Angel On Top
Episode 3.22: Tomorrow
Jenny: Hello, gentle listener! We have gathered here today for a very special family meeting.
Kristin: Jenny, what the hell are you doing here? You never show your face in this land!
Jenny: Let…me live, Kristin! [Morgan laughs] This is my domain. I lurk in the background, I toil—
LaToya: [simultaneously] Feud, feud, feud, feud!
Morgan: Feud, feud, feud!
NOTES: [Kristin laughs]
Jenny: How could you—Kristin. Before we started recording, Kristin said I’m not really in this space. But how could you possibly say that when I’m over here writing jingles for Cynthia?
NOTES: [laughter]
Morgan: Mmhmm.
Jenny: And The WB corner?
Kristin: Um, how dare—I would—I…excuse me, before another feud begins, I was just trying to say—
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: It’s so lovely that we’re all together. [laughs]
Morgan: It really is.
Kristin: Listen! The feud has been raging on. It’s gotten so intense recently that we’ve actually had to censor the poison just traversing [Jenny laughs] back and forth between the hosts. It’s been pretty rough.
LaToya: The toxicity of both Warren and Justine has done this to us.
NOTES: [Kristin laughs]
Morgan: It’s boiled over.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Wow!
Kristin: Oh my god, a match made in hell.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Name a more iconic duo.
Morgan: I’ll wait.
NOTES: [laughter]
Jenny: One way to end a feud or attempt to rebuild a bridge that has been broken is to extend an olive branch. I have whittled from nothing, plucked from the thin air. [Morgan laughs] Pulled from the ether—
Morgan: Mmhmm.
Jenny: A psonic olive branch. In the hopes that we could somehow find our way back to being a family again.
Kristin: You plucked it from the ether, Jenny, but…
Jenny: [laughs] But really, it was constructed out of the DNA of LaToya’s thoughts. And ordered into manifestation by both Morgan and Kristin independently. [laughter] Really, I just hit record.
Kristin: Okay. I—and we can explain it more later. But I can’t let LaToya or Morgan wait another solitary second. Or all of you. So here we go.
LaToya: I need to hear it.
Morgan: [simultaneously] I’m dying.
NOTES: [original song starts; to the tune of "Jolene"] Justine, Justine, Justine, Justine!
NOTES: [laughter] I’m begging of you, please don’t neck-stake Dan…iel Justine, Justine, Justine, Justine! Please don’t stake him just because he’s Dan…iel
NOTES: [laughter] Your chunky boots beyond compare With wallet chains, how do you dare? With throat-slicing and eyes of cold-like glee Your slaying leaves much to be desired Your bad girl style is mostly tired And I will never get your deal, Justine
NOTES: [laughter] He doesn’t talk much about you So there’s not much that I can do To explain your whole deal with him, Justine And I can’t easily understand What goes on with you and Dan But you can’t seem to explain it either, Justine Justine, Justine, Justine, Justine! I’m begging of you, please don’t neck-stake Dan…iel Justine, Justine, Justine, Justine! Please don’t stake him just because he’s Dan…iel You’re supposed to be good at this But your skills don’t seem to exist What did he even teach you then, Justine? I had to have this talk with you Now that Angel Season 3 is through And we hope to just be rid of you, Justine Justine, Justine, Justine, Justine! I’m begging of you, please don’t neck-stake Dan… [LaToya, imitating Justine] "Daniel!"
NOTES: [laughter] Justine, Justine, Justine, Justine! Please don’t stake him just because he’s Dan… [Morgan, imitating Justine] "Daniel!"
NOTES: [laughter] [clapping]
Kristin: Well. [laughter]
Morgan: It’s so pretty! [laughter] Which is a testament to—Jenny, how lovely and talented you are, and LaToya, how lovely and talented you are as a lyricist.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm, mmhmm.
Morgan: But to honor this character that we do not like! [laughter]
Kristin: [laughing] Oh, god…
Morgan: I fear it’s counterintuitive. [laughter]
Kristin: The train has just gotten completely off the tracks here. [laughter]
Morgan: You guys, that was lovely.
Kristin: Would you say that, like, perhaps…[laughs] the feud has been healed?
NOTES: [laughs]
LaToya: [laughs] Has been healed? [crosstalk]
Morgan: I would never say that.
NOTES: [laughter]
Kristin: Would you say the feud has been resolved?
Morgan: I mean, I’m gonna raise my children to hate your children. [laughter]
LaToya: Well. Since we’ll never find our way to peaceful coexistence, not even through our beloved character, Justine, we’re actually here to also tell you that we are going to be moving to our very own feed next season.
Morgan: It’s true. When Kristin and Jenny return with Season 7 of Buffering the Vampire Slayer, and we return with Season 4 of Angel on Top, you will find a brand new dedicated and comprehensive feed for your Angel rewatches, from now until forever. The new feed will have all of Season 1 and 2 episodes with Brittany Ashley and Laura Zak, the entirety of our third season of Angel On Top, and our new conversations as we move through Season 4 of Angel.
Kristin: In case anyone was worried about me, I will be packing up my corner here and moving it to the new feed, so if you’re lucky, I’ll invite you to my corner over there. And the biggest reason for the shift—[laughter] though it’s very fun to pretend that we simply feuded so hard that we cannot coexist in the same feed. [laughter] Please, please have that as your head canon. But the true reason is that we wanna make sure that people who are looking for an Angel podcast can find you both, LaToya and Morgan, which isn’t super easy to do ‘cause you’re right now under the little umbrella of Buffering. And also, so that people can watch Angel along with you in—you know. Like, go an episode at a time, just like they do with Buffy and with Buffering. So now, you will get that, humans.
LaToya: Yeah and also, non-humans, you will also get that.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Yes, demons as well, mmhmm.
LaToya: You damn [bleeped out].
NOTES: [laughter]
Kristin: Wow!
LaToya: But yeah, so for the next several months, Kristin and Jenny will also keep the third season of Angel On Top on the Buffering feed, don’t worry. [Kristin laughs] So new Buffering listeners can all have a chance to meet me and Morgan!
Morgan: Woo!
Kristin: Woo!
LaToya: Your best friends. [Kristin laughs]
Morgan: Hi!
Jenny: Yes.
LaToya: Also, just to give people time until our new Angel On Top feed launches.
Morgan: We will of course let you know exactly where to go and what to do at the start of November, when we return. But in the meantime, you can follow us over @AngelOnTopCast or [reluctantly] @BufferingCast, if you so choose.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Wow!
Morgan: For updates! And you can always—
Kristin: [laughs] [simultaneously] Wow!
Jenny: The—how—the tone of this! [laughter]
Morgan: And you can always head over to our website at bufferingthevampireslayer.com. [Kristin laughs] Or you can go to [quickly, quietly] angelontop.com and support our Patreon.
NOTES: [laughter]
Kristin: I guess we should go and listen to you talk about this episode.
Jenny: Yes!
Morgan: Yeah, it should be fun.
LaToya: Aw, yeah.
Kristin: LaToya, thank you for writing the most wonderful lyrics of all time. Jenny, thank you for singing them wonderfully, beautifully. And—I mean, I—reading the "Dan…iel" was funny. But like, hearing it play out in this—it’s just—it’s quality. Justine never knew she would get such an homage. Ever.
Jenny: [laughs] Honestly, it’s better than Justine has ever deserved. Honestly.
NOTES: [laughter]
Kristin: True. I’d like to put her in a metal box and send her to the bottom of the sea. [laughter]
NOTES: [CHIME]
LaToya: Welcome back to Angel On Top, a podcast where we watch and discuss every episode of Angel, one by one, spoiler free and in tandem those [bleeped out] over at Buffering the Vampire Slayer. I’m your co-host, LaToya Ferguson, AKA the Cordelia Chase of the Buffering verse, AKA Bones, AKA one half of the Gunn Squad—bang-bang!—AKA Theodore K. Mullins, AKA Gilly, AKA lover of long winded bits that I will greatly miss during hiatus.
Morgan: Same here. And I’m your co-host, Morgan Lutich, AKA the Winifred Burkle of the Buffering verse, AKA also Bones, AKA the other half of the Gunn Squad—pew-pew!—AKA Frank Scabopolis, AKA sorry, AKA also a lover of long winded bits. And goodbye to them for now.
LaToya: And this week, we’re watching Angel Season 3, Episode 22, Tomorrow. Tomorrow was written and directed by David Greenwalt. It aired on The WB on May 20th, 2002.
Morgan: And this is the one where things are really lining up for old Angel the vampire. His son’s moving in, Holtz is gone, and Cordelia might return his feelings. What could possibly go wrong? Just everything. [Angel On Top theme plays]
LaToya: Previously on Angel. Aww, Angel’s using vamp face to get baby Connor to stop crying. Cordelia says, "Angel’s feelings are the only ones I care about." Poor Groo. [Morgan groans] "I got dosed with demon DNA for that man." Poor Groo! [Morgan groans] And with that demon DNA, she starts glowing. She’s glowing all over the slucks. [Morgan laughs] Glowing all over the place. Wesley’s taking the baby away, for good! Psych! Neck-slice.
Morgan: Ouch.
LaToya: Holtz pushing Justine. "Daniel!"
Morgan: [simultaneously] "Daniel!"
LaToya: Never not funny, so happy we see it one more time.
Morgan: Needed it.
LaToya: "You’re looking into the Quortoth!" Connor returns from the Quortoth. "Hi, Dad." "You’re not alone." "I know." Angel confronts Sahjhan-Holtz! "You stole my son." "I kept your son alive." Gunn says, "Angel will deal with Holtz in his own way." Cut to Holtz making Justine poke him in the neck!
Morgan: Two times!
LaToya: Two times. Also, I have to note, of course, the Hulu description for this episode.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Because…I just…I love what it gives detail to and what it doesn’t give detail to.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: For this episode, "Connor plots revenge against Angel. He blames Angel for Holtz’s death and comes up with a plan to make his father pay. Cordelia realizes she has feelings for Angel."
Morgan: [laughs] Alright, interesting prioritizing of events, but okay. Not inaccurate.
LaToya: It could have just stopped at, like, "Connor plots revenge against Angel" and then the Cordelia thing. But the fact that it’s, "he blames Angel for Holtz’s death and comes up with a plan to make his father pay." Why is that necessary to put in this little plot synopsis for Hulu?
Morgan: It’s like, we know.
LaToya: We’re at the Hyperion. We are continuing where we left off, which means Cordy is still wearing that little black number.
Morgan: Hell yes she is.
LaToya: This has to have been a little bit after she confused Groo with Angel. So.
Morgan: Eugh!
LaToya: Eugh!
Morgan: Groo made her mock-na, which is a mud drink that relieves tension. That’s very sweet of him, but I understand how, um, she might not wanna drink mud. And that’s okay. [laughs]
LaToya: But he doesn’t find her mock mock-na joke funny, and you know what? It is funny.
Morgan: I do—I also—I do think it is good wordplay, yeah. I just think he’s, like—he’s very fragile and is not in a place to be in any way put down. [laughs] And I’m like, fair enough. It’s been a rough day for him. [laughs]
LaToya: It’s been rough days for them. Again, multiple episodes just bleeding together. The days—they never get a break. Cordy and Groo are lucky, they had a vacation, but look what they came back to.
Morgan: Yeah. Quite a bad situation. And in—things continue to deteriorate in that he offers her a neck rub, that she misinterprets as a sexual advance.
LaToya: Because what does he say he wants to rub, Morgan?
Morgan: Like, her…I cannot remember the word. What was it?
LaToya: Oh. It’s her "shlug-tee."
Morgan: Yeah. To be fair, like, I—how was she to know? But she’s like, I don’t wanna—
Kristin: I’m sorry, no, I’m interrupting this because you need to say it. You need to say what he says, which is, "I would like to rub your shlug-tee—"
Morgan: Shlug-tee.
Kristin: "Slow at first, and then faster." Bye. [laughter]
Morgan: That, to me, sounds like a nice massage. [laughs] Of her tense neck muscles. [both laugh] Ah, god. But yeah, she’s like, "I don’t wanna have sex here." And he’s like, "Sex? Cool!" I love that he says, "It’s always an honor to make sex to you." That’s the quote I wrote down. [both laugh] And I wrote, Groo’s gonna make someone out there so happy.
LaToya: I mean, I know it’s jumping—
Morgan: And I hope he finds them.
LaToya: I know it’s jumping ahead, but like, Groo should have left town with Lorne. Like, Lorne is his soulmate.
Morgan: Yes. Them, Vegas, together? I wanna see Groo in Vegas so badly. I just want the two of them to live hacks, in Vegas, together.
LaToya: [laughs] Yes.
Morgan: I think the…[laughs] I think it’s very good. I like it. That would be good to me. So once again, Cordelia becomes distracted by Angel.
LaToya: Oof. Ah, when she says "Angel" and he’s like, "Is not who I am, princess." Ohh! Ohh! ‘Cause again—[Morgan sighs] just moments ago, she thought he was Angel.
Morgan: Yeah. And it’s just like, I—and Cordelia’s in a lot of denial in this episode and I feel like she’s not looking at a lot of things that maybe could benefit from closer scrutiny. But it’s like, honey, how do you not see how this looks? Like, she’s very, very un-self aware in this episode, to a point where a couple times—even though we know, I love Cordelia and I’m forever a defender and have never said a bad word about her and will never say a bad word about her. But I was like, honey. Maybe…maybe be nice—maybe think about how our actions are affecting the people around us? Just a small bit, please? [LaToya laughs] ‘Cause I felt so bad for Groo, who she—you know—says she cares about—
LaToya: Oh!
Morgan: But she is really hurting him quite a bit.
LaToya: We’ll talk more about that later, because she [laughs] really just leaves—like a stray puppy, she leaves him. The puppy analogy comes back, I would say, because…oof. She is very insensitive.
Morgan: Yes. So Angel’s back. And he’s like, "Yeah, like, Holtz left Connor to me. He says he wants what’s best for him." Whoa. So, like, Cordelia’s so thrilled for him. ‘Cause of course, like, that’s huge that he is getting this kind of second chance with Connor, with Holtz’s blessing, rather than Angel killing Holtz.
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: And you know, things are really lining up for old Angel the vampire.
LaToya: Yeah. They hug and they’re beaming at each other. And of course, poor Groo’s in the middle and sad. And he’s saying, "Yes. It is a happy time."
Morgan: Cut to—
LaToya: As he drinks his mock-na.
Morgan: [laughs] Cut to Connor—Connor-Steven, cradling his father’s corpse. And being like, "Nooo!" [laughs]
LaToya: [simultaneously] Oh yeah, as—as my notes say, Steven-Connor sobbing over Holtz’s weird dead body.
Morgan: [laughs] It’s a weird—a weird-looking—might as well be a piece of bleached driftwood.
LaToya: [laughs] Jesus! [both laugh] We got Justine, Justine’ing from the jump.
Morgan: Justine is just lurking, watching this boy, like, weep over his dad, being like, "I’m a part of this!" [laughs]
LaToya: And again, I just yell, god, she’s so bad at this.
Morgan: She is terrible. She’s like, "Yeah, um. Yeah, this is, um—like, yeah, Angel did this. It’s so fucked up." [laughs]
LaToya: "Yeah, your father was gonna leave. He just wanted to talk to Angelus!"
Morgan: [fake crying] "Ooh-ooh-ooh!"
LaToya: [fake cries]
Morgan: Like, it’s the worst. And Connor-Steven is like, "This is my fault. And I’m gonna, like, make Angel pay."
LaToya: And I’m just like, lady. Do you have any feelings at all for this kid? Because now he feels—he’s blaming himself for this. Which of course is what Holtz wanted, ‘cause he’s a terrible father. But like, is this what you want to happen to this kid?
Morgan: I don’t think she ever cared about this kid. She only cared about Daniel. [both laugh] Like, it was just about their weird…connection. [laughs] I say, in italics.
LaToya: [simultaneously] Which gets dunked on later in this episode, so I’m ready for that. [laughs]
Morgan: Can’t fucking wait. But Steven-Connor says he doesn’t wanna kill Angel. He wants to do something else. Dun-dun-dun.
LaToya: Yeah, he’s like, "He’ll pay." And she—Justine says, "I’ll help you kill him." To which I, of course, ask, how? You’re bad at this, remember?
Morgan: [laughs] She’s just gonna—
LaToya: In what way can she help anyone kill Angel? She’s failed at this numerous times.
Morgan: Gonna choke Angel with her wallet chain. [both laugh] So then, our next scene. We’re in a room at the Hyperion. Angel is on—
LaToya: Which—
Morgan: Mmhmm?
LaToya: I was gonna say, which is great but my first note for this scene is: guest starring John Rubinstein, our boy is back, baby!
Morgan: Woo, woo, woo, woo! I did not notice, so when he showed up, it was a complete and utter surprise to me and I was thrilled. So Angel’s in this room in the Hyperion. It’s blue. And he’s, like, trying to find Steven-Connor a good room. This is, like, the fifth room he’s looked at and assessed, which is very cute. And then, he’s kind of talking to himself. He’s worried. He’s like, "I don’t have a TV. Like, I’m so out of touch. This kid’s gonna hate me." [laughs] [squeals]
LaToya: "And he’s gonna need a weekly allowance. What’s good nowadays? Fifty cents? A dollar?" Old Man Angel is back to close the season out.
Morgan: Like, and it’s also like, Angel. You buy stuff, don’t you? Like, does Angel not go to stores and buy things anymore? Is he that out of touch with money? He was just being a money monster. [both laugh] Sir. Think! So he says, "Oh man, this kid’s gonna hate me." And Cordelia’s like, "No. He’s gonna love you." And Angel says, "How do you know?" And Cordy says, "Because you’re you."
LaToya: And then I write in my notes, in all caps, now kiss!
Morgan: I write in my notes, in all caps, um, you are in love, question mark? Like. Again, the lack of self awareness here is staggering. [laughs] She then goes on to say that he has the biggest and best heart of anyone she’s ever known.
LaToya: And then I start tearing up, because holy shit.
Morgan: Fair enough. The love and mutual respect that is visible here. And it’s not like—I mean, I would say a lot of this stuff to my friends. But jeez. Like, I wouldn’t look at ‘em like that! I wouldn’t look at ‘em like that. Cordy—
LaToya: You never look at me like that, Morgan. Never.
Morgan: [laughs] I’m sorry. [LaToya laughs] Sometimes I look at you like that. [laughter] ‘Cause I love you. And you have the biggest and best heart of anyone I’ve ever known.
LaToya: Oh, I’m gonna cry again. [both laugh]
Morgan: So before LaToya can cry, I’m gonna say that Lorne comes in and is like, "Steven-Connor can have my room. I’m off to Vegas." Honestly, I don’t wanna see Lorne go, but he is being smart. He’s like, "Yeah, you guys have destroyed my bar, like, three fucking times. I’m not trying to build it here again." [both laugh]
LaToya: Yeah. I love that Cordy’s just like, "You can always just remake it." He’s like, "No. You guys keep destroying it."
Morgan: History tells us I cannot. [both laugh]
LaToya: Also, of course, watching it nowadays, I’m just like, do you think there was a chance they considered a Lorne spinoff in Vegas? ‘Cause again, Andy Hallett, at this—like, wasn’t a series regular. It’s like, you spin off this character that’s established, going to Vegas, helping people the way he has here. That’s a spinoff, baby.
Morgan: I would love that so much. And like, the case of the week, every week, like, starts with a song. So you could have, like, every musical theater actor ever coming in and singing in demon makeup.
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: Like, that’s a gift. In my opinion, let it—[crosstalk]
LaToya: [simultaneously] And you would—you would have Groo as the muscle, I would assume too.
Morgan: Oh, a hundred percent, yeah. He’s the sidekick. That would rule. And maybe you could, like—could you throw, like, Harmony over there—? I’m like, who else—like, you know, you could probably put a bunch of people over there. It could be fun.
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: Apparently, other contributing factors to Lorne leaving is that one, you know, his friend has a club where he can sing. And two, Steven-Connor is still being pretty mean to him. And he is, like, really hurt by the looks and stuff. And he’s like, "I love that kid. And, like, it just doesn’t feel right to be around him right now." And ow!
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: Oww!
LaToya: That is, like, the thing that really breaks my heart about Steven-Connor. It’s like, he was really raised to detest the things he loved as a baby. Whether it’s like, Angel’s vampire face or just Lorne in general. It’s just…that’s—Holtz took so much away from him.
Morgan: It’s a horrible thing to do. Like, going in—to take a child into a hell dimension is, um, in my opinion, bad. Don’t do it, I’m cancelling Holtz. But it…just, like, everything that he did to him was so awful. And that he could think that he was being righteous and put this kid through another unnecessary trauma, just so that he could, you know, achieve his ends. Like, that’s just despicable and I don’t understand how you can see yourself as, you know, the hero of this story when you do that kind of shit. Like, that’s just disgusting and I hate him and I hate Justine. And—
LaToya: Well, yeah, ‘cause—
Morgan: If I see them, it’s on sight. [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah, ‘cause I can’t even understand how Justine sees Holtz as a hero. I don’t even know if it’s, like, brainwashing at this point. I just—I don’t—again, I don’t get her deal.
Morgan: Both of them baffle me. [both laugh] And I will never understand.
LaToya: Well, speaking of Justine. [laughs]
Morgan: Good—
LaToya: She’s got a truck, baby.
Morgan: [sighs] Surprising no one, Justine has a truck. [LaToya snorts] She drives them out into, like, the middle of nowhere. A nice little nature-y area. Because it is time to bury Holtz. [laughs]
LaToya: But there are no white cliffs like in Dover, because remember, Holtz is British.
Morgan: [sarcastically] Mmm, I think I might have been able to detect that from his very specific accent. [laughs]
LaToya: [sarcastically] Of course, his Kent accent. As we all know.
Morgan: [laughs] I—like, so this is where, like, Connor starts to talk about Utah, where he was supposed to be. And he says it was gonna be him and me, where no one else could find us.
LaToya: It’s—
Morgan: And I write, and none for Gretchen Wieners, bye. [both laugh] Like, truly…
LaToya: It’s so funny, because he starts bringing up the ranch and Justine’s like, "Aww, he told you about that? That was our dream." She says that was our dream. Connor ignores her completely. [both laugh] "He always told me about it. Him and me, where no one could ever find us." And she’s like, oh. She gets one more "psych!" for the road. [Justine song starts playing] He doesn’t talk much about you So there’s not much that I can do To explain your whole deal with him, Justine
Morgan: From beyond the grave, Holtz continues to neg her. Unreal. I could not believe it. That is so embarrassing, to be—like, to be a regrettable mistake to an awful, like, emotionally stunted, evil man.
LaToya: And for her—
Morgan: I’m sorry, Justine.
LaToya: Yeah. And for her to continue down this path, when she clearly meant nothing to him.
Morgan: Nothing. Like, truly was just a tool to be used by him. Like, I’m sorry, but you can poke yourself in the neck twice. Bitch. [LaToya laughs] Like, you can! [laughs] Get that barbeque fork. Go to one Target, Holtz. [both laugh] And you coulda done it yourself. But no, you need Chunky Boots McGee over here. [sighs]
LaToya: Never mentioned her once.
Morgan: Like, how many stories does he have, you know? Like, she didn’t come up one time? [laughs]
LaToya: "As I was training my cult, where there was no Justine." [both laugh]
Morgan: Yeah, where there was no woman with leather jackets and a wallet chain. [both laugh]
LaToya: He brings up, like, what was her name? Audrey or whatever?
Morgan: Yeah!
LaToya: And he doesn’t bring up Justine. [both laugh]
Morgan: He’s like, oh, are you Audrey, the woman that I…[both laughing] "No." Like, honestly. How does Justine not walk away and be like, fuck this. Like, the amount of—she has no self esteem. And I know that that’s apparent from everything we’ve known about her, but I’m like, honey, open your eyes. Realize that this is not for you. Like…[laughs] but no.
LaToya: Realize…real lies.
Morgan: [gasps] [both laugh] It’s all connected. So, Connor-Steven is like, "We can’t bury Holtz again, because, you know, what if he was bitten by a vampire? What if he rises again?" Again, Justine is so bad at this. She hasn’t even considered, like, that she’s supposed to be preserving that lie.
LaToya: Yeah, you fool. You now gotta burn your lover or whatever. I’m glad you’re happy to see that.
Morgan: Yeah. Have fun. Connor promises to do what his dad said and cling to good and destroy evil. And then he chops off the head.
LaToya: I wanna know what Holtz taught him was good. What is this good to which Connor is clinging? ‘Cause…I don’t know.
Morgan: I think it’s the idea that, like, when he was like, "Go to Angel. See what of yourself is in him. Like, see what you share in common and you know, get rid of all of that shit. And instead, just be a good guy like me!" [both laugh] I believe that is a callback to that set of orders from…this awful, melting candle of a man. [both laugh]
LaToya: This finale is just us dunking on these characters one last time.
Morgan: [laughing] Yeah, one—it’s time to dunk one last time. Our next scene’s at a bar. My first note is, hot! So can you guess who’s in it, listeners?
Kristin: I can, I can, I can, I can, I can! I can guess. I can guess.
Morgan: Huh. I hear something coming from a corner. [laughs]
LaToya: Is that Justine?! [KRISTIN'S CORNER jingle plays] Kristin's Corner! Kristin's Corner! It's all Riley sucks and what the fuck And horny is hot Kristin's Corner is the place For very deep thoughts
Kristin: What the fuck?! [laughter]
Morgan: I hear heavy breathing. [laughter]
Kristin: Um. Listen. I’m—like, I am, to quote Morgan, unwell. [Morgan laughs] I am unwell—
Morgan: Mmhmm.
Kristin: With this scene. I, um…I don’t—I’m not—I mean, I’ll come back and say intelligent things if you have questions you really want me to dig into. But what I’d like to tell you is that I watched this episode of television at approximately noon, eastern standard time, on a Saturday. And I was like, well, there goes the rest of the damn day. [Morgan and LaToya laugh] They’re so hot! They’re so hot. I know they have to have conver—do I get to jump ahead, as a—
Morgan: Go for it.
Kristin: In my corner, do I get to go ahead? Because when he reaches across the fucking table and he grabs her by the neck. And the look on that woman’s—the look on her face! The look on her—that’s the look on my face. [LaToya laughs] That’s what the—that’s the—when you get to Fuck Watch? It’s Wesley. It’s Wesley, for me. [Morgan laughs] That’s who I pick. Are you kidding me? And then they fuck! Okay. That’s my corner. [laughter] [KRISTIN'S CORNER jingle plays] Kristin's Corner! Kristin's Corner!
Morgan: I mean, seconded. Seconded. I—to add a couple of things about the plot and what happens in this scene. Which I mean, I barely wanna do. She says something where she’s like, "Yeah, like, I care about you. I care that your great, big brain is going to waste." And I’m like, kill me. End my life, Lilah. She is kind of like, "You know, this Connor-Steven boy, isn’t he impossible? Isn’t he a portent of evil things to come?" Like, she’s really trying to do any and everything to get him on the hook. And she says, you know, "What if he’s—what if Steven-Connor is evil? Like, do we kill him? But like, that’s Angel’s son. But what if he hurts Fred?" And
then the choking happens. [LaToya laughs] I write in all caps: Wes chokes her and I miraculously do not faint. I knew that they were gonna be seen in bed together in this episode. So I was just like, oh, this is just, like, the setup and whatever. But I was—I did not know that he would grab her by the throat. And I…I almost passed out. Like, I was just…things have progressed. And she keeps, like, poking the bear, poking the bear, poking the bear. These are the consequences. [laughs]
LaToya: Just to, you know, talk about the narrative implications of this scene—
Morgan: Why would you wanna do that? [laughs]
LaToya: I’m just saying. When he chokes her, keep in mind, their interaction begins with her asking him, "How’s your throat? Want a lozenge?" And now, she is the one who needs a lozenge. I’m just saying, as you know, we’re in a feud with Kristin’s podcast, Buffering. Isn’t this scene, like, hotter than every weird long-skirt sex Spike and Buffy had? [both laugh]
Morgan: Ah, if only Lilah had been wearing a very long skirt. That she had to hike up. [both laugh] Nothing’s sexier than hiking up an ankle-length skirt. [laughs] That said. I do love Buffy. [both laugh]
LaToya: Yes, but we are in a feud and I’m just reminding them—
Morgan: [simultaneously] But we’re in a feud.
LaToya: That’s what they get over on Buffy Season 6, and this is what we get on Angel Season 3. So.
Morgan: Yeah, we have Gunn and Fred being the cutest in the entire world. And this.
LaToya: Jealous much?
Morgan: Yeah. So then, back in nature, Holtz’s body is burning. [both laugh]
LaToya: [laughing] Back in nature!
Morgan: The heat continues. [laughs]
LaToya: Justine and Connor watching, and that’s it, ‘cause you know, we care.
Morgan: Yeah, I’m like, fair—fine. So then, in the Hyperion lobby, Gunn and Fred get back. Angel and Cordy are there, and they’re in the hall. They’re doing a walk and talk.
LaToya: Well—I love how you’re going through this so quickly. ‘Cause we open with poor, sad, slouching Groo. [laughs] Is what we open with.
Morgan: So fucking depressing. I feel so bad.
LaToya: Yeah. They don’t even realize he’s there. First they think no one’s around, ‘cause—which is great, ‘cause remember, they lost Connor—
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: At the beach. This is the same night.
Morgan: [simultaneously] To be fair—yeah. They are focused on that and they’re like, aw man, what are we gonna do? And then, Angel and Cordy are just being parents. They’re just mom and dad’ing over in the corner. They’re like—Angel’s worried about how one day he’s gonna have to give Connor "the talk." And—
LaToya: So he’s gonna make Cordy give Connor "the talk." [laughs]
Morgan: Unreal. I write in my notes that this is, again, rude to do to Groo at this point.
LaToya: As we know, they saw, like, six rooms. Groo is just downstairs during that. He could have—they could have invited him to come with. They clearly did not.
Morgan: And he is, like, sitting like a child that’s been left at a furniture store for too long, you know? Like, he’s slumped all the way down. [laughs]
LaToya: His shlug-tee is not doing so hot.
Morgan: And I would like to offer to rub it, very slowly. [both laugh] And then later, very quickly. [both laugh] I’m getting a golf clap from Kristin.
LaToya: But this is also the scene where Angel reveals he did hear the shlug-tee conversation, after saying he didn’t hear anything. And oh god. When they walk—like, they’re not even noticing that everyone’s there when they walk downstairs. And she yanks him by—Angel by the ear and whispers in his ear to tell him what she’s gonna do to him next time he eavesdrops. It’s so domestic. Poor Groo. And then Angel teases her, saying, "Easy there, sailor. You use that kind of language at home?" And I wanna die. So does Groo, but in a different way than I wanna die.
Morgan: They are married. They are in love. They are parents. It’s…it is so wild how far along they are in something that neither of them will acknowledge exists. [both laugh] I just—I haven’t seen something like this. I’ve—this is—it’s baffling to me. It’s adorable. But I’m like, guys, please acknowledge…reality? [both laugh] But they will not.
LaToya: It’s like, parental discretion advised for seeing this. [both laugh]
Morgan: So then, like, Gunn and Fred are like, "Yeah, Connor left. And we went to the hotel to see if he went to go see Holtz, and no one was there." And they’re like, oh shit, like, he’s going to find that Holtz is gone without explanation. What is he gonna think? This is so bad. But then…he’s here. Hi, Connor. You gonna be normal? So Connor-Steven’s like, "My dad’s gone. [both laugh] What’s going on?"
LaToya: Uh-huh. And Angel’s like, "He left, Steven." Uh-huh, ‘cause that’s what Connor-Steven’s thinking. "Uh-huh."
Morgan: [simultaneously] Yeah, he’s like, "Yeah, he fucking left. This earth."
LaToya: And he gives him the letter, which is how we know Connor can read.
Morgan: I guess, yeah, good for—I guess there was time to teach him to read on Quor'toth, so that’s nice. And Steven-Connor, he plays his part. He’s like, "Cool letter. Very glad to be staying here now. No tricks, no prank element."
LaToya: Yeah, his fake smile. He says we’ll give it a try. [Morgan groans] And you know what? I can accept it here, but I gotta say, throughout this episode, y’all are buying into his BS way too easily.
Morgan: Like, and I know we believe things we want to hear, when they’re told to us, and that’s very much—but there are a couple points where I’m like, this is a huge red flag. And—
LaToya: Yeah, this is too fast. Too fast.
Morgan: Yeah. And again, I get it. Like, Angel wants to believe this and obviously, we’ve seen both him and Cordelia are very capable of the emotion of denial. But yeah, come on, guys. You gotta…he’s a whole person. Like, he’s not a kid. Like, he—
LaToya: Mmhmm. Fred should—I feel like Fred should be the one to call things out, especially since she’s lived that kind of life that Connor did.
Morgan: I very much was waiting for Fred to say something, and I was surprised that she didn’t. But I guess she was also just, like, relieved that she didn’t fuck up. I think, like, everybody is just like, it’d be really cool if this went well. And then—
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: It seems to go well so they’re like, phew.
LaToya: Yeah, I feel like Gunn and Fred’s guards are down in this episode because they’re finally like, it’s been fixed! Right?
Morgan: Right? Yeah. I’m also very surprised Gunn isn’t more, like, skeptical of—but I also think, like—I would have really liked to have seen Gunn’s perspective on this. ‘Cause obviously, like, he grew up in an environment with a lot of fighting and a lot of violence where he had to adapt to survive. And, like, I wonder how he would want to relate to Connor, were Connor here in good faith and they could talk.
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: Like, it does feel like Gunn would be able to sympathize and empathize with him. And that is something that we don’t get to touch on, which I mean, ultimately, like, Connor is lying and stuff. But I would have really liked to have seen Gunn’s perspective on that.
LaToya: Yeah. I guess we’ve—we have talked a lot about how on edge they’ve all been, especially since so many things are happening so quickly, as we’re saying. These are just very, very, very long days that they’re dealing with—
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And not getting to, like, relax. So I think they’re finally just—they think that they’re at a place where they can relax. Like Angel even says, you know, Holtz gave his blessing. They think, like—they think maybe they possibly really are out of the woods.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: So that’s why they’re not, like, looking a gift horse in the mouth, so to speak.
Morgan: And it’s also like, yeah, I’ll assume things are fine for tonight. Like, maybe I’ll look a little closer at this tomorrow. Yeah, again, the compacted time nature of it, I do think is something we have to consider, that even though it’s a lot of episodes for us, it’s like, a day for them. [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: So then, in Connor’s room, he’s rereading the letter. And he’s like, huh, this letter, huh? The letter that is signed—
LaToya: [laughing] I would love it if it was in a code only Connor could decode.
Morgan: I wish he popped out a decoder ring and was like, ha! It is signed "lovingly." Which I’m like, who signs a letter "lovingly"? Like, we get it, you’re nice, Holtz. Like, shut up.
LaToya: Shut up, bitch!
Morgan: I hate you. [both laugh] So Angel then comes in and he has brought a bookcase and a bunch of his favorite books from when he was Connor’s age. Woulda loved to hear those titles. [both laugh] Very upset that I couldn’t. And then Angel offers to take him—he’s like, "I can’t take you out right now ‘cause it’s like, daytime. But what about tonight? I’ll take you to the movies."
LaToya: Go see an action movie, it’ll be something special. Aww!
Morgan: So I looked up movies that were out this May. And here are the three action movies that were, like, top in the country that they could have gone to. Sam Raimi’s Spider-Man. Woulda been great.
LaToya: Yes.
Morgan: One of the best movies ever. Go see it, please.
LaToya: And also, Connor could relate to, like, Peter Parker parkouring all over the place.
Morgan: He woulda loved it. He would have been like, this Peter Parker boy. He has a dead father figure? I love him. Maybe it would have been very cathartic for him. Next up, Attack of the Clones. [both laugh] It’s good that they skipped that one.
LaToya: I mean, he’s a real Anakin Skywalker, I gotta say.
Morgan: Yeah, he would have been like, this Anakin boy has a lot of good ideas and I love his—
LaToya: [simultaneously] I agree with him on sand.
Morgan: I love his little braid. [both laughing] I wish I had one. And then—
LaToya: God. I’m sorry, but I can imagine Connor with a little braid and I don’t like it.
Morgan: Connor would love having a little braid. [both laugh] Just imagining, like, the Dothraki in Game of Thrones where it grows longer—it does not get cut until he loses a battle. So he’s like, "This little, tiny braid that goes all the way down to my butt is a…[both laughing] symbol of all my victories." And everyone’s like, this kid is so weird.
LaToya: God.
Morgan: And then the third action movie that was out was The Scorpion King. [both laugh] Which I also think was probably good that they didn’t see. But two movies that were also out at the time that I think would have been a better fit were, one, About a Boy, which would have been a nice—you know—
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: Kinda a father and son vibe. Like, that would have been good for them. And then, the movie that I think that Steven-Connor would have related to the
most. Spirit: Stallion of the Cimarron, which is a very good movie about a wild horse who, you know, has to learn to find his way and people try to domesticate him and that’s not what was supposed to happen. And I think—
LaToya: [simultaneously] Is that the one where—
Morgan: Spirit: Stallion of the Cimarron would have been great.
LaToya: Is that the one where Matt Damon’s the voice of the horse?
Morgan: I think so, yeah. And the horse has eyebrows. [both laugh] So yeah,
anyway, Connor, go see Spirit: Stallion of the Cimarron. But more than going to the movies, Steven-Connor is interested in Angel teaching him how to fight.
LaToya: He wants to learn, to be like you. Come on, keep your guard up. [laughs]
Morgan: Keep your guard up a little. Like, I mean, I know you’re so thrilled to have your son back. But like, maybe…maybe zoom out a little.
LaToya: Angel, you were born with father issues. Like, you should know.
Morgan: [laughs] So we cut to Hyperion lobby. We’re doing some training. I love that Angel’s training modules include protecting civilians.
LaToya: Yes.
Morgan: You know, the kind of—the kind of training an evil man would do. [both laugh] Come on, Connor, read between the lines.
LaToya: I wonder if Holtz ever included civilians in his training.
Morgan: I doubt it. "Ah, there’s a civilian that looks like a girl with a wallet chain I once knew. Shove her, Connor! [both laugh] Shove her to the side! [both laugh] And run!"
LaToya: "Daniel!"
Morgan: "Daniel!" [laughs] Oh my god.
LaToya: It’s never not funny. I’m sorry.
Morgan: It’s always funny. [laughs] So yeah, I love that Angel—so Angel, like, he has some notes. He’s like, "You gotta watch your balance and—" but, like, he’s doing pretty good. Like, you know, he’s holding his own, relatively, like—
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: Fighting a vampire, that’s pretty dang impressive.
LaToya: Yeah. And Angel says he’s got heart. And you know, Cordy is just watching this and loving it. And she loves it so much that she’s so excited to go to the movies with them. And then she’s bummed when she remembers she has to spend time with her boyfriend.
Morgan: Yeah, I was like, unfortunately she has to hang out with her hot boyfriend. [laughs]
LaToya: She was, like, so jazzed to go to the movies with them. And then it’s like, oh, wait. Nope. Gotta spend time with Groo.
Morgan: Look at your life and choices and realize that you don’t—like, that Groo has to break up with her is so painful. That he has to be like, "You don’t…love me?" Like, that is…ugh. That—that, I think, is very unkind of Cordelia. I’m like, that—this is a nice person. Like, you shoulda maybe seen how your actions were affecting them. But that said, I love her to death and I’ll do anything for her.
LaToya: Yeah, how do we think about—like, what do we think about the fact that, like, both Angel and Cordelia remain oblivious—I mean, Angel obviously knows he has feelings. But like, oblivious to how the other feels, and Cordy’s in deep denial. And the fact that they’re not kind of actively pursuing it. I think Angel not actively pursuing it is him being respectful and mature. Whereas Cordy, it seems…possibly out of character, or…?
Morgan: Yeah, that is the thing, is—I just—I wonder if it does seem out of character. Because I mean, we’ve never known Cordelia to not be someone who goes after what she wants. But I wonder if maybe she doesn’t want to want Angel. Like, she sees that it’s a very—
LaToya: [simultaneously] Yeah. We’ve talked about that before, yeah.
Morgan: Yeah, that it’s a very complicated future. And that, like, being with him would not be easy or simple. And it’s like, no, I want to be with Groo, this guy who worships the ground I walk on and, like, all this stuff. Like, that’s who I want to be with. But, you know—
LaToya: We’ve said before, like, she’s choosing the mission over her personal life. Whereas Angel, he’s choosing her happiness over his. Kristin, did you want to say something?
Morgan: Yeah. Kristin, come back.
Kristin: Well. I just poked my head—in case you’re wondering how it works here, I’m invisible and muted. And then sometimes I have feelings, and so I become visible. [Morgan laughs] So I just became visible and then disappeared again because basically, Morgan, you said what I was gonna say—is just like, as a person who really, really, really wants to be attracted to people who will only ever treat me well and take great care of me and do everything I’ve ever needed, I don’t have—like, I’ve realized at this phase of my life, that like, I just don’t have it in me. There needs to be something else. There needs to be something else except for just goodness. And so, I can understand Cordy, like, genuinely, genuinely not even being able to compute this. Because everything on paper with Groo is perfect. And like, you want to be—you wanna be able to like all of that love. But like, listen, some of us need—some of us need Wes to choke us at a table. You know? [laughs]
Morgan: I respect it. [laughter]
Kristin: What if the whole—what if, like, my mission this episode is any time I have something to say, I have to bring it back around? [laughter]
LaToya: ‘Cause that’s definitely not what the Cordelia/Angel relationship is like, but…[laugh]
Kristin: No, but Angel—
Morgan: [simultaneously] But I do agree that we cannot not—like, we can’t mention the choking enough. So yeah.
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah, good, good, good. No, and right. But like, Angel is a—like, Angel has a complicated history and relationship and way of communicating. Like, there’s—there’s a there there, and that isn’t as much there for Groo.
Morgan: And I do think we—like, this season has touched on the way that you can compartmentalize feelings that you don’t wanna deal with. Like, I think with Fred’s, like, "if I don’t see my parents, then everything that happened in Pylea will have not happened to me. Like, it will not have happened to their little girl, like, the person that I grew up being." And it’s Cordelia being like, "yeah, if I can—" And Gunn barely remembering or, like, being cognizant of the deal that he made for the car and his soul. Like, it’s the idea that, like, all of these people, by nature of being in survival mode a lot of the time, are maybe not dealing with certain things and certain realities. Because there isn’t, like, the time. And there’s always this bigger mission, and maybe it feels selfish to think about, you know, what you want or what you’d prefer. But…we gotta—we also gotta be nice, people. [laughter] Groo’s eyes are so big and blue. [laughter]
LaToya: Well, Kristin, before you go, actually. I don’t think we actually even know how you feel. How do you feel about Angel and Cordelia?
Kristin: Oh, I’m very into it. I’m very into them. I mean. [laughs] Like, I wish that we—I wish that, like, maybe this season, we had just gotten, like, a little more than, like—they really have us wanting so deeply. And I’m on that train. I mean, I—like, I agree. Every time that you’re both talking about them as, like, they’re mom and dad’ing together, and—I mean, they just—they have such a deep foundation. And they love each other so much. And I think that they’re also real sexy together. Like, they—I—I believe that they are fantastic partners for each other and I wish that one of them, you know, didn’t float up into the sky and the other one fall onto the beach. But you’ll get there. [laughter] But yeah, I ship it. I ship it, on record. Ship it.
LaToya: Yes.
Morgan: Yes!
Kristin: Way more than I—and here, everyone will come for me. Way fucking more than I ever shipped Buffy and Angel, I ship Cordelia and Angel. [laughs]
LaToya: [laughing] Morgan’s not okay.
Morgan: Wow. Wow.
Kristin: Fired—I’m fired. I’m firing myself. But that’s my true feeling.
Morgan: The feud rages on. [laughter]
Kristin: Somehow, the feud has gotten reversed. Now I’m on, like, the Angel side. [laughs]
LaToya: She’s like, "The feud rages on," as I agree with Kristin. [laughter]
Kristin: Yeah. Oh, no! The feud is switched. [laughter]
Morgan: When—look, as someone who was once 15 watching Buffy and Angel’s courtship. I will never be able—I’ll never be able to let it go. I never will. It was too formative for me. But maybe in some ways, I can acknowledge that [quietly] yeah, Angel and Cordy maybe make a little more sense.
Kristin: [simultaneously] It’s good that you’re here. Because I think there are probably a lot of people, like, slamming their hands on their car dashboards and things at me. [Morgan laughs] And like, being really—and so you gave a voice to the people over there, who were very upset with my stance. Mine and LaToya’s stance—
LaToya: Yeah.
Kristin: Our united front! [laughs]
LaToya: It’s like…for me, in terms of the shipping, the feud has never been Buffy and Angel or Buffy and Spike.
Morgan: Absolutely.
LaToya: It’s Buffy and Angel or Cordy and Angel.
Kristin: Mmmm.
Morgan: Mmhmm. I mean, yeah. There’s a lot of opinions out there, but yeah, I do wanna—for the Buffy/Angel people.
Kristin: But me and LaToya are correct. Okay! [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah. [Morgan makes strained sound]
Kristin: But also, I care about you deeply, Morgan—
LaToya: [simultaneously] Morgan is actually just afraid of…like, she’s gonna get blowback from all of this.
Kristin: No, no, no. We are, LaToya. [laughs]
LaToya: I don’t care. [laughs]
Kristin: Me neither. Well, thank you for asking me who I ship. Or, I don’t know, maybe it’s the end of my career, LaToya. But I appreciate being able to say where I stand on this divide. And it’s kinda nice that you both, you know, have differing opinions. We’ll have to get a—I’ll text Jenny. I’ll see if I can get a response from her on which side of the line she falls on. [laughs]
Morgan: Cool. [laughter] Anyways. Segueing right out of that very short segment that I’m sure didn’t get cut at all for time. Fred—they seem like they’re gonna go into another round of training. And they’re like, "Fred, you’re the vampire this time." And she’s like, "Ahhh!" which is so cute. And Angel’s like, "Um, you’re a vampire, you’re not in Cats." Which leads me to ask. Has Angel seen Cats?
LaToya: Angel has one hundred percent seen Cats. He ate the cast afterward ‘cause he hated it so much. Angel…hates James Corden. [laughs]
Morgan: The hatred Angel would have for James Corden. Like, I do—I do wish—I would like to see it.
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: But either way, Fred tailors her little vampire growl to a softer, little, tiny one? "Grr?" and it is incredibly cute and I would do anything for her. [laughs] Now, important thing. This is where I finish my first Angel notebook.
LaToya: Aww.
Morgan: And I go into…my second Angel notebook. [laughs]
LaToya: Ooh!
Morgan: Which has a Gunn sticker—
LaToya: Yeah, it does.
Morgan: [simultaneously] And a Cordy sticker on it. [laughs]
LaToya: Oh, yeah.
Morgan: So we cut to Cordy’s apartment. So, Groo’s looking sad and she asks him what’s wrong, and he’s like, "I’m wrong. I’m not the one you love. He is."
LaToya: Oh, boy. And she got him his favorite, too. Tuna and ice cream.
Morgan: And she asks him to please not mix them together this time, which…makes me ill. [both laugh] Even though I love Groo. Now, she’s like, "Who are you talking about?" So again, the level of denial, to not even know who he could possibly mean.
LaToya: Come on, Cordelia. Come on.
Morgan: Unreal. And she’s like, "Who are you talking about?" Cut to Angel. I see what we’re doing here. [LaToya laughs] So Lorne comes in and says goodbye. And he calls Angel "Angel hair," which is so cute.
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: I’m gonna cry forever, I miss Lorne. He presents him with a CD.
LaToya: Songs for the Love, Lorne. Oh, I get it.
Morgan: It’s so cute. I—he’s like, yeah, you know, like—like, he says it was his publicist’s idea. And I’m like—
LaToya: [laughing] Lorne has a publicist.
Morgan: Who is your publicist marketing you to? How? I have a lot of questions.
LaToya: What if it was like, Songs for the love…host? ‘Cause she didn’t know that it was Lorne? [both laugh] If you’re gonna be like these weirdos and call him the Host for so long.
Morgan: Again—which was honestly just rude. But Lorne has something very important to say. And that thing he has to say is…it’s mutual.
LaToya: Ooh.
Morgan: So we kind of cross-cut between Cordy and Groo, and Angel and Lorne, as two very patient, very kind, very gentle people explain to these dummies that they’re obsessed with each other. [both laugh]
LaToya: "I love Angel? What are you talking about?" Come on!
Morgan: Cordy says, "No, no. I love…us." Not even—she won’t even say she loves Groo. She says, "I love us."
LaToya: She says, "I love…you know, us."
Morgan: I’m like, honey, do you not hear that the words that are coming out of your mouth are mean? [both laugh] And again, this is where it’s like, yeah, she wants to love the healthy thing. But, like, instead she loves the complicated thing. And it’s okay. Lorne and Groo explain, you know, like, of course you guys are in love. You laugh at the same jokes. You finish each other’s sentences. You share each other’s pain and heartbreak. And Groo’s like, "I’ve known this for a while. I’ve just been…struggling to find the courage." And to think about that in terms of, like, his identity as a champion. The idea that, like, he has not seen himself as brave enough to do this also makes me very sad. That like, this has all made him feel, like, weak and cowardly. I’m like, aww, that’s not how I want him to have to feel. [AD BREAK]
Morgan: Lorne, however, is not delivering this news sadly. He’s just, like, giving really good advice, which is, "Why don’t you just stay open? Like, I’m not telling you you have to do anything about this. But like, you know, things are coming together for you. Your son’s back. Like, good stuff does happen, you know?"
LaToya: Apparently not, actually. [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah. It’s good advice in theory. [laughs] Then, Cordy’s like, "No. No, no, no, no. No, no, no, no." And Groo goes, "Okay. Tell me I’m wrong. That you love only me." She can’t do that.
LaToya: So off to Vegas he goes with Lorne.
Morgan: Bye! [laughs] Series wrap on the Groosalugg, you suckers! [both laugh]
LaToya: Grexit.
Morgan: [laughs] A bit of a Grexit.
LaToya: I’m sorry.
Morgan: I love you. [both laugh] So then, we go to the drive-in, where they’re watching, like, a war movie with a bunch of aerial fighting. And I was like, this is
bullshit. This isn’t Spider-Man, this isn’t Spirit: Stallion of the Cimarron. What the hell?
LaToya: I really wish they were watching an animated horse movie.
Morgan: Me too! Fred is chomping down on popcorn. She’s having a great time.
LaToya: She is…devouring that popcorn.
Morgan: Well, you get free refills, so she is actually just being very savvy, financially.
LaToya: I do love that when they get home, she still has more popcorn that she’s munching on. [laughs]
Morgan: You gotta get it to go. I respect. I will—I’ll carry around a bag of popcorn until I’m done.
LaToya: Yeah. Of all the fakeness that Connor’s doing, he seems to actually be into the movie.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Although he is a little jumpy, ‘cause you know, it’s like, the train coming at you.
Morgan: [laughs] Yeah. Connor doesn’t realize his favorite movie’s the one where the train comes right at you. But yeah, it’s—you wonder if it’s a little bit triggering for him, with all the explosions and stuff like that. And then, above the screen, a real helicopter appears. And Steven-Connor’s like, "How’d they do that?" [both laugh]
LaToya: Which, understandable.
Morgan: Which is so cute. He doesn’t know how the movies work. [laughs]
LaToya: And I’m just noticing, this episode—this is where the budget went, and it was not in that CGI crap. That was, like, five dollars.
Morgan: Uh, yes. It all went here. So guys, like, repel down from the helicopters. There’s a big fight. We then cut to inside a van. And who’s there?
LaToya: Well—
Morgan: Mmhmm?
LaToya: My note is, haha, Linwood’s such a little bitch. [both laugh]
Morgan: My first note is about Linwood calling Angel a chowder-head.
LaToya: [laughing] He says it—him and Gavin, the little bitch dream team. He’s like, "Tie me up, threaten me with sharp objects, but don’t let me go, chowder-head."
Morgan: [laughs] I’m like, wow, really taught him. I love it. They’re really excited about Steven-Connor. Linwood wants to dissect him and see how he works.
LaToya: [simultaneously] He’s still on that, actually—yeah.
Morgan: Yikes. [laughs] So then, in the fight, Steven-Connor is really, like, protecting Angel. And for a second, you’re like, oh, okay. Is this…like, you know, obviously there was closeness between them at the awful rave. So like, is this instinctual? Has he been kind of warming up to his dad by being around him? It’s this moment where you maybe aren’t quite sure where his loyalties lie. Fred helps Gunn in the fight, which I really liked. And [laughs] he thanks her, which is so cute. And then, the chopper flies away, because you know, they can’t get Connor. And they’re—you know, they’re fighting too good. And then Angel sees that van nearby and is like, hmmm. [laughs] So he runs over, rips the doors off, and you know, shoves Linwood.
LaToya: [laughs] Linwood’s like, "Drive! Drive!" and does not drive in time.
Morgan: No, he does not. Steven-Connor then is again, like, very protective of Angel in front of Linwood. And Linwood, like, offers help. Steven-Connor threatens him by saying… [Clip from episode plays] [grunting sound]
Connor: Stay away from my father. [punching sound and a grunt]
Morgan: So—
LaToya: Yeah. Here’s the—"Stay away from my father and my name is Connor." Like, come on, guys. It’s too soon.
Morgan: It’s too soon. For me, this is the big tipping point. It’s the obvious lie. There’s no way he would renounce his old identity this quickly. Like, probably not ever, to be honest. But like, definitely not this quickly. Like, this is where everybody, I feel like, should have maybe…especially, I’m so surprised Gunn doesn’t say anything too. Because he is kind of, like, the skeptic of the group, in general. Like, I’m very surprised that he isn't saying something. But again, you know, maybe you say something tomorrow. [laughs] And it would have been fine, you know, had everything not been happening so quickly.
LaToya: [simultaneously] Right. That would have been too late, so.
Morgan: So our scene ends with that. Cordy—we’re at Cordy’s place. And she’s looking at a picture of her, Angel and Wesley. Ow. And she’s, like, trying to figure out how she feels. And she’s like, "I don’t know. What? This can’t be true." [laughs] Cordy. Honey. I wanna say, I love Cordelia so much. She cannot believe it until she hears the words from her own mouth. [both laugh]
LaToya: [laughing] The only person that can really tell her that she’s in love with Angel is herself.
Morgan: I love one beautiful narcissist. [both laugh] And it’s Cordelia Chase. I love it.
LaToya: It’s like, oh, it makes perfect sense now. Yeah.
Morgan: Oh, she’s right. Yeah, she’s got a way with words. [laughs] I love that for her so much. Then in the Hyperion lobby, Angel’s jazzed from the fight, from his son taking back his old name. He thinks everything is good.
LaToya: He’s whistling.
Morgan: Oh.
LaToya: I’ve never heard him whistle before.
Morgan: Oh, buddy. And then, Cordelia calls and wants to talk and in light of what Lorne’s telling him, he’s like, oh, shit, shit. Like, this could be it. They agree to meet at Point Dume.
LaToya: In Malibu! Y’all are on the east side. They’re in my neck of the woods. This would have taken them—they’re supposed to meet in an hour. This would have taken them just over an hour to get to.
Morgan: Yeah, like, maybe it’s two in the morning so it would take an hour.
LaToya: But we see the traffic that Cordy ends up in. So.
Morgan: Ridiculous. And also, like, if he’s downtown and she’s in Los Feliz, like, that would take her—oh no, she’s in Silver Lake, right?
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: That would take her longer than him. So yeah, like—
LaToya: Also, isn’t he in Los Feliz? ‘Cause remember, it’s like—he’s near the observatory.
Morgan: Ah.
LaToya: We know that from Are You Now or Have You Ever Been.
Morgan: Oh, okay. I thought that he was downtown. I maybe made that up.
LaToya: Downtown is his original place.
Morgan: Oh, there we go. That’s how that happened. But yeah. Unreal. Our sense of LA geography continues to be a reality-breaker for the show. [laughs]
LaToya: They should have met at the observatory, but then you can’t put him in the ocean.
Morgan: Yeah, hard to put him in the ocean. So then, Connor’s like, "Cordelia’s nice. I approve." [laughs]
LaToya: Again, he’s using his super hearing that he has—
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: That no one should be surprised about.
Morgan: And then, he—
LaToya: Gunn.
Morgan: Yeah. [both laugh] Shoulda known. He then calls Angel "Dad," and I write
in my notes: red. Flag!
LaToya: Stop being all happy, everyone, and notice something is wrong. Not with Angel that he’s humming—although it’s hilarious that Fred has to double check that he’s not perfectly happy. [both laugh]
Morgan: So cute. She goes over and she pokes him with a stake and is like, "You’re not too happy, are you?" He’s like, "No! Leave me alone!" [both laugh] Adorable, so cute. We then cut to another scene. In a bedroom. To cut from poking…to post-poking. [laughs]
LaToya: A lot of poking going on in these episodes.
Morgan: So Wes and Lilah fucked. [both laugh]
LaToya: And he gave her several orgasms.
Morgan: Yeah, I also wrote that down. I think it’s canonically important to get that
out there. Good god. I write: Wes experiences post-nut clarity slash depression. [both laugh] And is like, get out.
LaToya: [simultaneously] Cancel this podcast. [both laugh]
Morgan: So sorry. To all our young listeners. Yeah, he’s not—he’s like, "Cool. Leave. Leave, I’m not interested in you continuing to be here." Lilah gives him shit. And Wes glares at her, so she says… [Clip from episode plays]
Lilah: Watch the dirty looks. That’s what got me going in the first place.
LaToya: [laughs] Then we get to see Stephanie Romanov’s back and it’s a good back.
Kristin: Ahhhhhhhhhhhh!
LaToya: Oh, Kristin.
Kristin: [yell fades out] That’s all, I just—
Morgan: [simultaneously] Hey, Kristin?
Kristin: I just heard the sound clip. You know what I mean? I was like, I hope we get to talk about when she says "that’s what got me going in the first place." [laughter] Also. I’m disappearing. I’m going away, but I just wanna say that the fact that she not only is like, "You gave me many orgasms," but says it by being, like—by playing on little deaths? Come on! [sighs] Me and Lilah Morgan for-evuh. Drawing it on my binder while you finish talking about the episode. [laughs]
Morgan: Good. I—I mean, you’re gonna have to fight me. But yes. Lilah—Lilah 5-ever. They kind of have this continued little interaction where she’s like, "Yeah, we had hate sex, which is so much better than love. I don’t like that." [laughs] [LaToya snorts] And he’s like, "Cool, are you still here?" [laughs] And she goes, "Okay, don’t make any more of this than, like, you know, it is. It’s like—don’t go thinking about me when I’m gone." And he says, "I wasn’t thinking about you when you were here."
LaToya: Damn!
Morgan: That is cold! [laughs]
LaToya: And you know what, that line actually gets to her.
Morgan: Yeah, she’s like, "Okay, well, fuck!" [both laugh] And she’s basically like, "Okay, cool. You’re losing your soul and your boss doesn’t even have one. Like, fuck you." [laughs]
LaToya: No, she says his boss does have—or ex-boss does have one—
Morgan: Oh, yeah.
LaToya: But you’re losing yours.
Morgan: Sorry, yeah, your ex-boss has a soul and you’re losing yours. And I was just like, dang, she is pissed about that. And they leave, but…I feel like they’re gonna fuck again. Just seems like…it didn’t seem like they ended things. It didn’t seem like it was a "never again" scenario. Just wanted to say.
LaToya: I mean. You know who’s, like, always popping up and there’s never a "never again"? Justine! So. [both laugh] Their relationship’s the Justine of relationships. [laughs]
Morgan: How dare you say that about this hot thing that’s happening? [laughs]
LaToya: What, you don’t find Justine…hot? No thank you!
Morgan: No thank you! So then over at Point Dune [sic], Angel’s here. He’s checking his breath.
LaToya: Well—it’s Point Doom. Get it?
Morgan: Ooh! Oh, it is?
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: [simultaneously] I thought it was Point Dune. Oh my gosh, I’m—I’m a little moron. So at Point Dume, Angel’s here. He’s checking his breath. Off in Cordelia’s yellow jeep?
LaToya: [laughing] Right? I’m like, Cordy’s stuck in traffic, and has a yellow jeep apparently.
Morgan: I was shocked. Do we believe that Cordelia Chase has a yellow jeep?
LaToya: Maybe if she lived on the west side.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: But she does not, as we know.
Morgan: Yeah. I’m like, you do not have a yellow jeep. Again, I continue to be confused by Cordelia’s LA brand. [both laugh] But she’s like, shit, I’m late. She’s checking her breath. She’s saying to herself that this isn’t a date. And again, I’m like, this rom-com heroine-ism is absolutely killing me. At the beach, Angel’s checking his hair. He drops his cell phone off a cliff. [laughs]
LaToya: [simultaneously] ‘Cause he tries…’cause this is what he gets for trying to use his cell phone to call Cordelia and see what’s up, and he drops it.
Morgan: So funny.
LaToya: This is why she called the hotel and not his cell phone earlier.
Morgan: Very smart. Cordelia’s talking to herself and she says… [Clip from episode plays]
Cordelia: We’re just gonna talk, like two grown-up adults. I may have some feelings. He may have some feelings. He may not even know I’m insane until he hears my feelings. [groans]
Morgan: I love her! But before, you know, she can get further in her, you know, frantic drive to her romantic lead, she starts glowing and everything around her
freezes. I write in my notes: Cordelia Chase, dot-dot-dot, a clock stopper?
LaToya: Fucking…[laughs]
Morgan: Very funny. Angel thinks he’s stood up. And he’s like, alright, I guess I’ll go. But then Connor’s there. [laughs] And he says, "Hey. I just, like—we’re family. And I wanna show you how I feel about that." And then he tackles him. [LaToya
laughs] And I write: he is his father’s son. He knows how to lead right into an act-out. [both laugh] They have a beach fight.
LaToya: They have a beach fight. And he’s using Angel’s teaching against him.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Angel, Angel, Angel.
Morgan: Got his balance now, bitch. Then, over on the frozen freeway, Cordelia’s not alone. Skip’s there! [laughs]
LaToya: Again. The budget. The frozen freeway. [both laugh]
Morgan: I love—I was so happy to see Skip. I was happy to see him, I was thrilled. He explains that, like, he’s here because the power that Cordelia was given was very big. And it didn’t corrupt her.
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: LaToya, what does that make her?
LaToya: It makes her very special.
Morgan: Cordy’s a higher being.
LaToya: When Steve Winwood was singing Higher Love, he was singing about Cordelia Chase.
Morgan: That, we all knew to be true already. So. [laughs] Yeah.
LaToya: But yeah. The Powers were testing her and she passed the test. And now she’s a higher being, which means she’s not allowed to smooch.
Morgan: Yeah, which means she’s gotta go somewhere. Meanwhile, at the beach fight, Angel’s trying to realize—reason with Connor. But Connor tases him. [laughs]
LaToya: Wait, before—actually, before we get to the scene. Now that Skip’s here, that means—you know what time it is.
Morgan: I do know what time it is.
LaToya: [whispers] Fuck Watch.
Morgan: Hit it, bitch! [laughs] [FUCK WATCH jingle plays] Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing Fuck Watch!
LaToya: Morgan. There’s a lot of love, a lot of sadness in this episode. So who’re you fucking? ‘Cause I mean, we’ve been through a lot of people, this season of television.
Morgan: Look, I found myself at the bar late at night. And I don’t wanna go home alone. And who is left to me at this point, but Skip? [both laugh] So you know, I believe you gotta love the one you’re with. And I am with Skip, by default, ‘cause there is no one left. And I will—I was so worried until Skip showed up—the whole time, I was like, shit. Shit. Who is gonna be my Fuck Watch? Who is gonna be my Fuck Watch? Who is gonna be my Fuck Watch? And when Skip showed up, I felt such relief. I was like, it doesn’t have to be Justine. [both laugh] It doesn’t have to be Connor. It can be Skip!
LaToya: I love how worried you were.
Morgan: I was very worried. [laughs] What about you, LaToya? Who you fucking?
LaToya: Well, like I said, I had to double check to see who I’d been fucking this season. And so, to end this season, I’m fucking Fred!
Morgan: Woo!
LaToya: I have not yet—she is looking good.
Morgan: Her hair looks so good. It’s so cute.
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: She’s looking good this episode. Beautiful choice.
LaToya: We are going to the drive-in. We’re gonna eat some popcorn. We’re gonna fight some helicopter dudes.
Morgan: Hell yeah, take her to see Spirit: Stallion of the Cimarron. [both laugh]
LaToya: I’m not taking anyone to see that, Morgan.
Morgan: Alright, your loss. [laughs]
LaToya: Get off my back.
Morgan: Alright, fair enough. [both laugh] I love it. I love that for you. I guess that’s Fuck Watch. Good for us.
LaToya: We did it!
Morgan: Healthy choices.
LaToya: We ended the season. [FUCK WATCH jingle plays] Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing Fuck Watch!
Morgan: So Connor—at the beach fight. Connor tases his dad. And then he does a little flashlight signal, out into the open ocean. And it turns out there’s a boat. It turns out on that boat…is Justine.
LaToya: Justine. Can captain boats.
Morgan: Of course she can. Of course she has a truck. Of course she can captain a boat. And of course, as we will learn, she can weld. [Justine song starts playing] Your slaying leaves much to be desired Your bad girl style is mostly tired And I will never get your deal, Justine
Morgan: Kristin, do you have anything you wanna say?
LaToya: [simultaneously] Kristin’s just nodding in agreement, ‘cause she really loves Justine, as we all know.
Morgan: Yeah.
Kristin: I just…like, I just…I—when this happened. He flashed the light, and I didn’t remember. I really didn’t remember. And I was like, it can’t be. It cannot be! And then, like, the way she crests over the wave—like, the boat comes over and the spotlight hits her and she’s like, this is my destiny! I was—it’s so—
LaToya: [singing] "You didn’t ask for this." [Kristin laughs]
Morgan: [singing] "Nobody ever does." [laughter]
Kristin: So. I mean, like, A plus for comedy. I screamed at the TV. I don’t do that often and I screamed. [laughter] Just, nooo! [laughs]
Morgan: Horrifying stuff.
LaToya: I mean, obviously getting ahead of ourselves. But like, she lives to fight another day. She survives this season.
Morgan: I can’t—
Kristin: It turns out that—
LaToya: On top!
Kristin: Welding was her top skill. That’s the one she needed most.
Morgan: Yeah. I…I can’t believe she didn’t die. I can’t believe she didn’t trip off this boat and drown [LaToya laughs] under the weight of her chunky boots. [Kristin laughs] Might as well be made of cement. Take her right to the bottom of the ocean.
Kristin: Do you think she welded her own wallet chain?
Morgan: A hundred percent. [laughter] Forged that chain herself. Each link. [laughter]
LaToya: We are going to bring a Justine [inaudible] out of hiding, just to like, hate on us so much.
Morgan: [laughing] I know. Back on the frozen freeway. Now—now that she’s, you know, maybe on the verge of being taken away from him, Cordelia’s finally able to admit what she did in her vision. We see her, she says, "I’m in love. With Angel." I guess better late than never.
LaToya: Is it?
Morgan: Not really. She doesn’t wanna—
LaToya: [simultaneously] ‘Cause he doesn’t know.
Morgan: Yeah, he doesn’t. And she doesn’t wanna leave without telling him. But it turns out, this is her last test from the Powers.
LaToya: The Powers are little bitches.
Morgan: The Powers are obsessed with self-sacrifice. And like…is self—like…self-sacrifice isn’t, like, that noble. Sometimes it’s just martyr-y. Like, [laughs] let her have a kiss!
LaToya: If Angel is their champion and so is Cordelia, why can’t their champions smooch?
Morgan: Yeah. That would be great. That would be good to me. Champions united in love and goals? That’s good to me. [sighs angrily]
LaToya: The Powers that Bitch.
Morgan: Yeah, more like! Then on the boat, Angel’s in a big metal container. Connor’s like, "You murdered my father." And Angel’s like, "No?" [both laugh] And Justine goes, "He’s lying."
LaToya: [simultaneously] "He’s lying." [both laugh]
Morgan: And Connor then says, "You’re the prince of lies," to Angel. [both laugh] That’s silly.
LaToya: Yeah—
Morgan: That’s just silly.
LaToya: Angel’s like, "No?" And obviously, they can’t check the body now to show that it was clearly not a vampire who bite into it, but whatever.
Morgan: Ugh, gosh. So, like, Connor says to him that killing is too good for Angel. He’s going to live forever.
LaToya: And then Vampire Diaries went on to rip this off. ‘Cause you know—
Morgan: Hundred percent. [laughs] Back on the frozen freeway, Cordy sees the rest—Cordy experiences the rest of her vision. And it turns out, like, the thing she was saying about being scared but it being right was about her calling. Not about her love for Angel, which selective vision editing. Yeah.
LaToya: Hmm.
Morgan: Not cool.
LaToya: Yeah, not cool at all.
Morgan: But she seems to have accepted it, but she does want whatever is next. She wants to accept this mission to be a higher being. And she starts glowing. And she starts floatin’. Wild. [laughs]
LaToya: Pretty wild. And then over on the boat…[Morgan laughs] Angel’s trying to tell Connor, as they’re slowly, you know, welding him shut, that someday he’ll learn the truth and he’ll hate himself. But don’t, it’s not your fault. And he doesn’t blame him, ‘cause again, it’s Justine’s fault ‘cause she’s a terrible, terrible person.
Morgan: Yeah, and it’s Holtz’s fault too. Like—
LaToya: Also a terrible person, yeah. But dead.
Morgan: Yeah, he’s like, "I love you. Like, I love you, you’re my son. Don’t—it’s okay." But it’s still just not enough.
LaToya: Yeah. I really do just have the note: man, fuck Justine. [laughs]
Morgan: I really do have the note, in all caps: of course Justine welds. And then me drawing a face that’s rolling its eyes. [both laugh]
LaToya: But yeah, the box gets fully assembled and they dump it into the ocean. Which again, that’s why it was so important last episode for Connor to learn about the vastness of the ocean. ‘Cause—
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: This is how he uses that knowledge.
Morgan: Fred, you shouldn’t have said shit about the ocean to him! [both laugh] Should have taken him to a Chuck E. Cheese. [both laugh] Should have taken him to a Dave and Buster’s.
LaToya: [simultaneously] That’s how you see that the world’s not ugly, take him to Chuck E. Cheese. [both laugh]
Morgan: Take him bowling. [laughs] And things are not looking good for our heroes. In the Hyperion lobby, Gunn and Fred are like, where’s Connor? [laughs] And they’re like, huh, maybe we should call Cordelia or Angel. And Gunn’s like, "I did. They’re not picking up their phones. Weird." And Fred says, "Where did everybody go?" and we do a big wide shot of the Hyperion and it’s just—just little Fred and Gunn, in the big hotel.
LaToya: With the lobby chair over the pentagram. [both laugh]
Morgan: Very well hidden. [both laugh]
LaToya: They couldn’t have gotten a rug? Wasn’t that Cordelia’s idea? They should have gotten a rug.
Morgan: They need a big—I bet she was like, I’m gonna pick out the rug, and then she wasn’t ‘cause she was, you know, busy dealing with her romantic stuff. But—
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: Maybe while they’re—everyone’s gone, Gunn and Fred will get a rug.
LaToya: But yeah, it ends with Cordelia still ascending, as Angel literally descends.
Morgan: And it’s sad.
LaToya: And that is the end of Angel Season 3.
Morgan: Wow.
LaToya: How did you feel about that season of television, Morgan?
Morgan: Um. I thought it was really good in places, and the Holtz and Justine of it all is a little tough. I think the structure is very interesting. Like, everybody’s—like, I—Gunn and Fred, like, really don’t have anything to do, in the last couple episodes. And Wes’s thing is largely done as well, pretty early. So it leaves pretty much just Angel and Cordelia and the Holtz and Connor thing. And since—I don’t know if I’ve made it clear—Holtz, Justine, not my favorite.
LaToya: Really?
Morgan: Connor—perhaps a bit of a mixed bag. I think it’s a little soft on the ending. I think the beginning and, like, the middle are probably the strongest, for me. But it’s still really, really good. There is so much good stuff in here. I was just, like, really thrilled to be along on this ride. LaToya, where does this rank for you, in terms of the seasons of Angel?
LaToya: I—for the longest time, Season 2’s always been my favorite, especially because of the Darla of it all. But I think Season 3 is very strong. I think they’re up there for my top two seasons.
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: Kinda like Season 2 and 3 of Buffy, honestly.
Morgan: Yeah. It was great. I was so happy to watch it with you and to, like, get thoughtful about it, and to have this time to reassess. Like, it’s been really awesome.
LaToya: How did Michael Chasin feel about these last few episodes?
Morgan: He—like, pretty much the same. Like, interested in the Connor stuff and we’re kind of like, alright. Like, we get how people probably wouldn’t have liked it, like, how it would—there would have been the, you know, negative Dawn comparisons—
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: And such. But that ultimately, there is a lot that’s interesting going on here.
LaToya: How does he feel about Justine?
Morgan: Ha! Same way that we do. [both laugh] "Daniel!" Well, given that—how often I’ll just be like, "Daniel!" out of nowhere, and he’ll be like, "Jesus, Morgan." [both laugh]
LaToya: He doesn’t find it as funny as we do?
Morgan: No, he does not! [both laugh]
LaToya: Kristin, you find that as funny as we do, right?
Kristin: Uh, yeah, I die. I die. Like, I will be—I will be calling that—when you least expect it, you know? [laughter] Like, you’ll be in Season 5 and I’ll be like, "Daniel!" [laughter] Because I hear it in my sleep. It’s just like—it’s just so much. It’s so much. Actually, in an episode—a recent episode of Buffy, Willow stops the bus and then she just knocks Buffy and Xander over for no apparent reason whatsoever. And in my head, I heard, "Daniel!" [laughter] So. So yeah, I’m in.
LaToya: Did you—have you recorded that and have you said that in the recording? ‘Cause you should.
Kristin: I recorded it but I only said it in my mind. I think it’s already up. I think the episode’s already up, and like, just so you—
LaToya: [simultaneously] Oh, damn.
Kristin: So the listener knows that—what is happening in my brain when I talk about that moment is "Daniel!" [laughter]
Morgan: I find myself remembering it out of the blue, like, in completely unrelated situations and just starting to laugh. And just saying to myself, "Daniel!" And like, I’ll be like, "Michael, I’m thinking about that thing." And he’ll be like, "Of course you are." [laughter] And I’m like, "It’s just so funny. He really didn’t have to push her." And he goes, "I know, Morgan. [laughter] He really didn’t have to." God.
LaToya: Wait, Kristin, do you wanna give your two cents on Angel Season 3? As you have been part of this journey.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Yeah! Well, first of all, what a fucking delight, to get to listen to you both. I feel very honored, because I get to listen in real time. So I get, like, a backstage pass to this conversation, but you just—it’s just a delight to watch it along with you. And I really like this season. I think that, like, something that’s happened to me as I’ve done more podcasting about television is that I’ve learned how to separate, like, story from performance or—you know, like, that I can compartmentalize certain things. So like you, Morgan, I also am not—obviously not into the Justine of it all. As—like, that kind of is a blanket, like, I just—I don’t—
Morgan: Mmhmm.
Kristin: I don’t know why she was necessary for the most part. Whereas Holtz, like, you know, I don’t love the way that it was executed. But I think story-wise, it’s really great. And I love this season. I mean, this is—you all know how I feel about Cordelia. And like, this is just a really incredible Cordelia season, a really incredible Cordy/Angel season. And then—I mean, I already loved Gunn and Fred. I already loved them before, like, you know, doing this watch. But this time around, I think I fell for them harder than I have ever fallen for them.
LaToya: Aww.
Kristin: And, um…I mean, we also get Wes choking Lilah. So—you know what I mean? It—what’s to complain about? Lilah was—this might—is this Lilah’s best season? I don’t know, ‘cause I don’t remember what happens in any of the other seasons, but. [LaToya laughs] This is a great Lilah season. This Lilah season was good to me.
Morgan: Some very good Lilah stuff. Lilah is—
Kristin: [simultaneously] Yeah. Remember when she played computer golf?! [laughter]
LaToya: Remember when she had the little spider?
Kristin: Ahh!
Morgan: The email spider! [laughter]
Kristin: Fucking clickity-clacking with his little furry feet. Oh, god. It was a good season of TV.
Morgan: I loved him so much. [laughter] Yeah.
LaToya: So Kristin, would you say that you enjoyed the season of Angel more than you’ve enjoyed the season of Buffy? And would you say it on the record?
Morgan: Yeah.
Kristin: Um. Let me think about this. Yeah, so. [pause] Yeah, I think as a season of television—I think as a season of television, I enjoyed Angel Season 3 more than Buffy Season 6. I will say, though, that there are certain things that I enjoy about Buffy—like, we’re in the Dark Willow of it all right now.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And that shit is good. That is, like, a delicious treat. Fucking Rupert Giles just blew open the goddamn door to the Magic Box without his glasses on. It was so sexy. So there’s, like, some really, really great, great shit. But I think, like, in terms of the big story arcs and the…[inhales] I don’t feel prepared! [laughs]
LaToya: Oh yeah, we planned to put you on the spot. So.
Morgan: Oh, yeah, that was the plan.
Kristin: Yeah.
Morgan: Hey, LaToya, so all I’m hearing is that we won? We won the feud?
LaToya: [chanting] We won the feud! We won the feud!
Morgan: [joins in chant] We won the feud! [Kristin laughs]
Morgan and LaToya: We won the feud!
Kristin: I’ll—
Morgan: You heard it here first, folks! [laughter]
Kristin: I think it wins. I think it wins. I’m gonna sleep on it. I’ll come back to it, but I think it might win as a season of television.
LaToya: And when she sleeps on it, she’s just dreaming of, "Daniel!" [Kristin laughs]
Morgan: "Daniel!" I was like, I mean, she’s dreaming of Wes choking Lilah.
Kristin: Yeah. Uh, yeah. A thousand percent, thousand percent.
LaToya: But what she hears is, "Daniel!"
Morgan: "Daniel!"
Kristin: [laughs] Oh, no! That’s a horrible mashup. Do not take this sexy thing away from me, LaToya. Goddamnit. [laughter] [sighs] Wow. Ooh, is it time to do plugs? Am I just gonna hang out?
Morgan: [simultaneously] Yeah, baby. Yeah, oh my gosh, hang out—
Kristin: How fun!
Morgan: And on that note—
LaToya: Well, I guess—I got WB episodes, but honestly, for that— [Kristin laughs]
Morgan: Oh my gosh! Yes.
LaToya: No. No, honestly, for that, it literally is just like, Angel, go back and watch every episode I suggested. Because things have turned out horribly for you. You’re at the bottom of the ocean. [laughter]
Morgan: You’ve got some time.
LaToya: You did something wrong with my advice.
Kristin: Oh no, he can’t watch anything down there, LaToya. [laughs]
LaToya: He can remember them. As he’s drowning. [laughter]
Morgan: He can watch them in his mind palace. [laughs]
Kristin: You’re like, I gave you the life raft of WB television episodes. And you refused it.
Morgan: Mr. Police, I gave you all the clues.
LaToya: [simultaneously] He clearly didn’t listen and that’s what went horribly, horribly wrong. [laughter]
Morgan: So true. Ugh, yeah. So you sit and you think about your WB. And you think about what you’ve done. And you watch your frog. [laughs]
LaToya: [chanting] Watch your frog! Watch your frog!
Morgan: Watch your frog!
Kristin: When you hear the jingle—when you hear the jingle, just imagine that LaToya is saying, you should have watched The WB. [laughter] [DUBBA-DUBBA-WB jingle plays] Angel is a vampire Does he even like TV? "I think he'll like The WB." They got that hot teen drama To ease the pain and trauma And here's the episode that he Needs to see (aw yeah!)
Morgan: Ah. God. And on that note, if you care to find us on social media, you can do so @AngelOnTopCast on both Twitter and Instagram. We’re having a lot of fun over there. We’re doing very goofy, silly posts and I think that you’ll enjoy it. If you would like to support us, you can do so at angelontop.com. That’ll lead you to our Patreon, which will be a place where you can get ad-free episodes and other fun little content. And if you would like to send us an email about how much you love Justine…about how much you want us to put in the merch store a Justine wallet chain. [LaToya laughs] You can email us at angelontoppodcast@gmail.com. And if you’re looking to find me on social media, you can do so @LorganMutich. LaToya, can the people find you on social media, and should they?
LaToya: Nope. [Morgan laughs] They can just—maybe in Season 4, they can. But they’re gonna be waiting a long time.
Morgan: Gonna be waiting in that metal box at the bottom of the ocean, not being able to follow LaToya on Twitter. [both laugh] And on that note. Thank you so much for listening to us. Thank you guys so much for having me. I can’t believe that we did this and that I’m here. It’s so much fun.
LaToya: Yeah, thank you for listening. Just not following me, obviously. [Morgan laughs] Morgan, thank you for joining me as I was very anxious and overwhelmed and you made things much, much easier for me, as a human being. Who, as you know, I get super anxious about things and then I get in my head and then I just wanna be ill. [laughs]
Morgan: Well, look, I’m happy to be here and be, like, so silly and goofy that you couldn’t possibly be worried you’re doing a bad job. Because I’m doing a bad job. [laughs] And that’s what I’m here for. And I love you, buddy. Thank you guys for having me. And thank you, Kristin, for joining us and for having us in your corner every once in a while, and then telling us to get the fuck out of your corner. [laughs]
Kristin: [laughing] You’re welcome. You are—
LaToya: And thank you for helping us win the feud. Easily, because—
Kristin: That’s why you really fucking called me here. [Morgan laughs] You just called me here to prove that you won.
LaToya: It was obvious what your answer would be, after this whole season.
Kristin: Yeah.
LaToya: I mean—
Kristin: Yeah.
LaToya: This is the season of Sahjhan.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
Kristin: [laughs] My boyfriend. My one and only. [laughter]
Morgan: The season in which you desperately sought him. [laughter]
Kristin: No, thank you both so much. I cannot—I cannot wait to watch Season 4 with your voices guiding me. I really can’t. You both rule, so. Yeah.
Morgan: Aw. Well, on that really gooey and sweet note, see ya later, nerds!
LaToya: [singing] "Justine, Justine, Justine, Justine!"
Morgan: [joining in] "Justine, Justine!" [laughs] [Justine song starts to play] I’m begging of you, please don’t neck-stake Dan… [LaToya, imitating Justine] "Daniel!" Justine, Justine, Justine, Justine! Please don’t stake him just because he’s Dan… [Morgan, imitating Justine] "Daniel!"