Angel On Top
Episode 3.07: Offspring
Jenny: Hello!
Kristin: Oh, hi Jenny! That's weird. I think we're at the wrong podcast stop. But—
Jenny: We do not belong here.
Kristin: Uh, we don't. This is not our podcast, but we're actually here up at the front, all four of us. We're here, Jenny, myself, Morgan and LaToya, with a brief message. As I'm sure most of you who are listening to this podcast already know, there's a super big and very important conversation happening surrounding the toxic environment created by Joss Whedon on the sets of Buffy and Angel, and other places. This is far from the first time that we have had and heard conversations about Joss's actions, most recently and notably from Ray Fisher on the set of Justice League.
Jenny: First and foremost, we wanna say that we stand with Ray Fisher, Charisma Carpenter, Michelle Trachtenberg, Amber Benson, and everyone else who is speaking their truth. We know that while much of this sadly doesn't come as a surprise to those in the Buffy, Angel and Marvel verses, the specifics and details shared by Charisma are new, and the chorus of voices has gotten larger. We want you to know that we will continue to be here to do our best in processing this all together, something that we have been doing since nearly the start of this podcast.
Kristin: Yes, we're very thankful—again, a thing that you likely know—to have this community to keep having these conversations. And we very much believe that these universes are created by a lot more than one person.
Morgan: Also, it's important to let you know that this episode of Angel on Top was recorded before Charisma's statement came out. So LaToya and I might have discussed this episode slightly differently, given that it's about Darla and her pregnancy and Cordelia's support of her, in solidarity, given her own experiences both as a woman and as a, you know, person that's been pregnant before through supernatural means. And we just want you to know that we're listening and we care and that Joss's behavior is unacceptable.
LaToya: And just one final note. [singing] Fuck Joss Whedon!
Morgan: [singing] Oooh!
LaToya: Yeah-yeah-ee!
NOTES: [CHIME]
LaToya: Welcome back to Angel on Top, a podcast where we watch and discuss every episode of Angel, one by one, spoiler-free and in tandem with Buffering the Vampire Slayer. I'm your co-host, LaToya Ferguson, AKA the Cordelia Chase of the Buffering verse, AKA Bones, AKA one half of the Gunn Squad, AKA Theodore K. Mullins.
Morgan: And I am your other co-host, Morgan Lutich, AKA the Winifred Burkle of the Buffering universe, AKA also Bones, AKA the other half of the Gunn Squad, AKA Frank Scabopolis. Welcome to the show! [laughs]
LaToya: And this week, we're watching Angel Season 3, Episode 7, Offspring. Offspring was written by David Greenwalt and directed by Turi Meyer. It aired on The WB on November 5, 2001. This is the one where, after a few episodes of Darla tags, Angel's baby mama finally arrives in town.
NOTES: [Angel on Top theme plays]
LaToya: Hey Morgan, did you like the episode?
Morgan: I did! Yeah, this is a good one.
LaToya: It is a good one, and—'cause I know that you are technically—so you're obviously along with Season 3 to host this.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: But also, you are catching up and you're in Season 2 right now. And I was like, does this episode kinda make you wanna just, like, go ahead? 'Cause I know I kinda wanna just go, like, full steam ahead with the rest of the season after this episode.
Morgan: Yes. It was hard to be like, okay, I can't keep watching. But also keeping the two continuities together in my mind, like, helps. Because I am also so hooked on where I am in Season 2 of Angel right now. Like, where I am in my, you know, current rewatch of the full series, Darla has just been turned into a vampire by Drusilla. So I'm, you know, screaming. I'm climbing up the walls. I'm going absolutely mad. [both laugh] Along with my viewing partner, Michael Chasin. So it's, um—that's the thing that's keeping me—and also recording this show with you.
LaToya: You're basically catching up to the reason why Angel's in this predicament. And you said that—before the recording—that you had no memory of the character Holtz from your initial watching of the series.
Morgan: I—I, like, have the vaguest—I'm like, oh right, there's a dude and he's from the past—like, I believe I forgot that he comes back in present day. I—yeah. Not a lot of memories there. No thoughts, head empty. [laughs]
LaToya: Just for anyone who wants to be a nerd, we first saw Holtz in a flashback in the Season 3 premiere, Heartthrob. He—you know, he was chasing after Angelus and Darla. And then James and Elizabeth were also in tow at that time. James is the reason why they caught again, basically, while the girls were away. And we also know from The Trial, which is an episode you recently just watched in Season 2—
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: That Angel and—I'm sorry, Angelus and Darla were running away from Holtz. And then Darla—that's where she abandons him.
Morgan: Yes.
LaToya: So that's—yeah, that's what we know. He—they killed his family and all that fun stuff.
Morgan: Yeah. Whoops! [laughs]
LaToya: A little whoopsie. And he's chased them all around the world. He—what—they went to Africa!
Morgan: This guy took it real personal. You slaughter his family and he just, like, will not let it go. [laughs]
LaToya: Everyone in the vamp crew, in Angelus fashion, they do something dumb and it all comes back to blow back on Angel. Because Darla decides that they should let Holtz live because it's fun to torture him. And because of that, [laughs] this man can come to the future!
Morgan: Honestly, so messy and iconic of her, though. Like, I love it. [laughing] I love Darla. What a… what a hot bitch. [LaToya laughs] I—I can't—I don't know how else to say it. I—she's just—she's hot and she's a bitch. And I mean that in a positive way and I mean that in a negative way, and I mean that every way you can think of. I'm just—I'm—I'm in awe of her. [laughs]
LaToya: She is one to be in awe of.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: A couple more notes before we get into the episode, really. Something I always note. As you know, I am an expert on The WB's image campaigns.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Just to show you how awesome Julie Benz is, and we all—I think we all agree here.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: She was, like—this—so this, obviously, aired 2001. She was part of, like, The WB image campaign for 2001, despite not being a series regular.
Morgan: Oh, wow, cool.
LaToya: Yeah. I wanted to show you that before, but I can just show you that after we're done recording, because yeah, she's just there.
Morgan: Rules.
LaToya: She's there with David and Cordy—I'm sorry, and Charisma, I mean. [Morgan laughs] And Tom Welling and Kristin Kreuk.
Morgan: Ooh!
LaToya: Joshua Jackson. Eden's Crush.
Morgan: 2001 WB, pretty good stuff. Pretty good stuff. [laughs]
LaToya: And then just the last bit of business before we get into the episode. This episode is titled Offspring. I was thinking, should I sing some songs by The Offspring in this episode? I will not, but I will, um… based on the Offspring songs I know, I will adjust lyrics slash titles to make it applicable to this episode of television. So please bear with, as I say, And all the girlies say, Angel's pretty fly for a dead white guy. [Morgan laughs] Cordy, are you doing okay? You're gonna go far, Angel and Darla's kid. [Morgan laughs] Gotta keep 'em separated, um, is Fred and Wesley. [Morgan laughs] And come out and play, Gunn. Or Gunn out and play. [Morgan laughs] Okay, I'm done.
Morgan: Congratulations on all of those.
LaToya: Previously on Angel. The host reads their souls. You see Angel rudely kicking Darla out after sex. [Morgan laughs] It's very rude.
Morgan: Rude.
LaToya: You have a shaman telling Darla that this baby is not meant to be known. And then she's like, "Time to go visit Daddy." [Morgan giggles] And is where I again say that unfortunately, the P's—the Previouslys—are not on Hulu. We need to reclaim Previously and opening credits culture. This is offensive.
Morgan: So—like, honestly, such an important part of all this shit. Like, even if there was, like, a "skip the Previouslys" button, like there is, like, on Netflix. Like, that—I would love to have the option. And I definitely need it for, like, every Bravo show when they go back into the mythology, 'cause I have no idea what's happening. Everyone's faces blend. [both laugh]
LaToya: Also, all of their faces have been changed over the years.
Morgan: Yeah, I need to remember what kind of face shape someone had when an event took place, as opposed to what face shape it is now. [laughs]
LaToya: Exactly. Rome, 1771.
Morgan: Dun-dun-dun!
LaToya: We're in a sewer in the past and it still looks cool. [both laugh] Angel stays having the coolest sewer sets and I love 'em.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Fred was right, they are all cozy. Let's move to the sewers. [laughs]
Morgan: This sewer had a lot of, like, water and rats and cobwebs. It looked less cozy. And I was like, hmm. I was like, what kind of iteration of Angel are we dealing with here? 'Cause he looks way less comfortable in this sewer than I know my boy to be. [laughs]
LaToya: We've still got some time before he is, you know, hanging around with the rats, his best friends. [Morgan laughs] Which I noticed, because when I was like, doing all the chronology, basically, that that's one of the cool things and reasons you do an Angel spinoff. Because basically, when Drusilla and Spike came into the picture for Darla and Angel, they had already had, like, a hundred years under their belt. So like, the show—this show is accounting for, like, those hundred years, basically, with its flashbacks. 'Cause all you really see in Buffy is Darla turning Angel, and then we fast-forward to them being with Drusilla and then with Spike, you know?
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: Yeah, no, it's nice to get, like, all of that cleared up and to have a sense of, like, what it all looked like. I would love to see a linear timeline of everything, which I'm sure exists.
LaToya: It does.
Morgan: Thanks to nerds.
LaToya: It's a long one, 'cause it also, like, includes comic canon too.
Morgan: Oh, shit! [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: Well, that's gonna be a lot of stuff then. [both laugh]
LaToya: And yeah, because usually when you see a frantic flashback Angel like this, you think he is ensouled. But nope, this is Angelus looking not so cool, baby.
Morgan: Not so fly, for a dead white guy. [both laugh]
LaToya: But yeah, dudes are chasing him with torches and crossbows, so they know what he is.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Enter Holtz with his cool 1771 sunglasses.
Morgan: [laughs] "Cool" being a relative term here.
LaToya: I mean, they're cool for 1771. [laughs]
Morgan: Hell yeah.
LaToya: They were on, like, the cusp! This was brand new technology. [laughs]
Morgan: You're right, you're right. I shouldn't judge.
LaToya: We're getting some revenge, because you know, killed his family. So.
Morgan: He—this guy has no chill. Like, he cannot hang. And I—I've yet to find anything that, like, exciting or redeeming about him to latch onto. How do you feel about this character? Because I—so far, I've found him, like, a little like, generic guy who doesn't like Angel. Like, of course, you know, killing a family is wrong, but.
LaToya: I—[laughs] Jesus, Morgan. No sympathy from Morgan Lutich.
Morgan: [laughs] Look, it's—it happened. No, it's not that I don't have sympathy. It's just, I'm looking for something, like, specific or interesting about him. 'Cause you know, Angel killed a lot of people's families, I'm sure. But this guy just has the—you know, the unbeatable spirit and desire to keep seeking vengeance. But I've been waiting for something about him to kind of stick for me.
LaToya: I will just say, well, it seems like he'll be around, so maybe we'll get more information about why he's—you know, he's not just getting over the death of his family.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: But yeah, so… Angelus, who, you know, we saw running away. He was trying—he's back to cracking jokes, talking about Holtz's wife being a hearty screamer.
Morgan: Ugh!
LaToya: You know what? I think, possibly—has his accent gotten better? It's still not good, but has it gotten better?
Morgan: I think maybe a smidge better. Yeah. And I think also he's, like, downplaying it a little more. Like, he's throwing it away a little more and it's gotten a little better. Which is a good… good combination.
LaToya: Got torture o'clock happening.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: 'Cause it seems—he wants to know where Darla is, basically. And well, here she is! [Morgan laughs] To save the day. She brought some fodder. She brought some vampire fodder to save the day.
NOTES: [Clip from episode plays] [sounds of fighting]
Darla: Sorry it took me so long, darling. Kill them.
NOTES: [vampire snarls]
Morgan: Yes, I love her girl gang. And I love their flaming arrows. That rules. I wish I could roll in that, like, dope girl gang. [both laugh] Except for the whole not having a soul thing and killing people, which I am against. But the aesthetic, I do love. [laughs]
LaToya: Well, once you're in the girl gang, you wouldn't care about not having a soul and killing people, so there you go.
Morgan: Fair enough. [laughs]
LaToya: But yeah, there is one thing that I noted when Holtz is doing the torture. He says, "Angelus, you're a demon. It is your nature to maim and kill. But you were also once a man. If we beat and burn the demon out of your living flesh, will there be anything left? Anything at all? I doubt it, but I'm willing to spend the next fortnight of my life finding out. In either event, you have no soul. You cannot be saved." I wrote in my notes, basically, put all of that in your Shanshu prophecies, because that is a lot of, you know, what we talk about with Angel in general. You know, now he has a soul.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And his whole question is, can I be saved? Am I a righteous man? [Morgan laughs] You know, the Amends speech.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And I would say he's a righteous man. What do you think?
Morgan: I would say he is trying very hard to be a righteous man, which makes him one. Like, I believe, like Buffy, that like, trying is hard and it is every day. And it is the idea that, like, as long as he's putting forth the effort and cares and is willing to question himself and willing to look deep within and try to always do right, that he is doing a good job. And I—like, I think—I'm pro Angel. I think he's a good guy. Uh, ten out of ten.
LaToya: Your first "Morgan is pro Angel" on this podcast. [both laugh] And you know, Holtz asking if we beat and burn the demon out of your living flesh, will there be anything left? Well, unfortunately for you, Holtz—like, the Romani—like, they found out in 1898. It's like, they—you know, they beat the demon out of him and they gave him his soul. And he basically was—they were trying to make him sink. He—and you know, he was living in the sewers, eating those rats, his favorite pastime.
Morgan: Yum, yum! It worked for a while. Like, for quite a long time, he was a defeated husk of a person. [laughs]
LaToya: I was just gonna say husk. But yeah, like I said, Darla rubs it in. They basically fuck in the back of a carriage and leave Holtz alive. Which, shouldn't have left him alive, girl.
Morgan: Dumb, but very hot of them. [laughs] Like many things they do, dumb but hot.
LaToya: Dumb but hot.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Then LA, present day. Darla has taken a bus. She chomped on a couple of people on the bus, which is apparently a Code 12.
Morgan: Mm. Yeah. A bunch of—when someone eats a whole bus, that's a Code 12, I guess. [laughs]
LaToya: We have our codes for everything in LA. [both laugh]
Morgan: But very spooky stuff. And she makes—doesn't she make some joke about, like, LA transportation? Which I would just like to say, LA public transportation is not as bad as it gets a rap for. I would give anything to be on an LA subway right now and for it to be safe. [laughs] But then, we cut to our theme, right?
LaToya: We do. I'm not singing. Cordy is putting fake flowers in the basement to brighten it up. And it's really cute and sweet, and Angel says, "I've never known anyone like you," and I write "aww" in all caps in my notes.
Morgan: Yeah. Jeez, he is making hard eyes—heart eyes at her, here. Like, yeah, he is all about Cordy. And it is very cute.
LaToya: And here, he's teaching her how to not pull her punches and kicks. And she gives him a big ol' punch.
Morgan: Oh my god. This was so cute, I did not know how to handle it. And when he is like, "You can't hurt me, I'm a vampire," and then he looks away and is like, ow! And is like, straightening his jaw out, I was like, that is my girl. That is my boy. I was very into it, and it’s nice to see them in such a light, like, really romantic and bubbly scene. But if you know what show you're watching, you know that means something awful's about to happen. [laughs]
LaToya: So much sweetness up top. Cordy says that Angel's off his game because apparently there's a prophecy that Wesley and Gunn are trying to get right now, that might suggest that the end is near. And you know, Angel's like, "There's always some ancient scroll," which is true.
Morgan: Mmhmm. Yeah.
LaToya: Yeah, he's seen three in his very long life. Cordy guessed four.
Morgan: I love that joke, by the way. I enjoyed the—all the prophecy translations in this episode. I like the nerd shit. [laughs]
LaToya: So many, but it's fru—it gets frustrating and it will continue to be frustrating, so. [laughs]
Morgan: I just—I like the commitment to the, like, academic nature of everything and the idea that, like, Wesley really does have to do, like, a lot of hard translating work. I appreciate that the show is all in on that and is not gonna shortcut it. I enjoy that. [laughs]
LaToya: The Nyazian scroll is what they're looking for. Also, Angel is possibly swelling.
Morgan: [laughs] So then we go with Gunn and Wes to their little heist, correct?
NOTES: [both laugh]
LaToya: Yes. Their little B&E. Wes has his B&E kit.
Morgan: I love one idiot. He's so… like, you know, we see Wes. He seems like he's back to essentially being his old self after the events of Billy. Like, they are very fine playing the character for comedy again.
LaToya: Well, it's—at first, it seems like he is back to his old self. But he's not back to his old self, unfortunately.
Morgan: Oh, yeah. He ends up, like, showing some side effects, especially like, around Fred. But like, he is fumbling and bumbling and Gunn always—
LaToya: He has, like, a glass cutter he's setting up with Gunn walks in. [laughs]
Morgan: The suction cup—like, when he can't get the suction cup off the window and that's kind of like the button of the scene—so good. What a—like, a Pink Panther-ass goofy boy. [LaToya laughs] And I—and I love him. [laughs]
LaToya: Oh, Wes, he's such a goof. But yeah, they're looking for the scroll, they're going through this mystical vault, which has a bunch of stuff. And then, here comes a dude with a large revolver.
Morgan: Uh-oh!
LaToya: Hate when that happens.
Morgan: Always happening to me when I'm doing my cool heists.
LaToya: But yeah, Wesley's like, "You can't call the cops 'cause we'll tell them about all the GHB!" Which he doesn't have, but apparently there's a mystical thing that is very similar to GHB. And for some reason, Wesley knows that?
Morgan: That, I was just like, wow, you are really up on your shit. Like, I was—I was very impressed by how quickly he was able to work on his feet there. But yeah, I guess that works and the guy is freaked out. And then Gunn does a little bit of juggling. [laughs]
LaToya: It's hot. I'm just gonna say it.
Morgan: It is, because it's done with such confidence. And I am just so proud of Gunn and he does—not only does he juggle, but he appears to drop one and then does a hacky-sack trick like he's Freddie Prinze Jr. in She's All That, and he can't let it slip.
LaToya: Never let it drop.
Morgan: Amazing. [giggles] I, uh, lost my mind and he lets one shatter to intimidate this guy. And they end up letting—they end up getting to take the scroll, which cool. Good for them.
LaToya: Yeah, he's like, "We're not thieves, we're investigators. We just wanna borrow it." They'll probably end up destroying it, 'cause that's usually what happens. They're not good at taking care of things.
Morgan: No. But I think it's for the greater good that they have it still. [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah, he doesn't—this dude doesn't need it. He, like—he's clearly just a collector of things. He doesn't need this.
Morgan: Yeah. He's got enough of his weird GHB and tiny glass magic balls. [both laugh]
LaToya: [laughing] You know, what every warlock needs. [both laugh] Fred walks in on Angel and Cordy training, which—they do a little bit where it seems like there's sexy bending happening.
Morgan: Oh my god. Very Down with Love of them, to do this wordplay. But it's—and Fred being like "hmm." She's so cute, I can't—I can't handle her. And this is when Cordy also reveals that, even though she has kind of like, you know, punched Angel in the face and made him feel awful, she also is, like, so sore and in pain from all of the training, and I adore her. Good for you, girl. [laughs]
LaToya: Hard work, baby. Fred says the word "kyrumption."
Morgan: Which is the, like—one of the only Pylean words she remembers that's nice.
NOTES: [Clip from episode plays]
Wesley: What's it mean?
Fred: It's when two great heroes meet in a field of battle, and recognize their mutual fate.
LaToya: And when she sees Angel and Cordy sparring, that's what comes to mind. And she calls Cordy "a hero with the visions and the courage." And it's really sweet!
Morgan: It's so lovely to see Cordelia through Fred's eyes. Like, I mean, just by nature of, like, having more than one woman on your show. [laughs] Like, I mean, you know, there are other women on Angel, but they haven't been on Team Angel. So the idea that, like, there's another girl around who can just, like, appreciate how wonderful Cordelia is and how strong and resilient she is. And you know, find herself—like, find her own strength in a completely different avenue. Like, I mean, that's why you should always have more than one woman, more than one person of color, more than one queer character, all of these things. So that you can have people admire their strengths and, like, weaknesses and differences and stuff like that. 'Cause it's so—it feels so much more, like, lived-in and wonderful to see Fred in awe of Cordelia, than it does, I think, for the boys sometimes.
LaToya: Sorry, boys.
Morgan: Get outta here, boys. Just kidding.
LaToya: But it's also different with the boys too, just 'cause they've, like, known her longer. So it's like, a different kind of—like, basically Fred's only seen her as a hero kind of fully formed. Whereas with them, they're like, seeing her—they've seen her grow over the years, you know.
Morgan: Absolutely, yeah. They—they have this perspective on, you know, where she started. Whereas for Fred, she's only been, like, the vision girl who's, like, you know, completely self assured. And that rules, 'cause I like people seeing Cordy as just exciting as she is, so. [happily] Ugh!
LaToya: But yeah.
Morgan: My girls!
LaToya: She says because of this, it's only natural that Angel and Cordy would be drawn to each other. And then Angel starts being weird. [both laugh] And Fred gets distracted by plastic flowers, which are her favorite.
Morgan: Ahh! Fred!
LaToya: Because they never fade!
Morgan: That's so, like, "I love math because it's the same in every country." Like, Fred, can you ever tell us a happy thing without it immediately becoming sad?
NOTES: [both laugh]
LaToya: And then, yeah, Angel's like, "Nothing between us." And she's like, "Nothing but Moira!"
Morgan: Mm!
LaToya: Who's Moira? And I just wanna say, "bay-bay."
Morgan: [imitating Moira Rose] "Where is bay-bay's chamber?"
LaToya: [laughs] But yes, Moira is the gut physical attraction between larger than life souls. And then Angel gets, like, really like, oh no! [laughs] He yells at her to stop saying that word—
Morgan: Mmhmm!
LaToya: The "kyrumption" and that's when Wes comes in. And this is when we get very upset because he's like, "I believe Fred's been through enough without people shouting at her." Ugh!
Morgan: Agh! And it's so—it's something very much, you know, with his heart in the right place. And like, obviously Angel didn't scare Fred or anything. But like, the idea that Wes is still so sensitive to that and still hurting and dealing with so much guilt, is a real bummer. Like, I mean, I think it proves that he's a good person who really tried to, like, take this experience and not… like, swipe it under the carpet. And to, like, think about the way he treats women, and to think about whatever he has internally—you know, whatever the spark it was that, like, Billy's magic set aflame, wherever that comes from and, you know, deal with it. But, ow! It hurt me to see, for sure.
LaToya: Yeah, and—like, when she just says, you know, you didn't mean anything by it. Just—Wesley still—he's not well.
Morgan: Yeah. He's not, he's still hurting from this. Yeah.
LaToya: Yeah. And then he asks Angel "who gave you all the flowers?" "Nobody." [both laugh] Dork.
Morgan: Ugh, I love when they—I love their goofy boy energy together. Like, nothing makes me happier than, like, Wes and Angel talking about things that aren't magic. Like, their friendship is so silly to me. Like, their—like, their friendship separate from working, because they're both just, like… I mean, honestly, just such dumb boys. Like, that Angel has this, like, kind of like, sweet, broody himbo energy, and that Wes is just an absolute dork. Their—the middle of their Venn diagram is so well-meaning and sweet. I—I always enjoy whenever they just get to chat. [laughs]
LaToya: Heh. It's nice, it's nice. So, Gunn, Wes and Fred are working on the scrolls. And Angel's creeping on Cordy, as I have in my notes. [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah, he's like, clearly having this like, "wait, do I like her?" moment of like, "are we in love?" Which I'm like, [LaToya laughs] how are you this oblivious if this has, like, never crossed your mind before, you dummy. [laughs]
LaToya: You know he's focused on work all the time. He's just a doofus.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Yeah. Fred's doing calculations and the world possibly ended last March. [both laugh] Yeah, and this is where we learn that the scrolls predict the arrival of a—the arrival or the arising of the Tro-clan.
Morgan: Ooh!
LaToya: A personal being that brings about the ruination of mankind. Sounds great.
Morgan: Yeah, just another day at the office for our gang. [laughs]
LaToya: And yes, ruination could also mean purification.
Morgan: Yeah, so like, it's another tricky word, much like Shanshu. Which, you know, ended up meaning to live and to die. And this one seems to mean—
LaToya: And—yeah.
Morgan: Quite a few possible things.
LaToya: Cordy brings up that mistake and she actually kinda is mean about it?
NOTES: [laughs]
Morgan: She is! Like, it—he tries really hard. I think it's very clear that this isn't easy.
LaToya: At first, it seems like she's joking but then, like, her reaction as the scene continues is like, she might actually be mad at him. [laughs] About, like, fucking up.
Morgan: Yeah, which seems to come from a—like, at least I seem to sense that it came from this, like, protecting Angel space. Of like, you know, he thought he was gonna die and that's, like, fucked up and you messed up. Like, Angel and Cordy are, in this moment, like, so protective of each other. We—like, Darla shows up at a moment where the two of them are finally, like… they're finally so close that they're starting to notice they're close. Like, and it—
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: It's an interesting kind of, like, shading in their dynamic, and I really like it. 'Cause it is—I mean, when—when you fall for someone who is initially your friend, there is that weird middle period of like, oh okay, is this, like, the platonic love I hold for my friend or is this something else? And like, what does that feel like? And the idea that that is the exact moment that Darla shows up pregnant… yikes! [laughs]
LaToya: Classic Buffyverse. And yeah. So, uh, they explain what the Shanshu prophecy is to Fred, 'cause you know, she still has some things she needs to learn about what's going on in this world. But while Angel's listening, you know, Cordy's saying what she would do if Angel, you know, became human. She's like, "Get him some plaid, I'm taking him to the beach 'cause the boy needs some color." To which—the—he doesn't even say anything, but like, he gets, like, that shallow Angel face. He's like—basically, he's thinking, "she thinks I'm pale?"
Morgan: Mmhmm! But I—whereas all I'm thinking is Cordy wants a beach day? Like, I love the idea. And I love the idea that she's immediately just like, yeah, I'd be there with him and I'd help him explore the, like, new world of, like, being able to be in the sun. And I'd wanna help him be a normal guy, and I'd wanna be a part of everything. Like, that is, again, such a clear—such a—like, it's so clear that she loves him. And however you wanna define that love is, you know, up to you. But it's so clear that she just sees them as people who are always gonna be in each other's lives. And I love that. Like, our gang's a little family and it makes me happy.
NOTES: [giggles]
LaToya: You love a found family.
Morgan: God, I really do! [laughs]
LaToya: Fred does more calculations and the Tro-clan should be in LA right about now. But right now, Angel has to give an awkward speech to Cordelia about being a man-pire.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
NOTES: [Clip from episode plays]
Angel: I was just thinking about things. People. You know, how they relate. Take you and me for instance. We're very different, very different. Obviously. Human. Vampire. Woman. Man… pire.
Cordelia: Has someone been putting vodka in your blood?
Angel: [laughs] You're funny!
Morgan: Maybe Angel needs to, like, write down what he's going to say before he says it. [laughs]
LaToya: 'Cause technically, the last time he wrote something down, it was his apology to Merl. And that was something that clearly Cordelia wrote for him.
NOTES: [laughs]
Morgan: Yes. [laughs]
LaToya: So I don't know if he knows how to write, honestly. We know he knows how to draw. Does he know how to write?
Morgan: Well, I mean, writing is just the drawing of words. [both laugh]
LaToya: We know he knows how to read because he does that in the dark all the time.
Morgan: Then he knows how to write. [both laugh]
LaToya: I wanna see it! But yeah, Cordy's like, "Angel, are you trying to say you love me?" And he's like, "What?" "I love you too." [laughs] And then she, like, tells everyone that Angel said he loves—like, "Angel loves me and I love him." "We love you, Angel!"
Morgan: The audio of everyone being like, "We love you!" I—I replayed it, like, three times. I—[LaToya laughs] The… oh my god. Again, like, you and I love New Girl. You and I love, like, sitcoms and I believe we share the enjoyment of a found family group. And—
LaToya: We do.
Morgan: Dang, these dummies love each other! And I—I just—I basked in that. That is, you know—this show doesn't always get to dwell on the, um, the fun and the love. 'Cause you know, we're doing the—the dark and the, you know, magical pregnancy of it all and the, you know, broody quest for redemption. But when they love each other, I just am the happiest person on the planet. And this was so dang cute.
NOTES: [Clip from episode plays]
Cordelia: You guys love us and we love you.
Wesley, Gunn and Fred: We love you, Angel!
Cordelia: We were all saying it earlier.
LaToya: And you know, she's like, "The good I've seen out—far outweighs the bad." And he says, you know, right back atcha, basically. [Morgan squeals quietly] And it's so sweet and they're cute. And then, here comes Darla, baby!
Morgan: Ooh. "Hello, lover."
LaToya: The worst—
Morgan: "Long time no see."
LaToya: The worst possible time. [laughs]
Morgan: Truly. These two people are being like, wow, so we love each other. We have bonds of mutual respect and we're both hot as hell. What does that all add up to? I'm no Fred with my math skills, but I would say it's that they should bone. And then… [laughs] Darla.
LaToya: Darla's here to show you what happens when you bone, Angel! [both laugh]
Morgan: Again, this show hates sex. [both laugh] Like, I—to quote Liz Lemon, "sex makes the people go away." Like, it is—[both laugh] Angel can't fuck or else something awful happens. And that is—his cel—his, like, forced celibacy is strange and I think we should—uh, should talk about it every once in a while, 'cause it is weird. [both laugh]
LaToya: Thank you, Morgan.
Morgan: But that said. Like, this is when Fred's like, "Who is this?" and Gunn reveals that they keep a chart… [laughs] of—
LaToya: Do you think Gunn made the chart after last season?
Morgan: I feel like it was a team effort. Like, I feel like it was kind of, like, someone had a misunderstanding. And then Gunn was like, what if this was all written down? And Wesley was like, well, if we were gonna do that, we obviously have to do it right. And there has to be kind of like a system to how it's laid out. And Cordy's like, well, okay, if it's gonna fit in the files, then it should be like this. And then I have a feeling that it became a group project, and that everybody got involved. And that once they asked Angel for some details for the chart and he almost found out about the chart and it got very awkward for a while and they had to hide the chart. And… now it just exists in the files. That's my personal belief. How do you feel?
LaToya: We do know that they like hearing his stories of back in the day. Like, when he was telling the Holtz story in the beginning of the season. So they could just be like, hey Angel, what about this time? And he would tell, like, a good old fashioned story, 'cause he's an old man and old men love telling their stories.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: So—but yeah. He could never learn of the chart. [both laugh]
Morgan: Oh yeah, he would be so mortified to know they had… [both laugh]
LaToya: So Darla's here. She is super pregnant. And then Cordy is no longer happy with Angel. In fact, she is mad at Angel. And she's like, "Hey. Is this true? Did you fuck?" And he—oh. He is being a real fuckboy here when he says, "Vampires can't have children." And she's like, "That's not what I asked you." [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah, Jesus, Angel. Very Season 2 Angel of him to be such a dick.
NOTES: [laughs]
LaToya: Fred suggests this is—that this is possibly the bad thing. [laughs] Darla's like, "What did you do to me?" Punches him. And Cordy's defending her because… Angel.
Morgan: Yeah, I mean—
LaToya: You got her pregnant.
Morgan: Yeah. 'Cause I mean, the thing—I love that. And I love the kind of like, Cordelia and Darla dynamic in this episode. This idea that Cordelia is someone who has, like, intense compassion for Darla and for her situation and for just how, like, vulnerable and afraid she is. Because what the fuck? Like, normal pregnancy is terrifying, in my opinion. There's a little person inside you. Like, they made the Alien movies because the idea of pregnancy is scary. Like, that's a little chest burster inside you, that you will, you know, hopefully grow to love. But it's terrifying. And poor, like, Darla, this is not supposed to be happening to her, and it is. Like, she—I just can't imagine how terrifying that would be. And I appreciate that Cordelia instantly knows and understands that.
LaToya: Meanwhile, Angel's suggesting it's a hysterical pregnancy. Uh, he's being a real… he's being a real Liam, honestly.
Morgan: Yeah, like, what? I—just 'cause truly, like, what does she have to gain [laughs] by being preg—like, I mean, I guess—
LaToya: "How do you know it's mine?" basically, is what he wants to ask.
Morgan: Truly! Like, I—I'm not impressed with Angel here. He's not—not being a very good dude or a very good, uh, you know, male ally. [both laugh]
LaToya: He—and then he gets, like, full dummy and tells Wes to, like, look into his books for it. Wes, you read! [both laugh] And Wesley opens his book and says, "I have absolutely no idea what's going on." And they're still calling Lorne the Host, by the way. [both laugh] At this point, why?
Morgan: He's Lorne, yeah. Like, you don't have to give him a title. [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah, and he's—Lorne is back to work at Caritas.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: The furies are there, working their mojo.
Morgan: Mmm!
LaToya: We got Arnie the demon worker, who can, I guess, play back people's— what people have said.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: That's cool. That's a cool power to have, I guess.
Morgan: It's a fun power.
LaToya: It's good for identity fraud. [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah, I know. I'm like, that's really good if he wants to, you know, make some cool prank phone calls. Is your refrigerator running? [LaToya laughs] Um, but yeah, I loved seeing the "mmm Angel" girls. Lovely—lovely to have them back. Lovely to have the way Angel is around them back. [laughs]
LaToya: Is it lovely to hear Cordelia call them "chippies?" What the fuck's a chippy?
Morgan: I don't know. And I didn't care for it. [both laugh] I will say, I did care deeply for Darla grabbing Lorne by the collar and screaming Danny Boy at him.
LaToya: [laughs] And you guys didn't want Angel to sing! This isn't much better!
Morgan: [laughs] I fucking loved it. But yeah, Cordelia is real over it with Angel in this scene.
LaToya: I mean, Angel's not making it any better by just making clear how much stamina he has.
Morgan: Mm!
LaToya: "Just once, just the one night, just the two or three one times that one night." Jesus! [both laugh]
Morgan: I mean, congrats to the both of you. But yeah, yikes. Maybe keep that—those details to yourself, pal. [laughs]
LaToya: Poor Buffy, unfortunately, didn't get to learn about Angel's stamina. [both laugh]
Morgan: No, that was kinda just, like, a one-time experience. And then the sexy blood drinking, which I do kind of count as an additional sex scene for them. [both laugh]
LaToya: You little freak.
Morgan: [laughs] That's me. There seems to be a belief that whatever is inside Darla is probably evil.
LaToya: Yeah, Lorne apparently knows about the Tro-clan. He's like, "Born out of darkness to bring darkness." Ooh!
Morgan: Mm!
LaToya: Yeah, Cordy's like, you guys are upsetting her, let me take Darla away to Lorne's little bedroom. And we get to see his bedroom in the bar, it's cool.
Morgan: Yeah, it's nice. And I really—I like the Darla and Cordy scene. And Lorne is—Lorne is such a dang sweetie.
LaToya: Basically—'cause yeah, they're talking about how it's biologically impossible. And then Lorne's like, yeah, it's mystically unfair, because if this thing is evil, like, what the hell?
Morgan: Yeah, like, Angel's worked so hard to be a force for good in this world. Like, it is not fair that, like, the fates would saddle him with some kind of like, evil, uncontrollable spawn. [laughs]
LaToya: Angel's like, "I don't see how anything we could make could be something good." And they're talking about the Shanshu prophecy being a pivotal figure. And it's like, maybe—'cause again, pivotal figure doesn't even mean, you know, good or bad. And that's kind of what Wolfram & Hart is banking on, obviously.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: With Angel, but like, maybe the pivotal figure is this—this baby.
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: And he has to bring it into the world, or stop it. And then this is where Fred goes on about destiny and things being inevitable or "evitable," if you will.
NOTES: [Clip from episode plays]
Fred: Screw destiny! If this evil thing comes, we'll fight it, and we'll keep fighting it until we whoop it. 'Cause destiny is just another word for inevitable and nothing's inevitable as long as you stand up, look it in the eye, and say, "you're evitable!"
Morgan: She's so cute. And Lorne agrees. He is just, like, looking at her with heart eyes. And I'm just so, so happy.
LaToya: It's like The Dating Game and it's, uh—the suitors are Gunn, Wesley and Lorne. [both laugh] All vying for Fred's heart.
Morgan: Who will be lucky enough? [both laugh]
NOTES: [AD BREAK]
LaToya: But yeah, Angel wants to know how Cordelia's doing. He doesn't really give a shit how Darla's doing.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And how Darla is doing is, you know… not great.
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: Cordy's bonding with her 'cause she brings up Expecting and the whole Ken Marino baby situation. So that's—besides the fact that she's mad at Angel, like, this is—she has that experience. Even though it was, like, a 24-hour thing, it's still happened to her.
Morgan: Yeah, I mean, she still felt all of, like, the fear and the vulnerability of not only, like, pregnancy but magical pregnancy that's kind of unexplained. So I do think it's nice, and I do like the idea—I also wanna say that, like, Angel has these two women in his life that I do think he's very much, like, forcing into these, like, black and white roles. The idea that, like, Cordelia is good and she supports me and, like, she agrees with me on everything. Whereas Darla is bad and my enemy and, like, I—you know—had bad, evil sex with her, making a bad, evil baby. And whereas Cordelia is everything that is good, and—when the truth is that the two—these two women are more, like, murky and complicated than he's allowing them to be. And that they can agree on things and that they can share things together, I think, is really exciting and is what makes the scene cool. But unfortunately, they do not get to bond for long. [laughs]
LaToya: Darla says that no matter how much she feeds, she just can't seem to get full, which—that's unfortunate. And Cordy's like, oh yeah, this is still a vampire, I should get going. But Darla's like, I'm still a vampire, I can just kinda zoop over to you. [both laugh] And, uh, Cordy gets her with those punches. And she busts out a cross and you know what? Vamps always push the crosses out of the way, so like, let's stop with the crosses, people. Unless they're, like, around your neck. Don't hold the cross. They're just gonna knock it out of your hand.
Morgan: Yeah. You gotta, like—or you have to, like, press the cross into their skin and make them burn and make it hurt them.
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: Like, 'cause just—
LaToya: It's not a forcefield.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: I feel like maybe some vampire mythology has it where it's, like—it's kinda like a forcefield. But that's not the case here.
Morgan: Yeah. I know there's—Michael is into this scifi book that has, like, scifi vampires where they are messed up by the cross only because it is an unnatural right angle. And it, like, sends their brain into disarray upon the sight of it. But that is not the case here. [both laugh]
LaToya: It's not. But yeah. Even though she puts up a good fight, Darla gets her with a big old chomp. And during this big old chomp, Cordelia has a vision. So that's double ouchies, basically. Double the pain.
Morgan: Yeah. Poor, poor Cordy. No thank you. But eventually Angel does come and save her from Darla, which is nice.
LaToya: He tosses this very pregnant Darla.
Morgan: I do love, more than anything, Gunn saying, like, well, we tried to stop her by hitting her fists and feet with our faces, but it didn't work—[both laugh] it's like, Gunn, this is serious! Not time for quips, although I love them. [both laugh]
LaToya: But yeah, so Angel carries Cordy and they go back to the hotel. Like, he leaves her in a suite with Gunn behind to keep watch. Although—I know it's nice to have her, like, at home base. But like, why not take her to her home? Because Darla can't get in, if you wanna keep her safe.
Morgan: Yeah, and Dennis would take care of her.
LaToya: He would.
Morgan: Yeah, he'd get her a nice bubble bath going. And put on some trashy TV. It'd be great.
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: But it is really sad 'cause Cordelia's very much, like, blaming herself in this scene. And like, you know, kind of like, blaming her compassion and, you know, feeling like she let her guard down with Darla. But it's the right thing, to be vulnerable and try to lead with kindness! [laughs] I love you, girl!
LaToya: I do appreciate, I guess—even though Angel's being—been a doofus. I like that he says—he's like, "I'm not gonna keep telling you how sorry I am." 'Cause obviously he knows that she should know—she was mad at him, but like, she knows how sorry he is. So, he's just like, "She's never gonna do it again. I'll make sure of that."
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And she—she remembers to tell him about her vision, which is that—it was like—she's like, "It's like no vision I've ever had before." She could, like, feel how hungry she was and she didn't know how to make the hunger stop.
Morgan: Right. Which is incredibly dangerous. [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah. So Wesley's trying to tell Angel not to do this alone, 'cause Darla's even stronger. But, you know, Angel goes off and Wesley's like, "Why does he think he has to do everything alone?" It's like, aww!
Morgan: Yeah, and doesn't Fred—Fred gives some, like, powerful insights about Angel as a person. And I'm like, dang, girl.
LaToya: She says, "I think he just can't bear to have us see him do it." Because, like, he's gonna kill the woman who has, like, the one thing he couldn't have, which is his child, basically. That's the plan.
Morgan: Yeah. 'Cause again, he's put—I feel like he's, like, externalized all of this evil onto Darla in this way, where like, she's like, the worst parts of me. Anything we did together could only be bad. Like, and all of this. And it—like, that's a coping mechanism, you know? Like, that's a way to continue to go about his mission. But it's—it's really sad. And it's great—it's a beautiful, like, lesson to him, that he ends up being wrong. But we can get into that as we move forward.
LaToya: Yeah, as we move forward to the Chuck E. Cheese from hell. [Morgan laughs] I know that might be, like, redundant but you know. [laughs]
Morgan: Charles Entertainment Cheese, please.
LaToya: Charles Entertainment Cheddar, really. [Morgan laughs] But yeah, this kid has lost his mom, which—this chaos. That's—he should have known to just, like, go to the front desk or something. But whatever. [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: Come on, kid. But yeah, Darla just has to be a good Samaritan.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And so, Cordy wakes from, like, her—from a dream slash vision. And it's like, about what's inside Darla.
Morgan: Darla has this moment with the kid where, like, a mom's like, "You're brave, taking him all on your own." And she's like, "I love kids. I could just eat 'em up!" And I'm like, alright, Hannibal. So then, Darla shows her terrifying vampire to this child. [both laugh]
LaToya: This child! He can scream. He can fucking belt.
Morgan: Yeah, this kid is very scared and good on him. That's self preservation. Luckily, Angel shows up and attacks this woman. [both laugh]
LaToya: It's—so meanwhile, Team Angel, they're still having fun with translations. But one thing I really wanna note is that in the scene, Cordelia says that her vision told her why Darla's craving younger victims. Which isn't something that was established, actually, in the episode. Which—were you confused or did you even, like, notice that?
Morgan: I… I remember being like, did she say it was about, like, purity? And like, blood stuff?
LaToya: Well, that's what Angel says—
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: Basically. But here is the reason why, like, it's like, wait. She's craving younger victims? Footage not found, is because—so it's actually in the original script. It's only just, like—literally, they removed a single bit from the whole line. So in this episode, you say—it has Cordelia saying, "It was like no vision I ever had before. She's so hungry, she doesn't know how to make the hunger stop." In the original script, it was like, "It wasn't like any vision I ever had before. The innocence. She's so hungry."
Morgan: Oh!
LaToya: And that—yeah, that's originally in the script. I don't know why, for some reason, they cut that out.
Morgan: Huh.
LaToya: But that explains, like—because otherwise, you're like, wait, she's craving younger victims? Like, I—
Morgan: So she's part—
LaToya: Wouldn't have known.
Morgan: Yeah, she's particularly hungry for innocent blood? Is that—
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: Okay. Wow. Yikes. [laughs]
LaToya: Which—we don't know that that's something that she was, like, escalating to.
Morgan: Yeah. No one on the bus seemed particularly, like, young or innocent. So, yeah. I guess they kinda back-fill it a little bit, but it—it's odd. But it didn't bother me too much 'cause there was so many other things going on. But you know.
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: Why not be clear?
LaToya: But yeah, Angel and Darla are fighting. And I love that everyone cleared out. Good for them.
Morgan: Smart on them, because like, they're fighting on the, like, McDonald's play place, plastic jungle gym slide thingy. And I did—I've never seen a fight on one of those before. [both laugh] So when they flew up on the netting and grabbed it, I was—I was having a great time. [laughs]
LaToya: If this was a New York vampire show, maybe they wouldn't have, like, left when they saw these vampire faces. But LA, they got the fuck out! [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah, no. No one in LA has any time for that shit. [both laugh]
LaToya: The second they saw a vampire, basically, they're like, nope! Nope, nope, nope! [laughs]
Morgan: I am leaving, I am going—like, these people paid for parking to be here. And they're like, this is bullshit. Like, if you leave, then you won't have to pay as much. And that's the LA mentality. [both laugh]
LaToya: Yeah, so they're fighting, and she calls him "the good guy who did this to me." Which honestly, is this just, like, just a normal pregnancy? Or is this vampire pregnancy? Who can tell? [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah. And I mean—and it's also like, there's like, there's so much baggage between the two of them, beyond that. 'Cause I mean, like, she was, you know, brought back to life to get at him specifically and all of this stuff. Like, what he has done to her is a pretty fucking long list. [LaToya laughs] So I appreciate the venom there and the idea that, like—all of their scenes, they're both such skilled actors that they do really bring their, like, full history to every single one of them. Like, these do feel like people who've known each other in so many different iterations for a really long time. So like, that line has a ton of weight, for me, and I like it.
LaToya: I do have to criticize her saying that he can't strangle her 'cause she's a vampire, because we know that you can strangle a vampire, apparently. Because of Becoming Part Two, because Spike chokes Drusilla out!
Morgan: Mmhmm! [laughs]
LaToya: That's canon, baby! [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah, we're playing fast and loose with those rules. [laughs]
LaToya: But yeah, so, fight, fight, fight. And then, Angel hears the baby's heartbeat. So he doesn't kill her, because our baby has a heartbeat.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And she wants him to kill her, 'cause you know, she's bad, she's evil. You know, everything Faith said when she wanted Angel to kill her. [laughs]
Morgan: I know, I was like, hello, Faith? [both laugh]
LaToya: But yeah. But it's—but she has a baby in her, also. And he's like, "It has a soul." And she's like, I don't want a human baby with a soul, no thank you.
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: She didn't want him with a soul, and he's still a vampire. So why would she want a human baby with a soul? No thank you at all!
Morgan: Mmhmm. And yeah, I—very Juno of him. He finds out his baby has fingernails. And he—he doesn't look back. And it's—it—like, the way he holds her and, like, kind of like, reassures her. She falls apart and you know, she's saying she's bad and she doesn't want it. Like, it is kind of, like, a really… it's a very poignant moment. Like, there's a lot going on there. Because obviously, like, for Darla, this is, like, an unwanted pregnancy and that's, like, pretty horrifying. And Angel's like, well, I want the baby, so. [laughs] Which, you know, I mean, like, the optics of that maybe are less than ideal.
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: But also, there's the fact that I don't think they would know how to get rid of this baby at this point, now that we're this deep in.
LaToya: Yeah. Like, she tried already and failed. But yeah, I still don't get the craving purer and purer blood. But I do get that the baby's soul is kind of driving her crazy part. That makes sense.
Morgan: That, I love. The idea that, like, they inadvertently, like, created this thing together—like, that their… I mean, and this is talking, like, bigger things for the season. But the idea that, like, if together they've created something with a soul, something with the potential to be positive and good in this world, that that can kind of justify their existence, in a weird way. And can kind of, you know, maybe make their lives, like, more worthwhile, is cool to me and interesting and complicated. Which is what I like about Angel, is how it is—it feels so much more adult than Buffy could. This is not a story they would have done. Like, I love all the coming-of-age stories that Buffy, like, handles and tells. And it talks about so many things about early and meant so much to me in my early life, and still does. But it is really exciting to be watching Angel now that I feel like I'm a little bit more of a grown-up? [laughs] Even though—
LaToya: You're a grown-up living in LA. This is a perfect show for you.
Morgan: Can you believe it? I don't believe that I'm a grown-up living in LA, but I guess I, by definition, am. [LaToya laughs] Thank you very much for inviting me on at the absolute perfect time for me to be watching Angel. And really, like, kind of getting it for the first time. 'Cause this—this hit really hard.
LaToya: It's good. Season 3 slaps, baby.
Morgan: Yeah, baby.
LaToya: I'm just gonna say it, 'cause I've decided we're gonna have a feud with the Buffering gals.
Morgan: [laughs] Oh, no!
LaToya: Even though we're on the same feed. You know what? I think we're having more fun this season, I'm just gonna say it.
Morgan: Look. More fun than Season 6 of Buffy? [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah, suckas!
Morgan: Notoriously the funnest season of Buffy? [both laugh]
LaToya: The feud is on in 2021.
Morgan: [laughs] Yeah, feud colon… Jenny and Kristin and LaToya and Morgan. [both laugh] Wait till Ryan Murphy gets his hands on this.
LaToya: To all of our Scoobies, please cast this season of Ryan Murphy's Feud for us. Please cast us as Ryan Murphy alum.
Morgan: Please—actually, yeah, honestly. There's nothing more that I want than that, so please do that. [laughs]
LaToya: But back at the hotel, Angel has given Darla some pig's blood and she's like, this is shit, and she throws it at the wall. As every vampire does when Angel's like, here, have some pig's blood! [both laugh]
Morgan: Truly the worst host on earth. [laughs] This is where Darla asks how Cordelia is.
LaToya: That hot bitch! [both laugh]
Morgan: [laughing] What a bitch. "How's Cordy?" Like, so fucking menacing!
LaToya: I do love that, come the series Angel, everyone just decided that we all know that her nickname's Cordy.
Morgan: I love it. It's so cute.
LaToya: I believe, literally… she was maybe called Cordy twice in Buffy.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: I think—actually, maybe just once. I think Buffy called her Cordy and I think usually, like, Xander would, like, call her Cor. But I don't think anything—yeah.
Morgan: I think he called her Cordy. I can hear "Cordy" in Nicholas Brendon's voice in my ear, which makes me believe that it happened. But I could have invented that. [both laugh]
LaToya: Angel has Gunn keeping watch again, this time on Darla, and this is to keep her away from Cordy and Fred.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And of course, Angel reminds Cordy and Fred to stay away from Darla. And they're like, no duh.
Morgan: Yeah. And it's interesting that, like, Angel has made these decisions that, like, you know, he believes, like, Darla is someone worth, like, saving and that this baby is worth having and he's made that complete change. But he still draws the line where he's like, Gunn, if she's, you know, moving, you take care of it. Like, that—the idea that, like, he still is protecting his—like, his family, you know, Team Angel, above all. I like to see that. That is what I like to see. [laughs]
LaToya: Now that Cordelia has, you know, been through this, she—she's been able to process. She is actually, like, kind of happy for Angel that he's gonna be a father.
Morgan: Mmhmm! Yeah. It's—it's a nice look on the two of them, that they can kind of, like, accept each other after having this big difference of opinion. [both laugh]
LaToya: [laughing] Difference of opinion, the opinion that "you told me that you didn't fuck, but you did."
Morgan: It's—well, yeah, it's less of a difference of opinion, more that Angel was being a dick and being dumb. And now he has come around to feeling bad about being a dick and being dumb. And now he and Cordy are yet again on the same page. [laughs]
LaToya: Kyrumption.
Morgan: Ugh! That's what kyrumption'll do. [both laugh]
LaToya: But yeah, it's another big, fun day at Angel Investigations. Honestly, Wesley is trying to be like, "This baby could be the prophecy thing." And Angel's like, you know what? That's my kid. Shut up, Wesley.
Morgan: Yeah, like, it could be evil but it's mine. Like, and that's—you know, like, that is—that's a big deal. Like, he is claiming this child. And, you know, being responsible. And that's, like—I don't know. That's just such a—[laughing] he didn't even know he was a dad, like, twelve hours ago! Wild.
LaToya: And now, and now Fred's uh-oh'ing because another fun translation. Arrive slash to come to land, and the thing is arriving now… [dramatic voice] underground.
Morgan: Dun-dun-dun!
LaToya: A demon we've never seen before is awakening something or someone. And he's like, arise! [Morgan laughs] And in true Buffyverse fashion, he says "arise" one last time and then he, like, waits multiple beats for the thing to actually arise.
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: And he's like, smoking a ciggy—
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Waiting for it. And I'm just like, these prophecies, man. And then we get some lights and sounds.
Morgan: Statue opens its eyes. [both laugh]
LaToya: [laughing] You know when statues be opening their eyes? It's crazy.
Morgan: That's when you know the real shit's going down. [laughs]
LaToya: And it shatters and then, "Welcome to the 21st century." It's Holtz! Ready to kill Angelus!
Morgan: Oh, no!
LaToya: And now it's time for Fuck Watch.
NOTES: [FUCK WATCH jingle plays] Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing Fuck Watch!
Morgan: So yours is Holtz, 100%, right? [laughs]
LaToya: No. My Fuck Watch is actually the inattentive mom who let her child run away. [both laughing] And then when the child is found, she's like, "where were you?" Like, not worried at all that her child was missing in this chaos and, like, this den of, like, child predators.
Morgan: And, may I ask… why? [laughs]
LaToya: I mean, you know what? She seems like she doesn't give a fuck about her child and that can be hot. [both laugh] And it means when I'm coming around, I don't have to worry about her dumb kid because the kid's not there! [both laugh]
Morgan: Wow! Wow, wow, wow, wow, wow. [laughs] Okay, okay. Respect.
LaToya: We're never gonna see her again, so I can choose her.
Morgan: Respect, respect. I'm gonna choose Darla's hot henchwomen, with their, like, flaming arrows and their, like, cool period dresses with long skirts and shit, kicking ass. I… that's—that is my deal. That is what's up. More—
LaToya: So you knew from, like, scene one what you wanted. [laughs]
Morgan: I—it's more like, looking back. I'm like, what got me the most excited? And I'm like, those fucking, like, Crimson Peak looking girls, like, beating the shit out of people. Like, that's—that's all I could ever ask for.
LaToya: And they were willing to die for Darla. [laughs]
Morgan: Which same, so we have that in common. [FUCK WATCH jingle plays] Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing Fuck Watch!
LaToya: But yeah. Holtz is here. He's ready to kill Angelus. And you know, like, the demon's like, you know, you haven't used your limbs in centuries, it could be a while. And he's like, I'm ready to kill Angelus now. [clapping] Let's fucking go! [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah, he—this guy is nothing if not, like, really, really focused on his goals. So, you got—again, as always. As I said before, I admire the hustle, if nothing else.
LaToya: I think it is time to suggest a classic episode from The WB vault for Angel to watch this episode, 'cause god, he really needs it, this episode. Hit the music. [DUBBA-DUBBA-WB jingle plays] Angel is a vampire Does he even like TV? "I think he'll like The WB." They got that hot teen drama To ease the pain and trauma And here's the episode that he Needs to see (aw yeah!)
LaToya: Thanks for hitting the music! So the episode that I'm going to suggest is actually from a show called Smallville. Heard of it?
Morgan: [sarcastically] Wait. You're recommending a Smallville episode? I didn't even know you liked that show. [laughs]
LaToya: [feigned surprise] What?! Somehow I've not recommended Smallville yet, and I double checked.
Morgan: That's impressive.
LaToya: Yeah, so the episode I am going to suggest is Ageless, which Smallville episode—of Season 4, Episode 20—you know, 420, blaze it. [Morgan laughs] Written and directed by Steven S. DeKnight, who would go on, I believe, to start writing on Angel in Season 4, actually.
Morgan: Hell yes.
LaToya: This is also known as the "exploding baby episode." [Morgan laughs] Clark and Lana discover an abandoned baby and take him back to the Kent farm. However, when the baby, Evan, ages from a newborn to a seven-year-old in less than a day, it becomes clear he is aging at a rapid rate and they turn to Lex for help. And you know what? This kid just keeps growing. And he keeps growing. But you know what happens at the end of that? He goes boom.
Morgan: Oof!
LaToya: And you know, maybe Angel should watch this episode to learn how to be a better dad. Because it seems that dumbass Clark Kent was a better dad in these few hours than Angel already is now, when Darla comes here and says, "You're a dad." Learn to take responsibility, because this 17-year-old boy did when he found a baby just in the street or wherever they found the baby. And, uh, you know what, he was really sad when it exploded. He never addressed it ever again, but he was really sad when it exploded.
Morgan: Aww. RIP 'splodin' baby.
LaToya: Usually I would not suggest going to Clark Kent or Lana Lang for advice on things. Except for how to be a big dumb alien. [Morgan laughs] Or how to whisper that your boyfriend should tell you his secrets. But in this case, I think they took care of that baby as well as they could for, you know, teenagers. As opposed to this 240-something year old man, who, at the sight of a baby mama, he's like, "It's not mine. Uh, I'm gonna kill you! Uh, it was just the one time." So… yeah, Angel.
Morgan: Yeah, not ideal, buddy. [laughs]
LaToya: Somebody save you, Angel.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Okay. It's plugs time, I believe.
Morgan: Yes.
LaToya: Follow us on Twitter and Instagram, @AngelOnTopCast. Email us at angelontoppodcast@gmail.com. Go to angelontop.com immediately! Which will direct you to our Patreon, which is gonna be popping soon because of Morgan Lutich, over here.
Morgan: Yeah, baby! Some exciting things coming in that space, so please stay tuned as I learn how to use it [laughs] and create content for it.
LaToya: [laughs] Yeah, you can all thank Morgan. Miss Lutich if you're nasty.
Morgan: [laughs] And you may be. [laughs]
LaToya: And of course, you can follow me on Twitter, @LaFergs, and from there, you can find out what I'm up to.
Morgan: [laughs] It's usually pretty cool. You can follow me on Twitter, @LorganMutich. Instagram on the same handle and any other platform you might be interested in following me on, I always use that username. And you can listen to the two of us, as long as our—as well as our good friend, Jill, on The AMPire Diaries podcast. Which actually has a new Patreon you subscribe to if you're interested.
LaToya: Become patrons on all of our platforms. Now! Immediately! Follow us on social media! Do it! Let us consume your lives! [Morgan laughs] Get rid of all of your other hobbies. Pledge loyalty to us in the war against Buffering the Vampire Slayer! [both laugh]
Morgan: Feud, colon, Kristin and Jenny and LaToya and Morgan! [laughs]
LaToya: Get it made! [Morgan laughs] Okay. Bye, everyone.
Morgan: Bye!
LaToya: We love you.
Morgan: Love you! [Angel On Top theme plays]