Angel On Top
Episode 3.17: Forgiving
Kristin: Hey there, Scoobies. It’s Kristin. I’m just up here at the very top of this episode of Angel On Top before the bell to let you know we had just a tiny little audio issue in the form of a microphone that wasn’t on the whole time. [laughs] Luckily, there was a computer microphone. You’ll hear that Morgan sounds just a little less high quality than usual. So if you’re a little jarred by that sound, please know it was just the microphone saying, "You know what, guys? This episode is too sad, even for me." [laughs] You won’t notice it too much once you get in, but now you know. And hey, let’s get into the episode.
NOTES: [CHIME]
LaToya: Welcome back to Angel On Top, a podcast where we watch and discuss every episode of Angel, one by one, spoiler free and in tandem with that rat bastard, [Morgan snorts] Buffering the Vampire Slayer. I’m your co-host, LaToya Ferguson, AKA the Cordelia Chase of the Buffering verse, AKA Bones, AKA one half of the Gunn Squad—bang, bang!—AKA Theodore K. Mullins, AKA Gilly, AKA lover of long winded bits, baby!
Morgan: [laughs] And I'm your co-host, Morgan Lutich, AKA the Winifred Burkle of the Buffering verse, AKA also Bones, AKA the other half of the Gunn Squad—pow, pow—AKA Frank Scabopolis, AKA sorry! AKA also a lover of long winded bits, baby.
LaToya: And this week, we are watching Angel Season 3, Episode 17, Forgiving. Forgiving was written by Jeffrey Bell and directed by Turi Meyer. It aired on The WB on April 15th, 2002.
Morgan: And this is the one where after the aftermath of Connor’s trip to Quor'toth, the gang desperately searches for Wesley, Fred and Gunn, to save him, and Angel, to kill him.
NOTES: [Angel On Top theme plays]
LaToya: Previously on Angel. "Check me out, I’m Mr. Dad!" Again. Justine telling Wes he doesn’t know everything Holtz has done for them. "Sounds like a nice cult!" The father will kill the son. But the burger mascot saying, the vampire will devour his child, which we’ll talk about. [laughs] Lorne telling them all what Wes did to him. Justine’s little prank and slice. "Hello, son, I am your father." Angel allowing Holtz to take Connor, but then Sahjhan opens up the portal, and Holtz is like, "I’m gonna jump into the portal with baby Connor." And Justine’s like, "Daniel!" We’re gonna talk about that, too. [laughs] And poor Angel just left all alone. So that’s our Previouslys. It starts off great—"check me out, I’m Mr. Dad"—and then ends like that.
Morgan: It ends like what the rest of this episode’s gonna feel like. [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah. Let’s just dive in. You don’t feel as good if you dive in.
Morgan: I’ve heard that somewhere, I can’t remember where. So we open in the Hyperion. Angel’s in his destroyed room, staring at the empty crib his son used to sleep in. So good vibes. We then cut to Wes’s place. Fred and Gunn are there. They’re trying to, like, figure out where he’s gone. Fred is listening to her own frantic voicemails, which makes me deeply sad. And she says, "It, like, doesn’t make sense. Why would he do it?" And Gunn’s like, "I don’t know, but he did it."
LaToya: Yeah, and he’s telling her, "Wes is not coming back. No toothbrush, no razor, no Mossberg 12-gauge he kept in the closet." That’s the gun that he pointed at Justine and did not use and we wanted him to use.
Morgan: Mmhmm. And they—together, they both agree that they need to find Wes before Angel does. Because if Angel finds him first, it’s probably not gonna be good. And Fred says she doesn’t wanna believe that he’d do this without a reason. And is like, "He kept diaries, right? Maybe we can find those."
LaToya: Once a Watcher, always a Watcher. Yeah, I appreciate—we talked about it before—appreciating that Gunn, you know—he has every right to be pissed at Wesley. But now, with the situation they’re in, he’s over any petty issues he had with him. And he’s just trying to, like, find his friend, figure out what the hell happened. [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah. Like, he’s confused. Yeah, Gunn is great in this, as he, I mean, always is. We are—bang-bang. He and Fred, in this episode, are just breaking my heart. They’re so earnest and they believe in Wes so much. And I feel that they’re right to, and ultimately, I’ll be interested to see—like, once we get there—to talk about how you feel about the way everybody accepts this information.
LaToya: It’s interesting because obviously, Cordelia’s not around. Wesley is not around. Angel is off doing his thing. It’s kind of—I don’t wanna say, like, the B Squad doing things.
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: But it has that vibe in a way, but not, like, in a "oh no, they can’t do anything"—do you know what I mean, or am I just talking nonsense?
Morgan: No, no, no. What I—my shorthand for that is when people are in, like, what I call, like, Iron Man 3 mode. [both laugh] Which is, I know, deeply nerdy, but that’s the movie where he’s, like, without a suit for a lot of it—
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: So it’s—a lot of the big pieces that we’re used to having are missing. And no one can rely on any, like, crutch or any, like, thing they usually have, and they just have to kind of have themselves. And I really liked looking at this kind of deconstructed Team Angel, and talking about what they can and can’t do together.
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: Like, you know—in terms of, like, you know, Fred can’t read every single language that these dusty old tomes are always in. And Cordy’s filing system doesn’t make sense. [both laugh] Like, all of that really tracked for me.
LaToya: Yeah, it only makes sense to Cordelia. And also, Iron Man 3 is the best one so that’s a great analogy.
Morgan: 100%, Iron Man 3—okay, I’m glad we’re an Iron Man 3 positive podcast. It’s the best. It’s the best Iron Man, possibly the best Marvel movie, so. There we go.
LaToya: I’d say it’s in the top five, for sure.
Morgan: Hell yeah. So after this, Gunn and Fred leave Wes’s. They’re like, okay, we’re gonna find these diaries. They’re—you know, they’re trying to get him on his cell. And they are inside the car, once we start to hear a cell phone ringing. And we pan over, over, over. We see the phone and we see, hey, it’s Wes. Still hanging out on the ground. [laughs]
LaToya: [sighs] Six weeks, and this is what it—what is happening.
Morgan: Absolutely brutal. So our next scene takes place in our favorite location, Holtz’s fighty manor. Justine storms in, she stakes the practice vamps and she’s like, "No more training. No more practice. From now on, everything’s real" to all the goons. "Holtz escaped. With a vampire’s child. Dot-dot-dot. As he and I planned."
NOTES: [both laugh]
LaToya: Justine is at her most Justine in this episode. [laughs] She’s Justine-ing all over the place in this episode.
Morgan: Justine-ing absolutely every which way. I wrote, "LOL, honey" in my notes under this. [laughs] Like—
LaToya: I wrote in my notes, "They should know she’s full of shit!" [both laugh]
Morgan: They absolutely should, but I mean, they don’t seem like they were ever smart, so. It just—Justine’s like, "Uh, Holtz wanted me to say that you guys did a really great job. And, uh, that we have to finish what he started and kill Angelus."
LaToya: Yep, that’s what he said! He also said there’s a problem with the left phalange. [both laugh]
Morgan: I mean, do you buy that she wants to continue this mission, just, like, clinging to any sense of purpose that she can find?
LaToya: I don’t think it’s so much wanting to continue the mission as she wants to find someone to blame who’s not Holtz. So she’s like, I’ll blame Angel. Let’s kill him, maybe I’ll feel better. And obviously, Fred realizes there’s no feeling better for you.
Morgan: Yeah, a handy scapegoat, for sure. And for some reason, none of the goons are like, "Cool, now that Holtz is gone, what was your deal with him?" [both laugh] I wish that there was one who, like, raised his hand and was like, "Yeah, by the way, what the hell?"
LaToya: "Hey, Justine, why are you beat to shit?" [both laugh]
Morgan: So then, Hyperion lobby. We’re with Fred, we’re with Gunn, and we’re with Lorne. Fred is devastated to find out that the baby’s gone, and even more devastated to find out that it left via a portal.
NOTES: [Clip from episode plays]
Fred: [crying] Not like that. Not a portal. There’s pulling and there’s noise and there’s nothing to hold onto. Nothing at all.
Gunn: Baby…
Fred: He musta been so scared.
Morgan: This broke my heart.
LaToya: I mean, yeah. It’s easy to forget at this point, you know, what Fred went through. ‘Cause she’s not the same writing-on-the-walls, never-leaving-her-room girl that she was when we started the season.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: You know, she’s adjusted. But that’s, like, a trauma that’s not going away and never should, really, ‘cause fuck portals.
Morgan: Absolutely fuck portals. And that’s, like, you know—that shit stays with you for quite some time. Gunn holds her and calls her "baby." [laughs] Which was very nice, and I drew hearts in my notes. And Lorne explains what he read off of Wes, which is he was meeting with Holtz in secret. And when he took Connor, he planned to never come back.
LaToya: Yeah, but Gunn’s like—he calls him "our Wesley." He refuses to believe it. He says, "You read Wesley wrong," basically. And Fred agrees.
Morgan: Yeah, which is great. Like, good—that’s a good friend. That’s a good pal. Yeah, I liked that. And Angel enters. He is in a mood, understandably. He’s, like, very numb and he’s like, "I’m gonna get Connor. Everyone’s gonna pay." And he orders Lorne to find out everything he can find out about Quortoth. Gunn and Fred are like, "Cool, we are very down to help but how are we gonna figure all of this out without Wes?" And Gunn even, like, is trying to skirt around even saying Wes’s name or referencing him. And Angel’s like, "We don’t need him. We’ll go through Sahjhan."
LaToya: Mmhmm, ‘cause Sahjhan’s behind all of this. Which, true.
Morgan: Mmhmm. One of the few lighter moments of the episode that I could find—in just a desperate attempt to find anything we could be funny about—Angel then produces a drawing of Sahjhan he did. [laughs] So I’m thinking about Angel angrily sketching.
LaToya: [laughing] Like, when did he do this?
Morgan: When did he—"I’m gonna get this guy! Just as soon as I get the shading on his upper lip right." [laughs]
LaToya: Because the rational time to do this is after the meeting with Lilah at the bar. That’s when you do it. But the idea that he did it after Connor was kidnapped? Is absurd to me. [Morgan laughs] So I have to ask you.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: As I told you, there was a six-week break, between these two episodes.
Morgan: You are so brave.
LaToya: How do you think The WB handled this?
Morgan: In terms of, like, marketing or…?
LaToya: Or, like, what they put in its place.
Morgan: Oh! Oh. Was there, like, a limited series?
LaToya: Yes, ‘cause they were not just airing Angel reruns, actually. What they instead did was they were burning off the rest of Kevin Williamson’s Glory Days. Do you know about Glory Days, Morgan?
Morgan: I have heard the title Glory Days, but I don’t know who’s in that one. Who is in Glory Days?
LaToya: Glory Days stars Eddie Cahill and Jay R. Ferguson. Eddie Cahill plays an author—it’s a real October Road situation—an author who wrote about his hometown. And he—while he changed the character names, everyone knows who he was writing about. And in his version of the story, though, he makes it a mystery novel where one of them is a murderer who killed his father. So he goes back and everyone’s upset with him. And so, you know, your standard going back to your hometown and everyone hates you story. Great story, right?
Morgan: Amazing.
LaToya: WB wanted more from that. Not just a simple going home story.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: After, you know, Dawson’s Creek, Young Americans did fail.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: So they made sure there was, like, a mystery aspect to the show, kind of like, going—capitalizing off of the fame of X Files. The popularity of X Files.
Morgan: Oh.
LaToya: So now it’s one of those things where it’s like, what are these spooky things happening in this town? And what are the real reasons behind these things?
Morgan: All of this makes me wanna tell you desperately about the time that I went to a screenwriting school. And you know, all of us got to know each other very well. And at a certain point, someone wrote a story about a bunch of us. And the character that was me was very subtly named…Megan.
LaToya: [laughs] I was hoping it was Lorgan.
Morgan: [laughs] Yeah, it was Megan. And I was like, huh, I wonder who this is. [both laugh] So fun times. Dang, Glory Days. RIP.
LaToya: But yeah, they burned off, like, the last three episodes of Glory Days. And then they just did 7th Heaven reruns back to back before Angel returned.
Morgan: We all needed to be free of sin for the return of Angel. [both laugh] So our next scene is at Wolfram & Hart. We’re with Lilah and Linwood in Lilah’s office. And Linwood’s like, "Hey, seems like a lot of stuff’s been going on that I haven’t been told." And Lilah’s like, "Who, me? I’m just writing a report with all of it. [laughs] It’s gonna be on your desk first thing in the morning."
LaToya: "I was totally gonna tell you the whole time." Linwood’s also in a tux, and we don’t know why. [laughs]
Morgan: I absolutely loved Linwood being in a tux. I wanna think about, like, the gala that he was at that he was torn from. Like, he was, like, having—there were passed apps wherever he was. Like, he was eating delightful little finger foods. He was drinking champagne, he was having a great time. Maybe he was gonna get out and dance a little bit. And then…work. Isn’t it always? [laughs]
LaToya: Are we the only pro-Linwood Angel podcast that exists? I think we might be.
Morgan: I think it—if we are, it’s wrong. But we might be the only one, yes. [both laugh] And Linwood calls this all, like, a big win for Holtz. To which Lilah replies, "If you call being in, like, a hell cesspool dimension a win."
LaToya: And he’s like, "Yeah, ‘cause it’s not a win for us." He’s upset with Lilah. Whoops.
Morgan: Whoops. Yeah, Lilah—Lilah being very casual with her job in this episode. I was—I was very worried for her career. I was like, you are not sucking up to your boss enough to—
LaToya: Yeah. ‘Cause she’s not even doing the whole Lindsey thing where it’s like, she’s morally conflicted. She’s just going against them ‘cause she’s, like, pissed at Angel. [laughs] She just wants to do more evil, but like, not their allowed evil.
Morgan: Yeah. I—there are moments I’ll point out as we go along, where I’m like, you should not be doing this. [both laugh] I was very worried for her job security. [both laugh] Which I shouldn’t be, she’s evil. I shouldn’t care. But she’s so pretty.
LaToya: Yeah, she looks really good in this scene.
Morgan: She looks really good in all scenes. [both laugh] Our next scene’s at the Hyperion office. This is where we start to hit some research roadblocks, where Fred can’t read all the languages that Wes could, so she doesn’t have access to all the books, and Gunn can’t figure out Cordy’s filing system. This is where Fred is like, "Oh, I’ll just call Cordelia then." And Angel stops her, hangs up the phone. And when she’s like, "Why shouldn’t I call her?" and Angel says…
NOTES: [Clip from episode plays]
Angel: [choked up] She’ll be back soon and when she does, she’ll have presents for Connor. And he’s gonna be here so she can give them to him, okay?
Morgan: [laughing] No way, man. Absolutely not.
LaToya: You just turn the episode off and be like, I can’t do this anymore. I quit.
Morgan: I wanted to. I guarantee you, I paused it both times to, like, put my face in my hands and hide. I’ve written in my notes in all caps, "ouch."
LaToya: Again, we’ve talked about this, but I like the way they are writing the Cordelia’s absence, where it’s not, like, every scene, you’re like, "Well, why isn’t Cordy just here?" You know, these—I think it’s reasonable why she’s not around and why Angel’s, like—Angel shutting it down doesn’t just feel like, well, she’s not available so we can’t have her. So I think they do very well with the reasons behind Cordelia not being here, even though Cordelia should be here because the chaos that they get up to when Cordelia Chase is not around.
Morgan: We need Cordy. She—like, things fall apart when she’s gone and this is the evidence. [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah. Jeez. Wow, like, really. Things just took a tremendous downturn when she left.
Morgan: Yeah. She’s a pretty crucial piece of the team. And to think otherwise is foolish, in my opinion. [laughs] So Angel ultimately, like, realizes I guess he’s being…kind of intense or unreasonable and he, like, apologizes and leaves. He’s like, "This just isn’t working, forget it." And Gunn and Fred are like, "Forget it? What the hell?" And they decide that they need to go find Wes before Angel does, just in case he decides that, um, he’s gonna go after some vengeance.
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: So. Fun stuff, fun stuff. [laughs]
LaToya: Speaking of fun stuff. A homeless man finds Wesley.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Almost seems like something good might happen. Nope.
Morgan: What star was Wes born under? For real. Like, every single thing that could possibly go wrong goes wrong. This guy tries to check him for ID, ‘cause they—he assumes he was mugged. And since he has a bunch of cash, he just takes it. Not only does he take the money, he then hides the body.
LaToya: Come on, dude.
Morgan: Not cool.
LaToya: You could have taken the money and still helped him, honestly.
Morgan: Uh-huh! [laughs]
LaToya: He’s not speaking. We know this.
Morgan: Yeah. So as my, you know, stomach ulcer grows, we go to the Hyperion lobby, and we have an Angel and Lorne scene. Lorne is back and he’s like, Quor'toth is very scary and there are no portals there. To get there, you have to rip a hole in reality with, like, centuries of gathered dark magic.
LaToya: Yes. So the reason Angel doesn’t give a shit about what Lorne’s saying is because he has kidnapped Linwood and plans to torture him.
Morgan: As plans go, I guess it’s a pretty solid one. [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: I write in my notes, "It would appear to be torture o’clock." And Linwood’s like, "Look, look, look. You can have all of Wolfram & Hart’s resources." And Angel says, "Who’s Sahjhan? How do I get my hands on him?" And he’s, like, got a little pointy spike at—right at Linwood’s eye. This is when Linwood is like, "Please dial three on my speed dial." And I would like to ask, who is number two?
LaToya: Is one Wolfram & Hart, two is his wife, I’m guessing?
Morgan: Well, I think usually on speed dial, there’s no one. It’s just two—it starts with two. I—
LaToya: Why do you know so much about speed dial?
Morgan: This is what I remember it being like on my parents’ old cell phones. [both laugh] I think it starts on two, and then—which I’m like, wow, Lilah, second on the list. Congrats, girl. Do we think two is just his own assistant so that he can roll calls or—
LaToya: His mistress.
Morgan: Is it his mistress? [both laugh]
LaToya: We’re just, like, writing Linwood fanfiction any time he shows up.
Morgan: Look, we have said several times, we wanna write expanded universe materials. Let us write the Linwood diaries. [both laugh]
LaToya: Just absolutely insufferable, grotesque. Just offensive in every possible way. [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah, absolutely. Like, I want it to feel like old James Bond. [both laugh] So there we go. Again, I—clinging to anything fun. So he says on the phone to Lilah, "Give him anything he wants."
LaToya: Aw, yeah.
Morgan: So he’s sufficiently intimidated.
LaToya: Yeah. He’s a little coward.
Morgan: He really is, yeah. He’s pretty gutless. Then at fighty manor, we have a Justine, Fred and Gunn scene. Justine is whittling.
LaToya: She’s whittling all alone.
Morgan: [laughing] God—
LaToya: Again—
Morgan: Nothing’s sadder.
LaToya: She is Justine-ing all over this episode. Everything she does, I’m just like, that’s so Justine.
Morgan: Like, a classic Justine, at every turn. Gunn does some threats. Fred is sick of violence and she’s like, "I get it. For you, like, losing Holtz must be like losing a father." [LaToya laughs] Dot-dot-dot. "Or worse." And I write in my notes in all caps, "So Fred also agrees the vibe is hard to pin down." [both laugh]
LaToya: Like, I can’t imagine Justine smooching anyone. [Morgan laughs] Maybe her stake.
Morgan: Yeah, maybe once she’s got it freshly whittled.
LaToya: I love that Justine thinks the dweebs who are the cult can do anything to Gunn. Wesley kicked their asses tremendously. [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah, like, it’s not gonna happen. It—but one of them gets a knife to Gunn’s throat. And then Justine has a little mini flashback of slitting Wes’s throat and is like, "Ahh! I, um—I mustn’t allow this to continue to happen."
LaToya: After she puts her hands on Fred, by the way.
Morgan: Didn’t care for that, didn’t care for that. Fred also sees the place is messy and is like, "Ah, trash. Remind me of that later." [laughs]
LaToya: So yeah, Justine suddenly is growing a conscience, and are we supposed to care?
Morgan: [laughs] Yeah, I didn’t care for her redemption. And obviously, this is a show, like, about redemption and stuff like that. But I’m not interested.
LaToya: [simultaneously] I don’t forgive her, so.
Morgan: Mmhmm. Yeah—
LaToya: No "Forgiving" for Justine in this episode.
Morgan: Yeah, none of it goes towards her. [both laugh] But to be fair, it doesn’t seem like anyone gets forgiven in any way, shape, or form this episode. Kind of misleading title. I think if you title an episode Forgiving, someone needs to do some forgiving in the episode. But that’s just me, maybe. [laughs]
LaToya: I mean, they talk about forgiving and that’s how they trick ya.
Morgan: So. Justine’s like, okay, get out. Like, bye. You can live. Then at Wolfram & Hart, we have Angel and Lilah. They’re going to the white room, which Lilah is jazzed about.
LaToya: She is so giddy and Angel is having none of it.
Morgan: [laughs] What do you think of the white room and its, like, design and, like…what is in it? [both laugh]
LaToya: Great questions, Morgan.
Morgan: Thank you.
LaToya: I mean. I have larger context about the white room, just ‘cause I know—or remember more of what happened in the show. Maybe you should talk about your feelings on the white room.
Morgan: I believe I make this reference constantly. But all I could think of was Resident Evil. Like, I—this looked very Resident Evil to me. Evil little girl, all white space. Like, spooky, endless, slightly bad CGI. Like, all of that just screams Resident Evil to me. [laughs]
LaToya: So you loved it?
Morgan: So I felt safe and at home. I have high standards for spooky little girls, so I wish this girl had been a little creepier. But it was still pretty good—a pretty dang good performance and a good thing. It was definitely unsettling, which was the goal. So—
LaToya: I think she was plenty creepy without being try-hard in the creepiness.
Morgan: I appreciated that, and I think that’s better than—I would rather it just be a little less than too much, you know? So you are correct on that, because we’ve all seen the, like, too-creepy little kid that’s like, [creepy voice] "I love to eat souls." Like, you know, that’s not—that’s not scary. Like, are you scared by what I just did?
LaToya: [laughs] No. Not at all.
Morgan: So you see, that was why it was a good example of something that doesn’t work. [laughs]
LaToya: And of course, this little girl—who’s not even really a little girl, obviously—is played by now-retired actress, Kay Panabaker. Kristin, do you wanna say things even though I rained on your parade with all the fun facts? [laughs]
Kristin: Are you asking for admission to my corner? [laughs]
LaToya: No!
Morgan: Can I come in? Can I come in?
NOTES: [Kristin laughs] [KRISTIN'S CORNER jingle plays] Kristin's Corner! Kristin's Corner! It's all Riley sucks and what the fuck And horny is hot Kristin's Corner is the place For very deep thoughts
Kristin: You may come into my corner. Thank you so much.
Morgan: Ooh! [laughs]
Kristin: Welcome. Yeah, first of all, I disagree, Morgan. I think this little girl nailed it. I loved her. She reminded me of—I don’t know if either of you are Game of Thrones humans and can help me with the name of the character I’m thinking of. But the little girl who kills the giant.
Morgan: Little baby Mormont?
Kristin: Yeah, the baby Mormont, mmhmm. What’s her name?
Morgan: I—I forget her first name. And everybody is yelling at me. This is, like, my one job.
Kristin: [simultaneously] It’s like—it’s not Alyria and it’s not—
LaToya: Oh, Arya?
Kristin: Lee—no, no, no, no, no.
Morgan: Lyanna.
Kristin: Lyanna. Lyanna Mormont.
Morgan: Yeah.
Kristin: She gave me strong Lyanna Mormont vibes. Because she was, like—because she wasn’t playing creepy.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
Kristin: She was just playing, like, an adult in a child body? Which I feel was very effective. And yes, I foolishly, before we started recording this episode, was like, guys, I have a fun fact about the little girl. [laughter] And LaToya was like, [hearty fake laughter] "You mean retired actress, shmiggety-shmog?" and I was like, "Yeah." [all laugh] But I went on a deep dive—what I thought was a deep—a deep dive for Kristin Russo. A mere skim for LaToya Ferguson. But she’s a zoologist and I was reading her Instagram—I was checking out her Instagram today. She hangs out with animals at the zoo!
Morgan: That’s so lovely.
LaToya: Do you know the other Buffyverse connection she has? That you should know, Kristin.
Kristin: Wow. So you came to my Corner…? [laughter]
LaToya: This is a setup.
Morgan: [crosstalk] Corner.
LaToya: [crosstalk] tell you this one.
Kristin: You walk into my corner?! No, I don’t know her other Buffy connection.
NOTES: [laughs]
LaToya: Well, in the one-season Greg Berlanti series, No Ordinary Family, Kay Panabaker played the daughter of which Buffyverse actress?
Kristin: Morgan knows.
Morgan: I know!
LaToya: Morgan knows.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Alyson Hanigan.
Morgan: Julie Benz!
LaToya: Julie Benz, baby!
Kristin: Ohh! That checks out with my Instagram stalking, because Julie Benz follows this actress. And I was like, wow, they really just met each other from this one episode of Angel? How did they—that’s how it—[LaToya and Morgan laugh] so you’ve solved a mystery for me. Great. Great.
Morgan: There we go.
Kristin: Also, I fucking love the white room. I said this to you both when we were not recording, but I remember very little of Angel the series. And this episode, unfortunately, my brain was like, oh hey, we have this little package of traumatic television you’ve watched. It’s over here in the corner. [laughs] So I remembered it—like, so much of what happened in this episode. And I love the white room. I also love the way you get there. I’m rewatching Lost, so I was like, what are the buttons? Are they 4-15-16? [laughter] No, they’re not.
Morgan: I also love the way that you get there. I loved—I love Wolfram & Hart’s weird elevators. [laughs]
Kristin: Right? It’s like a video game shortcut. Like, I remember when I was a kid, playing video games, and we would get those, like, big books that had all the shortcuts you could do. You’d, like, fucking bonk your head on this question mark and then, like, walk three paces to the left and then a door would open. [laughs]
Morgan: I also played video games that had similar books. I just never bought the book ‘cause I was like, if I can’t do it by myself—
Kristin: Ooh.
Morgan: I don’t wanna be able to do it. So I would just never finish any game,
NOTES: [Kristin laughs] out of pure stubbornness. [laughs]
Kristin: Oh, yes. I’m no longer a gamer, but you heard it here first. At age eight, I was right there, with my book, fucking—and my Zelda and my fucking Super Mario Brothers. Anyway.
Morgan: [laughs] I love it.
Kristin: Thank you so much for coming to my corner. You’re both great. This episode of television—you could almost say that it is one of the most upsetting things you’ve ever seen, unless you are me and you host Buffering the Vampire Slayer [laughter] in which case…it is sadly more upsetting. [laughter] ‘Kay, bye, guys!
Morgan: ‘Kay, cool brag. [laughs]
NOTES: [KRISTIN'S CORNER jingle plays] Kristin's Corner! Kristin's Corner!
Morgan: Oh my goodness. So little Panabaker is like, "The baby’s gone, you want Sahjhan." And explains about the past when Sahjhan was—you know, had a physical form. And he created a lot of trouble, which she likes, but also a lot of chaos, which she doesn’t like. [laughs] And—
LaToya: He was a little badass, Sahjhan.
Morgan: Yeah, he was cutting off heads. We see a little bit of flashback stuff. Angel deduces that they made him immaterial because of that. And she’s like, "Yeah, I did! [LaToya laughs] I’m a little stinker."
LaToya: She’s a little Gilly is what she is.
Morgan: "Sorry!" [laughs] And he’s like, "So how do I catch Sahjhan?" and she’s like, "Well, there’s like, an old urn," which is, like, the thing that Holtz had. But that would just take him. You want to actually hurt him, and you can, but there’s a price. And he’s like, cool. What is it? And he’s like—she’s like, "Kill her." And he just lunges for Lilah. [both laugh]
LaToya: He is about to snap Lilah’s neck. It’s about to be game over for Lilah Morgan. [laughs]
Morgan: I screamed. I was—I love it.
LaToya: If it isn’t the consequences of her actions. [both laugh]
Morgan: Yeah, how could this have ever happened to me? Yeah, it’s so funny. And she, like, giggles, the little girl does. And she’s like, "Okay, that’s enough, that’s enough, that’s enough, that’s cute. I’m glad. We can work on this." [both laugh] So she gives him the—a ritual—you know, a little piece of paper with instructions on how to do a ritual to get Sahjhan.
NOTES: [AD BREAK]
LaToya: Back in Wesley’s neighborhood, Wesley’s still laid out in the park. But Fred is going into a dumpster.
Morgan: Fred says to her boyfriend, "Okay. Throw me away." [both laugh] Same, honestly. She dumpster-dives and she finds the diaries. She and Gunn are going through all the diaries and they’re like, Wes is really scared, is like, what I’m picking up on. And Gunn says, "Of what?" and Fred says, "Impending doom, big prophecy. It says, it can’t be coming. It can’t be true."
LaToya: Aw, Wes.
Morgan: And they’re like, huh, prophecy. What prophecy? And then Gunn finds it. The father will kill the son.
LaToya: Yep.
Morgan: To which I write in my notes, "That’ll fucking do it!" [laughs]
LaToya: That’s the one.
Morgan: And Fred is, like, genuinely relieved there’s a reason. Like, she’s like, happy. She’s like, phew! Like, Wes did the right thing. He did the only thing he could do under the circumstances.
LaToya: Yeah, we kinda talked about that. Like, he’s doing what he could—like, what he thought was the best thing. And I guess—the thing is here is that Fred finds this knowledge to make her, like, optimistic. Gunn, not so much. Even though he’s like, obviously relieved to know what Wes’s reasoning was. He doesn’t think this is gonna solve anything.
Morgan: Yeah. Fred’s like, "Let’s go tell Angel." And Gunn’s like, "So he can forgive him? Like, that’s not gonna happen."
LaToya: And Wes is still dying outside.
Morgan: So fun. It’s like, guys, he’s so close and just losing more and more blood by the second. [laughs] So then, in the Hyperion lobby, we have a Lorne, Angel, Lilah and Linwood scene. It is ritual time and Lorne is not on board.
LaToya: Lorne is trying to talk sense into Angel, which is hard to do with Lilah there, being Lilah. [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah, Lorne’s doing his best but it’s just not happening. The next ingredient in the ritual is human blood. So Lilah, like, walks toward Linwood menacingly with a knife, and then does a palm-slice on herself.
LaToya: Yeah, I’m trying to figure out what her reasoning was for this. Did she hope that, like, Linwood was not making—obviously, she hopes he wasn’t gonna make it out alive. But did she, like, really think he wasn’t gonna make it out alive?
Morgan: It’s not like there’s nothing to scaring him a little bit, reminding him that, like, when she’s in charge, you know, he’s at—you know—her mercy or whatever. But I think she played with her hand a little too much. [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah. After, again—
Morgan: [simultaneously] Unwise.
LaToya: She did a bunch of things she wasn’t supposed to do. [laughs] She did things versus Wolfram & Hart, essentially. [Morgan laughs] And now she—this was unwise. I mean, palm-slicing in general is unwise, but the teasing?
Morgan: Agree.
LaToya: No, that—don’t do that, Lilah.
Morgan: Like, and that is—and as—we are obviously Linwood stans. But this is us looking out for Lilah and for her job security. [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah. Like, what was that, Lilah? Come on. That was a Lindsey thing to do. [laughs]
Morgan: Oh, that was textbook Lindsey. [both laugh] So then Latin is read, there is wind, there is lightning. There is…nothing.
LaToya: Jack shit.
Morgan: Then, on a nearby street, Sahjhan materializes in the middle of the road and is promptly hit by a car, because he’s corporeal now.
LaToya: [laughing] I’m like, should I say huzzah? Do we want him to be corporeal? What is the reaction I should have to him being corporeal?
Morgan: I think this is as good a time as any to say that I’m not, nor have I ever truly been, on the Sahjhan train. I have not even found him to be honestly, like, a villain I love to hate. I do not enjoy his snarky asides and his anachronistic speech. I just wanna punch him. [laughs]
LaToya: I mean, it is speech of all times, because he is of all times or whatever.
Morgan: I understand that it is justified. But he does one of my big pet peeves, which is later, when he’s like, "I flitted around. In a manly way." I was like, ew.
LaToya: Yeah, he has—
Morgan: If you have to clarify that it’s a manly way, maybe it wasn’t, and also, who cares if it was? That doesn’t matter. [laughs]
LaToya: He has a strange relationship with his, like, masculinity, as we’ve noted before. And also, little Panabaker is calling him "them," actually, in the white room.
Morgan: Mm!
LaToya: So.
Morgan: Oh, okay.
LaToya: I’m just curious in general, now.
Morgan: Yeah, huh. Interesting.
LaToya: Because he points out earlier that he’s, like—he’s male-presenting, as he says.
Morgan: Mmhmm. Yeah.
LaToya: But now, who knows? What is Sahjhan’s deal? We just know he’s versus a baby.
Morgan: [laughs] Again, which—as I’ve said before—embarrassing.
LaToya: I mean, that’s actually the best part about Sahjhan, that he is versus a baby and he goes through all this. Like, his whole partnership with Lilah is because he is versus a baby. I feel like Justine’s nemesis is also a baby, ‘cause the baby took Holtz away from her—took her Daniel away from her!
Morgan: And you have proved my point. [LaToya laughs] Because who is more embarrassing? [laughs]
LaToya: I’m surprised we didn’t get any Kristin talking about Justine during her corner. [laughs]
Kristin: I, like—[Morgan and LaToya laugh] it took me everything to not come on mic every time you were like, Justine just Justine-ing all over the place! I was like—
LaToya: ‘Cause isn’t she?
Kristin: [laughs] She is. It’s literally—I’m so sorry, but it’s like, I couldn’t, I couldn’t. The only thing—the only thing that I liked of Justine, now that I’m here, that I will say, is—I don’t like that she hits Fred. But the way she hits Fred is pretty good. It’s like, the only thing that she’s ever done in the entire show where I was like, oh, maybe she can punch a person. You know what I mean?
Morgan: She sold the punch very well. Yeah.
Kristin: She sold it. It was, like, her whole arm was straight—it was like, straight arm slap. It was good. And everything else…you know how I feel. I didn’t need to be here. You could just—you could have heard this in your own minds. [laughter] Thank you for letting me say—
LaToya: We’re just double-checking.
NOTES: [crosstalk]
Kristin: Justine Justine-ing all over the place! [laughter]
LaToya: She really is.
Morgan: Yeah. No one was safe. [laughs]
LaToya: So now, [laughing] Angel’s carrying Linwood up the stairs in the chair.
Morgan: So funny. The clunk, clunk, clunk of this was making me laugh. And he’s like, yeah, I’m gonna kill this guy. [laughs] Linwood’s yelling and he’s like, "Lilah! Like, Lilah, you’re not supposed to let this happen." She is doing nothing. Lorne is, like, shouting at Angel, like, trying to appeal to his, you know, whatever remaining sense of morality he has. And he’s like, "Remember, like, we don’t murder?" [both laugh] And Lilah, then, is the only one who can stop all of this. And she pops out, sticks her head in and goes, "Whoa. Flag on the play." [laughs] Which made me laugh hysterically. She says that the tech guys detected a bio-plasmic disturbance at the same time as the spell, and they figure that must be Sahjhan and he’s nearby. So Angel drops the chair.
LaToya: [laughing] It’s so funny! It’s so brutal.
Morgan: [laughing] And Linwood rolls down the stairs and the chair shatters.
LaToya: It is good to me.
Morgan: Yes. But what is not good to me is Angel trying to leave, and then Gunn and Fred are there, and they’re, like, desperately trying to stop him.
NOTES: [Clip from episode plays]
Fred: Wesley was trying to protect Connor.
Gunn: He was trying to protect you. Same as we’re doing right now.
Morgan: And Angel doesn’t wanna hear it. He’s like, "Okay. Well, that prophecy’s a lie. ‘Cause I would never hurt someone I care about," he says, glaring at Fred, who has put herself in between him and what he wants. [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah, it’s…we know the prophecy’s an asshole and we get more reasons why the prophecy’s an asshole. But again, you have to remember that our favorite burger said specifically—
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: "The vampire will devour his child." So that was actually the truth.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: That has—honestly had nothing to do with the prophecy.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: That was just the truth because of what Sahjhan and Lilah did.
Morgan: Yes.
LaToya: But because of that, that added more to Sahjhan’s nonsense that he created. It’s just all a big old asshole. [both laugh] That’s what it is.
Morgan: It’s really hard to see, like, him treat them so poorly. I didn’t like it in Season 2, I don’t like it now. I know he’s going through it and I respect that and I understand it. But it sucks for him to just, like, growl essentially at her. "‘Cause I’d never be mean. Now, like, leave or I’m gonna be mean." [laughs] Like, it’s just…ouch.
LaToya: I mean. At least it just lasts—at least for them—
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: In this episode, and not a whole arc like in Season 2.
Morgan: Yes. Thank goodness.
LaToya: He does apologize to them here.
Morgan: Mmhmm, yes. And Fred wants to go after him and Gunn’s like, "Absolutely not, ‘cause if he puts a finger on you, I’m gonna kill him."
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: Hot. [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah.
NOTES: [GUNN jingle plays] Check that tux, check that bod Sign me up for the Gunn Squad Did someone say Golden God? I’m all in on the Gunn Squad Gameboy-playing himbo king Sign me up for the Gunn Squad Even when he’s curmudgeonin’ I’m all in on the Gunn Squad Bang bang! You know Charles gonna shoot his shot Bang bang! Cracking skulls up and down the block Bang bang! Got a smile that make the panties drop Bang bang! Gunn Squad, Gunn Squad
Morgan: So then out in the courtyard, I write in my notes, "Justine really tries it."
NOTES: [both laugh]
LaToya: Oh, my notes are, "God, Justine and the cult are so fucking bad at this." He takes them all out immediately.
Morgan: So quickly, and then he leaves the courtyard and Justine, like, launches herself at him for one final assault. And Angel says to her, "I’m not your boyfriend. Find someone else to smack you around." Ahh! I write—
LaToya: Which makes me—it makes me wonder. Because later, when Justine’s having her memories of Holtz, I’m like, this is all abusive.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Were we supposed to get, like, a more physically abusive relationship between them, possibly, do you think?
Morgan: Like, well, I mean, it was very physically abusive and, like, mentally abusive. Like, he’s a cult leader who’s manipulating her. Like, there’s no piece of it—
LaToya: Physically abusive in a way that Team Angel would see.
Morgan: Yeah, I guess that’s not. But I mean, I guess he just assumed that she—that Holtz beat her up. And I mean, correctly assumed it, because we—
LaToya: He’s a man from the 1700s. I’m sure his thoughts on feminism aren’t the best?
Morgan: [laughs] You don’t think Holtz is a woke bae? [laughs]
LaToya: Ugh! [laughing] This excerpt—Holtz is a woke bae.
Morgan: Holtz is a woke bae, Holtz and his pussy hat. [both laughing]
LaToya: No! Someone’s gonna Photoshop that.
Morgan: [simultaneously] Nevertheless, Holtz persisted. But yeah, it’s genuinely, like—I wrote in my notes, about what Angel says, "Not exactly champion talk." Like, even if it’s right—even if it’s accurate, it’s pretty vicious and awful to say. Which again, he’s in a vicious and awful mood, for pretty valid reasons. But we’re seeing some dark behavior from our boy.
LaToya: I mean, he is the dark avenger. This is true.
Morgan: I’ve heard that, yeah. [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah. But—so he bails. He’s like, "fuck off, Justine!" Is basically what he’s saying. [both laugh]
Morgan: I mean, that’s what he should have said to begin with. [laughs]
LaToya: Angel comes back from a six-week hiatus of 7th Heaven reruns and immediately, Angel says, "Fuck off!" [both laugh]
Morgan: It would have been valid. Nobody would have minded. Everyone would have been like, that’s fine.
LaToya: I just keep—I keep imagining letters from 7th Heaven fans about Angel the series. [both laugh]
Morgan: So Gunn and Fred come out. They see Justine and her goons fleeing in Wes’s car, and they’re like, holy shit. Okay, I guess she has that? Like, how did that happen?
LaToya: Yeah. [laughing] And they’re like, time to tail her ‘cause it’s easy to tail Justine. How slow was she going that they could catch up to her as she had already started driving? When they were just standing in the courtyard?
Morgan: [laughs] Oh my god. I imagine it’s very easy, but I’m wondering how. Did she leave a trail of chunky boots? And leather jackets? [both laughing] That you can follow like breadcrumbs?
LaToya: I’m surprised she doesn’t have, like, a wallet chain. [both laugh]
Morgan: Then at the scene of the car accident, we have our nice, sad guy who hit Sahjhan is, like, sitting on the curb, feeling heartbroken and guilty. His name is Al Stokely. [laughing] And I thought he was a sweetie.
LaToya: He is. It’s interesting because, despite the way Angel’s behaving this episode, this is, like, an old school "help the helpless" scene, in this episode.
Morgan: Yeah. And I think it’s—it’s this kind of shock to the system for him, as he’s seeing all of the fallout of this spell he did, without, you know, thinking it could possibly hurt anyone. A spell that he got from an evil place and, you know, therefore had evil consequences, surprise, surprise. And Al is like, "This is all my fault," and Angel says, "No. No, it isn’t." You know? ‘Cause it’s his. And that seems to really, like, finally be somewhat of a wakeup call for him, in a good way.
LaToya: You know, again, poor Al. But you know what time it is, right?
Morgan: Yeah, baby.
LaToya: Fuck Watch time!
NOTES: [FUCK WATCH jingle plays] Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing Fuck Watch!
LaToya: So Morgan, you gonna fuck Al, right?
Morgan: 100%. [LaToya laughs] That—yeah, 100%. I was truly like, who the hell am I gonna—this whole episode, I was like, am I just, like, gonna say Justine to be a troll? [LaToya laughs] And I was like, I don’t know…
LaToya: Kristin would personally fire you from the podcast if you said Justine.
NOTES: [both laugh]
Morgan: And then Al came along.
Kristin: [simultaneously] It’s true. I would. [laughter] That is correct. You would be fired. Also, nobody asked me, but I’m picking Sahjhan. [LaToya laughs] He is newly corporeal and I will take him, thank you. [LaToya laughs]
Morgan: You have picked Sahjhan before, I think. [laughter]
Kristin: [laughing] I have? Have I really?
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: [laughing, simultaneously] I think you have. [laughter]
Morgan: Jeez, Kristin.
Kristin: Wow.
Morgan: Someone’s got a crush!
LaToya: [simultaneously] [crosstalk] a season-long Fuck Watch with Sahjhan. [laughs]
Kristin: I’m just like, Sahjhan, just give me Sahjhan. I will take Sahjhan for the rest of their life, now that we know they use—they use they/them pronouns.
LaToya: [laughing] 100%, you’ve chosen Sahjhan before.
Kristin: Okay, well, then I—but I chose Sahjhan when they were not corporeal.
LaToya: Yeah.
Kristin: And so, I’m choosing corporeal Sahjhan. Okay, get me outta here. Continue with your Fuck Watch, please. [laughter]
Morgan: As I was saying, Al Stokely. A lovely gentleman. A kind American. A lovely—lovely, sweet boy. I—yeah, I felt for him.
LaToya: Aww.
Morgan: He’s my Fuck Watch. Like, to—something good should happen to him. I’ll try to be that something. [laughs]
LaToya: Aw! Mine’s Lilah. She’s a hot bitch.
Morgan: Hell yes!
LaToya: She’s a hot, evil bitch who is making terrible decisions for her career. [both laugh] And I love it. I love to see—
Morgan: Perfect.
LaToya: The mess she is creating. She’s a fucking fool! [both laugh] [FUCK WATCH jingle plays] Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing Fuck Watch!
Morgan: Our next scene takes place at Sahjhan’s lair. Justine walks around and, like, remembers fondly all—
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: Like, Holtz stabbing her and, like, treating her like shit and being awful to her. To which I write in my notes, perhaps insensitively, "Seek treatment." [both laugh]
LaToya: Yeah, my note is literally, "Why is she having fond memories of abuse?"
Morgan: Buddy, you need to get out of—you need to get some help, friend. [laughs]
LaToya: [laughing] And she does not.
Morgan: Yeah, I don’t even like Justine and I’m still like, babe, you can’t live like this. Like, you need help. [both laugh] So Fred and Gunn come in and they’re like, "Where’s Wes?" Justine has kind of, like, figured—like, you know, pieced some stuff together and is like, "Your friend’s innocent. And I slit his throat."
LaToya: But she’s also, like, I guess, in shock. She’s like, "All he wanted was that kid to punish Angel, Holtz." I’m like, he didn’t—and she’s like, "He lied." I’m like, no, he said that every scene.
Morgan: Every single scene, he was like, "Hi, I’m Holtz, I’m here for revenge on Angel and no other things." [laughs] Like…
LaToya: [laughs] I don’t think he was leading her on.
Morgan: [laughs] You knew it was a snake before you picked it up. Like, truly. I don’t understand.
LaToya: Every single scene. [both laugh] "I’m going to kill Angelus."
Morgan: "And take his son!" [both laughing]
LaToya: What did he lie to her about?
Morgan: Quiet coyote, don’t speak, open your ears, Justine. [both laugh]
LaToya: We feel no sympathy for this woman.
Morgan: I feel bad, ‘cause it’s like, objectively, on paper, I want to feel bad for Jus—if you told me what had happened to Justine. I would be like, you know, this grieving person, manipulated and forced to become a soldier in a war that was not hers. I would feel very bad. But then, you know, you spend some time with Justine. [both laugh] Aw, man. Aw, man. Silly stuff. So Fred punches her in the face, which rules.
LaToya: It’s awesome. Yeah, my notes are, "And then she keeps trying to fight Gunn. Poorly." [laughs] She’s so bad at this! What was Holtz training them to do? Just be like, suicide bombers? ‘Cause like, they all suck.
Morgan: Yeah, I don’t think he did a really great job. He got what he wanted, but, you know, by the skin of his teeth. So Gunn’s like, "Hey, take us to Wes. He better be alive." But before Justine can do that, Sahjhan appears and he’s, like, ready for a real fight. ‘Cause he is very jazzed to be corporeal once again. He throws Justine across the room, [laughs] which is wild. Some Looney Tunes stuff.
LaToya: He is, yeah, very powerful and now you know why they made him non-corporeal.
Morgan: Yeah. ‘Cause he was a big deal. So Angel shows up, Justine sneaks out. Angel tries to make a deal with Sahjhan. He’s like, "Hey, you’re corporeal. All I want is my kid back from Quor'toth so just, like, open the portal and I’ll let you go." And Sahjhan’s like, "I actually can’t do that. Like, I specifically picked Quor'toth ‘cause it was something I could only do once." Then he admits that that is not his only prank. He went around in time and rewrote the prophecies to read "the father will kill the son." And he’s like, "Yeah, Connor is my real enemy. Like, Connor was fated to kill me."
LaToya: You shoulda worried when the baby became his nemesis, suddenly. [both laugh]
Morgan: So then we have a big fight. Gunn can, like, get hit by Sahjhan once and then he’s down for a long time—
LaToya: Yeah…
Morgan: So he’s not super helpful in this battle. Fred throws some fire in his face. And Angel is really the only one who can do anything that seems to hurt him at all. And then Justine shows up and she’s got the urn and she sucks him back into it. And Sahjhan says—his immortal last words before being imprisoned in the urn, "No. Don’t do that. [LaToya laughs] No!" [laughs]
LaToya: "No, don’t do that." So good.
Morgan: And Justine’s like, "Hey, Wes is at the park by his house. Ahh, my bad." [laughs]
LaToya: Again, what are we supposed to feel about Justine after this episode?
Morgan: I mean, I think we are supposed to feel sorry for her. But I, um…famously don’t. [both laugh] We go to the park.
LaToya: This scene and the next one, where it’s like, well, you know what, it seems like Angel still cares about Wesley. We’re gonna be okay.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: God, and meanwhile, I’m going, [muttering] it’s fine, I’m fine, it’s—rocking back and forth on my couch. Angel, like, realizes he almost got Fred and Gunn killed. He, like, is reckoning with that, which, like, thank you. Good. Lorne reminds him, he’s like, "Look, I think you have to acknowledge, like, Sahjhan and Lilah’s plan would have had you kill your son. And that didn’t happen, which is good. You know, you and Wes both did the best you could with the information you had."
LaToya: Mmhmm. Yeah, and Angel doing the best he could. Like, he was missing a lot of information that Wesley had.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: You know, some information that could have been possibly helpful, but also could have been a big issue—
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: If he also proved Wesley wrong, so you know.
Morgan: Because I wonder, like, if he had—while Connor was still, you know, safe and in our dimension—if he had told Angel this. You know, we woulda called Cordy, gotten her back, and tried to figure something out, right? Like, and maybe we could have done it. But also, who knows how he would have reacted to that? Like—
LaToya: And yeah, we also said Wesley should have maybe called Cordy.
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: Someone should have called Cordy. It doesn’t matter if Wesley had told Angel or not. [both laugh] Cordy should have been called for this specific reason.
Morgan: Fully agree. So Lorne says… [Clip from episode plays]
Lorne: You know, maybe the way to start forgiving yourself is by starting to forgive him.
Morgan: And I think that’s an important piece of this, is that Angel is not just angry with Wes—like, all of this is manifesting as anger at Wes, and he is angry at Wes. But he’s also really angry at himself for losing his son and for not being able to protect him and save him. And I think that’s an important piece of all of this to acknowledge. And Lorne is just…an emotionally intelligent king and I love him.
LaToya: Agreed.
Morgan: So then the phone rings. Wes has been found!
Both: Yay!
Morgan: Angel arrives. Gunn and Fred are really excited to see him and they’re like, "Hey, like, this is good. Like, you’re here. He’s okay. His trachea’s all messed up so he can’t talk." Angel’s like, "Is he asking for me?" And they’re like, "No, no, but you know, I’m sure he’ll be happy to see you."
LaToya: [laughing] God. This final scene, I will say also—much like the neck slashing—this also traumatized me.
Morgan: Of course it did. It traumatized me and I’m an adult. [both laugh] So he goes into Wes’s hospital room. We see Wes there. He’s bandaged up. He’s—well, he’s sleeping. He wakes up when Angel comes in. And Angel says, "Look, I get that this was really hard for you and that you were in a really tough position." [Clip from episode plays]
Angel: You thought I was gonna turn evil and kill my son. I didn’t. It’s important you know that. This isn’t Angelus talking, it’s me, Angel. You know that, right?
Morgan: "I’m gonna kill you." [LaToya laughs] And then he grabs the pillow and just tries to smother him to death and just screams at him.
LaToya: The way he’s like, "Just to be clear. Not Angelus, this is Angel. I am clear-headed. Here we go, time to die, Wesley Wyndham-Pryce."
Morgan: Holy shit. This is…horrific. He’s like—
LaToya: Yeah, again, child me, scared senseless at Angel trying to murder Wesley in his hospital bed.
Morgan: Yeah, it is, um…we don’t have kids, so I don’t know what I’d do if, you know, my kid was sent to the hell dimension. I’m assuming I wouldn’t be happy.
LaToya: What would you do if I kidnapped your kid, [both laughing] got my throat slashed and the baby kidnapped from me? Sent to a hell dimension?
Morgan: I’d probably tell you, this is just like Angel Season 3. [both laugh]
LaToya: You’re forgiven.
Morgan: It’s the exact words I’d say to you. [both laugh] Unreal. He just screams at him. He’s like, "You’re gonna die, you bastard. Like, you’re a dead man. I’m never forgiving you, you took my son." Like, he’s just…unhinged. We see out in the waiting room, like, [laughing] Gunn and Fred were, like, cuddling and smiling, like, ahh, it’s all gonna be okay. And then they hear the commotion and are like, uh-oh. And all these orderlies have to come in to pull Angel, like, off of Wes. And we end the episode just on Wes gasping for air, just, like, looking horrified. As if—it’s like, as if things couldn’t get worse for him. [laughs]
LaToya: As Angel tells him he’s dead. Even calls him "Pryce," that was—the last name.
Morgan: Yes. That was—that was chilling. [laughs]
LaToya: Which I believe was an adlib by Boreanaz.
Morgan: Ooh. Very good. Yeah. It’s so depersonalizing. Yeah, this—this messed me up, yeah.
LaToya: Yeah. Angel is not afraid to go there.
Morgan: Mmhmm. Nothing about this is good. [laughs]
LaToya: Speaking of things that aren’t good. Here, let’s choose The WB episode Angel should watch. [DUBBA-DUBBA-WB jingle plays] Angel is a vampire Does he even like TV? "I think he'll like The WB." They got that hot teen drama To ease the pain and trauma And here's the episode that he Needs to see (aw yeah!)
LaToya: This episode of television is Charmed, Season 3, Episode 10, We All Scream for Ice Cream. This is an episode all about—
Morgan: [laughing] Why?
LaToya: [laughing] I’m sorry.
Morgan: In the year of our lord 2021, you bring up We All Scream for Ice Cream. [both laugh]
LaToya: This is the episode where Prue has to learn about forgiveness as well, while facing an evil ice cream man. [laughs] Known as the Nothing. [laughs] I’m gonna have to redo this not crying laughing. [both laugh] It’s just a stupid episode! So the episode that, you know, Angel can learn from this week—you know, forgiveness is a big part of this episode—
Morgan: Of course.
LaToya: You know, titled Forgiving.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: It is Charmed, Season 3, Episode 10. [starts laughing] Stop looking at me. Charmed, Season 3, Episode 10, We All Scream…for Ice Cream. Eldest Halliwell sister, Prue, learns about forgiving her deadbeat father for some reason. And there’s an evil ice cream man. And that’s that. In this episode of television, someone forgives someone who doesn’t deserve to be forgiven, ‘cause again, he just abandoned his children—
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: When their mom died, it was a whole thing.
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: Prue had a chip on her shoulder about that. That’s, like, the one thing Prue was allowed to have a chip on her shoulder about.
Morgan: [laughing] The one explainable chip. The one valid chip.
LaToya: And she’s not even allowed to have it ‘cause they’re like, you gotta forgive this bum. [both laugh] Whereas Angel doesn’t forgive Wesley and you see how that works out. So.
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: And I mean, as we all know, the Oh, What a Night promo, you have the Boreanaz and the Shannon Doherty interaction.
Morgan: Ooh.
LaToya: The Prue and the Angel, so it’s just—that crossover right there.
Morgan: That’s perfect. Yeah, we already know there’s an inherent chemistry there. [both laugh]
LaToya: When David Boreanaz is saying—based on what his lips seem to be saying—"This is bullshit." [Morgan laughs] That is the best part of their little mini-arc in the promo, is that whatever he is saying to her, it looks like he is saying, "This is bullshit." And that probably is what he’s saying to her. [both laugh]
Morgan: And he’s wrong, ‘cause every moment of that is iconic and necessary and will live on. Like, I hope that if aliens are out there and they have to see one thing that we’ve made as a society, it’s the Oh, What a Night WB promo. So that they can know that, sure, we’re not perfect. But we contain multitudes and you know, ultimately we are worth it. [both laugh]
LaToya: [laughing] Multitudes. That’s what that shows. [DUBBA-DUBBA-WB jingle plays] Angel is a vampire Does he even like TV? "I think he'll like The WB." They got that hot teen drama To ease the pain and trauma And here's the episode that he Needs to see (aw yeah!)
Morgan: You can find us on social media if you so wish. We are on Twitter and Instagram, @AngelOnTopCast. If you go to angelontop.com, it’ll take you directly to our Patreon, where you can find some bonus content and ad-free episodes from us, which is fun. And it’s a fun way to support us, if you’d like to do that. And if you want to find me on social media, I’m @LorganMutich. LaToya, where can the people find you?
LaToya: No one should find me after the Charmed episode I recommended. [both laugh]
Morgan: Everyone should find you because of the Charmed episode you recommended. This has been way less painful, talking to you about this episode, than I thought it was gonna be. So I just wanna say thank you.
LaToya: You’re welcome, and of course, we ended it like complete fools, so.
Morgan: Classic us. Look, just like Justine was on brand, we are on brand. [both laugh] [Angel On Top theme plays]