Angel On Top
Episode 3.05: Fredless
[CHIME]
LaToya: Welcome back to Angel On Top, a podcast where we watch and discuss every episode of Angel, one by one, spoiler free, in tandem with Buffering the Vampire Slayer. I'm your host, LaToya Ferguson, and this week we're watching Angel Season 3, Episode 5, Fredless. And joining me as cohost is writer and former Angel On Top cohost, Brittany Ashley. Fredless was written by Mere Smith and directed by… Marita Grabiak? It aired on The WB on October 22nd, 2001. This is the one where Fred's parents come all the way from Texas and make every Whedonverse character really sad. [laughs]
NOTES: [Angel On Top theme plays]
LaToya: So I'm gonna start this episode, real quick, Britt, by alienating our audience. [laughs]
Brittany: Please. [laughs]
LaToya: Um, this is gonna be—
Brittany: It's something I'm very used to. [laughs]
LaToya: Yes. Of c—you know this well. I'm gonna do a bit that will be a shoutout to every AMPire Diaries listener. And Pearl Jam fans will hate it. Probably Angel On Top listeners will hate it, but I will just say. [sings in a deep voice to the tune of "Jeremy" by Pearl Jam] "When a Fred spoke in… class today." [laughs]
Brittany: [sings tune]
LaToya: "When a Fred spoke in… class. [Brittany continues singing tune] When a Fred spoke in… class."
Brittany: [sings] "Today!"
LaToya: [laughs] And that's that. Brittany!
Brittany: It's me. Uh, it feels so good to be back. It's like wrapping myself up in a nice, warm, heated blanket, but it's no longer my blanket, but it still feels nice. So do you like this episode?
LaToya: I… love this episode, actually. This is the first episode of Angel I ever watched.
Brittany: Oh, wow! Holy shit.
LaToya: Yeah. So I officially had started watching live Buffy in Season 6. But I had seen some, like, reruns in Season 5. So I'm like, I guess I should probably start watching Angel. And like, I saw a little bit of the Season 3 premiere, but—like, maybe like, the cold open. But like, nothing past that. And then this was, like, the first episode I really sat and down and watched.
Brittany: Hell yeah. Yeah, this is a—I really like this one. It reminds me, obviously, of Family, the Buffy episode.
LaToya: Yeah.
Brittany: It's very much like, the test to see if someone is really a part of the, like, inner circle—
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Brittany: Of the cast. And there's almost like a false… villain. Like, you—the whole time, you're just, like, waiting to see—
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Brittany: If these parents are actually evil. Like, maybe they're robots like Ted—
LaToya: Yeah.
Brittany: Or maybe they're, like, you know, actors who've been paid or some shit. Like, you're wondering what the deal is, like, if they work for Wolfram & Hart. But the tragedy of the whole episode is that they—that the characters that we know and love don't have a family the way that Fred does. And that's kind of the actual conflict of the episode, is just trauma. [laughs]
LaToya: It uses real Buffyverse knowledge of how television works against you, basically. It's like, we've set up—
Brittany: Totally.
LaToya: This is what happens when these kind of characters show up. So they're playing with those expectations the entire time.
Brittany: Yes.
LaToya: Which is very smart.
Brittany: Super smart.
LaToya: So I was a weird kid, obviously. That's why I'm hosting this podcast. Like, my favorite shows were The Practice and Ally McBeal. And my mother forced me to watch The WB to make me normal. [both laugh] And this episode actually—I recall vividly—again, like, really my first real episode of Angel had the advisory at the beginning, which is like, "this is recommended for The WB's teen and adult audience." Which, I don't understand why there's an advisory for this—for this particular episode of television. There must have been for, like, other episodes of, like, Angel. Like, this—I don't recall them, but I specifically recall them for this episode. And I'm just like, what is bad to watch in this episode? [laughs]
Brittany: Yeah. This one wasn't like a particularly violent episode. And there wasn't, like, sex or anything. It just—yeah, this—it seems like this was maybe the least damning episode, in terms of parental advisory.
LaToya: I think of every—literally every episode of Season 3, this is probably the most acceptable to watch. [laughs]
Brittany: Yeah, like, the most, like, wholesome.
LaToya: Right?
Brittany: Yes.
LaToya: Ah.
Brittany: I mean, it starts with inventory.
LaToya: Inv  entory. [laughs] So are we ready to get into it?
Brittany: We're ready to get into it.
LaToya: Previously on Angel the TV show, we have Fred, who is missing and found in Pylea. And she has PTSD and Angel is saving her. "Handsome man, save me from the monsters!" I'm not going to do the accent. Don't expect me to do the accent. [Brittany laughs] She loves tacos. And also, the Host, this is what he does—we're still calling him the Host. We're three seasons in, we're still calling him the Host. His name is Lorne. Gunn's gang shoots up Caritas, oh no! And then we have a knife at Wes's throat. [laughs]
Brittany: Yeah. So much happened. Truly.
LaToya: [laughs] Wes is upset with Cordy's weapon organizational skills. A lot of Season 3 so far has been these domestic dummies, basically. It's just a lot of hotel upkeep, even when it comes to the weapons. And this is where we get Wes's "the purpose of an inventory" [laughs] speech.
Brittany: Yeah. It also feels kind of like the—Wes trying to, like, take the reins on Angel Investigations. 'Cause there's obviously, like, that struggle for power of like, who is the boss? Is it Wes or Angel?
LaToya: Yeah.
Brittany: And I feel like he's trying to—you know, like, even if it doesn't actually do anything—just trying to, like, you know, like, rearrange the office so that it feels like his own. And get a handle on the inventory so that he is—he knows more than Angel does.
LaToya: Yeah, it keeps going on because—so in Heartthrob, Angel did complain about everything being all out of sorts. So they're finally addressing that situation.
Brittany: But also, a Previously On was that Buffy is alive.
LaToya: She is. She's alive!
Brittany: She was dead. Again. But now she's alive.
LaToya: We have Fred asking, "What time is it?" [laughs] And Fred has apparently been asking "what time is it?" multiple times, like a child. But… which is how they treat her, in a way, but like, they're meaner to her than they would be a child, I think. [laughs]
Brittany: [laughs] Especially Cordelia.
LaToya: Yeah, especially Cordelia. But I actually love that by the end of the episode, like, Cordelia's the one who misses her the most. [laughs]
Brittany: Totally. Yeah.
LaToya: Yeah.
Brittany: It is her, like, showing her cards a little more than usual. I think that Cordelia for sure would have bullied Fred in high school.
LaToya: She would have. There would have been plenty of fanfic about it.
Brittany: Yeah. [both laugh]
LaToya: Brittany, how do you feel about Fred, actually?
Brittany: Oh—
LaToya: Now that we can, like, really get into it. 'Cause we couldn't in Season 2.
Brittany: I love Fred. She's such like a—she, like, fills in this void of wholesomeness that needs to be there. You know what I mean? Like, she's just so incredibly smart. She's so kind, she's so… funny in, like, her own weird, dorky way. Like, yeah, I really enjoy Fred. And I think that she becomes, like, a perfect ingredient to their loaf.
LaToya: Mm. I think—rewatching this episode, 'cause again, this is an episode I really love. And I'm sure it's probably not the case for a lot of people. 'Cause this was my first episode, obviously. I'm, like, realizing now that I have to, like, really think about it, that like, Fred has all the makings of, like, that new introduction of a character who's, like, basically the Cousin Oliver. 'Cause like, this is three seasons in. Like, who the fuck is this chick? [laughs]
Brittany: Yeah. I mean, I don't enjoy the, like, the—I mean, I understand why it's there. Like, the her being kind of like, obsessed with Angel. Like, I understand why she is—
LaToya: We all would! As we see often—
Brittany: Exactly.
LaToya: Like, we would all be in the same position—[laughs]
Brittany: We'd all be bi for Boreanaz. But I think once that ends—if it does, who can say! I think—
LaToya: I think we—I think we can say that, like, this is the actual end, right?
Brittany: Okay, good. Yeah, it ends. Yeah.
LaToya: Like, this is like—this is the conclusion. Like, she paints over the thing, we're good.
Brittany: She paints over the picture of her and Angel on horseback. [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah.
Brittany: But I—yeah. Once that ends and she stops putting him on a pedestal, and then it—then I think she really starts to take the reins on, like, what her place is in the group. And that's when I—I honestly, like, forgot how little-kid-esque Fred is in the beginning.
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Brittany: Because of—'cause my impression of her is, you know, like, some of the later seasons. So—
LaToya: Yeah. Amy Acker's arguably the best actor of the entire Buffyverse. Like, I've seen enough of Amy Acker's work to know how great of an actress she is. So I'm just like, well, I'm fine with this because she is—she is that fucking good.
NOTES: [laughs]
Brittany: Yeah, I mean, she really, like, reminds me of Alyson Hannigan. Like, I think that they have similar skill sets and I think that they can operate in similar functions. And I think that they both—the way that they can act and the way that they can, like, shift into a feeling really well is very similar to me.
LaToya: [laughing] She walks—she's worried that Angel's gonna get back with that girl with the goofy name. And here's where I make my shout—my one shoutout to a heterosexual man, my good friend, Chris Barbosa. Who—in college, we would always watch the Angel DVDs. And a man and a woman can be friends, When Harry Met Sally. [Brittany laughs] And we would always just laugh at the "Well, Fred," line. [both laugh] So in the previous episode, Fred accepted that Angel will never be the guy for her. But you know… you still have feelings for someone, even when you accept it, you know?
Brittany: Yeah, you can't just like, turn it off. And obviously, when he—when he, you know, invites her for ice cream, she obviously can't turn off her feelings. [both laugh] That just accelerated them.
LaToya: Boreanaz, this season. Boreanaz, this season. He's looking good.
Brittany: He is. And he's like—I feel like he's, like, getting into, like, his—I think he's really finding his, like, comedic senses as well in this season.
LaToya: The wardrobe is great for him. Like, he literally, like, looks good in that. And he gets to do both, like, [seriously] "I'm Angel." But also like, the comedic stuff this season. Like, this is the perfect balance for everything for him.
Brittany: Yes. I would have to agree. How did you feel about Cordelia and Wes's impression?
LaToya: So again, this was my first episode of Angel, having seen a few episodes of Buffy, obviously, before this. And I loved i t when it aired. I'm like, okay, I know everything I need to know about this situation. Which is correct, honestly.
Brittany: Yeah. But the one thing that I was kinda like, miffed about was obviously one, they don't know what happened in I Will Remember You. So it is, uh… you know, it's—I feel like whenever—
LaToya: Yeah—
Brittany: They talk about Buffy, they only are like, "ugh, Buffy! She's gonna, like, turn our boss into, like, a hell beast again." [LaToya laughs] They don't actually see the situation with all the complexity that it encompasses. But it's also, like, wild that we don't ever really get to see, like, Cordelia or Wes's take—or like, emotional response to when Buffy was dead, right?
LaToya: Yeah, it's just like, Cordy saying she's alive and that's it. We don't—it's the one that I miss of—like, I wish we could have, is just to see—not just, you know, how Wesley and Cordy really feel about Buffy being alive. But like, the whole Scooby gang seeing how Angel Investigations, like, runs. And just seeing—seeing how Cordelia and Wesley have advanced in their lives, honestly. That's, like, the one thing I wish I could see.
Brittany: Yeah, because last time they saw them, they were like, sucking face in the library. [LaToya laughs] Or like, dancing at prom.
LaToya: But even—like, Cordelia—I think they could believe Cordelia became a badass. I don't know that they could believe that Wesley became a badass.
Brittany: I don't think anyone could believe that he became a badass, unless they literally saw it. But Angel walks in on this, and he sees it. "So is it time for ice cream?"
LaToya: Boreanaz—again, I understand why Fred is the way she is. Because the way Boreanaz is looking at her when he's like, "Who wants ice cream?" [laughs] is the sweetest thing in the entire world.
Brittany: It really is, but it's also, like, clearly… like, if they ever did date, that would be the weirdest fucking dynamic ever. And it would make me feel so uncomfortable. [LaToya laughs] But it's like—that's why I was really shocked that she didn't have any, like, daddy issues. Because to me, I thought that it was gonna be like a—like, the way that she just, like, wants his approval and wants his attention because obviously he's in, like, a position of power. I was surprised that she didn't really seem to have much, like, parental trauma. [laughs]
LaToya: 'Cause it's all hero worship—
Brittany: Yeah, that's true.
LaToya: After her five years of trauma. [laughs] It's—
Brittany: Alright, alright, fine. [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah, she—her thing's not a daddy issues thing. It's just trauma. [laughs]
Brittany: Yeah. Sometimes I mix them up. The being stuck in a cave for five years and an absent father, I get those mixed up. [laughs]
LaToya: Brittany, do you wanna talk about your daddy issues real quick? [both laugh]
Brittany: I only have mommy issues.
LaToya: Aww. [both laugh] Make me sad! But yeah, they're in the sewer and I love—Angel the TV show makes sewers seem so fucking cool. There's a big-ass fan. I love it.
Brittany: Yeah. Sewers don't—I doubt they're ever this clean. I mean, Fred seems to think it's very… homey. And very cozy. She actually—
LaToya: Maybe I should live in a sewer. Fred's right.
Brittany: [laughs] Yeah.
LaToya: I should move to a sewer, I don't have to deal with rent issues.
Brittany: But they spot some—some little crystals that is apparently the Durslar… Durslar lair? [pronouncing it slightly different] Durslar? Durslar. We'll never know.
LaToya: I think it's Durslar, I think you're getting Durslar.
Brittany: There's no way we can know. [both laugh]
LaToya: It's not a real word, so.
Brittany: Then, he sends Fred back. And it's just him alone. And then we see some, like, praying mantis-looking thing.
LaToya: And then the theme hits, and then—I have to apparently sing this now. [laughs] [sings to the Angel theme] "Angel the TV show is good, I—"
Both: [singing] Really love it. Angel the TV show! Is good! I love… Angel the TV show! Angel the TV show! Angel the TV show! Angel the TV, the TV show!
NOTES: [high-pitched] I really [laughter]
LaToya: Love… Angel the TV show! Angel, I love it.
Brittany: That's really good. [both laugh] That's really good. Almost too good.
LaToya: So, um, after that, if you don't let me do episodes for Season 4 and beyond, um, you're racist. [both laugh] And this is where we return to Wesley. "You know, back in my days as a rogue demon hunter." [laughs]
Brittany: Like, what days?
LaToya: Two to three days as a rogue demon hunter. We saw the episode.
NOTES: [laughs]
Brittany: I really love the misdirects of thinking that we're gonna get a vision, but then it's something completely different.
LaToya: They full-on play the vision score. [laughs] I'm like, you bastards.
Brittany: Yes.
LaToya: I love how much—like, they're having a lot of fun in Season 3, I gotta say.
Brittany: They really are. And this little, like, spring-loaded decapitation device. I love the role it plays—
LaToya: Or toaster. [laughs]
Brittany: In this. Yeah, I love the role that it plays in this episode, because it's, like—it's just so clear that, like, they do know Fred and they have a grasp of who she is and what her skill set is. It's just, she doesn't understand it yet or she doesn't understand her power just yet.
LaToya: Mmm. Chekhov's toaster. [Brittany laughs] Yeah, I love that—so Gunn's trying to force Cordy to have a vision. And she's like, what the fuck! And then when it seems like she might be having a vision, Wes is like, yes! Yes! [both laugh] As I noted in these past episodes, they've not had a paid case yet in this season.
NOTES: [laughs]
Brittany: Yeah, I don't know how they're—you know, like—you know how there's, like, some friends you have that, like, haven't had a job in a really long time and you're like, how are you paying rent? That's kinda how I feel about my friends at Angel Investigations. [both laugh]
LaToya: Yes.
Brittany: So yeah, so two laidback country folk come in. And they obviously assume—you know, the team obviously assumes it's for their services. But they're like, "No, we hired a different detective and they tracked her down here."
LaToya: New clients, Roger and Trish. They say they're sorry to barge in on their arsenal here. [laughs] But they're here for their missing daughter. And Gunn and them are ready to be cool demon detectives. He even goes on about vampires, Gunn does, and it turns out they're Fred's parents. And Fred's parents are played by Gary Grubbs and Jennifer Griffin. Gary Grubbs fucking rules. He was on The OC as the Bullet, and I love him as the Bullet, and that's good. He was also on Will and Grace and he's been in a bunch of things. And like, if you see Gary Grubbs, you know Gary Grubbs, basically. He's one of—he's, like, one of those "hey, it's that guys."
Brittany: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And Jennifer Griffin was in a show I really love, Banshee, as a despicable character. 'Cause a lot of characters in Banshee were despicable characters. She's also in The Lying Game, another show I love with despicable characters, but in a different way from Banshee. [laughs]
Brittany: She also has that look, like, the—like, the rich, uptight white lady look? But then she kind of proves herself to be a very, like, accepting, down to earth gal.
LaToya: She rules it up, basically.
Brittany: Yeah.
LaToya: And then Fred finally arrives, like, from like the sewer basement entrance. And then she sees her family. And she runs. It makes sense that Angel Investigations wouldn't think to return Fred to her family. [laughs] Because these are people without family—
Brittany: [simultaneously] Yeah, it doesn't occur to them.
LaToya: Slash bad family lives, yeah, yeah, yeah. So Cordy immediately back-pedals on the whole monster and vampire things, [laughing] saying they're LA gumshoe detectives, like… [both laugh] to which I wrote in my notes, "These dummies and their lies." [both laugh]
Brittany: "You brought a prop from your movie!" when Angel walks in with the Durslar head.
LaToya: [laughs] And to be fair, Angel does go along with it in a way that Lorne later does not.
Brittany: Yeah!
LaToya: 'Cause he's so—he is so pissed at them. [laughs]
Brittany: Well, I also—well, we'll get to that. But I had some thoughts on that as well.
LaToya: Fred apparently sent them a letter just to say she's okay. No address, and Gunn continues, for the rest of the episode, [laughing] to dwell on the fact that there was no address on this letter. Like, "we could figure that out too." No, you couldn't. You guys are bad at this. [laughs]
Brittany: The thing that really made me laugh was when they're like, "yeah, Fred's up in her room." And they go up there and there's just, like, a half-eaten ice cream cone on the ground. [both laugh]
LaToya: Aw.
Brittany: Like, just lying there, like she was an abducted toddler in the middle of a delicious snack. [laughs] It's like, she couldn't—
LaToya: Yeah.
Brittany: Like, she couldn't just throw that in the garbage can. It just—it showed a lack of caring for the floors of the hotel, in my opinion.
LaToya: Everything looks the worst for both sides of this situation, really. [both laugh] Yeah, 'cause like, Fred tries to wipe down her wall so her parents don't see, basically. But that doesn't work so she's just like, fuck it, drops the ice cream. She could have taken the ice cream with her, but whatever.
Brittany: [simultaneously] Yeah, we're not gonna—yeah. [laughs]
LaToya: She wasn't gonna eat the ice cream, right? [laughs]
Brittany: They need—yeah, they need a sign that Fred's been here. The ice cream is still cold.
LaToya: Fucking Gary Grubbs saying, "Aw, son, your prop is dripping!" [laughs]
Brittany: Yeah. [laughs]
LaToya: Aw, Fred has parents. 'Cause again, in the Buffyverse, you don't expect someone to have parents, especially not good parents. [laughs] The deception, basically, is the fact that, oh wait, no, they're just normal people looking for their normal daughter, and it's really sweet.
Brittany: Yeah, and it kind of, like, also—yeah, like, the way that it plays with the audience's expectations, too. It's also like a really funny reflection of being like, oh wow, why do I assume that someone's parents loving and supporting their child is, like, weird? Or like, not something that would normally happen? [laughs]
LaToya: [laughing] Right.
Brittany: You know what I mean?
LaToya: Fred all alone on the streets of LA, which…
Brittany: But she's—you know, she's like, terrified of everything, understandably so. She only—she doesn't go out into the world at all by herself. So this is like—
LaToya: Yeah.
Brittany: A very terrifying thing for her. But the place she does know where to go to… is… [pronounces it wrong] Carnitas. [laughs]
LaToya: [laughs] Carnitas! For old time's sake.
Brittany: For old time's sake, I had to get it wrong. Obviously, it hasn't been cleaned up since the incident.
LaToya: Ah. The incident. But yeah, before we do get to Fred and Lorne, I just wanna say real quick. We do have an insert from Shallow Angel, which as we know, is my favorite Angel. Even more than Old Man Angel. To which, Cordy is like—she can't believe that Fred has snuck off. She's like, "woof, sneaking off, right? [laughs] Fred can barely tie her shoes without seeing Mister Oh, You're My Big Fat Hero around." To which Angel quietly says, "You think I'm fat?" [both laugh]
Brittany: He also, like, doesn't say it to anyone in particular. He's kinda just like, to himself, which is—yeah, it's very funny.
LaToya: Ah. Old Man Angel and Shallow Angel, those are my favorite Angels—
Brittany: Yeah.
LaToya: And we get them back to back.
Brittany: The curmudgeony Angel and yeah, the Angel that's, like, very obsessed with his appearance are both extremely fun. Row, row, row your boat. You know what I'm saying?
LaToya: [laughs] This is how we learn that Lorne smokes.
Brittany: He gave me that vibe. You know, it's the early 2000s, who didn't smoke?
LaToya: It's LA, people are smoking all around. Not me. I'll never smoke, everyone. Just so you know, I am—I say no to smoking and drugs! You'll never worry about me, being a drug person. [both laugh]
Brittany: Like, Caritas also, like, gives me the vibe—like, I feel like I can smell what Caritas smells like. And it definitely is a smoking bar.
LaToya: Yeah. Like, I don't think I ever thought about it, but like, it's early 2000s. Of course it's a smoking bar. [laughs]
Brittany: Yeah. But Fred has come here because she needs help from him. And it's interesting because I don't necessarily understand how his advice is applicable, if that makes any sense. How she hasn't run far enough.
LaToya: Because he's talking about her trauma, because he won't just go out and say it, when she's talking about her parents. [laughs]
Brittany: Oh. That makes sense.
LaToya: I love that Amy Acker does have an imperfection, [laughing] and it is her singing.
Brittany: Yeah. [laughs] It's her only imperfection.
LaToya: [laughs] Lorne's literally depressed and he has a point, like, no one ever comes to check on him. Because—they fucked up his place and no one came to help. Which is a… come on, guys!
Brittany: Yeah. That—yeah, they should have definitely at least helped clean it up. I mean, they use him and don't pay him. Like, he is like a—he's a freelancer.
NOTES: [laughs]
LaToya: But this is actually kinda like a Buffy situation with, like, Amber Benson, where like, she's not a series regular and Andy Hallett's not a series regular. And we're all like, what the fuck? [laughs]
Brittany: Yeah. So Angel goes back down to the sewer, because he remember—he was like, "oh yeah, Fred really wanted to build a condo down here. [laughs] So I'm gonna check this out." But, um—
LaToya: Pave paradise and put up a condo in a sewer. [laughs]
Brittany: Exactly. She's not there. However, praying mantis thingy is still there.
LaToya: And this is not a Teacher's Pet situation, oh no.
Brittany: It's sure not. And then Cordelia is bonding with Fred's mom. And she reveals that she—so Fred's mom is a school bus driver. And Cordelia reveals that she's never ridden in a school bus. Which, one. I don't know how that's possible with, like, field trips and stuff. But two, she does obviously—that does track for, like, the true popular girl vibe who never had to ride the bus because she was always getting rides from, like, hot upper classmen and shit.
LaToya: Did she always drive her, like, Corvette to the field trips?
Brittany: Her Queen C.
LaToya: Yeah. Did she—
Brittany: Yeah, I'm sure she did, I'm sure she was able to be like, "I have a doctor's note. I can't be in this gross school bus."
LaToya: Should we rewatch Inca Mummy Girl right now and find out? [laughs]
Brittany: Yeah, and see. Yeah, and see if they just completely retconned her. [LaToya laughs] She was on a school bus.
LaToya: And Roger asks—which—Fred's dad asks, "What exactly does Fred do for you people?" 'Cause she's a physicist, so—[laughs]
Brittany: [laughing] Yeah.
LaToya: An understandable question.
Brittany: An understandable question, for sure.
LaToya: And Gunn—Gunn's suggestion for where Fred could be, by the way, is good. He's like, we should look up—
Brittany: It's a very—yeah.
LaToya: "We should look up the local taco stands." That makes sense. Like, a good thing about Fred is that we know she loves tacos so much. [laughs]
Brittany: Yeah. That's, like, one of the very few things we know of, like, where she would like to be.
LaToya: Let's write in our Shanshu prophecies that Gunn knows where Fred would typically be, 'cause Gunn cares about Fred.
Brittany: 'Cause Gunn listens to what Fred says.
LaToya: Finally, Wesley has the good question of—a detective should ask at the beginning of all of this. Which is, "Where would Fred go to for help? For guidance?"
Brittany: How did you feel about—so when they get to Caritas. How did you feel about, like, the—the Lorne hostility towards Gunn?
LaToya: I'm glad that, as much as there was an issue with that episode, they didn't just ignore that it existed and Gunn had to deal with the consequences of that.
Brittany: Yeah. There was something really interesting about this scene too, with like, they—so obviously, like, out of everyone, Lorne is, like, clearly the most visually different. Because he is a de—he is a green demon, and—
LaToya: He literally looks like the devil. [laughs]
Brittany: Yeah. And so, you know, like, Wes is trying to be like—trying to be like, "These are Fred's parents. They're from the country," to be like, hey, they might say some weird shit to you. It kind of, like, felt—this scene kind of felt coded in, like, a—I don't know. It kinda like reminded me of, like, a "hey, you're about to meet these people who are gonna be kinda homophobic. But they, like, don't mean it." And so like, when they bring up—
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Brittany: His eyeliner—like, the thing about, like, "yeah, we don't get a lot of guys who wear eyeliner. At least not for long." It felt like, weirdly ominous and it's like, is it because they move? [laughs] Like, where do they go?
LaToya: [laughs] It's so weird, because actually—so the first part of it, I love. Which is like, Wes is being, like, such a Wes, where he's like, "Lorne, I'd like you to meet Fred's parents, Mr. and Mrs. Burkle. They're visiting, from the country." And I love that Roger's, like, doing a sarcastic, "Yeah, you'll have to forgive us hicks in Texas." And I love that part.
Brittany: Mmhmm.
LaToya: But then, like, I feel like they go—'cause again, it's 2001. You're gonna get bad gay jokes that, like, don't hold up. I'm just like—when he's like, "Yeah, we don't get a lot of guys who wear eyeliner, not for long," I'm like, 'cause—is there gonna be, like, a gay bashing happening? Like, no! No, we don't want that—the first part of that was good. Where you're like, yes, people from the country aren't, like, fucking idiots. That's okay. That's great, this is a good thing—like, a subversion. And then the other one's like, yeah, we attack people who are different. No.
NOTES: [laughs]
Brittany: Yeah.
LaToya: We don't want that.
Brittany: Yeah, that's what, like—and I feel like that's what made—like, when they're trying to make Lorne go along with, like, "Yeah and like, you know, because you're—you make movies together." And he's like, "No." Like, I—like, I feel like it was Lorne being like, I've worked long and hard to battle through my own internalized phobias. I'm not gonna pretend I'm not who I am just to, like, appease this guy from Texas in my own bar that I pay for.
LaToya: He's—he's—
Brittany: Like, it just very much felt like that… experience.
LaToya: He's—right after what they did to his bar, honestly.
Brittany: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Like, Lorne doesn't have to play along, because like, [laughs] fuck them.
Brittany: Yeah. Another interesting thing we learn about Lorne is that his heart is in his left butt cheek.
LaToya: We might have known that from the Pylea episodes.
Brittany: Goddamnit! [both laugh] Well, it's the first time I ever really grasped it. So for—it was the first time I learned it.
LaToya: [simultaneously] I think they—I think they insult Cordelia for her heart being in her chest, actually. [both laugh]
Brittany: Damn.
LaToya: Fucking freak. Fucking cow freak. [both laugh]
NOTES: [AD BREAK]
Brittany: So the interesting thing about the train station that Fred's at is it's actually just the hotel lobby, redressed.
LaToya: [laughs] Yes, it is! Union—
Brittany: And not very well.
LaToya: The smallest Union station that's ever exist [sic]. Because it's clearly the hotel lobby, redressed. [laughs]
Brittany: Like, so clearly. Like, they really didn't—like, what was the budget for this set? Like, five dollars? It doesn't make any sense why they couldn't change it at all.
LaToya: The budget on this episode was all for the bug creatures and, like, the weird framerate situation they were doing to make them seem cool. [laughs]
Brittany: Yeah, and to get Gary Grubbs. [both laugh]
LaToya: Yeah—
Brittany: He had a very high day rate.
LaToya: This—was this—this probably was post-Will and Grace. Let me double check, because yeah, [laughing] then that would have been like, oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, this is all for Gary Grubbs.
Brittany: We spent all the budget on Gary.
LaToya: Yeah, this is like, right after Will and Grace. [laughs] His arc on that. When I interviewed Charisma for Slayerfest, we talked a lot about the budget. And the budget for Angel was pretty high, actually, and like, it shows. Because this was the first—one of the first shows that had—the show was filmed in widescreen. So it's not like one of those things where, with Buffy, where like, it was shot full screen and then they stretch it out to widescreen and you can see people in the background. [laughs] Like, it was—this was actually filmed widescreen starting in Season 2. Like, they spent money on this show. But like, you can tell when they ran out of money. [laughs]
Brittany: Yeah, definitely. As an audience member, you're wondering, like, okay. If her parents aren't evil, then why is she running away from them? And then when she reunites with them—I mean, you get, like, a very sad answer of why she didn't want to see them or why she couldn't see them.
LaToya: I cried [laughs] during this episode, rewatching this. 'Cause I haven't rewatched it in a while and just, like, even knowing what was gonna happen. Once it happened, I just started sobbing, during the reunion.
Brittany: Yeah, like, she has so much unaddressed trauma that you see in moments, but for the most part—
LaToya: Yeah.
Brittany: A lot of it is played for humor. And so this is the first time that both the show and Fred as the character—
LaToya: Yeah.
Brittany: Is really coming to terms with the fact that, like, she went through, like, hell. Like, this was a scary thing.
LaToya: Five years of trauma is real. And like, I've been, like, upset with the show, obviously, these past few episodes every time they make a joke or they—like, they ignore her. I'm like, why are—why aren't you really dealing with this?
Brittany: Yeah.
LaToya: But like, here we finally deal with it. 'Cause—like, even—basically, the fact is that Fred is even trying to not deal with it—
Brittany: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Is what it is.
NOTES: [Clip from episode plays]
Fred: [crying] It was five years and—so lost. And at night, I would… I was all by myself and you weren't there! [sobs]
Roger: Fred, I don't understand.
Fred: [crying] I got lost! I got lost and they did terrible things to me. But—but it was just a storybook! It was just a story with monsters, not real. Not in the world, but… but if you're here and you see me, then… then it's real!
LaToya: Jesus Christ.
Brittany: Sometimes when trauma happens, your brain will literally shove it away into a drawer that you can't open, because it would be too painful to deal with it. And so that, in a way, is what she has done. And then seeing her parents—yeah, it is like a—it's confirmation that everything that she went through was something that actually happened. And she now has to deal with that, which she doesn't want to, 'cause who wants to? That's why so many people don't go to therapy, 'cause they don't want to deal with trauma and moving past it.
LaToya: [sings] "I don't wanna deal… [Brittany laughs] with my trauma, please don't make me deal!"
Brittany: [sings] "With my trauma…"
LaToya: [simultaneously, sings] "'Cause my heart can't [Brittany laughs] take it any more!" [laughs] Real quick, I have to sing—um, we were supposed to do Kristin Corner at Lorne, back at Caritas, but we didn't do it. So, Kristin. Please talk about Lorne. Talk about those pimentos and the olives. Do it to 'em.
Brittany: [laughs] Sorry, Kristin's Corner. [LaToya laughs]
NOTES: [KRISTIN'S CORNER jingle plays] Kristin's Corner! Kristin's Corner! It's all Riley sucks and what the fuck And horny is hot Kristin's Corner is the place For very deep thoughts
Kristin: Oh, hi. Thank you so much for remembering that I have a corner here named Kristin's Corner. So happy to be with you all. Listen. You wanna get back to Brittany and LaToya because how fun are the two of them talking about this television show. But I would like to play a sound clip—a little sound clip. 'Cause I have the power to do that. Let's hear a question a question that Lorne asks Angel. He asks this question to distract Angel, but I'm here to answer.
NOTES: [Clip from episode plays]
Lorne: And another thing. How, uh… how do they get the pimentos in the olives, huh? There's a mystery for ya. Yeah, do they stuff each one by hand? 'Cause I mean, that seems a little time consuming. Or do you think they have a little pimento stuffing machine?
Kristin: Lorne, that is a perfect question for this random-ass segment called Kristin's Corner. And I will tell you. Up until the early 1960s, pimentos—which are peppers. I'm gonna get into that in a second, you just hang tight. Pimentos were sliced and they were stuffed into olives by hand. Now, this information is from an article on Mental Floss, and [laughing] the article says, "stuffed into olives by hand, presumably by patient workers with long, taper-y fingers." So I just want everybody to take a moment, look down at your own fingers. Do you think you have fingers that are long and tapery enough [laughing] to fit a pimento in an olive? Okay, great. That was our interactive moment of the segment. Now I would like to tell you that in 1962, a company in Spain introduced the first automatic olive-stuffing machine. That company—Sadrym, I believe is the name of it—is the largest manufacturer of the olive-stuffing machine today. Now listen. This pimento-stuffing machine, this olive-stuffing machine, it has to be very precisely calibrated. "First, it cuts"—I'm reading from the article now—"a plug the size of the pit in one end of the olive and pushes the pit out using an X-shaped punch on the opposite end of the fruit." Olives are fruits! Who knew! "Then the pitted olive moves to the next station, where a strip of pimento is cut and injected into the cavity." Wow. These Kristin Corners are just getting sexier by the minute. So now you know, Lorne. That's how a pimento gets into an olive. Not by hand any more, but if you travel back in time to a time before 1962, you can look for the tapery-fingered olive stuffers. [laughs] I had a big plan about telling you about, like, the heat of chili peppers and then, like, tying it into the episode. But I've just had way too much fun, by myself in my recording closet, with this Kristin's Corner to even go any further. So, um, I think we were talking about a grand reunion at a bus station. Brittany and LaToya are gonna take you back to that moment of reunion. And as I would like to say, back to the pimen-show. [pause] Am I fired?
NOTES: [KRISTIN'S CORNER jingle plays] Kristin's Corner! Kristin's Corner! It's all Riley sucks and what the fuck And horny is hot Kristin's Corner is the place For very deep thoughts
Brittany: [sighs] It's a very sweet reunion. "You're safe now," but then of course, the, like, praying mantis thing shows up. Um—
LaToya: And then the frame rate is, like, going outta control! [laughs]
Brittany: Yeah.
LaToya: 'Cause this is how we show that it's intimidating.
Brittany: And this is also where Fred's parents learn that Angel's a vampire. The team has to breeze through that explanation really quickly.
LaToya: Okay. [laughs] So Wesley gives the explanation to what happened to Angel's face. To which Angel—Wes says, "Angel's a vampire. He has a soul, but it's a long story. I'll tell you about it if we don't end up dying." Which, um, having a soul as a vampire means nothing to a human in this world. It's just like saying—literally, you could just say, "Angel's a vampire, I'll tell you about it if we don't end up dying." That's the line. [laughs]
Brittany: Yeah.
LaToya: Like, that's what you have to say. The soul part, like, what the fuck does that mean, is what Roger should have said. [laughs]
Brittany: Yeah. I love the, [southern accent] "That's my daughter, you damn cockroach! [LaToya laughs] I'm the father of a daughter, you goddamn cockroach!"
LaToya: Roger is so much the father of a daughter, but in a good way.
Brittany: Yeah. He's like a—yeah, he's a less problematic Trevor Lockley. He's like a Hank Hill.
LaToya: I never got to talk about Trevor Lockley on this podcast. [both laugh]
Brittany: Trevor Lockley!
LaToya: What a piece of shit. [laughs] What a piece of shit!
Brittany: Yeah, Trevor Lockley sucks. So, uh, sometimes when information drops in an episode, you're like, well, you know, did we really n  eed to know that Fred's mom is a bus driver? But yeah, we did. [LaToya laughs] Because splat! [laughs]
LaToya: And then—
Brittany: Bus driver mommy kills this cockroach and it looks like the purple ooze from the Mighty Morphin Power Rangers movie.
LaToya: Ooh, Ivan Ooze?
Brittany: Mmhmm.
LaToya: [inaudible] Ivan Ooze?
Brittany: That's the kind.
LaToya: Patreon episode where we talk about the Mighty Morphin Power Rangers movie, 'cause I could do that for hours, baby. [laughs]
Brittany: Oh, same. But given how—I mean, after—obviously, after this thing dies. Given how much information Fred's parents had to learn in a very short span of time, they're very cool with everything. And they're actually pretty supportive of Fred and proud of her, even. But they've adapted very quickly, which also feels like flipping what we'd expect. Especially if you've seen the episode Family—
LaToya: [simultaneously, laughs] From the country.
Brittany: Yeah, and also the country. But also, like, it feels like a happy ending version of the Family episode of Buffy.
LaToya: Gary Grubbs, more accepting than Amy Adams. That's what we're saying here.
Brittany: Yeah. [laughs] As people. But there is this line—I think it's when Cordelia says, like, "I gotta say, this is not how I pictured it turning out." 'Cause it's just saying exactly what the audience is thinking, of like, how the episode is turning out.
LaToya: And I just wanna say that when Trish—Fred's mom—saves the day by driving a bus, as you do. She does ask, "Did I get it? [both laugh] Did I get it, y'all?" Which is a callback to the Season 3 Buffy episode, Gingerbread, by the way.
Brittany: What was the… who said that?
LaToya: Buffy says it when she [laughs] impales the fucking Hansel and Gretel demon—
Brittany: Oh my god.
LaToya: With her… you can see what I'm doing.
Brittany: Yes, I do.
LaToya: She impales it and she—like, and gets it, like, right in the throat. And she's like, "Did I get it?"
Brittany: Oh my god.
LaToya: "Did I get it?" [laughs] I love that Cordy's, like, patching up Fred. And Gunn—bless his heart.
Brittany: Bless him.
LaToya: To go real Texan and southern in general, bless his heart—who believes that the head that Angel brought is really paper mache. [laughs]
Brittany: Yeah. [laughs] A rare moment of Gunn being kind of a himbo.
LaToya: Gunn is a himbo, and that's actually what is best for him. [both laugh] Himbos are good and pure and that's what Gunn is.
Brittany: He really is.
LaToya: Yeah. And Angel was there, just like, watching them be a happy family and, like, jealous because what's a happy family? [laughs]
Brittany: So yeah, so when Fred is, like, listing off everyone's role in the team, she's like, "Yeah, Angel's the champion. Wes is the brains, Gunn's the muscle, Cordy's the heart. And… that's all, I guess." [laughs] Just—it's like, [southern accent] "I guess I don't fit in at all."
LaToya: [laughs] I—first of all, I love that you're doing a Fred impression. Should we talk about the email we got for this one specifically?
Brittany: Oh, yeah! Absolutely!
LaToya: So we a got a fan email for this particular scene. Actually, well, I need you to read this because I want you to do a British accent. [laughs]
Brittany: [quietly, British accent] "Hey, guys." [LaToya laughs] [louder] "Hey guys, I'm Izzy and I live in England. I'm 14 years old and I absolutely love your Buffy and Angel podcasts so much. This is just a quick question, but in the episode Fredless, Fred explains that Angel is the champion, Cordy's the heart, Wesley's the brains and Gunn is the muscle. So my question, what is Fred? I honestly think that she is more the heart, especially because of what happens in later seasons, but she would also be the brains. I'm just interested to know what you think she is. Izzy." Kisses, kisses, kisses?
LaToya: [laughs, claps] That was great!
Brittany: Thank you so much. Um—
LaToya: And also, thank you, Izzy.
Brittany: I think that she's like the… she's, like, the inventor. She's like the—I think she's the brains.
LaToya: Yeah, she's the brains in a different way. 'Cause, like, Wesley's the brains in terms of the mystical and supernatural. But like, she's the brains in terms of the science. But not in a way that ignores that the mystical exists, but like, she can logically explain why these things are happening too.
Brittany: Yeah. Like, Wes is, like, the—the boss. But she's the brains. So how did you feel about the, like—when Fred's dad is trying to show how accepting he is, he's like, [southern accent] "I don't care if you drink pig's blood, cow's blood or those froofy little imported beers." It kind of felt like a weird, like—
LaToya: Oh, 'cause "froofy."
Brittany: [simultaneously] Oh yeah, like, being a bloodsucking demon is the same as being a gaylord! Or worse, a woman! [LaToya laughs] It was like this paradox of, like, trying to show how accepting you are by putting—by pointing out that you're so cool with what you say you're cool with, by showing everyone how you actually feel by categorizing, like, things that are not alike. Does that make any sense?
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Brittany: Like—
LaToya: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. 'Cause—the "froofy" specifically is the thing that makes it what it is.
Brittany: Yeah. Like, [southern accent] "I don't care if you kill people or you're gay." When it's like, what?! [both laugh] Like, that it's not—like, this thing isn't accepted by other people and not worthy of it, but it's accepted by me and I'm cool with that. [laughs]
LaToya: I feel like they make it so Fred's parents are accepting and it works. They shouldn't have added the eyeliner, like, line. 'Cause I feel like that's, like, too dangerous. [laughs] Maybe don't say the eyeliner line. Like, "yeah, they don't stay for long." Like, well, that's… scary. [laughs]
Brittany: Yeah, but I feel like Lorne got—
LaToya: Their acceptance works better if you don't have that line at all. [laughs]
Brittany: Yeah. It, like—to me, it like, kind of painted, like, what Lorne got the vibe of, of like, "oh, these aren't my people. Bye! [laughs] Get out of my karaoke bar."
LaToya: [laughs] Yeah.
Brittany: But from this, you know, conversation of Fred, you know, listing off everyone's role, she decides that she wants to go home. 'Cause she thinks that she doesn't have a place.
LaToya: [simultaneously] 'Cause she doesn't think she has a role, yeah.
Brittany: Yeah. And, you know, Angel enters Fred's room when she's, like, packing up and she's feeling every feeling under the sun. And you know, she's talking about the story that's in the wallpaper. It's a fairytale, Angel's the handsome prince who saved her. And yeah, it does—it shows, like, the story that she had to tell herself in order to cope. Which, you know, that's why it makes it so much more powerful when she and the others are, like, painting over it. It's that, like—
LaToya: Mmhmm, yeah.
Brittany: Okay, this was just a story I had to tell myself, but it's not the actual one.
LaToya: Yeah.
Brittany: Like, the actual one is the real one.
LaToya: Yeah. She says, like, "Dumb old fairytales and their happily ever after…"
NOTES: [Clip from episode plays]
Fred: Now you'd think that was the end, wouldn'tcha? Dumb old fairy tales and their happily ever afters. The minute they got back to the castle, the handsome man went away again. And even though she didn't mean to, didn't want to, high up in that castle, the girl just built herself another cave. Hoping that he would save her again. But you can't save me this time. Can you?
Brittany: But yeah, Fred says her goodbyes and yeah, the, like, cute moment where Cordelia's like, "Between you and me, I'm almost a little jealous" is really sweet.
LaToya: It's necessary for what we've—like, had this season, with Cordy being—Cordelia's been the most, like, intolerable when it comes to Fred, you know.
Brittany: Yeah. Definitely. And I—you know, it could be because she has to, like, split her money more. Or because of the fact that, like—
LaToya: What money? They're not having jobs! [laughs]
Brittany: Yeah, that too. Or because of the fact that, like, Fred is so, like, dependent on Angel's attention and that's probably really annoying too. Like, there's a lot of reasons why she's kind of just… annoyed with Fred. But yeah.
LaToya: I do wonder if Cordy is worried about, like, Fred getting Angel's attention. 'Cause I feel like Angel still gives Cordy all the—like, the amount of attention she deserves, as well. [laughs] I—if anything, like, it's Wes and Gunn who are getting less attention because of Fred, and not Cordy, you know?
Brittany: True. That's very true. I think they're all kind of reflecting on the fact that they don't have this option.
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Brittany: 'Cause obviously, Gunn's sister Alonna, she's dead. She's the only other family member that, up until this point, we really knew. And you know, the friends that he had, that he would go, you know, demon-hunting with, that has been cut off as of recently. So—
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Brittany: Angel Investigations is his only family. Cordelia's dad drove their family into the ground financially, and from what we know, she doesn't talk to them any more. Wes has, like, a very tumultuous relationship with his dad, which we—
LaToya: Oh, yeah. Wes—
Brittany: Get a little more of. And, you—Angel, you know, he killed his family. [laughing] It's all equal things.
LaToya: Yeah. [laughs] This is all equal.
Brittany: Yeah. But you know, we're still obviously—like, we're almost done with the episode. We're trying to figure out, like, okay, is there zero threat in this episode at all? And when Fred is, you know, in the cab with her parents, she realizes that those crystals that she saw in the cave are on her shirt now. And so she's like, okay, something is fucking up. And then we cut back to the hotel. The praying mantis thing is here once again. By the way, did you see the ass on that thing? [laughs]
LaToya: Are you saying it's time for Fuck Watch? [both laugh]
NOTES: [FUCK WATCH jingle plays] Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing Fuck Watch!
LaToya: As the guest, Brittany. [laughs]
Brittany: I mean, I think—
LaToya: Tell us, what's your Fuck Watch pick?
Brittany: I mean. The praying mantis just… [LaToya laughs] really… like, first of all. All they wanted was one thing. They just wanted to see their children. And—you know what I mean? Like, at all costs, this mother just wanted to protect her babies—
LaToya: Mother or father, or father.
Brittany: Oh yeah, they are genderless, that's right. But just for my own issues, I'm gonna say mother. [both laugh] And gorgeous caboose.
LaToya: Gorgeous, wow, wow, wow, wow.
Brittany: And I just think that, you know, this praying mantis didn't wanna cause any harm either. Like, it's so rare that we run into a demon or a creature that, like, really just wants to like, get by unscathed and is like, "okay, if I have to, like, fight you, fine. But I don't really want to. I just, like, want to live my own life too." Like, maybe this could be another member of Angel Investigations. [laughs]
LaToya: I am not gonna say a demon for my Fuck Watch. Which is, uh, it's gonna be Trish Burkle—
Brittany: Aww.
LaToya: Fred's mom. When she's—she's driving that bus and she goes, boom!
Brittany: Yeah.
LaToya: [laughing] "Did I get it? Did I get it, y'all?"
Brittany: She has good timing. She also, like, clearly has initiative, where she's like, nobody's gonna just tell me to get in a bus and, like, hotwire it maybe, [laughs] and then kill this thing. She, like, thought of that on her own. She's Fred's mother.
NOTES: [FUCK WATCH jingle plays] Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing Fuck Watch!
Brittany: So we're at the hotel. And you know, this demon—or this creature, they don't know how to fight it. And then all of a sudden, Fred is back. And she sets up her little toaster—
LaToya: "Guess who's back. [laughs] Back again."
Brittany: And—and she kicks it—or you know, she pushes the pedal or whatever. And then this ax comes out and it hits—it doesn't hit the praying mantis, it hits the Durslar head. And then a bunch of, you know, like, little cockroaches come out. Which is really grody.
LaToya: That's why it was an advisory, is the cockroaches. I remember watching this, like, originally and being like, oh no! [laughs] I don't like that at all!
Brittany: Yeah. Yeah, that is a grody scene. But then, you know, this gender neutral praying mantis comes up, scoops up their babies, and then just leaves. And that is the reason that this thing was following Angel around, because he brought the head back like a little dummy.
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Brittany: And the whole hive showed up to reclaim the offspring. And obviously, thematically, that's what Fred's parents did as well. It's—you know, it's all about parents, man.
LaToya: Parents, man! [both laugh] I'm just gonna say, it's time to talk about what episode of The WB—
Brittany: Hell yeah!
LaToya: Should Angel watch.
Brittany: I'm excited to hear.
NOTES: [DUBBA-DUBBA-WB jingle plays] Angel is a vampire Does he even like TV? "I think he'll like The WB." They got that hot teen drama To ease the pain and trauma And here's the episode that he Needs to see (aw yeah!)
LaToya: This isn't exactly an episode that Angel should watch. Maybe the whole team, maybe Fred. This is an episode about just, like, teamwork and how important it is. So this is the pilot for the television show and adaptation of the book series, Fearless. Which you might be thinking, well, that never aired. And that's true, actually. [Brittany laughs] So, um, Fearless, based on the book series, was ordered to series for the 2003-2004 WB television season. Produced by Jerry Bruckheimer, maybe you've heard of him.
Brittany: The Bruck?
LaToya: The Bruck. And that didn't happen. It—they decided, maybe we should—Jerry Bruckheimer himself decided, um, actually, we're gonna air it mid-season, 'cause we're not ready to air, pretty much. But just so you know, Fearless starred Rachael Leigh Cook, Eric Balfour—maybe you know from Buffy the Vampire Slayer as Jesse—
Brittany: Sure do.
LaToya: In the pilot of Buffy. Also starred Bianca Lawson, maybe you know from Buffy the Vampire Slayer.
Brittany: As Kendra. [laughs]
LaToya: Also starred a little handsome man named Ian Somerhalder.
Brittany: Oh! From AMPire Diaries. [both laugh]
LaToya: Yes, he's not from Vampire Diaries. He is from the podcast, The AMPire Diaries. He plays, on The AMPire Diaries, the character known as Damo. [both laugh] Maybe you've heard of him. But yeah, so Fearless was based on a book series about this young woman who—she was born without the fear gene. So she didn't fear things, so when WB got a hold of it, it's like, we're gonna age her up, make her an FBI agent. And she's an FBI agent without the fear gene. And that is our Rachael Leigh Cook character, Gaia. What a name! She was a lone wolf in the FBI. And you know, she had to deal with partners who depend on her, which were of course played by Eric Balfour and Bianca Lawson. And you have Ian Somerhalder playing, like, a hacker with a heart of gold. Because Ian Somerhalder, for a long time, played the most earnest characters you could ever find, despite looking like Ian Somerhalder. [laughs] Literally, that pilot is just about Gaia learning how to be part of a team and accepting people and just all working together. Which is something Fred learns here, and you know what? All of Angel Investigations could really appreciate the Fearless pilot, because being a team and learning to be a family and, you know, learning to interact to the tunes of Extraordinary by Liz Phair. [Brittany laughs] That's how you—you work as a human being. Do you want me to tell you the soundtrack to this pilot of television?
Brittany: I absolutely wanna hear that.
LaToya: Okay. As I said, Extraordinary, Liz Phair from the album Liz Phair, the best Liz Phair album. I said it. Yeah, the best one! Don't Let Me Get Me, Pink.
Brittany: [sings the tune of the song]
LaToya: Beautiful—[laughs] Beautiful, Pharrell and Snoop Dogg. [Brittany sings tune] The Wreckoning, Boomkat. The Name of the Game, The Crystal Method. In My Place, Coldplay. Seven Nation Army, The White Stripes. That's the climax of the episode, and do you wanna know how the episode closes?
Brittany: Uh…
LaToya: Can you guess, Brittany?
Brittany: Wait. Give me, like, a genre.
LaToya: Pop rock? Uh… female vocalist. 2003, 2004, female vocalist.
Brittany: I wanna say, like, Fefe Dobson. [laughs]
LaToya: Uh, that woulda been great if Fefe was in it, but she's not. The answer is, Bring Me to Life, Evanescence.
Brittany: Oh my god! [laughs]
LaToya: That's how it ends, when Gaia's like, [Bring Me to Life by Evanescence starts playing] "I'm gonna let you guys in on my secret about being… fearless." [laughs]
Brittany: [singing] "Bring me up inside, I can't wake up!" That's a real fun karaoke song to do, by the way. Wake me up, wake me up inside I can't wake up, wake me up inside Save me, call my name and save me from the dark Wake me up, bid my blood to run… [song fades out]
Brittany: So, yeah—
LaToya: [laughing] Did you like that, Brittany?
Brittany: I loved that.
LaToya: Did you like that?
Brittany: So I… I also love that Fred has decided to stay. She's decided that she, like, can't go back now, knowing what she knows. She needs to contribute. And they're all really happy. The cute thing that her parents is say is like, [southern accent] "Yeah, we were kinda hoping that you wouldn't figure that out." They're all—
LaToya: Aww!
Brittany: They're like, trying to balance their own sadness that she's not gonna be going back home with them. But they're also probably happy that they don't have to, like, rearrange her room that they [laughs] filled up with other shit.
LaToya: They did—they rented it out. It was after her fourth year—[laughs]
Brittany: Yeah.
LaToya: Being—like, having disappeared. After—four out of five years. Like, it makes sense.
Brittany: It makes sense, I get it. They gotta pay rent. And then it cuts to like a sweet moment of all of them painting the walls of her bedroom, painting over her trauma, together as a team.
LaToya: Beautiful!
Brittany: Well, this was so delightful.
LaToya: Delightful, thinking about an episode about… trauma. Like, that's what the episode is about.
Brittany: But it was also about healing trauma.
LaToya: There are technically fun episodes after this one, but they're all very much in—within the arcs of this season. Why are you showing me your guitar?
Brittany: My cat!
LaToya: Hi, cat!
Brittany: Hey! [inaudible] do you see LaToya?
LaToya: Hi! [laughs]
Brittany: She's a little sweetie pie.
LaToya: [laughs] Hey, Brittany.
Brittany: Yes.
LaToya: Where can people find you?
Brittany: People can find me @britt27ash on Instagram and Twitter. That's B-R-I-T-T-2-7… A-S-H? Yes. [LaToya laughs] And I also have a website, brittanyashleyfunny.com, where I also just recently, in October, wrote a Halloween-themed Buffy crossover with My So-Called Life script. So feel free to read that. It's on my website.
LaToya: Cool.
Brittany: Extremely cool! [laughs]
LaToya: And of course, follow us on Twitter and Instagram, @angelontopcast. Email us at angelontoppodcast@gmail.com. Go to angelontop.com, immediately! [both laugh]
Brittany: You must!
LaToya: You go to our Patreon… give me money, baby! [Brittany laughs] And just, you know, if you wanna tweet me, 'cause I don't do Instagram 'cause I am old, tweet me @lafergs. L-A-F-E-R-G-S. I will be tweeting about something. Maybe it's Ted Lasso. Maybe it's The Vampire Diaries. Maybe it's Angel. Maybe it's just about my vodka martini, because I am sad because I did not get a job I wanted. [laughs]
Brittany: It could be about anything. Who can know?
LaToya: Yeah.
Brittany: We can't say.
LaToya: Who… who… who can know? There will be a fun shift to these episodes, starting in the new year. And I think you guys will appreciate it. And if not, um, don't tell me. [Brittany laughs] Don't tell anyone. Um, if you don't like it—
Brittany: Just write it—write it in a note, burn it, and then carry on.
LaToya: And that's it. That's the show. [laughs] [Angel On Top theme plays]