Angel On Top
Episode 3.10: Dad
[CHIME]
LaToya: Welcome back to Angel on Top, a podcast where we watch and discuss every episode of Angel, one by one, spoiler free and in tandem with our archnemesis, Buffering the Vampire Slayer. I'm your co-host, LaToya Ferguson, AKA the Cordelia Chase of the Buffering verse, AKA Bones, AKA one half of the Gunn Squad, AKA Theodore K. Mullins.
Morgan: And I'm your co-host, Morgan Lutich, AKA the Winifred Burkle of the Buffering verse, AKA also Bones, AKA the other half of the Gunn Squad, AKA Frank Scabopolis.
LaToya: And this week, we’re watching Angel, Season 3, Episode 10, Dad. Dad was written by David H. Goodman and directed by Fred Keller. It aired on The WB on December 10th, 2001.
Morgan: And this is the one where Angel tries to protect his newborn son from a growing list of enemies and ends up learning he had everything—or rather everyone—he needed all along.
NOTES: [Angel On Top theme plays]
LaToya: Previously on Angel. Whoops, look at all that we have done to Holtz! Sahjhan made his deal with Holtz. He’s also noncorporeal. Expecting a bad thing to happen right about now. Let’s dissect this baby! It’s a human baby. There will be no birth. Whoops again! [both laugh] A lot has happened in these past few episodes. The one good thing, stake! The rain! Holtz lets Angel go. He will show no mercy. And we’re back!
Morgan: We are!
LaToya: It is still raining, because we’re still on the same night as the last episode. Because this is, uh—my first note of the episode, which is that this is something the show started doing, like, in—I wanna say—I guess they did it in Season 1 with the Faith stuff. But Season 2 I think really it’s noticeable, with Reprise and Epiphany, where you have, you know, Angel’s whole dark near the soul and then immediately he’s like, "I had an epiphany. I’m gonna go show up and tell everybody I had an epiphany." Oh, Angel. [Morgan laughs] And of course, the Pylea arc and it’s something that, without spoiling, will become, like, I think amazingly impressive in Season 4. And that’s just taking these arcs and making them in a place that’s such a short span of time—
Morgan: Mmm.
LaToya: That you kind of have to just, like, take a beat and be like, oh yeah, this all happened, like, in one night. [both laugh] These past four episodes.
Morgan: Gosh, time for some TV is movies discourse, right?
LaToya: Sometimes TV really can be movies. But yeah, also, the way Angel does this with storytelling too. Eventually—and I think it starts around here—makes the viewing guides. Like, the crossovers with Buffy. That’s why you need those viewing guides, basically. Because there will be long stretches where it’s like, just watch, like, eight episodes of Angel and then you can watch Buffy again. [laughing] As opposed to trading off.
Morgan: Yeah, this opens with, like, everyone running in from the rain. Cordy is, like, already like, "alright, how do we babyproof this place? Like, we gotta cover up the outlets. And honestly, that’s making me think of, like, a Hyperion hotel with all those, like, big slippy plastic things on the doorknobs, where you have to turn them. And none of the drawers will open right anymore. Like, all of that—I get a kick out of that. Gunn will hate it. [laughs]
LaToya: They’ll all hate it. [laughs]
Morgan: They really will. Cordy will—
LaToya: It won’t work for any of them.
Morgan: [laughs] Cordy will put them in and then she will regret it for forever. ‘Cause those things are a pain in the ass.
LaToya: Well, we know obviously Wes will know how to use them because he’s an expert.
Morgan: Yes, an expert on all things prenatal and postnatal. [both laugh] But Angel is, like, not into letting anybody else hold this baby. This is, like, the first time we see it. Like, she tries to take over for a second and he is not having it! [laughs]
LaToya: He is not. He is a very protective father. And also, when they arrive at the hotel, they see all the leftover carnage. ‘Cause like, Lilah had cleaners come but they just cleaned up the bodies. There’s still a bunch of blood and the cages that poor Fred thinks people—something skittered out of it. [Morgan laughs] Skittered is, of course, the word, as we know. But nope. It was for baby and mother.
Morgan: [laughs] And they are so handily labeled, so. [laughs] She is able to realize it.
LaToya: [simultaneously] Well yeah, they were labeled by your favorite character.
Morgan: Dr. F. Miss you every day, bro. [both laugh]
LaToya: Ew.
Morgan: Another group of people added to my list of angels in this episode. Dr. F up there in my heaven, along with my tusky boys, but we’ll get there. [laughs]
LaToya: [laughing] We’ll get there, ‘cause I was like, oh no. Morgan’s gonna be, like, unconsolable.
Morgan: [laughing] I was devastated.
LaToya: And then Wesley gets all British and says, "Not to mention some bastards have blown a gaping hole in the lift." [both laugh]
Morgan: Yes. And Angel’s like, oh, that was me. And then Wes immediately rolls back on it and is like, well, we never use it so it’s no big deal.
LaToya: He pulls a manpire which is like, sorry, my bastard. [both laugh]
Morgan: Oh my god. And then this is when Lorne comes in, correct?
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: And he refers to the baby as a little nipper? [both laugh] And himself as Uncle Lorne? I was like, wow! You are feeling familiar. And I think it’s cute.
LaToya: Well, yeah, he’s a house guest now. Because as he pointed out, they had his place destroyed twice. He lives there now. He’s not paying rent. You can suck it, all of you. And you know what? I think this did get cut out of the episode, but I was talking about how it kind of seems like they blew up the set of Caritas basically to force Lorne into becoming a fulltime player, like, part of the gang now.
Morgan: I remember you saying it and I can’t remember if it exists in the final version. But if it does not, it’s good to restate here. Because it does seem like it’s forcing him to really have to be in Team Angel’s orbit in a much more consistent way. Like, now it’s not about going to Lorne for help. It’s about having Lorne around and him, you know, always now being involved, because he, you know, lives under the same roof.
LaToya: Because we are TV nerds, we’ve talked about this before. Like, when you have a standing set, like Caritas, getting rid of it, like, blowing it up, setting it on fire, is a big deal. So to do that, it’s like, this isn’t something where it was just, oh, he’s gonna do some repairs on it now. Like, they destroyed that set, so basically, they had to have a reason for that, obviously. And they’re not getting rid of Lorne. They’re, like, bringing him more into the fold, because as we’ve pointed out before too, they’ve still been calling him the Host this season, after the Pylea arc, which is ridiculous.
Morgan: Yeah, I feel like once you go to someone’s homeland and have a big adventure with them, you start calling them by their real name and not, like, a weird descriptive nickname. [laughs]
LaToya: Right? Yeah.
Morgan: Yeah, and it’s interesting. I’m excited to see what they do—again, not to TV-nerd out too hard, but like, the idea that like, okay, if we’re gonna get rid of the Py—of the Caritas set, like, what’s gonna come? Like, are we gonna get—and I honestly can’t remember, not having gotten, like, further into my rewatch. So I’m excited to see what we do with the space. Either they have a new and exciting location we’re gonna be spending a lot of time in. Or they’re just gonna have more room to build, like, temporary sets so they don’t have to go on location to shoot stuff. Either way, fun for us!
LaToya: Yeah, fun for us specifically, because again, we are big old nerds. But yeah, as you noted, Angel won’t let anyone hold the baby. He won’t even let Cordy put ointment on the baby.
Morgan: Yes. And when he tries and it doesn’t go so well, Cordy makes a snarky remark about how it’s because he doesn’t have a woman’s touch. And I’m like, Cordy, come on. Pretty gender normative of you.
LaToya: And then she emphasizes that with a gay joke—as his fashion sense, which she has made before. Well, before, it wasn’t even a joke. She’s just, like—that was when she was thanking him for getting her new clothes and saying that he has, like, a gay man’s taste. [both laugh] Which was a compliment.
Morgan: Definitely a compliment, yes. [laughs] But yeah, they’re definitely—this is the beginning of us establishing that they are very much at odds about the realities of raising this child and what it will look like. Because Angel is—like, he is so clearly bonded with this kid right away. Which I mean, like, yeah, that’s his son. I was really interested. Someone on Twitter at’ed us, asking us if we—what we thought about the fact that the way—like, with Angel’s curse, his humanity, his soul wasn’t, you know, immediately ripped from him upon having the perfect moment of happiness of seeing his newborn child for the first time. And for me, I was like, oh, it’s probably because the woman he has, like, really complicated feelings for killed herself in front of him? [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah. It’s attached to so much trauma [laughs] that I think that removes the actual happiness. If it had been, you know, a quote-unquote real birth, perhaps maybe it could have triggered it. And they really should have been worried about that, but they had a lot of things on their plate, these past few episodes. The circumstances with which this baby was born, they kinda made it so he couldn’t even have a moment to have that moment of perfect happiness, you know?
Morgan: Yeah. There was a lot of—a lot of balls in the air, so to speak. Like, with Holtz, with the rain, with the death of Darla, with the, like, [laughs] just intense and overwhelming pressure that surrounds this baby’s, like, potential safety. Like, as happy as I’m sure he was to see that—that little cutie, which—what a cute baby.
LaToya: He’s very cute.
Morgan: Good TV baby. I think it—I think they solidly earned that he does not experience a moment of true and perfect happiness in that second. But I did wanna address that, ‘cause I thought that was a fun question.
LaToya: Good question, yes. You know, it’s also—it’s interesting that—obviously, Angel’s attached to this baby. But it’s interesting that even, like, Cordy is one he won’t let touch him, ‘cause you know how close he is to her. You would think she’d be the exception. But there is no exception in this case, at all.
Morgan: No, there isn’t. And I—I totally buy that. Like, I think that it’s something that’s, like, really well earned with this character. ‘Cause that’s a hard thing to share. Like, Angel has always been a person who’s not good at, like, opening up.
LaToya: Mmm.
Morgan: Like, that’s clearly his kind of, like, default reaction. And when you have a child like that—I mean, I assume. I have not had a child—that I would assume your, like, survive—your instincts to make this child safe and survive, like, must go into overdrive. And he must just not want to give the responsibility or delegate any piece of it away.
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: Especially given how much danger the kid immediately is in. But it definitely is unreasonable. [laughs]
LaToya: I mean, yeah. It’s like his emotions are heightened or something. Ridiculous.
Morgan: Oh my gosh, yeah. [laughs]
LaToya: But yeah, then we have another patented Angel reveal, where they’re—Gunn and Fred are talking about this baby dissecting blade. And Fred’s like, "Think you can throw it?" and he’s like, "I guess, why?" And it’s because there’s a demon who has come to kill them. [laughs] This gag does not get old for me, honestly, these reveals, at all.
Morgan: No, and they are so good—it’s such good, like, Fred/Gunn stuff. They’re so good and cute at it. ‘Cause they are—their dynamic is just so, like, light and airy. Like, it really is just, like, lovely and quirky and fast and poppy. And that they can kind of just like—they’re—I think it’s because I’m always lulled into the security of their conversation. So when they pivot into the joke of like, agh, we’re in danger! I’m always like, oh my gosh! But I was just, you know, entranced by how cute you guys are. [both laugh] So I think, yeah, I will never not fall for it.
LaToya: It works 100% of the time. [laughs]
Morgan: Mmhmm. They’re too cute!
LaToya: But yeah, but this is a new demon, not one of Morgan’s boys.
Morgan: Mm-mm.
LaToya: So let us confirm that, you know, demons and other people are just—they’re still after the baby because of this prophecy, man. But Angel’s more concerned with the baby, who needs a fresh diaper. So again, whoops.
Morgan: Daddy Angel. That takes us into our next scene, right, in Wes’s office. Which is a Wes and Angel scene. Wes gives Angel some shit about having sex on his desk and now having a baby on his desk.
NOTES: [Clip from episode plays] [baby cooing in background]
Wes: And seeing as how you once nearly had sex on my desk, I shouldn’t be surprised that now there’s a baby on it.
Angel: First of all, that wasn’t me. That was some guy who switched bodies with me. And second of all, can we just keep the S-E-X talk away from the baby?
Morgan: I was very happy to hear a Carpe Noctem reference, an episode that is near and dear to my heart as it is my first one with you.
LaToya: Aww.
Morgan: So I was stoked that they were talking about it. I wrote in my notes, "baby’s first ep." But I also do love that [laughs] Angel covers the baby’s ears and is like, "can you cut it out on the S-E-X talk?" And I’m like, honey. He’s not picking that up. [both laugh]
LaToya: You don’t know what a baby will learn, Morgan!
Morgan: Fair enough, fair enough.
LaToya: And old man Angel rears his beautiful head as he literally calls the diapers "newfangled."
Morgan: Newfangled. He’s used to the ones with the pins. And I’m like, how? How are you used to the ones with the pins?
LaToya: And then I decided in my mind, it was because of his little sister, who he was very close to.
Morgan: I’m even, like, wondering if they had safety pins back then. [both laugh] But I also do really deeply wanna note that Angel hands Wes a used diaper in this scene. And then Wes goes outside and throws it on the reception desk. And I take back everything that I said about Cordy and her, like, women’s touch thing, because a woman wouldn’t do that. [LaToya laughs] And I…I feel such violence inside of me—[both laugh]
LaToya: Jesus!
Morgan: When I saw that. I was like, this is disgusting! ‘Cause you know Cordelia or Fred is just gonna find that at some point and just be like, agh, god! And I just—I feel for that. [laughs]
LaToya: Agreed. And now we got an old fashioned Angel Investigations white board situation going! We got two columns, baby. Groups or individuals who we know pose a threat to the baby, and then we have those who could pose a threat once they get wind of the baby. We got an assortment of people, but I like one thing, which is that we have The Scourge on the list. Which are the Nazi demons from Season 1, who Doyle sacrificed himself to stop. It makes sense that they would want to, like, take this baby and kill it because it’s definitely an abomination to them.
Morgan: I—I love them. I love their white board. I love their, like, rinky-dink list of enemies. And that they’re just, you know, this little handful of goofballs, trying to tackle the world. I just—I love their family.
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: Like, I know—like, the reveal at the end is like, he has the—like, you know. These are the people who are gonna keep the baby safe. Like, he just has to trust in the people around him. But it’s just there to begin with. I love them. I was just—it’s so cute. They’re so charming. God, how do they do it? [both laugh]
LaToya: Morgan is just beaming, everyone, just so you know.
Morgan: But the baby is not on board and starts to cry very loudly. [laughs]
LaToya: Angel proceeds to say "ba-ba" so many times.
Morgan: Yes, he encourages the baby to take its ba-ba, as if the baby knows what that means. This little guy is hours old. [LaToya laughs] He is…look, he doesn’t know shit! [laughs] You’re not gonna have good luck. But he is determined to do it himself, and like, still is, like, blocking anyone out from helping him. Which…doesn’t seem like it’s working out too well.
LaToya: It doesn’t. None of this is working out too well for Angel, I have to say. Gunn even offers to help Angel and Angel’s still like, nope! Come on, Angel. Let him in.
Morgan: This is why you have friends.
LaToya: And then we go to your favorite character, Holtz, and Sahjhan. And your actual favorite character is the boys, as I call them. [laughs]
Morgan: Yes. This is where I write down, "my boys drinking Big Gulps" with a heart next to it. And then I also write down excitedly that they have a two-week contract. And I’m like, great, I’m gonna get to see them for so much longer. [both laugh]
LaToya: Oh, poor Morgan. This is where Morgan cries, obviously. [laughs]
Morgan: Obviously. Yet again, I’m crying on this podcast. Holtz poisons my beautiful boys.
LaToya: I did get teary-eyed at a point in this episode, just so you know. I will let you know when we get there.
Morgan: Oh my god, I can’t wait.
LaToya: Yeah. So Holtz says to Sahjhan, "Why didn’t you tell me Darla was pregnant?" He’s like, "It didn’t seem important." Come on! But Holtz actually, you know, hasn’t changed his mind. He’s like, "She got off easy." Okay!
Morgan: Yikes. But he, like, says that he doesn’t want, like, my beautiful muscly boys. He wants, like, real warriors who will really fight. So he insists that he is committed to this cause, even though, like, Sahjhan’s like, side-eyeing him a lot and being like, you sure you’re committed? ‘Cause you could have killed him and didn’t.
LaToya: I mean, he’s committed to this cause where Sahjhan even says, "We’ve got prophecies to fulfill." Holtz should say, [like car brakes] skkrrr! Rewind. We need to talk about that.
Morgan: Full record scratch. Like, what? Again, I know, as we’ve discussed, as I have been told repeatedly, vengeance is not a clearheaded state of mind.
LaToya: But in this case, Sahjhan’s clearly saying he’s a pawn.
Morgan: Yeah, and it just seems like if you’re at a point where you’re, like, zooming out and strategizing once again, maybe take in that information as well and have some thoughts about it, Holtz. This is just some advice from me, Morgan, who you don’t know. [both laugh]
LaToya: But yeah, regarding Morgan’s boys, Holtz says, [gruff whisper] "They’re soulless beasts, bred only to maim and kill!" [laughs] That’s my Holtz British accent.
Morgan: And I’m like, yeah, maybe if you only had a working relationship with them in these specific confines. Like, you saw them at the gym. These boys are sweet. They wanna get their pump on, and—
LaToya: [laughing] They’re not sweet, Morgan! That is what they are. They’re soulless beasts bred only to maim and kill! Sahjhan said that in their introduction at the gym, you just didn’t listen.
Morgan: Yeah, yeah, yeah. I bet I could change ‘em. [laughs]
LaToya: Oh no! [both laugh] But he wants to find info using this box, which is the Mac that Sahjhan has set up in his lair. [laughs] Turning on the Mac features the return of Demons, Demons, Demons website.
Morgan: I love it, very Broad City.
LaToya: Cut to Angel Investigations, also using their big old box, also using their Mac but it’s a laptop. Also, the little teddy bear and the diapers on the table. That’s cute.
Morgan: It is. But the baby is still crying.
LaToya: That’s what babies do, I’m aware.
Morgan: Yeah, I mean, not all the time, though. Like, it is an unnerving sound for a reason. When a baby’s crying, you wanna try to soothe it. And Angel is remaining unsuccessful. Lorne comes in and explains that he had the Furies put a safety spell on the place, so I guess no one can get in or out, unless they use the exit in the sewer, which has a password, which is the Pylean word for hedgehog.
LaToya: Which means something very different in English and I wish we knew, because Fred thought it was hilarious. It had to be dirty.
Morgan: It had to be dirty! And I—she’s so cute about it. And the two of them have this little, like, exchange about it. And they’re both just, like, sharing a private giggle, and it made me so happy. And I like Lorne as a member of the crew. Like, let’s—
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: Start establishing all the dynamics.
LaToya: [simultaneously] This feels right now. Like, this feels very right. But yeah, they’re also thinking of, like, more people. And possibly more ninjas, but no, there was just the one ninja. And we saw him and he did performative knife play—I’m sorry, sword play—
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And it was hot. [laughs] And sorry for Lilah’s fuckboy.
Morgan: Truly, RIP to a hunk.
LaToya: Right? There’s also apparently—
Morgan: Gone but not forgotten.
LaToya: Three different websites offering money for the baby. And Angel has Fred trace the websites, like that’s a thing she can do. But later, when she’s explaining why it’s so hard, Cordelia can translate what she’s saying to Angel. Which means she also knows, like, hacking and stuff? Which…what’s happening here? [laughs]
Morgan: Look, I guess they’re taking some, like, classes at the learning annex about computer stuff. [laughs]
LaToya: ‘Cause I didn’t even know what Fred was saying, and I’m good at computers. And Cordy’s like, this is what it means, and I’m like, I still don’t understand what you’re saying.
Morgan: I guess maybe we’re to believe that she explained it to Cordelia a while ago, so Cordelia’s therefore able to translate. Not—again—
LaToya: Although I guess Cordy has had to be, like, the hacker of the group. She’s been the computer girl of the group until now, so.
Morgan: Yeah, before Fred, before—like, Gunn’s the man on the streets. Wes is the man with the books. And Cordy is the gal with the know-how.
LaToya: [simultaneously] Cordy’s going to Demons, Demons, Demons. [both laugh]
Morgan: Yeah, she’s on the Demons, Demons, Demons boards. What is her handle for commenting?
LaToya: Bloody Becky. [both laugh]
Morgan: Bloody Becky! Ah, finally it all comes full circle. [both laugh]
LaToya: But yeah. Fred also makes—they say Fred brings up the fire bomb exception for the forcefield. She and Gunn both do that whole thing where they’re, like, saying things and they’re like, "why’d you say that?!" But like, they’re right when they do it. And just, like, accept it, everyone.
Morgan: Look, yeah, sometimes the truth isn’t palatable. Does that mean people should lie? I don’t think so. So this is also where Cordelia’s like, hey. What if we took this newborn baby to a hospital, because it needs, like, immunizations and like, tests and things like that? And Angel’s like, absolutely not. I’m angry now.
NOTES: [both laugh]
LaToya: And he tells the team to do better. It’s like, oof. And then he says—he makes it clear, "I promised his mother. No one is going to put their hands on this child, no one." And he has taken it so literally that even his friends can’t put their hands on this child.
Morgan: We are within hours of this kid’s birth. It is normal to be defensive. But it is definitely frustrating to watch, because it’s so hard, you know? Like, ‘cause we know these people are, like, fully in his corner, fully in this baby’s corner, would never do anything wrong, only want to help. So it is hard to watch.
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: At least, it was for me. Yeah.
LaToya: Yeah. We have—didn’t know that Lorne, who is here, keeps hearing a hum in the hotel. Which—
Morgan: Hmm.
LaToya: Turns out to be Gavin’s amazing surveillance. State of the art, you guys, just state of the art.
Morgan: Thank god we have those ears. Thank god we have Lorne’s perfect pitch.
LaToya: Right? And Linwood is pissed over at Wolfram & Hart, because the child wasn’t supposed to be born! [both laugh]
Morgan: And Lilah’s like, yeah, slight loophole and everything. [laughs]
LaToya: ‘Cause it was never actually born. [laughs] They say basically that, you know, maybe he’s getting paid too much, the translator. But like, they’re about to kill that translator, right?
Morgan: Oh, yeah. Poor guy. I hope they have someone else lined up, because he did seem knowledgeable. But yeah, I don’t think he’s long for this world.
LaToya: I mean, the one he was worried about, like, wanting his job, you know, he’s there.
Morgan: Yeah, he accidentally completely suggested a good replacement. [both laugh]
LaToya: But yeah, Linwood also wants the Nyazian scroll writers to work on contracts and negotiations. And you know what? Smart. We need to get into the origins of who’s writing these scrolls, because they’re all tricky bitches.
Morgan: Yeah, I would love to know. That would be very helpful. This is also where Gavin, I think, says he has a team out searching. And then he looks at Lilah and he’s like, "I’m sure you would have thought of that, given time." ‘Cause they cannot stop jockeying for position to save their lives. I…I love my messy competitive bitches.
LaToya: See, this dynamic rules. When it was just, like, Lilah versus Gavin, it was just like, no, go away, Gavin. But with Linwood there and them, like, competing right in front of him, it’s so good.
Morgan: It really is. With someone to, like, preen for and like, the immediate consequences of that dynamic and that fighting being present helps so much. Linwood says he wants to find Holtz and like, that’s their next big, like, you know, thing to do. So Lilah and Gavin kind of have their marching orders. And then Linwood talks to the baby.
NOTES: [Clip from episode plays] [baby cooing in the background]
Linwood: Now that’s a cute little baby! Yes, you are! And your daddy is a vampire with a soul. And sometimes, he reverts to a creature of pure malevolent evil who could rip your tiny throat out. Yes, he does! [chuckles]
LaToya: The best!
Morgan: [laughing] I would like to speak about this.
LaToya: His evil baby talk, which I honestly wrote in my notes, "hot."
Morgan: [laughs] Oh my god, okay, love that for you. Yeah, I love that he is talking to the baby about Angelus. And I just—like, very much shades of the mayor. The idea of softening him in a way that makes him infinitely more upsetting. It’s like, don’t mistake this man for, like, just what you see. There is also tenderness to him. But that tenderness is horrifying, because he admits, freely and as if this is not a problem at all, that the senior partners took his children from him when they were, like, too young for him to get to form a relationship with him. And he’s like, yeah, you know, c’est la vie. And that is chilling. [laughs]
LaToya: He’s like, "I like kids." And he talks about that, like, oh, okay! And he thinks it’s gonna be cute to turn up the surveillance so he can hear the baby. And it’s just screaming and they’re all like, this is bad. And he’s like, turn it down. [both laugh]
Morgan: Yeah, it’s a short-lived interest in this baby.
LaToya: He acts like it’s gonna be so cute. It’s like, the baby’s just screaming. I don’t know what you wanna hear. It’s a baby, it can’t talk, Linwood!
Morgan: Yeah. And it’s not in, like, a cooing stage yet, ‘cause it is angry.
LaToya: [laughs] Baby angy. You know what’s not angy—is actually adorable, is Angel with teddy. The baby’s teddy bear.
Morgan: Oh my god. [laughs] I was unwell. He’s—like, him with the bear, him with the lullaby. Like, Dad Angel was very much doing it for me. Like, kind of borderline piss baby, like, "I will not allow anyone to help me or touch my baby and I’m gonna do reckless shit because I feel like it" Angel. Who ended up largely being a plan.
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: I liked this. But doting kind of hapless dad, like, Three Men and a Baby, but just one vampire and a baby energy? Is good to me.
LaToya: It is. And it—besides the lullaby, there’s also him and teddy doing backup on Smokey Robinson for Lorne. Hello!
Morgan: Oh my god. When Lorne comes in and sings Smokey, I write in my notes, for this reason alone, my father must watch Angel. Because he is a big Smokey Robinson fan and like, just truly, every word Lorne was saying was things I’ve basically heard my dad say. When he was like, look, this kid doesn’t like Smokey? Like, I thought you said he had a soul. [LaToya laughs] I was…I was many emotions. I was unwell. They’re so cute.
LaToya: Yeah. So Lorne’s telling Angel that the baby can feel Angel’s anxiety. And just like, look at your kid. Just like, really look at your kid. So Angel’s, you know, looking at his kid. He’s doing funny faces. And the final one is his vamp face, which actually works to quiet his baby, which is so sweet, and that’s where I teared up.
NOTES: [laughs]
Morgan: Of course—okay, that’s a perfect moment to tear up. ‘Cause it is so lovely. I believe I had, like, my face in my hands and was staring at the screen adoringly at that moment. It is so lovely. And I love that Lorne also says, "This baby is more than a mission." Like—and I don’t think—I appreciate that because Angel is someone who’s very much, like, a directive person. And that’s not how you learn a child. You don’t, like, make it your goal—
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: To like, learn how to fix your kid’s problems and make him stop crying. You instead have to just be and like, feel what works and what doesn’t. And that—there’s—there are no shortcuts there. And there is actually really not a lot of linear movement there. Like, it’s all this weird kind of emotional intelligence that I don’t think Angel really excels at. And I do love that Lorne tells him his vibes are bad and that he doesn’t pass a vibe check. Which…[LaToya laughs] he could not.
NOTES: [laughs]
LaToya: He could not at all. But yeah. That baby loves vamp face. And I love that baby.
Morgan: Yeah. ‘Cause that baby loves him. And that’s just, like—it’s such a beautiful thing. Like, that he—like, this is his son. Like, that it has love—like, this—he, this little boy, has love for Angel and all that he is, just inherently. You know, because he’s his—good to me. Lovely to me. Now I am tearing up. [both laugh]
LaToya: Good to me like that moment I reference often, which is when Buffy kisses Angel’s bumpy face.
Morgan: Yes! [both laugh]
LaToya: Back—so in an emotionless place. We are in Wolfram & Hart’s Files and Records room. Angel is looking up Angel’s files. And our lady friend, who is, you know, heading up Files and Records is played by Stephanie Courtney. Who everyone—like, everyone—must know as Flo from the Progressive commercials.
Morgan: That is where I recognized her from. I knew you would tell me, so I just decided not to look it up, so that I could be excited on mic. Wow! Okay. Flo herself, Files and Records. And she is, like, stuck seemingly in a file cabinet labyrinth basement? And she—
LaToya: Of course she is, this is Wolfram & Hart. Of course—like, of course she is, like, duh. But also, I have to pay respect to Stephanie Courtney, because she has a prolific acting career.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Like, she was on Mad Men.
Morgan: Yeah!
LaToya: Yeah. She’s been recurring on The Goldbergs for years now. Like, she still acts but she also makes fucking bank as Flo, so.
Morgan: Dude, that Flo money. That Flo money must be amazing. If you’re listening, you’re an advertising executive and for some reason, you really want me to talk about your thing. Let me know, ‘cause I wanna get some of that Flo money.
NOTES: [laughs]
LaToya: We all want the Flo money, but I don’t even know if it’s possible. Like, no one gets that Flo money. Besides Flo!
Morgan: That’s fair. I love that Lilah is given a big old binder. And she’s like, great, this is all the Angel files. And they’re like, no, no, no, no, no. That is, like, the table of contents to all of the Angel files. Angel has 35 cabinets, dedicated just to him.
LaToya: [simultaneously] And counting, ‘cause it’s always updating.
Morgan: Mmhmm. And I love that for him.
LaToya: He is prolific, baby.
Morgan: Mmhmm. So Lilah has her work cut out for her.
LaToya: Okay, so. Here we go. [both laugh] We get a daytime scene. ‘Cause a lot of this takes place in the daytime actually, this episode. But this is, like, out and about in the daytime.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And Holtz is out and about in the daytime. And he has an obituary for a woman named Julia Cooper. Not Julie Cooper, but Julia Cooper. [both laugh] Then he is tailing some other redhead cool girl, who smokes.
Morgan: Dang, this girl’s alt. [laughs]
LaToya: She’s got a leather jacket. And you know what? She knows he’s tailing her. And I wrote in my notes, it really is weird that this is in broad daylight. But I guess it makes sense, ‘cause it makes clear that he’s not a vampire, which is an important point.
Morgan: Her name is Justine. I guess Julia was her twin and was, you know, killed by, you know, two puncture marks in her neck and an extreme loss of blood. So—
LaToya: Animal attack!
Morgan: [simultaneously] We can all do that math. [laughs] Yes. By an animal attack. And he’s like, [Holtz impression] "Come with me! I’ll help you achieve your ends!" [LaToya laughs] And she is reasonably not interested. He, like, throws her against a car and then against a brick wall. And I’m like, if this man approached me in this way, I would, like—I mean, I would break his windpipe. But you know, if I couldn’t because he was a more skilled fighter than me, I would never speak to him, ever? And I would, like—
LaToya: I would never have cool girl dialogue with him.
Morgan: Yes. I don’t think I would become his, like, you know, Girl Friday protege. Like, no thanks.
LaToya: I mean, we’ll talk more about it in their next scene. But I just wanna say, Justine is played by Laurel Holloman, best known for playing Tina on The L Word. And you know what? I know this one, I actually point it out ‘cause I know this one. Tina was with Bette, which is Jennifer Beals’ character on The L Word. That’s a thing I know.
Morgan: Hey, look, add it our list of things we know about The L Word. Number one thing, we know we will never be watching it. [LaToya laughs] Number two thing, that! [laughs]
NOTES: [KRISTIN'S CORNER jingle plays] Kristin's Corner! Kristin's Corner! It's all Riley sucks and what the fuck And horny is hot Kristin's Corner is the place For very deep thoughts
Kristin: Oh, hey. You haven’t heard from me in a while, but I just—I had to insert myself here, as somebody who has seen the first season of The L Word no less than two times, and has hosted the first season of an L Word podcast called To L and Back. Just to represent, for all of you. I’m here to say I am not a fan of Tina Kennard and I am not a fan of Justine. I find no redeeming qualities in either of these people. If you, like me, are somebody who values [laughs] the wonderful horror that is The L Word, you can just tweet at me and let me know. I will share space with you, fellow L Word people, who have seen Tina arrive on your television screens now as Justine and you’re upset all over again. I’m sorry if this is a controversial take. I’m sorry if you don’t like me, but this is my corner, so you’re just gonna have to deal with it. Also, LaToya and Morgan, I really think that you should watch at least a few select episodes of The L Word with me, your friend, Kristin.
NOTES: [KRISTIN'S CORNER jingle plays] Kristin's Corner! Kristin's Corner!
LaToya: [laughing] God, we’re just gonna get, like, hate mail, like, "why won’t you watch The L Word?" Because now the bit is too good.
Morgan: The bit—yeah, we can’t turn back on our principles. Which is sticking to a bit. [both laugh] Our next scene is in the Hyperion lobby. And Fred is having no luck tracking all of the websites. [laughs]
LaToya: And she’s very worried ‘cause Angel comes downstairs. And she’s like, oh no, we haven’t—but Cordy’s like, I’ll talk to him. And of course, Angel still won’t let anyone hold the baby. And—
Morgan: I love that Cordy and Fred are in, like, sweats. Like, they’re in their, like, "we stayed here overnight" and—
LaToya: Yeah. This is the rest of the episode attire, because again, this all just takes place in, like, one fell swoop. Cordy says, about the baby, "Look at that brow. He’s a miniature you."
Morgan: Ahh, and Angel admits to being up all night, watching him, but not in, like, a "he was crying all night" way. Just that he was up all night, watching his son sleep and like, marvelling at the miracle of new life. And that’s sweet, that is nice. Dad Angel…I love you. So Cordelia’s like, hey, what if you kinda unclenched a little bit? And like, let us hold the baby and things like that? And Angel says, I’m the only—like, I’m the only family this kid has.
LaToya: Aww.
Morgan: I have to be everything to him and everyone to him. Like, there’s no room for other people.
LaToya: [singing] ‘Cause you’re everyone to him!
Morgan: [laughs] Ugh! Yes, yes. But I—it’s really sad. And I…I know, like, again. I know this is Angel’s knee jerk reaction, but I’m just so bummed. Because I’m like, come on, these people—like, you know—they are your family. Like, this is what families do.
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: You can all take care of this baby together. And like, you can’t do it all yourself. Like, it’s just not possible.
LaToya: I mean, he didn’t ask for this, nobody ever does.
Morgan: Very true.
LaToya: But then we have Cordy with the tough love, in the scene that I think about a lot, actually.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: The scene in the courtyard. It rules.
Morgan: It’s really, really good. And she, like, does not mince words. She’s like, "You actually can’t do it all. You really can’t." And she’s like, "And you know how I know you can’t?" And she takes his hand and pulls it into the daylight and says, "What if you needed to take him to the hospital right now?" Like, and he’s just, like, sizzling and crackling in the sun. And she’s like, right. You couldn’t. Because you need other people, because there are so many things this baby’s gonna need. And you’re just not gonna be able to fulfill all of those. Like, you know, because of your vampirism but also because you’re just, like, only one person. It’s really good. She makes an excellent point. But Angel doesn’t agree.
LaToya: Yeah, and then Angel gets really gnarly and he keeps his hand out in the sun. And he’s like, "I will get him to the hospital, like, in the brightest day of the year, even if—like, he’ll get there even if I don’t. It’s like, nope. This is not the point we’re trying to make, Angel. [both laugh] And again, he storms off and she’s like, damnit.
Morgan: Yes. It is—he is being an emo little bitch. For the—for a beautiful reason, the love of his son. But it’s like, oof! He is not even close to learning the lesson everybody’s trying to teach him. [both laugh] In fact, he is getting further from it.
LaToya: He just put his hand in the sun! He is, um, not doing well. [both laugh]
Morgan: Not great, Bob. And—so he goes back inside. He has this little conversation with Lorne, who again references the humming he’s been hearing. And asks if he smells bacon? [both laugh] Or he says, "Did someone fall asleep with the curtains open?" [laughs] Lorne! No one—
LaToya: [chanting] Tight five! Tight five!
Morgan: And no one likes Lorne’s tight five, which come on, guys.
LaToya: This is why you need Caritas, because Lorne got to do his tight five every night.
Morgan: Ugh. Poor Lorne. I hope that people start laughing at his jokes soon. It’s what he deserves. [laughs]
LaToya: It is. But yeah, he gives Angel a tip. Which is like—he’s patting him on the breast pocket.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Which you know, obviously it’s revealed later. But like, me knowing at least what’s going on, I could be like, this is what he did.
Morgan: Mmhmm. Yeah. I think it’s nicely done. It’s a good—like, you know, you remember that conversation because of, like, the way they hang the lampshade on it, with Lorne’s joke and everything. Like, that’s just, like, another piece of I think good and clever writing, is when you’re going to call back to something, like, making it specifically memorable. Because I mean, you never know how closely your audience is watching TV. So the idea that like, you want to, like, call attention without calling the specific attention to it. Without like, really tipping your hand on what exactly Lorne’s doing. But remembering this moment.
LaToya: [simultaneously] Yeah, this seems like a normal Angel and Lorne scene. Yeah.
Morgan: Yeah. It’s just great. A plus. Like, everyone making this show is—like, knows what the fuck they’re doing. [both laugh]
LaToya: [sarcastically] What?!
Morgan: And it is so apparent. [laughs] Yeah, I know, incredibly scorching hot take from me, that the…all the incredibly talented upper-level writers of Angel who’ve gone on to have big careers know what they’re doing. [both laugh] This is why you come to this podcast, folks.
LaToya: But yeah, Gunn also arrives. And you know what? He took the sewer to get in—the sewer entrance—which means he had to use the password. Which means, I wanted to see that.
Morgan: Yeah, come on, what silly word did he say?
LaToya: Gunn noticed that there are—like, the vampire cult’s parked outside the hotel, as is a biker gang he’s, like, familiar with, that they do some kidnapping and extortion. And then also, some hooded cloaks, which Wesley notes are the Lilliad demons, who—they love a nice broth with the bones of human children and they’re like, let’s see if this child makes the recipe even tastier.
Morgan: They want a stew going, and that stew’s gonna be made out of Angel’s baby, which is deeply worrying.
LaToya: And also, these demons seem fucking cool ‘cause they also have, like, magic and can break the Furies’ spell. And like, their power is based on the lunar cycle, it’s gonna be the full moon so they’re gonna be super powerful. I’m like, they’re awesome!
Morgan: And the—when we get to it, their makeup is awesome and I thought their robes were beautiful. I was, I mean, you know, not into their philosophy, not into their habits, not into their diet. But I do have to say, aesthetically? Mm, I’m picking up what they’re throwing down. But we know that we have until the moon rises for the, like, spell to hold up, keeping everybody out.
LaToya: Lilah’s been reading all night and all day.
Morgan: Ugh.
LaToya: And she says, "What kind of wussy name is Liam anyway?" How dare you, ma’am.
Morgan: Excuse me. Liam was a himbo prince.
LaToya: Also, you worked with a dude named Lindsey.
Morgan: Yeah, come on! I bet she did clown on him a lot for his name. [both laugh] As well as various other things.
LaToya: [simultaneously] But we never saw it, so that’s the thing. She clowned on him for a lot of things, we just never saw her clown on him for his name. "You think Darla loves you, uhh!" [both laugh]
Morgan: Oh my god. Lilah. Again, just…I hate to love her, but I do. [both laugh] She just…I—something about her just really tickles me. And I just know I shouldn’t, but I can’t resist her.
LaToya: I hate myself for loving you, as Joan Jett said.
Morgan: Absolutely.
LaToya: But yeah, she’s trying to remember the pirate’s name. And she says "Holtz." To which, Stephanie Courtney, Files and Records, just rattles off with that Holtz information. Because she’s Files and Records. It’s her job.
Morgan: I love this. This is so fun. I love the effect when her, like—
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: When she closes her eyes and there’s, like, the card catalogue flipping. All of it’s great. It’s a perfect, super believable, great addition to, like, Wolfram & Hart and their mythology. And it’s again, nice to see. As I’d been asking before, who keeps track of all of this shit? [laughs]
LaToya: Yes, and I hinted at it and I was like, ooh, it’s gonna be very progressive and that’s how I roll.
Morgan: [laughs] So Lilah’s able to, like, understand, from what Files and Records tells her, so this guy’s, like, looking for vengeance. Great. [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah. His family massacred, nine years trying to find Angelus and Darla, 378 vampires killed in that time. Which is actually quite a lot.
Morgan: Yeah, that’s some impressive numbers. I wonder if—
LaToya: Yeah, suck it, Initiative. Suck it, Riley Finn.
Morgan: I’m—hey, I’m wondering if, like—how many is Buffy averaging in that kind of time? Like, I wonder if that would be an impressive stat even to her.
LaToya: Yeah. I actually would like to know that. I’m not gonna do—
Morgan: I know, I’m like, one day I’ll do that math.
LaToya: I’m like, I’m not gonna do this research. Like, that’s not my kind of research. But like, someone can do that.
Morgan: Please do math for us! [laughs]
LaToya: And then we have a scene that takes place 100% in a Sunnydale cemetery.
Morgan: Good god.
LaToya: I’ve seen this cemetery before. Come on!
Morgan: And like, with the—even like, the way it’s shot. Like, it is such a, you know, pastiche on Buffy. I write in my notes, Justine doing Slayer shit. And then I write, Holtz peepin’, [LaToya snorts] comma, helpin’. [both laugh]
LaToya: Why are you like this?
Morgan: I don’t know. But he is—she falls, and like, almost eats shit and he catches her. And she, you know, is unable to dust this vampire and almost dies, until Holtz saves her.
NOTES: [Clip from episode plays]
Holtz: Your life has been ruined. You can’t sleep. Instead you wander the streets, making others pay for what happened to your sister. That’s where I can help. I see your talent, and I see your hate, and I know that I can shape and hone you into an instrument of vengeance.
Justine: Sounds like fun.
Holtz: It won’t be.
Morgan: I know I’ve not been kind to Holtz. I know that maybe I’m not the fairest person to make the judgment. But I don’t buy it. I’m confused. Who would agree to such a deal? And be enticed by such a man? But, um…I’d love your thoughts.
LaToya: Well, Morgan, what are your thoughts on Justine? Before I get into my whole spiel, ‘cause this is where I get into all my notes and my theories and my research.
Morgan: I would say, you know, it’s two scenes. So it’s a little hard to judge. I would like to be charitable and believe that my opinion could change over time, as we get—like, as the actress grows into the performance and as there are more scenes, which I assume there will be. But as it stands right now—
LaToya: [laughs] It’d be hilarious if they just dropped it after this episode. Like, it didn’t work out. [both laugh]
Morgan: Yeah, never mind. I would say…not doing it for me. Like, you know, it seem—to make a Buffy comparison as strongly as they do and—like, which they just completely do, visually. I think is a complete disservice to the character. Like, it sets her up to be compared to the star of another related show that has had six years to establish herself and is, like, a fantastic and well-realized performance and written character. Like, all of that stuff. To be like, "kinda Buffy-like, huh?" and have her, like, spout off a couple quips. Like, of course she cannot be Buffy. She just has to look like diet, mean, redhead Buffy? And…just, like…
LaToya: Damn!
Morgan: That’s…like, that is not this—I would say not this actress’s fault. Like, fully a fault of the way she is set up and introduced. And so I’m hoping that I come to like this character more. But as of right now, left very little impression on me. And—
LaToya: Okay.
Morgan: No thanks!
LaToya: I will use that slam to segue into my stuff, which is that…so one thing is that I vaguely remember at the time, like, there was a fan canon that Justine was possibly, like, a Slayer potential who, like, aged out of being activated.
Morgan: Oh, cool.
LaToya: That was something people talked about. And I mean, just like, write that in your Shanshu prophecies, just—something to mull over, honestly. And I—this is the first time I thought about it in this case, particularly, like—if it’s a warped Slayer/Watcher dynamic that’s happening here. Because I thought this scene specifically felt kind of like a warped Buffy’s first slay with Merrick situation, too. So I kind of appreciated that. Like, thinking through that perspective, I think I appreciated this scene more. But also, like, the big thing with Justine, honestly—like, we have to say it. Like, this is such a Kate Lockley insert that it hurts. Because this was supposed to be Kate Lockley. And Elisabeth Röhm was unavailable because she had just booked Law and Order.
Morgan: I mean, it probably would have been more of an improvement because she has an established relationship to Angel and the show. But I don’t know how much more enjoyment I would have gotten out of it, because Kate is not my gal.
LaToya: Yes. And she’s not my gal as well, and also, I can now segue into my next point. Thank you for that. Thank you for setting me up without even knowing that. Which is that—so the issue is basically that Laurel, she has the same—like, she is the same actress type as Elisabeth Röhm. Like, she sounds the same acting tics and, I would say, issues as her.
Morgan: Mmm.
LaToya: And the thing is, they specifically cast someone as the same type instead of just, like, going for a different type completely. They’re like, well, we wanted Elisabeth so let’s just—
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: Like, cast an Elisabeth type, so that’s what they did here, clearly. Instead of going, like, a different direction when they couldn’t get her. And I think, like, a Justine or a Kate is, like—there’s a difference between these characters and, like, their quips that just don’t land, to a character like Faith, who at least has, like, a bounce to her with her quips, you know?
Morgan: Mmhmm, yes. And there is, like—I mean, there is kind of manic energy to Faith’s quips. Like, she kind of—I heard this—someone say something about Spiderman once that I really loved. That all of Spiderman’s jokes are, like, brought of this nervous anxiety that he could die at any second. So he’s like, making these jokes to make this whole experience lighter and funner and bouncier for himself. So he’s distracting himself from the fact that he is, you know, in peril. And—
LaToya: Mmhmm, and for Faith, that’s very apparent, like in Faith, Hope and Trick. Like, her introduction, it’s very apparent.
Morgan: Yeah, like, she uses humor to mask her trauma. Whereas these gals both seem—like, their humor doesn’t—for me, doesn’t seem to come from anywhere. It seems to, like, be a very writerly attempt to make them seem more fun and poppy and enjoyable than they are. And I find that neither actress so far really delivers them super well. And I don’t like to rag on people, but it just—yeah, it’s never worked for me. And I think—I like what you’re saying about the idea of a warped Slayer/Watcher dynamic. And I think that’s really cool. And I definitely—like I said before, I want Holtz to have someone to talk to who he can talk to about his emotions. And kind of like—even if he’s not talking specifically about his own emotions, he’s talking about his feelings on vengeance and like, the hatred he feels for Angel and for, you know, his prey and all of that stuff. Like, that is more what I wanted from the character. But if it’s to a character that doesn’t really feel very fully realized or very effective or very interesting, then I don’t really know if that helps me at all with him.
LaToya: I feel like this character really just tracks so much more if it is Kate. Because, like, while it seems like she possibly made peace with Angel at the end of Epiphany, like, she was still off—like, fresh off a suicide attempt. She had just lost her job. It’s not like Angel ever followed up on her and, like—or like, looked after her. Like, it’s easy to see her going down this path because it’s not like—she couldn’t just put the genie back in the bottle after knowing about, like, vampires and demons. Like, what else could she do, really?
Morgan: Yeah, and I think that’s exactly the kind of, like, murky stuff this show is good at dealing with. ‘Cause sometimes you do seem to make your peace with someone, and it doesn’t take. And I like the idea of, like—of Angel having to handle that, like, with her, and having to deal with some consequences there, like, yet again. And having her to be like, yeah, I changed my fucking mind. Because it turns out, all that shit that you did to me and that you did in general still fucking bothers me.
LaToya: Yeah, it’s like, I didn’t have a fucking epiphany. Sorry.
Morgan: Yeah, and that would be really, really valid. And I think it would have a lot to say about Angel and his, like, quest for redemption. And the way that we talked about in these previous episodes, that he knows he cannot literally right the wrongs of the past. He cannot fix each and—this, as we said, is not My Name is Earl. He is not going back and saying sorry to each person and fixing the thing. He’s just paying it forward and hoping that eventually, when it’s time to, like, test the scales and weigh his heart against the feather or whatever, it’s enough and he gets to become a real boy. But I think this would be a really nice, really messy and true, like, feeling thing they could have done. But you know, actor availability. That’s why you have to do this.
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: And as much it’s like, oh okay, that definitely makes this make a lot more sense. It has to work even if I don’t know about what’s going on behind the scenes. And so far, it doesn’t seem like it is.
LaToya: Yeah. I teased this, but while—like, Holtz is the one that doesn’t work for you, Justine is the one that doesn’t work for me, at all. [both laugh]
Morgan: So are you saying you think that I’m gonna be a big Justine stan? [both laugh]
LaToya: God, no. [both laughing] You might finally like Holtz before you like Justine.
Morgan: We shall see.
LaToya: Maybe I’d like her more if I watched The L Word, but that’s not gonna happen. I’m just, like, flipping through the Rolodex of Angel people. I’m like, what about the actress from Eternity? Like, what if she’s decided she’s gonna fucking kill vampires now, after that whole, like, psuedo Angelus experience? Like, that’d be cool.
Morgan: Bai Ling time, baby!
LaToya: [laughing] No!
Morgan: Bring her back, baby! [laughs]
LaToya: Stop trying to always bring Bai Ling back, Morgan. [both laugh] That’s Morgan’s whole thing. She loves bringin Bai Ling back.
Morgan: I love bringing star of Wild, Wild West and Crank 2, Bai Ling, back into the conversation.
LaToya: Is that streaming? ‘Cause maybe that should be a movie watch.
Morgan: I actually do think it is and we should watch it. Yep.
LaToya: We should—[laughs] we’re gonna be having the time of our lives. I don’t know about our Scoobies, but we’ll love every second of it.
Morgan: Oh, iconic. [laughs] So then we see the—our next scene is very brief and it’s, like, the Lilliad demons outside, like, chanting. They’re beginning their work. And the vampire cult—cultists and the bikers start fighting. [both laugh] So chaos is really breaking out outside Angel Investigations.
LaToya: Yeah, ‘cause they wanna know who’s gonna kill Angel Investigations first, basically. So that’s what they’re fighting over.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And Angel—[laughs] oh, Angel. And you’re—like, the plan is in motion.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: But obviously, technically we don’t know that. And Morgan especially doesn’t know that, ‘cause she doesn’t remember that. So she’s very upset. [laughs]
Morgan: I—oh my gosh! I was so angry. Angel’s like, I don’t like this plan. Like, I wanna run with the baby. And I am just…
LaToya: [singing] Running with the baby!
Morgan: So angry. And like, Gunn is pissed. And I’m like, he’s still salty about Season 2, just like me, I wrote in my notes. ‘Cause—
LaToya: I mean, they clearly—okay. So—because we’ve watched this episode and we’re now talking about it, we know that they all met in the janitor’s closet and they talked about what they were gonna do. And Angel’s like, "Gunn, you talk about when I fired you." [laughs]
Morgan: God, I love—
LaToya: [laughing] Sense memory.
Morgan: See, for me, I’m like—Gunn will be like, "yeah, I’ll talk about when you fired me and you were such a dick. And it fucking sucked and I hated you. And I hated you so much!" And Angel’s like, "Calm down!" [LaToya laughs] And Gunn’s like, "Oh. Yeah, okay, whatever, whatever." And then—really tapped into his experience.
LaToya: Fred’s like, "What happened, Charles?" and he’s like, "I’ll tell you later."
NOTES: [both laugh]
Morgan: So yeah, you’re gonna get an earful about it. ‘Cause it was not fun. [both laugh] I was late on rent that month and it sucked because someone—
LaToya: Oh no, that really depresses me. I’m upset.
Morgan: Yeah, because that was income! For him! Like, that’s what makes—it makes me mad. It was income for all of them, and that makes me so mad. ‘Cause he not only took away their, like, sense of purpose but he took away their jobs and then—
LaToya: And he wasn’t giving them unemployment, you know this.
Morgan: Yeah, and yeah, what, are they gonna file for unemployment and be like, yeah, we used to get paid out of Angel Investigations, LLC. Yeah. Sure.
LaToya: I mean, actually, he did have that set up though. So like, it probably…like, David Nabbit probably set all that—
Morgan: [simultaneously] David set that up, yeah.
LaToya: So yeah, maybe they got unemployment. But still, not enough. You know how that is.
Morgan: Yeah. Oh, I do know how that is. Maybe David got them COBRA. [both laugh] I am thinking about them—I’m thinking about David preparing for their severance.
LaToya: I really miss David.
Morgan: I miss David so much.
LaToya: The only good billionaire.
Morgan: Yeah, the only good billionaire. David is really—I loved the realities of David and like, what he would do for the group. Like, that is what they needed and I miss him. David, come back.
LaToya: [singing] David, come back!
Morgan: [laughs] Oh my god. And then, Cordelia’s like, "Hey Angel, did you hear anything I fucking said out in the courtyard?" And then Fred! Doing her part—
LaToya: [exhales] Oh.
Morgan: Says, "Angel. Don’t leave us." With her—which I of course wrote, punctuated with sad faces in my notes. [laughs] ‘Cause how could you say no to that beautiful—that beautiful little puppy dog eyed girl?
LaToya: You were gonna say punim! I knew it!
Morgan: She got a cute little punim!
LaToya: You, like, paused and you didn’t say it, but I knew you were about to say it. [both laugh]
Morgan: ‘Cause I was like—do I call—I was gonna call her an angel. And then I’m, don’t call her an angel. But then I was like, you’re like a little punim. Yeah, she’s got a cute little punim and I love her. For those listening, punim is a Yiddish word for face that I have made in—very important in my lexicon ‘cause it’s a cute little word. And I love it. [laughs] But Angel storms out like a little piss baby and I’m mad at him.
LaToya: Yeah, and Wolfram & Hart surveillance of course saw this and heard all this. They’re like, he’s running away and he’s going through the sewers! Send the alpha team! [both laugh]
Morgan: Alpha team?
LaToya: And then Linwood—Linwood has, like, gotten it in his mind that this baby’s gonna be the savior who, like, destroys all of them and like, eradicates evil. And he’s like, we gotta get that fucking baby and we gotta dissect it. And then Lilah’s like, dissection is good. When Gavin’s like—you know. Gavin says something Gavin.
Morgan: [baby talk] "Are you scared that the baby’s gonna die?" and she’s like, "No, I’m worried that you will get the baby killed before we can dissect it while it still breathes." [laughs]
LaToya: I love the—
Morgan: And then Linwood—Linwood looks at them both with heart eyes.
LaToya: I love the way things evolve from like, thinking Gavin’s—just like, come on, Gavin, why are we doing this to Daniel Dae Kim, to being like, I love this back and forth, every single time. They’re both terrible. I—they should both lose but also, it’s great. And again, hate-fuck, please.
Morgan: Please! Like, it just—for all of our benefits. But yes, I just love that Linwood is like, oh, wow, that was deliciously evil, Lilah. Like, he’s really, like, keeping a little scoreboard for the two of them, and he liked that from her. [laughs]
LaToya: And yeah, "alpha team, engage!" They’re outside the hotel. I’m like, time for more commandos to die. Like, you guys failed miserably last time.
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: And the forcefield is broken. And you know what? It’s time to Fuck Watch!
NOTES: [FUCK WATCH jingle plays] Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing Fuck Watch!
Morgan: I thought a lot about this.
LaToya: Oh, really? You thought a lot about this?
Morgan: And…and I…I think I have to bring out some big guns here. And I have to say that I would like to fuck…Daddy Angel. [laughs]
LaToya: Oh, yes! I could tell. I could tell.
Morgan: I was like, maybe I’ll pick Files and Records lady. But I’m like, no, I have to be true to my heart. I have to say, it’s Dad Angel, like, singing Smokey Robinson. Like, playing with the teddy bear, like, being sweet and soft and like, ultimately kind of letting go of his own fear and ego and worries about this thing. And like, learning to be…a functional part of this family that, like, shares the responsibility of raising this kid. Because that’s what’s gonna be best for this kid, too.
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: It’s like, all of these people have so much to give. Like, Angel’d be lucky to have his child learn and love and be accepted by Cordelia, by Gunn, by Fred, by Wes. Like, imagine that kid raised by that group of people! What a lucky baby. What an amazing kid. Like, and you see Angel start to get that and…it’s a good look on him. It’s a very cute look on him. I love it.
LaToya: It is. I very much agree. And again, Season 3 Angel is looking good!
Morgan: Yep.
LaToya: And honestly, when you said Daddy Angel, I was like, day-bow-bow, honestly. [Morgan laughs] That’s how sexy it is. [both laugh]
Morgan: Chkka-chkka!
LaToya: But I think my choice is also obvious, which is Linwood. [both laugh] Linwood’s fucking hot in this episode. [both laugh]
Morgan: Yes.
LaToya: He is so evil and everything he says, I’m just like, yes, yes, yes. Shut up, Lilah and Gavin, get out of here! [both laugh] It’s just time for me and Linwood, right on that conference table.
Morgan: Oh, love that for you. Love that for you. [laughs]
LaToya: We are just back to back fucking Linwood. [both laugh]
Morgan: First Darla, then Linwood. [both laugh] You’re taking my sloppy seconds a couple times. [both laugh]
LaToya: I had to strike, like, when it’s the right time, you know?
Morgan: Fair. Fair, fair. Yeah.
LaToya: Like, I had to go through—again, I had to go through my files and records and think, like, will I need to fuck Linwood another time this season? And I’m like, I don’t know if that’s the case. But like, here? Like, just him and talking about his children, like, welp, gave ‘em away. And like, turn it up, turn it up. And like, his final scene with Angel, I’m just like…yes.
Morgan: He’s doing good.
LaToya: I would be his trophy wife.
Morgan: I would just—I would watch Real Housewives of Los Angeles but Angel canonical Los Angeles where you’re Linwood’s wife. [LaToya laughs] And you’re like, throwing wine in monsters’ faces. Like, that’s what I want to watch. [both laugh]
LaToya: I need a quip. I need a quip for my intro. [both laugh]
Morgan: "I know where all the bodies are buried. My husband put them there."
NOTES: [both laugh] [FUCK WATCH jingle plays] Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing Fuck Watch!
LaToya: And now, it is time, because that barrier is down, baby. We are ready to battle.
Morgan: Yes.
LaToya: [laughing] We’re ready to die for Angel, the selfish bastard.
Morgan: I know. I was like, why are all of you doing this? He’s not worth it! Me, picking—like, deciding that I’ve picked Angel for my Fuck Watch but also being like, he’s not worth it! [both laugh] Like, I’m mad at him. Wes saying that he’s channeling John Wayne in Rio Bravo. I’m like, aww, that’s cute. Gunn saying he’s channeling Austin Stoker in Assault on Precinct 13, I am screaming. I am high-fiving a million angels. Assault on Precinct 13 fucking rips. Have you seen it, LaToya? You have?
LaToya: Yes.
Morgan: Ugh! I was so stoked about this pick. I loved that they high-fived. I was so happy. Cordelia immediately rained on their parade. [laughs]
LaToya: [simultaneously] Yeah, I was like, I missed them. I missed them so much in that moment. I was like, oh yeah. Remember how they’re best friends?
Morgan: I need the Charles Gunn and Wesley Wyndam-Pryce’s film podcast, now. [laughs] I need it right now. I wanna hear what they watch. I wanna hear them high-fiving over movie things. And I would like to hear Cordelia Chase, unwilling guest star, forced to talk about—
LaToya: [simultaneously] I was gonna say, like, Cordelia’s the producer but she has to, like—she’s like, I’ve not seen any of these movies. I don’t care.
Morgan: Yeah, I don’t like it, I don’t care. Your levels are off. [both laugh] This is what I want ‘cause Cordelia’s like, ugh, throw away your DVD players and get a life! And I’m like, Cordy. Movies are fun. [both laugh]
LaToya: Cinema! So the factions are fighting still, and honestly, this fight choreo was hilarious.
Morgan: Yeah, it was very goofy. I liked it a lot.
LaToya: David Boreanaz is popping out of a sewer, on the LA streets. And that’s also hilarious. And now—
Morgan: Look, when you live in Los Angeles, that’s just the kind of thing you see all the time. [laughs]
LaToya: Back before the quaran-times, I was seeing people pop out of sewers every day. All day!
Morgan: All day! [laughs]
LaToya: But yeah, now Alpha Team is chasing him.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And some factions finally get into the hotel. And then Wes has the flamethrower, ‘cause again, really—I mean, I love Vampire Diaries. But they stole so much from Buffy and Angel.
Morgan: Mmhmm, yeah. And flamethrowers are one of those things. I—oh, this is where we see the Lilliad demons take their hoods off. And they are—they have such spooky sea monster faces and—
LaToya: They’re too cool to just be, like, an extra faction. Like, come on!
Morgan: I loved the way they looked. Like, they’re so green and rubbery and it feels very, like—I’m not an expert in old school Star Trek. But it felt very, like, old school Star Trek alien to me, which I thought ruled. Yes, more of that, please. I love when they do creature design. I love when there’s practical makeup. I’m happy.
LaToya: But yeah, the remaining faction members—who have not been flame-thrown—they realize Angel took the child. And you know, so it’s a chase, baby!
Morgan: It is. I also love the second guy that Wes then has to be like—
LaToya: [laughs] [imitating vampire] "Master!"
Morgan: Ehh! Like, the little look Wes gives him before he torches him. Beautiful. I love my boy. [laughs]
LaToya: I love them. I love them all. And Angel is apparently talking to the baby, saying, "We’ll get through this."
Morgan: It’s great. I love that he’s like, action set pieces are easy. Being a dad is hard. [laughs] And I appreciate that. I wrote in my notes at this point, when I was mad at Angel, "Babe, you suck at both." Because I was so mad at him for endangering this child, and I was like, that baby does not have a carseat—I was—that really, like—
LaToya: You were—
Morgan: Gave me so much anxiety.
LaToya: I wish I could, like, not remember these things. But unfortunately, obviously, you know, I do. So I’m like, what’s Morgan gonna think? And of course, I noted the big action set pieces. I’m like, Morgan’s gonna love that ‘cause it’s so good. And it’s like—at this point, Buffy’s not really doing that. They were doing that, kind of, in Season—they were doing that in Season 5.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: So Season 4, for Angel, that makes a lot of sense. You know, just—Season 3, I’m sorry. Season 3 for Angel. It makes a lot of sense ‘cause again, this show was pretty expensive to make, and it shows. It honestly—it really shows. And every facet, really. From the monster design to this set piece.
Morgan: Having, like, a car chase is huge. Like, that is such a big thing to do, like, for TV. Like, that’s so many moving pieces. Like, literally. [laughs] It is not easy to do that, budget-wise, so it’s really impressive that they committed to it.
LaToya: I mean—
Morgan: And also, this is where I’d like to note, very—very Fast and Furious 8, Statham and a baby action sequence. [LaToya laughs] Angel and a baby action sequence. I’m…I could not deny that that intrigued me in that way.
LaToya: Of course. That of course gets you. And I mean, I’ve talked about it before just, like, when I was guesting on this podcast, even before I was a host. And I think it should always be mentioned, like…Angel was very ahead of its time in just terms of its presentation as a television show. It was, like, the first show that was in widescreen.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Like, it’s just—it’s a beautiful-looking show that still looks beautiful today. And you don’t really have to worry about, you know, crew members showing up because aspect ratio’s fucked.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Because again, it was filmed in widescreen and presented as such. And I just, like—
Morgan: Right.
LaToya: I remember watching the show live and it literally, every week, looked like you were watching a movie on The WB.
Morgan: Mmhmm. And I think that’s really true. Like, it—which is interesting that they decided to be in widescreen. Especially with the first season, which has, I think, like, so much of an old Hollywood throwback feeling, that I think they ultimately kind of stopped doing. Except for the, like, cinematic-ness of it.
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: To not use words well. It is really cool. Like, it does look, still, so good. Which a lot of stuff from this era kinda doesn’t, which is a bummer. All our bad guys, like, flee. Like, they’re like, "We hope we’ve stalled long enough." [laughs]
LaToya: Angel takes them to an abandoned mine, which again, is—it’s amazing that they—like, taking us to an abandoned mine. Like, this is what the chase scene’s leading to.
Morgan: Very impressive. Not easy to—like, big, big, big area. Lot of extras, lots of expensiveness. Angel finds himself surrounded and he says, "You want the baby? Have the baby." And he tosses it to them and I’m like, oh, okay, thank god that wasn’t a real baby. And it is the teddy bear, with a bomb.
LaToya: Oh, poor teddy! Teddy goes kaboom!
Morgan: Teddy didn’t deserve that.
LaToya: Teddy ain’t do nothing wrong.
Morgan: He didn’t do a dang thing wrong in his life. Makes me very sad. But it blows up and Angel gets away.
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: Woo!
LaToya: And it turns out, the gang has the baby and they’re at the hospital, where they should have been all along. So good.
Morgan: Yeah, and we see the first non-Angel person to hold the baby. We see it in Cordy’s arms, which is very nice. Feels right.
LaToya: Very good. And then we got Linwood enhancing over at Wolfram & Hart.
NOTES: [laughs]
Morgan: Oh, if you think I didn’t write "enhance" in all caps in my notes. I loved that. So he’s like, "magnify! A hundred times!" [both laughing]
LaToya: "Again!" That’s 200 times.
Morgan: It’s a lot of times. And so he sees Lorne handing over the note and calling out the supply closet, where there are no cameras. So it becomes clear this whole thing was a plan and a setup. Yay, we love it. I write in my notes, "Angel being a dick was an act for the cameras, thank goodness." [LaToya laughs] Gavin immediately—
LaToya: Gavin. [both laugh]
Morgan: "I didn’t believe it."
LaToya: [simultaneously] Trying to clown on Angel’s acting chops. "I didn’t believe it! [both laugh] I’m Gavin!"
Morgan: And Lilah’s like, "sure seemed like you fucking believed it." [both laugh]
LaToya: Why didn’t you tell anyone if you didn’t believe it, Gavin?
Morgan: And then Linwood’s like, you know what? This is fine. The herd has been thinned. You know, everything is still working towards our devices.
LaToya: Yeah. And Lilah, you know, has some Holtz information. And about like, how all the stuff happened 200 years ago and he’s still human, so we got some time travelling. And those damn scrolls. [both laugh] So it’s time to do some more Holtz research. So Lilah is above Gavin again, is what’s happening here. But then—
Morgan: Hell yes.
LaToya: Sirens go off. Those vampire detectors, baby!
Morgan: Yes.
LaToya: Angel’s here to see Linwood.
Morgan: And I am fanning myself. Both of our Fuck Watches, right in the same room. The—you can cut the tension with a knife. Angel walks in, he slices this guy’s face and he’s like, "My son has a cut on his cheek so now you do too." And I was like, one, hot! Two, yes! [both laugh]
LaToya: Yes and hot.
Morgan: Make him pay! [laughs]
LaToya: But don’t kill him because we love Linwood. Let him live.
Morgan: Yes, please. Well, we can’t kill Linwood ‘cause he’s the baby’s godfather!
NOTES: [both laugh]
LaToya: Ah, I love it.
Morgan: I love it. He’s like, anything that happens to my son, a scraped knee, a bruise, that happens to you now. So like, you’re gonna lay the fuck off of him. And Linwood’s like, cool, understood. [both laugh] Amazing! Good for Angel. I love it. This scene is great.
LaToya: Set up that college fund, because Angel wants the baby to go to Notre Dame, Fighting Irish, baby!
Morgan: [laughs] Ugh, what a cliche. But I’ll allow it. [both laugh]
LaToya: My next note is, all caps, "None of them are the mother!" [both laugh]
Morgan: Oh great, ‘cause my next note is, "baby good." [both laugh] So the nurse hands back the baby and is like, he pass—like, he’s got all his immunizations and his tests came back fine. And they’re—and none of the women around are the mother. But they’re like, we actually need a name for the baby? And Angel comes in. And he says that the baby’s name is Connor.
LaToya: Aww.
Morgan: [squeals] I think I teared up at this.
LaToya: Aww! [laughs]
Morgan: I was just like, that’s nice. They’re all together. Like, ‘cause finally, they’re all together and they’re not doing, like, a scheme where they have to pretend that they hate each other. Or they’re not actually on each other’s nerves. It’s just like, a nice, warm moment with the whole family. And I was just unwell.
NOTES: [laughs]
LaToya: Aw. Mr. Angel, which my mother actually said—I was about to watch this episode without realizing. She was like, "oh, hi, Mr. Angel," she said to, like, the screencap. [both laugh]
Morgan: You tell her it’s Heraldo to her. [both laugh] Heraldo Angel, a pet psychiatrist with a small practice in Pacoima. Who also fights crime.
LaToya: Oh, Fred.
Morgan: Fred. Fred, please come up with all my aliases as well.
LaToya: Again, if Wesley were around, he could have just said, his name is Liam. Because his name is Liam.
Morgan: His name is Liam—
LaToya: William, even!
Morgan: Do we think that Angel has any documents? Like, if he—
LaToya: I mean, he has fake documents because of—both David and Lilah, ‘cause of Gavin. [both laugh]
Morgan: Okay. Love it, love it, love it. And then Uncle Gunn comes in with the best stroller that a small amount of money can buy.
LaToya: Aww!
Morgan: I screamed.
LaToya: And see, they’re good, it’s good, no fighting. And also, later, Angel even compliments Gunn on the stroller, so they’re good! No one is mad at anyone.
Morgan: Yes, and it—and then my last note is, "safe, comma, home." [laughs]
LaToya: And they do the hero walk with baby Connor!
Morgan: I—that they all walked towards camera with the stoller. And it’s just like—it really is putting down the gauntlet. It’s like, this is—it kind of pitches this idea that the show is gonna completely change. That it’s going to be, like, Angel’s a dad now and that’s part of things. And they are a family now and that matters. And that is…I mean, given the way babies are treated on TV, very much as show ruiners.
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: That’s a pretty bold statement.
LaToya: I was gonna ask about what you think, in terms of jumping the shark. What do you think this is? I mean, I think it could—there’s so many ways in which this could be jumping the shark.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: I like Dad Angel. I think this is good, actually.
Morgan: I think this is good, actually. And I think that a baby’s only a show killer if you’re bad at making shows. Like, I think that—and obviously there are exceptions and things and stuff like that. But I really think that, like, you get to decide if you wanna have a baby on your show. So don’t put a baby on your show if it’s gonna make the show worse. [laughs] And I recall liking the way that they handle things. And I also think that everyone—like I said, the Angel writers know what they are doing. So as long as you are, like, writing well and treating it seriously, I think you can always make a baby fun on a show. Like, it was always good for—I think, like, Jane the Virgin does it so dang well. Like, that is a show that I definitely don’t feel like is…harmed by, like, the kids. The kids are great.
LaToya: And yeah, there are babies all around Jane the Virgin.
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: And you know what? It’s good. I think it’s time…to pick a WB episode that Angel needs to watch.
Morgan: Play the theme! [LaToya laughs] [DUBBA-DUBBA-WB jingle plays] Angel is a vampire Does he even like TV? "I think he'll like The WB." They got that hot teen drama To ease the pain and trauma And here's the episode that he Needs to see (aw yeah!)
LaToya: I’ve already chosen a Smallville episode, Ageless, [laughing] which is the exploding baby episode, written by Steven K. DeKnight. So I’m basically just gonna do it again, but with a different show, which they had their own, like, ticking time bomb baby. Which is the Birds of Prey episode—Season 1, Episode 4, Three Birds and a Baby. That you referenced Three Men and a Baby. Unrelated. [laughs]
Morgan: Perfect.
LaToya: Made it even more perfect. In this episode, Helena rescues an abandoned baby boy that she names Guy. [Morgan laughs] And brings it back to raise him. Then he rapidly ages, like this is some WandaVision shit.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And then once he’s an adult, basically, he turns out to be, like, an assassin sent to kill them.
Morgan: Uh-oh.
LaToya: And this, you know, this episode’s really all about Helena’s mistrust of people, especially men. And so she is the one who, like, really gets attached to this child, so it really sucks when he tries to kill her, you know?
Morgan: Right.
LaToya: And I mean, this episode really had a real talent for the personalization of the struggleties of people-hooded-ness!
Morgan: [laughs] Thank you.
LaToya: The WB apparently was like, let’s rapidly age babies and see what kind of killing they can do. Do you think there are more exploding babies? ‘Cause I feel like there actually are.
Morgan: I’m sure there are. I cannot think of another exploding baby, but I’m sure they exist. It’s just—it’s clearly just, like, you know, too hot an idea to not have more people rip off. [laughs]
LaToya: It’s either an exploding baby or a ninja baby. Like, it’s a rapidly-growing baby and that’s never good. I feel like Roswell might have one as well? So if so, I’m gonna add that to the list.
Morgan: I mean, you say "rapidly-growing baby" and you know I’m thinking about Renesmee and Renesmee only. [both laugh]
LaToya: I just threw a tissue at my screen ‘cause I was so upset. [both laughing]
Morgan: Fair enough.
LaToya: Ah, it’s plug time, I believe.
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: It’s about that time. Well, just gonna say, our next episode is Season 3, Episode 11, Birthday. My personal favorite episode of Angel.
Morgan: Really?! Oh, well, I’m so excited.
LaToya: It’s Cordelia’s birthday.
Morgan: Look. In my opinion, that’s a good episode premise. As we all—is she, like, a Jessica Day type about her birthday?
LaToya: Do you not remember anything about this episode?
Morgan: No, I don’t. I’m so excited.
LaToya: Wow! [both laugh] This is a—this whole episode is like, write this in your Shanshu prophecy, honestly. [both laughing] The entire episode.
Morgan: I’m so excited. Like, I knew this was—I knew Birthday was a Cordelia episode. So I’m very, very excited.
LaToya: But yeah, tell them where to find us and everything.
Morgan: If you would like to follow us on social media, you can find us on Twitter and Instagram, @AngelOnTopCast. If you would like to send us an email, which we would love to hear from you, you can write us at angelontoppodcast@gmail.com. And yeah, that is where you can find us. And can’t wait to chat with you. We also have a Patreon, which we are starting to put more content up on there. We should already have out a little episode of a kind of like, side podcast called Girls on Film. There’s an episode where I chat—
LaToya: [singing] Girls on Film.
Morgan: Yeah. Where I chat with Kristin Russo of our feuding podcast, Buffering the Vampire Slayer, about the 2003 classic, Down with Love. Which is very fun. So check that out.
LaToya: Yeah, I have a Twitter. Don’t follow me on there. Don’t talk to me, ever. Leave me alone, please. [both laugh]
Morgan: It’s @lafergs.
LaToya: Don’t—[laughs] don’t tell them!
Morgan: [laughs] She’s a great follow, but also, don’t follow her, listen to her. You can follow me, @LorganMutich, on whatever social media platform it interests you to do so. And you can also hear both of us on our Vampire Diaries podcast, The AMPire Diaries, if you’re interested.
LaToya: You can follow me on my Twitter but also, just don’t talk to me ‘cause every time I tweet something, somehow…[laughs] people don’t get that I’m doing a bit. Or they try to mansplain something to me or like—with an answer to a question I didn’t ask!
Morgan: Yeah, don’t—
LaToya: Which was the latest one, today.
Morgan: Don’t do that.
LaToya: I asked a simple question and people were like, watch this. And I’m like, I don’t need to—that’s not the question I needed answered. [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah, use your common sense internet etiquette and don’t be, you know, a silly goose.
LaToya: Just leave me alone. [both laugh] [Angel On Top theme plays]