Angel On Top
Episode 3.09: Lullaby
[CHIME]
LaToya: Welcome back to Angel On Top, a podcast where we watch and discuss every episode of Angel, one by one, spoiler free and in tandem with Buffering the Vampire Slayer. I'm your co-host, LaToya Ferguson, AKA the Cordelia Chase of the Buffering verse, AKA Bones, AKA one half of the Gunn Squad, AKA Theodore K. Mullins.
Morgan: And I'm your co-host, Morgan Lutich, AKA the Winifred Burkle of the Buffering verse, AKA also Bones, AKA one half of the Gunn Squad, AKA Frank Scabopolis.
LaToya: And this week, we are watching Angel, Season 3, Episode 9, Lullaby. Lullaby was written and directed by Tim Minear. It aired on The WB on November 19th, 2001.
Morgan: And this is the one where Team Angel tries to find a place for Darla to safely give birth to her and Angel's child. But she ends up dying in an alley instead.
NOTES: [Angel On Top theme plays]
LaToya: Alright. We have gotten through our sweeps, really—
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Because next week's episode is really, you know—is kind of the come-down. This has been ramping up. We've been on the run, baby, driving in the sun. [Morgan laughs] Looking out for number one.
Morgan: All of this is true.
LaToya: Angel's baby, here we come. [Morgan laughs] Right back where we started from, which the alley actually is.
Morgan: That's true. Yeah. I mean, they—you've really brought it full circle, much like the show has.
LaToya: [singing] Angel's baby! Angel's baby!
LaToya and Morgan: [singing] Here we come!
Morgan: Ugh, just the best song there is. This—this episode is so good, if I may.
LaToya: How much did you remember about this episode?
Morgan: I remember her dying in the alley, vividly.
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: I think I actually remembered a fair amount of the rooftop conversation they have on, like, the roof of the Hyperion. And her kind of like, saying that—like, you know, the baby's soul was, like, becoming—you know, it was actively right now kind of becoming her soul. And like, she didn't know what would happen without that. Like, I remember those feelings and how I felt when I watched that, like, very clearly, which was incredibly emotional. Like, this was really, I think, the first arc in my first watching of it—when I was, you know, like, a teenager, wanting this to be Buffy 2.0—
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: That I really, really felt very, like, close to and emotional about. Like, this one really got me. Because I just was, like, too much of a, you know, cookie cutter goodie two shoes to enjoy beige Angel or him, like, being bad. So this, I really—like, I really got and I really felt and understood, like, the hurt and the pain for. And it holds the fuck up, it is so good! What about you? How was this for you, first time and this time?
LaToya: I mean. I don't know how much I remember about the first time watching it. Obviously I was into it. This time, it worked. I mean, I—because before I even got this hosting gig, I was like, already doing an Angel rewatch. I was in Season 3, I'd already gotten past this episode. I'm like, yeah, this fucking slaps. [Morgan laughs] And again, let's go the fuck ahead and say goodbye to all you listeners.
NOTES: [both laugh] It's just me, on the road to more Angel, by myself. [both laugh]
Morgan: Baby!
LaToya: But yeah, it is great. Duh, this season is great. This little trilogy of episodes we just had have been great. Angel On Top, superior podcast to Buffering the Vampire Slayer, we're having the most fun 'cause of stuff like this, baby.
Morgan: We're having fun. Are you guys having fun? I bet not. Watch out.
LaToya: Are you having fun yet? Party Down is coming back.
Morgan: [laughs] Yeah, that will date our recording. That was today's news. I am over the moon. I do feel like I summoned this, because last night I did give a, like, five-minute extemporaneous rant about how Ken Marino and Megan Mullally are two of the funniest people that have ever existed. And the fact that they interact a lot on not one, but two shows is just a gift.
LaToya: Yes. So let's get into Lullaby. Shall we?
Morgan: Yes, please.
LaToya: Previously on Angel, basically every Darla and Angel scene that have existed in Buffy and Angel is the Previouslys. Darla seeing Angel—drunk Liam, [Morgan laughs] getting rowdy and being like, "Who is that?"
Morgan: Ooh.
LaToya: And you know, chomping on him in the alley.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: They were together 150 years, all in slow motion—
Morgan: [inaudible]
LaToya: Yeah. And then enter Holtz. And then Darla is back from the dead in Season 2. And then Darla is back again in Season 3. The Nyazian prophecies and the Tro-clan, all that fun stuff. Holtz is face to face with Angel, and we're back.
Morgan: Indeed we are. And we get their first kind of, like, big, present-day confrontation.
LaToya: Yeah. And as I was forcing Morgan to read, before this, the shooting script for this episode, this scene and just how it's good writing. I was just like—specifically, it's good writing that translates in Boreanaz's acting, who we've been praising a lot this season, and for good reason, honestly.
Morgan: Yes. He's great in this episode, and I just think, like—again, like, I mean, I hate to feel like I'm a broken record. But it is such a lived-in performance and you do feel all of the history there. Like, you feel not only all of his history with Holtz, but like, his history understanding the level of responsibility he has for his actions. Even if he now feels like a different guy, he understands that he—like, it doesn't matter to anyone else. Like, if he hurt someone while, you know, wearing this face, he hurt them, and they have no reason to treat him differently. And I—like, the sadness and like, the weariness with that, I think is really, really present. And—'cause a couple times, like, my "why don't you just, like, talk about it?" you know, response came up. And I was like, well, actually, because it does—it wouldn't make a difference. And you know, he—like, Holtz has his mind made up.
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: And like, we get that proven to us, yeah.
LaToya: And the thing is, with the Angel/Holtz thing, like, Angel can tell his, you know, Holtz stories to the gang. And you know, have them be pretty, like, fun, you know, adventures. Like, Angel has tons of stories. But then, you know, when he's away from them, he has to—when he's sitting in the dark, these are the types of things he just dwells over all the time, basically. Because they're hearing, you know, the cool action stuff.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: But he's not telling them what he did to Holtz's family. He's just not.
Morgan: That or, like, that story night at Angel Investigations got really awkward. And very somber and dour. [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah, he tells them the fun of, you know, this guy Holtz was chasing us 'cause, you know, we were bad asses, basically.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: You know, we were doing shit, but like, he's not gonna go into detail about the shit they were doing that had a vampire hunter coming to chase them across countries and continents.
Morgan: He knows he can't make up for it. Like, you do that to someone's child? That's a done deal. That's an enemy for life. There's really no redeeming that for that person. And I—like, I totally get it. And I—while—as I said off mic, Holtz is not my guy. But I fully sympathize. Like, ow. [laughs]
LaToya: So if I asked you, who are your guys? You would not say Holtz?
Morgan: [laughs] Uh, he would be low on my list of guys.
LaToya: I mean, okay, if we're saying who are your guys, and they're like, Buffy/Angel big bads. How low is he on the list from what we've seen on both Buffy and Angel?
Morgan: Pretty low. Like…
LaToya: Is he lower than Adam?
Morgan: Um, I like how weird Adam is. [LaToya laughs] Adam makes me laugh.
LaToya: Oh yeah, 'cause you like dang freaks. That's your thing. [laughs]
Morgan: I love freaks. Like, he's too normal. Like, he's just an angry hunter dad gone wrong, whereas Adam's a weird robot son. He's a large son. And I love large sons, so…[laughs]
LaToya: God. But also, if they made Holtz weird in any way, it—I don't think Holtz would work if he was weird, either. That's the thing. I don't want anything weird about Holtz, you know?
Morgan: Yes.
LaToya: Especially what they did to him.
Morgan: Oh, especially. I just, like—all of my, like, in my head Holtz solves are like, I wish he had someone on his crew he talked to a little more and there was just, like, some kind of emotion other than, like, stoic staring. And the singing didn't really work for me, [laughs] but like. Angel can't be his only good scene partner, and he kind of is. Like, the Sahjhan stuff is, like—doesn't feel emotional to me at all.
LaToya: Yeah, it's because the Sahjhan stuff is like, he's clearly being manipulated and he's ignoring it. He asks, later—is like—
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: "Is this the only thing you've kept from me?" It's like, uh, yeah, sure. Like, come on, dude. So Angel is putting, basically, the prophecy together and the confluence of events. And he thinks Holtz is the Tro-clan or the result of the Tro-clan. You know—
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: Again, these prophecies and their translations.
Morgan: Yes.
LaToya: And he—Holtz says, "For 200 years, I slept. For 200 years, I dreamt of nothing but this moment." Angel makes a Whedon crack because that's what show we're on. Not the best. And you would think in this instance, he would know not to make this crack.
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: 'Cause this is—especially since he's feeling so much, like, empathy for this guy. [laughs]
Morgan: Uh-huh. [laughs] Yeah, "explains why you look so well rested." And I'm like, jeez. And the—so this is of course Holtz's moment to be like, "You haven't changed!" [laughs]
LaToya: It's pretty funny the things that keep piling up for him to think that's nothing's changed. [laughs] It's like, oh yeah, so Darla's still around? You haven't fucking changed.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: 'Cause—it's great because, even when he learns about the soul, and the next thing is, the Darla—it's like, well, he has a soul but, you know, he's still fucking around with this one.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: "The demon bitch," as he calls her, so.
Morgan: Which he and I need to have words about that, 'cause I'll fight him.
LaToya: I mean, she is a demon bitch and you agree and that's what you love about her, though.
Morgan: Yeah, and I'm like, you say it like it's a bad thing. When in fact it is an incredibly cool and hot thing. [laughs]
LaToya: Like when David Salvatore says "gay."
Morgan: Ugh! [both laugh] That—very bad thing. Drops quite the hard G there. So I guess he—like, Holtz is dropping a hard B here. This is not, like, when Cordelia is calling her and Lilah both, like, super heinous bitches.
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: Like, this is—there's no love used with this "bitch." I didn't care for it.
NOTES: [laughs]
LaToya: [singing] This bitch, this bitch!
Morgan: [laughs] But I will say, also, like, Holtz's goons trap Angel. And I did not like seeing my husky boys from the gym be used for evil so much in this episode. It hurt me.
LaToya: Because in your mind, Sahjhan wasn't talking about how they're gonna be used for evil. He's just talking about how cool they are.
Morgan: Yeah, I'm like, these sweet guys. You know, they're for hire, but you know, they don't know what they're getting into. [laughs]
LaToya: That's the thing, they actually don't know what they're getting into. So that's—they can wash their hands of this. They are just like, "we do what you tell us, so…" There, your boys are innocent, Morgan.
Morgan: Boys innocent. You heard it here first, folks.
LaToya: God. [both laugh] Cancel Morgan.
Morgan: That's true, you should.
LaToya: Yeah, so Angel's, of course, you know, "While you were sleeping, a lot changed."
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And then…[laughs] Holtz uses holy water to be like, not so much. And this was a moment I really liked in the script, which I'm gonna bust out, because I was like, this is good—
Morgan: Oh yeah, please.
LaToya: And now I have to find it again, because I just scrolled. Yes, Holtz brings up a vial of holy water, chucks it in Angel's face, "eliciting smoking and roaring and vamping, but just for an instant. It's a kind of wobbly morph as Angel, through sheer force of will, pushes the beast within back inside."
Morgan: Good! Good stuff.
LaToya: Right?
Morgan: It's…yeah, I mean, it's—it's the core of the thing that he's—that Angel's always fighting with. Like, he cannot change his being. Like, he can do all the work that he wants, but still, part of him is a monster. And like, that part of him is, like, in his body, that part of him is also in his past. Like, there's—it's just something he has to accept and try to move on with. Which is also why I appreciate, he's like, there's no, like, making it right for what I did to you. Like, I—it's something that a lot of other heroes wouldn't do. Like, they would try to apologize and explain—
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: But he knows there's nothing to say.
LaToya: Yeah. A lot of this episode—and Darla and Angel get into it—they acknowledge the fact that yes, Angel's on a mission of redemption and his whole thing's being—like, atoning. But he knows he can't actually atone for the past, he just has to keep doing good. He's not, like, really trying to balance things on a ledger.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Like, the Shanshu prophecy and him becoming human would be great for him. But you know, he's not expecting it and he knows he can't undo the things that he's done.
Morgan: Mmhmm. Yeah, it's not like a linear, like, "go back and apologize—" it is not—
LaToya: Making amends?
Morgan: My Name is Earl. [laughs]
LaToya: But that would be pretty funny.
Morgan: [laughs] If we just change—like, apologize to each and every person.
LaToya: Can we get Boreanaz, like, in a single cam sitcom for his next thing?
Morgan: I mean, I would like that very much, yes, please. [laughs]
LaToya: I mean, it'd just—it'd be easier work for him, at least slightly. It'd still be, like, harder than a multi-cam. But like, he's been doing hour-long dramas nonstop for decades, at this point.
Morgan: Yeah. He could maybe use something a little lighter, a little quicker.
NOTES: [laughs]
LaToya: Boreanaz, I will write this for you.
Morgan: Yeah, please.
LaToya: I will write a sitcom. [laughs] That's how much I want it for you. I hope you don't mind there not being any good jokes. Or jokes at all.
Morgan: Not true, you will write good jokes for Boreanaz. [both laugh]
LaToya: Thanks.
Morgan: Most of them will be like, oh no, I spilled a bunch of water on myself [LaToya laughs] and now I'm very—in this soaked shirt. [both laugh] Just writing gross horny fantasies.
LaToya: We'll get into a soaking wet Boreanaz later. [laughs]
Morgan: Yes, we will. [laughs]
LaToya: Holtz makes a point, like, "you didn't do those things to me, and you didn't do them alone." 'Cause he—their whole torture thing was destroying his family and just making him have to sit with it. 'Cause that's the kind of people they were.
Morgan: Yeah, they were not nice.
LaToya: They were bad!
Morgan: Yeah, there's no ifs, ands or buts about it. No ambiguity. They were bad, bad people. [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah. Meanwhile, Darla's in the active stage of her labor, because Wesley's a fucking expert in giving birth to babies, and I need to know what's going on here!
Morgan: I will say, Fred is the one who's like, "She's in active labor." And then Wes is the one who's like, hey, let me come and tell you how to Lamaze breathe. And I'm again like, Wes, what do you know? I appreciate—
LaToya: What do you know and how do you know it?
Morgan: [laughs] I do appreciate that Cordelia points out, like, hey guys, like, childbirth's pretty natural. Women have been doing it, like, for a while, so like, chances are, this is kinda just gonna happen and we're just gonna, you know, facilitate it any way that we can. 'Cause like, that is—
LaToya: But she was wrong, though, [laughs] in this case.
Morgan: Yeah, it's like, well, vampire women have not been having babies for, you know, this long. This is fairly new and notable, Cordy. And Gunn of course wants Vaseline and a catcher's mitt. And there's our practical boy. [both laugh]
LaToya: Is there fanfiction about Wesley's knowledge of the birthing process and babies in general? And if so, I guess send it our way, because…I need to fill in the gaps.
Morgan: I am—I know I pitched it last week, but I do—I think high school—I think, you know, high school or college pregnancy—
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: Like—or like, even like, if it wasn't him, like, a friend who got pregnant that he needed to, like, help. Like, even that feels like—
LaToya: Actually, wait. Morgan, stop.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Not fanfiction. If there's not a canon, like, comic or Buffy book about it, we're gonna write it. So whoever is in charge of that—
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: Contact us, please.
Morgan: Please contact us. I would—nothing would make me happier than to write, like, a young Wes trying to do right by some, like, pregnant friend of his. And like, dealing with monsters and shit. Like, ugh! Watcher's school? Yes please!
LaToya: So he's teaching her how to breathe, and she screams, "I don't breathe!" And she just pushes them all aside. And she starts sobbing 'cause, you know, hormones, baby.
Morgan: Poor thing. [laughs] Again, as we've said before and will likely say again, if you've given birth, hats off to ya. Seems real hard. I feel so bad for Darla right now. She was really going through it, and she's entitled to shove whoever she wants right now, in my opinion. [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah. I agree. And you know, that's how we begin our episode.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And then after the opening credits, we flash back to the night that Angel and Darla killed Holtz's family. He's finally getting home.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Everyone's dead except for little Sarah.
Morgan: Yay! [laughs]
LaToya: Right? They did something nice. Or did they? And actually, before they reveal, you know, what happened, I did write in my notes, "the struggle British accents." [Morgan laughs] We have to acknowledge this—
Morgan: [bad British accent] "Dad-dy!"
LaToya: Both of them. Sorry, Holtz, but—so obviously, I don't have the major issue with Holtz that you do.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: But—because again, like I said, I think vengeance doesn't have to be as rational as you're trying to make it. [laughs]
Morgan: Fair. [laughs]
LaToya: But his British accent is a mess. And the only reason it doesn't get crapped on the way people do Boreanaz's Irish or like, Bianca Lawson's whatever-that-is—
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Is because it's understated, but it's still like, not good. It's so understated, it's not a British accent.
Morgan: Yeah—
LaToya: Like, he's not Dick Van Dyke'ing around, so that's why no one's talking about it, but it's not good.
Morgan: It's not good. He's, like, throwing it away. And I'm like, well, that's weird 'cause, like, when you kind of just, like, murmur everything, it's kind of odd. Like, then it, like, takes away some of the dynamics that you could use. I don't know. Yeah, not for—[crosstalk]
LaToya: And I've thought about this for a long time. Because especially if you watch the Season 3 gag reel and when he fucks up a take, and then he speaks in his normal accent, which is very much not this. [both laugh] It's not British, 'cause he's not British. It's just like, what are we doing here? Accent work. So again, justice for David Boreanaz and his Irish accent. You're all a bunch of haters.
NOTES: [laughs]
Morgan: [bad Irish accent] "Darla!"
LaToya: Again, I'm trying to get cancelled. Let it happen to me. [both laugh]
Morgan: No! [both laugh] Pulling you from the grips of cancelation.
LaToya: [laughs] He's from Oak Park, Illinois. If I'm correct, that is a Chicago suburb, I believe.
Morgan: I believe it is, yes. This is also when he, like—he sings to his—he's like, "calm down, let me sing to you." And this also was odd to me, 'cause it didn't really seem like she wanted or needed a song? And I was like, okay. Like, I appreciate the, like, it is a story device. And it eventually, like—giving Lorne the warning that it gives. But it felt a little reverse-engineered for me, but what are you gonna do?
LaToya: But also, what do parents do? I don't know. [both laugh] I say as though I don't have a mom. I have a mom. My mom hasn't sung—like, sung to me like that, at least.
Morgan: Yeah. I—maybe that's a thing that we share. 'Cause I too have never been soothed by a parent singing me a little something. [laughs] That was not in my parents' toolbox.
LaToya: If I were a parent, and my child had just been chomped, you know what I would sing?
Morgan: [laughing] What would you sing?
LaToya: [singing] "As we go on, we remember—" [laughs]
Morgan: [singing in unison] "We remember…" [both laugh] "All the times we got a chomp!"
LaToya: [simultaneously] I'm on cold medicine, I'll let you guys know. [both laugh]
Morgan: This is where I will disclose that I wrote in my notes, "He sings to her, which is nice, I guess. Seems to be more for him than for her." [laughs]
LaToya: See, I wrote in my notes, "Holtz realizes she is vampyre. Yes, with a Y."
NOTES: [both laugh]
Morgan: So yeah, he notices the chomp on her neck and is like, ugh. And then I wrote, "I do feel bad for him, for the record."
LaToya: But over at Wolfram & Hart, Lilah's briefing Linwood and Gavin on the mystery man, who's not in the system at all. Because Wolfram & Hart, just fucking up all over the place.
Morgan: Yeah, it's like, who handles their historical record—but to be fair, I guess what record would there be of this? But then, Giles is always pulling out a dusty old tome, being like, when Angel was, like, in this year, he did these four things. And I'm like, how do you know that? Who wrote that down? [LaToya laughs] So I guess someone's writing all this shit down. [laughs]
LaToya: Wow, I think we should put all of that in your Shanshu prophecy. Who would have the records of such a thing?
Morgan: [laughing] Mmhmm! I like this moment where they're like, is this a new player? And then Gavin swoops in and he's like, "Probably an old player. He called him Angelus." And I'm like, what the fuck?! That was Lilah's observation, you dick!
LaToya: I love how they're jockeying for position with Linwood. It's actually great to me. And Gavin has really turned a corner with this whole thing. [both laugh]
Morgan: I'm so mad at him. He's being such a little dingus. [LaToya laughs] I'm pissed. [laughs]
LaToya: I'm like, Gavin, this was actually hot. I approve. [both laugh]
Morgan: My, like, women in the workplace, like, being snubbed by their male colleagues anger [LaToya laughs] clashing with my "but Morgan, you don't want Wolfram & Hart to run well. It's a bad place full of bad people." [LaToya laughing] And I'm like, but still, sexism's wrong! Like…you know. Trying to really—going around and around and around in this old skull here. [both laughing]
LaToya: [laughing] Talking about your skull, you weirdo.
Morgan: I'm a weirdo.
LaToya: People don't need to hear about Angel the TV series. Just cancel us completely.
Morgan: No.
LaToya: Scorch the earth. [both laugh] Salt it. Remove us from the narrative.
Morgan: Well, that is what Linwood does. [both laugh] He decides he was—because it wasn't—this didn't go well—that he was never here. Which is…a move I didn't know you could do.
LaToya: Linwood, as I wrote in my notes, really is that bitch. Like…[both laugh]
Morgan: Truly. He's like, "When I hear about this for the first time at our next staff meeting, I'm gonna be so pissed at you guys." [both laugh] And I was like, what a bitch!
LaToya: Ah, how did it take us three seasons to get Linwood Murrow? He's great.
Morgan: Linwood is great. And yeah, as I said before, just like, my—so far, my favorite, you know, like, upper management Wolfram & Hart person so far. Just awesome. A great performance. [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah. So back at the hotel, Angel's trying to figure out what's up with Holtz. 'Cause he's still human, so how'd you manage, you know, this whole 200 years thing?
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: But you know, Holtz is admiring the weapons collection, which again, is no longer in the basement 'cause Angel was upset that everything was moved around. So it's right in the open for any old person to get. So Holtz says that Darla was the unpredictable one. And he wonders if she would sense if, like, he killed Angel right now. Possibly, actually. [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah, maybe. And I know, he's like, maybe I should just kill you and then Darla will come to me for revenge. 'Cause it has a way of doing things like that.
LaToya: And Angel basically wants to know, like, what did you give up for this? Like, what was—like, your deal with the devil, what was the deal? He says nothing was taken, but you know…
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: I don't know. I feel like something's taken. Even if he doesn't think so.
Morgan: Yeah, it definitely took a toll on him. And, like—but yeah, he's like, there was nothing left—like, you took everything from me. There was nothing left to take. And this is where Angel points out that his soul wasn't taken from him. And that, like—he's like, but your soul will be, like, destroyed and corrupted if you allow yourself to be used to do evil. Which is what's happening to you right now.
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: And he's like, remember when all your sidekicks used to be men and now they're demons? Look at you. Which I'm like, Angel, these demons seem really nice and very cool and very buff and like they have a dope gym that they should invite me to. But point well made.
LaToya: Yeah. And then Holtz is like, "I don't remember you ever pleading so cravenly before." Which yeah, that's true. 'Cause back in the day, obviously, Angelus would just crack jokes about all of this. Here, he just cracked the one joke that was…ill-advised.
Morgan: Yeah, it's like, come on, buddy.
LaToya: Meanwhile, Cordy is smacking Wes awake, which can't be good for his brain.
Morgan: [laughing] It can't be, but I love her little slap. It's very—I feel like it doesn't rattle his brain too much. It's very gentle.
LaToya: But it's also, like, as Gunn notes, it's again. So she's been hitting him for awhile at this point. [laughs]
Morgan: Yes and I love that, like, Gunn's like, "Hit him again." That—like, at least it's Cordy's responsibility to do the slapping.
LaToya: So Gunn gets what he deserves later.
Morgan: Oh, yes. [both laugh] And Darla is feeling, like, much weepier now.
LaToya: She's muttering to herself and it's great. Once everyone—you know, once Wes is up and against the car, everyone just squeezes into the front seat. It's comfy!
Morgan: It's so cute. Fred's, like, sitting on Gunn's lap. And I love it so much, and I love when Darla's like, "None of you wanna sit with me?" [both laugh]
LaToya: They do make a good point, though. Her water broke all over the back seat, apparently. Poor Angel.
Morgan: Yeah, and then she's like, "Oh, okay." Yeah, that interior is—
LaToya: And you know he's gonna have a whole conniption about his car.
Morgan: He absolutely is, and that interior is fucked, so hope he has a guy.
NOTES: [laughs]
LaToya: I'm sure he has a—he has to have a guy.
Morgan: When you have an old classic car like that, I feel like you have to have, like, a guy.
LaToya: And then we have another scene, like, with the reveal of the vampire cult last episode. Which is Wesley realizing all the demons are coming to get them. And then one of the demons has got her. Is it Darla? No! It's Lilah.
Morgan: Dun-dun-dun!
LaToya: 'Cause, again, these demons—not the brightest.
Morgan: [laughs] They're not very smart.
LaToya: And she, like, goes to, like, even hits her with the holy water. Is like, "This isn't her, she isn't even a vampire." [both laugh]
Morgan: Lilah takes being hit with that holy water in stride pretty well, which I like. She's definitely annoyed about it, but she's like, I get it. I'm not gonna comment on it. [both laugh] I'm obsessed. He asks, like, do you know who Angelus is?
LaToya: I really like the wacky sidekicks, yadda-yadda-yadda.
Morgan: As do I. What a queen. Just unfazed by everything. Lilah, I love you.
LaToya: She's just cool to watch and wait for the torture. But yeah, this is how Holtz learns about the soul curse.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Which again, Sahjhan didn't tell him.
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: And she's like, I'll just go. And he's like, no, I guess I'm gonna have to fuck you up too. [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: And he's like—'cause she brings up that she's a lawyer. And he's like, "you deal in man's law! [laughing] I kill in God's!" I'm sorry, I'm trying to do his British accent.
Morgan: Uh-huh.
LaToya: And she says, "I said I'm a lawyer. I don't care about the law." [both laugh] True.
Morgan: It's true, yeah. I love that. Is this also where he's like, "Your men fought well" and all of that stuff—
LaToya: [laughing] Yeah, and she's like, I don't—she clearly doesn't care.
Morgan: I appreciate, like—if I felt like—I like the idea—the motions towards that is the idea that Holtz is, like—was and is still hanging onto the pieces of him that were this, like, big man—
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: Of honor. So I think if there had been more of a sense of that before, like, that would have felt like something to me, like, that he lost. It feels more like…something he kind of—I didn't really see him having before and now he still has a little—
LaToya: Yeah, I like that kind of bit, of just like him thinking, of course, you know, she sent these people. She would want to know that, you know, they fought with honor and you know, they put up a fight. But like, she doesn't give a shit, and he's not really noticing that, like, she's, like, an evil piece of shit, basically. [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah, 'cause he's got his own shit to consider, which is, like, fair. You're right. Like, vengeance is not—not a clear headspace. Yes. [laughs]
LaToya: I mean. He's not thinking evil female lawyers exist. [both laugh]
Morgan: Fair enough.
LaToya: He knows demons exist, but like, he would not have known that evil demon lawyer—like, female lawyers exist. That's just not a thing he would know to exist.
Morgan: I mean, he hasn't even seen Ally McBeal, so he doesn't even know that lawyers can wear short skirts and be girls. Like, so he's got a lot of catching up to do.
LaToya: Once he sees—imagine Holtz seeing the Barry White dance in the bathroom and losing his shit.
Morgan: [laughs] See, I'm more thinking about him, like, getting a Vonda Shepard CD and really just, like, jamming. And hearing her, like, just—if, like, he heard that piano bar music and just could vibe for a little bit, maybe he could repair some things within himself.
LaToya: I think what would actually help him repair something is Robert Downey Jr. singing River. He would lose his shit.
NOTES: ["River" plays] It's coming on Christmas, they're cutting down trees They're putting up reindeer, singing songs of joy and peace Oh, I wish I had a river I could skate away on
Morgan: Things could change. Just a thought, Holtz.
LaToya: This is—yeah, that's what would save Holtz's soul.
Morgan: Mmhmm. So weirdly, no one grabs a boombox and the copy of An Ally McBeal Christmas that they obviously would also have on hand and plays this for him. So he continues his mission.
LaToya: So while Lilah's talking with Holtz, Angel is stealthy and he gets a grenade!
Morgan: Yeah, and he chomps down on the ring and pulls the pin and yells at Lilah to duck.
LaToya: [simultaneously] And he does tell Lilah to duck. He—yeah.
Morgan: He—yeah, he doesn't wanna kill her. Like, which is nice. And also, I think—I think he's also smart enough to know that, like, the fact that he knows her and they have a rapport can only be, like…like, can be a good thing for him, in terms of like, having someone at Wolfram & Hart that he can talk to and intimidate and all that stuff. So then Holtz and Lilah, like, have a continuation of their scene. And I was surprised. Like, I felt like another show would play Holtz, like, not believing that Angel had gotten his soul back. But he believes it right away, it just doesn't change his mind.
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: And Lilah establishes that Darla is not re-ensouled. Because, like—
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: Holtz does ask. She says that Darla is "free range evil."
LaToya: Which again, that means, like, even if there's any good will that is created from knowing that Angel has a soul, the fact that he's still hanging around with Darla without one. Even though, you know, not the full picture still.
Morgan: Yep. [laughs]
LaToya: That's like, well, fuck him.
Morgan: Yeah. And then Lilah finds just a spare Nyazian scroll just laying about.
LaToya: She steals that and all of Wesley's notes. [laughs] Which is what Angel came to get, also. Like, that's why he's there.
Morgan: Yep. What a bitch. [both laugh] I love her.
LaToya: Meanwhile, the gang is fighting those demons as Darla continues to mutter. And then I wrote in my notes, "go Fred, kick ass" 'cause Fred's kicking ass!
Morgan: She does. And at one point, like, Gunn does help her and she says, "Thank you, Charles!" and I was like…[squeals]
LaToya: Were you just sobbing? [laughs]
Morgan: I can't—
LaToya: How much crying were you doing during this episode, honestly?
Morgan: Me, uh, I was holding it in and being very dignified and stiff upper lip.
NOTES: [laughs]
LaToya: [sarcastically] And you never screamed, ever.
Morgan: Never screamed, never cried. There is not a picture of me watching the show lovingly that was taken by my boyfriend. [both laugh] But yeah, I loved this. And I love that Darla just, like, hops in the driver's seat and takes the guys out. And you're like, oh hey, Darla's being helpful. And then drives away. [both laugh]
LaToya: And then we have an excellent button to this scene, which is Angel finally arriving. And asking, what are we looking at?
Morgan: Angel, like, truly arriving ten minutes late with Starbucks, like…[laughs] just—he—the way he installs himself, like, in the center of the group of all of them, as if he's been there all along, and is like, what are we all looking at? [both laugh] And they all look at him like, wait, what?! [both laugh] Wonderful.
LaToya: So good. Good TV writing. Good TV.
Morgan: I would agree.
LaToya: It's kinda like a movie.
Morgan: Like, a really long one. Yeah.
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: Yeah. [laughs] I'm glad we're on the same page about this.
LaToya: TV was movies even in 2001.
Morgan: So true.
NOTES: [AD BREAK]
Morgan: So our—we go to commercial and come back, and our gang is still in the alley. Holtz doesn't seem to know about, like, the pregnancy. And Fred kind of, like, lays out this possibility of Holtz, like, unknowingly playing this cosmic role by killing Darla and this child. And like, what if this child's destined to be this important historical figure? And it's all bad, and then she's like, "Or not. Or everything's fine! Have you picked a name yet?" [laughs]
LaToya: I mean, she has a point, and she said it, so there.
Morgan: Yeah. But there's—but to answer Fred's question, there's been no discussion of names. There's been very little discussion of names. And—
LaToya: They've mostly discussed, like, how are you gonna kill it?
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: When are you gonna kill it?
Morgan: I've yet to see Darla with a big book of baby names. [both laugh]
LaToya: Deleted scene. But yeah, Angel's gonna go find Darla and the rest of the gang needs to go find a safe place to, like, bring them to. So break. Oh, and also, Wesley asks about the scrolls but Angel didn't get a chance to grab them. And Wes is like, I'm sure they'll be fine. [Morgan snorts] Cut to…Lilah has an expert looking at the scrolls. Did you love this character, Morgan?
Morgan: I loved this character, but nothing in this scene made me happier than when I wrote in all caps in my notes, "Lilah highlighted an ancient scroll. I love my evil lawyer girlfriend." [both laugh] He's like, "you highlighted an ancient scroll?" and she goes, "In yellow." [laughs]
LaToya: I mean, it's not like they're gonna be selling it or doing anything for money with it. Like, they're just gonna keep it away from people who could really use it.
Morgan: I know, but I do think, like, the chemicals that are in highlighter ink are probably, maybe—there's a chance that's not great for, like, really old paper, but—
LaToya: What do you know about chemicals, Morgan?
Morgan: [laughing] Literally nothing. This is all conjecture. To any of our listeners who know things about chemicals, let me know if that would be bad for old paper. But yes, I loved this guy, who is, like, way too vocal about his process and has—
LaToya: Who's really worried that, like, the original notes were done by a colleague who's trying to take his job. It's like, no. Just—move on. [laughs]
Morgan: A very, like, funny and pointed, like, picture of like, an academic person, who's too much wrapped up in the politics of, like, academic to actually, you know, maybe do the job in a timely manner, like Lilah needs.
LaToya: So yeah, so she says have it done by morning or she'll kill his family. Or have his family killed, she's not gonna do it herself, obviously.
Morgan: Ugh, no. She'd break a nail.
LaToya: So Holtz confronts Sahjhan about the whole not telling him about Angel's soul thing.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Which is where Sahjhan says, "Didn't seem all that important." Come on, son.
Morgan: To be fair, this—like, that's a big red flag that he, like, doesn't even own up to that mattering. Like, I appreciate—and then, again, Holtz does not care. He's like, this just changes my feeling because hunting after someone with a soul is different than hunting after someone without a soul. Like, I have to know this shit if you want me to find this guy.
LaToya: And then, you know, he's like, you kept nothing else from me then? He's like, uhh, no, nothing I can think of. Red flags, red flags! But obviously, not thinking clearly. But Sahjhan brings up how, you know, Attila the Hun had a soul. For those who don't have—like, naturally have souls, like an Angel—
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Like, it weighs on them when they have one. Whereas with, like, a human, you know, or anyone who has a soul, it's like, yet another thing that can be taken for granted, basically. Which is why, like—it's not saying that, you know, being given a soul—having a soul makes you automatically good. It's just that when it's something that is thrust on you, you're gonna feel that, as opposed to something you've had your entire life.
Morgan: Yeah. Like, it is—it is a game changer. Like, I mean, there is every chance though that, like—I mean, we see when—in Season 2, when Angel, like, in his flashbacks, like, he goes back to Darla after he has a soul and is like, I'll try it again. Like, I'll be evil and I'll be bad with you and I'll do all this stuff. Like, for all Holtz knows, Angel did that and then successfully was Darla's, like, partner in crime with a soul, still doing evil stuff for all of this time. It's just that he wasn't, but you know, how's he to know any of that? Especially if Sahjhan's not telling him and, you know, if—you know, he had zero faith in Angel to begin with, pretty understandably, given their history.
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: But yeah, the "is there anything else you need to tell me?" "No." The cut right to Darla's pregnant belly…[both laugh] is not subtle. But it doesn't need to be.
LaToya: They're on a roof, baby. 'Cause you know, she always did love a view.
Morgan: Ugh! Darla being, like, fucked up about bringing a child into the world with this much evil in it…hurt my heart. I just, like—this scene is so beautiful. I just think, like, it goes so many places and it's just so lovely. And it feels—it feels, like, so, so natural. And you know, given that these are two vampires talking about their improbable vampire baby, we've all—not all of us, but many of us have seen Twilight Breaking Dawn. That conversation does not always feel, like, authentic or good. There's a lot of ways for it to feel very silly and improbable to hear two people talking about this. But this feels, like, two real people talking about a real problem that they're facing and real feelings that they have about it. And her just being like, how can I bring a kid into all of this, when like, this world is so bad. And I love this thing, I love this baby inside me. And I don't want it to ever be hurt. Like, ugh! So—ugh, my heart! [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah, she asks Angel, "What do I have to offer a child?" 'Cause she's like, I haven't given this baby anything, 'cause I'm dead. It's been nourishing me. So like, all of her feelings right now, they're coming from the baby and the baby's soul. Which makes a lot more sense than—I'm still trying to figure out the whole "why she's been craving younger blood" part. That still doesn't make sense. But we're moving past that, we're two episodes past that, so we're good. But yeah, this tracks. And she even, like, notes once she's given birth—you know, once the baby's, like, out of her, she won't be able to love it. And she won't even, like, rem—be able to remember loving it, you know.
Morgan: Her breaking down about that absolutely broke my heart. The idea that she's like, yeah, I won't remember I loved it. Like, I won't be able to love it and, like, hold it in my arms and like, have a relationship with my child.
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: Like, every—like, it really does comport with the fact that, like, as a vampire, it is unnatural and—like, she was never meant to have a child. Like, the child was not meant to make it, she was not meant to be, like, a mother, in the traditional sense. Like, it is—it's an impossible scenario.
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: And she is, like, dealing with that feeling. And it's great.
LaToya: Yeah, and—her not being able to, like, love the baby after it's born is, like—that's the unspoken truth that they've been just kind of ignoring about all of this. Like, so we've gotten past the whole, the baby's possibly evil, it shouldn't come to be. It's like, okay, this baby is gonna come to be. But what happens once Darla no longer has its soul giving her these feelings and making her care? You have to, like, protect the baby from its mother now.
Morgan: Yeah. And that, like—I mean, that would be another, like, horrifying thing in itself. And the fact that Darla is in this situation where she can now feel the tragedy of that, and just doesn't know—like, then what is the next step? You know, like, how do you do it? And it is really just, like, a really hard situation that I think is so well earned and, like, well put—like, it is a gorgeous setup.
LaToya: Like—
Morgan: Yeah. Her staking herself is the perfect answer, yeah.
LaToya: Okay, let's see. Say she gives birth, right?
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: She lives and the baby lives. And they decide that their next course of action is to give her a soul. They're gonna do that spell. Based on what we've seen, both this season and from Season 2 actually, with like, when Darla has a soul. What's to say she's not going to kill herself then either? Like—
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: She's just gonna kill herself then, just—and without—after giving birth to the baby. Like, honestly.
Morgan: Yeah. And, like—or just be, like, an absolute shell for—
LaToya: She'd be a wreck. Yeah.
Morgan: For so much of the child's life, too, yeah.
LaToya: It'd be the ultimate postpartum depression, really, is what it would be.
Morgan: Absolutely. Like, it's—it's a really, like, hopeless situation, in this moment. And I think, it—like, Angel does all he can do, which is to, like, hold her and to comfort her. And to try to just, like, be there. Because, like, there's nothing else to do. Like, there's no clean answer. I think that is where the show operates best, like, in these moments—these very difficult moments and these—like, just trying to do the best you can. And knowing that things aren't gonna get solved, like, neat and in a bow. It's just—but people keep living anyway, even though things don't get solved. And that's, like, what this—the kind of material that this show deals with and deals with so well. And I just—yeah. I think this scene is so good.
LaToya: Yeah. It's great. Julie Benz, good at acting?
Morgan: Julie Benz, good at acting. I wrote "Darla" in very big letters and drew a sad face. She's great.
LaToya: She is. So at Caritas, Lorne's like, what the fuck? You're having—gonna have the baby here? It's about to be the grand reopening of Caritas, y'all!
Morgan: Mmhmm! He has flyers.
LaToya: Yeah, Arney the demon construction worker is, like, wiring up the new security system, which is to prevent demon and human violence, Gunn.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Yeah, and Arney of course is the one who can, like, repeat people's words in their voices. And Morgan's like, that's a cool thing I wanna do. 'Cause she's a creep.
Morgan: Yep. [laughs]
LaToya: She's a little freak, as we know.
Morgan: Dang-ass freak.
LaToya: But yeah, Arney's also humming so Lorne knows he's gonna, like—he's leaving a wire disconnected, basically, to make the job go longer, to rip him off. So Lorne fires him and is like, I'll do the wires myself.
Morgan: As a small business owner, you gotta know when to draw the line and delegate, buddy. [laughs] Then we have that moment—like, our next moment is like, the moment with Darla and Angel where she says, like, "You won't let me hurt it, will you?" And that…ahh! [laughs] My heart!
LaToya: Yeah. And then Wes calls to tell him that Caritas is the place. We have Fred slapping Gunn to test the security system.
Morgan: So cute! [both laugh]
LaToya: So Angel's like, let's go, a storm's coming. Both literally and metaphorically.
Morgan: Mmm.
LaToya: But Darla's feeling something. Something else.
Morgan: Yes. Then we go to Lilah's office to have more translation talk.
LaToya: It says nothing about a birth, but also it does, but it doesn't.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Basically, the prophecy's an obituary. It says, there will be no birth.
Morgan: Only death…
LaToya: It also basically talks about there being rain, which, you know. [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah. And yeah, Lilah's like, death? Cool! What a chaotic gal. [laughs]
LaToya: And she's like, I guess I have nothing else to do for the rest of the night. Which girl, nope! You should have kept some people on him. So flashback. The day after Angel and Darla's shenanigans. Holtz's men are trying to get him to leave his home, because it's the devil's work, basically.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And he's not going to. And you know, the body's still on the floor. His daughter's just staying in the shadows. And—
Morgan: A great sign. [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah. And this is when we get the confirmation, 'cause he decides to take his daughter outside into the sun. Which…fucking Angelus and Darla!
Morgan: Yeah! That is—look, that is very brutal. I get it. You're gonna want your vengeance, when that kind of thing happens. When you have to throw your daughter forcibly into the sunlight and watch her burst into flames because of the actions of two, um, horny deviants. Yeah, you're gonna want to hurt those people.
LaToya: Gunn, still getting hit. This time by Cordy slapping him in the back of the head, as he's just playing his GameBoy. The GameBoy is back!
Morgan: I was so happy to see the GameBoy back. I wish that I had had that colored GameBoy. My GameBoy was lime green.
LaToya: Ah, yeah, I had purple.
Morgan: You had purple? That's dope.
LaToya: Yeah, the purple GameBoy color. Okay, so yeah, we have to note it is the GameBoy Color. 'Cause GameBoy…
Morgan: Of course.
LaToya: Is just a little brick.
Morgan: Yes.
LaToya: Except for the clear one.
Morgan: [sighs] Very cool.
LaToya: I was always jealous of the people with the clear one.
Morgan: The clear one was so cool. I do not think I picked my color. I think my color was kind of, like, picked for me, as to like, you know, what was on sale, available, or whatever. But yeah, the purple is so dope and the clear was dope. I hope Gunn's having fun playing his game, 'cause he is really getting [laughs] hit repeatedly.
LaToya: I know you said it was like Mary Kate and Ashley. But I'm gonna hope [inaudible] some Pokemon? Some classic Pokemon.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Or Mario Tennis, which is the jam on GameBoy.
Morgan: Dang, okay. Yeah. I think Mario—would he be Mario? Like, who do you think he would be maining as, if he played?
LaToya: Well, like—in that, it's like, there's the story mode. So you're like, someone at a tennis academy, basically, and you're like, going up the ranks. So like, eventually you'll go against Mario and everything.
Morgan: Gunn. Tell us what you were playing. [both laugh] Darla and Angel come in. And Darla is, like, apologizing for her behavior but she's also, like, laughing. It's—she's not doing well.
LaToya: Hormones! When in doubt, hormones. That is the one thing that I think—consider a pro for pregnancy is that you can just blame everything on hormones.
Morgan: Would love the opportunity to do that. That piece of it is appealing to me. [both laugh] But her contractions have stopped and like, something else has started, like she said before.
LaToya: Yeah, they're now an hour apart, which is not good considering how, like, she was—her water broke. [both laugh]
Morgan: And Wes is just like, that's worrying. To which I write in my notes, "you think, Wes?!" [laughs]
LaToya: He's like, no, I know because I'm an expert on babies. [both laugh]
Morgan: Fucking…guy reads one—one article and think he's—or has an entire backstory that we'll cover later.
LaToya: It's like—he must have an entire backstory. 'Cause I don't imagine Giles being like, I know everything about childbirth.
Morgan: You can't just do that and not tell us more. Especially—
LaToya: And we will tell you more on the official Buffyverse book that we will be, like, writing if you let us publish it.
Morgan: Please.
LaToya: Whoever is in charge of that. [laughs]
Morgan: Yes. And I'll come up—we'll come up with a good, like, What to Expect When You're Expecting pun or something.
LaToya: Yeah, see, people make their intentions known with, like, those Star Wars books, then they get to write them. So we should get to write, like, a Buffyverse book.
Morgan: I think we'd do a really good job.
LaToya: I agree.
Morgan: Yeah. Let us write a book for each member of Team Angel. I think it'd be really fun. I wanna write a Gunn book with you, I wanna write a Cordy book with you. I wanna write a Fred book with you.
LaToya: Let this happen.
Morgan: Please!
LaToya: Please.
Morgan: But when Darla gets up from her chair, Fred sees some blood on it. And—
LaToya: Yikes.
Morgan: That's also worrying!
LaToya: Not good. But also not good is the fact that Arney, the little worker who got fired, is working for Sahjhan. You can't trust anyone who works for you, apparently.
Morgan: You cannot trust anyone. This was very upsetting, not fun to see.
LaToya: Did you remember that he was a snitch? 'Cause I know you were like, his power's cool. And I'm like, this fucking snitch, in my mind. [laughs]
Morgan: I don't think I specifically did. But when I saw it, I wasn't surprised. I was like, alright. I mean, like, if he was shady enough to, like, pull that shit with Lorne, like, he was shady enough to do this.
LaToya: I mean, I think that just, you know, was calling out contractors who, you know, they stretch things out.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: But contractors are basically, you know, snitching-ass demons is what they're saying. [both laugh]
Morgan: Which I don't appreciate 'cause my dad is kind of a contractor. But I, you know—like, if you're a contractor who pulls that shit, I do think that you are then capable of any kind of snitching-ass behavior.
LaToya: You wanna do Fuck Watch?
Morgan: Yeah, baby!
NOTES: [FUCK WATCH jingle plays] Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing Fuck Watch!
LaToya: Morgan. Who you wanna fuck this week? [laughs]
Morgan: God, I really—it's coming for me, isn't it? I—you know what? Linwood. [LaToya laughs] I—
LaToya: Wow!
Morgan: I just, like—look, I respect power. I've been watching a lot of, like, Real Housewives. I think that in the Angel universe, if I could, like, fuck and then, like, parley into a mutually beneficial relationship, perhaps even a marriage, to Linwood, I would be able to wield quite a bit of power. And that might be beneficial to me in this cutthroat world that we know, you know, 2001 Angel's Los Angeles to be. That is my take. [laughs]
LaToya: See—
Morgan: Weren't expecting that, huh?
LaToya: Kind of—like, I was thinking, should I choose Linwood? I'm like, I will have opportunities to choose Linwood in the future. So I'm like, holding that. But you know who I am gonna choose?
Morgan: Who?
LaToya: An emotional, muttering to herself Darla. [Morgan groans] I mean, she's glowing, as the kids say.
Morgan: Yes! Look. That's what pregnancy'll do to ya. And it's a good pick, 'cause she is…she's sublime.
LaToya: I mean, you already chose Darla, so you know.
Morgan: I know, yeah. We've enumerated many a reason, but I just wanna salute you. It's a great pick.
LaToya: Are you making sure to mark down who you've chosen for Fuck Watch, just in case? You don't wanna repeat, obviously.
Morgan: I will. I have them all in my head, but it's probably a good idea to write them down. [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: In my diary with hearts around them.
NOTES: [FUCK WATCH jingle plays] Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing Fuck Watch!
LaToya: Wes tells Angel to prepare for the worst, 'cause the baby's heartbeat is faint. 'Cause he, you know, got his fucking stethoscope out or something.
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: Because Dr. Wesley Wyndam-Pryce is in the building.
Morgan: [laughs] What is this, The Mindy Project? [both laugh] 'Cause we love weird amounts of knowledge of obstetrics here.
LaToya: Yes. Wesley points out something that's—yeah. Darla's body is not a life-giving vessel. Correct! She is dead. Like Gunn said, they need a demon doctor for this shit to understand how her demon parts work. Literally! They are dead body parts.
Morgan: If only a certain very cool, very weird doctor with chicken feet were here!
NOTES: [laughs]
LaToya: No, no, no, no. [laughs]
Morgan: Dr. Fetvanovich, come back! We miss you. LaToya and I both miss you. She told me! [both laugh]
LaToya: No, shut up. Don't go Mr. Moviefone on me. [both laugh]
Morgan: Fair, fair, fair.
LaToya: Cordy suggests a C-section, and Fred points out, usually they do that, but you know, with the mystical force protecting the pregnancy, if they do that, it'll probably just kill the baby.
Morgan: Ugh! [laughs]
LaToya: And now Angel's, like, spiraling 'cause basically he's like, you don't just get half a miracle. [Morgan groans] And he believes that, like, the Powers That Be are the reason for Darla having this baby. And then Gunn's like, you know what? Fuck that. Maybe it is, like, the scourge from the prophecies and the Powers not allowing this to be is them finally doing shit.
Morgan: Which is, like—which is really fair. Like, that's the thing is like, they really don't know. Like, Gunn is being a realist here and is like, you know there's a chance of this. And it—that is parade-raining, yes. But if Gunn were right, it would have been good for someone to raise that as an option. And it's, like—I feel for Gunn here. Because like, I do think, like, he's right to bring that up as a possibility. And—but Boreanaz's delivery of like, so like…killing my kid is, like, the right option? There, like, really—really hurt me. Like, it's so flat and wounded and sad. Like, Angel's really latched onto this.
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: He wants this baby. He wants to, like, be a part of something new and something that could be good. Like, ugh! And you get it. Like, I think you just—you feel it, completely.
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: [quietly] It's so sad!
LaToya: Then Cordelia Chase, of all people, says to Gunn, "Do you always have to be so damned honest?" [both laugh] Cordelia Chase says this.
Morgan: I know! Like, honey. [both laugh]
LaToya: And then she slaps him. And the spell works!
Morgan: I love that.
LaToya: The security system's working now. Lorne's getting amped at the worst possible time. [both laugh]
Morgan: He's like, I did it! Is anyone gonna congratulate me? [both laugh] I was like, buddy. Read the room.
LaToya: Dude, you missed an entire argument.
Morgan: Then we have the Angel and Darla scene, right?
LaToya: Yeah. She asks him if the baby's dying. He's like—he lies and says no. And she's like, I can feel the life slipping away from me, which, oof.
Morgan: Ugh, yeah. And Angel's like, you have to, like, fight. Like, you have to do it. And this is where Darla says, some mother I am. Like, I can't even give him life. And this is when—I think it was—it might have been a little bit earlier, but they were, like, noting that Darla's actually, like, saying him. Calling the baby a baby. Like, no longer an object. Like, the cat is out of the bag on her having feelings for this—both in general and for this child. And it's a great look on Darla, like most things.
LaToya: And she's calling Angel, you know, her boy, her darling boy as she does. But it's not with the sinister vibe it usually has when she says it.
Morgan: Mmhmm. Yeah.
LaToya: 'Cause, you know, she has a soul right now. So…
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: It's really sweet.
Morgan: Ugh!
LaToya: And Gunn wants to apologize to Angel for what he just said. But they decide, you know, Angel and Darla need some time alone.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And then enter Holtz. With, you know what, a spectacular poker face when seeing Lorne, immediately.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Yeah. [crosstalk] he knows demons exist and everything. But like, the fact that he's not, like, just fucking sneering at this devil-looking motherfucker?
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: That takes a lot.
Morgan: Yeah, I was impressed.
LaToya: 'Cause again, you see Lorne. He literally looks like a devil image—
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: That is, like, the immediate reaction you would have to him.
Morgan: He is surprising-looking, yes. But Holtz is straight-faced. Lorne was just about to get everybody drinks, 'cause he was like, what we need is to all be drunk. And I'm like, Lorne. I'm liking your strategy. But Holtz, like, shows up, takes the flyer Lorne offers him, 'cause Lorne's doing business and is like, we're reopening! Like, not tonight though, so go away. And he leaves and just starts, like, absentmindedly singing to himself. And you don't wanna absentmindedly sing around Lorne. 'Cause he's gonna, you know, read your intentions and know all of your evil plans. So he tells everybody to run.
LaToya: Yeah 'cause, uh, kaboom.
Morgan: [groans] Right when it was ready!
LaToya: That's a technicality on the violence thing.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Which of course, Arney would know 'cause he was working on the thing.
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: So. Basically, fucking Caritas goes kaboom.
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: Like, they just fixed up Caritas, like—but Caritas is no more, clearly. It just went kaboom.
Morgan: I hope—like, does Lorne have insurance? Like, I hope—
LaToya: I don't know, 'cause he doesn't have probably the connections to, you know, falsify things like Angel does.
Morgan: That's just gonna be so much wasted money. But I guess, you know, he puts it on the back burner right now so that everybody can survive. They go to his—they, like, go down to Lorne's bedroom. And like, this is when Darla learns for the first time that Holtz is back. And she's like, Holtz?! And it's like, yeah, sorry, we didn't tell you before.
LaToya: And now she can feel the pain of what they did to him, too.
Morgan: Mmhmm. And she's—
LaToya: And she's like, this is why this is happening. And she's like, "Doesn't seem so funny now, does it?" she asks. Oof.
Morgan: Ugh. This is also where—[laughs] Cordelia goes, "Rhino!" and hands one of the boys a little rhino statue to use to burst through the wall, which tickled me very much. [both laugh] And then Angel, like, kicks in the entire wall, releasing them outside into an alley in the rain.
LaToya: Angel, of course, won't leave Darla. He has them go get his car, and Fred stays behind. And chivalrous Angel, giving her his jacket. No, like, words, just gives it to her. Sweet man.
Morgan: So sweet! Yeah, that—
LaToya: Luckily, she's past her crush so she's not gonna make a thing about it.
NOTES: [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah, and I love it. I do think—that crush is such a short-lived crush in a way that I think is so real. Because even if they had not had the traumatic Carpe Noctem experience, I do really think she would have gotten over it. Because they are just not suited to each other. [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: She'd be like, ah, he's goofy. Like, he's a dope. [both laugh] Charles is around.
LaToya: Ah, Charles.
Morgan: Charles! This is where I write in my notes—'cause like, you know, Darla just lays down in the street, in the rain. Like you do. And I write, "We have officially found a worse place to give birth than the car." [both laugh] They said it couldn't be done, but I'm gonna say, I would rather give birth in the backseat of a car than in a rainy alley. [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah!
Morgan: Yeah. Like, officially, they've managed to make it worse. And I didn't think they could.
LaToya: Of course they could, because as Darla says, "Angel, our baby's gonna die right here in this alley. You died in an alley, remember?" And he's like, yeah, I remember. And, you know, she basically says she wishes she could apologize for, you know, what she did to him, which is, you know, she damned him. I don't know if you remember that, but she damned him.
Morgan: Hmm. I remember a boob slice and then a damning. [both laugh]
LaToya: Yeah. But she says she can't do that. And she knows that neither of them can make up for the terrible things that they did, which you know, we've talked about that.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And then she says but this child is the one good thing they ever did together. The only good thing. And you know, Fred—even Fred's, like—she's crying. She's like, this is sweet.
Morgan: Yeah!
LaToya: And then she says, "You make sure to tell him that." Stake!
Morgan: Ughhh! It's so good. It's so, so good. It's just, like—it's such a, like, a beautiful act of, like—and tragic act—of like, sacrifice and love. Because it just—it can't be. Like, she wants this baby to exist and she knows she cannot exist at the same time. As the baby, the way she wants to. Like, even if there were some kind of, like, way to deliver the baby, way to have a C-section, like we talked about, she would not be able to love the baby or remember having loved the baby. And she believes in this moment that it is—it needs to live and that it's a good thing.
LaToya: It's also a death scene worthy of this character and Julie Benz. 'Cause compare it to how she died in the episode "Angel" in Buffy. First of all, it was the result of her being extremely selfish and just shitty. And she was trying to pop-pop Buffy, basically. [laughs] And then Angel kills her. And you know, she was not much a character, despite, you know, being told all the history she had with Angel. And we learn more about the character in the flashbacks after that, honestly.
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: That's how Darla becomes, like, an all-time character is those flashbacks starting in Season 2.
Morgan: Yes.
LaToya: Because in Season 1, there's not really much to write home about, really.
Morgan: I mean, she—to be fair, she does get to be in, like, the first scene in the pilot.
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: Like, that is pretty dang iconic. But yeah, as a character, I definitely wasn't walking away from Angel—from my Buffy watch being like, ah, yes. Darla, the best character in the world. Like, even with her additional flashbacks in that show, like, most of my love for her and affection for her comes from, like, my time watching her on Angel. It's—she really gets to go all over the map. Like, what a gift to give to an actor. Like, Darla is such a—
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: She really just gets to do everything, you know? She gets to be evil, she gets to be good, she gets to be tortured, she gets to have fun. Like, it's all there. She gets to wear a bunch of beautiful dresses and hats. [laughs] In all of her flashbacks.
LaToya: And you know what?
Morgan: It's great.
LaToya: Big ups to The WB in general for giving Julie Benz stuff. Because her career before this, like—I don't think people would be like, well, that chick, she's gonna pull out these big performances, this good stuff. 'Cause it was also—this and Buffy and Angel, and the first season of Roswell, she had a pretty good role too, actually.
Morgan: Oh, great.
LaToya: And they, like, let her, you know, be more—'cause before this, she's like, the sidekick in Jawbreaker. Which, Jawbreaker rules and she's great—
Morgan: Yes.
LaToya: In Jawbreaker, she's hilarious. But like, you would not expect this performance out of that actor, basically, watching Jawbreaker.
Morgan: It's interesting. Like, with characters like Darla, like Spike, characters that, like, become—and like Wesley, too. That start as, like, guest stars and recurring guest stars and grow into something much larger and much more significant—is a kind of thing that can only happen in TV.
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: Is where you learn that someone you're working with is really talented and you have the opportunity to be able to promote them. And give them all sorts of stuff to do and see what works and see what doesn't. And she never falters, like, she's always—she's always just as good as she needs to be. And it's impressive, 'cause they ask quite a bit of her. And she has to do a lot of work. Like, if you don't buy her, you don't buy so many things about Angel. And you just buy them completely. And it's also a testament to, like, the chemistry and like, the—whatever kind of bond that they have. 'Cause like, their scenes together are always so—I think so deeply felt and good and well acted.
LaToya: But yeah, so she turns to dust in Angel's hands. And all that's left is this poor baby, on the wet alley ground.
Morgan: Yeah!
LaToya: And in the meantime, Holtz is coming. And he's got a crossbow.
Morgan: And Angel holds his son for the first time! Bundles him up in the coat that Fred hands him back. And you can just see it on his face. Like…he loves this kid. It's there already, and it's—I'm gonna cry. I'm gonna cry now. It's just, like, beautiful. And the way that he, like, stares down Holtz while, like, holding the baby. And there's this moment of like…there's, like, defiance in his eyes. There's the guilt, there's the idea that, like, obviously, he can't ask this guy, like, "I have a kid, don't hurt me." Because he did it to his kid, and he hurt him, and—
LaToya: He did it to his own baby, as well.
Morgan: His baby, yeah.
LaToya: Like, Angel wouldn't blame him if he did do it.
Morgan: But he…what else is he supposed to do? It's—you know, it's again the murky situation of like, none of us want to be here, but we are here. How do you keep going on, when you find yourself in these circumstances? So he just…looks at him until he puts his weapon down. And it…it got me. Boreanaz is great here.
LaToya: I agree.
Morgan: Yeah. I'm…very emotional. [laughs]
LaToya: I'm sorry.
Morgan: It's very good.
LaToya: It is, it's very good, very emotional. And I'm pretty sure you're gonna have a bunch of that for the rest of the season, so…
Morgan: Oh, yeah.
LaToya: Good luck!
Morgan: I'm gonna be a mess and a half. And then Sahjhan's, like, yelling at him, like, "This is your chance! You're supposed to show no mercy!" [both laugh]
LaToya: Great Sahjhan impression.
Morgan: Ahhh! [laughs] I have a scar! [both laugh] These are all things he says. Yeah.
LaToya: Yeah. Holtz says, "I swore that I would show no mercy. And I won't." Fade to black. And so, he's gonna be doing something worse. This was—he's—he's still not forgiven Angel.
Morgan: Yeah. Like, I don't know, like, at this point, when he's just like—essentially Holtz is being like, yeah, I'm gonna fuck with this kid, essentially. And I'm like, uhh, no thanks, sir. Like, fuck off.
LaToya: I think the thing that hurts this but it also, like—you can't show that. It's like, we don't see what happened to Holtz's baby. We know Holtz had a baby, but like, they…they dwell on the Sarah, turning her into a vampire thing. But like, what exactly did they do to Baby Holtz? And we're assuming obviously that they killed the baby. But this is still The WB. It's still, you know, network television.
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: They're not gonna show what they did to that baby.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And that kind of creates a disconnect. Because again, they're dwelling on the Sarah stuff, but like…you almost forget that he did have a baby. It's kind of almost a throwaway line in the previous episode.
Morgan: Yes.
LaToya: But like, he had a newborn that they also killed.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Like, that's…the combination of both that and like, turning Sarah into a vampire?
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: Like, those are horrific.
Morgan: Absolutely. And it sets up this, like—this possibility for, like, Holtz to get some, like, eye-for-an-eye justice now with Angel's child. But obviously, like, given everything that Angel has said to Holtz. Like, he used to be this good man and used to be this person with morals. And it's…look, I totally understand wanting to hurt someone as badly as they've hurt you. But if you're willing to kill a baby, [laughing] you're a pretty garbage person. And like, you know, Holtz doesn't seem to be in a position to reckon with what it would mean—you know. He doesn't seem to be in a position to care about what that would mean—
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: By him doing that.
LaToya: 'Cause again, he—in his mind, he hasn't traded anything for this opportunity to kill Angel. Even though clearly, it's metaphorically his soul, is what he has traded.
Morgan: Yeah. And he doesn't seem to care, which…yikes.
LaToya: Yeah. Not great, Bob.
Morgan: I would have to agree, Bob. Not great, Bob. [both laugh]
LaToya: So now we've come to the end of this episode.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And it's been a long day for Angel the vampire and you know, his wacky sidekicks…
LaToya and Morgan: Yadda-yadda-yadda. [Morgan laughs]
LaToya: So now I think all of them together should kinda just…gather around, wherever the television is in the Hyperion.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And they should watch a little episode from a little WB show. Hit the music.
NOTES: [DUBBA-DUBBA-WB jingle plays] Angel is a vampire Does he even like TV? "I think he'll like The WB." They got that hot teen drama To ease the pain and trauma And here's the episode that he Needs to see (aw yeah!)
LaToya: So what WB show do you think I'm going to suggest, Morgan? You can guess. So many!
Morgan: Gosh. I mean, there are so many. I mean, I'm assuming something about fatherhood or something about revenge? And I'm like, well, they have a lot of babies in Charmed. I can't guess, I don't know. The Mountain? [both laugh] The Mountain again?
LaToya: [laughing] Just weeks in a row of The Mountain. Just thirteen weeks, every episode of The Mountain.
Morgan: [laughing] I would love that, if you just picked a different—if the segment stopped being about WB watch and became which episode of The Mountain does Angel need to watch?
LaToya: Maybe later.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Maybe later in the show, we'll do that. But The WB episode I've chosen for Angel to watch is…Angel Season 2, Episode 5, Dear Boy.
Morgan: Ah, a very good episode!
LaToya: Yeah. I mean, again, Angel just needs to look into his past. Look how far they've come, basically. As Rob Thomas would say, let's see how far they've come. Yeah.
Morgan: I love that for him. I hope he loves watching that episode. [laughs] 'Cause I certainly did.
LaToya: And you know, Darla tells him, "God doesn't want you, but I still do." Angel tries, you know, to do a bunch of lecturing Darla on what having a soul would really mean and blah, blah, blah.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And he's just so holier than thou and blah, blah, blah and he's obsessed with her.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: But like, compare the way they interacted there—even like, when he was trying to help her in Season 2, like, in The Trial.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Now compare it to now in Season 3, with all they've gone through. Like, right now, you got the intimacy and the regret and the understanding. And like, they're on the same page and it's just heartbreaking. And it really is just so far from what we've—any version of Angel and Darla we've seen, basically. And it's just…comparing that to what we have now—
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: It's a beautiful story and I think Angel should know that. Darla is no longer alive, but she has given him the son and this beautiful story.
Morgan: Yeah, and she's—and she has herself, like, managed to grow and learn some things and complete, like, certain journeys of her own. So even though it's, like, tragic that she dies and that she can't experience, like, a future with her child. Like, she got to—she learned to, like, regret the things she'd done. She learned to put something ahead of herself. And she learned, like, to give a shit and that is so beautiful. RIP, baby girl.
LaToya: And it's just a reminder that even if you kill a woman off of a show, it doesn't mean you're fridging them. Because she has double died, obviously.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: But sometimes you can be double fridged, as I learned from finally watching Season 2 of The Boys. [both laugh] But yeah. That is the episode I want Angel to watch. All of them to watch.
NOTES: [DUBBA-DUBBA-WB jingle plays] Angel is a vampire Does he even like TV? "I think he'll like The WB." They got that hot teen drama To ease the pain and trauma And here's the episode that he Needs to see (aw yeah!)
LaToya: We are…chugging along in Season 3.
Morgan: Gosh, we really are. I can't—
LaToya: The next episode is titled Dad, which gives us nothing, because we know Angel's a dad.
Morgan: Yeah. [laughs]
LaToya: Every episode title should tell you exactly what happens in the episode.
Morgan: That's the truth and that is what I believe.
LaToya: I believe that you should tell them where they can find us on the internet.
Morgan: You guys can follow us on Twitter and Instagram @AngelOnTopCast. And if you would like to send us an email, you would be very welcome to do so and can email us at angelontoppodcast@gmail.com. And you're also very welcome to come support us on Patreon, which we would really appreciate.
LaToya: Yes. I guess you can find me on Twitter @lafergs. Or don't. I'm trying to get cancelled. Leave me alone.
Morgan: [laughs] You can find me on Twitter @LorganMutich, or any other social networking platform you want. That's what my username will be. I'm not trying to get cancelled, but I might get cancelled faster than LaToya, just purely on accident. [both laugh] [Angel On Top theme plays] ["River" plays] But it don't snow here It stays pretty green Make a lot of money Then I'm going to quit this crazy scene Oh, I wish I had a river I could skate away on Oh, I wish I had a river I made my baby cry…