Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 5.01: Buffy vs. Dracula
Kristin: Today's episode was brought to you by Buffy. The Vampire Slayer, but also the comforter. Buffy is a company that makes bedding that's earth-friendly and cruelty free. And their latest product, The Breeze, is a comforter made entirely from 100% eucalyptus fiber to regulate temperature and keep you cool and comfortable all night long. Especially if you don't sleep next to a vampire as your means of temperature regulation. And Buffy comforters offers a free trial, so if you don't love it, you can return it at no cost. For $20 off your Buffy comforter, visit buffy.co, that's buffy.co, and enter code "Buffering." Buffy.co and enter code "Buffering" for $20 off.
NOTES: [CHIME]
Jenny: Oh hey!
Kristin: Oh my gosh, hello.
Jenny: I don't know if you remember us, from before.
Kristin: I don't even remember you! Who the hell is this? [chuckles]
Jenny: Well...I'm Jenny, Owen, Youngs?
Kristin: [laughs] I'm Kristin Russo, in case you forgot who I am. And we've been gone for like, a hundred years. And we're back.
Jenny: Less gone and more just, like...stirring other soup pots momentarily.
Kristin: Ah, yes, soup pots that we will tell you about very soon, as a matter of fact.
Jenny: But first! We must! Say some things. Like thanks for an incredible live show at World Cafe Live, World Cafe Live and people of the greater Philadelphia area!
Kristin: [laughs] The show, if you missed it, was on Friday the 13th under the light of a full fucking moon.
Jenny: Very spooky.
Kristin: Mm-hmm.
Jenny: We were blessed in a surprised fashion with a totally on-theme menu including such culinary delights at the Less Confusing Waffles, Once More with Chicken, and We Attack the Mayor with Hummus.
Kristin: So good! So good.
Jenny: And we also wanna thank the incredible folks from Amalgam Comics & Coffeehouse who came and tabled at the show with their incredible selection of hot, hot comics.
Kristin: Yes, if you live in Philadelphia or near Philadelphia or find yourself in Philadelphia, stop by Amalgam. They rule, and as a matter of fact, Jenny, we left them with two signed posters—
Jenny: [quietly] Oh my god.
Kristin: In their store—
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: So if you go into Amalgam, if you're one of the first two people to get to Amalgam and you say, "Mom!" you'll get one of those posters.
Jenny: Yeah, so definitely go in there and say "Mom" as hard as you can and snag a poster if they are still in the house. And also, we wanna thank our incredible, glorious special guests, Ian Carlos Crawford of Slayerfest98, and Joanna Robinson of Vanity Fair and A Cast of Kings and The Storm and a million other things. And also, oh! A little podcast we'll talk about in a second called The Boiler Room.
Kristin: Ooh! Wonder what that is.
Jenny: And we wanna thank, as always, our queen and yours, Kate Leth, who made us an incredible video Fashion Watch that you will be able to watch soon. And it will kill you. Kristin, where can they watch that?
Kristin: Well, you can watch that over on our Patreon page. It's not behind any paywalls of any kind, if you just go to patreon.com/bufferingcast or go to our website, bufferingthevampireslayer.com and click on "Patreon," it'll be up there, one of the top posts if you're listening to this in real time. And Kate—you really wanna watch the video. We've put some of the audio from the video in this episode, so you'll hear it. But it's really a visual experience, wouldn't you say?
Jenny: It truly is. Yes, a multimedia extravaganza.
Kristin: [laughs] We are doing our next live show—fucking get this, guys—San Francisco at the Brava Theater. It's our first time in the Bay Area. We're going to be taping Fool For Love, which is an episode, to say the least, on December 6th. Our Patrons got first crack at a selection of those tickets, but the public tickets for this event go on sale today, September 18, 1 PM Eastern. The ticketing link will go up on the website, bufferingthevampireslayer.com, just click on "Events," you'll see the event there, the link will be there. Also, our social media, we will share that link the minute it goes live. We don't know what's gonna happen, but if we look to our history to inform this, you wanna grab those tickets pretty much when they go up, because we don't know how quickly they're gonna go.
Jenny: Yes, please join us in the haunted city of San Francisco for a magical live taping! If you know what's good for you. There'll be lots of yelling, as you'll be able to sess out what that'll be like when you listen to this episode.
Kristin: Mm-hmm!
Jenny: Oh hell yeah. Oh my god, it's gonna be so fun! We're doing so many live events.
Kristin: I know! We are.
Jenny: This is...what a time to be alive.
Kristin: A- live. [both laugh] Jenny, what's been going on with you over this four-month hiatus? What have you been working on?
Jenny: Oh my gosh, I'm so glad that you asked. I've been working on a ton of stuff and two things of that ton, I can say, is that I've been releasing new music—new Jenny Owen Youngs music that I'm really, really, really excited about. I have a couple songs out right now that you can hear, Vampire Weeknight and Living Room. And there's gonna be more on the way and the vinyl and CD preorder is live on my website, jennyowenyoungs.com. And you can hear those two songs that are out on iTunes and Spotify and Apple Music and Bandcamp, wherever you get digital music you should be able to find them. And I'm so, so, so excited about those recordings and for people to hear them. So check them out, please. And also—
Kristin: Wait, before you get to your also, I just wanna say that A. the music is phenomenal, of course, but I just wanna give you a shout, Jenny, because your fucking merch is so great. And I wanna let people know that all of that new merch is in your store, which is on Hello, which means that you can grab our merch and Jenny's merch in the same cart, which is pretty cool.
Jenny: Oh, hell yeah, you can. You can get a Forever Youngs t-shirt and a Smash the Demon Lizard Patriarchy hoosie-bobbit [Kristin laughs] in one tidy shipping price. Absolutely, that's—all my regular merch is on Hello. It's just the Nightshift EP preorder store that is separate and is living on my website. Which is not under that shipping umbrella, but regardless, okay! The other thing, the other thing that I've been doing that I can say, is I've been making a new podcast with the incredible Helen Zaltzman of The Allusionist and Answer Me This. She is so smart and hilarious, and we've been making a podcast called Veronica Mars Investigations. Where we're investigating a television program called Veronica Mars.
Kristin: You've heard of it!
Jenny: Yeah, we've got, like, five episodes out so far and it's really, really fun. And Helen's so great and we're having a total blast. So please, please check out that pod wherever you get this pod.
Kristin: Yes, and there's a lot of crossover in Veronica Mars. A lot of Buffy alum are in that show, so it's pretty fun to—
Jenny: Oh, at least eight or nine people. Including the guy who played Balthazar, the hot tub demon.
Kristin: [laughs] Um, I also have a new podcast. It doesn't have quite as much crossover, though Harmony and Kendra do both make appearances in My So-Called Life. I'm doing a podcast rewatching all 19 episodes of that show, which is my favorite show of my childhood. It really was the most meaningful thing of my high school years to me, and I'm doing it with Joanna Robinson, and it is so much fun. So you can check us out at The Boiler Room. We're @boilerroomcast on all social media. And we're also just about five episodes in. We're neck and neck with our episodes, Jenny.
Jenny: Oh my gosh, race you to the—well...
Kristin: [laughs] I'm definitely gonna win!
Jenny: There's a few more episodes of Veronica Mars than there are of My So-Called Life.
Kristin: [laughs] I also wanna let you know that for the first time ever, I'm bringing my all-ages Pride party to Atlanta, Georgia. The Tegan and Sara Foundation has sponsored us, and in New York City, this is our seventh year. We did it in June, it's so much fun and we're bringing it to the south for the first time. You can find all of those details at allagespride.com or by going to my website, kristinnnoeline.com. We will be in Atlanta on October 12. We'll have youth poets, we will have music from Be Steadwell. I will be there hosting alongside Ashanti LaShawn, who is an amazing human and also a big Buffy fan. So I'm sure we'll get into a little Buffy while we're there too. And I hope to see any of you who are near to Atlanta there with us on October 12. It's 2 PM, and again, you can find all of the information at allagespride.com.
Jenny: As someone who has attended and also performed at a number of your all ages Pride events, I just wanna say, that they are so special and I love them so much. And everybody should go because you will have so much fun.
Kristin: Aw, thanks, Jenny. They are fun, they're very sweet. And one other thing that I worked on over this summer with an incredible team of people is an e-care package that I released through the website that I run called mykidisgay.com. It's an e-care package for parents and loved ones of trans youth. I say youth, but it's really for parents of trans people of any age. It's a package that gives them advice and essays, a music playlist that Laura Jane Grace curated for us, gorgeous imagery—
Jenny: Hell yeah.
Kristin: I know. It's so special. And it includes some incredible worksheets that I think are critical in having parents explore their own relationship to gender as they understand their kid. And you can find all of that at mykidisgay.com. It's really a very special package that I'm so proud to have worked on amongst so many incredibly powerful and wonderful people. So you can check that out and send it—share it far and wide, please, because it's a resource that I think a lot of people need. And a lot of those people who need it would not ask for it or look for it, so the more we share it, the more those people will find it. Whew! Well, Jenny. Now that I've said all that, I'm going to dip—
Jenny: Anything spooky happen in the last four months?
Kristin: You know, I'm so glad that you asked. So many things, in fact. I've really opened up a can of the spookiest worms with— [laughs]
Jenny: I love spooky worms! Oh my gosh.
Kristin: Yes, spooky worms are really—
Jenny: Imagine a worm in a ghost Halloween costume.
Kristin: It's literally what I imagined, Jenny.
Jenny: Hell yeah.
Kristin: Like, as soon as we said "spooky worms," I was like, oh my god, a tiny sheet with two worm eye holes.
Jenny: [makes haunting "wooo!" sound] Hell yeah.
Kristin: [laughs] So, yeah. Without further ado, the season's first... [Spooky music plays] Spooky news!
Kristin: Jenny.
Jenny: Yo.
Kristin: I don't know if you know about the patriarchy, but the patriarchy includes such things as, you know, heteronormativity, assuming that all skeletons are straight. But I will tell you what—
Jenny: Ha! Ha!
Kristin: [laughs] They are not. And very—
Jenny: What?!
Kristin: Very recently—so these two ancient skeletons were discovered in Italy, in 2009. They were dubbed the Lovers of Modena, and they have been synonymous with heterosexual romance because their little bony fingers were intertwined—
Jenny: Aw!
Kristin: When the skeletons were discovered and of course, the archaeologists who discovered them were like, look at these lovers, they must be a straight couple. Well, guess what?
Jenny: [victoriously] Ha-ha!
Kristin: Guess you what? They finally were able to use the teeth—teeth are always included in spooky news—of these skeletons to determine that both of these skeletons were men. So we're starting our spooky news off with gay fuckin' skeletons. You're welcome!
Jenny: [singsong] Hell yeah! [Spooky music] Spooky news!
Jenny: Okay, also, we're about to get into it, but just a couple more things. In case you missed it, our interviews with, oh my god, Seth Green, and oh my goddess, Charisma Carpenter, went up this summer. Check them out, they're in the feed.
Kristin: Yeah, they were so much fun to talk to, and if you missed them because we were on break, go back and get 'em. Last but not least, we have a new sweatshirt in our store. There's a new design by Kristine Tuna, who did our logo and who has re-envisioned our logo. It's on the back of this gorgeous zip hoodie in our store now. Also, if you live in the UK or greater Europe, we now have a store in the UK for you so you do not have to pay exorbitant shipping fees. There's a limited amount of products, but you can go to our website, bufferingthevampireslayer.com. If you hover on "Store" now, you'll see the main store, which is the US-based store, and you'll see the UK store. So you can go on over there, and you can get cheaper shipping. Congratulations!
Jenny: Hurray!
Kristin: Last thing before we roll into this live episode. We are back today and that means that Angel On Top hosted by Brittany Ashley and Laura Zak—they are entering Season 2 of Angel—is going to return to your ears next Wednesday. So Jenny, are you ready to be back?  
Jenny: I'm ready to scream and scream and scream.
Kristin: Alright, let's do this.
NOTES: [Buffering theme] [cheering and applause]
Jenny: [yelling] Oh! Oh, hello and welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast— [cheers and applause] a podcast where we're watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, one at a time, in chronological order, spoiler-free. I'm Jenny Owen Youngs.
NOTES: [applause]
Kristin: And I am Kristin Russo. [applause] And this week, we are fucking back! [cheers] Oh my god! We're talking about Season 5, Episode 1, Buffy Vs. Dracula. Now, if you're here with us in Philadelphia—hi, Philly, what's up?!
NOTES: [cheers and applause]
Jenny: Still the loudest city in our collection.
Kristin: Yeah. [more cheers] If you're here in Philly, you know that we are dressed up, but if you're not, you've probably seen it on the internet. But we are dressed up as Buffy and Dracula for your entertainment.
NOTES: [cheers]
Jenny: Ta-da!
Kristin: Which is why we love Buffy the Vampire Slayer, because we get to buy red pleather pants and capes, right, Jenny?
NOTES: [cheers]
Jenny: Yes. Line item in the budget. Pleather pants. Boob windows. [crowd laughs] Another set of wooden stakes, Kristin keeps giving them away. [crowd laughs]
Kristin: I know, I was like, I think I gave all the stakes away. I don't have one for the show. Anyway! Back to the intro. You should stay tuned at the end of this podcast every other week for an original song written by Jenny Owen Youngs, and this week, co-written and co-performed by Chris Farren. [cheers and applause] Recapping the episode that we are discussing.
Jenny: [takes deep, dramatic breath] Buffy Vs. Dracula was written by Marti Noxon. [cheers] Directed by David Solomon. [fewer cheers, laughter] And originally aired September 26, 2000.
Kristin: Did you wanna talk about your birthday?
Jenny: No, I'm good.
Kristin: I just—listen. I'm sure that some of you follow us on social media, @bufferingcast, thank you. But if you do not, tonight is Friday the 13th. [cheers] You did not need to follow us on social media to learn that fact. [laughter]
Jenny: That's public domain information! [crowd laughs]
Kristin: It's also a full moon! [cheers and a few howls] You guys! Oh, wow!
NOTES: [crowd laughs]
Jenny: No prompt needed.
Kristin: You guys, if you didn't see us freak the fuck out on social media yesterday, we learned that the last time it was a full moon on Friday the 13th was October 25, or something like that, 2000. Which was like, three weeks after this episode aired in real time! [cheers] So we have melded the full moons together...! I don't know what it means, but just like, everybody, be safe tonight. You know what I mean? [crowd laughs] Anyway, this is the one—we're gonna be here for like eight hours tonight, everybody's [inaudible] [cheers] We've missed you, you've missed us, we've missed each other. There's a whole lot of missing going on. This is the one—you probably know, but I'm gonna read you the IMDB description—where the one and only Dracula—I think Dracula may have written it himself. [crowd laughs] The one and only Dracula makes his way to Sunnydale and immediately has everyone enchanted. Even Buffy might not be able to resist his charms.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: Dracula definitely fucking wrote this. [everyone laughs] Okay, Jenny, you can start everybody off because I'm wearing a turtleneck sweater and underneath it, I have a tank top, and a turtleneck is not appropriate stage attire, so I have to take it off while you talk.
NOTES: [cheers]
Jenny: [yells] Wow! Apparently not, apparently they wanna focus.
Kristin: Or we can all just sit here while I sexily take my turtleneck— [cheers]
Jenny: Wait, wait, wait! After you take that off, do you want me to pull... [cheers] Should I pull off one of your boots real slow? [crowd laughs and cheers] Isn't that what comes after the turtleneck?
Kristin: Season 5, we're getting fucking wild! [laughter] Alright. So anyway, speaking of wild, wanna talk about Riley's elbow? [laughter, long pause] Come on, I know you wanna talk about Riley's elbow—
Jenny: It looks great.
Kristin: So Buffy's in bed, we see Riley's elbow, whatever. And then we see—are you thinking about Riley's elbow?
Jenny: No, I'm thinking about how Buffy wakes up in the middle of the night, sneaks out of bed, runs to the cemetery, kills a vampire, sneaks back into her bedroom under cover of darkness, slides between the sheets and resumes being spooned...by the tannest love interest she's had so far.
NOTES: [crowd laughs and cheers]
Kristin: And perhaps, ever will have.
Jenny: Maybe!
Kristin: Perhaps. So here's the thing, you said that they spooned, Jenny, but I—I don't mean to make this whole episode about Riley's elbow. But when Buffy gets back into bed, she lays her head upon Riley's bone of his elbow. [crowd laughs] To go to sleep. And so I have a question for you, which is, if you get to have Riley forever, Jenny.
Jenny: Even I don't want Riley forever, but go on!
NOTES: [crowd laughs]
Kristin: Uncovering the truth! Okay, if you could have your way with Riley...what do you want from Riley? [laughs]
Jenny: Just toss the ol' pigskin around.
Kristin: Okay. [crowd laughs and cheers] Okay, alright, if you could "toss the old pigskin around"—
Jenny: Do you know how...erotic every football thing I can think of right now sounds? [laughter] Just looking for a guy with a nice tight spiral. [laughter] I'm so sorry! But I thought it and then I had to tell you and I won't say it again.
Kristin: I mean, this question I had for you has been—you know, simply undone by the funniness of the earlier point, but—
Jenny: Please—I'm sorry, please, please.
Kristin: No, it's okay, I'm gonna persevere. My question to you is if you could toss the old pigskin around Riley's tight spiral... [crowd laughs] what you had—
Jenny: This is a family podcast!
Kristin: Listen! But what you had to do to get what you would like from Riley was that every night for the rest of your life, you have to sleep on his elbow... [crowd laughs] would you do it?
Jenny: Maybe his elbow is more comfortable than it looks.
Kristin: Isn't that, like, a sum of Jenny's entire opinion on Riley? [crowd laughs] So now that we're 18 hours into the podcast, we get to the credits!
Jenny: Cool!
Kristin: We have new credits.
NOTES: [a few cheers]
Jenny: Anya's in them.
Kristin: And— [cheers] what did you say?
Jenny: I said, Anya's in them.
Kristin: Anya's in them.
NOTES: [louder cheers]
Jenny: Yes, yes, yes, yes.
Kristin: Anya's in them and, yes. And also, we get a lot more witches in the credits. [cheers]
Jenny: A lot more witches, a lot more spells.
Kristin: A lot more spells. Okay, so speaking of tossing ye olde pigskin around. Jenny, I need a minute to queue up a couple of things here on my phone. Okay, so, we get—we're at the beach. It's California, nobody fucking goes to the beach. Which is why I think this is the only time we'll ever see them at the beach, probably.
Jenny: Yeah. Once in seven years.
Kristin: Yeah, it's true, it's true. So we're at the beach, and everyone is assigned to appropriate roles, I think. I think Xander is looking hot. [pause] I know, I know! [a few cheers] But he's looking pretty hot. He's, like, gotten some muscle, he's wearing a tank. Anyway, whatever. Anya's looking good.
NOTES: [loud cheers]
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Okay, we see where you're all at. [crowd laughs] The witches are fully clothed, reading tarot. [crowd laughs and cheers] Right on the fucking mark, right?
Jenny: You know how it is.
Kristin: I always read tarot in my flannel on the beach. Humming a Tegan and Sara, what else am I doing? Um, Riley and Buffy are playing some beach football. Aren't they, Jenny?
Jenny: They are.
Kristin: Are you not gonna say anything about this scene because it doesn't support your thesis? [crowd laughs]
Jenny: No. My thesis is just, Riley's not as bad as everyone who needs to shit on Riley all the time seems to think Riley is— [applause]
Kristin: Okay, okay! Alright, alright.
Jenny: This is a—we're about to seed something that I'm sure you're gonna love talking about very much.
Kristin: So they're throwing the football back and forth, and Riley's—literally, like, his first words of the season... [Jenny and crowd laugh] are to tell Buffy that she throws like a girl. To which, I say...
NOTES: [crowd boos] [THE PATRIARCHY jingle starts]
Kristin: Thunderclap!
NOTES: [THE PATRIARCHY jingle plays; spooky music] The patriarchy! [thunder clap, evil laughter]
NOTES: [The crowd with the jingle: "The patriarchy!"]
Kristin: Oh my god, it was like a patriarchy wave. [crowd laughs] Okay. And then, I'm saving the Riley jingle for later.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: Okay! So. We're at the beach.
Jenny: Yeah. You like seeing Riley get spiked in the face with a football real hard. So hard that it deflates! [crowd laughs and someone yells, "Yeah!"]
Kristin: Yeah. Riley gets slammed by a fucking football, because that's what happens when you tell somebody that they throw like a girl, 'cause it's wrong in so
many ways [Jenny: Uh-huh, uh-huh] and I won't go into them here. And then of course, the last thing that happens at the beach is that Willow uses her incredible prowess—
Jenny: She can just make fire, out of nothing, all of a sudden! She's been busy between seasons.
Kristin: Willow's like, yo, I've been queer for like, uh, a few months? Boom! Fire. [crowd laughs and cheers] That's how it works!
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Oh, and then, the CGI storm of hell rolls in. [laughs]
Jenny: Spared no expense.
Kristin: None. They were literally like, is there a filter that says rain? Just drag that over the top of—that's good. Then we go to a spooky castle.
Jenny: Yeah, some world-weary delivery gentlemen are unloading a big box of dirt. And then they get murdered for their trouble. [crowd laughs] That's too bad, I felt like we were just getting to know them.
Kristin: It is. Also, like, one of the dudes is dressed in a very reasonable rain slicker, and the other dude is not wearing one. And the other dude is like, "I'm getting soaked, man!" And it's like, first of all, it's pouring, of course you are. Second of all, why didn't you wear your rain slicker, sir? [crowd laughs]
Jenny: Uh-huh, uh-huh.
Kristin: I know, we have a lot to talk about. I shouldn't be focusing on rain slickers.
Jenny: Why don't you take a moment to focus on the world's largest scanner?
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Did you see that thing? It was about the size of Giles' car. [crowd laughs]
Kristin: Also, I'm pretty sure the first line in this scene at Giles' house is "let's get scannin'." [laughter] Also at one point, Willow says "labeling your amulets and
indexing your diaries." [Someone yells: "Oh yeah!"] I know! It makes— [laughter] Keep going, Willow.
Jenny: Mm-hmm!
Kristin: Okay so, let's be real. By Season 7, it's just gonna be like us doing stand-up about Buffy. We're not even gonna talk about the episodes anymore. But so in this scene, Giles is like, hey Willow, I've been around for four seasons, and out of all of the characters, I know who can keep a secret the best. [crowd laughs]
Jenny: Yeah, it's definitely Willow!
Kristin: Definitely Willow! So Giles is like, I know I'm not needed anymore. [voice cracks]
[crowd: "Awww!"]
Jenny: Which is...just not true. It's patently untrue, sir!
Kristin: It is. And he tells Willow that he's gonna be going back to London—to London? Is that where he's from? I said London—
Jenny: Yes...?
Kristin: He's from the UK.
Jenny: Suddenly your uncertainty is making me feel very uncertain.
Kristin: Now, I know that Giles has couched it like, he needs to go back 'cause he isn't really needed. But I also just wonder a little bit if maybe he and Olivia have been exchanging nudes. You know what I mean? [cheers] I just think, like, maybe Giles is like, "I'm not needed but also, Olivia's back there?"
Jenny: Mm-hmm.
Kristin: Also, Giles is drinking out of a fucking teacup. Where the fuck is the green mug?
Jenny: Honestly.
Kristin: Green mug watch begins. Season 5, Episode 1.
Jenny: Okay. Are you ready...for some research that I did? [crowd affirms]
Kristin: I'm ready.
Jenny: Okay. So...Buffy's having dinner with her mom. We're kind of learning some exposition-y, like, oh, Buffy's been home all summer and now she's getting ready to go back to school and it's gonna be so quiet around here without Buffy. And can we hang out and go get ice cream? But no, Buffy's gotta go patrol. You know. And then, Buffy is in the freaking cemetery. Fighting a vampire. And we'll talk about the stuff that's actually relevant to the episode in a second. But I wish to communicate to you...that while she's fighting this vampire, she does a freaking move. [Kristin giggles] Yeah, she does a—mmm. She does a Rey Mysterio Jr. special move. [crowd laughs] Then I watched a bunch of Rey Mysterio Jr. signature moves compilation videos on YouTube, so that I could determine the name of the—'cause we all know that Rey Mysterio Jr.'s number one move is the 619, which is the area code of where he's from. And that move consists of him kind of like, beating his opponent into a stupor so they're kind of like, against the ropes, facing out of the wrestling ring. And then he comes running at full tilt up to the ropes of the wrestling ring—you know, there's like, one, two, three, right? He grabs the top two and... [crowd laughs and cheers] whips himself 360 degrees around, basically, in a circle, kicking his opponent in the face. He's like totally parallel to the ground, it's very beautiful. Now you know that, if you didn't know it already. But the move that we're gonna talk about today is actually called the Tilt-A-Whirl Headscissors Takedown. [cheers] And what that entails is Buffy, or Rey Mysterio Jr., wrapping their thighs around the neck of their opponent, so they're kind of—their opponent is standing and then they're kind of sitting on their shoulders. Buffy's sitting on the shoulders of the vampire, facing him. And then she, like, swirls herself around, pivoting while holding herself fixed to the body as she rotates. But as that happens, she slides down the neck so that by the time she whips around in a circle, she's gone from holding the neck with her thighs to— [crowd laughs] to holding the neck with her ankles. And then she uses her ankles to—and all of the momentum of her body, to whip her opponent, bra-da-da-da-da! Across the cemetery. And now you know the most important thing that happens in this episode. [cheers at length] How do you feel about it? How do you feel about this knowledge which I have imparted onto thee regarding the Tilt-A-Whirl Headscissors Takedown! [more cheers] Yes! Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes.
Kristin: I feel great about it, Jenny. Jenny, I wanna say that I am—I'm honored to co-host a podcast with one of the world's biggest wrestling fans.
Jenny: Uhh...
Kristin: I think you're great.
Jenny: I think you're great too.
Kristin: Okay, so after the fucking wrestling move of the century—
Jenny: The Tilt-A-Whirl Headscissors Takedown. [crowd laughs]
Kristin: Which I wanna say, hold on, let me reference my notes here, because this is a new stunt person for Buffy. This is Michele Waitman. Yeah, we had Sophia Crawford, her Seasons 1 through—applause for Michele Waitman! [applause and cheers]
Jenny: Please.
Kristin: And I think you can really see the difference in the fighting style. Right out of the gate, Season 5, Episode 1. Which is kinda fun and cool. Everybody's like, "uh, do you think this is a podcast about a TV show? Keep making jokes!" [laughter] No but anyhow, after the amazing fight moves. Who do we see?
Jenny: Who should materialize out of thin air? But some hot guy in a cape, with shoulder-length hair— [cheers]
Kristin: Wow! I'm sorry, um, if you're listening at home, Jenny just took her hair down.
Jenny: And we're all looking at the TV like, who is he? And you're all looking at the table like, who is he? [crowd laughs]
Kristin: I really thought you were gonna say, "who is t hat guy?" [laughter] So he's like, "Very impressive hunt." He's already mansplaining, I'm just gonna fucking say it. [cheers]
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Yeah, it's a fucking impressive hunt, she's a goddamn vampire slayer! [applause] And then she's like, "Do you know what a slayer is?" and he fucking says—
Jenny: How dare he!
Kristin: "Do you ?" [crowd laughs] Drac, man. Bringing that ancient patriarchy up front and center. But then, one of my favorite parts is when he introduces himself. And Jenny looked over my shoulder at my notes and laughed very loudly, because
I've spelled it out. [Jenny laughs] I am—I've spelled his name: D-L-R-T-S-A-C-U-L-A. To try to encapsulate the way he pronounces his own name. He's like, "I'm... [slurs first part of word] Dracula ." [crowd laughs]
Jenny: You know, as somebody who's frequently struggling to speak around fangs that I've inserted into my mouth—
Kristin: Oh yeah, where are your fangs?
Jenny: I wanna just extend my empathy and sympathy to Dracula in this moment. It's not easy.
Kristin: Yeah, you're right. [laughs] I'm not giving any credit to Dracula. But...I mean, maybe a little bit in a little while. But Buffy, in a very Buffy fashion, is like, "get out!" [laughter] "Shut the fuck up!" is what she would have said if they weren't on a network television show.
Jenny: Um, can I—
Kristin: Oh, yes.
Jenny: I'm sorry, I just wanted to tell you and everyone—each and every one of you. Listen to me, please! [crowd laughs] That, um... [clears throat] according to Wikipedia. [Kristin laughs] The vampire who was going to show Buffy a darker side of herself was originally envisioned as, and I quote, "just another vampire, who rode a horse, and was all cool," says Marti Noxon. [crowd laughs and claps]
Kristin: I mean...oh my god.
Jenny: She's not wrong—like, that sounds pretty good. I'd watch that show.
Kristin: Marti Noxon describing what she wants out of Dracula is like me trying to describe anything sports related. [laughter] I'm like, you know, it's like—there's balls and sweat. Sorry. [crowd laughs]
Jenny: Mm-hmm.
Kristin: I literally tried to take it away from "balls," and went to "sweat." [crowd laughs]
Jenny: I mean, that's what's closest, I guess.
Kristin: I know. Alright! Anyhow! We have a couple of special fucking guests here tonight. [applause]
Jenny: Yes, very special guests!
Kristin: And I would like to bring onto the stage the host of another Buffy podcast called Slayerfest98, Ian Carlos Crawford! [applause]
Ian: Hi.
Kristin: Hi, Ian!
Ian: Hi.
Kristin: How's it going?
Ian: Alright. Hi, everyone.
Kristin: I appreciate the fact that since the two queer women that host this show had to dress up in costume, therefore could not wear our flannels, you wore yours. [laughter]
Jenny: Holding it down!
Kristin: Thank you so much.
Ian: Thank you for having me.
Kristin: Thank you for being here! You live close to here, right?
Ian: I do, yeah. I only live, like, 30 minutes away.
Kristin: Yeah, so it's like, just a quick scoot over to talk about vampires.
Ian: Yeah. Well, slayers.
Kristin: Slayers.
Ian: Yeah.
Kristin: Oh, you don't want to talk about [inaudible, Ian laughs] Well, so—okay so, Ian, you—I emailed Ian. It's not a big deal but we have each other's email addresses and phone numbers. [laughter]
Ian: She has left me unread. You haven't text me back. [laughter]
Kristin: I'm a Sagittarius. [cheers; someone yells "Hell yeah!"] I don't know a lot about astrology, but what I do know is that one time I read that Sagittariuses never text people back and I was like, fuck!
Jenny: [laughs] True, it's true!
Kristin: True! I know.
Jenny: You're in a Sag' sandwich. What's your sun sign?
Ian: Uh, I don't know?
Kristin: What?!
Ian: I'm an Aquarius?
Jenny: You're an Aquarius!
Ian: Is that sun sign?
Jenny: Yeah, that's your sun sign.
Ian: Oh, okay.
Kristin: Yeah, yeah. That's the one that everybody knows, you're an Aquarius.
Jenny: Beautiful.
Kristin: [sings] Aquarius!
Jenny: Okay, no. No.
Kristin: Okay so, Ian, when I emailed you, I said, "Ian, is there a particular part that you wanna talk about?" and you were like, "Yo, one of my favorite scenes—" Also, you fucking love this episode.
Ian: I do.
Kristin: And this is one of your favorite scenes. So what's up? Tell us!
Ian: I think this scene encapsulates everything that makes Buffy fucking wonderful. [quietly] Am I allowed to curse? I just—people always ask that on my podcast, and I was like, wait, I didn't ask that.
Kristin: [laughs] You can literally just say "fuck" up here for ten minutes and it'll be fine.
Ian: I won't, but that is a good offer.
Kristin: It'd probably get us good press, you know? "New experimental podcast." [laughter]
Ian: Yeah, I don't know, I think that it encapsulates everything I love about Buffy. Like, Dracula's there being all like, "I am Dracula." And then she's like, "oh my god, get out!" And for me, that's like, oh, this is why I love this show because they can have this serious...character—I don't know, do we even want to call him a monster? He's like, barely a threat. He reminds me of like, a soap opera villain. I don't know. [crowd laughs]
Kristin: He's a threat in his thrall, Ian. You know? He might not kill you, he'll woo you. [laughter]
Ian: [laughs] And I just—for me, that's perfect. Buffy's not taking him seriously for one moment and he's taking himself uber seriously. Yeah, I love that.
Kristin: So, Ian.
Ian: Yes.
Kristin: Tell us some of your—who's your favorite character in Buffy the Vampire Slayer?
Ian: Oh, god. Um...I don't know. I feel like I love all of my babies, so I love all of them?
Kristin: Oh, you're that kind of parent, eh?
Jenny: [simultaneously] Yeah but which baby do you love the most?
Ian: I even sometimes defend Xander on my podcast?
Kristin: Sure!
Ian: Not that I think he's great, I just think he's like...okay, I get it. He's not great, but I don't—
Jenny: He does good stuff sometimes.
Kristin: Yeah, no, he does.
Jenny: He's on a journey.
Kristin: He's become the heart of the Scoobies. We're learning, we're learning, you
know? That's me to Xander: [through gritted teeth] we're learning, we're learning! [laughter]
Ian: But like, I am a gay man, so Cordelia and Anya are my favorites. [cheers]
Jenny: Hell fucking yeah!
Kristin: Wow! Hell yeah! I have a question for you.
Ian: Bring all the questions.
Kristin: So Dracula is a vampire.
Ian: Mm-hmm. [crowd laughs] Allegedly.
Kristin: Allegedly.
Jenny: You know the g—hot. Shoulder-length hair. Pale, pallid skin.
Ian: What are you doing later, Jenny? [crowd laughs]
Jenny: Uhhh... [laughter] Ah yes, as far as I ever get, go on!
Kristin: So my question to you, and also to you, Jenny—
Jenny: I'm here.
Kristin: Though this is a little complicated for you, but my question is, do you find Dracula sexy? Ian first, Jennifer. [laughter] She just like, flung her cape out. "Well, I'm so glad you asked!"
Jenny: And turned into a bat. [laughter]
Kristin: Oh my god, we didn't fucking talk about the fucking turning—oh, we're not there yet.
Jenny: Oh my—! Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: [sighs with relief] Okay. So back to you, Ian. Do you think Dracula is sexy? Would you make out with Dracula, Y or N?
Ian: Okay, wait. But that question is different than if I find him sexy [inaudible] [crowd laughs]
Kristin: Okay, you're right. You're right, you're right, you're right, okay. Solid fucking point, Ian. Do you find Dracula sexy?
Ian: Okay, not counting the Dracula next to me, no, I do not find that Dracula in Buffy Vs. Dracula sexy.
Jenny: Nice. Acceptable answer.
Ian: But would I make out with him? Sure. [crowd laughs]
Kristin: Okay, wait, wait!
Jenny: Oh! I thought this was gonna go the other way. I thought you were like, sometimes somebody's sexy but I'm still not gonna make out with them. But that was a total reversal.
Ian: You had so much faith in me!
Kristin: I feel connected to you in this moment, because I feel like maybe the reason that you're like, I don't super find Dracula sexy but yeah, I would make out with him, because he's like this historical figure.
Jenny: Oh, 'cause he's famous .
Kristin: Yeah!
Jenny: Yeah, Kristin!
Ian: You're both giving me way too much credit. No. Just like, if he said he wanted to, I'd be like, "okay." [laughter] In case anyone is wondering for later. [louder laughter, cheers]
Jenny: Nice, nice. There's something for everyone on our podcast!
Kristin: Jenny, do you find Dracula—now, we can ask this in two parts. Do you find yourself as Dracula sexy—
Jenny: Yeah, no, no, no. I've got it going on, I'm fine. With me, I feel good about me.
Kristin: What about Dracula?
Jenny: Dracula, I think, like...I think he's alluring in the beginning of the episode. And then I just feel like he gets less and less alluring as the episode goes on. Because of what he's doing and also because his vest doesn't fit very well in the last scene. [laughter] And also his makeup gets less good. I feel like he looks a little more dead towards the end.
Kristin: Yeah. He's got good fucking nails though, I'll tell you what. [crowd affirms] He went to the same salon that the Master went to. [laughter] They're nice and polished, he's looking good.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: I do not think that Dracula is sexy either, but I would make out with him because I would wanna say that I made out with Dracula.
Ian: Like, that's also a really good reason to make out with—I also would make—be like "and I made out with Dracula" but that doesn't matter. Jenny, would you also make out with him?
Jenny: I think I'm good. [laughter] I mean, I could just go look in a mirror—well, I can't. 'Cause I'm a vampire!
Kristin: Ohh! [crowd laughs, applause]
Ian: Is Jenny calling us bottoms? I think she is.
Kristin: Yeah! [cheers]
Kristin: I like to think of myself as a switch. [laughter]
Ian: Yeah, same. Yeah, totally, yeah.
Kristin: Okay so, Ian, back to Buffy. [laughter]
Ian: Sorry.
Jenny: [clears throat]
Kristin: Do you have anything else you'd like to tell us about this episode while you're here with us?
Ian: Um, I love her outfit so fucking much. We love a redo of Graduation Day. [cheers] I could not stop telling Kristin how good she looked backstage. I mean, come on, and I think—and she—okay, so. I'm Puerto Rican so excuse me but the hoops? Really, I'm like, yes, wear more hoops! [cheers] Like, they don't make sense if you're actually going out to fight people, but they look good so who cares.
Kristin: Unless you're the slayer, and then you're like, yeah, try to fucking rip this hoop out of my ear, you know? [laughter] Which is kinda how I feel when I hold babies. I'm like, yeah, get it! No, you can't get it, ah! [crowd laughs] Okay, we're getting off track!
Ian: My nephew would pull on my septum ring and I'd be like, he can't get it out, can he? And I just let him pull.
Kristin: Oh god, until one day...
Ian: Yeah.
Jenny: The final tug. [crowd laughs]
Kristin: Okay, so... [pauses for lots of crowd laughter]
Jenny: Wow, suddenly I'm yearning for the innocent days of football innuendos.
Ian: You bring a gay guy on stage and I bring, like...the filth. Lord. I'm sorry for being a stereotype.
Kristin: You're like, I will make out with you, keep the hoops, yeah. And also, do you like my flannel? Hitting all the boxes.
Ian: Well, do you?
Kristin: Do I like your flannel?
Ian: Yeah.
Kristin: I'm fucking gay, I love your flannel. [laughter]
Jenny: Okay, I'm gonna let you guys all in on a secret. This is actually not a flannel.
Kristin: You're right.
Jenny: It's like, an Oxford's, so. It just happens to be plaid.
Ian: Expose me on stage!
Jenny: No, no, I'm exposing Kristin! Bad lesbian! Can't tell flannel! [laughter]
Kristin: Ugh. I had worked so hard to get that ten punches on my card, now I'm down to nine. Down to nine!
Jenny: Now you gotta fill one back in.
Kristin: Ian, we are just delighted that you joined us here tonight on this stage.
Ian: Thanks for having me!
Jenny: Thank you for being here! Yay!
Kristin: Thank you for being here! Ian Carlos Crawford! [applause]
Jenny: Meanwhile! Meanwhile. On the darkened streets of Sunnydale. Xander and Willow are taking a walk together and Willow is keeping a secret like fucking Sansa Stark up in this piece. [crowd laughs] "Oh my god, I know a secret, should I tell you? If I know a secret and I told you, would that be bad? Oh my god! I found out, I don't know, like ten minutes ago and maybe I should wait until fifteen minutes have gone by?" [laughter] What the fuck! Willow!
Kristin: Ugh, yeah. She's not—it's not her skill. She can make fire, she can't keep a secret. It's Willow's deal. Xander—meanwhile, I, as the viewer, am like, Xander, looking good, looking good, man, doin' great. And then he's like, "Is your secret a naughty secret with Tara?"
Jenny: Wump wump!
Kristin: And I'm like, wump wump! Which earlier in the series we considered making Xander's jingle. [laughter] Wump wump! So Buffy is like, yo, are you really fucking Dracula, because like—"are you just a fanboy?" she says. Because then she lets us know that unbeknownst to us, she's been killing some vampires who were— [Jenny laughs] calling themselves Lestat. [crowd laughs]
Jenny: But then she very quickly changes her tune when she finds out that Dracula has heard of her.
Kristin: Yeah!
Jenny: And immediately turns on the like, Hollywood, "I'm a star?" [crowd laughs]
Kristin: This is like, where the Venn diagram of Kristin and Buffy come together.
Jenny: Oh yeah, 'cause you wanna make out with him 'cause he's famous!
Kristin: I know. I don't even wanna make out with actual famous people, just historical figures. [crowd laughs] Like, it's not just like, you are on TV. It's like, you've been alive since 1428. You've got a fucking name for yourself, you know. You really put in the time, okay.
Jenny: My mind just was, like, racing, like, who's a non-problematic historical figure I can—I just want to say a bunch of names in a row and I was like, I can't think of anyone.
Kristin: No.
Jenny: That it's safe to suggest.
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah.
Jenny: Everyone is ruined, please go on.
Kristin: Okay, so. Dracula says something, which I think is the core of—it's what ties the season finale of Season 4 to the premiere of Season 5. Which is, he says that her power is rooted in darkness. And that's a thing that we really play with, it's the way we left—yes, Jenny?
Jenny: I'm just excite—please go on, and then I will jump in when I allow you to finish a thought. [laughs]
Kristin: Jenny's whole body is like, ahhhh! Ready to lift off into the stratosphere. No, I think—I just wanted to put a pin in that, that I think that Buffy is wrestling with something big. And it started at the end of Season 4, and she is very apparently holding onto it into Season 5. How will it inform our journey? Who knows.
Jenny: I just realized something.
Kristin: Yes?
Jenny: This is the episode that really unlocks something that I noticed. Which is— [a few loud laughs from the audience] [long pause] Buffy is Batman? [crowd laughs] And hear me out! And hear me out. This is the first episode where Buffy looks within and, like, isn't really sure what the nature of what she sees truly is, and that's kind of like...I mean, we're gonna see kind of like how that continues to play out and be examined. But that's such a huge part of the Batman mythos, which I think is like, one of the greatest, you know, sort of psychological comic book narrative arcs. Which is like, all about Batman, you know, sort of like constantly worrying that he is not better than the supervillains that he's constantly fighting. And kind of like, that's a huge part of his—excuse me, I know the Joker might be, like, triggering because—
Kristin: Oh yeah, it's a whole thing, isn't it now?
Jenny: Blegh! Such terrible things have happened to the Joker recently. And let's leave them all out of the equation. But the—looking at a hero who constantly has to wonder if their power is rooted in darkness, is a really cool theme and very powerful. And I realize that I could have just had this moment on my own...
Kristin: No!
Jenny: And there's not a joke and I'm sorry.
Kristin: No, no, it's good. I like the moment— [cheers] My question for you—because I don't know a lot about Batman. I also find it hilarious that Dracula is straight up about to turn into a fucking bat, and you're like, "got it. Buffy's Batman." [crowd laughs]
Jenny: But...
Kristin: No, I mean, I'm there with you though. But I wanna know if Batman has a Faith. You know what I mean? [a few shouts of "Catwoman!"]
Jenny: I think Batman's faith is justice. And also Catwoman.
Kristin: Catwoman? [crowd affirms] Apparently I gotta get into Bat—
Jenny: Oh, you mean Faith like a person! I thought you meant, like... [crowd laughs] What does he believe, what is his driving principle?
Kristin: [laughs] No.
Jenny: Oh yeah, Catwoman is totally his Faith. A hundo.
Kristin: Okay, so Catwoman is his Faith.
Jenny: [laughs] Great. Catwoman's probably got some boob windows in the old wardrobe, I'll tell you what. [cheers]
Kristin: Yeah! Also, is Michelle Pfeiffer Catwoman? [crowd affirms]
Jenny: Well, in a movie. In a film.
Kristin: No, is she actually fucking Catwoman?
Jenny: Maybe.
Kristin: Is Catwoman in the same universe as Cats? Okay, I have a lot of questions. [crowd laughs]
Jenny: Oh, the musical? [laughter] I need a study aide of some kind.
Kristin: Somebody write me the adaptation of Cats where Catwoman is there. Okay, so Dracula turns into a fucking bat. It's great. My favorite part about Dracula as a bat is that Dracula is serious from minute zero to minute 45 of this episode, except... [Jenny laughs] when he's a fucking bat. And then he's like, "fucking up your hair, fucking up your hair, ha-ha-ha-ha-ha!" [crowd laughs]
Jenny: How humiliating to have to flap around after you just made your whole statement of being Dracula.
Kristin: I'm just saying, it gets me. Like, once I got the image in my head, every time I watch the episode, I die.
Jenny: It's so undignified.
Kristin: Yeah. He's really not himself when he's a bat. [crowd laughs] When he's a wolf? Totally Dracula. Bat? Funny Dracula. Alright. So real quick...this isn't gonna be quick. This whole episode is not quick.
Jenny: [laughs] "Quick."
Kristin: I'm on page 4. Got 14. [crowd laughs and cheers] No, we're moving, we're moving. But I just wanna do a little bit of Hellmath, because—so, Dracula was given his name. It was taken from Vlad the Impaler, Vlad Dracula, who was born in 1428-ish. [chuckles] Wikipedia's real specific on, like, when we were born. But like, when it comes to Vlad Dracula, it literally was like, "1427-29, question mark?" And I was like, alright, we'll go with a mean of 1428. Median? Whatever. So I think that Dracula is about 200-ish years older than Angel. Right? 'Cause Angel—no, Angel's like, 200? No—
Jenny: 244 now? Probably? 245?
Kristin: Okay, so then he's like, how many years older... [someone in crowd speaks up] 300? Do I hear 4? [crowd laughs] 400! He's like, 400 years older.
Jenny: 400 years older than Buffy or 400 years older than Angel?
Kristin: Than Angel.
Jenny: Got it.
Kristin: So Dracula had lived for 400 years when Angel was like, "I'm wasted, oh shit!" [laughter] Alright.
Jenny: Uh-huh? True.
Kristin: And so I wanna take a moment to think—I just wanna have a moment where we all think about, like, what does Angel think of Dracula? Because I... [someone in crowd shouts "Bitch!"] [crowd laughs]
Kristin: I'm sorry, Angel thinks Dracula is a bitch? Is that... [crowd laughs] what came from the audience? Interesting analysis. I think that Angel—because there's a lot of things. I wanna say that I think Angel gets his Dracula-ware at Pottery Barn, which we've discussed. [crowd laughs] But I do think that Angel pulls a lot of things from the Dracula book. So I actually think that Angel is like, whatever. And he's like—
Jenny: "That guy sucks!" But then is like... "is this the right... [crowd laughs] length? I can't... I wish I could look in a mirror, but I can't. But he looks so cool! You know, it's not time for capes anymore but maybe I'll just get a really long black trench coat." [crowd laughs]
Kristin: Yeah. "Oh, candles? I've got plenty."
Jenny: Don't even get me started on immolation watch in this freaking episode! [crowd laughs and cheers]
Kristin: Dracula's like, sitting inside of a candelabra. [laughter] He is surrounded—I mean, Buffy has seen Angel surrounded by fire for years. And he—and Dracula is surrounded by so much fire that even Buffy is like, yo dude, um... [crowd laughs] you might wanna, like, fucking think about this shit, 'cause...
Jenny: I feel like the timeline might not be—I'm not quite clear on the year of release, but like, in a few years when it comes out, do you think that Dracula privately listens to Evanescence? [crowd laughs] And he's all like, "My Immortal, this is my jam. Play."
Kristin: Um, Lauren, when you edit this episode, will you please play All the Things She Said, All the Things She Said—
Jenny: That's—wait, whoa, whoa, whoa. That's t.A.T.u.
Kristin: Oh shit! [crowd laughs] ["All the Things She Said" by t.A.T.u starts playing in the background]
Kristin: Lauren...
Jenny: Whole other vibe.
Kristin: Well, my Dracula listens to t.A.T.u. [laughter] [song fades out]
Kristin: [clears throat] Alright. Back on track.
Jenny: Will we ever get out of this scene? [crowd laughs]
Kristin: Yeah, we're gonna go right the fuck face-first into Riley being an idiot again. [crowd laughs] We're at Giles' house.
Jenny: Ooo-kay.
Kristin: And Buffy is like, "whatever, I fucking—so fucking Dracula!" And Riley is like, "I heard you the first 20 times."
Jenny: Whoa, whoa, whoa. He says it way more charming than that, and also in this scene, everyone who was there's significant other is feeling insecure—
Kristin: That's true.
Jenny: Because their significant others are like, [dreamily] "Dracula, wow." Which I totally get, because, you know, the shoulder-length hair and the cape. [crowd laughs] Relatable content!
Kristin: Uh-huh...
Jenny: Please go on.
Kristin: Whatever. I'm just like... here's the thing. Fine, Riley's jealous, Tara is jealous—which is really cute. [laughs]
Jenny: Somehow it's cute when Tara does it. [crowd laughs]
Kristin: I know. I'm like, fuck, my bias is showing. [laughter] Well, because Tara is jealous because she's like, "But did you really?" And Riley is jealous and he's like, "ugh." [crowd laughs] Anyway, and Xander is—Xander's kinda like this weird middle ground because Anya is like, "Dracula? Yeah, I know him." [crowd laughs]
Jenny: Oh, what's hilarious is that like, when he was looking at Dracula, Xander was like, [shakily] "Oh my god, it's Dracula!" And then as soon as Anya's like, "oh my god, it was Dracula," Xander's like, "he was no big whoop! Eh!" [crowd laughs]
Kristin: Yo, I'm just gonna say that I think, like, Xander and Anya are super into having threeways. I just... [crowd affirms]
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: Like, Dracula, Johnathan...
Jenny: Craiglist.org/Sunnydale/seeking...
Kristin: Straight up, you swipe on Tinder, they're like, "Couple, live in Sunnydale. Just trying to have fun."
Jenny: I'm sorry, I was trying to work within the, you know, non-anachronistic methods of tracking down possible thirds.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Three—a throuple?
Jenny: Yeah, erotic thirds.
Kristin: What was yours? I didn't even hear you, I was busy.
Jenny: Oh, I said craigslist.org/Sunnydale/seeking... something. I don't actually know what the real thing is. [laughter] So anyway.
Kristin: So anyway. We go through this scene. Willow is doing—
Jenny: Willow is keeping it real cool!
Kristin: Willow, you guys. "Giles—didn't everybody miss Giles? Doesn't everybody love Giles?"
Jenny: "I was just thinking, the whole time, I wish Giles was here! He'd know what to do!"
Kristin: Meanwhile, Buffy is like, "there was no penetration." [crowd laughs]
Jenny: I would like to take a moment to talk about what I noticed in this scene that no one else has been brave enough to say, which is that Riley has suddenly started using a lot more product in his hair. [crowd laughs] And I am not a fan. Strike one, Riley. [crowd reacts negatively]
Kristin: I don't even know what you said that made them so mad, 'cause I was reading my notes.
Jenny: I'm not even sure what made them so mad. [laughter] I was saying I didn't like something Riley did and I thought everybody would be with me.
Kristin: Ohhh.
Jenny: But that's okay.
Kristin: They were shocked. They've gotten used to you—
Jenny: I've brainwashed them! [crowd laughs] Riley, medium. [crowd laughs and cheers]
Kristin: Are you saying that they're under your thrall? [cheers]
Jenny: Sounds like they're saying it. [crowd laughs]
Kristin: Before we leave this scene and before we all swoon, I wanna give a shoutout to Buffy's line, which is that she says she had a "Count encounter." [laughter] And then, I wanna take—I just gave Buffy 20 points for saying "Count encounter," and I would like to take them away for when she says, "a little sugar, and I'm all yours."
Jenny: Boo!
Kristin: I don't like it. I don't mean to yuck your yum, but I don't like it.
Jenny: No. Yuck it, Kristin. [laughter]
Kristin: Alright. Yuck it!
Jenny: There's just something about that line.
Kristin: Meanwhile, fucking Xander is telling Anya to flaunt her neck cleavage in the next scene.
Jenny: He's all jealous, but who has time to notice how jealous he is when they're being followed by a rooftop wolf? So question, did Dracula become a bat and fly up to the roof and then become a wolf? [crowd laughs] And then to get down, will he become a mist to gently... settle upon the earth again?
Kristin: I think that Dracula was a bat, flew to the roof, became Dracula to congratulate himself. [laughter]
Jenny: Yeah, he's like...
Kristin: And then he became a wolf. [laughter] Okay. Great.
Jenny: Okay, so it's—
Kristin: Also, I'm sorry, I was stuck in thought because I was thinking, isn't it interesting that we like when—'cause I was thinking about neck cleavage. Which is kind of silly, 'cause it's really like—you bear—you make your neck not have cleavage for it to be desirable. But you make your boobs pushed—it's just a different—[crowd laughs] it's just... I'm just thinking about how fucking fucked up we all are about what we love. You know? We're like, yeah! There's a fuckin' bunch of flesh, pushed together. Wanna make out with you.
Jenny: 50% social conditioning, 50% we're all perverts. [crowd laughs]
Kristin: It's just cool that we're all like, "bodies! Yeah!" Like, I don't know. That's all. Okay. [clears throat] In other important news, Xander has a specific day of the fucking week where he cleans his white clothing.
Jenny: It's actually, I think, his mom's day.
Kristin: Ohh! That makes more sense. [crowd laughs]
Jenny: So it's whites day, Anya doesn't like the smell of bleach. She goes home to her apartment, which—I don't think it's a spoiler to say, we'll see it in the not-too-distant future, and her apartment is fucking sick. I don't know why they're not always fucking at her apartment. [crowd laughs] Why would you ever go to Xander's basement? But you're not there yet, so...
Kristin: Anya's probably like, "this is my space." You know?
Jenny: [laughs] True.
Kristin: Alright. So Drac and Xan... [crowd laughs] Willow calls Xander "Xan" earlier in the episode, okay?
Jenny: No. No. No.
Kristin: Drac and Xan... [singsong] Drac and Xan! Are hanging out! [normal voice] Xan's like, "no poofin'!" And Xan's [sic] like, "hahaha, do what I say." And Xander is like, "yes, Master." And I kinda like it. [crowd laughs] Sorry!
Jenny: Me too, and I also like Xander, like, giggling.
Kristin: Yeah!
Jenny: He's like, "we're in cahoots."
Kristin: That's the thing. If Xander could just be a bottom, I would be into Xander. [cheers]
Jenny: You think Xander's in that relationship with Anya and he's not a bottom? [cheers]
Kristin: No, no! I do! I do.
Jenny: Okay!
Kristin: I do, that's—
Jenny: You mean, like, socially a bottom?
Kristin: Right, no, that's what I'm saying. I'm like, Xander is great when he's bottoming, which he totally, 100,000% does with Anya. But like, in the world, I think he tries to pretend like he's t—
Jenny: I wonder why Joss hasn't called us yet. [crowd laughs]
Kristin: Wow! Oh my god, if I could do that cartoon, like, [makes boing-boing-boing sound], I would. So, whatever. Xander is Dracula's minion, into it. We go to Spike's crypt. [cheers]
Jenny: Oh. My. God.
Kristin: Yo, so I—
Jenny: Oh. [crowd laughs] Sorry.
Kristin: No, go, please, please.
Jenny: You know when you're a vampire ? [crowd laughs] You get it. And you're like, welcome to my crypt, the only things I keep here are a thousand lit candles... [crowd laughs] and one weapon that shoots projectiles made of the exact material that if it pierced mine heart, I would be dead. [crowd laughs]
Kristin: Fuckin' Spike, you guys. He doesn't care!
Jenny: And Spike's like, "uh-oh, Riley. Don't kill me!" [crowd laughs]
Kristin: Spike's like, "oh Riley, I forget how to use this crossbow. Can you show me?"
Jenny: [simultaneously] "Can you show me?" And then they do the Ghost thing but with a crossbow. [crowd laughs]
Kristin: We have a while before we get to the Sexual Tension Awards, but let's, uh...
Jenny: We know who's in the running.
Kristin: We couldn't resist. Alright, so Spike's all pissed 'cause Dracula's famous and we all know that Spike wants to be famous. And also, everyone apparently learned how to kill vampires, because Dracula's famous. Bummer.
Jenny: That is a big bummer. I agree.
Kristin: [laughs] He likes—Dracula likes luxury estates, he likes bug eaters. And Spike is like, "Riley. You're out of your fucking depth. Why don't you just stay here with me?"
Jenny: "I don't want you to get hurt, Riley! Don't go out and get killed."
Kristin: Oh my god, my last note—I don't even remember writing it. I was in the thrall. [crowd laughs] My last note literally just says "sexy guys" in all caps! [cheers] I literally do not remember writing it. "Sexy guys."
Jenny: Oh my gosh, wait. 'Cause at the end— [laughter] at the fucking end of the scene. [crowd laughs] After all of this shit. And Spike is like, "Riley, go home and stay safe and don't die" and whatever, and Riley's all mad about it. They just get really close! [crowd laughs] Like, as close as they can get without kissing. And they just stand there and breathe, glowering at each other. [laughter] That's why you wrote "sexy guys," since you can't remember.
Kristin: I literally was like, "sexy guys! I don't know! I don't know!"
Jenny: Just her eyes glazing over. [laughter]
Kristin: Oh god. Okay, meanwhile, Dracula is, as Buffy would say, wafting in here. I thought it was a good line. Dracula wafts into Buffy's room as a mist.
Jenny: You know when a 600-year-old guy just mists himself into your bedroom?
Kristin: Also, like, how many fucking vampires watch this girl sleep? [sighs] [crowd laughs]
Jenny: It's like their favorite thing. At least he didn't break out the sketchbook.
Kristin: I—in the beginning of the episode, I kind of judged Buffy. I was like, nobody sleeps like that. And then by the end, I was like, you know what? I would sleep like that too if all these fucking vampires— [laughter] are like sketching me in charcoal.
Jenny: I wonder— do you think that Angel heard that Dracula likes to mist into girls' rooms and watch them sleep, and then he was like, "no, I've taken your idea and I've actually improved upon it— [laughter] 'cause while I'm watching, I then make a sketch and leave it somewhere where I know she'll see it. Oops."
Kristin: Yes. I actually think that's Angel's entire energy around Dracula. [laughter] He's like, "You can mist but have you seen hair gel?" [crowd laughs] Alright, so this is a gross fucking scene.
Jenny: Ew, boo!
Kristin: Because fucking Dracula is using mind control on Buffy. And he's also, like, looking at her neck and being like, "You've been tasted." What the fuck is this shit? Get outta here, Dracula! That's my sound byte. [laughter]
Jenny: Ugh, you know when you've just been searching the world, yearning for a creature whose darkness rivals your own? [crowd laughs]
Kristin: [laughs] Shoutout to Sarah Michelle Gellar for her fucking— [Jenny laughs] what's funny?
Jenny: Keeping a straight face during this whole episode!
Kristin: Well, yeah, but it is about her face. Because when Dracula bites her—blegh—her face acting is so—she has no lines. It's just her face, and she does all of it in her face. It's good—I think that's what acting is called. [crowd laughs] I think that's what it is, but I'm just impressed here. So she pulls out that neckerchief from the pack, she ties it around her neck again. [a few people chuckle in the crowd] In the next scene, to conceal her bites. It was a deep dig. That actually made me proud, that only like a third of you laughed. I was like, yeah! Now who's the Buffy fan? [laughter]
Jenny: [laughing] Wow.
Kristin: Alright. [Ad music starts]
Jenny: Today's episode is brought to you by Care Of. Care Of is a subscription service that delivers vitamins and supplements customized for your specific health needs. Just take a short quiz and answer questions about your diet and lifestyle, fitness and health goals, and Care Of puts together a personalized plan just for you. Maybe you're looking for energy or better sleep because you keep waking up in the middle of the night and compulsively hunting for vampires extracurricularly. Maybe you need some extra Vitamin D because you're allergic to sunlight. Whatever you're looking for, Care Of can help you find the right supplements and vitamins for you. They also offer protein powders available in individual, on-the-go packets, personalized to your fitness goals and dietary preferences. And you can modify your subscription at any time when your needs or preferences change. I've been using Care Of for a while now, and I love how easy it is to narrow down what exactly it is I'm looking for and what I'm looking to get out of vitamins and supplements. And I extra love that every vitamin pack has a little fun fact or piece of trivia on it. Just a little brain care to go with your body care. For 25% off your first Care Of order, go to takecareof.com and enter code "buffering." That's takecareof.com, promo code "buffering" for 25% off your first order.
Kristin: Today's episode was also brought to you by Pretty Litter. No matter how much you love your cat, the one part about being a cat owner that's never easy, apart from when they sleep on your face, or wake you up by pawing your nose, is the kitty litter. You all know that I have two cats, Sam and Gus, and they're pretty great. They're pretty cute. I know I'm biased, but I wish I didn't have to change their litter. Thankfully though, we have Pretty Litter. Pretty Litter is amazing for a lot of reasons. It's super easy to clean, it is super odor-controlling. The crystals really trap in the odor and my apartment does not smell. It also monitors their health, which is super cool. Unlike other litters that are made with clumping clay or dusty compost, Pretty Litter uses naturally-occurring minerals that trap and eliminate moisture and are virtually dust-free. Pretty Litter weighs up to 80% less than the average bag of cat litter, and lasts the whole month. It's shipped right to your door with free two-day shipping. The best part about Pretty Litter is that it does so much for your cat's health. Pretty Litter changes color to detect underlying illnesses before urgent medical care is needed, which can save you money, stress, and potentially your cat's life. Pretty Litter also now has toys that your cat will love. You can add a catnip toy pillow, a plush fitness ball, or a fitness wand when you place your Pretty Litter order. If you're a cat owner, you probably know what all those things mean. Make the switch to Pretty Litter today by visiting prettylitter.com. Use promo code "buffy" for 20% off your first order. That's prettylitter.com, promo code "buffy."
Jenny: Support for today's episode also comes from Hello Fresh. With Hello Fresh, America's #1 meal kit, you'll get easy, seasonal recipes and pre-measured ingredients delivered right to your door. All you have to do is cook and enjoy. Hello Fresh makes cooking delicious meals at home a reality, regardless of your comfort in the kitchen. From step-by-step recipes to pre-measured ingredients, Hello Fresh gives you everything you need to get a wow-worthy dinner on the table in just about 30 minutes. Hello Fresh offers something for everyone, from family recipes to calorie-smart and vegetarian, and it's so flexible. Easily change your delivery days, food preferences, or skip a week whenever you need to. Or you can add extra meals to your weekly order, as well as yummy add-ons like cookie dough or garlic bread, which is delicious and also useful for helping to repel the bloodthirsty undead. I've been using Hello Fresh for a while now. It is so fantastic. You know, life comes at you fast, whether you are running around Los Angeles podcasting and writing songs, or if you're, you know, upholding your sacred duty to defend the world against the legion of vampires and demons who wanna see the end of humankind. And it's really incredible in this hectic life to be able to use Hello Fresh to cook a meal myself and get that satisfaction and also enjoy delicious food, in just 30 minutes. For $80 off your first month of Hello Fresh, go to hellofresh.com/buffering80 and enter code "buffering80." [Ad music stops] [Episode resumes]
Kristin: Okay, so we're at Giles' apartment.
Jenny: And the last thing you want, after someone who's been searching the world yearning for someone whose darkness rivals their own and it turns out it's you, after they've bitten you, the last thing you want is for even a tall, broad-shouldered, beautifully sculpted, tan gentleman—even him—to put a jelly doughnut, that's kind of like...
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: It's, like, oozing, right?
Kristin: Yeah, it's oozing.
Jenny: In your face.
Kristin: He's like, "Dracula might have blood, but I have jelly." [crowd laughs] I don't understand, really, the jelly doughnut metaphor, but I think it's there, you know? [pause, then crowd laughs]
Jenny: [pause] Yes. [crowd laughs] And then a beautiful theme is introduced. In music, a beautiful theme can be introduced—like, in a classical piece, a melodic theme can be introduced. And then as you continue to hear it throughout the piece, over the length of the piece, it can be developed using different harmonic contexts and different instrument and different dynamics and it's very cool. And the dynamic that's introduced here is Xander saying, "The dark master... bator." [crowd laughs] And I can't wait to hear it in additional contexts real soon.
Kristin: So Dracula's theme is: ellipses, bator. [crowd laughs]
Jenny: Hell yeah!
Kristin: We learn from Willow that Dracula's turn-ons are—I rewound this like 18
thousand times to make sure I was getting it right. But I'm pretty sure they are: nice duds, minions—
Jenny: Hot.
Kristin: Loans?
Jenny: [laughing] What?!
Kristin: I know! I didn't understand that one. I rewound it so many times. But I thought, well, Spike did get a loan.
Jenny: Did you... did you put the—
Kristin: Bones? No.
Jenny: Captions on?
Kristin: I didn't, I couldn't figure it out. I have this— [crowd laughs] It's fine. And
the most important thing is: bites that last for days.
Jenny: Heh-heh-heh.
Kristin: Which, like, I am also into, you know? [cheers]
Jenny: Sure.
Kristin: Just like— all I'm trying to say...it's like, you know, you all just fill in what you wanna fill in. But what I meant is, like, I just—I really like that Dracula takes his time. [cheers] I think it's nice. [crowd laughs] I gotta go! Okay, so the theme comes back again. "Unholy prince..."
Jenny: Bator. [laughter] "Won't catch me saying—I won't give myself away." Xander is being such a fucking lizard in this scene. He's just like—
Kristin: Literally!
Jenny: Anxiously licking the air, I don't know, and his lips and like, grabbing that spider, twitching and trying to throw everybody off Dracula's scent. Very ineffectively!
Kristin: He does a good job at eating the bugs, Xander.
Jenny: Incred—it's very convincing!
Kristin: I think it's very convincing and—
Jenny: I salute him.
Kristin: And I don't wanna eat a bug, but like, it was the closest I got to wanting to eat a bug. [inaudible] Xander.
Jenny: That's too—that's actually too far.
Kristin: I know, I can tell. I know how to feel their energy and they were like, "ha-ha-ha, uh-uh!"
Jenny: Ehh...and you lost us at that last curve.
Kristin: God, one time—who's that woman's name who—uh, her arm, the claw?
Gwenyth...? [crowd: Gwendolyn Post!] Gwendolyn Post. Yeah, I remember that live episode where I compared Gwendolyn Post to Hermione Granger. [crowd laughs]
Jenny: No thank you! Absolutely not!
Kristin: That was the moment I learned how to read an audience. I was like, gah! [crowd laughs]
Jenny: So, the other thing that they talk about is that Dracula—it's not enough for Dracula to just, like, kill and drink someone? He wants his victim to, and I unfortunately quote, "burn for him"?
Kristin: Blegh! I mean, I'm kinda there for it, you know? [crowd laughs]
Jenny: Oh, but he's evil and then they die.
Kristin: Yeah, that's true. But I like the burning part.
Jenny: [laughing] Okay!
Kristin: Okay, so...then Riley is a jerk again. Because he fucking—they go out into the courtyard where the fountain is, which I'm always convinced is the fountain from Torrence High School. But it's not, it just seems like that fountain? Anyway. Riley's like, "You're under the thrall!" And then he yanks Buffy's neckerchief off, which I think is fucked up!
Jenny: Okay, based on the ease with which it comes off of her neck, I just wish to state that it is clear it is not tied very tightly.
Kristin: You're right.
Jenny: So it did not require a great deal of pressure to be pulled off.
Kristin: I just don't like—I don't like that he did that and I also do not like that then he says, "With Angel, it's reasonable that there'd be transference." [crowd reacts with disgust] And now, if you'll just give me a moment to put in my long code... [laughter] [GO AWAY RILEY jingle plays] Riley, you are kind of a cardboard Your mansplaining's best to be ignored No one cares, you're our TA so please Please go away [applause]
Kristin: Thank you!
Jenny: Pleased with yourself, are you?
Kristin: Yes, I am.
Jenny: I just want you to know that if you were under the thrall of the dark prince, and the fate of the world often rested upon your dainty shoulders, and you had recently been bitten and placed under the thrall... [crowd laughs] I think I said "under the thrall" twice, but you know—
Kristin: No, they're laughing at me 'cause I'm acting it out.
Jenny: No, I'm very much perceiving that.
Kristin: Oh, I never perceive her when I'm over here.
Jenny: I hope that somebody would care enough about you to notice that you were acting weird, and say, "hey. You okay? I care about you, I don't want you to be drained and turned vampire by the king of darkness."
Kristin: Yes, yes, yes. "Hey, I noticed you're wearing a neckerchief. Would you mind letting us know if that has anything to do with your neck?" [crowd laughs]
Jenny: I think he started there, but—
Kristin: Fine. I'm not here for it.
Jenny: Okay!
Kristin: You know what I'm here for?
Jenny: Xander eating a fly! [crowd laughs]
Kristin: Yeah! But more so than that, I'm here for, "how did he get inside?" Cut to... [laughter] Joyce! Hi, Joyce! [cheers] Joyce is like, "He seemed nice and normal. A little pale."
Jenny: But that shoulder-length hair! It was flowing.
Kristin: And then, as fucking Willow and Tara, like, put their tarot cards in their queer bag and they pull out their sage. [laughter]
Jenny: Oh my god, this is what they do with the sage! [delayed laughter from crowd] I'm sorry.
Kristin: Wow, Jenny. [crowd laughs]
Jenny: Basically, they're doing that and winking—
Kristin: [simultaneously] I'm not even describing that to our listeners.
Jenny: Okay, that's fair. I'm—you said "ball sweat." I feel like... [crowd laughs] Score-wise, we are even at best.
Kristin: Actually, yeah, okay. So Joyce is like, "sometimes you feel like giving up on men altogether." [cheers]
Jenny: [singsong] What's that like?
Kristin: And Tara looks at Willow, for all of us, and is like, ha-ha-ha. [laughter] And I couldn't think of a better place in the episode to bring to you a very special treat. A treat that's coming to you from the great unknown. Kate Leth has made us a video. [cheers] [intense, Twilight-Zone-esque music plays to more applause and cheers]
Kate : Hello, Philadelphia, and welcome...to Buffy Fashion Watch. [cheers] Now, on the off chance anyone out there is new to Buffering the Vampire Slayer, you might not know me and what I do. But what I do is very, very important. I talk about fashion, baby. Now, I would sincerely love to do an outfit change every sentence, but it's about 97 degrees in Los Angeles right now, and even with air conditioning, the heat is getting to me. So let's talk about pleather! Now this episode kicks off Season 5, and supposedly takes place during summer, seeing as how we see Buffy and her friends outside, talking about how it's summer, in the summer, in the beginning of the episode. [laughter] And yet, Buffy wears full-length, kind of flared pleather pants... twice in this episode. Two. Times. Now, when I say pleather, what I mean is fake leather of any kind. It's hard to tell sometimes exactly what fabric somebody's wearing, because Buffy wasn't shot in HD. I do a lot of rewatching and a lot of research. And a lot of guessing. [laughter] But what I know for a fact is that these pants are incredible. I mean, I feel like they're already pretty well known. When you think of Buffy, you kind of think of red leather pants. At least I do. 'Cause I'm gay and a pervert— [laughter] but...what was I saying? Oh right! Pleather. And the weather. And leather. So, pleather doesn't breathe. It's an artificial product, it's made of all kinds of different things. Polyurethanes and chemicals and they're trying to make some out of collagen right now, which seems like fake skin and well on the way to Terminators. But...what was I saying again? Oh, right. Pleather doesn't breathe. I see people on Buffy wearing leather sometimes, and I could understand that at nighttime. We live in a desert, it gets cold. But pleather is like...it's like vinyl, it's like PVC. They're all kind of in the same category. And again, when it comes to these pants, I'm not exactly sure what they are. But it doesn't breathe. [laughter] Like a vampire. And those pants are long. They are full-length. She's also wearing them with boots and a sweater. It's an incredibly cute look. I love the hoop earrings, I love the lip gloss. Her entire vision of a presence in this episode is transcendent. I just have mom concerns. [laughter] It's like fighting in saran wrap. It traps all of the heat against your body, which is gonna cause chafing. It's gonna be uncomfortable, it's gonna smell. When you put that together with everything else warm that she's wearing, it's an awful situation. And if those pants are lined to prevent them from rubbing against your skin, that's even hotter! Don't get me wrong, I still love them. It's just easier for me to suspend my disbelief about Dracula...than it is about fighting in Los Angeles in those pants. [laughter] Okay, I know. There were other characters in this episode. It's just...so gross to think about how sweaty it would be on those legs. Behind the knees especially, can you imagine? Ugh. Seriously, have you ever tried to stand up after sitting on a car seat or a leather chair on a hot day? It's like that. But you can't leave. [laughter] I don't buy Dracula's look, though. His collared shirts are too...90s sale rack for me. I mean, the cape is good. The chain holding the cape together, very classy, very queer. But those sort of tawny, kind of silky shirts that he's got underneath it? Even the one he's wearing with the vest. It just looks too modern. Dracula could do better. I still think he's hot, though. [laughter] I have lots more fashion thoughts on this episode. Like, that Willow's strange stretchy velour top and long, layered, cottony, frilly ankle-length skirt is so specific to that era in time, that it's really worth an entire segment on its own. But I'm tired. And you guys have things to do. So...until next time.
[crowd shouts: "She'll see you at the mall!"]
Kristin: Oh my god!
Jenny: I could cry! That was so good!
Kristin: That was so cute! [cheers] Kate Leth!
Jenny: She sent that video and I said, "there won't be a dry seat in the house." [cheers]
Kristin: She did, and for those of you who just clutched your chest like this 'cause you couldn't believe Jenny said it, that's what I did when I got the text. [laughter] Oh my good—my word!
Jenny: I mean, I'm just calling it.
Kristin: I know. Alright, Riley and Giles are house huntin'. [laughter] They're like, call up the real estate agent, we're shopping for a mansion! [Jenny laughs] Yeah, just a little clip but it made me laugh. And then Anya's like, "fuck the patriarchy." [a few cheers] Right? Anya's like, "why the fuck are they looking for him? I fucking know him. Oh, right, it's because I'm a—" and then they shove her—Xander shoves her in a closet. [laughter] If there's not a bigger patriarchy moment...that's fucking it. Should I play the jingle again?[crowd affirms] I need to learn how to make my phone not lock, you know? Okay, here we go! Buckle in! [THE PATRIARCHY jingle plays; spooky music] The patriarchy! [thunder clap, evil laughter] [applause]
Kristin: Alright. So Xander's like, "yo, I just locked my girlfriend in a closet. Can I take you to your master?" and she's like, "yeah!" [laughter] Also, at this point I start calling the—I name the locations of every scene. And I've been calling Dracula's castle "the spoooooky castle" until now, when apparently I've given it a second name, which is "Drac's Den." [crowd laughs]
Jenny: I just feel like "Castle Dracula" really rolls off the tongue.
Kristin: I don't know, I like "Drac's Den."
Jenny: [laughs] Drac's Den, home of Extreme Immolation Watch 2019.
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah.
Jenny: It's almost like he's begging for it, staring into a roaring blaze, surrounded by candles, candelabras strung from the ceilings. It's all bad.
Kristin: [laughing] He's reading five different copies of Nausee—they're like, stacked. He's like, "no, take this, Angel."
Jenny: [laughs] He's reading it in five languages at the same time. [Kristin laughs] Buffy's like, "oh yeah? You think you can thrall me? I brought this," and she holds up a stake. And he's like "put it down" and she's like "okay." And this is where I tell you that I thought a lot, 'cause I flew here to do this taping. I thought a lot about trying to figure out a way to make a "stakes on a plane" joke. [cheers and laughs] But I couldn't think of one that was better than just saying "I thought a lot about trying to make a stakes on a plane joke." [laughter]
Kristin: It works, it works, Jenny. That's good.
Jenny: Mm, yes.
Kristin: Yes. Dracula is like, [nondescript accent] "You cannot resist what you do not want to do." I don't know what accent that was.
Jenny: [laughing] Wait, what?
Kristin: No, Buffy says that. Somebody says it. [crowd laughs]
Jenny: "You cannot resist what you do not want to do"? "You cannot resist what you do not want to." Is that what you said?
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: You can't resist what you don't want to resist, is the idea.
Kristin: Yeah! [crowd laughs]
Jenny: You can't resist, Buffy.
Kristin: Listen, this is why I got hired. [laughter] Dracula says to Buffy something—I'm sorry to have to call out all the yuck lines. But he says, "I want to show you what your body is capable of." [crowd jeers]
Jenny: I know! I hate it!
Kristin: And I'm like, yo, Dracula? The anatomy of the clitoris was not known until 199-fucking-8, so where the fuck were you when I wanted to know what my body was capable of?
Jenny: Well, maybe he was trying to enter it on Wikipedia and they were just like, question mark? [crowd laughs]
Kristin: "I want to show you what your body is capable of!"
Jenny: Boo! [crowd boos]
Kristin: I'm gonna show you...something.
Jenny: I mean...just..."there's so much I have to teach you"—I feel like the lead into it is also very—
Kristin: It's gross!
Jenny: Boo!
Kristin: It's like, just when you thought we got enough patriarchy, we get patriarchy aged in wine. [laughter]
Jenny: And then when you thought you couldn't be any more grossed out, he's like, "but first, a little taste." And Buffy's like, "we already did this? And it wasn't that great?"
Kristin: No, we're not there yet! We are not there yet.
Jenny: I have no notes between "what your body is capable of" and "first, a little taste." What happens in the middle? [laughter] What did I forget?
Kristin: Fucking Giles! [cheers] I'm sorry, but Giles happens literally in the middle. 
Jenny: Oh! It's this pesky inter-cutting that's got me...all fucked up.
Kristin: So, Giles...well, first of all, Riley punches Xander.
Jenny: And everyone's like, what do—how do I feel? [crowd laughs] Which thing do I feel? Ahh!
Kristin: I know, it's truly a conflict of interest. Yes, no, ahh!
Jenny: It shouldn't be allowed, but it happens.
Kristin: Right. So that happens, we're all confused. [laughs] And then...Giles. Okay, so, apparently in Bram Stoker's Dracula, there are three brides of Dracula, like, he keeps three brides in his mansion. Of course he does, he wants to show them what their bodies are capable of. [laughter] And they're like—
Jenny: But there's a whole, like, sisters, brides, possible...Sire-ings?
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: You sent me a Wikipedia article, I read it.
Kristin: I did. So Giles is being, um, suckled? I don't know, what would we...? They don't wanna kill him!
Jenny: Look—you know that thing where you're just like a good kinda father figure, trying to do your best. And then all of a sudden, oops, you fall into a pit.
Kristin: Oops!
Jenny: And there are three brides of Dracula, and they're all nubile and convincing. And they're like, "hey, Daddy..." [crowd reacts] When is Giles gonna get an offer this good again?
Kristin: I literally cannot think of a better place to call out Joanna Robinson than you saying "hey, Daddy." [cheers] Joanna fucking Robinson, everybody!
Joanna: Hi. [cheers] So Jenny actually stepped on my line a little bit, because I wanna come out here and ask you. Is Giles—is Rupert Giles...a daddy or a zaddy? And I have a follow-up question.
Jenny: Okay, so, if my memory serves.
Kristin: Oh, no. [crowd laughs]
Jenny: A "zaddy" occurs, naturally, when you want the D so bad it becomes a Z. [laughter]
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Right?
Kristin: Yes, if we look back in our respected critically acclaimed files, we will find this piece of information.
Jenny: It's just science, people. So by that logic, I think it's a personal, subjective question. To me, I respect Giles' daddyship and I celebrate him, but I do not want the D, so it cannot become a Z by virtue of my wanting!
Joanna: Kristin.
Kristin: I'm gonna go zaddy.
Joanna: Zaddy, yeah. [cheers]
Jenny: And Joanna?
Joanna: Oh. Like, obvious zaddy. Follow-up question... [laughter]
Kristin: I feel like we're playing the biggest game of truth or dare ever.
Joanna: [in accent] "Dracula," AKA... [laughter] "Vlad the Impaler," daddy or zaddy, Jenny.
Jenny: No.
Joanna: Yeah. [crowd laughs] That's a hard pass.
Jenny: Like, stepbrother, I think. Stepbrother?
Joanna: Yeah, that's a hard pass. Right?
Kristin: I'm sorry, but no. I said I would make out with him for the cred, but I don't want anything more.
Joanna: Yeah, no. 'Cause see, I really need to agree with our friend Kate. By the way, should we, on air, congratulate Kate on her personal news? [Jenny gasps]
Kristin: For getting engaged! [cheers] Kate has gotten engaged. Speaking of brides.
Jenny: Wait, you were all so good at screaming something in unison. Could you also say "congratulations, Kate"?
Joanna: Wait, wait. Wait. I'm gonna do a video.
Kristin: Yeah! Yeah!
Joanna: Ein Minuten bitte. Just like Dracula would say, 'cause he's German, alright. Go for it.
[crowd: "Congratulations, Kate!"] [cheers]
Jenny: Very good.
Kristin: Oh, god. Let's all stay in this room forever.
Joanna: I have a lot of thoughts about Dracula. Is now the time to...express them?
Jenny: Now is precisely the time.
Kristin: [simultaneously] You know, as a matter of fact! Yeah.
Jenny: Never been a better one.
Kristin: You're sitting next to a Dracula fanboy. [laughter]
Joanna: Not this Dracula though, right? Jenny. Who is the most fuckable...mm. Or admirable Dracula in all of film and TV history?
Jenny: Like, technical Dracula, or just sort of like, vampire of film and television?
Joanna: No, [in accent] "Dracula."
Kristin: This is a smart person question. And I'm not a smart person.
Jenny: Yeah, I'm like, furiously sifting through my...
Joanna: [simultaneously, to Kristin] You are so pretty. [laughter]
Kristin: Thanks, Joanna.
Jenny: Wait, so who was Dracula in the one with Winona Ryder? [crowd shouts] I could not—that was too—
Joanna: Gary OIdman.
Jenny: Nahh! I mean, I—thank you, Gary Oldman, for your many talents. Being the hottest Dracula is probably not one of them, but like—
Joanna: No, I think he is. And here's—
Jenny: Oh, so just low—slim pickin's.
Joanna: It's a low bar.
Jenny: Can't we just say Brad Pitt and all be happy?
Joanna: No.
Kristin: No, that was my pick! I would like to pick either Brad Pitt or Rayanne Graff as my Dracula.
Jenny: What the fuck?
Joanna: Stop inventing Draculas. Alright.
Kristin: [singsong] Crossover!
Joanna: [laughs] You can say Bela Lugosi if you want to, that's fine.
Jenny: No, no, no, no.
Joanna: Yeah, old school goths, thank you! But Gary Oldman—here's what I'll say about Gary Oldman. Gary Oldman in the most ridiculous little specs, right? And the velvet top hat and all of that and you're like, "still would." [crowd laughs] And then he's like, old with the white pompadour. You're like, "still would." [laughter] And then he's like a veiny wolf, and you're like, "hmm...yeah, still would." So...and then he's like, mist, and you're like, "definitely would." Question—follow-up question for you, Kristin. What do you think [in accent] "Dracula" thinks of the new scientific information about vaping? Is he really... [laughter] bummed about vaping?
Kristin: I think he is, Joanna, because I think that [accent] "Dracula" is a purist, you know? Like, I think he remembers the days in which you wouldn't add Vitamin E acetate to your mist.
Joanna: Yeah. Right, his mist doesn't taste like—
Kristin: Poprocks.
Joanna: Right, cherry burnt marshmallow toast, right? Yeah.
Kristin: Yeah. Dracula remembers the olden days, the good days, when mist was just mist. It would just slowly suck your blood. Over time.
Jenny: He's like, "make America mist again." [laughter] Sorry!
Kristin: It's not funny.
Joanna: I have some fun facts about the actor who plays Dracula, would you like to hear them?
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: Yes! He's actually a wolf, he's actually mist, he's actually a bat! Is it one of those? [laughter]
Joanna: He's actually a soap star. He was on All My Children with Sarah Michelle Gellar. You can— [Kristin gasps] Yeah.
Jenny: Oh my fucking god!
Kristin: Gasp!
Joanna: I have a photo that I can't share with all of you, but I want you to see it.
Kristin : Oh! My! God!
Joanna: And I want you to see it. [Jenny laughs] And it explains a lot—
Kristin: We'll put it on the internet.
Joanna: Because I believe...his name is [accent] "Rudolph." Or Rudy. Let's call him Rudy, right? He's German. Ish. German—he's German. That's—hence the accent. He also played [accent] "Dracula" in, like, a 2000 USA television movie. So I feel like, here's what happened.
Kristin: Is he Dracula?
Joanna: I feel like Marti Noxon was like, "we're gonna do a Dracula episode." And Sarah was like, [thick Valleygirl accent] "Marti..." [crowd laughs] "I have this friend, Rudolph. He was my pal in All My Children. He already has the cape." [laughter] "We just need to get him the Nordstrom's rack red dress shirt. And the ill-fitting vest. And then he'll be ready to go!" And Marti's like, "Kay." And the rest of us were like, that's your Dracula? You're a vampire show, and this is your Dracula?!
Jenny: It's like, we've already seen Angel and Spike.
Joanna: Right. And they got fooled, 'cause they're like, "oh, James Marsters looks fucking hot and legit in a red dress shirt. Let's try it with this guy." And we're like, no! [laughter]
Jenny: No, it's gotta be unbuttoned. That's a huge part of the equation.
Joanna: Yeah. He looks like he's going clubbing in Ibiza or something like that. And we're like, no!
Kristin: It's a lot of collar, you know? That's a part of the issue. A lot of collar.
Joanna: And that vest! I was just like, no, this is not—like, Dracula—like, Gary Oldman's Dracula should look sexy no matter what, should look sexy in stupid little glasses. And this guy's like, [accent] "I tried." [laughter] "I don't...I don't know."
Kristin: I'm literally gonna try to edit together a Drunk History, but it's just gonna be Joanna saying "Dracula" over Dracula. [laughter] And like, "I tried," but just over clips of Dracula. It's my fucking favorite thing. [laughter] Joanna, you don't love this episode.
Joanna: Uh, guess what? The Dracula sucks! [cheers] He sucks!
Kristin: This is, like, an episode divided, it seems. Okay, so I'd actually like to take a survey, real quick. By cheering. Do—and don't—really own your shit, 'cause it's really divided. Do you love this episode? Cheer. [cheers]
Jenny: And then...do you hate this episode? [cheers similarly loudly]
Kristin: A few more hates, I think, but it's pretty fucking—
Joanna: I feel like the people who love this episode are also surreptitiously eating bugs. [crowd laughs] Like, Dracula got to you.
Jenny: This is not—this podcast does not endorse...uh, opinions expressed here are not necessarily our own. [laughter]
Joanna: No, you can like this episode, it's fine. I'm okay, you're okay, but like—
Kristin: I think—okay. So here we are, we're starting our Season 5 podcast. And the way I feel in this room is like, hi, we're back together again! Haha! You know. And I feel like that's how the episode feels.
Jenny: Yeah, it would have been a lot harder to pull this off mid-season when shit's serious.
Kristin: Yeah, no. It's like this, "remember us? We're this vampire show, we're gonna take your heart, pull it out of your chest this season, but this episode? Hahaha. Dracula!"
Jenny: Yeah, but first here's some camp. Some good solid camp.
Kristin: Yeah.
Joanna: Okay. Here's my main point. Here's why I'm really here.
Jenny: Sawyer's hot. Is it "Sawyer's hot"? [cheers]
Joanna: What if they had gotten Josh Holloway to play Dracula?
Jenny: I know!
Kristin: I know! Yeah!
Joanna: I know you know.
Kristin: I'd be into that.
Joanna: I've been doing a Lost rewatch podcast. These awesome people have been on it, so. Yeah, anyway. Sawyer is hot. But that's not my—that's not what brought me here today. What brought me here today is, I would like to forever kill Jenny's argument that Riley is worth rooting for.
Kristin: Holy shit!
Joanna: And here's why.
Jenny: I'm listening.
Kristin: Whoa!
Joanna: Giles is down, having the time of his life. His shirt has been ripped open, having a good time, and who comes along...
Jenny: Okay, okay, okay—
Joanna: But Boyscout Butterscotch. [crowd laughs]
Kristin: Whoa!
Joanna: Here to fucking haul him out. And when Giles expresses his adult preference to go back in said chick pit, with his shirt gaping wide open—"oh, my shoe!" Like, you know. He's an adult, he wants to go back, and Riley's like, "no, no, sir. No more chick pit for you." And all of us go, fuck you, Riley dude. [cheers]
Jenny: Listen! Who among us has not been pulled out of a chick pit to which we would prefer to return by someone who cares about us and knows we will thank them at a later point in history? Furthermore, I will say unto thee, Joanna Robinson, the treasure of my heart.
Joanna: Jennifer, yes.
Jenny: Earlier in the episode, when they're at Riley's—nope. When they're at—
Joanna: [laughing] You're like, "Exhibit A."
Jenny: Yeah, a note that I didn't read earlier. When they're at Giles' and Xander's busy eating the fly, and Riley takes the scarf off Buffy's neck, Riley says, after they've all seen the bite marks, "You shouldn't go near him again." And Giles says, "Riley is right." [a few cheers from crowd] Riley is right, you shouldn't go near the vampire that has bitten you. Giles is like—
Joanna: Yeah. Dracula, sure, but those babes. Okay. Follow-up—supporting argument. If you have seen Francis Ford Coppola's Bram Stoker's Dracula—
Kristin: [simultaneously] This is a mock trial.
Joanna: You know that Jonathan Harker, played by Keanu Reeves, also finds himself accosted by the brides of Dracula, one of whom is a very comely Monica Bellucci. His encounter is so monumental that it turns his trademark black Keanu curtain hair gray with the shock and joy— [laughs]
Jenny: Shock and awe, if you will?
Joanna: Yeah, I will.
Jenny: Of that encounter?
Joanna: Uh-huh. So does not Giles, who in this episode tells Willow, "I'm trying to get a life." And he's trying to get a life down in this chick pit—I mean, like, how long has it been since Giles had a lady friend over that they were all like, "ooh, Giles, what's this?" He's like, "I'm trying in the chick pit," and Riley's like, "no, no, sir." So...
Jenny: Here are some people that won't kill Giles while fucking him: Joyce Summers. [cheers] Olivia What's-Her-Bucket. [cheers] A bunch of—Joanna Robinson! [cheers]
Joanna: Well. You never know. [laughs]
Jenny: Kristin Russo!
Joanna: Uh, here's the deal. Joyce is teetering on the edge of joining the wicked club of Willow and Tara, so I don't know. Joyce might be off the menu, is what I'm saying. [laughter]
Jenny: I rue the day—the future day Joyce might go off the menu. How dare you, madam, make such an assertion?
Joanna: I just meant she might be enjoying more book clubs with, what, Pat?
Jenny: With Pat? Pat!
Joanna: Yeah. That's what I meant.
Kristin: I'm sorry, but I literally—now all I want is to have an actual trial of Riley. Like, where you all come to the trial...
Jenny: No, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no.
Kristin: You know? That's all I want.
Jenny: One other thing I'd like to say about the chick pit, if I may?
Kristin: Yes, what would you like to say about the chick pit?
Jenny: A lot of things, but the main thing is that I just want to let you all know that when Riley holds the cross down into the pit and the succubi scuttle away. Because of the aspect ratio of TVs when it aired, one of the brides of Dracula just moves over to the side of the screen and does this. [crowd laughs] But is still fully in the aspect ratio as it shows on Hulu, so please go back and enjoy that.
Joanna: Amazing.
Kristin: Joanna. I love you so much.
Joanna: I love you! Thanks for having me.
Jenny: Wait, I also love you!
Kristin: Yes, I mean, I just—
Jenny: Equally if not more than Kristin. [crowd reacts with "ohh!"] Equally! It's fine!
Kristin: Our second mock trial will be who loves Joanna more. [crowd laughs]
Joanna: Every! Body! Wins! [laughter]
Kristin: Joanna, I don't even want you to go yet. Do you have anything else you wanna tell us? Either about, like, Riley sucks, or...
Joanna: Yeah, I took a lot of notes backstage while you guys were talking.
Kristin: Yeah, I want to know some of them.
Jenny: What did we miss?
Joanna: Um. [laughs] Um, the reason Buffy is not B  atman... [crowd reacts]
Kristin: Ohh!
Jenny: It's almost as if you just came here to attack me? [laughter] And I don't know how to feel, but please go on.
Kristin: I want to know!
Jenny: I don't want Buffy to be Batman. He's very tortured. Please, go forth.
Joanna: Well, I'm just curious. Like, what is Buffy's version of her parents traumatically dying in an alley? Like, what is that—
Jenny: Her first Watcher canonically being murdered in front of her, before this series begins. I think!
Joanna: So we're saying Donald Sutherland...
Jenny: Well, Donald Sutherland in the movie, but her Watcher, whose name is eluding me, in the Origin comics— [crowd shouts out name]
Kristin: Merrick.
Jenny: Merrick. That, uh, Joss labels canonical.
Joanna: [giggling] Donald Sutherland. Okay.
Jenny: Donald Sutherland. [Joanna laughs] There seems to be some bad blood there, where nobody wants to speak the other's name, but basically, yes.
Joanna: Sure, okay.
Jenny: Does that work?
Joanna: Is that—okay.
Jenny: Or is it her parents' divorce? If I say anything while doing this with my shoulders, will you believe me more?
Joanna: I'm a little more convinced. [crowd laughs] The other thing we're missing—so she has an Alfred, obviously, in Giles, right? She has a Catwoman in Faith, obviously.
Jenny: Hot! [makes chainsaw noise]
Joanna: As we've said. She has a Robin in a sort of, like, Xandery-Willow hybrid thing, right? Right.
Jenny: Sure, don't let anybody kill them, got it.
Joanna: Right, yeah.
Jenny: I wonder if any other young people will surface...
Joanna: [simultaneously] She doesn't have a stately Wayne manor.
Jenny: Well, she's got that sweet, at least—
Joanna: She's got a craftsman. [laughs]
Jenny: At least two bedroom craftsman.
Joanna: She doesn't have, like, a lair. For awhile she had the cage in the library at Sunnydale High.
Kristin: Yeah!
Joanna: As her Batcave.
Jenny: Real estate prices in southern Los Angeles, look up a craftsman now and then.
Joanna: [laughing] So a craftsman and stately Wayne manor are the same sort of thing. Alright, I'll think about it. I'll think about it. I need her to get a Buff Mobile.
Kristin: Fuck yeah! In pink pleather.
Jenny: Is that not Riley? [cheers] Whew!
Kristin: You gotta give it to her when you gotta give it to her.
Joanna: Yeah, you know what—
Jenny: You know, when you pull off a boot that slow... [laughter] imagine how satisfying the ride will be, I should go.
Joanna: [laughs] No, I should go.
Jenny: I just remembered I have something that I should get to. So thank you for having me.
Joanna: No, no, no.
Kristin: Fucking please, please, please give it the fuck up for the perfect Joanna goddamn Robinson! [cheers]
Joanna: Love you. Love you both.
Kristin: Love you. Come on.
Jenny: How dare she. How dare she!
Kristin: How lucky are we that on Friday the 13th under the light of a full moon, we get to talk about Buffy vs. Dracula with these incredible human beings. You know? [cheers]
Jenny: While looking out upon your beautiful faces.
Kristin: Yes, they were all included in the—aww!
Jenny: You won't applaud yourselves? [cheers] Nice faces, yeah!
Kristin: I'm sorry, I just wanna take a hot second for you all here in Philadelphia. Because, like, when we're up here, we're like, half in here and half here, you know? But I just wanna take a second here—
Jenny: She gestured to the microphone, then she gestured to the audience. [laughter] Podcasting.
Kristin: Joanna brought me another whiskey, it's on! [crowd laughs] No, I just wanna say that the...energy that you all bring to a fucking room is beautiful and brilliant and wonderful. And you bring us so much love, and you bring so much love to each other, and I love you. And Jenny loves you, and some of you are hugging each other and you're gonna fucking kill me. [laughter] But we love you so fucking much . [cheers]
Jenny: [chanting] Mom is drunk! Mom is drunk! Mom is drunk! [crowd starts chanting along] You can also get—Kristin. Kristin, you could get them to chant something too. They'll do whatever we say. [laughter]
Kristin: No, no, I'm like, super into the "Mom is drunk" rant [sic]. [laughter] Okay, Jenny.
Jenny: Yo.
Kristin: Now, 40 hours later, Dracula would like Buffy to drink his bl— [a few people boo]
Jenny: Whoa, whoa, whoa. I just wanna let you know. And we're with you on the "boo." But I just wanna let you know—
Kristin: Pause on that "boo."
Jenny: That what I was saying when you were like, "you're all wrong." I want you to know that he does say, "but first a little taste. I didn't mean for me."
Kristin: Ohh!
Jenny: And then that stuff happens with the punching and the chick pit, and then—
Kristin: You're gonna fuck me with this edit.
Jenny: And then, later he's like [makes chainsaw noise], you know, with his wrist and his nails and he's all like, "you've never tasted blood." And this is...bananas, because we all know what blood tastes like. [laughter]
Kristin: Do you wanna know what, Jenny? I actually really do know, apart from just like, ow, I cut myself, and like, I know what blood tastes like from that. When I was a kid, I loved steak—sorry if you're a vegan, but I loved it. And I was always like, can I—my dad would give me pieces of the steak and then they would pour the juice, they called it, over the steak. And I was like, but I just love that. I just want that, I don't want the meat. I just want that. And my—
Jenny: Just bring me the blood! [laughter]
Kristin: And my parents, for a while, were like, "no." And finally, they gave up. They were like, "here's a fucking sippy cup, you fucking freak." [crowd laughs]
Jenny: What the fuck? I can't believe I'm finding out like this.
Kristin: I didn't like it, is the thing, though. Once the—you know. Whatever.
Jenny: You were like—you got the sippy cup and they were like, "find it! The darkness! Find your true nature!" [laughter] And you were like, "actually, I'm thinking about joining the theater group?" [laughter]
Kristin: Yeah, it was then that I bought my custom fangs and my velvet dress. Alright. So, now we are in the scene where Dracula wants Buffy to drink his blood. And my question to you, Jenny—because we have a long history...in general, but also with milk? [crowd laughs] I wanna know if you would prefer to drink a sip of blood or a sip of milk.
Jenny: A sip of blood.
Kristin: Whole milk.
Jenny: A sip of blood. A sip o  f blood. A sip of blood! It's salty, it's non-dairy. It's not exactly vegan, but like…
Kristin: Oh my god, is—it's not—
Jenny: I can't make m  ilk right now. You know, but blood, I have, so it feels like...less...it feels like less of an other and more of a, ha. Gesturing—I'm creating, for podcast listeners, a force field around myself in the air, where all my blood lives, I guess. [laughter] And you?
Kristin: Definitely bl—obviously blood, I drank from a sippy cup when I was a child. [laughter] Don't like milk.
Jenny: I...is it..indelicate to say... [crowd cheers] [long pause] No, no, no, never mind, sorry, I take— [crowd jeers]
Kristin: What?!
Jenny: No, no, no!
Kristin: You can't do that!
Jenny: It's not even that—it's just, like, a cross—okay, so. During our break, Kristin and I both each started making other podcasts, and I've been making a Veronica Mars podcast. [cheers] Called Veronica Mars Investigations, and Kristin has been making a My So-Called Life podcast with Joanna! [cheers] Called The Boiler Room. And my co-host on Veronica Mars Investigations, Helen Zaltzman, and I recently had to talk about an episode where a character named Duncan Kane drinks a bunch of fucking milk right out of the jug! [crowd reacts] Right out of the jug, and it's not as bad as the mayor's milk, which is just out on a cart all day in Sunnydale. But it's still pretty offensive, so I recently have talked a lot about milk drinking and I want you to know, my position has not changed. No evidence has come to light to make me feel better about people drinking milk, especially out of containers that are larger than just a cup. [crowd laughs]
Kristin: And with that, we bring you the Sexual Tension Awards. [cheers] [SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays] Sexual tension award!
Jenny: Who's got it? Who's got it in this episode? So many pairings.
Kristin: Jenny, are you gonna do them all?
Jenny: Do you wanna go...back and forth?
Kristin: Yeah, I didn't write any down but I'll just say the ones I remember. Are you ready for the nominees? [cheers] First up, we have [accent] "Dracula" and Buffy. Obviously.
Jenny: Obviously. Secondly, we have—
Kristin: Nobody's here for the obvious. They're like, "and moving on..."
Jenny: "Please go on. Do you have any inanimate objects in the running this week?" [laughter] Secondly, we have Dracula and Xander! [cheers] They've got a beautiful love going on.
Kristin: Oh no, I only remember the last one.
Jenny: You remember this one?
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Okay. So then we have...Joanna's fave, Giles and the Dracu-babes.
Kristin: Oh yeah! [cheers]
Jenny: Of course!
Kristin: And last but certainly not least, we have our sexy men. [cheers]
Jenny: Two sexy guys!
Kristin: Spike and Riley. [cheers]
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: Who's gonna bench-press who? [laughter]
Jenny: Oh my god! Please participate. Please make your voice heard in our beautiful democracy by voting in our Twitter poll, @bufferingcast, for your pick for the Sexual Tension Awards for this episode and every episode. Thank you.
Kristin: So Dracula is like, "find your true nature..."
Jenny: Wah-wah-wah...
Kristin: Oh, something important happens. [crowd laughs] Dracula says a line that is very similar to this MTV show that had Britney Spears on it one time. But he says, "you think you know..." [crowd laughs] "what you are, what's to come. You haven't even begun." Which sounds—
Jenny: [sarcastically] Where have I heard that before? Besides MTV? [laughter]
Kristin: It sounds familiar.
Jenny: [sarcastically] Did I hear that in a dream or something?
Kristin: Restless! This audience member says we've heard it in Restless.
Jenny: That sounds right.
Kristin: So...I don't know—
Jenny: It must be true.
Kristin: Maybe you remember 45 hours ago when I said we were tying together the end of Season 4 and the beginning of Season 5. Oh, I don't have 14 pages, I just have 11 and I'm on 10. So, an important line, a line we've heard, a line we hear again. What could it mean? Who the fuck knows. Not me. Buffy's like, "yo, that was fucking gross." Which is what I said when I drank blood out of a sippy cup. [laughter] And then we return to the Buffy we know and love. And she's like, "the thrall is wearing the fuck off." That's in the uncensored version. [crowd laughs] "You wanna taste my true nature?" And we're like, yes!
Jenny: Yes we do!
Kristin: [sighs] Giles tries to get his shoe. Whatever. [laughter]
Jenny: Giles is like, oops! My shirt is open! How did that happen? Buttons are hard.
Kristin: So Buffy and Dracula fight and we all know who the fuck is gonna dominate. 'Cause it's gonna be Buffy. And I said the one line, but the real line is when she's like, "How do you like my darkness now?" [cheers]
Jenny: While her stake is protruding from his chest! Hell fucking yeah!
Kristin: Like, that—I'm gonna get that tattooed on my body. [laughter] Mom is drunk. [crowd laughs and cheers] Okay, so. Before I go get my tattoo.
Jenny: Okay, okay, okay. So they're like, we know we've been spending a lot on the CGI budget [starts laughing and speaking high-pitched] for this episode with the storm and the bat! But let's just blow one more load on the fucking Dracula being dusted and then falling down the stairway! [crowd laughs]
Kristin: I literally understood none of that. [laughter]
Jenny: [clears throat] Then they're like—Dad doesn't get drunk. [cheers] Then they're like...
Kristin: Dad gets drunk real easy. [crowd laughs]
Jenny: Yeah. [laughter] So then they're like, we know we already spent a bunch of the season's CGI budget on that incredible storm in the beginning of the episode and that wild human-to-bat transformation in the middle of the episode. But let's just spend another chunk of CGI change on Dracula kind of dusting while rolling down the stairs, the skeleton and the whole thing and poof and whatever. It looks bad. I mean, it looks good for the time, for the network, whatever. It's bad.
Kristin: Yeah. And, you know, what's funny is that this—so. Dracula stakes Buffy—I mean. [crowd laughs] Buffy stakes Dracula. Shut up, everybody!
Jenny: [sarcastically] "Dad gets drunk real easy!" she said. [laughter]
Kristin: Jenny's had one beer, I've had two whiskeys. Buffy stakes Dracula, Dracula's like "oh no, I'm dead but I'm back." And then there's this weird little connection between this episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer and the movie. Right? Where—because this is like—one of the scenes that I remember from the movie Buffy the Vampire Slayer the most is when she kills that vampire and he's like [makes dying noises]. You know, for like, forever. [laughter] He never dies, whatever. And I feel like that's the comedy that's being pulled in with this kill, where she's like, "I'm fucking standing right here." And he's like, "you're right." [crowd laughs]
Jenny: "I'll mist away now."
Kristin: He mists away. Okay, so Dracula's gone, but not dead, of course, 'cause Dracula never dies.
Jenny: Meanwhile.
Kristin: Meanwhile.
Jenny: Speaking of dads.
Kristin: Speaking of dads! [crowd "awws"]
Jenny: I know.
Kristin: I know. Can I play a clip? I know we've been here for two hours. [cheers] I just wanna—because it's just...it's a lot, okay? So I'm just gonna—give me a second 'cause I have to find it. Here it is, okay. I have to skip ahead, so just pause...here we go. If my phone stopped [inaudible] [Clip from episode starts]
Buffy: I need to know more. About where I come from, about the other slayers. I mean, maybe...maybe if I learn to control this thing, I could be stronger. I could be better. But...I'm scared. I know it's gonna be hard. And I can't do it without you. I need your help. I need you to be my Watcher again.
[crowd: "Aww!"]
Kristin: [high-pitched] Okay, so. [Jenny audibly shakes self] Give me a minute, 'cause I need to play one more thing for us. Okay, here we go. [GILES jingle starts] Giles! Hot dad! When you were younger you were real bad But now you're older, you got glasses That help you watch over us! Thank you, Giles! [applause]
Kristin: Okay. So Buffy's—whatever, we get it, right?
Jenny: Dad is so excited that he forgets England is even a country? [laughter]
Kristin: He's like, "all I ever wanted was to be needed by you and now I am!" [sighs] So it's wonderful. Giles is not leaving. Buffy wants to really dig in to this thing that she's found about herself. Which is a thing she's really been battling, if you think about it, since Season 3. 'Cause like, this thing arrived with Faith. Faith was like, "you are more than what you think you are."
Jenny: Mm-hmm.
Kristin: And Buffy was like, "do you wanna make out?" And then later ... [crowd laughs]
Jenny: After they were done making out, then. ..
Kristin: Yeah. Then, yeah. But this is a big thing. So we're flirting with it in this episode. We're flirting with another thing in this episode, because we leave the scene with Giles, to our final scene. [Jenny starts audibly breathing] You think the episode is over! Giles is staying! But no. We go to the Summers' residence—yes, Jenny? Jenny, do you have something you'd like to say?
Jenny: I just desperately don't want you to miss a detail that I almost missed. And it seems like the kind of thing that could just slide by. So Buffy is telling her mom that she's about to go out with Riley to a movie. That's not what I'm interested in. Contrary to what you might think. She goes over to her room, looks in it and sees a brunette girl. But behind the brunette girl is what I wanna talk about—
Kristin: I—
Jenny: Are you fucking—hell yeah!
Kristin: Got it in my fucking notes.
Jenny: The greatest mystery of Season 5, Episode 1.
Jenny and Kristin: [yelling] What is in the Magic Eye? [laughter]
Jenny: There is a Magic Eye poster behind this brunette girl, and if anyone can tell us what's in it, we will be very grateful. Thank you. [crowd laughs and claps]
Kristin: Did you have a Magic Eye?
Jenny: I never did.
Kristin: I did. You wanna know—
Jenny: What was it? Was it the Statue of Liberty?
Kristin: It was the Statue of Liberty!
Jenny: There were only, like, five at Spencer Gifts. Which, did you know, has been rebranded as Spencer's, apostrophe-s? Because everyone just called it Spencer's, even though it was always Spencer Gifts.
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: And then they were like, fuck it. It's kinda like me, I'm always on the verge of being like, should I just change my name to Jenny Owens -Young? [laughter] Just give in, just embrace the sweet release of whatever'ing my name. Put the "s" wherever, I'm tired! [crowd laughs]
Kristin: My sister—speaking of sisters. My sister used to call Jenny, "Jennys Owens-Youngs."
Jenny: Which honestly is less offensive 'cause it feels intentional. [crowd laughs]
Kristin: Alright! So the biggest mystery of this episode is what's in the Magic Eye?
Jenny: [simultaneously] The second-biggest—
Kristin: And who the fuck is that?!
Jenny: Who's that girl? Because Joyce says, "If you're going out, why don't you take your sister?" [crowd reacts] And then they both say, "Mom!"
Kristin: [simultaneously] "Mom!" And on that note. I am Kristin Russo. [cheers] You can follow me @KristinNoeline on all the social media outlets. And who are you?
Jenny: I'm Jenny Owen-Youngs. [cheers]
Kristin: Really thought you were gonna go "Dracula." [laughter]
Jenny: [long pause, more laughter] I'd rather they just find me on the internet. So it's Jenny Owen-Youngs. But I do have shoulder-length hair and a cape, just to be very clear for those just listening and not actually looking at us right now.
Kristin: Follow her @Mist. [laughter]
Jenny: @Mist, @Bat, @RooftopWolf. [laughter] And also @JennyOwenYoungs.
Kristin: We are Buffering the Vampire Slayer. You can find us here in Philadelphia. [cheers]
Jenny: Under the light of a full moon! On Friday the 13th!
Kristin: Oh my god! We are going to call out our special guests again and turn a mic over to you for our farewell. Are you all ready? [crowd affirms] Joanna, Ian, come on out! [applause] [indistinct talking]
Jenny: Yes! Mom's drunk! And...till next time...
Everyone: Awwooooooooo!
Kristin: Thank you, Philadelphia! [applause] [indistinct talking and laughing]
Kristin: Thank you! [cheering] [Jenny performing "Buffy vs. Dracula" off the album Songs from Season Five by Buffering the Vampire Slayer] I swear I could feel you coming from a long way off Somewhere hiding in the dark coming to wake me up Found me in the cemetery, I was easy prey The blood in your eyes draining my fight away And you can Take what you want straight from my heart Take what you want from me Daylight dreaming of the promise of eternal life Hey I just wanna live forever in a long dark night Saw you in the cemetery and I lost my grip Knew if I fell under your spell, that’s it And you can Take what you want straight from my heart Take what you want from me Take what you want straight from my heart Take what you want from me Does this feel like love? So caught up in the buzz I forget who I was; what the hell have a done? When you stared in my eyes, there was nowhere to hide You said look inside; that’s when I found my fight Now you can’t Take what you want straight from my heart Take what you want from me You can’t Take what you want straight from my heart Take what you want from me I bet you don’t like my darkness like you thought you would