Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 0.09: Season 2 Wrap-Up
Jenny: Today’s episode is brought to you by LeVar Burton Reads. A lot of us learned to love a good story by watching LeVar Burton, host of the fantastic TV show Reading Rainbow . I know I did. Although you might also know
LeVar from his years as Geordi on Star Trek: The Next Generation.
Kristin: Well, LeVar has a new podcast that recreates the magic for grown-ups. It’s called LeVar Burton Reads. Every episode, LeVar picks one of his favorite short stories, like the great sci-fi story "Kin" by Bruce McAllister, and reads it to you. We both think that you’re really gonna enjoy this podcast, so go on over and subscribe to LeVar Burton Reads in Stitcher, Apple Podcast, or wherever you listen to your podcasts. This episode is also brought to you by Modcloth. Modcloth is your go-to spot for fashion that’s as unique as you are. Modcloth believes that fashion is for every body size and shape, which is why their exclusive line of apparel comes in a full size range, from extra-extra-small to 4X. Snag all of your summer essentials with this exclusive deal. Go to modcloth.com and enter promo code "Buffy" at checkout. You’ll get 30% off your order of $100 or more.
NOTES: [chime sounds]
Jenny: Hey everybody. Before we get into today's Season 2 wrap up episode, we have just a few things to let you know.
Kristin: Oh boy, and what episode it is going to be! We've got Kate Leth, we've got Gaby Dunn, we've got Joanna Robinson, Brittani Nichols and so many of you. It's going to rule. But before we get there, let's talk about New York City.
Jenny: My favorite place.
Kristin: Uh-huh, mine too. We're going to be in New York City this August, August 19th and 20th. There is a thing happening in Brooklyn called FlameCon. Which is an amazing event. It’s its third year, and it is a con that celebrates specifically LGBTQ creators. We will be doing a live taping and we will also be doing a musical performance. Kate Leth is going to be there, Heather Hogan is going to be there, a lot of really rad people are going to be there. If you can make it out, come and say hi.
Jenny: And if you can't make it out, don't feel too bad, because you can totally check in on our exploits on our new Instagram! Where we will be posting photographic evidence of everything we do for the rest of time, including going to FlameCon and also having a new cat.
Kristin: [laughing] It's true. Sam, our new cat, has a hashtag you might appreciate it. It is "once more with Sam." Get it? Get it, guys?
Jenny: I get it, I get it.
Kristin: [sarcastically] You get it, okay, great. Before we roll into the episode, we do want to let you know that if you are a patron of ours over on Patreon, you can find out more about that on our website bufferingthevampireslayer.com and clicking on Patreon, if you are a patron of ours, you voted your hearts out for our next Buffy watch. And the winner of that vote-off is "Band Candy"!
Jenny: Whoo-whoo!
Kristin: So yeah, pretty exciting. We will be watching "Band Candy" with all of our patrons, live on our secret Facebook group, on July 30th. We’re really, really, really pumped about it! If you want to join us, you can. You can be a Patreon at any level and all the details are there on our Patreon page. July 30th, "Band Candy," me and Jenny, all of you, it's gonna rule!
Jenny: Yes, and now without further ado, let's get into it.
NOTES: [INTRO MUSIC]
Jenny: Hello and welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast where we are watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, one at this time. I am Jenny Owen Youngs…
Kristin: And I am Kristin Russo, and today we have a very special episode. We did it! We finished Season 2. And we have a lot of thoughts about some of the moments that we shared together with you this past season. We are going to talk about those thoughts, some of our favorite moments, some of the character arcs, some big losses, the sexual tension award showdown. We have messages from Gaby Dunn, Brittani Nichols, Kate Leth, Joanna Robinson and so many of you. It is going to be quite a party.
Jenny: I'm pretty excited.
Kristin: Are you ready?
Jenny: I'm ready.
Kristin: Woo, me too.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: So probably the best place to begin, I mean, let's be real, any of these places will be great places to begin–
Jenny: Sure, sure, sure.
Kristin: But why don't we start with some of the characters. I mean, we don't often get a chance in the series to talk specifically about characters, you know, outside of–
Jenny: Their larger arcs.
Kristin: Right, their larger arc. So let's just, like, take… I think we're going to do Buffy, Willow, Cordelia, Xander and Giles in this season. I think that they're the–
Jenny: Core crew.
Kristin: They're the core crew. They're the crew that also has, like, arcs. We’re gonna also talk about some significant losses, because you know, Jenny Calendar and Kendra, they also have some arcs, but we'll talk about them in that section–
Jenny: Mhmm.
Kristin: Where we talk about who we have lost this season. So let's start with Buffy.
Jenny: Let's start with Buffy. Wow. She began this season recently having come back from being temporarily dead and then on vacation at her dad's in LA.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: She came back real mean.
Kristin: She did.
Jenny: She was working out some stuff.
Kristin: She was working out some stuff, and as you do when you are in your teens or your 20s or your 30s, probably your 40s, 50s, 60s and forever. You work through some stuff and then you find some more stuff behind that stuff [Jenny laughs] that you also have to work through. Which is kind of what happened to Buffy, right. Like, she came back really fucked up because she had died so that's legitimate.
Jenny: That's a lot.
Kristin: That's a pretty legitimate reason to feel really fucked up. And she got her feet under her, I think, you know, a few episodes into the season. And she started like, really falling in love with Angel and then they had sex, she lost her virginity, if we're gonna put any value on that, that's complicated in the land of feminism, and what, Jenny?
Jenny: The patriarchy!
Kristin: [laughing] Correct. Don't worry, we'll have a whole segment on the patriarchy in a minute. [laughing] But she sort of, like, starts to get her feet under her. And then this season– I think one of the biggest arcs of this whole season is really complicating what is evil and what is good, and that those two things really don't stay on their own sides very well.
Jenny: Right, right, not here.
Kristin: Right and so I think that–
Jenny: They're like two popsicles on a table, melting towards each other.
Kristin: [laughing] Wow.
Jenny: [slowly] Popsicles.
Kristin: So I think that that's her biggest growth, and also it's not resolved.
Jenny: Right, right, right.
Kristin: That, like, she’s really still struggling with that by the end of the season.
Jenny: But also, I feel like by the end of the season, she has become the most "the slayer" that she has been up to this point.
Kristin: Yes, I agree.
Jenny: Because she started in Season 1 as a very reluctant slayer. And she grew through Season 1 and she continued to grow through Season 2. And it's becoming more and more and more a part of her core essence.
Kristin: Yeah, I mean, Buffy started this season talking to Kendra about how she viewed this– or, you know, Kendra saying "you view this as a job and that's not what this is, this is who you are." And so that's another big thing, those are some other shoes that Buffy stepped into. Although not really, because she always just wears that one pair of boots.
Jenny: Right, right, right.
Kristin: But metaphorically speaking, [laughing] she stepped into her slayer shoes. Much more in Season 2. And I mean, you know, obviously we've seen the series and we know that many of these characters are going to continue to grow and change and struggle, and find more demons to battle, both literally and figuratively.
Jenny: But at this point, she has faced what would have to be the biggest conflict of personal interest and professional or sacred duty that you could imagine–
Kristin: Absolutely.
Jenny: Especially as a teenager, and she did, you know, what we’d consider the right thing.
Kristin: Absolutely, and because of that– and we're obviously going to talk about the finale a little bit, it’s gonna have its own little segment at the end here. But you know, because of that, she’s ending this season– like, she ended the last season dying and then coming back to life, but kind of came into this season, like, confused and lost. And she is ending this season confused and lost in a much deeper way. I think in a way that, you know where you think you’ve– [sighing] you think you've struggled, you think you understand, like, how confused you can be, and then the next page turns and you're like, "are you kidding me?"
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: You wish– you want for the time when your only struggle was that you had just died. [Both laughing] That’s where Buffy, I think, finds herself at the end of this season.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: So Willow…
Jenny and Kristin in unison: Willow!
Jenny: Willow’s getting so strong.
Kristin: Willow– right. Willow has found her voice more than anything, I think. Willow– certainly from Season 1 Willow, where, you know, we had– that scene that I remember most from Season 1 is her and Cordelia, where Cordelia’s making fun of her dress and she’s so quiet, and at the Bronze, she’s so quiet and shy. And Willow really finds herself in this season through Oz, I think. Like, you know, through finding love and a respectful kind of love, I think that really gives–
Jenny: Yeah, and a non one-sided love.
Kristin: Right, I think that gives her strength and I think seeing the power that she has also gives her strength. And caring and fighting for the people that she loves gives her a voice that I don’t think she even necessarily knew she had. We’ve talked about the scene where she screams at Giles and Angel, right. It was of my favorite moments. And that’s, like, one of the firsts for Willow of being like, hey, this is enough. Enough is enough, I have shit to say and I’m gonna say it.
Jenny: Yeah. Which is so awesome. And she’s not the only one. We also have Cordelia, in an unprecedented move, totally telling off the Cordettes and being like, screw you guys. You suck.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: You’re mean. I don’t care what you think. I’m gonna make decisions for me, even if that decision is dating Xander Harris.
Kristin: Right, right. Cordelia starts dating Xander this season, which is a controversial choice amongst the viewers and the opinionated fans.
Jenny: Right, right. I like it for this for the story.
Kristin: Yeah. I mean, I think it’s really– I think it’s great for both of their characters because both Cordelia and… Cordelia grows in a way that is measured, it’s not this… she doesn’t start one way and end a totally different way.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: Cordelia retains her Cordelia-ness…
Jenny: But her heart is just starting to crack open just a little bit. We’re just starting to see a little bit of the softer side of Cordelia.
Kristin: Right. I think that Cordelia is hardened mostly because of insecurity, defensiveness. Feeling like she wants to belong, she needs to retain power so that people respect her. Those are some of the crosses that she bears, right? But for Cordelia, as the season goes on, she gets more comfortable and so I think she just starts to let some of that defense go, and starts to allow herself to be vulnerable.
Jenny: Yeah and allow herself to be a part of this new group of people.
Kristin: Yeah, all the while, still maintaining her love for fashion. You know? Like, these things can go together. ‘Cause Cordelia is very layered, I don’t know if you know that about her.
Jenny: I did know that.
Kristin: But Cordelia contains many a layer.
Jenny: She also… falls in love?
Kristin: She does. She does fall in love. I know, right? I mean, Xander and Cordelia are in love. Every person on our list falls in love.
Jenny: [speaking over] Every character we are discussing right now falls in love this season.
Kristin: Buffy has fallen in love with Angel. Willow has fallen in love with Oz. Cordelia and Xander have fallen in love with each other, despite fighting it at every turn. [Jenny laughs] Giles falls in love with Jenny. There’s a lot of different love arcs in this season, but right, Cordelia falls in love.
Jenny: Hurray!
Kristin: And it’s with Xander. Let’s talk about Xander.
Jenny: Yeah, Xander is becoming less fixated on Buffy, right, which–
Kristin: Yes. Thank god.
Jenny: Which makes so much room for him to have other characteristics, which is nice.
Kristin: Right. I think Xander gets a lot less whiny in this season, you know? Like, he’s still Xander so he still has his Xander teenage boy–
Jenny: Snark.
Kristin: Right, "but I want to do this and I want to do that and bleh." It’s still there, it’s not gone, but it has, like Cordelia–
Jenny: Right, it’s becoming tempered with something else.
Kristin: Right, and it’s becoming more nuanced. And he is also– because a lot of Xander’s actions also come from a place of insecurity and from– we’ve talked about this. His actions come from the patriarchy too, wanting to prove himself as a member of the patriarchy, in some sense of the word. And I think that he starts to let go of that as well. I mean, they’re all facing– the whole Scooby gang, they’re facing life and death. And it’s so present in their lives and these are high school students, right. They’re young people who would normally be grappling with issues that are still significant, but certainly not life or death. And I think that puts these characters, all of them, on a fast track to saying, you know what, we’re going to have to really prioritize here. And for Xander, that means getting over some of his shit and he does.
Jenny: Right, right, right.
Kristin: And he does.
Jenny: And how interesting, actually, now that I’m thinking about this for the first time, to see Cordelia and Xander as sort of the most evidently insecure main characters that we see getting paired together and allowing each other to grow and develop.
Kristin: Right, perhaps it took that. Perhaps it takes, when you are in a position where you are feeling insecure and it’s hard for you to be vulnerable, to be with somebody who’s struggling with those same things. I think it could take many combinations for individual people, but I think for them, they must see a little bit of themselves in each other, as much as that makes them want to vomit, you know. [Both laugh] Which is the brilliance of their pairing. I think there’s a lot to say there, but I do think that they both see so much growth because of it.
Jenny: And last but not least, Giles, good old Rupert Giles.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Falls in love, suffers a great loss, faces some of his literal and figurative demons from an earlier part of his life, is tortured for hours by Angelus, becomes even more of a father figure to Buffy and gets a lot closer to Buffy, and his relationships are deepening with all of the younger characters.
Kristin: Yeah, absolutely. Giles really goes through the ringer this season. I mean, they all do. They all do in their own ways but I just feel like Giles, both with physical, actual torture, emotional heart-wrenching torture, I just think Giles has really gone through it. And like you said, Jenny, it deepens his role as a caretaker in a sense, because I think that in his loss, he has also seen how much they take care of him. So there’s this–
Jenny: Yeah. And he’s also absorbing their pain, like, he’s a buffer for their kind of pain as well.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: And, oh my god, I’m just realizing this too. Both and Buffy and Giles, in a way, lose their love interests to the same demonic presence this season.
Kristin: Yeah, absolutely.
Jenny: They both lose their loves to Angelus.
Kristin: So it’s like, there’s this symbiosis situation occurring. You know, it’s like– I don’t know much about the military, but I know that–
Jenny: Go on?
Kristin: Sorry, quick transition, but I know that some of the mindset there is, to break everybody down together so that they can be built back up as one unit. These are rumors I hear about, literally, I shouldn’t be speaking on this. But that’s kind of what I think the mindset is when you want people to be working together well, is that they kind of– you start from scratch and become a working team together. And I really think that’s what’s happening here with the Scoobies, is that they’ve all been knocked down so hard and this season, they’ve been sort of piecing that together, but with each other. So they’re becoming a unit that can really fight together much more powerfully and they know each other. They know each other so much better than they did at the start of the season and certainly at the beginning of the series. They know their nuances. They know what Xander’s role is and what Xander can do and what Willow can do. It’s just a really– it’s a beautiful thing to watch.
Jenny: I’m getting a lot of goosebumps right now. Thanks.
Kristin: [laughs] R.L. Stine’s Goosebumps or just actual…?
Jenny: Yes. Both. Both kinds.
Kristin: Great. You know what else will give you goosebumps, Jenny?
Jenny: What’s that?
Kristin: Some Sexual Tension Awards.
Jenny: Yeeeeesss?
Kristin: So, you all know that we have this ongoing bracket happening. Our listener Emily started this bracket to showdown the 22 Sexual Tension Award winners and narrow it down to the one winner. We’re gonna talk more about that in a second because it’s still ongoing, but first, before we get there, I want Jenny and I to talk about some of our favorites from the season.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Do you have a favorite?
Jenny: I– you know, I’ve never been a favorite, like, a single favorite picker. I am too indecisive and I have too much love to give.
Kristin: Yeah. Same. Same. I usually can’t pick a favorite, I have some favorites. 
Jenny: Right. Right. Right. You know I can’t get enough of Rupert Giles and Ethan Rayne.
Kristin: Ugh! Who can?
Jenny: Nobody!
Kristin: Nobody. Their love has withstood the test of time. It started in their wee youth…
Jenny: Uh-huh. Uh-huh.
Kristin: And has been just stirred up again, twice this season. Two times!
Jenny: Yeah and they’ve got those accents and there’s something almost fairytale-esque about their relationship, because they were like, so close and now one of them is good and one of them is evil.
Kristin: Right. But complicated, of course, because evil is not just one thing.
Jenny: Yes. Oh my god.
Kristin: Evil can contain sexual tension, after all.
Jenny: Sexual tension multitudes.
Kristin: Not to mention, speaking of other favorites, Kendra and Buffy…
Jenny: Awww.
Kristin: I’m just going tell you all something that I’ve already told you. Anytime there’s a slayer and another slayer, I’m gonna be into it. [Jenny laughs] I like it. There’s a big power play. There’s something very sexy about being the only one, but then being the only one, also.
NOTES: [Both laugh]
Jenny: Don’t you just wish they would get an apartment together?
Kristin: More than anything. More than anything, I wish that they would stay up all night, talking about slaying and demons and putting on face masks and making out. That’s what I want for them.
Jenny: Wow. So, like, making out with the face masks on?
Kristin: No. I guess– well, maybe, that’d be like fun and silly but then they would take the masks off later and then make out for real.
Jenny: Wow. You’ve given this a lot of thought.
Kristin: I really have.
Jenny: I’m comfortable with that.
Kristin: Great. The other… I mean, there’s so many, there’s so many! But we would be remiss not to talk about the thruple.
Jenny: Going strong!
Kristin: Right? This is like, evil, evil, evil. Like, evil times three and also just complete insanity because we have all of their different relationships to evil.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: Right. Like, Angel is…
Jenny: And they’ve like, made each other, you know?
Kristin: Yes. Yes. There’s...
Jenny: There’s a whole thing.
Kristin: There’s incest, there’s evil...
Jenny: Yeah. Sire, grand-sire.
Kristin: It’s almost like an episode of Game of Thrones
Jenny: Oh my god.
NOTES: [Both laugh]
Kristin: So the thruple has, I mean, I think that where it comes to direct, obvious, over the head sexual tension, the thruple may be the personal Kristin winner. I don’t get to choose because this is a democracy.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: But, you know, the thruple– I don’t know, there’s just something very, very sexy.
Jenny: Well, there’s three of them, that puts them in a category all their own.
Kristin: Yeah, when it comes to sexual energy. Ugh! I’m gonna talk about this moment probably again but another moment that I will never forget is Willow and Cordelia. I won’t even narrow it down to a moment. [Jenny laughs] Willow and Cordelia…
Jenny: Just whenever they’re together, it’s good.
Kristin: Right? So, anyhow. We have this bracket and this bracket has been going on and shit has been getting really intense. It has put Kendra and Buffy up against Rupert Giles and Ethan. Like, hard, impossible choices to make and yet we have powered through. We have made the choices and we have narrowed it down to three, as a collective unit of Buffy the Vampire Slayer fans. The final three standing in the competition are...
Jenny: [drumroll noises]
Kristin: Ethan and Giles in Episode 8: The Dark Age. Angel and Xander in
Episode 18: Killed by Death or The Thruple in Episode 10: I Only Have Eyes For You. [drumroll stops] You, yes you, can go and vote for your favorite. Head on over to our Patreon page, you don’t have to be a Patron to participate, and there will be link there where you can rank those last three standing Sexual Tension Award winners. The voting will be open until end of day Sunday. And the winner will receive the biggest trophy of them all, won’t they, Jenny?
Jenny: They will. I’ve been down at FedEx getting quotes.
Kristin: I was gonna say, we need a special mail carrier for this one.
Jenny: Yeah. It’s gonna be pretty big. And heavy.
Kristin: Wow. So we can’t wait. Again, Emily, thank you so much. We hope, Emily, you will do this for us, with us, every season.
Jenny: Oh my gosh.
Kristin: And you know, when we get to Season 7, what’s gonna happen?
Jenny: What’s gonna happen? Oh my god!
Kristin: We’re gonna have to do the ultimate, ultimate, ultimate showdown. Ugh, so much fun lies ahead. I can’t wait. Thank you to all the players in this wonderful game of sexual tension.
Jenny: Seriously.
Kristin: [laughs] You know who I’d like to hear from right now?
Jenny: Who?
Kristin: I would like to hear– speaking of thruples…
Jenny: [laughing] Yes!
Kristin: Why don’t we bring in our third, Kate Leth. We sat down and talked to Kate about some of her favorite moments from Season Two, specifically related to fashion.
NOTES: [Kate Leth Intro Jingle Plays] It’s time for our friend Kate To give you the Buffy fashion update
Kristin: Kate!
Jenny: Kate Leth!
Kate: Hey buddies.
Jenny: The one, the only, the all powerful.
Kristin: You’re here, you’re here.
Kate: That’s such a good introduction thank you.
NOTES: [all laugh]
Kristin: I know we’re usually in our separate vacuums, we don’t get to hold each other vocally, but now we do.
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: We’re so glad to have you here on our finale episode– wrap– I can’t believe that we’re done with Season 2.
Kate: I can’t believe it either. This is so bizarre. We’ve been on this journey for so long together.
Jenny: Right! [Kristin laughs] So many sweater sets, so many dresses.
Kate: So many micro-mini skirts.
NOTES: [Kristin and Jenny groan]
Kristin: Season 2 was good to us, fashion-wise.
Jenny: But alarmingly few pairs of boots. So few boots.
Kristin: Yeah.
Kate: It’s just the one. What more do you need?
Kristin: Okay, so Kate, before we get into Season 2, people have been tweeting at us non-stop about this Hot Topic line of Buffy clothing! So how– what are your feelings? People have a lot of feelings about this and I can’t think of a better person to ask than Kate Leth, Buffy Fashion Watch.
Kate: Well, thank you, that’s so kind and accurate. [Kristin and Jenny laugh] I live near a mall that has both a Boxed Lunch and a Hot Topic, and both them sell the Buffy line of fashion things. But it’s actually–
Jenny: Oh my god. Wait, did you see it in person when you were at the mall the other day?
Kate: Oh, I did, yeah.
Jenny: You posted a lot about about being at the mall.
Kate: I’ve touched… I’ve fondled those sweaters… [all laugh] They didn’t– they had– I saw, in both of the stores, the Faith jacket and the Buffy jacket but not the Willow sweater. The jackets are actually pretty decent, I like them a lot. I think the only thing that bothered me, and this is gonna seem so picky and you may or may not agree with me, is that the lining on each of them has a bunch of… stuff.
Jenny: [sounding restrained] Mm-hmm!
Kate: And it’s…
Kristin: Yeah, we’re with you, we’re with you, Kate.
Kate: Someone’s got an opinion. [Jenny laughs] But the thing that bothered me on the Faith one was that it said "five-slash-five," which I know is meant to symbolize five by five…
Jenny: No, no, no, no, no.
Kate: But to me, that’s like, five out of five.
Jenny: Yeah, that’s trash.
Kristin: Yeah, that’s the number one, is what that is.
Kate: [laughing] That is, right? This is just a whole fraction.
Jenny: 100 percent. No, no, no, no.
Kristin: Kate, I can’t– you know how some people do their jobs, but then some people do their jobs . The fact that we’re, like, "Kate, what do you think of the new line?" and you’re like, "well, I was the mall touching the items with my hands."
Jenny: [laughs] Literally trying to see you at the mall.
Kristin: Literally. You’re really taking it to the next level.
Kate: Look, my sign-off is very real, I’m at the mall a lot.
NOTES: [All laugh]
Kristin: Amazing. Kate, obviously we’re going to talk to you before we leave you about your favorite fashion moments from Season 2. But before we get there, you– last time you were with us, you gave us a feelings watch, your very first feelings watch?
Kate: I did, Did.
Kristin: And so we were wondering if you had any other moments from Season 2 that you really wanted to talk about in this, our wrap-up episode.
Kate: It’s hard. I mean, that is sort-of the quintessential moment for me in Season 2. I love this– it’s my favorite season. I think it is for a lot of people because it’s where the show really found its footing and figured out what it was. And "Halloween" is definitely one of my favorites. I’ve seen that episode so many times, I have it, like, memorized.
Kristin: Yes. We sat next to you watching that episode. [Jenny laughs] So we can attest to that. [Kristin laughs]
Kate: I love "School Hard," I love all of the stuff with Spike and Dru. And I’m a sucker for "Passion" with its opening and closing monologues, as cheesy and melodramatic as it is and, like, totally heartbreaking. It’s a really, really solid episode and it always makes my sort of top list. It doesn’t for everybody, but I love "Passion." I love the heartbreak.
Kristin: Right? I know.
Kate: I love to feel the pain.
Kristin: Of course. I’m with you there, you know, give me some Sarah Mclaughlin any day.
Kate: Yes. Oh my god, I cannot think of it. They use Sarah McLachlan multiple times for season enders in Buffy.
Jenny: Yeah, she keeps coming back.
Kristin: Yeah. They knew, in the 90s, Sarah McLachlan was akin to using Willow as a tool. You know, you put like one note of Sarah McLachlan’s–
Jenny: Just a sure-fire dagger between the ribs.
Kristin: Yeah, the airy voice of Sarah McLachlan and everybody was just like [groan]. So Kate, we know it’s difficult, we know that there was a lot of fashion in this season.
Kate: So much. Some of the best in the whole series, honestly. It gets over the embarrassing dark brown lip gloss of Season 1 and it hasn’t quite moved into, like, the cool badassery of Season 3. It’s extremely good.
Kristin: What are some of your top– if you want us to take away– if somebody’s listening to this episode somewhere in space, 50 years– [laughs] 50 years. I should’ve come up with like, 500. 500 years from now and they only get this clip and it’s gonna inform them what the best outfits from Season 2 are, what would you like to tell them?
Kate: It’s so hard because there’s so many good ones. And I know you pointed out to me Buffy running in "Becoming Part One" in that baby blue coat, and you know how I feel about Buffy and baby blue. [Jenny and Kristin laugh] You know how I feel, I feel very strongly. It is her color. So, that’s really amazing and I think that’s sort of very iconic for this season, but Drusilla? I don’t know, I mean as much as I love Cordelia and everyone else in this show, Drusilla’s outfits, especially her coat that she wears in "Bewitched, Bothered and Bewildered." Her look is just flawless, those nails? I don’t know. I mean, I know she’s a bad guy but she looks so good. And Cordelia’s sweater sets, all of them. [Jenny laughs] Just the dozen odd sweater sets that Cordelia wears in this season. And when she finally starts learning how to style her bangs, because there’s some rough moments in the beginning.
Kristin: Bangs can do that, even to the best of us. Even to the Cordelias, bangs can be tricky.
Kate: People were still very into the round brushing technique, I think, and then they settled down, which is nice.
Jenny: Thank goodness.
Kristin: I just want to say, if any of our listeners are like, you know, I don’t have any plans this weekend, I don’t know what to do, and you want to make us a photo mashup of every sweater set that Cordelia has worn in Season 2, we’d be really into that is all I’m saying.
Kate: [whispers] Oh my god.
Jenny: We invite you to do so.
Kristin: We would love that.
Kate: We would be so thrilled– there are so many. The live episode we did, there were like three different ones in one episode. [Kate and Jenny laugh] It’s incredible. And I think also from "Bewitched, Bothered and Bewildered"– that one has so much good fashion simply because there’s like 500 women in that episode. [giggles] When Buffy wears that sort-of white mesh top with the white tank top underneath it?
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Oh, yeah. [sings] Yes!
Kate: That’s a good one. That’s a good look. And shout out to Willow’s fishtail braids because they are the cutest thing she does all season. They’re so cute.
Kristin: Yeah, Willow really came into her fashion self, I think, in this season.
Kate: She does. I mean, she’s still got that kid jewelry thing and all the geometric kinda shapes and stuff like that. But I really feel like once Oz kinda comes into the picture, she gets a little bit more flair and she starts experimenting with her look a little bit more and she definitely does in Season 3, but yeah.
Kristin: Speaking of Season 3, Kate, are you excited about Season 3? Are you ready for it?
Kate: I’m so excited. There’s so much [sings] pleather! [Kristin and Jenny laugh] [sings] I can’t wait!
Kristin: Kate, where will we find you until Season 3?
Kate: Usually on the internet, that’s basically where I live. I’m going to San Diego Comic-con coming up soon, and I’m gonna post my schedule for that on Twitter, it’s just Kate Leth, pretty straightforward. And then Flame Con in August, I’m going to New York, so that’s going to be pretty fun, so yeah. And the rest of the time, internet.
Kristin: Do you think that we could hang out at Flame Con together?
Kate: Yeah, I think that that would be super good.
Kristin: Okay, awesome.
Jenny: That would be ideal.
Kristin: ‘Cause we’re– yeah.
Jenny: ‘Cause we’ll be there too? Just hanging out?
Kristin: Yeah, I think we’re going to be there too. So we’ll see you at Flame Con and also hopefully, Kate, hopefully we’ll see you at the…
Jenny: Somewhere else.
Kristin: At the mall, maybe? Will we see you, maybe?
Kate: Oh, yeah. Yeah, I guess until next time, I’ll see you at the mall?
NOTES: [Kate Leth Outro Jingle Plays] That was our friend Kate She gave you the Buffy Fashion Update.
Jenny: Thanks, Kate, for talking to us, as always.
Kristin: Yes. Kate, what a dream, we cannot wait to talk to you in Season 3.
Jenny: Seriously.
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: Are we a thruple? Or are we a family? I’m confused.
Kristin: Oh, that’s true. We are a family. Can’t you be a thruple and a family?
Jenny: Ahh! Of course you can.
Kristin: Okay, we have so much more to cover!
Jenny: You know what wants to tell you you can’t be a thruple and a family?
Kristin: Who?
Jenny: The patriarchy.
Kristin: Dammit, you’re right. And we have something special. Something special this way comes. Jenny, I think we might have a new little jingle.
Jenny: Just a teeny-tiny one.
Kristin: A teeny-tiny one but I’m excited ‘cause we talk about this in every episode. And it is what?
NOTES: [Patriarchy Jingle] The Patriarchy!
NOTES: [evil laughter]
Jenny: Yeah, you know, we just wanted to take a special moment to look back on some of our favorite little bits and bobs of the patriarchy.
Kristin: By which we mean, our least f avorite moments of the season because it was full of bullshit. [Jenny laughs] Let’s start with episode 5, where there is a demon lizard and that is where the power comes to help the boys maintain their money and they keep girls chained downstairs–
Jenny: Feed them to the demon.
Kristin: It’s just horrible and stupid and also true and we didn’t like it.
Jenny: Didn’t care for it one bit.
Kristin: I think that’s the worst– what’s bad about the patriarchal moments in Buffy the Vampire Slayer is that so many of other moments, you’re like, "well, but it’s fake, so it doesn’t have to be that scary," but this is true.
Jenny: In a manner of speaking.
Kristin: It’s true, literally true.
Jenny: In a figurative…
Kristin: It’s real.
Jenny: It’s a metaphor…
Kristin: No, just true.
Jenny: For– [laughs]. You know what else sucks?
Kristin: What else sucks?
Jenny: Ted!
Kristin: Ted. [groans]
Jenny: What a dick.
Kristin: Ted and his little lady.
Jenny: I, yeah, and his malarkey.
Kristin: His malarkey. Oh, just a horrible robot of a thing.
Jenny: You know, the 50s, ugh.
Kristin: Right? Also the 60s, and the 70s, 80s, 90s, and aughts.
Jenny: And tens.
Kristin: And teens. Yeah, just forever. Forever. We’re very mad about Ted, we’re very mad about the way that Ted manipulated Joyce. We’re very mad about the way that Ted drugged everybody. We’re very mad about the way the police handled things. We’re very mad–
Jenny: Ugh! Yeah, victim blaming–
Kristin: Yeah, victim blaming ding-dongs...
Jenny: Ding-dongs!
Kristin: Is what they all are. Goodnight, Ted, we don’t need you. Goodbye.
Jenny: Farewell. Or don’t fare– fare not well.
Kristin: I’m glad that you short circuited when you did.
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: You know who else sucked?
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: Cain, that fucking werewolf hunter!
Jenny: That guy sucked.
Kristin: With the teeth around his neck like a dumb dummy. I hated him. [Jenny laughs] Really did not care for him, the way that he spoke to Buffy like she didn’t know a thing because she was a girl.
Jenny: But then remember when she bent his gun with her bare hand?
Kristin: I remember.
Jenny: Which was another metaphor, in my opinion.
Kristin: I do remember when she bent his literal gun and also metaphorical gun, for all of us to cheer. It was bad, but Buffy helped us, as she does, say fuck you to that patriarchal nonsense.
Jenny: And you know what else sucked in that episode?
Kristin: Yeah, same episode.
Jenny: Larry. Larry before he came out. Larry after he came out, so great.
Moral of the story: come out!
Kristin: Right, right. Larry, both a victim and perpetrator of the patriarchy, I mean...
Jenny: Oh, god. It’s a vicious cycle.
Kristin: It is.
Jenny: That consumes us all.
Kristin: But Larry broke the patriarchy by coming out and feeling at one with his true self.
Jenny: Proud of you, Larry.
Kristin: Realizing that we do not have to be the things that the patriarchy tells us we have to be, we can be ourselves. Bless you, Larry. Congratulations on your coming out moment. We’re proud of you.
Jenny: I wish Larry was on the swim team because they wouldn’t then be all jerks.
Kristin: Right. The swim team, Cameron, a #1 offender. [Jenny makes barf noises] Here we go again down the path of victim blaming and nonsense. This episode is chock full of Buffy being told that she’s wearing the wrong clothes and all manner of– oof.
Jenny: No, no, no, no. "Boys have needs," Coach Carl [spit].
Kristin: [Spit] is right.
Jenny: I spit on your grave.
Kristin: [Spit] Enough times to fill the barrel with water that you will be devoured in by your own swim team. Carl. 
Jenny: Wow. [both laugh] I can’t believe I got to marry you. [Kristin laughs] Great. Well, this has been the patriarchy.
Kristin: This has been the patriarchy, touching on just a few cornerstone moments of this season. There were, of course, plenty because the patriarchy is everywhere we look, but you know what else is everywhere we look, Jenny?
Jenny: What’s that?
Kristin: Patriarchy slayage, done right here in this very podcast, done by Buffy herself, done by you, kind listener, by just listening to us and going about your business, every day. We will knock it down, one at a time.
Jenny: Hell, yeah.
Kristin: One Ted, one demon lizard, one Cain and one Cameron swim team member at a time. We will slay the patriarchy.
NOTES: [Patriarchy Jingle] The Patriarchy!
Jenny: You know what else is as omnipresent as the patriarchy?
Kristin: What is? What is, Jenny?
Jenny: A… Gaby Dunn.
Kristin: You’re right.
Jenny: That would be Gaby Dunn.
Kristin : You’re right. Everywhere you turn, there she is again.
Jenny: No escaping her.
Kristin: If you’re a regular listener of Buffering the Vampire Slayer, you know that we sometimes see a cat, a neighborhood cat. We call him Patrol Cat, he goes on patrol around the neighborhood. And recently, rumors have been a-flying about the fact that Patrol Cat may, in fact, be Gaby Dunn and Gaby Dunn may, in fact, be Patrol Cat. So we asked Gaby Dunn if she had any thoughts to wrap-up this season and to maybe let us know what she had actually been up to for the last few months.
Gaby: Hello, Kristin and Jenny. It is I, Gaby Dunn slash Patrol Cat. If you’ve been listening to all the episodes, audience, you would know that Gaby Dunn is Patrol Cat, as well as the Mayor of L.A. So what have I, your most prolific guest slash the cat that patrols your neighborhood, been up to this whole season. Well, this should come as no shock to you guys, but Patrol Cat is also a vampire slayer. But Patrol Cat only slays cat vampires and your neighborhood is actually rife with cat vampires. You guys just don’t notice it because you’re humans. And also because I’m doing an incredible job. So when I’m outside your window, what I’m really doing is keeping you safe from vampire cats. Because, yes, vampire cats can bite people and turn them into vampires. I don’t make the rules, that’s just true. Also, you guys can’t check on this lore because there’s no cat vampires and cat slayers in Buffy. I’m actually very upset with the lack of representation. So there’s no one to tell you that this is true or isn’t true. You guys should be more thankful because I’ve been keeping you alive this entire time that you’ve lived where you live. I’ve been making sure that they don’t get into your home, I’ve been making sure that they turn to dust. Whenever you guys see dust outside, you should know that that’s Patrol Cat, doing my job. So anyway, I guess all of Season 2, I’ve been just the best guest ever and also a cat patrolling your neighborhood. I mean, when do I rest? When do I have time for my own show– youtube.com/justbetweenusshow. When do I have time for my own youtube channel? Youtube.com/nofungabydunn or my Twitter @GabyDunn or my Instagram, @gabyroad, and time to patrol the neighborhood. I mean, my work is never done. ‘Kay, bye!
Kristin: Wow, Gaby. You really inspired us and so we created a little something just for you.
NOTES: [Gaby Dunn jingle] She loves being mentioned Ooh, that Gaby Dunn
Kristin: That Gaby Dunn. She sure does love being mentioned.
Jenny: And saving our lives. She loves saving our lives, day after day, apparently.
Kristin: She does. I mean, this is a big reveal and lot of information that we’ve received here. Patrol Cat is a cat vampire slayer, living in our neighborhood. What are the chances? It’s like we moved to our own Hellmouth, Jenny.
Jenny: Oh, my, god.
Kristin: And what’s really, really fun about this new news about Patrol Cat is that, additional news, Jenny and I adopted a tiny kitten.
Jenny: Who is hopefully not a vampire cat.
Kristin: No, I mean, we’ve been watching her very closely. I think we would know if she was a vampire cat.
Jenny: She’s very bitey.
Kristin: What I think is I think she’s going to be one of the Scoobies. I think she’s going to be one of Patrol Cat’s scoobies. Her name is Sam, she’s about four months old, she’s a tiny, tiny adorable baby.
Jenny: She weighs four pounds!
Kristin: She weighs four pounds and we love her so much. If you want to see her, you can look anywhere on any of our social media accounts because all we have done for the last week is post pictures of Sam.
Jenny: [laughs] Accurate.
Kristin: And Sam has not yet met Patrol Cat. Either in cat form or Gaby Dunn form.
Jenny: She did recently see her first Archibald though.
Kristin: She did see an Archibald, yes, but not Patrol Cat yet. And I think that they’re gonna form a fast friendship and I think Sam may support Patrol Cat in Patrol Cat’s vampire slayage. That’s all I’m saying.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: Now, we have so much more to cover. We have our list of some favorite moments and favorite characters from Season 2. We have Joanna Robinson, coming in hot. I think probably Joanna Robinson’s best work yet is in this podcast.
Jenny: Truly. We’ve got Brittani Nichols as well.
Kristin: Brittani Nichols is around the bend, but before we get there, we have a couple of sponsors to thank.
NOTES: [ad break music starts]
Kristin: Today’s episode is brought to you by Book of the Month. Book of the Month is a rapidly growing service with a simple goal, to make sure you love what you read. They search high and low for new books that you wouldn’t have found on your own and narrow it down to their top five every month. You choose your favorites, they ship them to your doorstep and the prices are pretty low, starting at just $10 for new hardcover releases. Usually those cost like $15 or more anywhere else. So you’re getting books that rule, that are reviewed by really brilliant people. And they come right to your doorstep every month. I used Book of the Month and I got two new books that I am reading right now. They rule and it was really exciting to have two new books arrive at my doorstep. I am a huge fan of shopping at bookstores and I love going out and picking out my own books, but I don’t always have the time to do that. And so this guarantees that I will have at least a couple of books to read every month. Book of the Month, bound to delight. Get your first book for ten dollars at bookofthemonth.com/buffering. That’s bookofthemonth.com/buffering.
Jenny: Today’s episode is also supported by RX Bar. RX Bar is a whole food protein bar made with a few simple clean ingredients which all serve a purpose. Egg whites for protein, dates to bind, nuts for texture and in the interest of full transparency all of the core ingredients are labeled right on the front of the package, no BS. They’re perfect for breakfast on the go, a snack at the office or to throw in your bag for a bike ride. Much to my delight they are also gluten free, soy free, dairy free and free of any added sugar, artificial colors and flavors preservatives or fillers. They taste like food and they feel like I’m doing something good for my body. Personally, my favorite flavor is chocolate and sea salt. It is delicious. For 25% off your first order visit rxbar.com/buffy and enter promo code buffy at checkout. That’s rxbar.com/buffy promo code buffy for 25% off your first order.
Kristin: Last but certainly not least, today’s show is also sponsored by ModCloth. ModCloth is an amazing online retailer, they have fashion that is, as they put it, as unique as you are. I kind of took them up on that challenge and checked out what they had to offer. And they talk about patterns, listen guys, their patterns, some of them are cosmic kitties, froyo, and they have a pair of leggings with sunny side up eggs. So when we’re talking about like ‘as unique as you are’ they are not messing around. Their website is awesome and really easy to use and they have so many different options for so many different people. Speaking of which, ModCloth’s exclusive line of apparel comes in a full size range. That means it starts from extra extra small and goes up to 4X. Because they believe that fashion is for every body size and shape, as do we. So you can shop now at modcloth.com and if you enter the promo cody buffy at checkout you’ll get 30% off your order of $100 or more. That’s modcloth.com promo code buffy for 30% off your order of $100 or more. I think you’d get quite a few pairs of sunny side up leggings for $100.
NOTES: [ad break music ends]
Kristin: Oh my gosh, we are back and we have so much to do together. Jenny and I are gonna tell you about our favorite characters from this season. Our favorite fun moments from this season as well. We have Brittani Nichols, Joanna Robinson. We also have you telling us about your favorite moments. We have significant losses, there is a lot to come. So Jenny, let’s start with favorite characters, who is yours?
Jenny: My favorite character in Season 2 is Cordelia.
Kristin: Ooh! Cordelia.
Jenny: She’s so great. She is a queen. She is funny. She is golden hearted when you least expect her to be. She’s growing, she’s changing.
Kristin: Aww, yeah. It’s nice.
Jenny: It is really nice.
Kristin: Yeah, it’s hard to pick. It’s really hard to pick a favorite character.
Jenny: So hard to pick.
Kristin: I mean, you’d think, based on all of the talking in this season that I too would be picking Cordelia. But when I really had to narrow it down… I mean, Cordelia, you’re my heart, you’re my love. As a matter of fact, do you have any more to say about Cordelia?
Jenny: No! She’s perfect, that’s it.
Kristin: Well, before we move onto my favorite character, then I believe we should give Cordelia her jingle as Jenny’s favorite character from Season 2.
[Cordelia Jingle plays: Cordelia, ahh I love you Cordelia, ahh You’re perfect Cordelia, ahh-ahh]
Kristin: Oh, Cordelia.
Jenny: That’s right.
Kristin: How we love you. However, my favorite character from Season 2 specifically is Drusilla.
Jenny: That is an excellent choice.
Kristin: I just, like, when I thought about it, I shuffled things around, I moved things here and there and I just kept coming up with old Drusilla, losing her mind over all the things, naming the stars all the same names. Just…
Jenny: Blindfolding her dolls.
Kristin: I mean, she just– that’s the thing is like, you never know what in the hell she’s gonna do, or how she’s gonna do it or why she’s gonna do it. She doesn’t know why she’s gonna do it and she commits to everything she does with 1000% Drusilla-ness and I just– that’s my kind of thing. I’m really into that. I love that she has dolls, I love that she has visions, I love her backstory, her history, how she was made and why she is who she is now. I love her love for Spike and their thing.
Jenny: Aww.
Kristin: I love her love for the jealousy that happens between Spike and Angel and how she like pushes that.
Jenny: [laughs] She’s so into it.
Kristin: I just– she really has knocked it out of the park so many times in Season 2 that my favorite for the season goes to Dru. And Dru, here’s a jingle for you.
[Drusilla jingle plays: Drusilla you fill-a my heart with dread And still I’m led right back to you]
Kristin: Alright, let’s do– Jenny?
Jenny: Yeah?
Kristin: Let’s do a quick rundown of our favorite moments from this season.
Jenny: Oh. My. God.
Kristin: Are you ready?
Jenny: Yes, I’m ready!
Kristin: Alright, I’m gonna start us off with episode five, Reptile Boy, Cordelia talking to much in the basement when she’s chained up with Buffy. [Jenny laughs] is a moment I love, it’s a moment I love. I love, I love, I love.
Jenny: It is so great. Oh my god, I love episode six, Halloween, because everybody– well, almost everybody. The three core scoobies get a chance to be kind of the opposite of what they are in their everyday life. Willow is wearing revealing clothing, [Kristin laughs] Buffy is a helpless maiden, and Xander is like super confident, super strategic, running the operation with his military mind.
Kristin: And Cordelia’s a cat!
Jenny: And Cordelia is Cordelia, and amazing.
Kristin: Yeah, that’s like, a big episode overall for favorites. I’m gonna jump us to episode ten, this is What’s My Line Part 2. This is Kendra and Buffy, right? Kendra and Buffy’s arc in this season, we’ve talked about it a little bit already bit. But it’s something that I hold very dear to my heart. And the end of that episode, where Buffy is telling Kendra that she can take the plane back and she doesn’t have to ride in the cargo hold and they have the exchange about being a slayer and it not being a job, it being who she is. It’s just really, really beautiful and it’s a connection that I think we see between those two characters and a connection for Buffy that we don’t see her get with anyone else that I love.
Jenny: Yeah, you know what else I love in episode ten?
Kristin: What?
Jenny: Cordelia and Xander hate-kissing in the basement!
Kristin: [laughing] Yeah.
Jenny: They hate it so much but they can’t stop!
Kristin: Yeah, and it’s pretty great.
Jenny: Do you know what I love in episode fifteen, Phases?
Kristin: What do you love?
Jenny: I love Willow, who’s not gonna take it anymore and she’s giving Oz a piece of her mind while he’s busy trying not to turn into a werewolf.
Kristin: Yeah, this is like– we talked about strong Willow up at the top of the episode and this is like another– if Willow’s climbing a ladder to her final Willow self by the end of this season. This is certainly a rung or three on that ladder–
Jenny: Yes, totally.
Kristin: Of her being like I. Am. Done. Of course, it’s unfortunate that she takes a stand and then the result is her boyfriend turning into a werewolf. But they reconcile and they love each other.
Jenny: And it’s so great.
Kristin: And it’s so great. Another great– I mean, that’s another great, great moment, series of moments, in this season is Willow and Oz together. And Oz’s lines, Oz has some incredible fucking lines throughout this season. He’s just– he’s a dream. He’s a dreamboat.
Jenny: What a babe.
Kristin: You know what else I like in this episode, Jenny?
Jenny: What’s that?
Kristin: Well, in this episode, Willow and Cordelia are at the Bronze, sitting on the couch and they’re talking about how much they hate men.
Jenny: Hooray! What a fun romp.
Kristin: I would like a little bit– I should just have a video clip of that scene on my phone so that any time I’m in a bad mood, I can just hit play, you know? And hear the two of them do their beautiful, beautiful thing. Thank you Willow, thank you Cordelia, for being perfect!
Jenny: Oh my god, speaking of men. One of my favorite things this season was in episode 20, when Xander was in a speedo. Just kidding, just kidding, just kidding!
Kristin: Wow!
Jenny: It was in that very same episode, Go Fish, when Cordelia had a moving, emotional conversation with a fish monster that she thought was Xander. Which revealed… untold depths of Cordelia’s character and sensitivity and vulnerability, yay!
Kristin: Yes, so beautiful. If you– you should go check out– on our Instagram. We regrammed an artist friend of ours who’s name is Sophie. Who drew a reimagined Cordelia with the fish monster, if that had in fact been Xander, really really sweet, really adorable, very wonderful. You should check it out. Our instagram is bufferingcast and her name is Sophie Argotsinger. Alright, obviously, you guys know from listening to our podcast that every moment is our favorite moment. So we’re really just touching on a few here, but I would definitely not be able to end this segment without talking about probably my favorite moment of the entire season, when Joyce and Spike are sitting together in the living room. I love it so much.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: It’s the most beautiful illustration of awkwardness.
Jenny: I love it.
Kristin: I could not think of two characters that I want to be alone in a quiet room uncomfortably together more than Joyce Summers and Spike. I just can’t, I just can’t, I love it so much. And that calls back another favorite moment of mine which is from episode three, School Hard, where Joyce totally wields an axe at Spike, defending Buffy and letting us know that Buffy may be the chosen one, but she’s also got some badass feminist fighting in her DNA.
Jenny: Hell yes.
Kristin: Oh my gosh, so many favorite moments. And we received so many voicemails from all of you about your favorite moments. Many of them were about the very same moment and so we’re gonna hear those in just a short while. But we wanna let you know that over on our Patreon page, we’re going to put up a handful of some of our favorite voice memos from those other episodes, because there are some incredible messages there. Some about Phases, oh, I love the message about Phases so much. There’s an incredible analysis of Buffy taking the chopstick out of her hair and what that might be alluding to. There is a very special voice message from Mey Rude about her fury at our treatment of Cordelia and Xander. So you should head on over to our Patreon page, that’s a post that’s publicly out for everybody if you wanna hear some more of you all sharing your favorite moments from this season. But don’t worry, there’ll be some in this episode too. Before we get there though, we want to have a short moment to pay our respects to those we have lost in Season 2.
NOTES: [music cue]
Kristin: So this is a big deal, this season, because we lose somebody who we care about. We lose more than one person, but I’m talking about the first death that we experience. As viewers, we have not lost a key character until we lose Jenny Calendar.
Jenny: Yeah, Jenny Calendar is the first character who we’ve really formed some kind of an emotional attachment to. And mostly, we formed that emotional attachment via Giles, right? So somebody we care about really cares about Jenny Calendar, regardless of however we’ve managed to bond with her, viewer-to-character, right?
Kristin: Absolutely.
Jenny: And it is done in a really gutting way. Like, the most emotionally wrenching possible way that they could have done it.
Kristin: And a really beautiful way? I mean, that’s a weird word to use perhaps for something that is so horrific. But it is just a gorgeous scene. That whole scene is done really beautifully. And I wanna say too, this is a really important moment for us and Buffering because it is the biggest spoiler that Jenny Owen Youngs has ever let come out of her mouth.
Jenny: The shame.
Kristin: During the live episode, the live taping of Reptile Boy. She spoiled this episode, this death, for the audience before we had gotten there. And most of the listeners knew what was going to happen, not all of them, but most of them. But what was so particularly wonderful about this spoiler was that the guest we were interviewing at the time, Brittani Nichols, did not yet know that Jenny Calendar was going to die. So we spoiled it for our very own guest and we asked–
Jenny: I’m sorry, Brittani!
Kristin: We asked Brittani to just send us a little message about how she felt about losing Jenny Calendar and maybe even a little bit about that spoiler.
Brittani: Season 2 included one of the worst things to ever happen to me. Which is the death of Ms. Calendar. Have to say, she was my favorite character. I feel like maybe the only person who was ever performing at the top of their emotional intelligence. Now if you listen to the podcast, specifically the live episodes, you might remember Jenny spoiled this moment for me. I was really hopeful, looking forward to a future with lots of Calendar, lots of Calendar plus Giles. Galender, I think would be their ship name. There probably one exists already but that’s the one that I just made up. And Jenny… [sighs] really took the wind out of my sails when she told me that she was gonna die. And what a gruesome death it was. I mean, nightmarish to this day. No one should go out like that. She didn’t deserve that.
Jenny: Well, there you have it, from the mouth of the person who taught us the meaning of the word throuple.
Kristin: It’s true, it’s true. Brittani Nichols, we love you. We are so sorry that one of our mouths spoiled that moment for you.
Jenny: It was mine.
Kristin: It was Jenny’s. And on a more serious note, Jenny Calendar, truly a very important character and a very significant loss. RIP. We also lost Kendra this season. A huge, devastating loss as well, I mean, we’ve talked about Kendra already–
Jenny: Oh, man.
Kristin: In many segments of this episode and in so many other episodes. But you know, Kendra was something really special to Buffy and her loss was also so tragic. That she handed Buffy Mr. Pointy to help Buffy in her fight as sort of the last thing that they exchanged, was that? Like, Kendra gave her this very important piece of her fight. And so for Buffy to come back and find Kendra– Kendra had lost this battle between her and Drusilla was just devastating.
Jenny: Yeah, and we’re seeing Buffy lose the only person really who has a real sense of what Buffy’s life really is.
Kristin: Yeah, the only person, really, the only p  erson that she has met to date that can understand without having a larger conversation. And that’s so powerful and important to all of us in so many different ways, having those people who you know get it, that you do not have to explain it to. So that is a huge loss for Buffy and by proximity too a huge loss for the whole scooby gang. Everybody that knows and works with Buffy and knew Kendra. Really, really sad.
Jenny: It also raises the stakes, no pun intended, because we’ve seen people die and we’ve seen vampires die. But we haven’t seen a vampire slayer die before.
Kristin: Yes, solid point. Solid point.
Jenny: Which is a lot.
Kristin: I mean, technically we have seen Buffy die before, but.
Jenny: Well, we haven’t seen a vampire slayer die and not immediately spring back to life.
Kristin: Yes. I mean, a big thing that I think we learned this season is that we are all very vulnerable and that it is important to fight evil. But that in fighting evil, we do lose some along the way. And that’s hard, that’s hard but that’s what this show does, it just fucking helps us deal with hard shit in our real lives. We also lose Angel. We lose Angel in the very last episode.
Jenny: Well, we lose Angel and then we lose him again.
Kristin: Yes, that’s true. We lose– right. We lose Angel and then we get Angel back for just one brief, shining moment, and then we lose Angel again. So there are many other smaller characters who we have lost this season. Many vampires we have lost. And we pay our respects to all of those who we have lost along the way.
Jenny: May they rest in peace.
Kristin: May they rest in peace. [music cue]
Kristin: Now, we’ve talked about a lot of things. We’ve talked about our favorite moments, our favorite characters. We’ve heard from Brittani Nichols, we’ve heard from Gaby Dunn, we have talked to Kate Leth. And we’re rounding the bend here to the final episode of the season in our recap here. And we just did a full episode on that episode. But so many of you had so much to say about your feelings and that final episode, that we just wanna take a special little moment–
Jenny: Whew!
Kristin: For Becoming Part 2, really Becoming. We’ll just call it one unit. I want to start by reading an email. I know, this isn’t a mailbag, what are you doing, Kristin? You’re crazy. [Jenny laughs] But I just wanna share this email because I think it will really segue very nicely into some other fun things. So Jana– I think that’s how we pronounce your name, I hope it is, Jana.
Jana wrote in: "Dear Kristin and Jenny, in your commentary for Becoming Part 2, you discussed the final scene in which Buffy lurks Angel-style in the bushes and then heads for the bus out of town. You remarked on her enormous pants. Pants?! My friends, I am pretty confident she is wearing her shame overalls. I’m not currently rewatching the series so I don’t know whether these overalls have truly arrived on the scene yet, [Jenny laughs] but I recall them very clearly as the clothes she puts on when she is at her absolute lowest, most disempowered, closest to giving up. The overalls are capital-v Very, capital-s Significant. They are the garment polar opposite of Buffy putting on her leather fighting pants. Love the podcast, thanks for doing it."
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: [laughs] I laughed for five hours after reading this email. "Pants!?" Pants, just so you understand visually in the email, it has its own line, it’s spaced out from the paragraph above and below it with like 42 question marks and exclamation points.
Jenny: Perfect.
Kristin: So thank you so much for that note and correction, you are right, they are not pants they are overalls. And when we put out our call to ask people for their favorite moments of Season 2, we also got a response from somebody who we love very dearly on this podcast.
Jenny: Oh, yes.
Kristin: Joanna Robinson. And you may remember Joanna Robinson from her incredible guest spot on Innocence. Joanna does about 47 other podcasts, you might wanna know about Storm of Spoilers and Cast of Kings.
Jenny: Very important right now!
Kristin: Since Game of Thrones has started again, you should probably be listening Joanna talk about that shit ‘cause she rules! But Joanna had some stuff to say about this finale. Her favorite moment of Season 2 is in this finale and she also talks about the overalls, so we thought what a great transition.
Joanna: Hi there, it is Joanna Robinson here. And I am having a lot of trouble plucking one single solitary moment from Season 2 to consider sort of my favorite or the best. Because I consider this entire season to be the best season of television, no joke, that has ever graced our screens. So that being said, I guess I will go with the end of Becoming Part 2, the finale. Even though you guys just talked about it on your podcast, I just can’t think of anything better or stronger to encapsulate everything, all the ups and downs of Buffy Season 2. You’ve got the dissolution of the family unit between Joyce and Buffy, you’ve got Spike, ascendant, hitting the road. You’ve got Angel gone, is he ever coming back? Spoiler alert, he has his own spinoff so yes, but you know, as a kid, I didn't know that. You’ve got the scoobies who are triumphant but worried. And then you’ve got the Sarah McLachlan of it all. Every time I hear that song, every time I hear Sarah croon [sings] "the winter is cold, and bitter"– it makes me cry, I can’t handle it. And one thing I wanted to add is because your lovely friend, Kate Leth, did not do a fashion update for the Becoming Part 2 finale, I noticed that you guys kind of missed that Buffy is not in fact wearing Jenko's or enormous jeans in that last scene. She’s actually wearing overalls, which I have always called the overalls of sadness. So overalls of sadness, Sarah McLachlan, a bus leaving Sunnydale, boom. Everything, Season 2, the best, thanks guys, bye.
Jenny: The overalls of sadness!
Kristin: The overalls of sadness, the shame overalls, the overalls have been given so many a name. Joanna Robinson, what a dream. Little did we know that not only would we get that wonderment but that we would also get to hear Joanna sing a little bit of that Sarah McLachlan song.
Jenny: Yeah, you thought you were safe from Sarah McLachlan in this episode, wrong!
Kristin: Nope! You are never safe. Buffering the Vampire Slayer: you are
never safe. [both laugh] In parentheticals: from Sarah Mclachlan.
Jenny: All accurate.
Kristin: Now Joanna obviously talked about this finale. It’s a big moment. And what’s really fun is that we asked so many of you to send in your favorite moments to us, and we were overwhelmed by the response. So many of you sent us voice memos. It was so rad to listen to them all. And so we couldn’t think of any better way to round out this wrap-up episode than by sharing some of your wonderful voices. The people who make this podcast possible, the people who share our love for Buffy the Vampire Slayer. So here are some messages from all of you. We’re gonna start with Sarah S.
Sarah: My favorite part of Season 2 straight up has to be when Buffy kills Angel. Right before I started watching Buffy, which wasn't until college, I’d had this incredible summer romance with this guy and then he completely turned evil on me and I just related so much to what Buffy went through in this season. And seeing her have the strength to kill Angel made me realize that I had the strength to kind of kill off these positive memories I had of this person and move on with my life and save the fucking world. And that’s just the greatest thing Buffy’s done for me and one of the reasons why I love Season 2 so much.
[Yeti?]: Hi I’m [Yeti?] and I wanted to take a moment to talk about my favorite moment from Season 2 of Buffy. It’s definitely the end of Becoming Part 2, because I was coming out of the closet at the time that I found Buffy, especially Season 2. And I had lost a lot of my friends in doing so and felt really alienated from my family. And I was going to a catholic school at the time, so most of my classmates were not receptive to the idea, including most of the adults in the school. And I really felt isolated, I really felt like I had nothing left, like I had no one and nothing to talk to or help deal with this. And I really felt like Buffy did at the end of Season 2, really the moment where he’s saying "no friends, no weapons, nothing left, what’s left when all that’s gone?" Her statement of "me" was really inspirational to me and really helped me take a good hard look at everything that I had and helped me get through being sort of isolated for the next few years. So yeah, that would definitely count as my favorite moment from Season 2.
Rhiannon: Hi scoobies, my name’s Rhiannon. I’ve been watching Buffy the Vampire Slayer since I think I was about seven years old. And it started airing Season 3 in the UK, I think the first episode I saw was Helpless. I was absolutely terrified but I still made my mum go out and buy the VHS tapes ‘cause I was desperate to see more of this incredible girl on screen. Saddest moment would have to be Angel’s death, obviously. Don’t even have to watch the episode anymore, I just have to hear the first three notes on the piano for "Close your eyes" and I’m gone like a little baby. And the moment that meant most me for my growing up experience would have to be when Buffy grabs that sword and just says "me." I was like, so blown back. I had never seen a girl other than maybe Xena get that much agency on screen before. And it just completely changed the way I viewed myself and other girls. I just– I wanted to be her so bad, and it meant so much to me.
Gracie: Hi Kristin and Jenny, this is Gracie from Brooklyn, New York. I love the podcast so much. I love the end of Season 2 episodes especially. Season 2 is an amazing season. I think– I remember when I first watched Innocence I was a sobbing mess on the floor and my sister had to console me for awhile before we could keep watching. But really, my favorite moment of this season is when Buffy just catches the sword and says "me." It never fails to make me cry and it’s making me cry a little bit right now because… [sighs] sometimes life can get overwhelming. And you’re not fighting your demon ex boyfriend every day, but sometimes it feels like you’re all you have left. And in that moment, Buffy reminded us that it’s not only okay that you’re all you have left but it’s empowering and you can face it. [tearing up] And I just love it and I love Buffy and I didn’t mean to get so emotional but I can’t wait for Season 3. Thanks, guys.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: No!
Jenny: I know!
Kristin: Grace! Gracie!
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: From Brooklyn, [upset noise]
Jenny: We feel you.
Kristin: Well, we thought there was gonna be a Season 3 but [struggles] we died. Oooohh, it was so amazing to hear from all of you, all of you. And a reminder that in the next couple of days, we will be putting up all of the other voice memos on Patreon so you can hear some of the other favorite moments outside of this episode. But wow, thank you, and Gracie, the moment I see you– I know I’ll see you someday. Maybe at Flame Con in August, I don’t know. But you’re gonna get a pretty big hug, so be warned.
Jenny: Thank you all for an amazing Season 2.
Kristin: Yes, thank you, this has been an incredible season. Just– like, more and more of you keep joining this family and we are so excited. We really could have never imagined the beautiful family that was going to come of this work and we love it and we love you and we cannot wait to begin Season 3 and to just go on this entire journey with you together.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: You, Jenny, me, and Gracie. From Brooklyn. [both laugh]
Jenny: And Sam!
Kristin: And Sam the cat and everybody else!
Jenny: Wow. Well, I’m Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: You sure are.
Jenny: And I’m full of feelings! [Kristin laughs] And when I’m not making this podcast, I’m writing songs and recording them and you can hear some of them at jennyowenyoungs.com/buffering where I have made you a little playlist of my non-Buffy songs. You can also give me a holler on Twitter @jennyowenyoungs.
Kristin: And I am Kristin Russo, you can find me on the internet in various places, @kristinnoeline, k-r-i-s-t-i-n-n-o-e-l-i-n-e. You can also learn more about the work that I do outside of this podcast with LGBTQ young people and their families over at everyoneisgay.com or mykidisgay.com.
Jenny: Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on Twitter, Facebook and [stretches it out] Instagram! [Kristin laughs] At Bufferingcast and you can always email us at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin: You can and something really exciting happened in the last week, which is that in the last week– not only do we love you because we’re all here and everybody has feelings. But Buffering the Vampire Slayer broke one million downloads last week!
Jenny: Whaaaaaat?
Kristin: What!
Jenny: That’s a large number.
Kristin: That is a large number, many zeros. Six zeros in fact, in that number. So thank you to all of you who are listening to this and sharing it with your friends and your loved ones. We want to do something celebratory– oh my god, Patrol Cat! [Jenny gasps] Oh my god, Patrol Cat! Patrol Cat went by for the wrap up, Jenny. [through gritted teeth] Patrol Cat went by! He’s gone now, that’s it, you missed it. It was– I literally saw his butt and tail as it went by the window.
Jenny: Aww, he knew it was the finale.
Kristin: He did, he was like "nobody’s gonna get through this episode without Patrol Cat."
Jenny: Gaby!
Kristin: [laughs] He might be after a vampire. Anyhow, one million downloads means that we have a celebration in store. And so Jenny and I are planning a fun internet party of sorts for this August. So follow us on any social media that you want. Whatever you use, Facebook, Instagram, you know, Jenny just told you all of the ways you can follow us so that when we do that celebration, you will know about it. It should be fun and details to come.
Jenny: Also, so many of you have taken our listener survey and we are very grateful. Thank you so much for sharing your thoughts on what we’ve done so far and what we might be able to do in the future. You rule. Three of you were randomly selected to win t-shirts and you’ve already been notified by email but congratulations, via the sound of my voice, to Camilla, Meredith and Catrine whose names I hope I’m saying right. You three rule. Everybody who took the survey rules. Thank you so much.
Kristin: Yes, thank you so much! A quick reminder that we will be doing our Buffy Watch of Band Candy on July 30th for all of our patrons no matter what level you are a patron at. We will be together in glory as we watch that episode which is just a joy. We will also be in New York City August 19th and 20th at Flame Con, so if you are there, please come and see us, give us a high five, tell us your favorite characters of Buffy the Vampire Slayer. It’s gonna be a blast.
Jenny: Also, oh. My. Gosh. As of Friday July 14th, which happened, it’s in the past, Buffering the Vampire Slayer Songs from Season 2 is now available in the world. You can get the CD from our website. You can find the music digitally on itunes, spotify, amazon, google play and newly bandcamp at bufferingthevampireslayer.bandcamp.com.
Kristin: Some people say Reptile Boy is the song of the summer so…
Jenny: Who said that?
Kristin: [giggles] Somebody.
Jenny: You said that.
Kristin: No, somebody on twitter said it, I retweeted it. [laughs]
Jenny: Aww, that is so nice. Well, you can find out which song you think is the song of the summer by checking out our album, wherever it is sold.
Kristin: [laughs] Yes, and speaking of summer, Jenny and I are going to be taking a few weeks off before we start Season 3. Many of you have been asking but when– some of you have said, "can’t wait till next week when Season 3 starts" and we’re like– [both doing exaggerated villain laughing] Jenny and I will be taking a handful of weeks off. We are coming back hot for Season 3, episode one, on September 6th. And in that interim we will be going to FlameCon, we will be doing a Buffy Watch, we will be celebrating a million downloads with you. We will also be putting up a brand new website which is gonna be exciting and fun. So trust us, we won’t actually be taking time off, but we will see you all for Season 3 on September 6th and we cannot wait.
Jenny: Oh my god so exciting [sighs] Till… next season
Kristin: [gasps]
Both Jenny and Kristin: Awwooooooooooooooooo
Kristin: Normally, this is where a song would go but since it’s a wrap up we don’t have a song. So instead, here’s Spike’s jingle just for fun [Jenny laughs] [Spike’s jingle plays] Spike, I love you Spike, so dreamy Spike, your trench coat Spike, I love you Spike, your black nails Spike, peroxide
Kristin: Thank you again to LeVar Burton Reads, the new podcast where LeVar is picking his favorite short stories and reading them to us. Subscribe to LeVar Burton Reads in Stitcher, Apple Podcasts, or wherever you listen.