Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 5.05: No Place Like Home
Jenny: Today's episode is supported by Mack Weldon. One of the great truths of human existence as we know it is that, at least some of the time, you have to ensconce your torso in something. And if you're gonna ensconce your torso in something, why not make sure it's the softest something available? Wearing a Mack Weldon t-shirt is like wrapping yourself in a dream. I can't recommend them enough. For 20% off your first order, visit MackWeldon.com and enter promo code "buffy."
Kristin: Today's episode is brought to you by Buffy. The comforter, that is. Buffy makes bedding that is earth-friendly and cruelty free. Their latest product, The Breeze, is a comforter made entirely from 100% eucalyptus fiber to regulate temperature and keep you cool and comfortable all night long. Also, Buffy offers a free trial, so if you don't love it, you return it at no cost. For $20 off your Buffy comforter, visit buffy.co and enter code "buffering." That's Buffy.co and enter code "buffering" for $20 off.
NOTES: [CHIME]
Jenny: Well, hello!
Kristin: Oh, hi!
Jenny: Hey!
Kristin: How's it going? Here we are, in yet another intro, Jenny. It's a big one.
Jenny: It truly is. And we can't be stopped. We will introduce every single freaking episode, whether you like it or not. [Kristin laughs] If you missed it, we are having our third annual prom in Brooklyn, New York, and we are making it a two-night affair this time around.
Kristin: Yeah!
Jenny: On Friday, April 17th, we'll be doing a live taping of I Was Made to Love You. And on Saturday, April 18th, we will be dancing the night away, decked out in our prom and cosplay best, to our favorite hits from the late 90s and live music by yours truly, plus special guests.
Kristin: Yes. We sold out of all of our VIP level tickets to our patrons. We also sold through the entire first round of the bundled tickets on Patreon in less than two hours, all those tickets went. So we added some more bundles for our patrons that are now no more. So the tickets that have been released today are for you, the public, everyone. You can head on over to bufferingthevampireslayer.com/prom for all of your ticketing needs. Those tickets are now being sold individually, so you can get one ticket for the taping, you can get one ticket for prom. Or if they are still there, you can get one ticket for each. But the bundles are no more, those all went to our very, very hungry for prom patrons. [laughs] Lastly, for prom, we're gonna be hosting both events at the Bell House, which is a gorgeous, gorgeous, gorgeous space in Brooklyn and we are so excited. Speaking of gorgeous things, Jenny.
Jenny: Mmm, yes?
Kristin: We have—
Jenny: Anya.
Kristin: Uh, yes, Anya is gorgeous, that is correct. But in addition to Anya, we have so many gorgeous new items in our store, in our US store, in anticipation of the holidays.
Jenny: Yes, yes, yes.
Kristin: We have two new shirts out today. They're both designed by John-Allison Weiss. One is a Sleepaway Witch Camp t-shirt. Honestly, I think it might be my favorite t-shirt of all—like, I think it might be my favorite t-shirt we've ever made. And we—
Jenny: It's beautiful.
Kristin: It's so beautiful and we're just really excited, so we put this Sleepaway Witch Camp t-shirt—that, by the way, says in quotes underneath the Sleepaway
Witch Camp logo: "move a vending machine." It's pretty great.
Jenny: Every camp needs a motto.
Kristin: Oh my god. And we put it up in two color combinations for you, there's a gray with black ink, there's a maroon with sort of orangey ink. Really cool stuff. We also have a freaking new sweatshirt. It's a crewneck sweatshirt by popular demand. It says "Tis the season, whatever that means."
Jenny: "Whatever that means!"
Kristin: [laughs] It has a stake and Faith's knife and snowflakes. It's gorgeous, it's so exciting. It really is the season. Whatever that means.
Jenny: Faith will try to tell you it's crappy, but it's the opposite of crappy. [Kristin laughs] It's… magnificent. We also have some really fun Smash the Demon Lizard Patriarchy stuff, including a new limited edition Demon Lizard tee that is black with gold foil print. So festive! Also, for the Jennys of the world, Jennys unite, a beautiful green speckled diner mug. Ahhh! And also. Are you ready? A holiday ornament. A beautiful, shiny, green ball… [Kristin laughs] featuring the Smash the Demon Lizard Patriarchy logo. It is so lovely to look upon, lovely to hold. If you break it, consider it sold. Hang it on the tree and party with me.
Kristin: [laughing] Wow.
Jenny: This is a poem from your friend, Jenny.
Kristin: I really, really, really hope that somebody out there sends us a photo [Jenny laughs] where they're wearing their Smash the Demon Lizard Patriarchy shirt, sipping their coffee out of a Smash the Demon Lizard Patriarchy mug, while sitting by their tree decorated with their Smash the Demon Lizard Patriarchy bauble.
Jenny: To really nail that image, I think they're gonna have to buy, like, a hundred of the ornament—
Kristin: That's true, decorate the whole tree—
Jenny: And it needs to be the only thing on the tree. [laughs]
Kristin: Oh my god. Oh my god, yes. Wow.
Jenny: That'll be me, actually. I'll be doing that, so.
Kristin: [laughs] Listen, one other new thing is coming your way in this episode. Because—I'm not gonna tell you what it's for, but Jenny, you made a new jingle for us this week, didn't you?
Jenny: It's my finest work.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: It's my greatest accomplishment.
Kristin: It truly is, I think.
Jenny: I put all of my heart and all of my soul and all of my brain and all of my many, many dollar bills into it.
Kristin: Ha-ha-ha!
Jenny: All my resources.
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: For something I truly believe in.
Kristin: So...just like, get on into the episode in a few minutes and enjoy that. And this is a reminder that all of our jingles are available the moment that they release for our patrons that are at the $5 level or higher. They also get all the music that comes at the end of the episode when it releases. A lot of the jingles, you can also—if you're not a patron of ours—a lot of them, you can go to the Jingles page and some of them are available for purchase. Some of 'em—one of 'em—is available for free. The Patriarchy jingle.
Jenny: Yeah, as you so aptly put it on the page, hasn't it cost us all enough already?
Kristin: [laughs] I got jokes.
Jenny: [laughs] Okay, so. Hard shift from economy to sex—okay. [both laugh] Hard shift from that discussion to everyone's favorite four-category polling activity on a bi-weekly basis, the Sexual Tension Awards! Here. Are. Some. Results! From the last episode, Out of my Mind. With a pathetic 4% of the vote— [both laugh] in last place, we have Spike and the doctor. Apparently—apparently Time Winter and James Marsters don't have the kind of chemistry [Kristin laughs] that you need to seriously get in the running for this competition.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Then, in a turn no one saw coming, in third place for probably the only time that this has happened—
Kristin: It's true.
Jenny: That they've been in a nomination slot. Willow and Tara have just 13% of the vote. New era.
Kristin: Yeah, I mean, you know. Tara needs to up her palm-reading game. Maybe she could get some more percentage points.
Jenny: Oh, true. True. [both laugh] Then in second place, we have a pairing that I thought might do a little bit better than this. With 17% of the vote, we've got Spike… and the blood of the Slayer.
Kristin: Mm-hmm. I thought it would do good, but I knew that this one was gonna take the cake.
Jenny: Well, yes. How could this not take the cake? The entree, the wine, and everything else. The tablecloth. [Kristin laughs] The cat who, like, hangs out in the kitchen and chases mice. In first place, with a tidal wave of 66% of the vote, we have Spike and Dream Buffy.
Kristin: Only 3% away from 69%. What a sad, sad story.
Jenny: [laughing] Oh! Opportunity missed.
Kristin: [laughs] Well, those are your results for Episode 4 of Season 5 Sexual Tension Awards. Just a couple more quick things before we get into today's episode. I wanna let you know that in addition to those jingles I was talking about that you get on Patreon, there's a lot of other stuff that goes on. You all voted and on December 21, we will be doing a Buffy Watch of Fool For Love. Which is gonna be a lot of fun, I think, because it'll be after we do our live taping in San Francisco, so we're gonna have a lot to discuss and unpack.
Jenny: Oh, yes.
Kristin: However, I put Scream 2 on the list because I desperately wanted to watch it with all of you. And it almost won, so I've convinced Jenny to do another [Jenny laughs] Buffy Watch on January 11—
Jenny: This is like…
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: The most Kristin move of all time. [laughs]
Kristin: I was like, "but I wanna—!" [laughs] And Jenny was like—
Jenny: But what about the thing I wanna watch? And you're like, "it's not enough for me to just watch it by myself or with friends or with my cats."
Kristin: No.
Jenny: Everyone must watch it, we must enjoy it together, we must commune—
Kristin: Yes, it was important.
Jenny: Around the sacred altar of Scream 2.
Kristin: [laughs] So January 11, we'll be watching Scream 2. And then, Jenny, you're gonna be doing something fun on the 22nd of February, aren't ya?
Jenny: That's right, it's time for another Jenny Owen-Youngs sings the Buffering the Vampire Slayer songbook in usually the key of beautiful C-major but occasionally some other not-too-far-away from the key of C-major keys… live. A very special even— [laughs] I'm trying—try and run out of concert-related lingo. [Kristin laughs] And I don't even know if I finished the thought, but basically, I'm playing a streaming concert for our beautiful patrons. I'll be playing some Buffering the Vampire Slayer songs. It's gonna be a hoot, it's gonna be a holler. Please join me, February 22. Yes! That's 2/22/20.
Kristin: Yeah, actually, the dates for all those things are kind of weird. 12/21, 1/11 and 2/22. It's like, almost a bunch of 1s and 0s. Are we resurrecting Adam with these three livestreaming events? That's my question.
Jenny: Mommy…
Kristin: [laughs] And if you're wondering how you can join in on all of this, plus the holiday gift exchange, that is happening right now!
Jenny: Oh my god!
Kristin: That's right. Jenny and I get in on it too, somebody gets matched with Jenny, somebody gets matched with me. And all of our Scoobies who are in that Facebook group and want to join and we all exchange gifts. It's so much fricking fun! So you can find out about all of this by going to bufferingthevampireslayer.com, just click on Patreon. All of the things we just talked about, except for the jingles, go to every level. So you can give at any level for those things. The jingles and the music go to $5 and higher. Also, $10 level, you get 20% off merch and also a mailbag coming your way in literally two days. Ha! Okay.
Jenny: That's 20% off Christmas balls. [Kristin starts laughing] That's 20% off speckled diner mugs. That's 20% off gold foil t-shirts. That's 20—
Kristin: If I had a cane—like, if I had one of those loopy canes, I would literally drag you off the stage right now.
Jenny: That would be a long-ass—that would be a 3,000-mile long cane. [both laugh] From New York to LA.
Kristin: Before I drag you off the stage, Jenny, I wanna say—I wanna say two things. One, we'll get to in a second. But the first is that Paste Magazine, just a few days ago, released a list of the top 30 podcasts—not of 2019, but of the decade! And they named Buffering the Vampire Slayer as one of those 30 podcasts, the top of the decade. And I just wanted to, like, give a special thanks to Paste. And maybe even more so than that, a special thanks to all of you, because quite literally this is the reason why we're here and doing the work and we love our community. And it's just amazing, right? Jenny and I were like, whaaat?! [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah, it's totally bananas. It is mind-boggling. The brain reels upon the rod, as I always say.
Kristin: You're really going for it today in this intro, Jenny. [Jenny laughs] I'll tell you what. Alright, I'm gonna take Jenny's voice from her like Ursula took from Ariel.
Jenny: O… kay!
Kristin: Because it's time! [laughs] For Spooky News.
NOTES: [SPOOKY NEWS jingle plays] Spooky news!
Kristin: Jenny, guess what I got for you today?
Jenny: Is it a story about some skeletons?
Kristin: It's not. It's about a bat, though a bat does have a skeleton.
Jenny: [gasps and starts coughing] [Kristin laughs] Wow, I got so excited I almost breathed my coffee into my lungs. A bat?!
Kristin: A bat!
Jenny: What kind of bat?!
Kristin: So this is a story from May of this year. An 86-year-old man… picked up his iPad—
Jenny: I thought you were gonna say an 86-year-old bat.
Kristin: [laughs] Sorry, yeah, that was an unfortunate lead-in. No, I don't think bats can live that long, unless they're Dracula. But an 86-year-old man picked up his iPad. Jenny, he used his iPad for an hour, an entire hour. At about the hour mark, a fucking bat popped its fucking head out of the iPad case and bit him!
NOTES: [laughs]
Jenny: [laughing] Oh my god!
Kristin: So! This happened in New Hampshire. And actually, the guy got rabies. But he got treated for it, he's okay—
Jenny: Holy shit!
Kristin: I know! The bat's not okay, but the guy is okay. [laughs]
Jenny: Okay, he's gonna be okay—I didn't even know you could still get rabies. I thought… that was done.
Kristin: Yeah. So like, watch out!
Jenny: Damn!
Kristin: Apparently, bat—they have no idea how the bat got in the iPad, so.
NOTES: [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah, always check your iPad ca—I'm also just trying to envision what the hell kind of iPad ca—how big is this bat? We need more details.
Kristin: Okay, I'll try. I'll try to dig some more up for you, Jenny.
Jenny: Thank you.
Kristin: That, in the meantime, has been your Spooky News.
NOTES: [SPOOKY NEWS jingle plays] Spooky news!
Jenny: Also, okay. There's still a handful of tickets available for our San Francisco show on December 6. The tickets are on our website. No bats allowed, unfortunately.
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah.
Jenny: But if you're not a bat, please grab a ticket and come.
Kristin: It's true. I just have a really tiny thing that I wanna say. I have a sweatshirt up in my personal store. It says Everyone is Gay on it and the reason I'm telling you this is because it's not a sweatshirt that I sell anymore. I just released it for the holidays, and today, November 13, is the very last day that you can grab this sweatshirt, until at least next year but who knows when I'll bring it back? So if you want that, you can go to my store, kristinnoeline.com, just click on Shop. I'm in Hello Merch so if you wanna pick up all your holiday goods and throw the Everyone is Gay sweatshirt in the bin too, you can do that. But literally, today. After today, no more.
Jenny: Also, holy shit. It's a really big week for me, if you don't mind. My EP, Night Shift, is coming out on Friday! That's in two days, if you're listening to this on the day it comes out.
Kristin: Holy shit.
Jenny: And you can still snag it via preorder on my website at jennyowenyoungs.com. I ship out the preorders directly. They'll be up until… that page will be up until the 15th, and then after that, you'll be able to get the EP and all of the associated goods, merch, illustrated lyric book, et cetera, over in my Hello Merch store. And if you order an EIG sweatshirt and a copy of my EP, you can combine the shipping, and isn't that nice?
Kristin: Wow. It'll be like a Russo-Youngs-Buffering family affair.
Jenny: Correct.
Kristin: In your shopping cart. Jenny—
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: Jenny, also, I just had this thought. I would imagine if people preorder your EP in the next couple days before you are not shipping the orders anymore, the odds of them randomly getting a package that also contains a small business card with you dressed as a unicorn— [Jenny starts laughing] is higher. Is that correct?
Jenny: Yes. Any and all preorders received and shipped by me… between now, November 13, and Friday November 15, will include a tiny business card of my unicorn photograph. You're welcome.
Kristin: It's not a big deal, I just surprised Jenny by sending her 100 business cards that no of her personal information on them whatsoever. It's just her—
Jenny: Yeah, zero purpose of any kind, other than just to spread the word about my unicorn onesie. [laughs]
Kristin: So get on over there. We've given you a lot to do! 'Tis the season! And we know what that means, don't we?
NOTES: [Buffering the Vampire Slayer theme plays]
Jenny: Hello and welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast where we are watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, one by one, spoiler free. I'm Jenny Owen-Youngs.
Kristin: And I'm Kristin Russo and this week, we are talking about Season 5, Episode 5, there's no place like home, there's no place like home, there's no place like home. Except the title's just, No Place Like Home. Stay tuned at the end of this podcast every week for an original song written by Jenny, recapping the Buffy episode we are discussing. And if you haven't yet started listening to our Angel podcast, Angel On Top, it's hosted by Brittany Ashley and Laura Zak. And you really should be listening to it, in my opinion.
Jenny: And in my opinion. No Place Like Home was written by Doug Petrie, directed by David Solomon and originally aired on October 24, 2000.
Kristin: This is the one where Buffy learns more about Dawn after she discovers a mysterious orb linked to a group of monks being pursued by an incredibly powerful force. [laughs] That's…
Jenny: Whoa…
Kristin: The IMDB description. This is the one where we learn that Dawn is the motherfucking Key.
Jenny: Yes. We. Do.
Kristin: So right out of the gates, Jenny, I wanna know why this one monk of the three does his hair by putting an actual bowl over his head and cutting it. You know what I mean? You know what I'm talking about, the blond monk?
Jenny: I mean, it's traditional monk styling. [Kristin laughs] Gotta keep the hair out of your eyes so you can, you know, genuflect and intone.
Kristin: Sure. Sure, sure, sure.
Jenny: In an unencumbered fashion. I wanna know if the monks are subletting this place from Angel. Because there are candles everywhere. 
Kristin: [laughs] Well, candles make a lot more sense for monks than they do for ensouled or not-souled vampires.
Jenny: Yeah, but like, how many people in Sunnydale you think have a candle collection that big? That extensive?
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah. Only one.
Jenny: I think Angel left them behind when he relocated.
Kristin: [laughs] So the monks are like—what is this, two months ago? And they're forming the Key. Right, you know, they're—everybody on the set of Buffy the Vampire Slayer is getting ready for a new season two months ago. And two months ago, these monks were sitting in this room, trying to protect their Key—
Jenny: Yes. Chanting intensifies, while something bangs away at a barred door during this little ceremony that they're doing.
Kristin: And then we cut, to Buffy fighting a vampire, as she does. We learn—
Jenny: Yeah, it's—it was just Halloween in real life, and it's about to be Halloween in the timeline of the—just when this episode was airing. Buffy is definitely fighting a vampire who's trick-or-treating as Stone Cold Steve Austin. [Kristin laughs] And she's wearing a fluffy, fluffy fur coat.
Kristin: She is, it's so fluffy. It's so unlike every other leather coat we've ever seen her in. So maybe she's a little festive for the season as well.
Jenny: Ooh!
Kristin: We also learn that she always wanted piano lessons. One of her quips is, you know, "well, I always wanted piano lessons." And I just thought, well, that would be nice. You know? If Joyce and—and husband—ex-husband of Joyce had given Buffy some piano lessons, like, that would have been—
Jenny: Well, she was so busy with ice skating.
Kristin: That's true, she did love those Ice Capades. And the movies. Wow, she really does love ice skating, doesn't she?
Jenny: Yeah, it's a whole thing. And those lessons aren't cheap either, I imagine.
Kristin: It's true. And this is—like, I know this is just a quip and I know I'm just having a good time with it. [Jenny laughs] But it also kind of ties into one of the bigger themes of the episode, which is that Dawn is getting—and the season, really, to date. That Dawn is getting all of these fun bonding things with Joyce. She's getting to be a little kid, she's getting to enjoy stuff. Meanwhile, Buffy is—instead of playing her piano solo at the recital, she is killing vampires in an alleyway. She did not get the full childhood that she wished that she could have gotten.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: If she had, perhaps she would have gone to the rave last night that was at this factory. [laughs]
Jenny: Yes, but alas, the rave is no longer here. That was a rave of yesterday. And this is an abandoned building of now. And—
Kristin: Yeah, so—
Jenny: [laughs] This security guard, uh, doesn't understand this generation of Buffys and tells her "don't forget your glowing orb" as she leaves.
Kristin: Did you ever go to a rave, Jenny?
Jenny: Oh my god, no!
Kristin: [laughs] I mean, I did.
Jenny: No, I know, but if you had asked me as a teenager if I had ever gone to a rave, I would have answered like, [dejectedly] "no… "
Kristin: [laughs] "No one ever invited me to a rave."
Jenny: "What's a rave like?"
Kristin: I went to a rave but it was just once. And I'm not sure—like, it was called—it was a rave, but it doesn't seem as rave-y as some of the raves I've heard about now. You know, people who also went to raves regularly. I'm like, I don't—I wasn't out until 8 in the morning at my rave, so it feels like maybe I didn't really, fully—
Jenny: You weren't doing it right!
Kristin: Right, exactly. It was one rave, it was my first one. I went, there were glow sticks. And some other stuff, and I left at a reasonable, you know, 2, 3, 4 AM hour.
Jenny: They at least made the bare minimum for qualification.
Kristin: I did, I got to check it off on my list, you know? [Jenny chuckles] So after she gets handed this glow ball, which we learn later in the episode is the Dagon Sphere.
Jenny: Hell yeah.
Kristin: Not to be confused with the—I'm sorry, Jenny, but the Orb of fucking Thesulah and the fucking Dagon Sphere, like—
Jenny: First cousins.
Kristin: You put those two orbs next to each other—
Jenny: They are first cousin glowing orbs.
Kristin: [laughs] So we cut to the credits. So Jenny, something I know about you is that you are a big fan of breakfast food. You love to make pancakes, you love to make all manor of wonderful breakfasts. So I just—
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: I thought that this was a great-looking French toast, but I feel like you're the one to really assess it.
Jenny: So. I was so full of rage, watching this scene—
Kristin: [laughing] Oh no!
Jenny: That I completely failed to take appropriate notice of the French toast. And for that, I am sorry.
Kristin: No, I mean, while we've opened another door, why were you so full of rage?
Jenny: Just Dawn. Dawn's making me crazy i n this scene. [audibly shudders]
Kristin: God. Do you think—
Jenny: Fiddling with the flowers, knocking over the vase.
Kristin: Write me a script—or whatever you wanna call it. Write me something where Dawn is actually not Dawn, she's Bella. And the little sister of Buffy is actually Bella Swan.
Jenny: [laughing] [ditsy voice] Oh my god, she's so clumsy. Oh my god, and she just loves v  ampires.
Kristin: [simultaneously, ditsy voice] She's so clumsy! She's just always dropping vases.
Jenny: Yo, I… let's see if I can do this without spoiling. On Halloween, I went to see a live performance of an episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer.
Kristin: Uh-huh?
Jenny: And there were, as you would expect, a bunch of human beings playing the various characters.
Kristin: [laughs] Uh-huh.
Jenny: But then when Dawn entered the stage, it was revealed that Dawn was just played by a plush hand puppet of a little girl. [Kristin laughs] Which felt… very satisfying and appropriate and I wanted to let everybody know.
Kristin: Yeah. So you're angry at Dawn, so angry! All she did was knock over a damn vase.
Jenny: Ugh. Yeah, well, it's all she does all episode is knock shit over! Watch your elbows. Although, you know, I'm very clumsy so maybe I'm just projecting my own disappointment in myself onto Dawn. It's possible.
Kristin: Ohh. Well, Joyce comes in and Dawn does take credit for everything basically that Buffy has—
Jenny: Oh my god, and it makes me so mad!
Kristin: [laughing] Just done. But she's—we learn that Joyce is having more headaches. And also that she calls Dawn "pumpkin belly." So.
Jenny: Oh god!
Kristin: I don't really like that as a nickname—
Jenny: Yeah, I hate t hat.
Kristin: But that's fine, it's not my nickname.
Jenny: Get it outta here! Yeah, okay.
Kristin: [laughs] And this is—you know, again, not to—we don't have to hit every one of these moments, but Buffy is like, "did I have any nicknames when I was a kid?" And Joyce is like, "no, you were just Buffy." And then we learn that in the absence of Pat, Dawn has been going to book club.
Jenny: [laughs] I think Dawn and Joyce have a private book club.
Kristin: Yeah, no, I do too. I just couldn't say "book club" without saying Pat.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Like, what are they reading, Sweet Valley High? Is Joyce reading Sweet Valley High with Dawn?
Kristin: Oh my god, or maybe Sweet Valley Twins. I think—
Jenny: Oh my god. Are they the younger ones?
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: What happens in Sweet Valley?
Kristin: Yeah. Sweet Valley High was the main one, and then Sweet Valley Twins, they were a little bit younger. And I actually read a lot of Sweet Valley Twins. But I think that Dawn would be reading the Twins and not the High. There was one where one of the twins got her period and I was fascinated with it. I was fascinated with any book that anyone got their period in, 'cause apparently, nobody was telling me anything that I needed to know.
Jenny: [laughs] Just gathering information wherever you could find it.
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah, I was like, Are You There God, It's Me Margaret, that Sweet Valley Twins book. There's probably a Babysitters Club that has a period in it, but I actually don't remember that as much as the other two.
Jenny: Oh my word.
Kristin: Anyway!
Jenny: Speaking of new beginnings.
Kristin: Oh my god, okay, so. This next scene is… [Jenny laughs] I mean… it's one of the most epic scenes in the whole series, if you ask me, personally. Do you agree with this, Jenny?
Jenny: It's quite special.
Kristin: So if you don't know what we're talking about, it's the scene where Buffy enters the magic shop, it's grand opening day. And Giles is standing there, in his wizard hat and his wizard cape. But I counted—okay, so. The scene—the scene actually starts before this 6 minute and 41 second mark. But at 6 minutes and 41 seconds is when Buffy first sees Giles, okay.
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: It is silent from 6:41 to 6:55. It's 14 complete s  econds of silence—
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: And six cuts back and forth. Buffy's face, then we see Giles for the first time, then we see Buffy's face.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: And it does that six times. It is fucking h  ilarious and incre—
Jenny: Incredible.
Kristin: Whoever edited this shit deserves a standing ovation.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah, it's really… really something.
Kristin: [laughing] It's so special! And I mean, we can't go any further, I don't think, without playing Giles' jingle.
Jenny: Sure, sure, sure.
NOTES: [GILES jingle plays] Giles! Hot dad! When you were younger you were real bad But now you're older, you got glasses That help you watch over us! Thank you, Giles!
Kristin: I don't know if he's quite a hot dad in his, um, wizard costume. [laughs]
Jenny: Not what I would say, but then he takes it off. So—reverting back to regular hot dad form. And, you know, he's kinda, I think, stressing out a little bit but trying to be cool on top—on the surface?
Kristin: Mm-hmm, of course.
Jenny: About the fact that there are no customers. Yet. And—
Kristin: Yeah, do you think he did enough signage outside? 'Cause I feel like Giles is the kind of guy who probably focused so much on the detailia [sic] of like, the store itself being perfect that perhaps he forgot to put up grand opening balloons.
Jenny: Yeah. You know what I'm concerned about? He's the sole proprietor of this business and has no employees. [Kristin laughs] He's just like, "hey teens that I hang out with, come do free labor for me all day."
Kristin: Yeah, it is curious that he decided to hire no one. [laughs] Zero people.
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah. Yeah, oh yeah. I like when Buffy says, "You'll be making money hand over fist" and then kinda puts her hand over her fist and tries to figure out, like, what is the origin of this colloquialism?
Kristin: Do you know? Do you know what the origin is?
Jenny: No, did you look it up? I should have looked it up.
Kristin: I did. So I would like for you to guess first what the origin is of "hand over fist."
Jenny: I always just pictured it as, like, oh, you're making so much money that you're reaching and grabbing some and then as you're pulling that money back with your fist, you're reaching your open hand towards more money that you're then grabbing. And it just is a cycle of grabbing money and your hand—your open hand reaching for the money passing over your fist, clutching the money you've already obtained. And then there's a little girl, selling matches. [both laugh] And then she dies!
Kristin: [simultaneously] And she has a penny.
Jenny: [laughing] Yeah, she has two pennies, actually.
Kristin: Two.
Jenny: And then there's three bears.
Kristin: [laughs] And Little Red Riding Rood is there.
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: So… you're actually—I mean, your imagery is pretty spot-on. But it has nautical origins, Jenny.
Jenny: Ooh!
Kristin: It originated from the speed at which you would pull the rope on a boat.
Jenny: Hell yeah. Woo!
Kristin: So same gesture, right? That same thing that you were saying—
Jenny: Yep.
Kristin: But instead of money, it was a rope. And it actually originated in the 1800s, meaning a steady pace. Like, you would steadily kind of like, hand over fist—
Jenny: Ahh. Right, right, right.
Kristin: Or hand over hand, but then by the 1900s, that meaning sort of changed to be fast. Quickly, hand over fist.
Jenny: Right, right, right, right.
Kristin: So yeah. So you were not far off. It's just that instead of money—
Jenny: Oh, yes.
Kristin: It was a rope.
Jenny: Isn't all money kind of a rope? At the end of the day.
Kristin: Great… transition. [laughs]
Jenny: Anyway. Don't think too hard about that. I love—so Buffy—just like, quick aside, Buffy's worried about Joyce and she tells Giles, whatever. I'm concerned, but I'm way more concerned about the fact that Willow dragged Riley down to the magic shop so that he could also see Giles in his wizard cloak.
Kristin: Yes! [both laugh] It's really cute. It's really cute. It's also, like, so amazing, the opposite personalities we have in Willow and Buffy, that we just had this whole scene where Buffy was literally staring death daggers at his costume. [laughing] Meanwhile, Willow is like, more excited than she's been about anything else in her life.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Also, why is she not bringing Tara? You know what I mean? Tara's the one who would love this fucking hat.
Jenny: I… don't know. I think Riley's got space in his heart for Giles looking goofy.
Kristin: That's true. One quick thing before we move forward with this scene. I know it's not the pivotal in the episode, but Dawn—so when Buffy comes in, Dawn runs in after her and is like, "You thought you could lose me but you were wrong!" And I'm just like, okay, hold up, back up for a second—
Jenny: [laughs] There's like one street in Sunnydale.
Kristin: Yeah, and what did Buffy do? Did Buffy leave with Dawn and just run as fast as she could, hoping Dawn wouldn't catch up?
Jenny: I mean… yeah, it's—
Kristin: Anyway, it was just a thing that I noted that I wanted to ask you about. Also, Dawn has a really hilarious moment where she's like, "oh, there's all these talismen. Talis-dudes? Talis-guys?" She's like, trying to be—
Jenny: Talis-fellas. Yeah, what's the plural of talisman?
Kristin: Talis—I think talis-dudes is what I would vote for.
Jenny: Yeah, I'm feeling that.
Kristin: Then Buffy's like, "yo, there's this fucking orb." And Giles is like, "it's gotta be paranormal because it's so shiny." Which I think is pretty accurate. [both laugh]
Jenny: Yeah, I mean, some of the more reasonable reasoning we've heard on this show up to this point.
Kristin: Right, and then Dawn opens her big mouth.
Jenny: Oh, no!
Kristin: And she really blows it for Buffy when she's like, "yo, Buffy doesn't even want you to go on patrol. She says you can't do anything, basically. You're really cute and kitteny."
Jenny: Ugh.
Kristin: And Riley goes from being embarrassed to like, so embarassed, and has to leave the room because this is the worst. And Dawn's clueless, she has no idea that she's upset him.
Jenny: Yeah, I mean—and this is tough. But I feel like it's gotta be extra irritating to get dealt a blow like this via Dawn.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Ugh!
Kristin: Because also it's like, not only do you know that your girlfriend is talking about your weakness, but she's talking to her little sister who she doesn't even like about your weakness.
Jenny: Or at least in front of your little sister.
Kristin: So Riley's like, "yo, I gotta get outta here. Is the danger room open?" What? [laughs]
Jenny: Danger room, it's like a… you know. Let's actually look up the origin of that, because I think it's just a—oh! You know what it is, it's the X-Men.
Kristin: Ohh!
Jenny: So… the X-Men in Charles Xavier's compound, where he's educating young mutants and also running the X-Men. They have something called the danger room, which is like, sort of a combat training simulator that can kind of come up with anything. Sentinels, Magneto, whatever, so you can train.
Kristin: Oh. So he's talking about the training room, but he's being cool about it.
Jenny: Yes, I would say that by talking about the X-Men, he is being cool about it.
Kristin: [laughs] Well, some might say nerdy but here—
Jenny: I genuinely believe that, but I wanna make it open to other people to not feel like that. [Kristin laughs] The X-Men rock.
Kristin: Really quickly, I just wanna pull out some terminology here that I assume a lot of you already know is pretty ableist and inappropriate that's said in this scene. But just in case you don't, Willow says—so Willow is basically saying to Buffy, 'cause Buffy is as furious as Jenny is at Dawn. [laughs] Buffy is that mad. And Willow says, "go easy on her, she's a spaz just like me."
Jenny: Ahh…
Kristin: Yeah, no, Willow—Willow is talking about how, like, quirky and clumsy and what have you. But spaz is a word rooted in spastic. It's, you know, a word that's rooted in disability and so it's not a great word. But in the 90s, guess what? We all said it and a lot of people still say it now. So just in case you didn't know, that word is not cool.
Jenny: Yeah, that's a word you could stop saying, if you are saying it.
Kristin: Yeah. Buffy wants to know why she can't be a lil' pumpkin belly.
Jenny: Ugh, who wants to be… I don't even wanna say that phrase. But who wants to be that?
Kristin: Say it, Jenny, say it! Say it!
Jenny: Who wants to be a lil' pumpkin belly? [gags]
Kristin: Nice. [laughs]
Jenny: It's so gross. [laughing] Then Buffy's like, "Why can I ever be a lil' pumpkin belly?" and Willow's like, "Well, I don't feel qualified to address that part of your question."
Kristin: [simultaneously, laughing] Right, I can't speak to that. [both laugh]
Jenny: And then Dawn breaks some more shit in the magic shop. Ahh!
Kristin: Wow. Your—I'm surprised actually, Jenny. I didn't think your Dawn disdain… your Dawn'sdain would pick up so quickly.
Jenny: This episode is particularly egregious. Or the beginning of this episode is very frustrating. Okay. Then. Joyce is laid up with a headache, she's not feeling so great. Buffy's like, "let me go get your scrip' at the hospital pharmacy." Then it's like, "hi, Ben," and now I have to tell you something.
Kristin: Oh boy.
Jenny: You and everyone who's listening.
Kristin: Oh boy.
Jenny: Are you prepared?
Kristin: I'm ready.
Jenny: I was recently watching the music video for the Puddle of Mudd song, She Hates Me. It doesn't matter why!
Kristin: [laughing] I'm sorry—
Jenny: It's none of your goddamn business!
Kristin: I just—sorry. I'm gonna let you jump off this launch pad in a second, but I just wanna let you know that as somebody who doesn't know what you've been watching lately, that my updates have been— [Jenny laughs] in chronological
order: Eyes Wide Shut—
Jenny: Hell yeah.
Kristin: A live taping of—a live performance of a Buffy episode and this music video. So I just wanna say—
Jenny: That's right.
Kristin: Your taste is incredibly eclectic.
Jenny: Well, I'm a—I have many facets. I am—I contain multitudes.
Kristin: [laughing] Okay, so you're watching puddles of mud, whatever.
Jenny: Puddle of Mudd, with two D's. And the song is She Hates Me, do you know that song?
Kristin: Um, sing a little bit of it?
Jenny: It's like—you're gonna know it as soon as I sing it. It's like, [singing] "She fucking hates me. [Kristin laughs] La la la la! She fucking hates me."
Kristin: Yes, I do, I do.
Jenny: [singing] Hmm-hmm-hmm!
Kristin: Suddenly, I can see both of those D's at the end of Mudd very clearly.
Jenny: Exactly. Exactly! Exactly. And the band kinda looks like four dudes from American Gladiators borrowed the wardrobe of, like… Hinder. And—they just have long, flowing hair and they make really strong eye contact with the camera and they're like, "La la la la!" [Kristin laughs] Okay, so. First of all, I was first shocked to learn that the girl—the one girl who fucking hates you in this music video is played by none other than Lyla fucking Garrity.
Kristin: Ooh!
Jenny: Minka Kelly is just there on the bed with her stuffed animals, singing into her corded phone.
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: Okay, but that's not why we're here today, talking about Puddle of Mudd.
Kristin: I'm always here for Lyla Garrity.
Jenny: The premise of this video… is that there's a bunch of people in high school and also working in a food service—a variety of food service jobs, like, a counter guy and then there's a gentleman washing dishes, running the dish zone in the back of a restaurant. And I'm pretty fucking sure that that young gentleman—I would recognize those soft pouty lips and that feathered hair just about anywhere. I'm pretty sure it's fucking Charlie Weber who plays Ben. And—however. However. If this is accurate… if this is accurate, the credit has been scrubbed from the internet.
Kristin: Oh!
Jenny: So if anyone can confirm or deny for me that that's Charlie Weber in the music video of She Hates Me by Puddle of Mudd—
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: Please write in and let us know, thank you.
Kristin: Incredible. I was—before you said you couldn't find it, I was like, I cannot believe you are telling us this entire story and you didn't look up to confirm [laughs] if it was Charlie—if it was him. So now it all makes sense. Please let us know. Wow, Jenny.
Jenny: Thank you.
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: What else? What's next?
Kristin: What a ride. What a ride. Love—
Jenny: That's all I have to say about this episode. [both laugh]
Kristin: So, okay. Well, I have a jingle to play for Ben right out of the gates here. He calls himself—he says, "you can refer to me as Man Nurse." Which could get this jingle, but I'm actually gonna give the jingle for the next thing he says, which is when Buffy sort of pins this, you know, patient—which we will learn is the security guard from before—down to the bed. He says something like, "I don't mean to… [laughs] sexually harrass you in the workplace—"
Jenny: "Not to be rampantly sexist in the workplace, but… "
Kristin: In the workplace, right. "But you've got some serious muscles for a girl."
NOTES: [THE PATRIARCHY jingle plays] The patriarchy! [thunder clap, evil laughter]
Jenny: Here's the thing. I think that what— [laughs] am I just always gonna be the devil's advocate of this podcast? I feel like—
Kristin: You're gonna devil's advocate The Patriarchy jingle on "you've got serious muscles for a girl"?
Jenny: Uh, he is very self aware that what he's saying could be interpreted as rampantly sexist. But he has just witnessed a feat of great strength—there are multiple people trying to hold this guy down. And Buffy one-arms it.
Kristin: Yeah. And he could say, "you've got some serious muscles."
Jenny: [simultaneously] That's like—that's not just about her being a girl, that's just like, "goddamn."
Kristin: Right. Well, that's what I'm saying.
Jenny: Okay, sure.
Kristin: The thing that gave it the jingle was the "for a girl," not that he recognized that she had super stre—I mean, that, yes, of course.
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: Goodness gracious! Sometimes I wonder, what are we even doing here? So… [both laugh] So she's like—he's like, "oh, it's a radioactive spider bite?" And she's like, "something like that," which is cute.
Jenny: Yeah, I like that. Just a little more comics stuff, little more Marvel.
Kristin: Right. And then we get this moment with the security guard, where she's like, "I know this guy. Like, I just saw him and he was not talking the way that he's talking right now." And he looks at her and looks at the meds that she's holding and is like, "Those don't help." And then he's like, "they come through the family, they're gonna come after your family, they're blah blah blah." And she's like, fuck! I think she drops the pills, right?
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Okay, so, Buffy's like, "yo, I know what this is about, I've done five seasons of this television show, and my mom isn't sick. She's being fucked with by a demon of some kind." She runs off. And then… we get to a very important scene.
Jenny: There's a big metal door.
Kristin: There sure is.
Jenny: Three monks have become one. [Kristin laughs] Just like in the Spice Girls song.
Kristin: Exactly what I thought of, the minute you said it. Uh, yes—
Jenny: And something scary is bang, bang, banging away at that big metal door.
Kristin: It's true. As a matter of fact—
Jenny: What do you think happened between two months ago and right now? How many doors has that thing kicked down?
Kristin: I don't know, and that's what I was wondering, because the door of the front of the place is intact. So I'm just curious, did the Beast fall from the sky like Angel fell from hell that one time?
Jenny: Ohh.
Kristin: And was she wearing the red dress already? Did she put it on the back room?
Jenny: Hmm.
Kristin: Because she's obviously not come through the whole building like that. So I'm not sure, but alas. The door busts down. And it's a pretty epic—I mean, this is a pretty fucking rad thing, because—obviously played for her size. The door's monstrous and made of metal, and when it falls down it's this huge cloud of dust. And the silhouette that we see is miniature, right? It's like, literally the size of Buffy. This Beast and Buffy are matched, they're exactly the same size. They're not matched in strength, which we'll find out in a few scenes.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: But she then—the camera focuses in, and she has on a beautiful red dress, lipstick that matches. Faith would be stoked on this choice of fucking lipstick. If you have thoughts on what the shade is called, please write in to us at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com. And her hair. Is just. Glorious! I think, wouldn't you say?
Jenny: Yes, I would agree, mm-hmm.
Kristin: And she says, "I've been looking all over for you" and we cut. And we cut to the Magic Box, where Giles is making his first sale.
Jenny: What!
Kristin: He's so excited. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah, he's positively giddy. Until Anya trounces in. Loudly proclaiming that the conjuring powder is grotesquely overpriced.
Kristin: Uh, yeah. And not only does Anya have some complaints about the conjuring powder prices—because I'm sure that all of you listening thought, we're gonna hear from Kate Leth, and we're gonna hear from Kate Leth as soon as this red dress and red lipstick appear. And I thought so too, listener. However, I had to give it another beat, because then Anya showed up wearing this leopard dress.
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: And I texted—Jenny, I texted Kate about this leopard dress. And she immediately texted me back the name of this dress. I had no idea what she was talking about—
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: And I was like, alright, alright, alright, save it for the podcast. So can we, may we, please, go to Kate Leth.
NOTES: [Jenny singing Fashion Watch intro theme] It's time for our friend Kate To give you the Buffy fashion update!
Kate: [sound of cat purring throughout clip] Well, hello, hello indeed, and welcome back to Buffy Fashion Watch. I usually have to watch out for the planes going by in the background when I'm recording, but today, you might hear some kitty purrs. Because Ray, one of my adorable little cats, has decided to curl up right next to the microphone and absolutely refuses to leave. So um, she's a part of this as much as you or I. Alright, so with that covered and as Ray tries to devour my hand, let's talk about the incredible fashion in an episode where Giles wearing a wizard costume and hat is actually maybe not the standout look from the episode. I don't know, there's definitely some competition. Because not only did we have the Beast, the unnamed figure of great power and fashion, who shows up in an incredible form-fitting red dress and heels that, well, don't actually work out for her. [laughs] We've also got Anya in a leopard-print cheongsam. It was very funny because Kristin texted me a screencap of Anya's dress in the Magic Box and I immediately wrote back, "oh my god, is that a leopard-print cheongsam?" And Kristin was like, "what?" [laughs] It's a very particular kind of dress. It's Chinese, it's a traditional look. It's also called a qipao and they were very big in the 90s before, uh, mainstream folks, I think, had any concept of cultural appropriation. They were everywhere, and you might feel a little strange if you saw them now. But at the time, real big. And honestly, the leopard print… it's really working for Anya. Now I might be biased because I'm literally wearing two leopard-print items right now, [laughing] both a turtleneck with puffy sleeves—sorry that I keep laughing, this cat is licking my hand the entire time that I'm talking. But also, some leopard-print sandals that would not be out of place in this episode. But we've also got some really great looks from Buffy. You know, I'm a big fan of the t-shirt with the sparkly devil on it, it does remind me of that cat sticker I talked about many, many episodes ago now. [laughing] God, she is still licking my hand. This is many takes later, by the way, so I'm just rolling with it at this point. But I also really, really love her look from the beginning of the episode, where she has that necklace that's kind of almost designed like a tie, where it's got that clip in the middle and bits hanging down and then she also has that sort of gold tassely belt thing happening. There's a lot of midriff, lot of hint of midriff happening. Also, another rare shout out to Xander. That, you know, kind of slightly V-necked red sweater is really working for him. Like, he looks good in this episode. He walked into the Magic Box and I thought, damn. Is that Xander? Alright, cool, whatever, let's look at Anya again so I don't feel weird about it. And then we did, and everything was fine. Now, I'm not ignoring Willow's adorable daisy sweater, it's very cute. I also really like that lavender denim jacket with the matchy dangly earrings that she's got going on. I'm currently rocking kind of a short bob myself and that thing where the earrings sort of hang below the line of the bob is just—it's so classy. I feel like Ms. Fisher every time, even if I sort of just look like hot trash, but you know. It's a good inspiration and Willow is definitely pulling it off. And, you know, Dawn kind of doesn't get a lot of fashion highlights in this show because she's 15 and they're dressing her like she's 15. And being 15 in the early 2000s was a nightmare where fashion was concerned. But I will say that that patchwork denim jacket that she has? My friend Ellen wore to a dress-as-your-high-school-self party once when I was, I think, 22, and I wanted it so much that she gave it to me. And I'm pretty sure I still have it, so you know. Dawn's getting one thing right. And with that said, I will leave you to the rest of your episode. And until next time, I'll see you at the mall.
NOTES: [Jenny singing Fashion Watch outro theme] That was our friend Kate She gave you the Buffy fashion update!
Kristin: Oh my goodness. So…
Jenny: Incred… bless. Praise.
Kristin: Can you even—just a casual—it was just a casual day over here. I sent Kate a text message and she comes back with some hot terminology. She literally was like, "Did I come out too hot with my fashion nerd?" And I'm like, no, never, Kate. Never.
Jenny: [laughs] No such thing.
Kristin: No. So… thank you, Kate.
Jenny: Okay, so. Anya, in this dress, is feeling bitter because she's never had to
afford things before. Which further continues to raise this question for me: what is the economy of vengeance demons like? Does D'Hoffryn pay them a stipend? Do they just—it's not like they can create money, for example. Or can they? Can they just—
Kristin: I'm sure they can.
Jenny: Hmm, okay, so individual vengeance demons are just—
Kristin: [simultaneously] Probably the crash of 2008 is because the demons made too much money, you know?
Jenny: [amused] Okay, okay.
Kristin: But no, I was fully—I thought we were running with the severance package being the canon of what has happened here. 'Cause I—literally my note—
Jenny: No, yes, yes, yes. Yes, that, but for the thousand years that she was a vengeance demon, why didn't she have to afford things? Was it because she could create her own money or what?
Kristin: I wonder if demons—so we've talked a lot already on the podcast about, you know, they have their own salon, they have their own bar at Willy's. They've got their own heating and cooling systems. They've got the whole underground thing. So I wonder—'cause you bring up, I think, a good point, Jenny, which is—you know, we use the dollar. I was recently in France and was using euros. You travel to other place—there's internet money now. So do demons—
Jenny: Sure, sure. I recently bought some bitcoin.
Kristin: You bought s—okay. Listen. You can't just throw that on me. [both laugh]
Jenny: Sorry!
Kristin: You can't just fucking throw "I bought some bitcoin"—
Jenny: [simultaneously] There I was, watching the Puddle of Mudd music video for She Hates Me—
Kristin: What is happening to you!?
Jenny: While buying some bitcoin. [both laugh]
Kristin: Somebody save Jenny. [both laugh] She's sitting in her room watching Puddles of Mudd videos, buying bitcoin.
Jenny: Oh my god, Puddle. Singular puddle. [Kristin laughs] Singular puddle, two D's on the Mudd.
Kristin: Okay, I'm so sorry. Wow. I'm—the whole episode is thrown because I'm only gonna be thinking about the fact that you own bitcoin for the rest of today. [Jenny laughs] But I wonder if demons have their own currency. Right?
Jenny: Yeah—oh, that's a really interesting question.
Kristin: And you know what I think—
Jenny: Or like, barter—do they rely more heavily on barter, I wonder.
Kristin: Right. But I do think that we know one thing, Jenny, and that's that you and I just did some serious…
NOTES: [HELLMATH jingle plays] Hellmath!
Kristin: Okay, so, Buffy's like "yo, remember that fucking orb? I think my mom is sick because of it." And there's this really great little comedy moment where Anya, Giles and Willow all take one giant step back from the orb. [both laugh] Buffy's like, "no, no, it's not gonna hurt us. But it's making her sick." And they're like, "what are you gonna do about it?" And she's like, "I'm gonna find them, I'm gonna hunt them, and I'm gonna kill them." Which reminded me, Jenny, a bit, of "want, take have." I feel like she's taking a page out of that book.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Yeah, I think that Faith is one of the great early pioneers of saying things in threes.
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah, with all that "five by five" she should—
Jenny: Stating her triplicate intentions.
Kristin: Her phrase should have been "three by three," you know what I mean?
Jenny: [laughs] Yes.
Kristin: So the Beast—we cut to the Beast in the warehouse, who is monologuing about how much she hates the mortal coil. [laughing] She could crap a better existence than this one.
Jenny: Gross. Uncalled for.
Kristin: She says, Jenny, that she's been told she has boundary issues. Which made me laugh so hard, because I was like, does she go to therapy? Like, where— who has told her that she has boundary issues? Is it a previous relationship of hers?
Jenny: Ooh! Good question.
Kristin: You know, I just wanna—right?
Jenny: I wanna know too, yeah.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Who's she even interacting with besides… these guys?
Kristin: I know. I mean, I guess we don't—I guess we don't know. But I guess also we find out that she does have actual physical boundary issues, just moments later when she puts both of her hands inside of the head of the other security guard.
Jenny: Gross, gross. Gross, gross, gross, gross, gross.
Kristin: So perhaps it was just one of these other people that she's brain-sucked who said, "excuse me, ma'am?"
Jenny: "Excuse me, ma'am."
Kristin: "Uh, you seem to have some boundary issues." So she's pissed because this monk won't tell her where the Key is.
Jenny: She wants that Key! She wants that Key and she's all sweaty about it! [both laugh] Ooh!
Kristin: [laughs] I think you might have just become eligible for one of our Sexual Tension Award nominations, without knowing it.
Jenny: Yeah, it's definitely the most anybody gets sweaty about anything in this episode. There's not a lot of sexual tension to be found, so I'll take it where we find it.
Kristin: Right. There's also a moment—a very… commentary about the worst parts about America, I think? Where she's like—the monk says something in his language and she says—she replies half back in his language and then she's like, "This is the new world, speak American!" Which is obviously a dig on—
Jenny: Gross!
Kristin: Yeah. On all of the people that still exist today, unfortunately, in the same and even more dangerous ways. [sarcastically] Cool! Moving along.
Jenny: Okay. So. In go the fingers, and then—
Kristin: [laughs] Gross, Jenny!
Jenny: [laughs] And then we cut over—
Kristin: So that is what she said.
Jenny: [laughs] She said that, she is me. Let me live. The Magic Box is overrun! Giles is in a pa—
Kristin: Wait. Wait.
Jenny: What?
Kristin: Wait, wait.
Jenny: What?
Kristin: Wait. Two really big things happen in the scene before this. Before we go to the Magic Box. One is—well, first of all, the Beast delivers a monologue in her meltdown state that is incredible, which I personally would love to play, if that's alright with you, Jenny.
Jenny: Go for it.
NOTES: [Clip from episode plays]
The Beast: I bet this is fun for you, isn't it? Say it. You like to torture me. Why? You don't even own the damn thing and I want it, I need it, and I've gotta have it now and you keep refusing to tell me where the Key is! And it's typical! It's typical, it's typical, the whole mortal meatsack comes complete with stink and bile, sweat and protein. Yes, I said humans! Not now, Mommy's talking! Wriggling, piling, prowling, crawling, clowning, cavorting, doing it over and over and over and over until someone's gonna sit down on their tuffet and make this birthing stop! [man screams]
Kristin: Okay, so two things about this monologue. One, there's a really key thing that she says, which is, "sit down… " Like, she says something about sitting down on your tuffet. And this is the third time that we have heard reference to Little Miss Muffet. Right?
Jenny: Yes. Yes!
Kristin: So, you know, it's just fun.
Jenny: Yes. [makes Psycho stab sound effect]
Kristin: It's like the polar bear in Lost, you know? We gotta keep track of it.
Jenny: Birds of a lipstick flock together, as I've always said.
Kristin: [laughs] And then the other thing is that the moment that I heard her say "wriggling, piling, prowling, crawling" I asked Jenny if she might make a little something for us. And she did.
Jenny: [whispers] And here it is.
NOTES: [Jingle starts] Wriggling, piling, prowling, crawling And let's not forget cavorting
Kristin: So you're all welcome. For that gift.
Jenny: Yeah, the theme song we all just want to find other way—like, any excuse I have to listen to that song in any form, I'm just like, please.
Kristin: Please, please, please.
NOTES: [Ad music starts]
Jenny: Today's episode is brought to you by Care Of. This time of year, it's easy to fall off track when it comes to your health, wellness and fitness routine. The days are getting shorter, the nights are getting longer, it's cold outside. And the threat of getting sick looms large on the horizon, look out! As the holidays approach and things start getting busier, find balance and stay healthy with Care Of. They make it easy to get the right vitamins, supplements and protein powders for your specific needs. All you have to do is a take a short, fun, five-minute quiz and answer easy questions about your diet, lifestyle and health needs and goals. Then you'll get a research-backed recommendation with the vitamins, supplements and/or protein powders you need based on your personalized quiz results. Your Care Of order gets shipped right to your door in convenient daily packs, perfect for a busy on-the-go lifestyle. And you can modify your subscription any time. And hey, vegan and vegetarian supplement options are also available. I've been using Care Of for a while now, I love them. Taking the quiz was so easy and recently I've been using their plant-based protein powder, which totally rocks and is particularly great after a long session on the wall at the rock climbing gym. So if you want to take that quiz and start your Care Of journey, you can get 50% off your first Care Of order. Just go to takecareof.com and enter "buffering50." That's takecareof.com and code "buffering50" for 50% off your first Care Of order.
Kristin: Today's episode was also brought to you by Eversmile WhiteFoam. Eversmile WhiteFoam is America's #1 selling aligner cleaner for clear teeth
aligners: Invisalign, SmileDirectClub, Candid. What better way to keep your fangs both aligned and sparkling white? Most people, and vampires, prefer aligners over braces because they're less noticeable. But aligner-wearers can feel self-conscious when the aligners start get yellow. Eversmile WhiteFoam is the only on-the-go aligner cleaner. They've sold over a million bottles. It kills bacteria, it freshens breath, it whitens your fangs. It's the trifecta. You just pump the foam into your trays, put them back into your mouth, and off you go. Because Eversmile WhiteFoam is the first and only wearable aligner cleaner. There's no soaking or rinsing required. Aligners—this is gross, but aligners begin to collect biofilm and bacteria the moment you put them into your mouth, and you wear them all day. Eversmile WhiteFoam kills 99.999% of decay- and odor-causing bacteria within 60 seconds. The patented hydrogen peroxide based formula also breaks up stain molecules, preventing staining and lightly whitening your teeth over time. In short, Eversmile WhiteFoam gets you the best results from your clear aligners. Pick up a bottle at your local participating CVS Pharmacy or visit EverSmileWhite.com/buffy, and use coupon code "buffy30" for 30% off your first order. That's EverSmileWhite.com/buffy with the code "buffy30."
Jenny: Support for today's show comes from Native. Native is all about creating safe, simple, effective products that people use every day. Native deodorant is formulated without aluminium, parabens or talc, and with ingredients found in nature like coconut oil, shea butter, tapioca starch. Their formula contains simple ingredients you understand and comes in a wide variety of enticing scents. Plus they release limited addition seasonal scents throughout the year. I personally am a sucker for the general concept of limited addition seasonal scents, so this is very exciting to me, and it will be exciting to you. Making the switch to a natural deodorant does not mean having to sacrifice on odor and wetness protection. Native is proof. There's a reason it has over 9,000 five-star reviews. There's also no risk to try it. Native offers free shipping and free returns and exchanges in the USA. I'll tell you what, I've been using Native deodorant for a while and it's true. They have a wide variety of scents that all smell really good. But as much as I love enticing scents, what's really important to me about deodorant is that it is effective. And Native deodorant is. I also love that it's not chock-full of aluminium and parabens and all of that stuff, that is a massive plus. And recently I've switched over to the wild mint and spruce seasonal scent, and I cannot recommend it enough. It rocks. It smells so good! If you wanna try it, you can get 20% off your first purchase. Just visit nativedeodorant.com and use promo code "buffy" during checkout.
NOTES: [Ad music fades out]
Kristin: Alright, now we can get to your busy, busy Magic Box, Jenny.
Jenny: Okay! The Magic Box is full . There are people everywhere. People want things from Giles and he's all stressed out about it. Then in comes Xander in a red sweater, looking… muscular?
Kristin: Mm!
Jenny: And tall. And like he's been hitting the gym. He looks great. His hair is at a really good length.
Kristin: Wow, we're really going for a Xander detour, aren't we?
Jenny: Xander looks great in this episode and who knows how long it'll last? So why not call it out while it's there to enjoy. [Kristin laughs] Meanwhile, Anya finishes a transaction with a customer and says, "Please go."
Kristin: [laughing] "Please go!"
Jenny: And then Xander says, "hey, you know, why don't you try saying 'have a nice day'?" And she says, "I have their money, who cares what kind of day they have?" [Kristin laughs] Ah, the sweet days before we all felt the great weight of the leaden boot of late-stage capitalism upon our necks and we could enjoy jokes like this one.
Kristin: Ugh. Well and Xander is like, "it's a long cultural tradition of raging… " um…
Jenny: Insincerity.
Kristin: [laughing] Insincerity! So then she tries—she tries to say have a nice day! She's like, "hey, you! Have a nice day!" [laughs] And Jenny, something really important I think is about to happen. It could have happened really at any point, but this is the point in which, I think we should give Anya something that you made for her.
Jenny: [gasps]
Kristin: Don't you?
Jenny: Anya, I made something for you. I hope you like it. Here it is. [Kristin laughs]
NOTES: [ANYA jingle plays] [cash register rings] She spent one millennium, demonically vengeancin' Speaks her mind and then some, you know She's partial to the finer things and down with double boyfriends, oh yeah Exchanging cash for goods and also services She'd love to hold the money for ya (she'll hold that cash) Just keep the bunnies far from… Anya!
Jenny: I need to call out Willow for not knowing how the fuck to gift wrap something.
Kristin: Yo, Willow is the worst—
Jenny: What's wrong with this girl?!
Kristin: This is bad. I'm not good at wrapping things, but this is real bad.
Jenny: Yeah, it looks like… it just looks like something she pulled out of the trash when she's done.
Kristin: [laughs] Her hands are like, stuck inside of it when she's done. [both laugh] And Anya, ever Anya, is like, "yeah, it looks good if you wrapped it with your feet." Which like, accurate. Accurate. Also, fucking Giles is losing his mind. He's like, [frantically] "There's—so many—people! And I don't know what to do." And before Xander talks to Anya, he's like, "Listen, man. Stay British. You'll be okay." [both laugh] Which is cute. Okay! So then we get to the part in the episode where Anya basically is like, "hey, I've got an idea. There was this sorcerer named Cloutier. And he was so cute in his little knickers.
Jenny: Aw!
Kristin: And he had this—yeah, I mean, I would love more backstory on that. But he had this trance spell—or trance that you could put yourself in to see spells. You could see—we learn that every spell leaves sort of like a signature mark that humans can't see. But with this spell, you can see it. So Buffy's like, "cool, I'll do it because then I can figure out what's hurting my mom." And you know, they're a little worried. They're like, "really? Are you sure?" and she's like, "I've been training for this moment, I've got it, guys."
Jenny: Yeah. So she goes home to do the spell. And she asks Riley to help her out, but there's really nothing for him to do, as he is quick to notice and inquire about. And she says, "no, there's like, magic incense and spooky sand. I really—"
Kristin: Spooky sand is—
Jenny: —"could use some help wrangling the spooky sand."
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah.
Jenny: And Riley's like, "is this to make up for me, you know, being all weak and kitteny?"
Kristin: He says "kittenish," she corrects him to say—
Jenny: No, no, he says kitteny, and she corrects him to kittenish.
Kristin: Oh, it's kittenish. I thought it was kitteny. I think you're wrong, actually.
Jenny: You wanna put $5 down, make it interesting?
Kristin: Five bucks. Five bucks down. Five bucks says Buffy says "kitteny" and Riley says "ah, kitteny, much manlier than kittenish." Getting nervous over there, aren't you, Jenny?
Jenny: No.
Kristin: Quaking in your boots, aren't you, Jenny?
Jenny: I'm done quaking because I've discovered that you're right.
Kristin: [laughs smugly] $5 for me!
Jenny: Okay, yeah, I'll Venmo you.
Kristin: [laughs] You better. I'm gonna take a screencap and prove it to everybody that you did it.
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: Okay. So Riley makes a good point and you know I say that very rarely on this podcast. But he is like, "listen, how about instead of you taking care of me, we agree to take care of each other." And—
Jenny: [sarcastically] Wow, what an asshole! What a terrible boyfriend! Who would say such a thing?
Kristin: You don't have to be—you know, the more time goes by, the more and more you become just like Riley, Jenny. [laughs]
Jenny: [laughs] Tall and broad-shouldered and butterscotchy and hunky? Thank you.
Kristin: [laughs] Listen, I'm just trying to say that I think that this is a good point. And I think Buffy thinks it's a good point too. She really is like, "oh, yeah, solid point, man."
Jenny: Yeah. I mean, yeah, so much of her life is—even though she's got her squad, so much of her life is about being the leader and the weight of the literal world being on her shoulders. So it's really hard, I think, for her to get out of that mode, which makes it—you know, I think that's a big challenge for her and for her partners in her partnering.
Kristin: Totally. Yeah. So I think that this was a good moment for them, on sort of the heels of a rough episode so far for them. But then, I'm sorry to just like, give everybody whiplash, because then we just come to a screeching halt when she's like, "can you kiss me a little bit better?" And then he tries to? Or does—and it's—
Jenny: I wish that they didn't kiss all the time on camera. [laughs]
Kristin: It's rough. It's real rough. It's—
Jenny: Well, you know, do you think it's extra hard because they're, I think, more than a foot different in height? I think she's 5'2" and he's like, 6'3" or something.
Kristin: Listen, I'm sure it's a little more difficult, but I'm just saying that they should have figured it out by now.
Jenny: Oh sorry, he's 6'2", they're exactly one foot apart in height.
Kristin: I think—I really think that there are people in this world who are one foot difference who can kiss more passionately than this hunk of cardboard kisses her. I'm sorry.
Jenny: Okay. Okay.
Kristin: Okay, so. Buffy makes a really horrible circle out of red sand. It's almost a square, it's so bad.
Jenny: [laughs] She really did need help wrangling the spooky sand!
Kristin: [laughing] She did, yeah! And Dawn wants to watch and Buffy's a jerk about it. She's like, "fuck off, Dawn."
Jenny: Then we get a little Santa Barbara B-roll, hey!
Kristin: You love Santa Barbara B-roll.
Jenny: [simultaneously] And hours go by, the sun goes down, the sun sets over Santa Barbara, I mean, Sunnydale. And then Buffy is tripping.
Kristin: Yeah, she's tripping hard. There's like, wind chimes in the background—
Jenny: Not that I know anything about tripping. I just assume this is kinda what it's like.
Kristin: Sure, sure, sure. Jenny, have you—I know that you and I both have done mushrooms. But have you ever done LS—
Jenny: [shouts] Whoa! Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. This is a family podcast. [laughs]
Kristin: Well, like, everybody has mushrooms, like with their chicken and, you know, in their soup—
Jenny: Oh, right, yes. Yes, I like shitake mushrooms and baby portabellos—
Kristin: Yeah. But I was just wondering if you'd ever, like, used any stamps on your mail.
Jenny: No, no, I've never done acid. Have you?
Kristin: No, I have not. I have not. I've done a lot of mushrooms and never acid. 'Cause I think at heart, you and I are both hippies. Which is why I chose to do mushrooms and not acid. I was like, "these come from the earth. They have to be safer."
Jenny: Ha! I was just like, "these are available."
Kristin: [laughs] Okay! So where are we? She's tripping. She's tripping, and I have a question. And it actually is related to tripping, which is, if you send your friend off with a bag of mushrooms or a bag of magical mushroom trippy sand supplies, wouldn't you at least go with her? Like, somebody should have been in the house with her. Like, Willow is in the basement or somebody is somewhere.
Jenny: Yeah, well, I think the deal is that the Magic Box is so bananas that they couldn't.
Kristin: They can't?
Jenny: Nobody could get away. Where's Tara?
Kristin: Where is T  ara? But yeah, I just—I find it—I was nervous for Buffy because it's very apparent that she really is tripping pretty hard. And then she's just alone, like, walking around in her house, tripping. Which cannot be good, cannot be fun. But anyhow.
Jenny: Yeah, I can say from someone else's experience that this is not your ideal scenario.
Kristin: [laughs] Right. So she runs into Joyce down at the foot of the stairs. And there's nothing. And that's what Buffy says. Joyce is like, "what the fuck is wrong with you?" But…
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah.
Kristin: What we're learning is, of course, that there is no spell around Joyce. Now, this is really fucking cool. I don't know how you feel about this reveal, but like, when she—
Jenny: I think it's awesome.
Kristin: It's amazing, right? She looks up at the picture of Dawn, Joyce and herself, and the image of Dawn is just fading in and fading out of the picture.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: It's like, bone-chillingly fucking cool. And if you watch this—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: In real time, and this is the moment when you're putting it all together. I just felt my stomach flip and this is, like, the eighth time I've watched this episode at this point.
Jenny: Yeah, it's definitely… unsettling.
Kristin: Yeah. And we've talked so much about how well they do dream sequences and I think that this goes in that bucket of, like, this isn't technically a dream but it's dream-adjacent. And we see it in the pictures that she picks up. She goes into Dawn's room—
Jenny: Dude! Dude! She goes into Dawn's room and you see all of Dawn's pre-teen or early-teen girl accoutrement e  verywhere. And then it's like fading in between that and sort of like a storage—it just looks like they have a room in the house where they put everything that they don't know what to do with. And, you know, paintings that aren't on the wall and just stuff that's being stored. Clearly illustrating that Faith could have totally lived in that room. [Kristin laughs] It's not like the monks created that room. Faith could have lived there and been okay.
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: Another reason I'm mad at Dawn!
Kristin: Yeah, you thought—wait! Dawn had nothing to do with that! [laughs]
Jenny: Ah, well!
Kristin: You should be mad at Joyce and Buffy and everyone else.
Jenny: She made me certain. She made me certain.
Kristin: Right, so, okay. Good point, solid point. Because I think in the beginning, even you and I, Jenny, thought maybe when the monks created Dawn, that they also created the extra room in the Summers house. But you're right, this proves that they did not. That room was always there.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And Dawn is like, "who said you could come into my room?" And Buffy's like, "you're not my sister." And so—
Jenny: And we see Dawn, actual Dawn, fading in and out of existence also.
Kristin: Yeah. And she's like, "you stay away from my mother." She slams her into the door. And at this—
Jenny: Ahh!
Kristin: It's really rough, but I think it's especially rough because they—if you watch this episode in real time, they put a couple of breadcrumbs down to make you think that Dawn knows that she is something else, right?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: We saw her writing that diary entry a couple episodes ago. And then they designed her lines and her actions to kind of allow you as the viewer to believe that she's in on this. But when you watch it again and you know she's not, it's like, mega fucked up to know that she has no idea what's happening and her older sister has just gotten violent with her and is saying really horrible things to her.
Jenny: Yeah, it's bad. Then the phone rings and it's Giles and he's like, "The glow orb is a Dagon Sphere and it's used to ward off ancient primordial evil, that which cannot be named." And she's about—Buffy's about to tell Giles what happened. But then Dawn is over her shoulder like a frickin' horror movie. And a problem that I have—
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Is that Dawn acts like a total fucking twin out of The Shining for the rest of the episode. And there's no reason for it.
Kristin: I agree.
Jenny: Like the way that she talks to Joyce in a little while? Blegh-legh-legh.
Kristin: I agree. I think that they could have—because obviously, this is what I was just saying, right. That this is done intentionally, but I think that they could have had the viewer believe it without being so heavy handed about it. Because it isn't believable. Once you know that she didn't know, it's like—when she walks in with the fucking tea cup? It's like—
Jenny: Come on!
Kristin: Right, it's very—I think it's a little over the top. So I get what they were trying to do, but I agree with you. I think it's—there's not really a rhyme or reason of how she acts for the balance of this episode. Until we get to the end.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: So Spike! So this a fucking… one of the biggest fucking moments in Buffy history. Spike is—so the last time we saw Spike, he was having a sex dream about Buffy the vampire Slayer. And I'm sure that you, if you were watching this in real time, are like, "where the fuck—?" Like, 'cause that's how you ended it. And so we've gone all this way in this episode, we haven't seen Spike, and it's like, come on! And then there he is.
Jenny: Where. Is. Spike. Oh my god.
Kristin: Oh my god, and he fucking—so Buffy is like "Spike?" And he says—he turns around and he has a cigarette in his mouth. And we've seen Spike a million times, fucking puffing on his cigarette, talking Spike talk. He takes his cigarette out of his mouth, he puts it out, and he's like, "Hi Buffy." [both laugh]
Jenny: Sir. Get a hold of yourself.
Kristin: Which is… incredible. He has lost all of his cool, lost all of it.
Jenny: Gone. Gone.
Kristin: It has just drained out of his body. She's like, "yo, tell me why you're fucking here in my fucking yard. You've got five words or less."
Jenny: And he uses those words… he fills his quota in the following manner. [Clip from episode plays]
Spike: Out. For. A. Walk. Bitch.
Jenny: Do you remember when we were are the vampire ball last year? In London.
Kristin: I do.
Jenny: And we were—during the parts of the day where we would hang out at a table and people would bring stuff over for us to sign—how many people who had just been to James Marsters table, who had James write "Out. For. A. Walk. Bitch" on their James Marsters photo. [Kristin laughs] Like. So many.
Kristin: So many. He's a man who truly knows his audience. That scene where Spike is in his crypt, sort of posing for the camera, in the black and white.
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: James really also embodies that. He knows how to work a room, you know what I'm saying? [Jenny laughs] So Buffy is very frustrated. And—so we're not up to the Sexual Tension Awards yet, but Jenny and I had a bit of a debate about some of our contenders for the nominations. And I said, don't worry, Jenny, I will prove to you that there's sexual tension in this scene. And it isn't even—'cause I think it's already there by the fact that he put his cigarette out and said "hi Buffy" like a tiny little puppy dog. But I also think that it's there because after he says "Out. For. A. Walk. Bitch," she says, "No one has time for this, William. " William!
Jenny: Ooh! Okay, okay, okay! Okay!
Kristin: She calls him fucking William, Jenny. So.
Jenny: I missed it and you're right.
Kristin: I rest my case.
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: Thank you. We'll get to the full awards ceremony in a little bit, but that's my case for this part. He's like—also, she's like, "why are you in my yard though?" And he's like, "your house is between parts and other parts of this town!" [both laugh] And then—
Jenny: Meanwhile, you know Spike woke up from that dream and he was like, "okay. I need a plan of action. Now, previous suitors of Buffy… what have they done? Ah, yes! They've stood outside of her house looking up at her window."
Kristin: [laughs] "Yeah, let me do that. Instead of charcoal, I'll make cigarette ash."
Jenny: Exactly. He's just got the Angel playbook in his back pocket.
Kristin: Oh god. And then, you know, right before he leaves, he's like, "you need some satisfaction, besides shagging Captain Cardboard"—there with you, Spike—and then he just totally comes—he becomes completely discombobulated.
Jenny: Yeah, he unravels.
Kristin: He's like, "and I never really liked you anyway. And you have stupid hair!" [laughs]
Jenny: When we know from last episode—
Kristin: Uh-huh.
Jenny: That he thinks she has shampoo commercial hair.
Kristin: That's true. Getting your stories mixed, buddy! You're getting your stories mixed. And then Buffy sees that of course, he was not just smoking that one cigarette. There's a whole pile of butts.
Jenny: There are like 7,000 cigarette butts on the ground.
Kristin: Yeah, he's just been like, staring—watching Buffy trip fucking face from outside. [laughs]
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: Also, something that I never noticed before—which I'm sure all of you did. I just somehow didn't—is that as she leaves, Dawn's creepy fucking head is up in the screen window upstairs.
Jenny: Oh my god, I missed that. [visibly shakes self]
Kristin: Oh, it's really funny actually. Okay, so Buffy goes to the warehouse. She sees the hole in the wall. Joyce comes home, we talked about how Dawn is being fucking weird with her cup of tea. She's like, [sinister] "I made this for you, Mother."
Jenny: Why so creepy?
Kristin: But then, we go to the warehouse for real. Buffy's in. And she sees the monk, who's tied to the chair, and she's like, "you planted the Dagon Sphere. I know you did that for me." And the Beast is behind Buffy, doing a dance. And if you are familiar with GIFs of Buffy—
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: This is an infamous GIF of her in her little red dress with her perfect hair, bouncing back and forth from one foot to the other. But Buffy knows she's there!
Jenny: Yes! But it's not good enough. It doesn't really do her a whole lot of good to know that the Beast is there, because the Beast just kinda tosses her across the room. Right? Or no. The Beast punches her across the room.
Kristin: Yeah. Well, she—well, I mean, she does all of those things. But the first thing that she does is she fucking punches her and she flies across the room.
Jenny: It's bad.
Kristin: She cracks the wall.
Jenny: It's very bad.
Kristin: And we know immediately, like, this is—we've never seen—ahh, maybe we have? But very rarely do we see Buffy sort of fly through the air like she does after she's hit.
Jenny: Yeah. It's bad.
Kristin: So this is serious. Anya, back at the Magic Box, gets offered a job.
Jenny: She's got loads of input about how Giles needs to move forward with his business. And he says—
Kristin: And it's all good input.
Jenny: "Dear Lord, if I offer you a job, will you please stop talking to me right now?"
Kristin: [laughs] And she's so proud! "Okay, boss!"
Jenny: She's like, "Okay! Boss!" I love it!
Kristin: So meanwhile, the fight between Buffy and this unnameable Beast is continuing. And it's really quite a cool to fight to watch, because they are exactly the same size and they also have, it seems, the exact same capacity for quipping. Which we also don't get very often. We'll get that with a Spike and Buffy fight, like, we get that.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: They're fighting, they're kind of equally matched. They're not the same size, but almost. [laughs] And they both quip, you know, they're both being funny. And we get that here. She's like, "you hit me!" Then she, like, punches just a full piece of cement off of the wall with one tiny blond fist. [laughs]
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: Throws Buffy across the room. And then Buffy takes the monk and jumps through the window, reminiscent of when Faith and Buffy flew through the window together.
Jenny: Ahh, happier times.
Kristin: Yes. And the Beast would have probably easily caught them and captured them, but she broke a heel.
Jenny: Yo. Those heels… are tough… to watch. There's a closeup earlier in the episode when she's pacing in front of the camera, and it's like, at floor level. And watching her feet kind of shake a little bit—
Kristin: Wobble. Yeah.
Jenny: On those heels is very stressful.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: But she breaks her heel, she stops. She stomps. And basically her stomp brings the whole building down.
Kristin: Yeah, she breaks her heel and then her heel breaks the house. You know what I mean?
Jenny: Heh-heh-heh.
Kristin: Ha-ha-ha! So then we get probably the most important information that we've gotten this season, outside, between the monk and Buffy.
Jenny: Yes! The monk is like, "you must protect the Key. Many will die if you don't keep it safe. The Key is energy, it's a portal, it opens the door." Buffy's like, "The Dagon Sphere?" And he's like, "no, no, no, it's a whole other thing. We kept it safe but then the Abomination found us. We turned it into a human and sent it to you."
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And Buffy's like, "Dawn."
Kristin: Yeah. And she's like, "what about my memories?" And he's like, "we built them." And she's like—this is like… this is really mass—
Jenny: This is traumatic.
Kristin: It's like, massive trauma. And it's also like, a massive reflection of Buffy and what we often, I think, forget about Buffy's power and strength. Because it's… this monk is telling her that he has—he and his other monks have entirely violated, not only her home, but her body. They've put this human that—and we learn, and that's important too, that Dawn is human and helpless and has no idea. She's been also, I guess you could say—she's also been violated in the sense that she's been created and also has been given fake memories. Joyce's memories have been forced. Giles, every—literally everyone anyhow tied to this family has had their memories altered to accept Dawn.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And she—on the—sorry to use "heels" again since we just got real heely in the last conversation. But on the heels of this conversation, where she has quite literally just learned about this violation, this trauma, this—who—there's not even a word for it, that's how big it is.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: She goes home and she accepts Dawn at—like, she gives the love to Dawn that—basically the monk has told her, like, "she's innocent." And Buffy holds onto that, that's what she closes in her palm and holds onto when she goes back for this final scene. Which is chilling. It really—when I was watching it—and I think—I'm sure it's chilling for all of us to see some of the ways that Buffy shows her strength. And we all, I think, you know, use Buffy's strength as a metaphor for a lot of things and to reflect on our own abilities.
Jenny: Mm-hmm.
Kristin: But we're so deep, you and I, Jenny, in this experience. You know, you're writing a fucking song from her perspective every other week. We talk about this show constantly, we're watching the episodes many, many times. And so I think being that deep and really watching her do this in this last scene just shook me in a very powerful way, of like, really thinking about what she's doing in this moment.
Jenny: [exhales] Yeah, it is such a massive metabolization…
Kristin: Yeah!
Jenny: That she is able to execute. But I think probably some of it has to do with her, you know, just being ready to have the weight of the world on her shoulders. And some of it has to do with… she still has 13 years of memories—
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: 14 years of memories. Even if they're not real, they're still there. You know?
Kristin: Yeah. That's true, and they give a nod to that in this final scene. So after the monk—the monk dies, we should say. RIP monk.
Jenny: RIP monk.
Kristin: Yeah, and Buffy goes home and goes up to Dawn, who's like, "you hurt my arm, butthole." [laughs] "I have this theory. The theory is that I'm Mom's real daughter"—which is quite ironic—"and you were adopted from a bunch of baby howler monkeys." And Buffy says she's sorry and Dawn's not accepting it. And she's like, "you can't even accept an apology. You always do that, ever since—" and it's the first time that she accesses a memory and realizes it's a fake memory, which is really powerful. And Sarah Michelle Gellar, I mean, do we even need to say how incredible she is?
Jenny: Nah.
Kristin: Like, it's—
Jenny: So good!
Kristin: What a thing to play, right? It's so nuanced and small and it's so believable. You see it flash across her fucking eyes, and it's just really incredible. And… you know, they have this cute sisterly banter where—
Jenny: About the Bad Day Club and Dawn's the president and Buffy's like, "can I be the vice president?" and Dawn's like, "no, you're the janitor."
Kristin: Yeah, and then she—
Jenny: I actually don't know if Buffy says "can I be the vice president?" or some other office, but is relegated to the janitor position.
Kristin: Yeah. She's sort of playing with Dawn's hair, which is just a really big gesture of love. Like, whether it's sisterly love or not, it's just like, this is a very tender, caring action. And Dawn looks at her, as the last thing that we see in this scene, and she says, "What's wrong with Mom?" And Buffy says, "I don't know."
Jenny: Ugh!
Kristin: Which is also, like… right? We spend the episode sort of like, oh god, what's—they're gonna—we're gonna see the spell and oh my god, Dawn's the key, and da-da-da-da-da, that you could almost forget that the reason that they did this spell was to see what was harming Joyce. But now that it's revealed that nothing is harming Joyce, what does that mean? What is going on with Joyce? Are the headaches a result of the memories that are being forced on her? Like, they don't know and that's also super scary. So Buffy's come home with all of this and is holding it. I feel like the image of the end of this episode is Buffy sort of wrapping up the whole Summers home in her arms and just holding it, you know?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Which is really moving and powerful. Bah!
Jenny: Oof, you're telling me.
Kristin: You know what can lift the mood, Jenny, from this tender, loving, sad strength moment is… sex. What else. [SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays] Sexual tension award!
Jenny: Well, it's that magical time in the episode where we… nominate some people for Sexual Tension… and an award that goes along with it.
Kristin: [starts humming tune to Final Countdown] [Jenny laughs] Just kidding, just kidding, just kidding! Just kidding, that was last week's joke. [both laugh] Okay, Jenny, we got four. We got four sets for—and this was a hard one, I just wanna say that Jenny and I both really struggled with getting you good nominees. There was not a lot of overt sexual tension.
Jenny: No, that's not what this episode is about. But we found it where we could and here are your nominees! In the first slot, one pairing that you could vote for if you want to, is Spike and Buffy.
Kristin: Yeah—
Jenny: 'Cause Buffy's calling him William, and he's smoking a lot of cigarettes outside her house.
Kristin: I think I'm gonna put "Buffy and William" as the actual contender.
Jenny: Ha! Okay, beautiful. Okay. Next up, while we're talking about Buffy, why don't we talk about Buffy and Ben? Because… he's all in his scrubs, and she's all like, "I'm very, very, very strong" and he's all like, "I'm alarmed by that." But perhaps there's something more there—
Kristin: I'm alarmed and a little aroused.
Jenny: Exactly, exactly. Sometimes alarm can develop into something else over time. [Kristin laughs] So Ben and Buffy is in slot two. In slot three, we've got—are you ready? The most that anybody sweat in this or perhaps any episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, it's the Beast and the Key. The Beast wants the Key!
Kristin: Yes, and I'm sorry, I'm just gonna have to correct you. Angel sweat more than anyone will ever sweat—
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: In this entire series, combined. During the—
Jenny: You're right.
Kristin: Yes, you know what I'm—you all know what I'm talking about.
Jenny: When he fell naked from the sky?
Kristin: When he—oh! Yeah, but also, when he was so sick because Faith shot him with an arrow.
Jenny: Oh, yeah—okay. Never mind, Angel has—
Kristin: Collective amounts of sweat are massive from Angel, so.
Jenny: The Sweat-ual Tension Award— [Kristin laughs] definitely was awarded to Angel. And then—[laughs] in the fourth slot, wow! Uh, I just want her here, there and everywhere. It's Anya and money. Because we're starting to see—
Kristin: Oh. Probably—no spoilers, but probably not the last time that Anya and money will be a contender. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah, seems likely we might see more of that pairing. So if you'd like to be part of our beautiful democracy, please find the Sexual Tension Award for this episode on our Twitter, @BufferingCast. And cast your vote. Oh god.
Kristin: Ooh, cast and cast, you say!
Jenny: That's right, I said it.
Kristin: Yeah, the poll stays up for seven days and we recommend that you vote today, if this is the day that it goes live, because sometimes some of you email me and you're like, "I can't find the poll!" and I'm like, "well, you just have to dig back. You have to scroll back through all of the GIFs and all of the tweets and you have to find it." [both laugh] So if today is Wednesday, go now and cast your vote, @BufferingCast. [SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays] Sexual tension award!
Kristin: Great, great, great, great, great. Jenny, I believe that we have done yet another glorious episode of Buffering the Vampire Slayer.
Jenny: Truly, we have. It's over, there's just one thing left for us to do, which is to say who we are and where to find us.
Kristin: Who are you?
Jenny: Therefore! [gasps] Thank you for asking. I am Jenny Owen-Youngs and when I'm not watching Buffy and making this podcast, I am usually making another podcast, a newer podcast, called Veronica Mars Investigations with my buddy Helen Zaltzman. So you can listen to us talk about a different, petite protagonist who is fair of hair and keen of mind over on that pod. [Kristin laughs] And! The thing I do the most, the thing I do more than anything else is make hot, hot, hot, hot, hot jams. And I will tell you what, I have five of them in a body known as an EP coming out this very Friday. Friday, November 15, my EP, Night Shift, will be out on all digital platforms and available on vinyl and CD. And you can find it via my website, jennyowenyoungs.com. And you can find it by searching my name on your digital platform of choice. Please listen to some jams if you want to. Cool, that's me, okay. Oh, also, you can give me a shout on Twitter @JennyOwenYoungs, any time. Any old time, I'm there!
Kristin: So exciting. It's like, the monks took the Key energy and turned it into a human named Dawn and you took all your music energy and you turned it into an EP named Night Shift.
Jenny: Called Night Shift! That's right!
Kristin: Yeah! I—
Jenny: Who are you?
Kristin: [laughs] When I'm not using Buffy to make metaphors for Jenny's music, I am doing a lot of different things. Namely, I have a podcast that is short—a short run. It's a My So-Called Life podcast called The Boiler Room. I'm doing it with Joanna Robinson and we are 10 episodes into our 19-episode run, so we have passed the halfway mark. We're having so much fun. Joanna got the chance to talk to Devon Odessa, who plays Sharon. We have a couple of other really fun interviews coming up. It has been a great time. It's one of my favorite shows and if you've never seen it, you should. And also, as you probably know already, I do a lot of work with the LGBTQ community. I've been setting up Skype sessions with middle school and high school GSAs as a new initiative where I'm raising funds to offset the costs for them, so I get to offer them for free. It's been really fun and you can find out all about that and more on my website, kristinnoeline.com. That's K-R-I-S-T-I-N N-O-E-L-I-N-E.
Jenny: You did not say your name at the top of that. And it—while you were talking, I was like, thinking about that and how I might let you know at the end of it. And then all I could think of was, what if every time you said your name at the end of the episode, you were like, "my! Name! Is! Kriiiiiiiiiiistin!" [Kristin laughs] Just a thought. Just something to think about for the future. Cool. Buffinering the Vampire Slayer [laughs] is on Twitter, Instagram and Facebook, @BufferingCast. You can drop us an email at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com or leave us a voicemail at our Cleveland phone number, 216-30-BUFFY.
Kristin: It's true, and you can support us in many, many, many, many ways. Namely, go to our website, bufferingthevampireslayer.com. If you click on Patreon, you can join our Patreon family. We have so many things happening over there. We're just a little over a month away from doing a very fun Buffy Watch on December 21, which is gonna be super fun. Our prom tickets are also on sale for the public as of today, but if you were a patron, you would have had advanced ticketing. You would have been able to scoop up some of those VIP bundles. We give the songs to everybody in advance. What else do we do? So much. I do a comic book club, Jenny does concerts sometimes. We have a mailbag episode headed your way very soon. So it's a fun place to—
Jenny: It's hopping over there, in Patreon.
Kristin: Yeah, it's a fun place to support us and to join the family of Buffering. You can also go to our store and buy some of our sweet, sweet merchandise. 'Tis the season, whatever that means.
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: Bufferingthevampireslayer.com, just click on Shop. There's tons of stuff over there, it's very fun. And last but certainly not least, you can rate and review us on iTunes. It's so helpful. The more reviews we have, especially if they're good, the better that it is for people to find us and to know that we rule.
Jenny: Hell. Yeah. And till next time…
Jenny and Kristin: Awwwooooooooo!
Jenny: Rock! [Kristin laughs] [Jenny performing "No Place Like Home" off the album Songs from Season 5 by Buffering the Vampire Slayer. Lyrics here .]
Laura: Hey, you beautiful Scoobs. This is Laura Zak from Angel On Top.
Brittany: And I'm Brittany Ashley, also from Angel On Top.
Laura: For the last year or so, it has been our great honor to host a sister podcast to Buffering the Vampire Slayer in which we rewatch every episode of the Buffy spinoff, Angel, in tandem with the equivalent Buffy episodes.
Brittany: If you've not yet taken the journey from Sunnydale to Los Angeles to brood with us, and even if you've never watched an episode of Angel in your life, we're here to tell you that Season 2 is a magnificent time to join our family.
Laura: The second season of Angel is jam-packed with objectively good television. And you can expect more of your favorites like Cordelia coming into her own powers, Wesley battling inner and outer demons, Angel walking his cluttered path
to redemption, cameos from Buffy regulars like Faith, Spike and Willow. And-Brittany: More Darla, Darla, Darla! Plus, you'll get to know new characters who are some of the best in the entire Whedonverse, like Charles Gunn, defender of downtown LA's most vulnerable, and Lorn, the emotionally intelligent demon who runs a karaoke bar.
Laura: Our Angel On Top community is growing every day, and we'd love for you to join us for queer, feminist analysis, new jingles and every episode, a new poem from Angel's point of view.
Brittany: You can find Angel On Top on iTunes, Spotify and Google Play.
Laura: Until then, see you at the next crossover.
Brittany: Ooh!