Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 0.08: Wonder Woman!
Kristin: This episode of Buffering the Vampire Slayer is brought to you by Reality Bytes, a podcast about sex, love, relationships and dating in the digital age.
Jenny: Join host Courtney Kocak for interviews that explore sexuality, gender and interpersonal dynamics, as well as the undeniable impact of tech, with guests like Grace Helbig, Gaby Dunn, Jeffery Self, and us!
Kristin: Us! Yes, and look Gaby Dunn just got herself mentioned in an advert.
Jenny: Mmm-hmm.
Kristin: You know what I’m saying?
Jenny: It was only a matter of time.
Kristin: Right? We are on the podcast. We were on a recent episode, we talked all about our relationship, how we got together, how we fell in love, how we raise our baby, Buffering the Vampire Slayer. [Jenny laughs] And you can listen to us talk about all of that and more on Reality Bytes. That’s Bytes with a Y, always with a Y! Available on Apple Podcasts, Stitcher and Google Play.
NOTES: [Ad break chime]
Jenny: Hey everybody! Before we get started with today’s very special Wonder Woman episode…
Kristin: Wonder Woman episode?
Jenny: That’s right!
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: A Wonder Woman episode.
Kristin: I can’t imagine why two girls who talk about strong women who kick ass would ever do a special episode about... Wonder Woman.
Jenny: Difficult to say for sure what the connection is.
Kristin: It is. Anyhow…
Jenny: Nonetheless, before we get into that, we have a few things we need to tell you. First of all, the songs from Season 2 CDs are extremely nigh. All 20 songs are currently available in CD format, and we also made a limited run of the Season 1 CDs. They’re both available in our store, easily accessible via bufferingthevampireslayer.com.
Kristin: Yes, also, big news, we will be in New York City, Brooklyn specifically, at this year’s Flame Con.
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: August 19th and the 20th are the dates. If you are already are in New York City, you probably know what Flame Con is, but just in case you don’t. Flame Con is entering its third year. It is a two-day comics, arts, and entertainment expo showcasing creators and celebrities from all corners of LGBTQ geek fandom. Jenny and I are going to be there, we’re gonna be doing a live taping, we’re gonna be doing some fun music, Kate Leth is gonna be there, Heather Hogan is gonna be there. There is going to be so much magic and fun and we hope you can join us. More information at flamecon.org.
Jenny: Also, Buffering the Vampire Slayer now has– whaaat?!– an Instagram account. You can follow us @bufferingcast for pictures of Buffering related materials.
Kristin: [laughs] You’ll love it, it’s a good time over there.
Jenny: It is.
Kristin: People were very excited when we started an Instagram.
Jenny: Deep enthusiasm.
Kristin: People are also gonna be excited, I think, when we talk about this next thing. One of our listeners, Emily, created a sexual tension award bracket. It is a showdown to see who out of all of the sexual tension award winners from this season has the most sexual tension. There will be four rounds of voting and the voting has opened as of today. The link to that bracket for you to vote is on our Patreon page, you do not need to be a patron of ours to access it. Just go on over to our website bufferingthevampireslayer.com, click on Patreon and you will see the top post, or one of the most top posts will link you to that first bracket. Again, there will be four rounds of voting, so you wanna probably follow us on social media to get a head’s up when we open the other three rounds. And we will be just whittling it down. Who is it gonna be?
Jenny: I can’t wait to find out.
Kristin: I can’t wait either. Emily, thank you so much for sending this amazing creation our way.
Jenny: Hey, and be sure to tune in next week for our super mega extreme Season 2 wrap-up. We’ll be hearing from Joanna Robinson, Kate Leth, Gaby Dunn and most delightfully, many of you. So I’m looking forward to it, I hope you’re looking forward to it. Keep an eye on your feed, that’ll be next Wednesday with the Season 2 wrap-up. And now onto Wonder Woman. [Intro Music with Jenny singing over it "Wonder Woman, Wonder Woman! (whispers) Wonder Woman"]
Jenny: Hello! I am Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: And I am Kristin Russo and today we have a very special episode of Buffering the Vampire Slayer, don’t we, Jenny?
NOTES: [Wonder Woman theme plays]
Jenny: With a very special guest.
Kristin: Yes, whose name is Heather Hogan. You may remember Heather from "Killed By Death." She told a wonderful story about how she ran from the Dracula-dressed bus driver, and today, we have Heather here. She is senior editor at Autostraddle and I would like to call you, Heather Hogan, a Wonder Woman expert. Is that fair?
Jenny: A Wonder Woman scholar.
Kristin: Scholar, ooh, good one.
Heather: You can call me a Wonder Woman aficionado.
Jenny and Kristin: [laugh]
Kristin: Great.
Heather: I’m an eager fan of Wonder Woman.
Kristin: Yes, and we are so, so, so excited to– well, two things, we’re so excited to be talking about Wonder Woman and two, to have you as a part of this conversation. I could not think of a better human to be sitting here talking about all of the wonder of Wonder Woman with us.
Heather: Aww, thanks, guys. I’m so excited– I didn’t even sleep last night, I was so excited. I woke up at like 6am and I was like, come on, man, it’s Sunday, go back to sleep.
Kristin: I remember seeing a tweet of yours that was similar when you had seen Wonder Woman and you were writing a review for Autostraddle. And you were so excited that you couldn’t sleep ‘cause you knew that you just– you were gonna get to do this thing that you were so excited to do!
Heather: Yep, that’s exactly what it was– I made myself stay in bed till like
6am. I woke up at like 4:30 and I was like, Christmas morning when I was a little kid, and I was like, no, you should stay in bed till six. And then I did.
NOTES: [All laugh]
Kristin: For any of our listeners who don’t regularly read Autostraddle, first of all, you should. But second of all, if you’re interested in Wonder Woman, you should read Heather’s review of Wonder Woman. It is so wonderful and it’s like– I don’t know, you know when you read something or listen to something, experience something, and you know you’re listening to somebody who gets it and who is so emotionally invested in the thing that they’re writing about?
Jenny: Mm-hm.
Kristin: That’s what you delivered to us with your review.
Heather: Thank you, I think that’s what you deliver to fans of Buffy every week with this podcast.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: Aaah! Look at all this Hufflepuffian love, just happening all over the place.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: So, I mean, maybe the best place to start is just in that general place of, like, we’ve all seen the movie. So Heather, have you seen the movie more than one time?
Heather: I’ve seen it three times.
Kristin: Three times! We’ve seen it – as of last night, we’ve seen it twice.
Heather: Nice.
Kristin: So that’s three plus two, plus two. I don’t know if that counts as Hellmath…
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: But that would be seven different viewings of Wonder Woman in here, in this room, together.
Heather: That’s so good. So good.
Kristin: So, you went in and were you nervous? Were you like, oh no, I– ‘cause you’ve loved Wonder Woman forever, right?
Heather: Yeah, I– yes, I’ve always loved Wonder Woman. I’ve always loved superheroes, and Wonder Woman’s my all-time favorite. And I went into the theatre and I was so nervous that I couldn't even talk to the people I was with. [Kristin laughs] And I was– later, after the movie, the friends that I was with – Valerie, you know Valerie Anne, she’s an Autostraddle person. She was like, "you were literally sitting on the edge of your seat the entire time." And I think I kept scooting closer and closer because it kept getting so much better and better than I anticipated that I was like, when is it gonna blow it? When is it gonna blow it? And it never blew it!
Kristin: Awww. [laughs]
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: Yeah, and I think, probably, if we’re on a spectrum here. Heather, you’re at the far end of most experience with Wonder Woman before seeing the movie, and I am at the far other end. Jenny, you’re probably somewhere in the middle.
Jenny: I’m almost to your end.
Kristin: You’re almost to my end with Wonder Woman, really?
Jenny: Yeah, very little Wonder Woman experience.
Kristin: Yeah, because my experience of Wonder Woman is very– I was thinking about it today in the kitchen ‘cause I knew we were gonna be talking about it. And I was like, do I have any Wonder Woman memories? Like, I obviously know who Wonder Woman is, I don’t know that you can exist for very long, at least in the United States, without having run into Wonder Woman. But I remember that the first girl that I ever dated had a Wonder Woman poster in her bedroom, and I lived with her in Boston for a summer. So I thought, well, that’s a nice memory, right, that my very first lesbian relationship, my very first queer relationship was overseen by… [Kristin laughs] by Wonder Woman. [Jenny laughs]
Heather: Literally overseen.
Kristin: Literally, yeah, she was there for everything.
Heather: Was it like a Linda Carter TV poster or was it like an animated cartoon poster?
Kristin: Yeah, I think it was a cartoon. It was definitely not a person– it wasn’t Linda Carter so it had to be– I mean, but I remember it being a cartoon but more comic-y in nature than, like –
Heather: Right.
Kristin: You know, like, less rounded edges kind of a cartoony thing. But yeah, but I went into the movie. And I go into a lot of – like, with seeing DC and Marvel movies, I really have very little context of what the story was. So I went in the opposite, sort of being like, well, this sounds fun. [laughter] And I also was not disappointed, but I think I had a lot less riding on it. And Jenny, since now we’ve both talked a little bit about us, where were you on that line?
Jenny: Yeah, well, I grew up reading a lot of comics but I was always very skeptical of DC stuff, with the exception of Batman. Because I feel like Batman is just like– has this, like, horrible internal thing where he’s like, what am I? Am I good? Am I as evil as the evil that I’m trying to combat? I’m so conflicted and dark and aaaahhhh. And that really appealed to me as a young person. And I feel like the majority of other DC superheroes have this sort of apple-cheeked, you know, eyes to the heavens, starry– it just, it all feels so, like, positive? And that may be a total misconception on my part and shame on me for not digging deeper. But I never got drawn into anything DC except for Batman properties. Until now! Now everything is different. Now everything is completely different.
Heather: See, that’s what’s so great about this movie to me, is that Wonder Woman – when Wonder Woman began, she has the most feminist coming out situation. The first years of her book are – even if you go back now and read the Golden Age comics, they’re more feminist than anything that you will read. And they are so good and so strong and she’s– you know, her creator William – or Charles Marston, he really believed in the power of the matriarchy. Like, Wonder Woman, to him, was about bringing the matriarchy to the United States and then to the world. And he lived with his wife, who also had a lover who was a woman, and they helped him create the comic books. So she was very queer from the beginning, she was very feminist from the beginning. But over time, Wonder Woman really lost that– DC started making her into a fashion icon or you know like, a nurse or a mom or whatever. They just kept pushing whatever was happening in the country at the time, this sort of like retrograde feminism onto her. And so she wouldn’t have appealed to anyone that was our age because her– like, she was cool, but she wasn’t as cool as she was in the 40s and those comics weren’t available to us when we were kids. So I think what’s super neat about the movie is that it reestablishes Wonder Woman as the feminist hero that she was in the comic books in the very beginning. And so now, Jenny can be like, "now I’m interested!" [Jenny and Kristin laugh] in a way that you wouldn't have been before. And I think that’s really neat.
Kristin: Yeah, I wonder what that says too about, you know, if some of what happened with Wonder Woman historically was this sort of unfortunate mirroring of what people assumed women were doing at that time. What it says about where we’re at right now that this movie is just, like, smashing through everything with such ferocity. I mean, that’s pretty cool.
Heather: Yeah, absolutely.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: So, I wanna talk a little bit– well, first of all, we usually talk about Buffy. So let’s have a moment, shall we, with why –
Jenny: What do these two women have in common? I don’t get it.
Kristin: I don’t know what these... [laughs] I don’t know why we would be talking about a strong female character who smashes the patriarchy left and right. But there is a moment that I think we should talk about because we just– so, last week was "Becoming Part 2," the season finale of the second season and we– when we watched Wonder Woman, we were, like, oh my god, there is a moment of direct visual parallel where – the moment in that finale for Buffy is when she– Angel goes to–
Jenny: Disarms her. They’re sword fighting and he disarms her and she’s like, crouched down in a corner.
Kristin: Yes, and then she catches his sword in her hands and in that moment she says, "Me," right, I’m what I have, I’m strong enough to beat you and to beat this and it’s like, fuck yeah!
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: The best moment ever, and that exact visual happens for us in Wonder Woman, when she catches the sword of who she thinks is Aries, you know, we find– spoilers for Wonder Woman. [laughs]
Jenny: Oh yeah, we will be spoiling the entirety of Wonder Woman. Please go watch the movie.
Kristin: Yes, you cannot listen to this if you have not– I mean, you can, but you’ll hear all of the ins and out about it. But right when she catches the sword of the general. What’s his name?
Jenny: Ludendorff.
Kristin: Ludendorff, of course.
Jenny: Blegh!
Kristin: Ludendorff in her hands and pushes it back and Jenny and I both had a moment of like ‘oh my god!’ It’s exactly what happened in Buffy! But yeah, so I just think that obviously it wasn’t a big– it was a stone’s throw away for us to talk about Wonder Woman in the context of everything that we’re talking about with Buffy the Vampire Slayer.
Jenny: Definitely, yeah.
Heather: Yeah, I think that when I think back to you know Buffy’s always fighting with herself about whether or not she wants to be the chosen one, but I think when I’ve been re-watching season one along with you guys, there are moments where she’s, like as a child, imagining herself being a hero and all this stuff, and I’m like you know what you always wanted to be who you are, and even though she pushes back against it I think she really did always want it and so I can imagine a little Buffy reading Wonder Woman, watching Wonder Woman sort of internalizing that stuff and then…
Kristin: Oh my god, yes absolutely. And tiny– like I have– there’s so many things I wanna talk about I don’t even know where to start, but you know I have so many favorite moments of this strong female character that– and not just strong female character I should say strong female charact ers in Wonder Woman and all of these various moments. And one of them since you brought up young Buffy reading Wonder Woman which totally, right? That’s like fanfiction. [all laugh] Kristin’s favorite fanfiction. And a moment that I loved, especially when we were rewatching it, we went last night to rewatch the movie and the moment when tiny Diana– it’s the last scene that tiny Diana has and it’s when she’s standing and she’s looking at the God-Killer or what we think is the God-Killer, the sword, and she just has this look of resolve on her tiny face where she’s like I will g  et this, and I will do this thing and you know, you just see it in her, and you know that she’s right, and that all the things she imagines she will do with that sword she is going to do with that sword. And it just– Ahhh! It’s just so great. It’s just so greeeaaaat. Do you both have favorite female– I mean I have like more but favorite moments that are like strong women making you feel like you can as my sister said after she watched the movie ‘I feel like I could run twenty miles right now.’ [all laugh]
Heather: I mean, I think we could sit here for a minute in the first twenty minutes of the movie and just talk about that….
Jenny: [high pitched] Oh the Amazons training on the island?!
Heather: Yeah Jenny let’s– Jenny, tell us about the Amazons training on the island.
Jenny: Do you know that there are Amazons on an island and they’re all training and it fucking rules? [Kristin and Heather laugh] Ahhh! There are Amazons riding horses and leaning all the way out of the saddle to pick up a shield that they dropped at full gallop. There are Amazons doing backflips out of their saddles while firing arrows. There are Amazons doing so many things, so many things in every direction on and off horse. It is great. So much training, I want… that in my life.
Kristin: You wanna live there.
Jenny: That’s what I want.
Kristin: Yeah, I think that’s what we all want. At least everybody here.
NOTES: [laughs]
Heather: Like, can you think of any other movie ever that’s ever spent twenty minutes with an all women society of just kickass women.
Kristin: No.
Jenny: No, and I wanna talk about like, here we are three women, three queer women who spend a lot of time talking about this stuff and thinking about it through a particular lens, but I’ve had so many conversations with so many straight women, not that– whatever. Not that you have to be queer to get stuff but like… to have so many conversations with straight women who had the same sort of gut– weeping in the movie, like, I– A) I’m experiencing the raw power and just like profound intensity of seeing this amazing shit and I’m also having a simultaneous realization that I’ve never gotten to see this shit ever! This is for me and there’s never been fucking anything for me to this degree before ever. It’s mind boggling.
Kristin: Totally, the Twitter during– as Wonder Woman was out, just out people were seeing it. I just feel like all I kept seeing were tweets from people who were like no wonder why men take up so much space I’ve seen one movie where I was put as the centerpiece and I’m like everybody out of my fucking way. [all laugh] Which I loved because it was– you know for some people it was a direct realization like you, you know Heather, Jenny, myself. We all talk about this kind of like on a daily basis but for people like my sister who– you know my sister doesn’t talk about stuff like this. My sister isn’t rooted in a feminist, like an aware feminist place, so she didn’t have even the words for it but yet she knew that something had physically happened to her person by watching the movie which is incredible.
Heather: Yeah, I think it’s really interesting because all the queer women that I’ve talked to about Wonder Woman when you’re watching the first twenty minutes of the movie. The thing that everybody is sort of thinking is like ahh, yeah there it is, like that’s it, that’s the thing. And if you haven’t thought about that at all. If you don’t think about women only spaces and stuff like that and you’re a woman who’s just been introduced to it you’re just like what the fuck! You know like... [Jenny and Kristin laugh] It’s empowering in different ways but I think for queer women it’s empowering in a way that’s like yeah that’s it, that’s yes, that’s a thing.
Jenny: That’s what we’ve been talking about.
Heather: And maybe you’re not experiencing those– yeah exactly, that’s what we’re talking about but if you’re not experiencing those spaces I can imagine that it would just crack your brain wide open to see that and to be so moved by it and like how could you not be moved by it?
Kristin: Oh my god, seriously. Seriously. The moment that I think, and I talked about this a little bit on an episode of Getting in Bed with Kristin, but the moment that cracked my brain apart like you mentioned– I mean, listen I was there with you Jenny riding through the first twenty minutes of that movie in sheer glory but it was on the boat when, when they’re both on the boat and they’re sailing to London or whatever, and she’s talking about these volumes about sex and pleasure that she has read and she looks to him and she says ‘Mmm I don’t think you’d like them.’ And he’s like ‘No, no! Tell me!’ And she’s like ‘No, I don’t think you’re gonna be into it.’ And finally she says, ‘Yeah, I mean what she finally came to after writing all of these treatises was that men were necessary for procreation but when it came to pleasure not really so much.’ And I was just like– I’m sitting in a theater of so many people and thousands, millions of people are gonna watch this movie who have– this is a line in this movie?! I just couldn’t get over it, that this is something that I would write in a paper or an article that my community might read or whatever this is not something that you see or hear, at least so directly in, like, a Hollywood blockbuster action movie. So, I just can’t, I can’t get over it.
Heather: Did you have– did the people in your theatre have a reaction to it at all because every time I’ve seen it the people at my theater both men and women had very visceral reactions to that line.
Kristin: We have not– no, neither…
Jenny: No, no, no, I feel like the first time we saw it, we were in a more– like a crowd that was more leaning in our direction and then when we saw it last night we were, I feel like we were surrounded by a lot of dudes who were laughing at everything that we weren’t laughing at. And vice versa.
Kristin: Right, right, right.
Heather: Probably because they were so uncomfortable they didn’t know how…
Kristin: Totally.
Heather: They were like that teenage feeling of not knowing how to deal with it so you’re like [fake laughing]
Jenny: Right, right, right, right.
Kristin: Ah, totally but did you, Heather did you see a women only screening?
Heather: I didn’t see a women only screening and I– the theater that I went to, I went on opening night and it was mostly women, there were a couple of men in there but the response when she said women– men are not needed for pleasure– it was like a ripple around the room of people just, like, completely relaxing and sort of laughing and this woman right in front of me said ‘preach!’ and everybody laughed about that. [Jenny laughs] And then from that point on the men that I could see in my periphery were so uncomfortable for the rest of the movie. They were squirming around and checking their phones, and all of them left right after the thing, but I think what I love about that scene, and the whole twenty minutes leading up to that scene, is that it really does capture the essence of the original comic books because, you know like, they’re training– they don’t even wanna fight, but they’re training because they know that they have to fight, and they have to be ready and they believe in themselves. And it’s not because they have bloodlust, and it’s not because they wanna hurt each other they just know they need to be ready for this thing. It’s just part of their life. And in the same way, like, being queer on the island is part of their life, and so the idea that men are needed for pleasure is hilarious to them. But I never expected that to come out of anybody’s mouth.
Kristin: Right?! [Jenny laughs]
Heather: Wonder Woman’s mouth like in the movie. It’s one of those things that everybody sort of hints and winks at in the comics over the years but to have Wonder Woman just come out and say it in her very first movie is– was shocking and pretty great.
Jenny: Amazing.
Kristin: Totally. And I think still and what’s incredible is– ‘cause I remember, I wish I had saved all of these tweets I had seen that stuck with me so much, but I remember seeing somebody, maybe even you retweeted it Heather, who you know there was some review done somewhere where this dude had reviewed the film and referred to the island as a sexless island.
Heather: Right, right. Yeah.
NOTES: [all laugh]
Kristin: And somebody retweeted it and was like does somebody wanna tell this guy or like… [all laugh] It’s just you know, but yeah. That’s definitely– that was my favorite moment of all.
Jenny: Yeah, it’s really good.
Heather: I think the thing that’s so great about it is, like, the men in my theater who got so uncomfortable because it hadn’t occurred to them at all that the women would be having sex with each other on the island, and that there would be women having sex that was not intended for the male gaze in any way, and so that startling realization of there’s pleasure and power happening here that has nothing to do with me or for me I think, umm, it’s probably… a little bit… a little bit of a… shift for men.
Kristin: Hell yeah. Maybe new, something new. [laughs] Oh man. Oh man, oh man, oh man.
Jenny: Wow.
NOTES: [ad break music starts]
Kristin: Today’s episode is brought to you by Care Of, vitamins and supplements are one of the best most basic ways to ensure you’re meeting your bodies nutrition needs. I’m a huge fan of vitamins, I take them every day but it can be really hard to figure out which ones to take especially when you’re in the drug store and you’re looking through the one million bottles of vitamins that are there. And there’s like B12 and B47 and B162! And you’re like which B is for me? So, Care Of came along and they started this website where you can go and you answer a few brief questions about who you are, what your life is like, what needs you have, what needs you don’t have and then they’re like blamo here’s some vitamin recommendations for you. Do you want some of ‘em? All of ‘em? And then they send them to you monthly in a little pack, you choose what you want. It totally rules, it’s a really simple process. It just takes a few minutes. Then they send you your supplements in personalized daily packs which are super convenient. Best of all they only use the best ingredients in their vitamins and supplements, and you actually save money because getting it through Care Of it’s a lot cheaper than getting it from the drugstore, for sure, but even cheaper than getting it online in a lot of other places so I highly recommend them. All you need to do is go to takecareof.com now and you can get your personalized recommendation. Then you can use our code Buffering and get 50% off of your first order which it totally bananas, that’s half! 50% equals half guys. Takecareof.com offer code Buffering for 50% off your first order.
Jenny: Today’s show is also brought to you by ModCloth where fresh floral patterns and daring designs flourish. ModCloth, have you heard of it? If you haven’t you need to check it out. It’s your go to spot for fashion that is as unique as you, you beautiful flower you. It provides an exciting and engaging online shopping experience for everyone in search of vintage women’s fashions with fabulous flair. That’s right, I said fabulous flair. They’ve got cute outfits, they’ve got quirky prints, they’ve got classic silhouettes. They’ve got something for everyone and speaking of everyone ModCloth’s exclusive line of apparel comes in a full size range from extra extra small to 4X because they believe that fashion is for every body, size, and shape. And that’s also what we believe. So, snag all your summer essentials with our exclusive deal. Shop now at modcloth.com and enter promo code Buffy at checkout to get 30% off your order of $100 or more. That’s modcloth.com m-o-d-c-l-o-t-h.com, promo code Buffy for 30% off your order of $100 or more. Make everyday extraordinary at modcloth.
NOTES: [ad break music stops]
Kristin: So did you both have– I mean I know it’s hard, I’m usually not a picker of favorites, but do you have favorite moments from the movie?
Heather: I mean for me it’s been like gift beyond measure now but Robin Wright jumping over that rock and flipping around with the three arrows...
Jenny: Hell yes!
Heather: That is like an advanced level video game move [Kristin laughs] and to see a person pulling that off in a movie and also because once the men started arriving on the island I just wanted them gone so fast you know, I just wanted them to all die immediately and then to see her so powerful in that way I just– it was just so good.
Kristin: Oh it’s a beautiful, right. And even that move is like, she’s doing it and she’s– the power is given to her sort of with other women supporting her.
Heather: Exactly, yes! Exactly.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Heather: And I also loved the sort of consistency with which Diana refused to sit out of meetings where men were. They were like this isn’t a place for a woman and she was just so bamboozled like–
Jenny: Hell yeah.
Heather: Why the hell is this not a place for a woman because she doesn’t come from a world with any sort of patriarchal structure so the idea that women would be kept out of the most important decisions, especially decisions to go to war, she’s like no, this is insane, I’m obviously not gonna sit out here and not do anything about it, or I’m not gonna keep my mouth shut, you know?
Kristin: Yes. Like a sneak peak at what it would look like to have somebody not affected by the patriarchy.
Heather: Exactly, exactly, yes, yes, yes. That’s it, exactly. I also obviously love it very much when they’re in no man’s land and she comes out of the bunker in her full Wonder Woman suit for the first time.
Jenny: Yesssss!
Kristin: Yes! The moment too, because that moment that you just talked about where she– especially the one where she just rails the general and just like pushes him aside and is like no how dare you, who do you think you are?
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: Ah! So great. But then since you just talked about the first moment when she is in her outfit, I also– both times we watched it was really moved by that moment when you hear the Wonder Woman theme.
Heather: Right.
Kristin: ‘Cause it’s so specific in the movie and I feel like it comes in this place where she is finally reconciling who she is versus where she is. You know?
Heather: Right, yeah and I think any time that you have an origin story for a superhero in a movie, and you show them in their costume for the first time. It’s always like yeah, okay fine, they’re spider man like you know. But seeing her in her costume for the first time on the screen it just felt like such a huge victory that we’ve been waiting on for so, so, so, so long and it was just... I was so glad that everything that came after that was slow motion ‘cause I needed a minute.
Jenny: Yeaaaahh.
Kristin: Yes, yes. Ugh! Yes, so so much. Okay so first of all before– ‘cause there’s so much more, we have so much more to talk about but I just really wanna make sure that our listeners get to hear some of the detail of your history with Wonder Woman, Heather, and part of that for me is the story that you recently told me about meeting a certain somebody.
Heather: Oh! I did.
Kristin: So do you wanna share that with us?
Heather: Yes! So I grew up on superheroes and I think a lot of queer people grow up on superheroes. I mean, a lot of people in general grew up on superheroes, but I think a lot of queer people grow up on superheroes because even if you don’t have a language for what’s going on with you as a child, I think there’s a recognition that there’s something that’s different about you that you have to keep hidden, and so I think that watching superheroes navigate dual identities, and you know what parts will their family hate them for, and what parts can they be out in public. Like all those sorts of things I think really resonate with queer people and so the first time I saw Batman and it was Batman 1966 Adam West, Burt Ward that TV show. I just immediately latched onto it, and I would watch it all the time. And I started reading Batman comic books, and my dad was amazing because we– I grew up in very, very rural Georgia there weren’t a lot of great examples of shining feminism where I grew up like it’s very rural. But my dad was like– he really wanted to get me, any time I was in this– a boy thing, he wanted me to have that but with a female person to look up to. So he got– started digging around at the flea market and finding all these old Wonder Woman comic books. He found an old VHS tape with three episodes of the Linda Carter Wonder Woman series.
Jenny: Mister Hogan!
Heather: Just bits and pieces that he was pulling together because by that time, when I was a kid Wonder Woman was a fashion icon, she had given up her super powers and she was just in Paris being a fashionista or whatever in the modern comic books. So my dad was just digging around, there was no Ebay, you know there was no Netflix, so everything that he was finding and he traveled a lot around the country. So whatever city he was in he would hit up comic books stores and flea markets, and he would just piece together all of these little things for me. So it was just such a treasure to me, and I just loved Wonder Woman so much, and Linda Carter became just my absolute icon and you know when you’re queer, and we always talk about when you see a strong female character and you’re like I don’t know if I wanna be her or if I wanna make out with her. [Jenny and Kristin laugh] I just wanted Wonder Woman to be my mom.
Kristin: Yes.
Heather: I didn’t, I wasn’t, I didn’t relate to her in the way that I– because she’s so confident and she’s so unapologetic and I didn’t relate to that at all, and she was just so powerful in a way that I didn’t recognize yet in myself. So, anyway, a couple years ago I was at the GLAAD Awards, the Gay and Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation, working the red carpet for Autostraddle, and Linda Carter was the last person to come down the red carpet, and we stopped, and she stopped and talked for just a second, and then I, I was trying to be super professional about it. And so I finished my interview and then I turned around and I just, my face got really red, and knew that I was about to start crying and the person who was with me just pulled out her camera and held up to take a picture, and as she started to take a picture, Linda Carter stuck her head over my shoulder and just sort-of leaned her head on my shoulder. So, the person took a picture of us together, and then she just grabbed both of my hands in her hands and she said, ‘I just want you to know that Jesus loves you and the Republican party can go fuck itself.’ [Kristin laughs]
Jenny: Aaaoooaah!
Kristin: Like, could there be a better, there’s just not a better…
Jenny: There’s no better story.
Kristin: No, there’s no…
Heather: And you know like I, I know she’s not Wonder Woman but what she…
Jenny: But like isn’t she?
Kristin: Right. Maybe.
Heather: What she represented to me as a little closeted kid in a Baptist church in the south and then to be an adult covering these gay awards and having her just sort of speak to the child in me in that way was just, it was just [overwhelmed sigh]
Kristin: Yeah, Jesus, I can’t, I just it’s like my favorite, it’s my favorite story and we’ll put, if it’s alright with you Heather, we’ll share that photo of you and Linda Carter.
Heather: Oh yeah, absolutely.
Kristin: So that our listeners can see that, we’ll put it up on our socials but we’ll also put it up on our Patreon for everybody to see, you don’t have to be a patron to see it.
Heather: Awesome.
Kristin: Ugh, it’s just so moving and wonderful. Okay, so, back into the movie shall we go?
Jenny: Could I just say one more thing about, like, women?
Heather: Yes.
Kristin: No, I don’t think this is the place for it Jenny.
Jenny: Hmmm. I just want to say I love Wonder Woman. She’s doing a great job. She is very powerful, it’s really exciting, but also, the central superhero of any superhero movie is not the only person and also, kind of, not the only slot, like these archetypal comic book movie slots that we see filled, right? Obviously, you have the supervillian and you have the sidekick, or sidekicks, whatever and at least one of every one of those slots is filled by a woman who’s doing an amazing job. We have Etta Candy, totally crushing it. Being hilarious, even holding a dude at swordpoint, I mean just the way that she carries the sword and shield around is pretty amazing. We have Dr. Poison who is alternately referred to as Dr. Muro and Dr. Maru. I think they settled on a pronunciation at a [Heather laughs] certain point in filming and then they just were shooting out of sequence so it’s inconsistent throughout the movie, but I fucking, I love her, and I don’t normally go in– like she’s pretty cartoony as villains go and there’s a moment where she looks directly into the camera and is like, ‘It’s going to be terrible. Wink.’ Usually, I can’t get on board for that over-the-top cartoony villain, but I feel like she just does such an amazing job and I love seeing… like I just love seeing a supervillainess– a woman supervillain who is, I guess maybe she’s not a supervillain, she’s just a villain.
Heather: She’s a supervillain for sure.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Well, does the super prefix imply…
Kristin: Oh that she has powers?
Jenny: That she has abilities, she’s brilliant–
Heather: Ahhh, I see.
Jenny: She’s a brilliant chemist. So she’s a brilliant scientist and that’s fucking awesome to see in a movie that’s taking place during World War I. Amazing, love it. I also love the look of her face plates.
Kristin: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Jenny: Like such an amazing, just such great design
Kristin: And it’s credit too to that the little, the one millimeter of her mouth that you can see that the acting that happens with that tiny bit of her fucking mouth is incredible.
Heather: Yeah, it is.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: Just would like to say I, like, paid special attention to her this second viewing. And she’s incredible.
Heather: Um, can I talk about Etta Candy again for a second?
Kristin: Oh yeah!
Jenny: Please.
Heather: So Etta Candy is one of my favorite parts of this movie but also Etta Candy in the Wonder Woman comic books is absolutely amazing and… [Jenny laughs] she drove conservatives… out of their minds when she was around in the 50s because Wonder Woman was really, really feminist, but she was also very traditionally attractive, and she also had a boyfriend that was constantly chasing her around, and even though it was sort of a reverse damsel in distress story like there was still a man involved in her life. But Etta Candy never had a man, and never had a boyfriend and as Wonder Woman leaves Themyscira and comes to the land of men and is surrounded by more men. Etta Candy, who’s always been here starts creating her own girl gang and they’re called the Holliday Girls.
Jenny: What.
Kristin: Whaaaat?
Heather: Yeah, Etta Candy and the Holliday Girls, they’re like this group of, they just follow Wonder Woman around. They show up where she is sometimes and none of them are super thin and they’re all very brash and unapologetic, and they say really bold, sexy things. So in 1954 the comics code authority laid down all these laws about what comic books could and couldn’t be. And one of the things that drove them was this book called Seduction of the Innocent about how comic books are making children into juvenile delinquents, and the guy who wrote the book
hated Etta Candy so bad and he wrote in the book: "The homosexual connotation of the Wonder Woman type is psychologically unmistakable. Her followers are the Holliday Girls, the Holliday Girls. the Holliday Girls. That means the gay party girls, the gay girls." [Jenny and Kristin laugh] Wonder Woman even refers to them as my girls and like it was…
Kristin: Oh my god.
Heather: So he’s hysterical. He is hysterical about the Holliday Girls, and he’s hysterical about Etta Candy. So she’s great in this movie and she’s very in character for the comic books, but as a whole these characters throughout the comic books are just top notch. They are so good.
Kristin: Oh my god. Remember when he said the Holliday Girls three times because he could not get over it.
Heather: He couldn’t get it together. He said it twice in lower case and then he says it in all caps HOLLIDAY GIRLS!
Kristin: [laughs] Oh that’s phenomenal, wow. That is– yeah ‘cause this was my introduction and yours too Jenny?
Jenny: Mm-hm.
Kristin: To Etta Candy and I latched onto her immediately too as a person who was a personal assistant for almost a decade of my life, and I thought well this is interesting because obviously the power of Wonder Woman is kind of laid out bare for us. Right, like, she’s incredibly strong, she heals quick, blah, blah, blah. We know what Wonder Woman has inside of her and it’s remarkable. But for Etta Candy I was like, now this is a character I can relate to because this girl is carrying so much right? Her work is supporting all of these things that are happening and she’s kind of– she’s not in the background in the film which is rad but in her– certainly in her working life she’s more in the background, and as somebody who had supported a very strong and powerful and rich man in all of his successes I knew that if I were to walk out the front door that it would just all fall to the ground. [Jenny laughs]
Heather: Right, right.
Kristin: And so I thought it was an extra cool insight into the many powers that women can hold. And the way that they can exist in the world. Also, I just love her.
Jenny: Also, oh my god, oh my god. I love that– I love the decision to include a clothes shopping outfit try-on montage.
Kristin: Yes.
Heather: It’s so good!
Jenny: And totally inverting it, with the [laughs] ‘how do women here, like what do women here wear into battle?’ [Kristin laughs] And then Etta Candy has this immediate awesome response where she’s like, what the fuck did she say? We use our…
Kristin: Oh our intellect or our principle!
Jenny: Yes!
Kirstin: That’s what she says, that’s how we’re going to get the vote.
Jenny: Right, right, right. And she’s doing all of these kicks and ripping the stuff that she’s trying on and then she justs lands on essentially what Steve’s wearing slash a Carmen Sandiego costume. And then the moment…
Heather: Yes, yes, yes.
Jenny: And then that quintessential movie moment where somebody’s like ah, what are we gonna do with this beautiful woman, let’s put glasses on her. So she’ll be less distracting.
Kristin: Called out by Etta Candy in three seconds flat.
Jenny: Yeah, so good.
Heather: Yeah, that’s so– like wonder woman– this movie’s so great about reversing things. What you just said Jenny, Steve Trevor is a reverse because he’s the damsel in distress in this movie. And this is a makeover scene that’s a reverse because you’re putting more clothes onto her, and still she’s incredibly competent and sexy. It doesn’t do anything to diminish either one of those things.
Jenny: Dude, I loved reading your piece, the section that you wrote in your piece on Autostraddle about how Steve Trevor is this sort of like– he’s not exactly bumbling, but he’s always in trouble, and she’s always saving his ass. And yet he still is constantly like you can’t go to the gala it’s too dangerous.
Heather: Right! Like you would have been dead ten minutes into this movie if it weren’t for her Steve.
Jenny: Seriously.
Kristin: Yeah, he does a pretty good job of carrying that role and he’s certainly not self aware 100%.
Jenny: But he’s like semi-self aware. I think Chris Pine does a great job of being semi-self aware, likable but also like holy– not measuring up you know even a fraction to the power of the woman he’s alongside.
Kristin: The whole like– you know where I’m from I’m not average. That whole line of his, that was very…
Jenny: ‘You need to possess a certain vigor’
Kristin: [laughs] I just– I felt it was done in a way that was really vulnerable where he was very aware that his– how people were measured where he was from was totally not applicable, and then also completely called into question by the fact that it wasn’t applicable.
Jenny: Right. Right.
Kristin: I just thought that that was really interesting and this is a great– I mean I’m glad we got here because I do think that one of the biggest things that I’ve heard that are like ‘I don’t know’ about the movie was that there was a love interest, right? That Chris Pine’s character, I know that probably for all of us the moment that the plane crashed through we were like nooooo! [all laugh] No, not a man!
Jenny: Stay on the island, stay on the island.
Kristin: But I’m curious Heather because we have not had a conversation about this as to what your thoughts are about that there was a love interest. That Chis Pine is in this movie and that, you know, he does play this perhaps reversed role but that he’s there, you know.
Heather: Yeah, I mean I think the first thing is that you’re not gonna get a Hollywood blockbuster made without a man in it. You’re not gonna get an origin story without a love interest, and you’re certainly not gonna get a huge story like Wonder Woman that people have been waiting for forever and ever and ever without a man in it. It’s just not gonna happen, it’s like for sure not gonna happen. But I think that what’s interesting about his character is that he’s competent in the way that he’s competent but she is clearly better than him in every single way. [Jenny laughs] And it’s not– like there’s no competition, nobody walks out of there being like well, Steve was better at whatever, he wasn't. She was better at all of it.
Kristin: Mm-hm.
Jenny: Yes.
Heather: She sort of perpetually continued to say to save his life, but what I actually thought was very interesting is I know a lot of people didn’t like the love story, and I know that they didn’t like sort of at the end of the movie where she’s like doing what she’s doing for love, but I think that it’s through Steve Trevor that she falls in love with humanity. I don’t come away from that being like well, he was her one true love, like he was a gateway to her into the psyche of what humans in the man’s world live like. And I think that she felt… unlike her mom and the other women on Themyscira I think that she felt an affection for them, and I think she felt responsibility for them and an empathy for them. And she fell in love with them even though they have this great capacity for evil, and she’s willing to serve and sacrifice for them so I think that Chris Pine is just a part of that. I think he’s just sort of the lightning rod for that larger thing of why would she stay behind? Why would she give up so much and why would she continue to fight. Because she does see– because even Steve himself, he changes throughout the movie to become more like her and becoming like her is how he saves what he saves at the end of the movie, but if he had been who he was at the beginning he wouldn’t have done that, you know? And I thought Chris Pine was perfect casting in the film. I would obviously love to watch an all women Wonder Woman movie but…
Jenny: But if there has to be a man…
Heather: For what it was and for what it had to be I thought it was handled really elegantly.
Kristin: Yeah, I agree.
Jenny: Also! Oh, sorry.
Kristin: No, no go ahead. Also what?
Jenny: Also I think it’s like, I mean I don’t think it would be in the realm of reality to get a scene you know of Amazons bathing naked in a waterfall pool together with Patty Jenkins directing, but there’s always the possibility that something like that could get crammed in because of studio demands or whatever. And it doesn’t happen, thank you universe. And the only naked person we ever see…
Kristin: Yeah.
Heather: Yep!
Jenny: Is Steve Trevor being gazed upon. The female gaze, the purest of all possible female gazes. I suppose.
Kristin: Yeah, I agree and Heather I got body chills when you were talking about how Steve Trevor in your opinion is the gateway for her to this journey that she goes on. That her true origin story of what is going to keep her here. She has to see something in humanity that is so powerful, and yes it came through a love story, but I agree with you one million percent that I didn’t leave feeling like oh no, they’re one true love is gone. It was sort of like, wow her seeing what a human being, and we talk about this a lot with Buffy. That Buffy has the superpowers but that the scoobies occupy this space where they don’t have super powers and they’re continually risking life and limb to save the world. And so that’s exactly what– I mean she has her own gang of scoobies in this movie. Steve Trevor is certainly also a love interest, but seeing him as he gets on that plane to sacrifice his own life to save the lives of thousands is a moment for her that she needs to stay there and seeing, I think also on top of that seeing the other characters, Sammy and Chief and the…
Jenny: Charlie.
Kristin: Charlie, seeing what they sacrifice and what they give up to also save lives and save the world in this instance is the only thing that’s gonna keep Wonder Woman. That’s the only thing that’s gonna make Wonder Woman, right?
Heather: Right, exactly these guys are all out for themselves in the beginning. Even though they’re heroes they’re all out for themselves and she’s never out for herself. And by the end of the movie they’re all in it together for something so much bigger and I think–
Jenny: Because of her.
Heather: Yeah, exactly when Steve’s flying off and he starts to cry really happy tears at the end, I think it’s a beautiful moment because it’s like he gets it. All of this stuff he thought she was backwards, and he thought she was weird, and he thought all of this stuff about her that she didn’t get it. But in that moment he’s like no, right this is it, this is it. This is the best of humanity, what I’m doing right now is the best of humanity and he gets it because she’s demonstrated it for him.
Kristin: Yeah, and I think for me as a person that storyline, that emotional arc and I think what Wonder Woman exists to exemplify is gut wrenching to me especially where we are in our world right now because… I had so much identification with the process of coming into something bright-eyed. You know she kind of comes into it like humans are good, and then she sees all of this horrible, horrible, horrible stuff. Truly atrocious stuff and the fact that her character exists to say but there is still good is especially in this moment in time for me an emotional– I could just cry for like four days just thinking about that because it’s something that I struggle with on a daily basis of looking around at all the bad, and being like, but how can there be good if all of this bad exists, you know?
Heather: Right, and I think that’s why having this set in World War I is an especially inspired choice because her idea of what she has to do to save the world is so simple when she leaves the island. She’s like all I gotta do is go kill the god of war, and then these humans will stop devouring themselves, you know? And when we talk about movies in World War II it’s like okay we’ll just kill the Nazis and that’s that, it’ll be done. But World War I is such a complicated historical moment where no one– I mean we lost an entire generation of men and no one really understood why they were fighting or what they were fighting for and they were just getting mowed down by machine guns that no one had ever fought in battle with then. Even after the end of it, watching something about World War I there’s no real satisfaction in the ending because you know in your heart in twenty years there’s another World War coming. And so I think that there’s a beautiful thing about throwing her into this really messy war where there’s… complicated good guys and bad guys and it’s very– There’s humanity even in the people that you think you’re fighting against and it’s really, really messy. And even after you win there’s another onslaught of horribleness coming and still, even still, even in all that muck to be able to find something redeeming that powers your ability to fight is, I don’t know if there’s a better time in the world than right now to have that message.
Kristin: Totally, also if we took just that clip of what you said and people tuned in to just that they would 100% think we were talking about Buffy the Vampire Slayer.
Heather: Absolutely, you’re totally right.
Kristin: Right, it’s like ‘even the bad guys are complicated and nuanced and aren't’ 100% bad. That’s like everything– Also I wanna say, I heard this interview with Patty Jenkins that I cannot find. It’s driving me nuts, but in the interview she talked a little bit about the fact that World War I– that she rooted this in World War I, and that picture putting Wonder Woman in World War I posits her before any of the other origin stories. That Wonder Woman becomes the first of the superheroes even though technically I guess she’s a god but whatever. And so I don’t even have the ability to fact check– I haven’t fact checked that but since it came out of Patty Jenkins mouth I’m gonna believe it to be true. But Heather do you know anything about that– have you heard that?
Heather: Yeah, I did hear her say that and I think in terms of what’s the modern Marvel and DC cinematic universes that’s absolutely correct. Most of those start– even if the person predates World War II they’re superhero-ness doesn’t really start until World War II. And that makes sense ‘cause Wonder Woman does found the Justice League in the comic books so it makes sense then that she would found it in the movies as well.
Kristin: Nice.
Jenny: I have some questions. Heather, if you could entertain them I would appreciate it.
Heather: Sure.
Jenny: In terms of Greek or Roman mythology Diana, that Diana, like Artemis…
Heather: Right.
Jenny: How much in the world of the comics– how much overlap or like how much agreement is there between traditional mythology and the Wonder Woman origin story?
Heather: Wonder Woman has been through so many different iterations in the comic books. Some under her own comic book name like Wonder Woman, some in sensation comics, some in Justice League comics, and basically every time that a new writing team comes on board they determine how much of classic Greek mythology is going to make it into the story. And if you’re really interested in Greek mythology and how that relates to Wonder Woman where you can start is the new 52 Wonder Woman series, which reboots Wonder Woman from the beginning, and it really dives in deep with Greek mythology, and at the same time Batwoman starts off with the new 52, and she has this great deep dive into Greek mythology, and then at issue 12 Wonder Woman and Batwoman meet for the first time.
Jenny: Oh my god! And then accidentally kiss! [Heather laughs]
Heather: And it’s really beautiful, it’s the comic books where they’re together, there’s three where they’re together inside the batwoman comics. Three of my all time favorite comic books. But I will give you a list that you can put wherever you want.
Kristin: Yesssss.
Jenny: Yeah, we’ll include that list in the show notes for anybody who wants to do additional reading.
Kristin: Absolutely. Awesome.
Heather: Yep. That’s a good one.
Kristin: Ohh, Heather you know so many things, you’re head is full of wonderment. [all laugh] What else do we have to talk about? I mean you know we could– I know that the three of us could talk about this for hours, and hours, and hours, but I want to at least make sure that we all get to say the things that are highest on our minds. A scene that we didn’t talk about is the scene right after the bell tower implodes and the town has this moment of peace. And Heather, it kind of [sighs] it’s like you know you talked about World War I ending, and you know World War II is coming. There’s this little micro version of this here where you know on second viewing– you know that this town is gonna get this one moment, and that’s all they’re gonna get. And this scene where they’re just dancing, and they’re having a beer, and it’s snowing, and she says to Steve, like, ‘is this what people do when there’s not war?’ Just guts me even just saying out loud right now, it guts me because people– because it’s another moment where she’s seeing the beauty of humanity, of these small things that we appreciate, and that of course for many of us we don’t appreciate in the moment until we realize oh shit we should appreciate this thing that we have. I just yeah. [sighs]
Heather: But don’t you feel that also on a micro level in your own life right now? Don’t you feel like even with you and Jenny on vacation or whatever last week, don’t you feel like what we’re doing right now as queer woman is constantly fighting, constantly, constantly getting just bombarded by the news, and by you know Trump administration all day every day. So any moment that you can have to just be with these people that you love, and just have a moment with them. There is something extraordinarily powerful about that.
Kristin: Yeah, absolutely. And I think we all come to the movie with different experiences for sure, but yeah I think we talked about this already, but contextually being a queer woman right now is for many of us just an endless fight, right? We are just fighting and fighting and fighting and looking for the humanity and looking and saying is it here? Is it really here? And am I a fool for thinking it’s here? And I don’t know. That’s something that I go back and forth with a lot, so yes, 100% these moments are moments that I hold close to me. And you know to bring it back to Buffy one more time perhaps that’s, I think, why I hold Buffy so close to me too is because that’s a question that she is always grappling with too. Of like what– is there good? Is there actually good? Is what I’m doing– does this fight that I am sacrificing so much for, that I’m leaving– like for Wonder Woman, I’m leaving the island.
Heather: Right.
Kristin: For fucks sake! Who would ever wanna leeeave the island!
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah.
Kristin: You know, I’m leaving my mother, I’m leaving my family. For Buffy sacrificing having a normal relationship, a normal anything to lift up this world and looking at that world, and saying but what is it that I’m even lifting up and keeping that fight, which is hard to do.
Heather: Yeah, Buffy’s a great example of a person who even the best people around her she sees the darkness in them. And she still continues to fight for them and she still continues to fight for the darkness even in humanity for the light that she sees is there when she sees that it’s there.
Jenny: Wooooow…
Kristin: [overwhelmed sigh] Well, I had a couple of feelings during this conversation. I am not surprised about it. [all laugh] Do we have anything else that we wanna talk about? I mean I have little tiny notes but I don’t know that I have…
Heather: Umm, the only other thing that I thought that we could talk about was that Wonder Woman, Charles Marsten, like I wanted to tell you his deal.
Jenny: Please.
Kristin: Yes, yes, yes. More on Charles Marsten please.
Heather: The reason I want to tell you is because he was a guy who truly did believe in the power of the matriarchy, but it was the two women that he lived with that really shaped him in terms of feminism and in terms of the comic book that he wrote. They’re the ones that gave him the idea, they’re the ones that edited the comic books. His wife’s name was Elizabeth and she was at Harvard with him and together they developed what would ultimately become the lie detector test.
Kristin: What!
Jenny: Whaaaat?
Heather: Yep. That’s correct. Elizabeth’s lover her name was Olive and Olive’s mom opened the first birth control clinic in the United States.
Kristin: Oh my god.
Heather: And so these were the two women who lived with this man and whose ideas– they had these very revolutionary ideas about feminism. The things that they believed were revolutionary even for now and they believed them in the 30s. So he was constantly shaped by all of the conversations that they had, and all of their friends that they would bring over to talk about all of this stuff. And because he started believing in it, and because he knew that he had an avenue for it, that’s why he started writing the Wonder Woman comic books. And he had a series in the early books where it would show Wonder Woman hanging out with Florence Nightingale, or Wonder Woman hanging out with Billie Jean King, or famous tennis players or whatever, and his idea was that by doing these sort of things that he would be teaching young girls that everybody was Wonder Woman. Like you are all your own Wonder Woman.
Jenny: Oh my goood.
Heather: And the reason that he believed that was because he was surrounded by all of these women who he saw as their own Wonder Women. Olive, his wife’s lover, and I guess his lover too but she had these– in all the pictures you see of her she’s wearing these really thick bracelets that look like Wonder Woman’s wrist bracelets.
Jenny: Whoa, what.
Kristin: Jesus.
Heather: So he just– everything that he drew for inspiration from them is what he used in the comics and so the first– you know the golden age comics are really preachy in a really fun way because they’re super feminist. And he died in 1947 but Ethel and Olive stayed together and Ethel just took a job working for the CEO of Metlife.
Kristin: Whaaat?
Heather: To support their five kids and she supported Olive, and Olive stayed at home as a stay at home wife.
Kristin: Oh my gooood. Wow.
Heather: Yeah, and I just think it’s really important to know that Wonder Woman’s origin story, it was written by a man, but it really was shaped by very unapologetic feminist women who continued to live their queer life together even after he had passed away. And these were women who were– have deep, deep roots in feminism in the United States.
Kristin: Wow, [sighs] to Ethel and Olive, the true origin story of Wonder Woman. Oh my gosh.
Jenny: Unbelievable.
Kristin: That’s so powerful. And it’s so powerful too because it’s an example of a cis dude using a platform to elevate voices that need to be heard.
Heather: Absolutely.
Kristin: So it’s like a win-win-win-win all around. That is so incredible. Thank you for sharing that with us.
Jenny: Yeah, I love it.
Heather: Yeah!
Kristin: And where did you learn that and where can we all read more about Ethel and Olive?
Heather: Elizabeth and Olive. Ethel is Olive’s mom, she’s the one who did the birth control clinic.
Kristin: Oh, oh, oh Elizabeth.
Heather: Well, there’s a couple of different books. Tim Handley’s Wonder Woman Unbound is a really good book about Wonder Woman’s history. It’s super easy to read. Another one that I can’t think of the name of right now that I will give you to put into your list. But yeah there’s two or three good books out right now that are like Wonder Woman history books.
Jenny: Awesome.
Kristin: Dang. So to Elizabeth, Ethel and Olive is what we should have said.
Heather: That’s right. Yes.
Kristin: Yes, to all three of them that is amazing I cannot wait to read more about that story and learn more about all of this and what a good point to end on too is just like you know if you’re out there, and you’re a feminist, and you’re doing this work, keep doing it because that is how these things get created and then continue to lift up people to do it more and brick by brick you know?
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: Yeah, rad.
Heather: Yeah.
Kristin: [sigh] Heather Hogan, you are our a Wonder Woman.
Heather: Ah, you guys are Wonder Women.
Jenny: Woooow.
Kristin: You are just such a dream. Thank you for taking the time out to talk to us about this.
Heather: Yeah of course, absolutely. Thank you for having me, I was so excited it even exceeded my excitement expectations so thanks guys.
Kristin: Now you deserve a nap you know, since you’ve been awake.
Heather: I feel like I just wanna go run a couple circles around my block I’m so hyped up right now.
Kristin: Alright, but do it with your cape on at the very least.
Heather: I will, for sure. Thanks y’all.
Kristin: Alright Heather, thank you so much.
Heather: Have a good afternoon.
Kristin: You too.
Heather: Bye.
NOTES: [chime]
Jenny: Well, that. was. great.
Kristin: That was phenomenal. Thank you once again to Heather Hogan, you can read so much incredible, incredible, incredible stuff of Heather’s over at Autostraddle.com and you should also follow Heather on twitter @theheatherhogan. Indeed, she is the Heather Hogan.
Jenny: The one and only.
Kristin: There is no other.
Jenny: Accept no substitutes. [Kristin laughs] Well, I’m Jenny Owen Youngs and when I’m not making this podcast with Kristin and watching episodes of Buffy I’m usually writing and recording songs. You can learn more about me at jennyowenyoungs.com/buffering. And there’s a new recording up on that page. It’s a cover of the song Long Black Veil which was originally popularized by Johnny Cash. I released it in collaboration with Isabella Rotman and you can learn more about the comic drawn by Isabella that goes along with the song on that landing page at jennyowenyoungs.com/buffering.
Kristin: It’s really beautiful! The song and the comic! You should check it ooout!
Jenny: Oh thanks. And you can give me a shout on twitter @jennyowenyoungs.
Kristin: Yes, and I am Kristin Russo, you can follow me over on twitter @kristinnoeline k-r-i-s-t-i-n-n-o-e-l-i-n-e. You can also learn more about the work that I do with LGBTQ communities over at everyoneisgay.com or mykidisgay.com.
Jenny: Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on twitter, facebook and now instagraaam at Bufferingcast. And you can always shoot us an email at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin: Yes, and if you’d like to support the work that we are doing here, you can do that. We have made it possible for you to do that. You can go on over to bufferingthevampireslayer.com and just click on patreon. Our patreon page is a very active place, a very fun place and we cannot express how much thanks we have to all of you that help support this through that avenue. Also, our voting closed over on patreon so our patron only Buffy watch will be Band Candy.
Jenny: Ahhhhh!
Kristin: On July 30th you can find all the details over on our patreon page, we will be streaming on our secret facebook group. If you’d like to join you can be a patron at any level, and then you too can join us for our viewing, our live viewing, of Band Candy all together it’s gonna be a lot of fun. You can also of course support us by leaving a positive review over on itunes. That helps people find the podcast and the larger our community grows, the quicker we will take over the world, right?
Jenny: Yes, I think so.
Kristin: Now we’ve got Wonder Woman on our side. We’re really gaining speed.
Jenny: Well, till next time...
NOTES: [Wonder Woman theme]
Kristin: Today’s episode was brought to you by Modcloth, you’re go-to spot for fashion that’s as unique as you are. Modcloth believes that fashion is for every body, size, and shape which is why their exclusive line of apparel comes in a full size range from extra, extra small to 4X. Head on over to grab all of your summer essentials at Modcloth.com and use promo code Buffy at checkout to get 30% off your order of $100 or more.