Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 2.18: Killed By Death
Jenny: Hey friends! Today’s episode of Buffering the Vampire Slayer was recorded in front of a live audience at A-Camp in Mukwonago, Wisconsin.
Kristin: We had an array of guests, some invited and some not.
Jenny: Some crashers.
Kristin: Yes, some crashers, some not. But we were very excited to get the chance to talk to Kate Leth, who you know and love, Heather Hogan, senior editor at Autostraddle–
Jenny: Who you’re about to love.
Kristin : El Sanchez, a comedian based out of Seattle.
Jenny : Who is amazing
Kristin : And Gaby Dunn, who no matter where–
Jenny : Just can’t get stopped
Kristin : No matter where we go, she finds us, that Gaby Dunn.
Jenny : She’s all grappling hooks and camouflage, you know.
Kristin : She is, truly, truly. If you want to learn more about A-Camp, you can go on over to a-camp.org. It is a beautiful, beautiful place with beautiful, beautiful people. And if you were in our audience, thank you so much for being there. We had a great time with you.
Jenny : And without further ado, here is the episode. Hurray!
NOTES: [Theme song]
Jenny : Okay, we’re gonna start recording now, so if you all could pretend like you’re just seeing us for the first time and you’re very excited about it, make some noise, that would be helpful for the vibe.
Kristin : Ready, go!
NOTES: [audience cheering]
Jenny : Hello and welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast where we are watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, one at a time. I am Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin : And I am Kristin Russo and this week, we’re talking about Season 2
Episode 18: Killed By Death. And we’re doing that where, Jenny?
Jenny : Live at A-Camp!
Kristin : Yeah! [audience cheering] Stay tuned at the end of this podcast every week for an original song written by us, recapping the Buffy episode we are discussing.
Jenny : Killed by Death was written by Rob DesHotel and Dean Batali, directed by Deran Sarafian and aired originally on March 3rd, 1998.
Kristin : A table mic really does something to you. You know what I mean?
Jenny : [laughs]
Kristin : This is the one where: "While hospitalized with a severe case of the flu, Buffy battles a demon that sucks the life out of sick children."
Jenny : This is also the one where it’s just Nightmare on Elm Street.
Kristin : Yeah. [audience agrees with a chorus of yeahs] Oh my gosh, which is exactly where I would like to start. I have written up some notes, as I always do, but these notes are specific ‘cause I’ve circled every time I was like, are you fucking kidding me?
NOTES: [Jenny and the audience laughs]
Kristin : This is– this is literally Freddy Krueger. Okay, let’s start at the beginning. First of all, we have Freddy Krueger. He comes at night, the grown ups don’t see him, he was with Tina. Now–
Jenny : Tina!
Kristin : I don’t know how any of you experts on Nightmare on Elm Street, but Tina is the first kill in Nightmare on Elm Street, the very first one. Not only is Tina the first person that gets killed by Freddy Krueger, but Tina is dragged down the hallway as a bloody Tina.
Jenny : By an invisible force.
Kristin : By an invisible Freddy, just like then at the end, I mean in the middle, whatever, Dr. Backer is– first of all, Dr. Backer, how does he die? How does Death kill Dr. Backer? Four slashes? Like Freddy Krueger’s hand? Maybe? A little bit? And then is dragged down the hallway, just like Tina, and then at the end in the basement– first of all, it’s like a drippy basement, very horror movie but also very Freddy Krueger. And we see this monster who’s like, death but Freddy, walking down in a shadow, and that’s like a classic, classic scene from Nightmare on Elm Street.
Jenny : Do you know what I think might have happened here?
Kristin : What happened?
Jenny : Do you remember in Phases, how they spent a lot of money on the morphing technology to shift Oz from human to werewolf form and back?
Kristin : Yeah.
Jenny : And then they were like, "Oh shit, we forgot a werewolf costume. Somebody run to Party City and get the cheapest one they have!" [Kristin and the audience laugh] I think maybe while that person was at Party City, they were like "Oh, look at this off-brand Freddy Krueger knockoff burned scary finger man costume!" And they just picked that up and they were like "Do you think we could use this for something in the future?" And then...
Kristin : And then there it was.
Jenny : And then they wrote this episode.
Kristin : Yeah, I think you’re right! The creators of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, big shoppers at Party City!
Jenny : They love Party City!
Kristin : But anyway, yeah, I mean, this whole episode, the whole thing! Kids, whatever.
Jenny : We’ll talk more about it, as we go–
Kristin : No, that was my whole manifesto.
Jenny : Not even the fingers down the wet basement?
Kristin : I said! In the basement, the fingers, the shadows, the whole–
Jenny : Okay, okay, okay.
Kristin : That was my full manifesto. I mean, you know–
Jenny : Sometimes I stop listening to you, I don’t know why.
Kristin : Sometimes she stops listening to me. We have that recorded now, everyone knows the truth. Sometimes my wife stops listening to me.
Jenny : So you know that thing where like– [laughs] you know that thing where like, you have the flu but you have like a sacred duty that you have to fulfill that is both secret and vital to the, you know, protection of your neighborhood and town and humanity?
Kristin : I know. I know it.
Jenny : You know how it is!
Kristin : I know how it is.
Jenny : You can’t stop patrolling for vampires just because you have a virus!
Kristin : I agree! Actually, I’m gonna tell you all something. I really identify with Buffy in this episode, especially today. Nobody panic, I’m fine. But to prepare for this live taping, I decided to get ill yesterday and go to the emergency room, where I was last night. This is a real story! Look at– I started by saying I’m fine!
Jenny : She’s fine.
Kristin : I’m here, I’m making jokes.
Jenny : She’s really committed to method podcasting. [audience laughs]
Kristin : I’m fine. You’re fine. But I kept my hospital bracelet on– [audience laughs] to prove that, uh– and just like Buffy, you know, I was like, "Well, I must– but I must codirect A-Camp! And I must–"
Jenny : "I must podcast."
Kristin : And I must do a podcast. Yes, so here I am, but I just thought it was really, um, big of me to do– [audience laughs]
Jenny : [laughs] You remind me of someone right now. Who is it? Who could it be?
Kristin : I think it’s… maybe just Buffy the Vampire Slayer.
Jenny : No, well, I was gonna say Cordelia.
Kristin : Oh, oh! [audience laughs]
Jenny : "It’s really big of me" is the start of most of Cordelia's sentences.
Kristin : Wow, that’s the nicest thing you’ve ever said to me.
Jenny : I know.
Kristin : Thank you so much!
Jenny : Don’t get used to it.
Kristin : Ah. So anyhow. We start this episode with the Scoobies on patrol, which I love. They’re like, backing up for Buffy, you know? They’re like, don’t worry, we’ve got this. They probably don’t have it on their own.
Jenny : No, they’ve got like a real, like, Mark’s brothers, Abbott and Costello kind of vibe.
Kristin : [laughs] The vampire comes out and they’re like "Nyah!" For the listener, you know what I did, right? By that noise, if you couldn’t see me. It was the– okay, good.
Jenny : Two fingers poking forward at eye distance apart.
Kristin : Right. Yeah, and then Angel, fucking Angel. Come on.
Jenny : With the timing.
Kristin : With the timing–
Jenny : And the lines.
Kristin : And his lines! [low voice] "This does not look good for our heroine!" He’s evil Angel, so he comes in, there’s a fight. Buffy is very flu’d but the Scoob–
Jenny : Flu’d.
Kristin : Yeah, that’s a verb, right? No, what would that be? Adjective. Flu’d. I’m flu’d. Yes. Buffy’s very flu’d. But she still wins the fight because the Scoobies help her. It’s great.
Jenny: It really is great. Sorry, I’m still thinking about flu’d. Sometimes I keep listening to the thing you said a while ago. [audience laughs]
Kristin: Great. Fantastic.
Jenny: So it all balances out, is my point.
Kristin: It does. So fine. So they win the fight. Angel is… you know, not defeated but knocked down, so. Then we go to the hospital and I think what’s really important about the fact that we’re at the hospital is that we have Kate Leth here with us, and the fashion in a hospital is just– I don’t know, Jenny, don’t you think it’s just remarkable?
Jenny: I– my– what the Scoobies are wearing or just, like, scrubs as a concept?
Kristin: Just, you know, just like hospital garb.
Jenny: Feeling it!
Kristin: Yeah. So you all know Kate Leth from the fashion watch of Buffering the Vampire Slayer. But you probably also know Kate Leth from eight million other things including being here at A Camp and so cold all the time.
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: Kate Leth, will you join us?
Jenny: Please! [Audience cheers] Yay!
Kate: Well, hello!
Kristin: Hi Kate!
Kate: Hey! How’s everybody? [audience whoops] Geez. Hi. Oh, good! Thank you, I’m glad. The feedback is nice.
Kristin: My dreams are coming true right now.
Kate: Yeah, I feel really great about this.
Kristin: At A Camp, with Kate, talking about Buffy, this is great!
Kate: Yeah, I’ve had a lot of dreams that start like this, so… [audience laughs] it’s cool.
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: But just like a little bit warmer.
Kate: Yeah, yeah. Definitely.
Kristin: So Kate, we gave you an episode just rife with fashion, I think.
Kate: Yes! I did want to say one thing before I start and get into the fashion because I am going to get into the fashion in detail. I find this so funny, the fact that this is this Nightmare on Elm Street thing ‘cause I just recently started working in TV. No need to brag, but I do it. And it is really funny because I’ve only been in writers’ rooms for a couple of months, but there are absolutely days where every– I’m not gonna say it’s always the guys, but it’s always the guys– is like "you know what we should do is a Die Hard episode!" So I believe with all of my heart that there was a day where they were like "you know what we should do is just Nightmare on Elm Street." Like, I’m tired, I’m going on vacation next weekend, let’s just do that movie as an episode. Anyway.
Kristin: And not even, like, pull the deep cuts, just go right for the biggest plot lines–
Kate: Yeah, let’s just do it.
Kristin: Biggest character names.
Kate: But yes, the fashion. [Kristin laughs] So I was worried about this episode because when I do my Buffy rewatches, I actually skip this one usually just because it’s not like a traditional Buffy episode, you know?
Kristin: Yeah.
Kate: And I do feel like it’s sort of shoehorned in with her relationship that you’ve never heard about before, that exists only for this episode and then is never talked about again. And also because when I was a kid, that monster creeped the hell o  ut of me! Those eyes are still really uncomfortable.
Kristin : This is one of the– if I rank the monsters, at least that I remember from my first watch-through, this is one of the ones that is up in the top of scary.
Kate: Yeah. This is like, they were trying out a monster that shows up in Season 4, but doing it… bad.
Kristin: Exactly.
Kate: I don’t know if I should say it…
Kristin: And that’s my top monster. That unnamed monster. Somebody out here sent us an email– I’m not gonna read the email, don’t panic. But somebody in the audience at A-Camp sent us an email that was in a full panic. It was like, five days before A-Camp and they were like, "Listen, my girlfriend is watching, but she’s not caught up and I need to know what episode you’re watching. I’ve given her Cliff Notes and I’ve made her a video reel of all the important points, and I want to make sure that you don’t– so can you– if it’s a secret, I won’t tell, I promise…" So I just really appreciated, whoever you are out there, your commitment.
Kate : That’s really sweet!
Kristin: Yes. Shoutout to you. We were like, "We’re watching ‘Killed by Death,’ we appreciate all of your commitment to Buffy the Vampire Slayer." Anyway, Kate, I didn’t mean to interrupt.
Kate: No, it’s absolutely fine. I do want to say that while– so I was worried about this episode, because I didn’t really remember it. And I didn’t remember anything distinct about it, or specific. But then, upon watching, got to re-live an episode wherein Cordelia wears three distinct sweater sets.
Jenny : Mmmhmm! [Audience laughing]
Kate : Three! Three d  ifferent ones. There’s a pale green one in the beginning, there’s the blue one she wears for the majority of the episode, which does just wonders for her. And then she has like, the very "mom" one, that she wears in the latter half, which is sort of white piping with, I think it’s navy? It’s hard to tell on the projector. And then she’s got that sort of like, sunshine, almost lemon yellow skirt that she’s got. It’s just… it’s the same outfit three times…
Kristin : But just in different–
Kate: In different colors. The first one, she has a very practical jacket on, which I found very strange for Cordelia.
Kristin: Especially also for her trip to the hospital. [laughs]
Kate: Yeah… yeah. It’s very odd. There’s a lot of like, threes in this episode. And I don’t know if it’s– I want to say it’s to tie into the fairy tale theme of threes, but I don’t think they were probably that smart about it. But let’s pretend. So I’ve talked on the podcast before about how they always put Willow in geometric shapes, straight lines and children’s jewelry to age her down. And also to try and make Alyson Hannigan unsexy, which is impossible. [Audience laughs]
Kristin : Yeah. Yeah. Agree, agree.
Jenny : [laughs]
Kate : But they really work at it. So she’s got this one, that I remember noticing it the first time when I watched "The Puppet Show," and she has that one that’s a straight line, and it’s the ones that you made in school that are like, the daisy chains, you know? So she– we were watching it, and she’s got one in the beginning where it’s a hanging pendant of a daisy. Then a little further on, she’s got one that’s like, specific daisies with a single bead link in between it, and I wrote down, "Oh man, she has a different– like, two different daisy chains." But then, in the back half of the episode, she wears the classic daisy chain! So it comes full-circle. And I was just like, "Man!" And she also has like, at least two different hairstyles in this episode, which is unusual for Willow.
Kristin: I feel like there’s some kind of Willow Bingo that’s in here, you know? Geometric shapes, children’s jewelry, braids, y’know, like, how many can you get per episode?
Jenny: Or a drinking game.
Kristin: [laughs] Or a drinking game, yes. Or both!
Kate: I do want to say something controversial, and I hope that you won’t judge me for it. I know, I know. I actually liked something Xander wore in this episode.
Kristin: Gasp.
Jenny: [drawing out the words] Go on…?
Kate: [laughs] And I…
Kristin: Oh my gosh, oh my gosh. I think I know what it might be.
Kate: I didn’t even write it down ‘cause I was like, "I’m so embarrassed. I’m so ashamed." [audience laughs]
Jenny: You didn’t want to leave a paper trail?
Kate: You may have heard me hissing when he was on-screen. It’s fine.
Kristin: Or may have heard El groaning silently every time Xander is on-screen.
Jenny: What’s wild is, I feel like this the episode in this series, up to this point, where he’s been the most inoffensive?
Kristin: Yeah, but we are also at A-Camp.
Jenny : Yeah!
Kate : Yeah.
Kristin : So they cancel each other out...
Jenny: I get it, I get it, I get it.
Kate: Yeah. But…
Kristin: Yeah, so what’s the outfit, Kate?
Kate: It’s when– and I’m trying to remember exactly when it is during the episode, but you’ll remember, ‘cause you were just here. Um, but it’s the one– it’s sort of a geometric one, and it’s black or navy, and then white, and it has sort of diamond-y shapes across it? It just looked so cozy. And I think it might also be because I’ve been freezing for several days. [Audience laughs] But I was like, I want that, that looks good, because I want to be in it, y’know?
Jenny: He might not have actually even been wearing it. You’re just like, hallucinating sweaters everywhere. [Audience laughs]
Kate: Yeah, like, man. "I wish I had something made of alpaca." [laughter] Um, it was very good.
Kristin: But Kate, I had a question, a fashion question for you.
Kate: Absolutely.
Kristin: And it has to do with Xander, because Xander is wearing carpenter jeans, and I just wanted Kate’s hot take on carpenter jeans.
Kate: Okay, this is gonna be awful, but how would you define a carpenter jean, specifically?
Kristin: They’re the jeans with the… Jenny?
Jenny: They have like, a hammer loop and a ruler pocket. For measuring.
Kate: Oh, yeah! Yeah, I remember those existing.
Kristin: They were a big part of my personal life, carpenter jeans.
Kate: I remember them existing, end of statement.
NOTES: [Jenny and Kristin laugh]
Kristin: So no strong feelings against, no strong feelings for.
Kate: Well…
Jenny: Or perhaps best not to say.
Kate: Best not to say.
Kristin : I see, I see.
Kate : I mean, you said they were a part of your life, so y’know, I don’t want to judge you here. Live your truth, Kristin.
Kristin: I mean, you know… it was a time for carpenter jeans, and then it was a time for JNCOs, you know? or maybe it was JNCOs first, and then carpenter jeans.
Kate: They live in perfect harmony.
Kristin: I see Reese in the audience nodding. Do you know which came first, JNCOs or carpenter jeans? JNCOs. JNCOs first, then carpenter jeans. That’s right.
Kate: I did also want to call out that Joyce looks excellent in this episode.
Kristin: Joyce, for having a daughter in the hospital, is yeah, really doing a great job.
Jenny: Practically glowing.
Kate: Joyce looks choice.
Kristin: Flirting with Giles, just like…
Kate: Right?! "If there’s anything you need…" Yeah! Okay, Joyce.
Kristin: I know! The first watchthrough was like, wow…
Jenny: "Heard your girlfriend d  ied." [audience laughs]
Kate: [flirty] "What’s up? I see you spend a lot of time leaning over the students that you look after." [Audience laughs]
Jenny: He’s at the hospital before Buffy’s mom and Buffy’s mom didn’t say a thing! What the fuck!
Kristin: She’s like, "This librarian is so, just cares about my daughter so much." Come on, Joyce.
Jenny: That’s why we picked this school district? They’re really involved.
Kate: Yeah… this one is also really strange to me because it’s sort of a bottle episode, and it comes so soon after such like, dramatic events that it’s like, "Hey, remember, this horrible thing just happened. But we’re just going to sidestep that for about 40 minutes. We’ll get back to it, don’t worry."
Kristin: Although Giles– I did notice, especially on the second watch that Giles– they really do put a lot in Giles, like– I think Anthony Stewart Head is the one that does this, but just like, you can tell that he’s grieving through the episode. He runs his hands through his hair way more times than usual.
Jenny: A lot of glasses cleaning.
Kristin: Yeah, a lot more glasses cleanings. That was technically the episode that we were up to for A-Camp, and we were like, "Imagine we showed them ‘Passion.’" Yeah, it’s just too… no.
Jenny: Too real.
Kristin: We want to lift you up with a demon that kills children…
Jenny: Uhhhh...
Kate: That kills babies. 
Jenny: But nobody here is a baby.
Kate: Yeah. I’m sorry. I like "Passion," but it is hard to watch, as a group.
Kristin: Kate, do you have anything else about this episode, that maybe doesn't lie in the fashion realm, that you want to talk about?
Kate: Very little. I like this one, I think it is definitely not one of the stronger episodes. It’s one that I tend to forget about, especially following up one of the best and/or most soul-destroying episodes. Oh, I will say very briefly, my thought is that– so you all know that I’m in the not– I wouldn’t say specifically "anti-Xander," but that I do not like Xander? You can call that whatever you want, I guess anti-Xander is very…
Kristin: Yeah, anti-Xander feels right.
Kate: It’s fine. But with caveats, because I’m not a super aggressive person about those things. But I do like him and Cordelia in this episode, because I have said before, the only times that I’ve really loved Xander are when he’s with Cordelia. Like, I think it redeems both of their characters in really interesting ways. And I love Cordelia, and she’s so good in this. And it made me pine for, like– ‘cause I was watching some stuff that’s later on in the series. And I was like, "Oh my god, she’s so good! She’s just so good." And she’s so funny and she adds so much to the cast. But I love it, she comes in, and she sets those little Krispy Kremes down...
Kristin: [adoring sigh]
Kate: That was so cute! He doesn’t deserve her, but like… [audience laughs] But it’s so nice. And I mean, I have a thing against the whole "I’m gonna use my sexual wiles to get what I want" kind of thing, which happens and it makes me cringe, but when it’s Cordelia, I don’t know, somehow it works, ‘cause she’s so charming.
Kristin: Because she’s using it to overpower Xander, a representative of, what, Jenny?
Jenny: Oh, that would be the patriarchy. Have you heard of it?!
Kristin: I have, I have heard of it. [laughs]
Kate: [deep sigh] I’m over it, personally.
Jenny: I liked the first season a lot... [audience laughs]
Kate: It kind of went downhill…
Jenny: But it’s really fallen off.
Kate: I do love, and this will sort of be my final statement on the topic: "I love your nose. You must work out." [audience laughs]
Jenny: [laughs] What?
Kristin: But you could see her searching the security guard for like– she couldn’t tell a lie. She was really like, "Okay the nose, that seems structured properly. I can honestly give that."
Kate: "I can work with this."
Kristin: "I can work with this."
Kate : Because tact!
Kristin : So Jenny, would you be so kind as to grace Kate, live, with her jingle?
Kate: I’m gonna blush so hard my face might fall off.
NOTES: [Jenny strums guitar]
Jenny: I’m just going to do a special A-Camp edition of this jingle.
NOTES: [Acoustic "Fashion Update" jingle] That was our friend Kate, She gave you the Buffy fashion update.
NOTES: [Applause]
Kristin: Beautiful. Kate Leth, thank you so much for joining us–
Kate: Thank you, thank you, thank you, everybody! Oh my gosh.
Kristin: Here at camp, and on Buffering. Kate Leth, everybody!
Jenny: Thanks, Kate!
NOTES: [Wild cheers of adulation]
Jenny: Yeahh, Kate!
Kristin: Okay. So Jenny.
Jenny: Kristin.
Kristin: That was fun.
Jenny: That was great. I miss Kate.
Kristin: I know.
Jenny: Do you think we’ll ever see her again?
Kristin: [imitating Kate] "I’m still here! I’m still right here, guys!" Let’s cut back into the hospital. We already talked about the ridiculous fact that Giles is there, and Joyce is like, "Yeah, you care a lot." But we learned some– oh, I’m so sorry, look at you ready to go.
Jenny: No, no, please.
Kristin: I was just gonna say, we learn something at the hospital that is very integral to the plot, which is that Buffy is afraid of hospitals.
Jenny: Right...
Kristin: Right?
Jenny: Joyce just whips out some exposition from nowhere. And Willow eggs her on appropriately. "What– why?! And when?!" And Joyce is like, "Well Buffy is afraid of hospitals because her cousin Celia died in the room – she was alone in the room with her when she died, and she was only 8 years old, and that’s the entire story. She’s been afraid of hospitals ever since." And then… Buffy flips out on the gurney–
Kristin: Oh yeah, Buffy–
Jenny: And is like, "Vampires!" And– amazing, Scoobies to the rescue! "Oh, she must be delirious! Oh, she doesn’t know what she’s saying." And then Giles…
Kristin: Giles is my favorite. "Uh, yes, Buffy, we’ll get to the vampires later."
Jenny: "Best to play along with her delusions ."
NOTES: [Audience laughs]
Kristin: [laughs]
Jenny: Great. Great, great, great, great, great. Great.
Kristin: Which kind of ties into the bigger theme of the episode too, which is that nobody believes kids. Y’know? Buffy is sort of placed in the flu, with the kids situation, and that kids say things, and adults don’t believe them. Also, that kids are often in hospitals, sitting in the dark with a light on their coloring book, drawing horrific monsters? [Audience laughs] That whole scene– I know I’m skipping ahead, but that whole scene was a lot f or me. Where his little head is tilted up?
Jenny: Yeah…
Kristin: Also, every time that Buffy’s been in a hospital, a child has appeared creepily. We’re two for two, right?
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah, yeah! Yeah. Remember–
NOTES: [Laughter]
Kristin: I’m going to use that for the remix of this episode. [Jenny and the audience laugh] Hardcore.
Jenny: Yeah, Buffy wakes up as the clock turns from 2:26 am to 2:27 am, and she looks to her door and sees a haunted kid, who stares at her forever. And then he walks by and then , a spooky music cue occurs, just as–
Kristin: It sounds just like the Nightmare on Elm Street theme.
Jenny: What!
Kristin: I know, I said i was going to stop. But it does, it sounds like that, "Dun dun dun dunnn." It does, go back and listen to it.
Jenny: Yeah, it’s very of the thing. And so she sees a scary… tall… withered?
NOTES: [pauses]
Kristin: I’m just going to wait for you to get there.
Jenny: Bewigged…
Kristin: Bewigged!
Jenny: Bewigged a  nd behatted–
Kristin: [Laughs]
Jenny: And be-long-fingered– [audience laughs] creep of a demon walking behind the kid. And he turns his head to make eye contact with Buffy, and is like, "Yeah, that’s right. I’m following this kid." [Audience laughs] And then goes on his way. So Buffy gets up to follow–
Kristin: [Laughs] Yeah, he does that! That’s like a really big personality trait of this demon, that he’s like–
Jenny: If he could wink, he would be, but he has eyes full of weird flower suckers.
Kristin: Right. [Laughs]
Jenny: So no winking.
Kristin: Also, did you mention the fact that Buffy rips her IV out of her arm?
Jenny: Not yet, ‘cause she hasn’t woken up.
Kristin: Oh, I’m so sorry– spoiler!
Jenny: But when we watched it the first time, I was like, "Hey, she had an IV, but she didn’t rip it out. That’s weird, because they love to show people ripping out the IVs." But then she wakes up and does the exact same thing, she actually takes her IV out. Which is like, don’t do t hat!
Kristin: But also, I get it. I just had one in my arm yesterday.
Jenny: Kristin was like, "Can I take it out? Can I take it out?"
Kristin: I literally was like, "Can I?"
Jenny: "Can I take it out? Can I take it out?" And I was like, "I think you should wait for the nurse. I think you should wait for the nurse. I think you should wait for the nurse."
Kristin: And just so you know how much Buffy the Vampire Slayer is in our lives, in the hospital, she was like, "Do not, okay, you’re not Buffy the Vampire Slayer. [audience laughs] Don’t rip it out of your arm!"
Jenny: Well, I mean, I think it’s good to remind you of that periodically, just to bring you back down in general.
Kristin: Ugh, fine. There’s also this amazing little, tiny clip where we’re panning down the hallway, and we see the security guard for the first time–
Jenny: Oh yeah!
Kristin: And it’s like, this reveal where he’s so creepy, but he’s also– what’s this actor’s name?
Jenny: Willie Garson.
Kristin: Willie Garson!
Jenny: Of Sex and the City fame. You may remember him as Carrie’s friend, Stanley. Stanford!
NOTES: [Quiet, singular "whoo!" from audience]
Kristin: I like how– that one half-hearted whoop from the audience.
Jenny: It was Carly.
Kristin: It was like if somebody got excited and then was like, "Ooh, maybe I shouldn’t– I am at A-Camp–" [Impression of a stifled cheer]
Jenny: [Laughs]
Kristin: Can I go to the part–
Jenny: Please!
Kristin: Can I go to the part where Angel and Xander face off? Are we there?
NOTES: [Distant cheer from the audience]
Jenny: Wow. So many people said–
Kristin: I mean, we know who won the Sexual Tension Award…
NOTES: [Everyone laughs]
Kristin: Because it was given not by you or myself, Jenny, it was given by this live audience here. Every person, but like, all at different times was like, "Kiss! Kiss! Kiss, kiss, kiss, kiss, kiss! Why don’t you just kiss?!" [Everyone laughs] Because, yeah! Angel brings Xander white roses. It’s very romantic.
NOTES: [audience laughs]
Jenny: [Laughs] Oh god! Do you remember that episode of Planet Earth that we watched? With the birds of paradise?
Kristin: Oh my gosh! Yes, I do.
Jenny: ‘Cause that’s what this made me think of, ‘cause they’re sort of like, having a pissing contest, kind of?
Kristin: Yeah, I wrote down "pissing contest" and then I crossed it out and wrote " kissing contest." [audience laughs]
Jenny: And I– sometimes, I would just prefer– why can’t men just put up their back feathers and do a strange dance, when that’s what they mean? Why do they have to like, get their faces really close and threaten each other? You know what I mean?
Kristin: It’s like you said that but you sounded a little bit into it when you got through it, you know?
Jenny: Yeah, I know. I didn’t think this all the way through. I like both! I shouldn’t have to choose, I guess.
Kristin: I think that this Sexual Tension Award between Xander and Angel is a great time to bring up the person who could not stop moaning– [Jenny laughs] moaning in a horrible way– every time Xander hit the screen. So, without further ado, I would like to welcome Seattle-based comedian El Sanchez to the stage!
NOTES: [Audience cheers]
Kristin: For the at-home listeners, please note that El is wearing a bear suit, a complete bear suit.
Jenny: Fuck yeah.
Kristin: And it’s probably keeping you so warm. Those bear suits are so warm.
El: All these things are facts.
Kristin: [Laughs] So El–
El: Tell us your thoughts.
Kristin: Let’s start with your thoughts on the episode. Did you have anything that really stuck out to you?
El: Yeah. For a couple of– okay, I’m sort of a Buffy novice, and I say that not being sure what the word "novice" means. [audience laughs] But I’ve heard it. I’ve watched Buffy, I’ve mostly watched Buffy for Oz, because I like werewolves.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Hell yeah.
El: So I have– [Laughs] Sorry, I just like your little, "Hell yeah!" But I did take a– are we allowed to swear?
Kristin: Oh, please.
El: Why did I ask that? I looked like a real square, just now. "Are we allowed to swear?"
Kristin: [Laughs] "Am I allowed to say ‘shit’?"
Jenny: [Laughs]
El: I did take a lot of notes. I’m not gonna just go through them. But I’m trying– there was something– I’m trying– some of the notes were how things stuck out to me. Specifically, I was listening to the audience react to a couple of things. I like that the reactions were– and I’m surprised less people got excited when you mentioned that actor from Sex… is it Sex in the City? Or and the City?
[Audience: And!]
Kristin: And. Sex and the City.
El: And? Oh.
Jenny: It’s confusing, ‘cause it contains a lot of sex in the city.
El: I thought it was Sex in t he City this whole time.
Kristin: Someone in the audience just let us know that the city is its own character.
Jenny: Wow!
El: Whoa!
Kristin: I like you out there, whoever you are.
El: Okay, well, so when you mentioned the actor, everyone tried to play it real chill and aloof, like, "Oh, yeah." But when that guy came on screen, I
could hear a lot of people going: [whispered murmuring] And people were like, "Who’s that? Oh? Yeah!" And I definitely– and the reason I knew it was Sex in the City, was because I heard s  omeone say Sex and t he City. Oh god. I’ve been sounding real stupid in conversations, for a long time. Okay. I didn’t know it was Sex and the City. Okay, so it was that, and then the silk pajamas. Everyone was like, "Ah, silk pajamas? This is– where did she get silk pajamas?" It was like a reaction from that. And then I definitely heard–
Kristin: Do you think it was–
El: Oh! Oh the last one, I couldn’t read it, but it was– [laughing] I heard people react to the fact that Xander was drinking Surge. [Everyone laughs] Like, I heard this [whispered murmur], and then I heard someone go, " Surge! "
Kristin: That actually happened in our house when we watched it for the first time. Same reaction. I was like, "Oh my god, is that Jolt or Surge?" I used to not be allowed to drink energy drinks. Like, when I was an early teen, I was forbidden from drinking– I was allowed Mountain Dew, but I wasn’t allowed anything above that.
El: Isn’t Mountain Dew really intense though?
Kristin: It is, it is, but Jolt was like 57 times the caffeine of Mountain Dew. It was like, you could die if you drank three of them in a row.
El: But they literally have a Mountain Dew called Code Red. [Everyone laughs] Like, that’s scary, right? I mean, so do y’all do the dew? Do y’all do the dew?
Jenny: I do not.
El: Do you do the dew?
Kristin: I no longer do the dew. I used to do the dew, hard.
El: Oh! [Laughs] That’s the only way you can do the dew.
Kristin: That’s true. Actually, I came home– here at A-Camp home, my home here at camp– and opened the fridge and there was a bottle of Mountain Dew and I was like, "Who is doing the dew in our apartment?" [laughter] And Marni, who co-directs A-Camp with me, was like, embarrassed, and was like, "It was by the pizza and I just… felt so…"
El: I really hope you opened the fridge and then just shouted out, "Who’s doing the dew? Who’s doing the dew!"
Kristin: Like that commercial for Gellin soles. "I’m gellin’. You gellin’?"
El: Ohh. Ohh, that is the worst. That makes me cringe so hard. I hate– I hate when he goes "gellin’ like a felon," or whatever. [everyone laughs] Oh, that makes my whole body hurt.
Kristin: [Laughs] Well, El–
El: I’m gagging now.
Kristin: Well, gagging I think might be a great transition point for us into your feelings. You have a lot of feelings about Xander and I–
El: [Groans]
Kristin: And I would just love to hear about them.
El: Okay. Here’s the thing, and I don’t know if this divides the room, but it will tell me who I should talk to later, anyway. I am not– I do not l ike Xander. Not a fan of Xander whatsoever. [Audience cheers] And this is for
several reasons. One: character, annoying. He is the Chandler of Buffy. [Everyone laughs]
Kristin: 100%.
El: 100%. 100%.
[Audience member: Chandler rocks!
El : He’s the Chandler– [to audience] What? He’s the Chandler/Ross? No.
Jenny: That person thinks Chandler rocks. 
El: Oh, Chandler rocks! Oh, I thought you brought up Ross. I’m like, can we not get super depressed? Ross is, like, a whole other episode.
Kristin: Jenny– the other day, I was doing an episode of Getting in Bed with Kristin, and we were asked what our Friends characters were. And Jenny got so sad all of a sudden, and I was like, "What’s wrong?" And she was like, "I think I just realized I’m a Ross."
El: [Groans] That’s so Ross of you to do that, too. [Everyone laughs] Just bum everyone out and make it about you. [laughter] Yo, he’s the Chandler. He has all these horrible quips that he thinks are very funny, that he says almost too quickly for you even to understand, which is fine, because it’s not funny even if you did. And he’s just– he’s got an annoying level of energy. Oh, I did do some tallies.
Kristin: Oh my gosh.
El: And one of the tallies was how many times Xander annoyed me. [Everyone laughs] It’s 23. [Applause]
Kristin: Just 23?
El: Just 23. I also did "Xander tries to be funny." That’s 16.
Kristin: Do you think there was overlap? Did he get a tally for trying to be funny and also then annoyed you?
El: Probably. I’m sorry– I have more tallies. Is this worth it?
Kristin: Yes, this is a new segment called "El Tallies."
El: Yes. I have one for "Willow looks confused." That’s 9.
Jenny: Yeah.
El: And then– oh. Oh, I gave up on "dramatic music changes." Oh, I also gave up on this one, but I started it, which was "Giles nervously fumbles words." And I just gave up on that one. I went to 9.
Jenny: But then you fell off?
El: But then I just stopped because I’m like, that’s too much. It’s infinity. Oh, I also did "clothes that I also wore in the late 90’s, early 2000’s."
Kristin: Oooh. Carpenter jeans?
El: I did, absolutely, 100%. I also wore that little leather– I’m not the fashion expert that Kate is– I wore that little leather flower thing. That choker? I had one of those, but they were all black flowers. I wore it when I was 16, sophomore year. I think I bought it at Hot Topic, probably.
Kristin: You were like Dark Willow?
El: Yeah, no, I think I bought it at Claire’s. [Laughs] It doesn’t matter anyway.
Kristin: Claire’s–
El: Claire’s Boutique, I’m sorry, I didn’t say the full name. Claire’s Boutique. Which I don’t know if everyone– they had one that my mall growing up in Washington state.
Kristin: Yeah, it’s where you get your ears pierced!
El: Yeah!
Kristin: Where else but Claire’s Boutique? Unless you’re Jenny Owen Youngs, and you use an ice cube and a safety pin ‘cause you’re real tough.
El: Ohhh, that is real tough.
Jenny: Do go on.
El: Oh, I’m sorry, I also had one for "people hiding around corners." Which for some reason, I had 4, and then scratched out one, and left it at 3.
Kristin: They weren’t hiding well enough?
El: Oh, ‘cause I wasn’t sure if the time that Buffy was eavesdropping was technically the same as the camera panning, and then "Oh! Someone’s by that door!" So if it was the "Oh, door!" hiding, that’s 3. But if it’s just hiding around corners, it’s 4.
Kristin: El, apart from Oz, do you have a favorite character?
El: I like Willow. I’ve always– and I always found– I think Willow looks real hot in them sweaters. I’m all about those high, uncomfortable sweaters that I also wore by like Union Bay. [everyone laughs] That would have like the tiniest little V right here, and it would just scratch you neck and give you like a red– which is why– and you wear a t-shirt with it to try to avoid that situation. [Jenny and Kristin laugh] but didn’t help. Yeah, I used to wear those Union Bay sweaters, like navy blue with some kind of mustard block color.
Jenny and Kristin: Yes, yes.
El: With carpenter jeans.
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: Of course, of course!
El: That was the look.
Kristin: Yeah, it was! I know.
El: I mean, it was my look.
Kristin: Jenny, do you have a jingle for El? Did you prepare a jingle for El? I know that she didn’t but–
El: Ohhhh.
Kristin: You know what I mean? I know that she can. [improvised El jingle] Thank you El for joining us on this brief discussion of activities on the hell... mouth [applause]
Kristin: Oooh! I like that rhyme of El and hell. It was very, very nice Jenny. El Sanchez, thank you for being a part of our podcast!
El: Thank you! [audience cheers] [Ad break music cue]
Jenny: Today’s sponsor is Shudder, the premium streaming video service devoted to thrillers, horror and suspense. Backed by AMC networks, Shudder has a growing and dynamic selection of thrilling premieres, originals and exclusives. Including the pregnancy horror comedy Prevenge, Sophia Takal’s Always Shine, and The Ring vs The Grudge franchise mash-up, Sadako vs Kayako.
Kristin: New this week is Shudder’s latest exclusive, the meta-slasher Lake Bodom. A hit at SXSW, Lake Bodom is inspired by the true story of four teenagers stabbed to death while camping. Forty years later, a group of teenagers arrive at the same campsite, hoping to solve the infamous murders by reconstructing it minute by minute. Declared a superior slasher movie by the Hollywood Reporter, Lake Bodom is a horror film you do not want to miss. See it today, only on Shudder.
Jenny: Shudder is available on the web, IOS, Android, Chromecast, Apple TV and Roku for $4.99 a month, or $49.99 with an annual membership. But our listeners can get a free month by going to Shudder.com and entering promo code ‘buffering’ at checkout. [Ad break music ends]
Kristin: Alright, Jenny, what do we have to talk about? I would like to talk about Cordelia, did you know? So we go to Cordelia. Cordelia– this is my favorite moment for Cordelia, where they– well, there’s a couple. First of all, everybody walks into Buffy’s hospital room, and Giles has balloons, and Willow’s done Buffy’s homework, and Cordelia gets so upset. "Nobody told me to bring a gift."
Jenny: [Laughs]
Kristin: And then Giles has this amazing retort, where he’s just like, "It’s what people do." [Audience laughs]
Jenny: I don’t entirely buy… you know what I mean? Because Cordelia is the product of some– she has a structure…
Kristin: Yeah, she seems to know etiquette. Yeah, I think she just forgot and she felt embarrassed. But also probably not, because Cordelia never feels embarrassed, she was just mad. But then, my real top Cordelia moment is when they go out– ‘cause Cordelia and Giles have a whole situation in this episode. And they go out to the hospital courtyard, wheeling Buffy.
Sidebar story: once I had an appendectomy, and I smoked cigarettes at the time and I was also like 21 at the time, and I was so upset that I couldn’t have a cigarette that I convinced my friend to sneak me out in a wheelchair so I could smoke. I had had surgery, like– I don’t know, eight hours earlier? And I had him wheel me out and I smoked a cigarette and then I hopped back in my– literally, only a thing you would do at I think 18, 19, 21.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Not 20. You wouldn’t do it at 20. But yeah, and then I had to stay in the hospital for four extra days because I smoked a cigarette right after having anesthesia. Anyway, [audience laughs] my point was. The longer this episode this goes on, you’ll see how many times I have been in the hospital [Jenny and audience laughs] So Cordelia and the gang are out there, and Cordelia immediately is like, "I know what Buffy’s doing, she’s just trying to turn this illness into a demon so she can fight it and kill it, we all see through your shit, Buffy, blah." And everybody's like, "Gasp!" And then Giles is like, "You know, Cordelia, it’s called tact." I don’t know what he says, but he’s like, "you should really have tact." And then Cordelia says, "Tact is just not saying true stuff. I’ll pass." [Audience laughs and a few people whoop]
Kristin: And that, my friends, is why I love Cordelia.
Jenny: I really appreciate that Cordelia is the first person to name it, and everyone is like, "Could it be this? Could it be that?" And then Cordelia is just like, "Or could it be that you're just creating something, a manifestation, because you're afraid of hospitals but you can’t fight that because it’s intangible, so maybe you’re just making this up so you have something to fight?"
Kristin: It’s her way! Didn’t she just do something like that in the last episode? She was like, "I don’t understand why he just crawls through your window and draws you in charcoal, why doesn’t he just kill you?" [Audience laughs] And everybody was like, "Cordelia! Stop it!"
Jenny: He’s setting the mood.
Kristin: But then, sorry, can I take this as my Cordelia tangent here? Because I have more.
Jenny: Please. Oh my god.
Kristin: I have more Cordelia. Cordelia then is in– so then we see the carpenter jeans, because then they go– you know, Xander and Cordelia are on the mission to get the files, and so they walk into the room, and then in comes the big, burly security guard to stop things and Cordelia then uses her wiles to distract him. And I thought– this was actually where I was gonna call out the patriarchy the first time because I just thought this whole exchange was great, especially where the security guard is like, "I’m all the time restraining people." [Audience laughs]
Jenny: That’s how I’d be saying it too, if it were true.
Kristin: "I’m all the time restraining people."
Jenny: That’s definitely not like all "the lady doth protest too much" situation.
Kristin: Yeah, exactly. So yeah, I felt Cordelia was using the patriarchy to her advantage in this situation. Those are my academic notes.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Speaking of academics...
Kristin: Mmhmm, yes, would you like to talk about Judith Butler now?
Jenny: And feminism and stuff. Well no, I just feel like that might be a good point at which to bring up–
Kristin: Sorry, I’m sorry, I just was chuckling to myself that I used my one chance to say a Judith Butler joke to an audience. [Audience laughs and cheers]
Jenny: [laughs] Never again.
Kristin: I was like, got to get it in now. Do it, good. Okay, sorry, what were you going to say, Jenny?
Jenny: Well, I was going to say that maybe now would be a good time to bring up our next guest.
Kristin: Oh! Yes!
Jenny: Am I alarming you? Shocking you?
Kristin: No, that’s fantastic.
Jenny: Taking initiative and determining the spacing of guests?
Kristin: I love you taking initiative. Who is our next guest, Jenny?
Jenny: Our next guest is a senior editor at autostraddle.com–
Kristin: This is true.
Jenny: And one of my personal heroes.
Kristin: Also a Hufflepuff, like myself. [Audience cheers]
Kristin: Heather Hogan! [Audience cheers]
Jenny: Heather Hogan!
Kristin: Oh, Heather Hogan.
Heather: Hello.
Jenny: Thank god you’re here!
Kristin: Thank god you’re here. This is a dream. I’m so excited.
Heather: Thank you, thank you.
Jenny: What a delight.
Heather: No one’s ever introduced me as an academic before. I was like, "Is there a fifth guest that I don’t know about, they’re about to bring up?"
Kristin and Jenny: [Laugh]
Kristin: Heather, since this is your first time on the show, I would love to hear about your relationship to Buffy.
Heather: Okay, so I am… I was scared of everything.
Kristin: Same.
Heather: No, no, so I’m scared of things that I shouldn’t be scared of. For example vampires, werewolves... there’s a tunnel at camp that goes from one side of camp to the other. It goes under the road, there are like, children’s drawings on the inside...
Kristin and Jenny: [Laugh]
Heather: I have yet to make myself go through the tunnel.
Kristin: Oh my god. If somebody could go to the tunnel before camp is over, and draw the Der Kindestod– [Audience laughs] inside the tunnel, I would be really thrilled.
Jenny: That would be ideal.
Kristin: Is that a volunteer? Oh my god, it’s Isabella!
Jenny: Thank you, Isabella!
Kristin: Great! I couldn’t have thought of a better candidate.
Heather: Well, now I’m certainly never going to do– if we have camp here for 50 more years! So anyway, but I’m not scared of things that I should be scared of, like, home intruders, or like, I live in New York, I’m not scared of cars– these things I should be scared of. But when I was a little kid, vampires were like my #1– the scariest thing to me. And here’s why. When I was in the third grade, on Halloween, I was like super psyched, it was free candy night. So my sister and I are going to the bus. There’s some streamers hanging down. We pull the streamers back, we walk onto the bus, and like, Dracula is there, driving our bus. So I flipped out. [laughter] And I jumped off the bus, and I was like, running back across the street, and the whole time I was yelling to my sister– her name’s Jennifer– like, "Jennifer, get off, it’s a trick! It’s a trick!"
Kristin and Jenny: [Laugh]
Heather: "It’s a Dracula!" So she didn’t get off the bus, and I went back into the house and I shut the door and I fell against it, and I was like– my parents came in, and I was crying, and they were like, "What happened?" And I– "We lost Jennifer!" [Everyone laughs] "We lost her." But the problem is, [starts laughing] my house is the last stop before we get to school, so that bus is already full of kids who saw me like, run across– and I was already like a weird kid. I didn’t really have very many friends. Anyway, so like, in addition to being afraid of vampires and then like, completely socially traumatized at this young age, I just never watched Buffy.
Kristin: Mmhm.
Heather: And then as an adult, when I came out, I realized like, girls are not going to make out with you if you haven’t seen Buffy. [Everyone laughs]
Kristin: Some won’t marry you unless…
Heather: Right, right, right.
Jenny: Accurate.
Heather: So I went through this thing where multiple times, I tried to watch the show, and I didn’t like the girl I was dating enough to get past this episode that we’re on right now.
Kristin: This one?
Jenny: Wow…
Kristin: This very one?
Heather: Yes, this very episode!
Kristin: Wow!
Heather: I’ve been trying to figure out for weeks which episode was going to be at camp, because I can handle the emotional trauma, but this Freddy Krueger bullshit is no good for me. [Everyone laughs] So anyway, my partner now, we’ve been together six years, and she is the one who I was like, I really want to be with her, I’m going to have to power through this Freddy Krueger thing. And I did!
Kristin: Aww. It’s like a Buffy love–
Jenny: It’s a beautiful love story.
Kristin: A Der Kindestod love story.
Heather: Yeah. But also, I’m still really scared– I didn’t even come over to watch it, we screened before, but I didn’t come over to watch it because I didn’t want to see it again. But then the other side of camp, there’s nobody over there right now, so I was thinking about the episode and I came out of my cabin and I was like, "Oh noooo…" [Everyone laughs] So anyway…
Jenny: But you did not get picked off by the camp Der Kinder-camp-estod. Campestod.
Heather: No, I did not because I think the Der Kindecamp is in the tunnel, so… I’m all right.
Kristin: Yeah, for sure. Also I just want to say that I feel that your not getting on the bus like maybe you got teased for it but I just personally think that it’s a really great survival instinct.
Heather: Thank you.
Kristin: You know what I mean?
Heather: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: Fine, maybe they were fine that time but somewhere, there was a bus where Dracula was driving to be funny for the kids for Halloween and then they all died. [Audience laughs uncomfortably]
Heather: I feel so much better now.
Kristin: Well, I’m just saying.
Jenny: Yeah, statistically.
Kristin: Statistically, it’s had to have happened once. The real Dracula has had to play that prank once. [everyone laughs] He kills the teacher that’s dressed as Dracula and then he gets– and he’s like "Mua-ha-ha-ha" That’s the count I think, from sesame street but you know what I mean.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Wow.
Kristin: So is it the demon that scares you the most?
Heather: Yeah, that, this to me is the second scariest episode of Buffy, but also, I think it’s a very underrated episode of Buffy. I think it’s very– like, I know it’s controversial. People think it’s thrown in there for no reason. But I think it’s really– I think we learn so much about Cordelia and Buffy both in this episode, and we learn so much about both of their characters and they both grow in these fascinating ways that come to play later in the series. And I love the thing that you just said where Cordelia’s like, you know, "Could this possibly be that you have some childhood trauma and you’re manifesting a fake demon because you wanna save us because you can’t save yourself." And I’m like yes, Cordelia, that is what I’m doing, that is why I can’t go through the murder tunnel, Cordelia. Thank you. [everyone laughs]
Kristin: Yeah, Cordelia, really saying some real things. She really does.
Jenny: So we’re not just learning about Cordelia and Buffy in this episode but we’re also learning about Heather?
Heather: Yeah, we are. I have definitely made this all about myself, thank you.
Kristin: So you then made it through this episode for the girl that you love.
Heather: I did.
Kristin: And then you watched the rest of the series, so have you just seen the series one time through?
Heather: Yes, I have.
Kristin: Just like me. Aww, Hufflepuffs, one time watch– well, now I’m on two, but you know.
Heather: Overall, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: I just appreciate you, Heather Hogan
Heather: And I appreciate you, Kristin. [crowd awws and then laughs]
Jenny: The fuck?
Kristin: This is how a loving relationship works.
Heather: It’s just like, you know, you’re like a true Hufflepuff, you work really hard, you go to the hospital, you come back, you work really hard. You know?
Kristin: Thank you so much. I did it all for Buffy.
Heather: I know, I know.
Kristin: I like that when El was up here, it was a roast. It was a full roast. And now that Heather is up here, it’s like, ‘I would like to tell you all the nice things about yourself,’ you know? It’s just great. Do you have a favorite character, Heather?
Heather: Yes, my favorite character is Willow. [crowd cheers]
Jenny: Sure, sure.
Kristin: Yes, yes. For the reasons of innocence and computer knowledge or for the– what brings you to Willow?
Heather: I just think Willow’s just super brave. I’m always into the sidekick who doesn’t have the powers but sticks it out anyway. And I think Willow goes through so many of the same things Buffy goes through. And I think the show’s so great at dealing with depression with its characters and I think they go through these things and Willow overcomes them with her brain and her– then her– I can’t spoil it for you.
Kristin: And her [makes a static noise]
Heather: Yeah, right.
Kristin: Right, this is a live episode, we like to spoil something huge at every… [Jenny laughs] One per…
Heather: Right! But for now Willow commits all in without ever thinking that she’s going to have the power to do anything other than just like what her brain will– and her skills and loyalty will allow her to do. And I really think that’s super brave.
Kristin: Do you know what happened in this episode? I don’t know how far everybody is caught up to our podcast but something important happened in this episode which is there was some Hellmath. Did you note the Hellmath?
Heather: [laughing] No, what?
Jenny: We have a segment, a very new segment, and it’s very brief. It’s just any time anybody’s doing math on the Hellmouth, it’s Hellmath. And you may remember Dr. Backer in his office, after he’s been implicated. You know, after we’ve been given the red herring of "oh, Dr. Backer, that guy’s up to no good." Then we see him in his office in the middle of the night, furiously looking at a spreadsheet and adding numbers and subtracting numbers with his mouth but no noise, and flinging open the door of his mini fridge where he keeps all the viruses in his offices, and is like ‘ah! Here we go, I’ve got this’ so…
Kristin: I opened every mini fridge at the Madison Emergency Room, no viruses.
Jenny: No vir– [laughs]
Kristin: Zero viruses.
Jenny: Not where we could find them anyway.
Kristin: That’s true.
Jenny: So he does that [singing] Hell math. And then he takes the syringe of the stuff into the children’s ward. And here’s a tip for any of you who are maybe in med school. I just feel like if you’re going to be the edgy doctor who doesn’t play by the rules, but really wants to save the kids, but might get implicated if there’s another person doing bad stuff to kids. Maybe do that like vial stuff during the day or the early evening even, maybe just not the middle of the night and not mumbling numbers to yourself at the same time. Just be cool, just look like you’re supposed to be doing it and then maybe it won’t be super creepy.
Kristin: Yeah, yeah.
Jenny: Is that reasonable?
Kristin: Yeah, little did I know that Jenny had so many passionate feelings…
Jenny: I’ve been thinking about Dr. Backer a lot. Just feel like he was a good guy who got caught up in the wrong crowd of Der Kindestods.
Kristin: [Laughs]
Jenny: That’s all.
Heather: You know, Willow does some Hellmath, some quick Hellmath in this episode.
Kristin: Right? With the dilution? Is that what you mean?
Heather: "It’s 100% That’s 100%!"
Jenny: [Laughs]
Heather: Just, she eyeballs it, she’s like–
Kristin: "Two drops–"
Heather: "That looks pure." [Audience laughs]
Kristin: Two drops pure virus, to one splash water, equals fever. Hellmath!
Jenny: This math is perfectly safe.
Kristin: Also, I wrote a note down for that, that moment– I wrote, "Buffy takes a flu shot." [Audience laughs & groans]
Jenny: [Laughs] Wow.
Kristin: Some people are going along with it. Gaby and El were like, "Oh my god… ugh." It’s like, you like that chili pepper joke! I’m just trying to get in your favor, El. I’ll work harder.
Jenny: Can we talk about one more thing having to do with the Kindestod?
Kristin: Ask Heather Hogan.
Jenny: Do you mind?
Heather: Let’s go for it. I feel so safe right here beside you.
Kristin: We were like, "Oh, Heather, your least favorite thing in the episode was the demon? Why don’t we talk about it while you’re up here?"
Heather: No, I feel safe with you.
Kristin: Aww! [audience awwws]
Heather: Oh boy! [audience laughs]
Jenny: I just want to say that when Buffy sees the Kindestod through the door that’s locked that has a window, and he like, makes eye contact with her– and then he like, doffs his cap. [Everyone laughs] And then maybe goes through the basement door and then does a little soft-shoe number that we didn’t get to see… Like, what is this demon’s backstory? Is there more, and does it involve jazz?
Kristin: Yeah, or possibly vaudeville.
Jenny: Or vaudeville, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: For sure. Also, just on that note, of things I didn’t understand, I didn’t understand why when the Der Kindestod was over the kids, that suddenly their only– from their hand to their elbow worked? Like, he didn’t have his hands on their shoulders and yet both of them did the same like, T-rex kind of a thing? That I just didn’t understand.
Jenny: Maybe that’s just part of Der Kindestod’s power.
Kristin: Perhaps.
Jenny: Immobilizes your upper arms. [Audience laughs]
Kristin: Heather Hogan, is there anything else about this episode that you’d like to talk about with us? You’re– I mean, you are an acclaimed pop culture, television writer– [Audience cheers] And you’ve already given us some really, y’know, great analysis. Analyses? Of this episode. But is there anything else you would like to add, before Jenny makes a jingle on the spot for you?
Heather: Oh no, you don’t have to do that–
Kristin: No no, she’s doing it.
Jenny: I insist.
Heather: Okay. Umm… I just think, I think this is a really good episode for Cordelia because I think it shows... there are multiple times where it shows how much she cares and does want to fit in, but is also still afraid of not being able to fit in, so she uses her little prickly defenses.
Kristin: Right?!
Heather: It’s a great– we learn so much about Cordelia and Buffy in this episode, even though it’s… you know, reviled.
Kristin: Yeah, Cordelia’s thing is always like, "Ugh why do you make me do this?" But like, no one is making her do it at all?
Heather: No one makes her do this, yeah.
Kristin: Which, I’m glad you brought up Cordelia again–
Heather: Yeah. My pleasure. Truly my pleasure.
Kristin: ‘Cause I realized I forgot to talk about the scene with Giles, when Cordelia and Giles are in the library together? "What does this one do?"
Heather: Yeah. Right, right. And you kind of get the sense, like, Giles would be more patient about it if there wasn’t like, a monster destroying the children at the hospital at the time.
Jenny: Right, right, right, right.
Heather: That’s a super great scene, because she really does want to know, and even though she’s doing it in a kind of funny whatever way, she really does care, and she really does want to know.
Kristin: Yeah, she does! She’s on the phone: "It’s Der Kindestod. Buffy, I said it! I told you what the demon was. No, but listen to me–"
Heather: Ah. Cordelia.
Kristin: Y’know, I already liked you, but now that you let me talk about Cordelia more–
Heather: Absolutely. Any time.
Kristin: Through the roof.
Heather: When you find me asleep on the floor of your bedroom tonight, you wake up and I’m there. I’ll be like, "You want to talk about Cordelia some more?"
Kristin: Our room is safe, it’s Der Kindestod-proof.
Jenny: Proofed.
Kristin: Proofed, yeah. We did that curse they did for Angel, but just for Der Kindestod. To keep it out.
Heather: Good, Good.
Kristin: Alright, Jenny, would you like to impromptu…?
Jenny: I’m ready–
Kristin: She’s so patient with me that I’m like, oh, I didn’t tell you before the show but during the show live I’m gonna make you do a jingle for every person–
Heather: Hey, you know what is a really impressive thing about you, Jenny? You don’t trip over these– like, I watch you dance around these chords and you never fall down.
Kristin: That was a good compliment but also in my mind that works like a movie. I’m like welp, there it goes. [Audience and Heather laughs] That was the last line the next scene is just like her crashing through everything on stage.
Jenny: Yeah, I’m definitely gonna die now.
Kristin: Yeah.
Heather : [sing-song] Sorry. [Improvised Heather Jingle] Heather Hogan, thanks for talkin’ to us You’re my second favorite Hufflepuff [Audience cheers]
Kristin: Heather Hogan! Ahh. Wow, wow.
Jenny: Wow, wow, wow, wow... wow, wow, wow, great.
Kristin: Well, I wanna make sure that– there’s a couple things I wanna make sure we get to before we end this episode. One being that I need to give a shout out. If you listen to the podcast, you know that I love a good horror scream and Celia?
Jenny: Crushing it!
Kristin: Knocks it out of the fucking park. I don’t know that I’ve heard a young child horror scream better than Celia’s. I don’t have a lot of data there but yeah, I just couldn’t go through without giving her her shoutout where shoutout was due. Also, we talked about Willow a little bit. But can we just talk for a moment about Willow’s– Buffy and Willow are running through the hallway, they need to get to the basement. Buffy looks at Willow and she’s like, okay, you’re a Scoobie, figure it the fuck out. [Audience laughs] How am I gonna get to the basement? And Willow is like, uh, okay… frogs. [laughter] And she’s amazing, she’s so afraid of the invisible– ah! She tricks everybody and then–
Jenny: Well, she is– I mean she’s– I think it’s really convincing because we’ve already established earlier in the series that Willow has very real frog fear.
Kristin: Yes, yeah, no.
Jenny: So that’s what she’s channeling, you know what I mean, it’s not just like…
Kristin: Right, I’m proud of Willow.
Jenny: No, it’s amazing.
Kristin: And then immediately is like "oh, no more frogs." [laughter] Also we
talked about the monster at length but I just– one of my notes is all caps: "the eyes, no, the eyes!" This upset almost as much as Bad Eggs, the bug, the fucking thing that fucking crawls across the– no thank you. ‘Cause it’s the same texture, it’s probably the same material, they just repurposed it for the demon’s eyes.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: They were like, we’ve got that sticky shit in studio A. Go grab that. But his eyes…
Jenny: My note is "Der Kindestod gets Ryan and then does the grossest thing I’ve ever seen on TV." This is actually the point– ‘cause I was watching the series in real time while it was on the air. This was the episode that I saw where I was like, whew, I don’t know if I can do this anymore! [laughter] And I became a more sporadic viewer.
Kristin: Just like Heather Hogan.
Jenny: Just like Heather Hogan.
Kristin: Wow, I wonder how many people just couldn’t–
Jenny: It’s the worst thing!
Kristin: It’s really bad. It’s really bad but–
Jenny: It comes out of his eyes but it’s like a protuberance with like, petals or something. It’s just terrible.
Kristin: Name of your forthcoming album: Protuberance with Petals.
Jenny: Yeah, that will follow Gross Emotional Stuff and Claddagh Rings and Crumpled Sheets from previous episodes.
Kristin: [laughs] Also now I’m jumping back. Also remember a couple of– let’s just go to the coloring corner for a second. Because the kid in the dark draws the fucking monster and it’s terrifying, but it’s great ‘cause now Isabella Rotman can use that as inspiration for the camp tunnel. But also, then later, Giles thinks that Buffy did a rendering of the monster. [Audience laughs]
Jenny: "Is this your work? Is this your w  ork?"
Kristin: Yeah, right. Is what’s going on and then, and then !
Jenny: He kind of sounds impressed but also like he’s trying to be polite at the same time.
Kristin: Right, right.
Jenny: Like, "I didn’t know you had– you worked with crayons."
Kristin: Like, you’re sick, you’re in the hospital, right, I don’t wanna kick you while you’re down. Right, and then at the end, the loop of the coloring saga is when she gets… I’m sorry, is there a noise from offstage?
Jenny: Oh, what’s happening?
Kristin: Oh god. Oh god! [audience laughs]
Jenny: What is this?
Kristin: Oh god, you know, I forgot–
Jenny: Security!
Kristin: Yeah, where’s camp security?
Gaby: Wait! I was gonna send it in the mail but then I thought I’d just bring it here that I drew you a picture.
Kristin: Oh– [laughs] wow.
Gaby: Yeah.
Kristin: Wow, Gaby Dunn just got on the mic. [Audience laughs]
Gaby: I drew you a picture.
Kristin: Is this? This is a picture of– okay it says ‘wow’ on the top of it.
Gaby: So you know it’s you.
Kristin: Okay, and then is this somebody with an oar, like a canoeing oar?
Gaby: No, that’s Jenny with a guitar. [Everyone laughs] But, whatever. And then that’s you wearing a hat.
Kristin: Okay, oh, this hat?
Gaby: Yeah, yeah. And then that’s Der Kindestod and you killed him. And you’re holding a knife and it’s bleeding and then there’s blood everywhere.
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: So is this like a knife killing, a guitar killing or, like, it’s a combination?
Gaby: Both, you used what you guys had.
Jenny: Right, right, I played some jazz music and he couldn’t help but soft-shoe and get distracted.
Gaby: Yeah, you played some music and he was like, "What?" And then Kristin stabbed him.
Jenny: Beautiful.
Kristin: I like my role in this. I feel–
Gaby: You’re both smiling. He’s got Xs–
Kristin: It just looks like a stick figure in a top hat to me.
Gaby: Yeah, it’s the Babadook.
Jenny: It does look a lot like the Babadook.
Kristin: This is either titled: "Kristin and Jenny Slay Der Kindestod" or "Kristin and Jenny Slay the Babadook."
Gaby: The Babadook, so yeah, so I just thought– obviously you guys asked if I would come to the podcast and like, why would you ask me to come– but, why would you ask me to attend the podcast if I wasn’t on it? ‘Cause, like, that doesn’t make sense.
Kristin: Right. Right, right. No that’s of course–
Gaby: Like, why would I go to see this, if I’m not going to, like be–
Jenny: No reason.
Gaby: The closer and the headliner.
Kristin: I mean, what I want to let you know–
Gaby: Like, I don’t go p  laces where I’m not– do you guys get it?
Kristin: I do, I get it. And I’m glad we have the kind of relationship where you understand what I mean. You know, like, when I say, "Gaby–"
Gaby: Yeah, of course! You were like, "Jenny and I are taping the podcast
live." And I was like, "Great, I’ll be there at 4:00."
Jenny: [Laughs]
Gaby : Obviously!
Kristin: Right, right. I was like, "Gaby, we’re taping this podcast." I mean, we would’ve had you as a guest, but you keep coming up– we would feel like maybe–
Gaby: Right, so this is now– for those of you, who maybe this is the first episode that you’re listening to, I’m usually the co-host. I’ve been in every episode–
Jenny: Ummmm…
Kristin: No, it’s not… not true…
Jenny : That’s not…
Gaby: Basically…
Kristin: Kate Leth… Kate Leth, pissed in the audience.
Gaby: Well, throw down. The last time that they did a live taping, what happened was a beautiful miscommunication, wherein Kristin invited me to
the Meltdown to see the live taping, but what I read from her text was: "Be in the show."
Jenny: No, no, no, Kristin asked you to be in the show, and you were like, "Ahhhh…"
Kristin: You were like, "I’m a millennial, whatever!" And I was like, "I don’t know, maybe she doesn’t want to do it." And then, and then–  you were just coming, and then like, the day of the show you were like, "So I’m on the show, right?" And I was like, "Yes." And then you were like–
Gaby: More like, I showed up at 7:00, and was like, "When are we doing this?" But anyway, so now I just feel like I have an open invitation. Like I’ll probably just come to your house at some point and be like, "What are you guys doing? You taping the show?"
Kristin: You just have your face against Jenny’s office window, waiting.
Gaby: Me and that cat.
Kristin: You and Patrol Cat.
Gaby: Yeah, Patrol Cat.
Kristin: Oh my god, are you Patrol Cat?
Gaby: Yeah, it’s like a McGonagall situation. [Audience laughs] But like, if I told you that I was actually Patrol Cat, that kind of makes sense, right?
Jenny: You have similar coloring.
Gaby: Thank you.
Kristin: Yeah…
Jenny: You’re welcome.
Gaby: Yeah, so I drew you this. I didn’t want you say the joke of the kid sending her a creepy thing in the mail, and then cut to the black– without me also doing my joke first.
Jenny: [Laughs]
Kristin: Right.
Gaby: You see how it would not have been as funny?
Kristin: I’m sensing a theme. Also, I don’t know why I keep feeling like I have to show you again.
Gaby: Because it’s so beautiful.
Kristin: It’s so great, yeah, I don’t want anybody– we’ll pass it around after.
Jenny: Here’s a lingering question: how did Ryan get Buffy’s mailing address?
Gaby: That’s very creepy! I think the twist is that Ryan is the villain this
whole time. Because also, one: is he like, eight? How old is he?
Kristin: Yeah, probably eight.
Gaby: Why– communicate in full sentences. Don’t do weird shit like, "I saw death," or whatever. Like, you’re in, like, the third grade. Just tell her what’s going on.
Kristin: He has a weird small banker vibe about him?
Gaby: They couldn’t get Haley Joel Osment and were like, "This kid." So anyway, I don’t want to take up too much of your time, also, I’ve got things to do and places to be, so–
Kristin: Sure, sure, right, of course.
Gaby: I’m like, real busy and stuff. So –
Kristin: Well, um, but now that you’re here – that means that something has to happen because I’ve declared it so.
Gaby: Oh, do I get a jingle?
Kristin: You get a jingle.
Gaby: I imagine Jenny wrote this, like, when she met me.
Kristin: That’s true.
Gaby: Like she met me, and she was like, "I’m inspired."
Kristin: Yeah, she met you and just went to her office for weeks and I was like, "What are you doing?"
Gaby: And then she came out and it was like, Sergeant Pepper. She had written Sergeant Pepper. [Improvised Gaby Jingle] She’s got vampires that she ought to be concerned with, Last night, she called an epitaph "a blurb that’s on your gravestone" She’s Gaby Dunn, This didn’t rhyme great, sorry! [Audience cheers]
Gaby: [Laughs]
Kristin: Wow!
Gaby: This was – that was an allusion to my podcast, Bad with Money, please download it, it’s on season 2, we’ve got a lot of episodes. Thanks, ‘kay, gotta go! [Audience cheers]
Kristin: Wow, Gaby! Bye, I miss you already! Oh my god, are you going to jump off– wow. Incredible. I just went to look at my notes and it was a drawing of us killing–
Jenny: That was the Gaby Dunn-est Gaby Dunn appearance… of all time.
Kristin: Yeah, it keeps building on itself, truly.
Jenny: It’s sort of this like, weird ouroboros of metaness? Just kind of like, expanding outwards forever? You know when you’re in a bathroom in like, a nice banquet hall or some– I don’t–
Kristin: What? [audience laughs]
Jenny: I… just have a really specific memory of this– it happens in other places, but the first time that I really noticed–
Kristin: Like at a wedding?
Jenny: Yeah, like at a wedding. You go into the thing that’s in between– like, the room that is before the bathroom– but it’s private–
Kristin: Right, where the mints are.
Jenny: Right, and there’s like mirrors. And you’re like, "Weird! Why can I see myself from the back?" And you realize that there are mirrors– there’s a mirror on the other side, and they’re reflecting you back in– infinity? Y’know what I mean?
Kristin: Yeah, yeah, we’re all with you… [Audience laughs]
Jenny: You don’t know what I’m talking about?
Kristin: No, I do, I do.
Jenny: When there’s a mirror in front of you, and a mirror in back, and there’s like a kajillion yous, forever. I feel like that’s Gaby Dunn’s sort of vibe.
Kristin: [Laughs] [Audience claps]
Jenny: Gaby Dunn everywhere.
Kristin: Very… yes, mmhmm. It really ended with a bang. So, Jenny.
Jenny: Kristin.
Kristin: How are you doing?
Jenny: [strangled moan]
Kristin: I’ve had a wonderful time.
Jenny: Did we do a good job?!
Kristin: I think we did. I don’t know, we’ll find out later when– [Audience cheers]
Jenny: I forgot we’re in the land of, like, automatic validation. Thank you.
Kristin: We gave out our Sexual Tension Award, we said "the patriarchy" a bunch–
Jenny: Oh yeah, played a lot of jingles.
Kristin: Played a lot of jingles. I think I hit every single one of my notes, or nearly. The only thing I didn’t talk about was the amazing Rocky Horror Picture Show back-and-forth between– about the playing doctor exchange?
Jenny: [Laughs]
Kristin: That was the only thing I missed, where Xander’s like, "She didn’t know what playing doctor was!" And Willow’s like, "What do you mean? How did you play doctor?" And Buffy’s like, "I didn’t play doctor." And then Cordelia was like, "Ahem." And then Giles was like, "Gotta go!"
Jenny: "Cleaning my glasses!"
Kristin: It was really nice, I liked it.
Jenny: That was pretty good.
Kristin: That was the only one I had left. Did you have anything left to say about this fine episode? This fine creation of television?
Jenny: I think that we’ve touched on everything that I care deeply about…
Kristin: Great. Great.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, I feel good.
Kristin: Well, the thing that I want more than anything, is for all of our guests to come– here’s what’s gonna happen. Gaby’s already up. [audience laughs]
Jenny: "Guests? You mean invited people? That’s me, that’s me!"
Kristin: [Laughs] Um, what’s going to happen is that we’re going to wolf howl out, all together, as a team.
Jenny: Well, thank you so much for joining us here live, and thanks for listening. ‘Til next time…
Everyone: AWOOOOOOOOOOOOOO!
Kristin: Oh, that was beautiful. [BELL CHIME]
Jenny: Once again, today’s episode was brought to you by Shudder. Backed by AMC networks, Shudder grants you access to the best in thrillers, horror and suspense, including Shudder exclusive "Lake Bodom", any time at Shudder.com.
Kristin: Stream them all today at Shudder.com. That’s S-H-U-D-D-E-R.com and use promo code "buffering" at checkout for a free month.
Jenny: You could follow Buffering the Vampire Slayer on Twitter and Facebook at Bufferingcast, and you can drop us an email any time at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com. [Jenny performing "Killed By Death" off the album "Songs from Season 2" by Buffering the Vampire Slayer] There’s a demon that’s ephemeral down at Sunnydale General In the east side children’s wing He’s a creepy motherfucker whose eyes are made of suckers and he’s hungry for children He’s got those long gross fingers, yeah With a jaunty hat atop his hair His underbite goes on for miles but his kryptonite is in these virus vials Der Kindestod, I’m gonna der kinde-stop you I’m gonna der kinde-stop you Giles and Cordelia helped me realize that Celia didn’t die of a natural cause Xander’s standin’ sentry, and barrin’ Angel’s entry Willow’s acting like she’s covered in frogs Backer never stood a change in that twisted Krueger dance But I won’t fall for that same trap Instead I’ll give his neck a snap Der Kindestod, I’m gonna der kinde-stop you Der Kindestod, I’m gonna der kinde-stop you I’m gonna der kinde-stop you I’m gonna der kinde-stop you I’m gonna der kinde-stop you