Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 3.03: Faith, Hope & Trick
Jenny: Hello, everybody! Hello, hello, hello! It’s me, Jenny, the one who says "hello" at the beginning.
Kristin: [laughs] We have a couple of quick announcements before we dive into all things [singsongy] Faith, Faith, Faith, Faith!
Jenny: Faith.
Kristin: [laughs] First of all, we are doing a live podcast recording at the Nerdmelt Showroom here in Los Angeles. That is on October 14th at 9 PM. You can get tickets over on our website or on the Nerdmelt website directly. But just go to bufferingthevampireslayer.com, click on Calendar and you’ll see the events and all the information there. We’re very excited and we suggest you grab your tickets because it will likely sell out.
Jenny: Yes! And also, if you like what we do here on our show, and you want to wrap and sconce yourself—if you’d like to be a Buffering burrito, let me tell you that we have shirts available over in our store, as well as CDs and fabulous pins designed by Kate Leth and by Kristine Tuna. You can gaze upon them and make them your own by visiting bufferingthevampireslayer.com and clicking on "Shop."
NOTES: [Buffering theme plays]
Jenny: Hello! And welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast where we are watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, one at a time. I am Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: And I am Kristin Russo, and this week, we are talking about Season 3, Episode 3, Faith, Hope & Trick.
Jenny: Ahh!
Kristin: [laughs] Stay tuned at the end of this podcast every week for an original song written by us, recapping the Buffy episode we’re discussing. But we have a special treat this week.
Jenny: We…do.
Kristin: We have a partner in crime.
Jenny: [laughing] I would say so, yes.
Kristin: Named Jess Abbott of Tancred. You may know Jess, you may not, but by the end of this episode, you’re gonna know Jess.
Jenny: Most definitely.
Kristin: Jess worked with Jenny and I on writing this song—
Jenny: [singsongy] Yes!
Kristin: And is going to be voicing the character of Faith, in the song!
Jenny: Ahhh!
Kristin: Try to keep it together. Don’t fast-forward to the end. The episode’s gonna be great too.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: We’re gonna hear a little bit from Jess, it’s all gonna be great.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: I’m so excited. It’s my favorite song of the entire series so far. Great talk!
Jenny: [laughs] Wow! Well, also of interest, Faith, Hope & Trick was written by David Greenwalt and directed by James A. Contner. It originally aired on October 13th, 1998.
Kristin: This is the one where—you’re gonna love this, Jenny. [Jenny laughs] This is the one where a charismatic slayer visits Sunnydale and wins over many of Buffy’s friends. Meanwhile, two powerful vampires plot an attack. [both laugh] This is the one where Faith shows up!
Jenny: This is also the one where Angel comes back from the sky!
Kristin: Oh my god. We’ll get there. I’mma wait ‘til the end for that naked-ass Angel—
Jenny: [sim] Mm…hmm!
Kristin: Falling from the sky. [laughs]
Jenny: All. Right. So, we open, in this episode, on Willow having to be carried off of school grounds, even though she’s totally allowed to leave school grounds, because she’s a senior. She loves rules. She’s afraid that the rules might have suddenly changed while she wasn’t paying attention and boy, do I get it. I love a rule.
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah, this is a very Jenny Owen Youngs moment.
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: The antithesis to Jenny Owen Youngs and Willow, I was leaving school property all the time, illegally, and also just—
Jenny: [laughs] Illegally.
Kristin: Illegal—it was against the school law! [laughs]
Jenny: Mmm. How could you?
Kristin: I mean, okay, so, here’s the thing. Whatever, Willow—we don’t open on Willow leaving school property. We open on Willow’s corduroy pants and beautiful blue fuzzy sweater—
Jenny: [laughs] Mmhmm.
Kristin: Which I am just certain that Kate Leth is gonna talk about. We’re gonna get to Kate in a moment.
Jenny: Yes, yes, yes.
Kristin: Oh, boy! Does Kate Leth have some stuff to say about this episode! [Jenny laughs] Oh, man. But like, this opening scene is great. Right, the Willow thing happens, but also it’s like, a really establishing senior year moment, you know?
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Like, they’ve taken the time in this episode to let us know that they’re seniors. And like, we kinda knew that. Like, we knew it, but there’s been so much happening in the first two episodes that had nothing to do with school—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: That this was very important.
Jenny: Now we really know it.
Kristin: Yes. Buffy is sitting there with her picnic basket. She has turned into Chef Boyardee, probably.
Jenny: Chef Boyardee?
Kristin: [laughs] I don’t know. I don’t know what her cooking skills are. She’s a senior in high school—
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: She’s been slaying vampires. All I know is, she’s got a basket and I wanna know what’s in it.
Jenny: I think it looks a lot more Martha Stewart than Chef Boyardee.
Kristin: That’s because they said Martha Stewart. They misled you.
Jenny: Oh. [Kristin laughs] It worked.
Kristin: It worked, it worked. No, I mean, maybe Buffy is a great cook, I don’t know. But Buffy is not in school, they are in school, and there’s this, you know, kind of moment that everyone has. Not everyone, but Oz and Willow and Cordelia and Xander, where they’re like, ooh, shit. We’re all coupled off and Buffy is, you know, single.
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah.
Kristin: Except for Cordelia really puts—
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: I think she puts it best. So let’s just dive right into a little Cordelia sound clip here.
Jenny: Please.
NOTES: [Clip from episode plays]
Willow: Maybe we shouldn’t be too couply around Buffy.
Cordelia: Oh, you mean ‘cause of how the only guy that ever liked her turned into a vicious killer and had to be put down like a dog?
Xander: Can she cram complex issues into a nutshell or what?
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: [laughs] You know—
Jenny: Of course.
Kristin: You know who hasn’t changed on us, is old Cordelia.
Jenny: Uh-huh, uh-huh, holding it down.
Kristin: Always there, always there, without her tact—
Jenny: Uh-huh, uh-huh.
Kristin: Because she doesn’t subscribe to tact.
Jenny: No, no, no, no, no.
Kristin: And I love her for it! [Jenny laughs] I love you, Cordelia. I’m gonna give you a jingle before the episode’s over, but I think you’ll have plenty of other moments.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: I have one in particular that I have in my mind. Okay.
Jenny: So we meet Scott Hope.
Kristin: Yes, we meet Scott.
Jenny: Who is a boy.
Kristin: Who is a cute boy!
Jenny: A totally normal-looking—
Kristin: Yeah!
Jenny: Uh, charming individual who is interested in Buffy.
Kristin: [sim] Right? Great dimples, really great banter.
Jenny: Uh-huh, uh-huh.
Kristin: Like, just the right—he has, like, an Oz-iness about him, I think.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Right? ‘Cause he has, like, fun quips. And he is nervous but he, like, handles his nervousness very well.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: He wants to go to a Buster Keaton movie fest of all—you know, I mean—
Jenny: Uh-huh, uh-huh.
Kristin: You know. He’s just cute. I really like Scott, a lot.
Jenny: Great job, Scott.
Kristin: So I’m having a great time with my pals, you know? Willow, Buffy, we’re all laughing, Scott’s cute.
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: I’m having a great time—
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: Buffy brought a fucking picnic. And then Xander [Jenny groans] has to fucking ruin the party! [laughs]
Jenny: Come on, Xander.
Kristin: "I saw that half-smile, you little slut," he says, playfully.
Jenny: But then. [Kristin laughs] But then, he gets punched.
Kristin: He does, by Buffy, so it hurts.
Jenny: And…that’s great.
Kristin: Right. So, you know—
Jenny: In this context.
Kristin: Oh my god. But I was so caught up in the moment of having fun with my friends, that I even, like, laughed off Xander’s slut-shaming. You know?
Jenny: Right, right. Right.
Kristin: Which I shouldn’t have, but I got caught off guard. I was like, yeah, my pals are back together! My slut-shaming pal, my cute [both laughing] computer-loving pal—
Jenny: Uh-huh, uh-huh.
Kristin: My sexy, perfect Cordelia pal.
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: And my slayer pal.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: Okay. [laughs] Oh my gosh, and my werewolf pal.
Jenny: Of course!
Kristin: Don’t forget about my werewolf pal. Anyhow.
Jenny: So then we cut to outside of a chain restaurant called Happy Burger, which—
Kristin: [laughing] [sim] Doesn’t look happy.
Jenny: Has the most terrifying mascot I have ever seen.
Kristin: It’s sort of like Joyce saying that the mask was gonna cheer up the room.
Jenny: Right, exactly.
Kristin: It’s the same kind of sit—Happy Burger, really?
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, the little guy by the drive-thru box is just straight out of a haunted house.
Kristin: Yeah, he’s real angry at the burger, I think.
Jenny: Yeah. [both laugh] But you know who’s not the worst? Mr. Trick.
Kristin: Oh my god! Mr. Trick.
Jenny: I love Mr. Trick.
Kristin: This is such an episode. This is a fucking episode, Jenny.
Jenny: There’s a lot going on.
Kristin: Oh man. So yeah, we meet Mr. Trick and…Kakistos.
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: Kakistos. I wanna know, how long do you have to live until your hands turn into hooves? You know what I mean?
Jenny: So that’s what I was wondering. ‘Cause later we find out—Giles says, "Oh, Kakistos is a vampire—"
Kristin: Right!
Jenny: "So old that his hands and feet are cloven." Now to me, that sounds like he had—like, that was some earlier stage of vampirism or something. Not that, like, they become cloven—
Kristin: Ohhh.
Jenny: But evolutionarily or something, they—
Kristin: Wait, like, there were cloven people vampires?
Jenny: Right, right, right. So what I think they were sort of going for is, like, because vampires, as we learn in the mythology, are—they’re hybrids.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: They’re half demon, half human. And if we think about, you know, the most famous demon of all…Rudolph.
Kristin: [sings] "The most famous—" [laughs]
Jenny: I mean, Satan. [both laugh] You know, he’s known for having cloven feet.
Kristin: Ohh.
Jenny: Not cloven hands, that’s really…a choice. But I think what they’re going for is like, you know, very old evil—
Kristin: But just, like, wouldn’t the Master have had cloven, then?
Jenny: Look, I’m with you. It doesn’t make any sense.
Kristin: I really like my interpretation, which is that at some point, Angel will have hooves. You know? [both laugh] Like, you just gotta wait for it—
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: And then one day, you wake up and you’re like, well, shit.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: [laughing] And I wanna know how old you have to be.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: Right. So anyhow, there’s this great scene where Mr. Trick—there’s a couple of scenes in this…there’s a couple of scenes in this episode where people get eaten in a real fun, fast-foody kind of way.
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: There’s the drive-thru, right here, where—this poor guy, he wasn’t even gonna get eaten.
Jenny: Oh yeah, Mr. Trick was all about it.
Kristin: He just wanted a soda!
Jenny: He was like, "Oh, he called me sir."
Kristin: Right? He really liked him. And then—
Jenny: But then Kakistos had to go talking about ripping spines out of slayers and sucking the marrow from some bones.
Kristin: [sim] Marrow, he was like, "I really wanna suck the marrow."
NOTES: [laughs]
Jenny: And Mr. Trick couldn’t help but get hungry.
Kristin: Yeah, so down went this guy. But something that I wanna talk about, before we go past this scene with Mr. Trick, is this is a really big moment in Sunnydale and in, like, the universe—the Buffyverse, I think. If you’ve been listening to our podcast for a while, you know that one of our listeners sent us a copy of this collection of critical essays called Joss Whedon and Race. It’s edited by Mary Ellen Iatropoulos and Lowery A. Woodall III. It’s a really brilliant read. I haven’t finished it yet but every essay I’ve read has just been really compelling, written wonderfully. And obviously, this is a really important topic when we’re looking at Buffy the Vampire Slayer. It’s a really important topic in general, and when we look at most television shows, but here we are. We’re in the Buffyverse. And we have Mr. Trick appear, right. And Mr. Trick has this line that he says which is very important. So I’m gonna read a little passage from the introduction. This introduction is written by those two editors whose names I mentioned. And this is talking about the scene that we were just discussing. It’s contextualized in saying, like, it may seem like race is absent from the
Whedonverse, right? But, now I’m quoting the book: "To suppose that race doesn’t exist in the works of Joss Whedon because he and many of his characters are white, is to ignore the very real ways that race is constructed in the Whedonverses, albeit at the margins, in largely peripheral characters, through aesthetic strategies normalizing whiteness and marginalizing or exoticizing minorities. For example, take Mr. Trick." Quote, "‘Not exactly a haven for the brothers, strictly the caucasian persuasion here in the ‘Dale,’ he muses during his first appearance in Buffy the Vampire Slayer, sardonically assessing racism within the Buffyverse in the grand tradition of Whedon villains speaking uncomfortable truths. "Yet the implications of this line are forgotten nearly the moment it’s articulated. The acknowledgment of racism doesn’t go far in altering actual racism in Sunnydale, as it is dismissed just as suddenly as it was recognized. But Mr. Trick has clued us into the fact that it exists, despite its apparent invisibility. Trick’s revelation demonstrates that absences matter, and a relative lack of characters of color doesn’t mean that race doesn’t exist." I’m gonna just keep reading here, ‘cause there’s a couple more sentences
and I feel like they’re really important. They go on to say: "It just means that the effects of race and racism are harder to see and understand, and that what may be presented as ‘normal,’" in quotes, "and ‘neutral,’" in quotes, "is actually socially constructed, often in harmful ways that are invisible to those with the power to define what," quote, "‘normal’ and ‘neutral’ are." So I just think was a really important passage. Like I said, the entire book is wonderful and you should read it. But this is—what we’re seeing here is Mr. Trick is calling something out. And that’s very interesting and compelling, but it doesn’t take it any further, which is what the editors are saying. We don’t go—we don’t dig any deeper there. We’re just like, oh, that’s interesting. Suddenly, we have this character who is saying something about race, and then it’s gone almost the moment that it’s out of his mouth. And I think, you know, the point here is that—you know, Jenny and I are both white women. We’re watching this show in the 90s or even right now. And it’s easier for us to sit there and not notice anything, not realize anything, not be aware of the fact that race is present in Buffy the Vampire Slayer, by the lack of representation, past white people. So I think this is something that we need to continue to pay attention to. We need to continue to pay attention to characters of color in this show and how they’re situated and how they’re treated, how they’re written, and the lack thereof. Mr. Trick is one of the first times—I think it is the first time that we hear anything spoken out loud about this issue. Which, again, important but really didn’t take it to the place that it needs to be taken to.
Jenny: Yeah. Thank you for reading that, and thank you so much to the listener who sent us this book. It has been a great resource for us to continue to check in on.
Kristin: Yeah, something we’re gonna go back to again and again.
Jenny: Okay, so. Speaking of going back again and again. [Kristin laughs] Next, we go to The Bronze. There’s a shot of the exterior of The Bronze.
Kristin: Yes, yes, there is. ‘Cause, of course, we’re just going to The Bronze.
Jenny: Yeah, right? That’s the shot we see before we’re just in The Bronze, of course.
Kristin: But it—you know, Buffy must be watching the television show.
Jenny: Right?
Kristin: Because this is actually how she dreams. Buffy dreams with an establishing shot. [both laugh]
Jenny: Because we go inside and Buffy is dancing, and we know that it must be a dream for two reasons. Angel is alive, she’s dancing with Angel. And the second reason is Angel is wearing a long-sleeve white T-shirt.
Kristin: Right! That would never happen in real life.
Jenny: Ah, that’s not enough exposed flesh.
Kristin: Yes, and if he were going to cover up, he would only cover up using velvet or silk.
Jenny: Yes. Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. I love this dream sequence, as I tend to love all dream sequences that happen in seven seasons of Buffy the Vampire Slayer. This one in particular has a Lynchian quality, as many of them do. There’s a low, sort of industrial tone that’s extended, but it’s very quiet, in the score. And then we see the Scoobies looking on in silence and utter stillness, which is just so creepy and dreamlike and otherworldly.
Kristin: Yeah, they do a really great job. Again, in this one and in all of the dream sequences. And something to note about this dream sequence, of course, is the Claddagh ring.
Jenny: The Claddagh ring.
Kristin: Claddagh ring is here, they’re—this is a Claddagh heavy episode, folks.
Jenny: A lotta Claddagh. A whole lotta Claddagh!
Kristin: Whole lotta Claddagh. Claddagh falls—Claddagh clatters to the floor.
Jenny: Wow!
Kristin: Claddagh clatters, yeah, you heard it here first.
Jenny: Thank you.
Kristin: It falls to the floor, it’s a—you know, it’s the pivot point of the dream. It is central to Buffy’s emotions right now. She’s feeling a lot of things about it, and who knows what’s gonna happen in the rest of this episode with Claddagh rings?
Jenny: Hmm.
Kristin: Who knows?
Jenny: We’ll just have to keep going.
Kristin: After this, after Angel turns into this green, rotting thing—
Jenny: Yeah…
Kristin: Which is weird but creepy—
Jenny: [laughing] They had leftover materials from Dead Man’s Party.
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah.
Jenny: They were like, let’s just put this on him. Sure.
Kristin: [laughs] We go to Snyder. We go to Snyder. This is fucking great, this scene.
Jenny: Prime Snyder.
Kristin: Prime Snyder and prime Joyce-Buffy tag-team.
Jenny: Gettin’ it.
Kristin: Oh my god, they’re so psyched because the school board has overruled Snyder.
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: And instead of just being polite ladies who are like, "Thank you so much for letting my daughter back into your school. [Jenny laughs] Thank you so much for letting me learn in a place of education." They don’t! They don’t fucking give a fuck. I’m sorry, I’m swearing a lot in this episode. It’s Faith, Hope & Trick, so. [Jenny laughs] I’m on fire. [laughs] But they say to Snyder—you know, Joyce is like, "Um, I’m not sure I like your attitude, Mr. Snyder." And then Buffy does this whole, "Oh, so, it must suck to be you, to like, have had the school board [Jenny laughs] kind of use their power to totally overcome your power. That must be really awful." And then Joyce takes it home! [Jenny laughs] "I think what my daughter is trying to say is, nah nah na-nah nah!"
Jenny: God.
Kristin: And then they leave!
Jenny: Imagine having a mother…who would do that.
Kristin: That's—I mean, I kind of do have a mother who would do that. To be honest with you.
Jenny: [sim] Yeah, I guess that’s accurate.
Kristin: Yeah. I don’t know if she’d "nah nah na-nah nah," but my mom is definitely the mom that will come in swinging.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: Even if I’m wrong, which I’m usually not. But like, it doesn’t matter, you know?
Jenny: [laughs] Oh.
Kristin: She’s there, she’s got my back. Look out. [Jenny laughs] I don’t know if you realize, Jenny, what is being smashed in a moment like this between Joyce, Buffy and Snyder, or what’s being smashed when Rose Russo and Kristin Russo speak back to male figures of authority. But maybe you could take a guess.
Jenny: Is it the patriarchy?!
Kristin: It is the patriarchy.
NOTES: [THE PATRIARCHY jingle plays] The patriarchy! [thunder clap, evil laughter]
Jenny: Okay, so then we’re off to the library where Giles is very busy, very, very, very busy, of course.
Kristin: So busy he can’t even notice that Buffy is back at school—
Jenny: No, no, no, no.
Kristin: And Buffy’s not having it.
Jenny: No, no, no, no. She needs to be noticed.
Kristin: I also just wanna give a quick shout out to Willow’s overalls. They are beautiful—
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: And I had a very similar pair of overalls that I would wear over a very similar orange shirt. Thank you very much.
Jenny: Great. Great. Great! Okay, so Giles is like, working on a spell. He’s got grand designs to bind Acathla and protect the world.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: But he needs details from Buffy about exactly what happened when she was fighting and then ultimately killed Angel.
Kristin: Right, and we’re gonna follow this arc throughout this episode of the podcast. But something to note as well, in addition to Giles’ Acathla spell, this opens up a conversation between Willow and Giles.
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: And we’re starting to hear more and more snippets from Willow about the magic that she is doing. And I love—and we talked about this a little bit in Dead Man’s Party, but I love her, like, nonchalance about the spells she’s creating. [both laugh] She’s like, "I just—I turned fire into—I turned ice into fire. And I mean, I better not do that on the bedspread anymore."
Jenny: Right, right, right, right.
Kristin: And we’re like, oh, this is interesting. What’s happening? And then I also love the dynamic between Giles and Willow. Because we’ve seen them, you know, grow closer and closer, and like, mourn the loss of Jenny Calendar and suffer some real tragedies. And I think that their relationship is being forged in just a really beautiful way.
Jenny: Totally!
Kristin: Well, do you know what it’s time for, Jenny?
Jenny: Um, I have an idea.
Kristin: It’s time for—[sings the tune to "Gotta Have Faith"]
Jenny: Wow. Didn’t discuss this. Wow!
Kristin: [still singing] "Baby!"
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: Anyway, the chorus—I can’t get there.
Jenny: It was really good.
Kristin: Do you know what the chorus is?
Jenny: Is it, [flatly] "you gotta have faith, the faith, the faith"?
Kristin: I would appreciate some goddamn enthusiasm!
Jenny: Is it, [singing] "Gotta have faith, the faith, the faith!"
Kristin: [singing] "You gotta have faith, the faith, the faith!"
Jenny: Well, now we have "faith, the faith, the faith" because she’s in The Bronze!
Kristin: And she’s dancing! Not to "Faith" by George Michaels, although I really wish that that had been what she was dancing to.
Jenny: That would have been a great choice.
Kristin: But oh, is she dancing. Oh, is she here. We have just climbed miserably through 18 minutes of this episode. [Jenny groans] Just, come on! Talk about the stuff and the other—we have arrived. To The Bronze. Faith is dancing.
Jenny: Hurray!
Kristin: Hurray indeed! And not only is Faith at The Bronze, but the Scooby gang is at The Bronze and Cordelia is looking fantastic.
Jenny: She is looking fantastic, but her mouth is a problem.
Kristin: Her mouth is not a—okay, fine. In a—there’s a moment when her mouth is a problem, but like, her mouth in general is beautiful.
Jenny: Just a teenie, tiny moment. We’d be remiss if we didn’t mention that
Cordelia says, re: Faith, from afar, "Look at Slut-o-rama and her date, Disco Dave."
Kristin: She does, and so we have Xander in the beginning of the episode, doing a little a slut-shaming. Cordelia, in the middle of the episode, doing a little slut-shaming. Slut-shaming is never good. Of course, it’s a little different when slut-shaming is woman to woman, than it is when it is man to woman. But they’re both problematic, so Cordelia, we see you. We ask you to be better in the future to other women and the way that they choose to dress or dance. Especially Faith! Just kidding, everybody.
Jenny: [sim] Yeah, because look at her!
Kristin: Everybody. But really, Cordelia, look at her! Don’t you just wanna kiss her?!
Jenny: I—wow! [Kristin laughs] You just made me think of a thing I never thought of before.
Kristin: I know, I had never thought of it either. ‘Cause we’re really—
Jenny: What?!
Kristin: We’re going down a different path in this episode.
Jenny: Okay, okay, okay, okay.
Kristin: But hey, everybody have fun with that nugget.
Jenny: Okay, yeah. Now let’s…reign it in. [Kristin laughs] So Faith is dancing with Disco Dave, who—
Kristin: Disco Dave!
Jenny: Who is suffering from that particular vampire anachronism-itis that happens when a vampire dies in a time period and then never sort of, like, moves on.
Kristin: [laughing] Updates their—right.
Jenny: He’s wearing sort of, like, a polyester shirt and he’s like, doing the hustle or something. [Kristin laughs] And then—and she’s, like, all over him dancing, and then she, like, points very obviously, like an explorer in times of old. [Kristin laughs] And she’s like, "That way!" And then they proceed to dance sideways, like—
Kristin: [sim] Dance—yes! Yes!
Jenny: [laughing] It’s amazing!
Kristin: I mean, they literally—she literally dances him out. Like—
Jenny: It’s incredible.
Kristin: It’s so awkward, and it got a lot of LOLs in my notes.
Jenny: Amazing. So Buffy sees this happen and she’s like, "Uh-oh, I don’t think that guy thrives on sunshine." [Kristin laughs] So she follows him out—but oh, she bumps into Scott on the dancefloor—
Kristin: [sim] Of course, and she’s like, "Oh, Scott!"
Jenny: [sim] On the way. Oh, oops, err.
Kristin: You might not understand this, but I’m the Chosen One. I have a lot of stuff to do. I’m not just your average teenage girl, Scott.
Jenny: Right. So like, that awkwardness happens. Then, all the Scoobies head out into the alley and they’re like, where did she go?
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And somebody’s like, "Maybe they’re just making out." And then there’s, like, some fight noises. And Willow’s like, "That’s not what making out sounds like, unless I’m doing it wrong!"
Kristin: And listen, Willow, maybe you are. Who knows?
Jenny: Maybe you are.
Kristin: No, nobody makes out wrong! [both laugh]
Jenny: Also true. Okay, so, then.
Kristin: So then we learn that Faith is a Slayer. And—
Jenny: Right, right, right. We round the corner, this girl’s just, like, tearing it up all over this vampire.
Kristin: And the Scoobies—like, I love their response to her, because they’ve seen this before, you know? Like, because Kendra has already been a character—
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: They’re not, like, as surprised as one might expect them to be. They’re like, "Interesting moves! Guess we know what we have here."
Jenny: Yeah, "this looks familiar."
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah, Slayer #2. Faith has this incredible head-butt, like a backward—
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: Like, she’s having a conversation with Buffy forward and then just throws her head back and gets this vamp. She’s like, "Yo, can I borrow your stake?" She kills the vamp and then she says, "Thanks, B." [Jenny laughs] Just B? Just gonna call her B? Is that what you’re gonna do, Faith?
Jenny: Just gonna call her B.
Kristin: Yeah, that’s what you’re gonna do. Great talk.
Jenny: Whew, so that’s a whole thing.
Kristin: It’s a whole thing—
Jenny: Then we get to see Faith tell a whole bunch of stories, end on end.
Kristin: I…love so much about so much of this scene.
Jenny: It’s great.
Kristin: I love Faith’s story-telling. I’m rapt. I’m there, I’m like, in for it, you know? She’s great.
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: And you know, like, Faith’s Boston accent—like, I remember first watching this series and being like, "I don’t really understand her accent." And I don’t know what my deal was, because watching it—[laughing] maybe I just love Faith now, [Jenny laughs] and now I’m like, everything Faith is great! But like, we watched it again and I was like, she’s great at doing a Boston accent, and she’s from Boston, Eliza Dushku.
Jenny: Uh-huh, uh-huh.
Kristin: So like, anyway, I love her Boston accent. I love everything about her. She is great.
Jenny: Amazing.
Kristin: But…what I also love about this scene is Cordelia.
NOTES: [CORDELIA jingle plays] Cordelia… (ah-ahh) I love you, Cordelia (ah-ahh) You're perfect, Cordelia (ah-ahh)
Kristin: I love—[Jenny laughs] I just love the way Cordelia handles Xander’s stupid piss baby self. You know what I’m say—
Jenny: [sim] Wow! We’re sticking with "piss baby," huh?
Kristin: Yeah, I’m keeping "piss baby."
Jenny: Alright!
Kristin: Shout out to Mal Blum from episode—Season 3, Episode 2. Dead Man’s Party, the piss baby episode. [Jenny laughs] But Xander, come on! You know? Like, he’s just—it would be bad enough if he was a single dude and he was sort of just, like, ogling Faith and being like, "Tell me more about being naked."
Jenny: But like, while you’re sitting next to your girlfriend?
Kristin: Your beautiful, perfect, wonderful girlfriend?
Jenny: [sim] Yeah, monogamous girlfriend?
Kristin: Yeah, come on, man! Get it together! And I love that Cordelia—she is just like—her legs are crossed. Her scowl is on. And she’s not having it, but she’s also not like, "Xander, why are saying these things? Why don’t you care about me?" She’s like, "Bitch…"
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah.
Kristin: "Get your shit together!" And I love it!
Jenny: It. Is. Great.
Kristin: [sim] I already gave her her jingle, I wish I could take it back and give it to her now.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: But it’s playing in my head. We also get the: "It’s funny, B, how slayin’ makes you hungry and horny." Record scratch.
Jenny: [sim] Yeah, getting a lot of—[both laugh] Getting a lot of important slayer info. That we were not previously privy to.
Kristin: [sim] Yeah. Faith is very…right. Very forthcoming.
Jenny: Very forthcoming.
Kristin: Buffy is immediately humiliated, thereby proving that, of course, she also gets [both laugh] hungry and horny after slaying. Right? Which is lovely. And she tries to like, couch it in this, "oh, well, I—you know, occasionally crave a nonfat yogurt." [laughs]
Jenny: Right. Also, okay. We find out from Faith, whose watcher is allegedly on retreat—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: At the Annual Watcher’s Retreat. We immediately learn, of course, Giles was not invited. Now here is some addition—there’s a lot of logic gaps in this episode. The cloven hooves thing…
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Doesn’t make any sense. This does not check. There are two Slayers.
Kristin: [laughs] Right.
Jenny: One living watcher, attached to one living Slayer.
Kristin: [laughing] How does that guy—
Jenny: How is he not getting an invite? That doesn’t make any fucking sense at all.
Kristin: No. At all, no sense.
Jenny: But it does allow us to see Anthony Stewart Head be, uh, charming and adorable—
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: And deliver lines with great…acuity? Is that the word I’m looking for?
Kristin: Ooh, I don’t even know what that means but it sounds great.
Jenny: Great.
Kristin: I need to rewind it back a step, Jenny.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: Happy to talk about Giles, but before we leave The Bronze, before we leave Faith, Faith says something very important for the first time.
Jenny: Oh!
Kristin: It’s in reference to Oz saying, "How do you feel about werewolves? Am I safe with you?" And she’s like, "Yeah, as long as you do this or that other bad thing, I’m five by five."
Jenny: Wow! What does it mean?!
Kristin: What does it mean? Do we ever know?
Jenny: Nobody knows!
Kristin: [laughs] I mean, I take it to mean that we’re square. Right? Like, you’re good, I’m good—
Jenny: [sim] Right. Okay.
Kristin: We are equal, right, five by five. It makes a square, so that’s—
Jenny: Sure. Yeah.
Kristin: Is that…hell math?
Jenny: It might be! [Kristin laughs]
NOTES: [HELLMATH jingle plays] Hellmath!
Jenny: Okay!
Kristin: [laughs] In the hellmouth, five by five equals 25 or one. New. Slayer.
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: [laughs] Anyway, uh, back to Giles. Who Faith thinks is super hot, sharing something in common with Kate Leth.
Jenny: Wow!
Kristin: Kate Leth and Faith have a lot to talk about.
Jenny: They do.
Kristin: Don’t they? Speaking of Kate Leth, let’s go over and find out what she has to say about this episode.
NOTES: [Jenny singing and playing guitar] It’s time for our friend, Kate To give you the Buffy Fashion Update!
Kate Leth: Welcome back to Buffy Fashion Watch. The seasons are turning, the leaves will soon be falling, and if you ask me, it’s pleather weather. Honestly, it’s hard to pick looks from this episode. It opens on Willow’s orange corduroy pants and progresses handily into everything that is Faith. I’m talking red pleather flared pants. I’m talking boob window cropped tanks with matching arm warmers and faux snakeskin pants. I’m talking tribal tattoos and burgundy lipstick and platform chunky-heeled boots. [sighs happily] She definitely gets some competition from Cordelia in this episode, who wears not only Matrix sunglasses—awesome—in the opening scene, but a frankly jaw-dropping red dress with blown out crimped hair at The Bronze. She looks like she’s going to an awards show. She looks amazing. But Faith is in a league of her own. She wears the most eyeliner per capita in Sunnydale, and I lay myself at her feet for it. Now, Buffy has some capital-L looks in this episode, particularly her sheer gradient top in the library. Which reminds me of what I talked about earlier. It’s just very good, she just looks very good in white. And Willow is peak Willow, with colored knit tights and some of her best hair. And we even get Mr. Trick, honorary dude mention, in a silk lavender shirt. I love the way he dresses, even if his ties are a little long. There are butterfly clips and overalls and Joyce’s Grecian sculpture of a hairdo. It’s practically too much. This episode is too much. You should see the notes I took, there are so many notes. God! I cannot wait to talk about Bad Girls. Until then…well, actually, a couple of times before then…I’ll see you at the mall. Oh, hey, does your Target have its Halloween stuff out yet? Because mine doesn’t and it sucks and—sorry. I’ll let you get back to the experts.
NOTES: [Jenny singing and playing guitar] That was our friend, Kate She gave you the Buffy Fashion Update!
Jenny: Our thoughts and prayers are with Kate, hoping that her local Target puts out the Halloween stuff real soon. Also really hoping she can together with Faith soon and discuss their common interests. Maybe they could do it over dinner at the Summers’ house, but not tonight ‘cause tonight is just Faith, Buffy and Joyce.
Kristin: [laughs] Wait, wait, wait, wait. We’re gonna get there, we’re gonna go there and we’re gonna hang out there. But first, we cannot leave the library—they all leave Buffy, first of all. This is important, right? [Jenny groans] Because they’re like—they all wanna hang out with Faith and this is—it’s building and building and building that Buffy’s feeling more and more left out, more and more replaced.
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: She is the chosen one, she’s supposed to be the only chosen one. This chosen one is getting in her way.
Jenny: [laughing] Wow.
Kristin: But Giles has a line before they leave, before we go to the next scene, where he says, "This new girl seems to have a lot of zest." [Jenny laughs] And I just love it. And if I have the time, I’m gonna make a GIF of it because it’s very important.
Jenny: I look forward to that GIF. Let us also note that this is the second time Giles has asked Buffy for more details about killing Angel.
Kristin: Yes, yes.
Jenny: He’s collecting data for his very important spell.
Kristin: Yes, for the spell that—yes, sure. We’ll wait ‘til the end to talk about that. [clears throat]
Jenny: Mm-hmm!
Kristin: So we go to the hallway.
Jenny: Oh my god, Willow and Xander are taking Faith on a horrors of Sunnydale High walking tour?
Kristin: It’s really great. I would like to be taken on that tour.
Jenny: Me too!
Kristin: You know? Like, can I sign up for that?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: How much does a ticket cost? And then Cordelia—[laughs] Cordelia is just—this is Faith’s episode, okay? But Cordelia’s really battling.
Jenny: She’s shining.
Kristin: She’s really battling. She has this line, ‘cause she’s again, calling Xander out on his bullshit.
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: What are you doing? And she, instead of being like, "Hey Xander, fuck you." She’s like, "Hm. You know, you really have a thing for slayers. Maybe I should dress up like one and stake you in the heart." [Jenny laughs] And I’m like, yeah, maybe you should! And so is Xander.
Jenny: And Xander’s like, "Please don’t be joking. Ahh."
Kristin: Yeah, Xander and I have, like, one moment of solidarity right here.
NOTES: [Jenny laughs] We’re both like, okay! Yeah! [both laugh]
Jenny: So like, Faith is talking to Xander and Willow, like, "What’s up with Buffy? She seems like she could really find the fun, like you guys."
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: "Like, what’s her problem?" Then she bumps into Scott at the—everybody’s always bumping into Scott.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And they’re just, like, chatting it up. And looking on, Cordelia says, "Does anyone believe that is her actual hair color?" Faith’s hair is brown!
Kristin: [laughing] It’s just brown!
Jenny: It’s just brown. It’s lovely—
Kristin: [laughing] It’s so good.
Jenny: But it is, uh, a pretty normal, frequently-occurring hair color.
Kristin: This is a Cordelia-ism.
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah.
Kristin: That she’ll just make shit up—remember when she did it for Buffy’s face? [Jenny laughs] She’s like, "You mean that thing on her face?"
Jenny: [laughing] Oh, yeah.
Kristin: And everybody watching the TV show was like, is there a thing on her face? [both laugh] I don’t think there’s a thing on her face. We’re all like, does Faith have highlights? I don’t—no, no.
Jenny: [sim] Yeah, yeah. No.
Kristin: Cordelia just literally says whatever she needs to say to get the job done. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah. Yes! Exactly.
Kristin: So Scott and Faith are talking. And this is a thing.
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: This is, like, another peg in this peg…machine.
Jenny: The single white female peg…machine.
Kristin: [laughs] Yes.
Jenny: [laughing] What is a peg machine?
Kristin: [laughing] I don’t know—
Jenny: Moving on!
Kristin: Anyway. Right. So Faith, Scott, Buffy, a triangle, a triangle that does not make Buffy happy. And—
Jenny: Right, right. She’s like, I don’t even know if I wanna date him, but now that, like—
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Faith is talking to him—especially because Faith, of all people—
Kristin: [sim] Especially Faith, right.
Jenny: Is talking to him. She’s conflicted.
Kristin: Right. Then we get this scene, whatever, blah blah blah, Mr. Trick, Kakistos.
Jenny: Yo, Mr. Trick—
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Laying it down with the ancient internet technology. He’s like, "We can download one megabyte in…four days." [Kristin laughs] Like, it’s…bananas.
Kristin: [laughs] I didn’t even notice that.
Jenny: It’s 1998, and he’s like, "This is top of the line."
Kristin: Yeah, yeah, it probably is. It probably is.
Jenny: Yeah. He’s just working with what he has.
Kristin: [sim] Anyway, and then we get the second fast-food meal of the episode, where Trick has ordered a pizza. And he’s like, "food’s here," and it—of course, it’s not the pizza. It’s the pizza delivery guy.
Jenny: Yeah, great. So great!
Kristin: Yeah, it’s wonderful. I love it. I love everything about it.
Jenny: Also, this is where we learn that, uh, somebody did something to Kakistos’ face—
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: And he’s mad about it. He wants to kill the slayer that did it.
Kristin: Yes, yes. With his…hooves. [Jenny laughs] He does—when we get to the fight scene, and we’ll talk about it, but just like, the way he punches with his hooves is very comical to me. You know? [both laugh] And then we get—
Jenny: They kind of look like—you know those big foam Hulk gloves?
Kristin: Yes! The fists, yes!
Jenny: That are like—yeah, that you bop people with.
Kristin: Where you can tell that nobody’s actually getting hurt—
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: And it’s just really funny. That’s how it feels to me.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Anyhow, first, let’s have dinner with Joyce.
Jenny: Would love to!
Kristin: Yeah, you’ve been waiting to get here, Jenny.
Jenny: Joyce seems to have fully recovered from the death of Pat. [Kristin laughs] God rest her soul.
Kristin: Joyce has moved on to the next lady at book club, I think. [both laugh] Joyce has made dinner, and she is, like—and this is, you know—
Jenny: So mom.
Kristin: It’s so mom and it’s so gay. Like, it’s just—it’s—I thought that we were gonna be pushing to keep the arc—the coming-out arc. But like, it’s just here in plain lettering that this is a coming out thing. Like, that now Mom has, like, started to accept that you’ve come out and who you really are.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: And you’ve brought over your friend, who’s also…a Slayer, slash a gay. [Jenny laughs] So she’s like, wow, this kid—this Slayer will talk to me about, like, what it’s like to slay. And I can get information, which I can’t get out of my own daughter.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: So Joyce is, like, all about it. Joyce loves Faith. Faith loves Joyce. Faith just loves everybody.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Faith is getting along with everyone famously except, of course, for Buffy. [both laugh] But she—Joyce has these lines like, "Buffy can be awfully negative sometimes."
Jenny: Right, right, well, she’s got this whole—Faith has this whole shpiel she’s doing about how she’s gonna win and they’re gonna lose and she just loves to slay, and she’s like, very bubbly and like, magnetic.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: So of course, Joyce is drawn in by this, as everyone is. And it also makes her think about things in a different context, as a mother. Like, oh, Buffy doesn’t seem to have this attitude. She seems so serious about it—
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: And like, maybe she shouldn’t be doing it, if there’s another person that could be doing this instead.
Kristin: Right, and she suggests this to Buffy. Maybe you should—you know, you got college next year.
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: This could come at a great time.
Jenny: Buffy’s of course like, "No, I—this is who I am. I have to do this, this is my sacred duty." And Joyce says, "I don’t want you to die."
Kristin: Right. And then Joyce finds out—
Jenny: That Buffy did!
Kristin: [sim] That Buffy has, in fact, died, which is horrible. And I, like, really sympathize with Joyce in this moment, you know, that she has, where she’s like, man, I just tried to take a step forward in this process and like, accept her and accept the fact that she’s the slayer. And like, just as I felt like I was getting forward motion, I found out that, like, my child, my only child, died at some point.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And I didn’t even know about it. Like, that’s a big thing. She also references the Slayer Pride Parade. I’m just gonna…say that.
Jenny: Uhh, yeah. Yeah, that’s pretty on the nose.
Kristin: Also, before we get to what I would call my favorite scene in the whole episode, maybe the series—no, it’s not my favorite scene in the whole series. I would just like to point out that Faith and I share a commonality with how hungry we both are, all the time. Faith—
Jenny: I’ve seen it in action.
Kristin: Right? Yeah.
Jenny: I can confirm.
Kristin: This is what—if you wanna know what it’s like to eat dinner with me, especially if I’m very comfortable with you—
Jenny: Guard your plates.
Kristin: You saw it here. Faith, very hungry, all the time. Kristin, very hungry, all the time.
Jenny: Bless.
Kristin: Now can we go to—I would—Jenny, I mean, the Sexual Tension Award obviously goes to Faith and Buffy. I mean, if—
Jenny: And this is the scene where they earn it.
Kristin: If you didn’t think that that was gonna happen, you probably should find another podcast.
Jenny: Please. You fools!
Kristin: [sim] This is not the one for you. And we’re so excited about the Sexual Tension Award in this episode, and probably future episodes, I’m just saying, that we made a new jingle.
NOTES: [SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays] Sexual tension award!
Kristin: This whole scene is just…my dream. It’s my dream. It’s like, if I had a dream and it was a great dream, it will be this scene.
Jenny: Just two Slayers, fighting with each other.
Kristin: Oh my god. I wrote in all caps for the entire—my notes for this whole scene are—every single one of them is a capital letter. [Jenny laughs] The first line is just, "Patrollin’ together" with a million R’s. [both laugh] They’re patrolling together. The next line is just, "Sexual tension," with a million N’s, all caps.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: Then I just wrote, "Sleep in the nude, something in your bod needs uncorking!" [Jenny laughs] "Think you can take me?"—it’s just all caps. It’s my erotic novel that I wrote. [both laugh]
Jenny: It’s beautiful.
Kristin: "Sleep in the nude, something in your bod needs uncorking, think you can take me?" [both laugh]
Jenny: Great. And if you wanna add "my dead mother hits harder than that." [both laugh]
Kristin: No, that’s a different conversation.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: That’s a different conversation. This—my erotic novel is—that’s the start and the finish of my novel. [laughs]
Jenny: [sim] Okay, fine, I know what your boundaries are now, got it.
Kristin: How long does a thing have to be to be considered a novel? Just three lines, right?
Jenny: [sim] Three sentences is good, yeah.
Kristin: Not even sentences.
Jenny: Mmhmm!
Kristin: Anyhow, this is great. Faith and Buffy are doing, of course, what any two people who are equally matched and who wanna make out would do. Right?
Jenny: [laughing] Uh-huh.
Kristin: Which is—they wanna fight each other.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: And they’re gonna—they were just about to do it! They were just about to quote—air quote, "fight each other." They were just about to fight each other, for real.
Jenny: Wow. You know, one time in college…when I made poor decisions and gave less thought to things. I was at a party with some—with a girl that I, uh, wanted to make out with. Who I’m pretty sure, based on the subsequent events, wanted to make out with me too. Somehow, like, we couldn’t figure out how we could make out with each other. [Kristin laughing] So the conclusion that we came to was that we should go outside and wrestle each other? While our friends looked on. So there we were, uh, you know, not very far away from making out, wrestling each other on the mall—
Kristin: Uh-huh.
Jenny: At school. And then—I was winning, of course.
Kristin: Of course!
Jenny: [sighs] My downfall—hubris! [Kristin laughs] So then I heard a terrible noise. [both laugh] I heard a terrible pop. I broke the ankle? Of the girl I was trying to make out with? So our activities were cut short as she was walked to a car—
Kristin: Oh, man.
Jenny: By me and another person, and then I think—either she went to the hospital then—I mean, she might have thought she sprained it and then she went to the hospital the next day and they were like, "Actually, it’s busted."
Kristin: Okay, Jenny, whatever. Did you make out with the girl eventually?
Jenny: Never! [laughs]
Kristin: Wow, so it really put—
Jenny: Missed opportunity.
Kristin: That is a very big missed opportunity.
Jenny: You gotta seize the moment.
Kristin: And I feel like you just one-upped my novel. [both laugh]
Jenny: I didn’t mean to!
Kristin: It was like, I had this novel, I was really proud of it. And then Jenny—just so you all know, Jenny paused the recording and was like, "I was just—I don’t know, I was kind of thinking maybe I should talk about this time I wrestled this girl." [Jenny laughs] And I was like, "Stop talking and hit record, you fool!"
Jenny: I just—you know, I wanna be respectful of our relationship and—mmhmm.
Kristin: Oh, brother. As though I haven’t wrestled girls in my past.
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: [laughs] Anyhow. We get vamps. And something important—and you brought up this line, which is not a part of my novel, but is a part of this series. First of all, before we get to the line. Faith puts a garbage can over one of the vamp’s heads, which is a great move.
Jenny: Nice.
Kristin: I haven’t seen that move from Buffy and I think it’s great. I think it should be worked into the repertoire.
Jenny: Absolutely.
Kristin: Love a garbage can vamp.
Jenny: Slayers can learn from each other.
Kristin: Right. So then, Faith says, "My dead mother hits harder than that." And we learn…that Faith can quip, too.
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: Faith can quip, too!
Jenny: And also that maybe her mother is dead.
Kristin: Well, yeah, fine. [laughs] But I was most excited to learn about the fact that she has the quipping.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: She has the quipping. She’s been gifted with the quip. [both laugh] But then, this scene takes a turn.
Jenny: Yeah…
Kristin: It takes a hard turn into, like, very real-ville, when Faith catches the vamp and just starts whaling on this vamp.
Jenny: Just pummeling! And saying things like, "You can’t touch me." She’s obviously in another—she’s very far away.
Kristin: Yes, yes.
Jenny: And that puts Buffy in a lot of danger. Thank god Buffy is able to turn the tables.
Kristin: I don’t know how Buffy was able to turn the tables. I watched this scene today and was like, ah—there were just, like, two vamps sort of like, flailing on her back. [Jenny laughs] Like, they’re not really trying to kill her at all. And she’s like, well, good thing they’re just playing a dead fish on me.
Jenny: Great to know where your limits are in terms of suspension of disbelief. Vampires, sure. A hellmouth, mmhmm. Zombies, mmhmm. Pat and her schnapps, yes!
Kristin: Yeah!
Jenny: Uhh, Buffy defeating two vampires?
Kristin: No, I mean, Buffy could defeat two vamp—of course! Buffy could defeat 40 vampires. It’s just that the way that it was staged was—
Jenny: For sure.
Kristin: It was a little rough. But—so we get this window into Faith. Because up until now, it’s been, like, all jovial, dinner jokes, having fun with Joyce—
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: Having crush on Giles, making everybody love her. And then we see, like, oh, something’s up. And Buffy is, like—immediately goes to Giles and is like, something’s up and this is scary.
Jenny: Yes. And, when she does go to Giles [Kristin laughs] and they walk and they talk, what’s Giles drinking out of? A green mug!
Kristin: A green mug! If you’ve been listening since Episode 1, Season 1, you know we have waited for a year to get here. [Jenny laughs] One whole year, two seasons plus.
Jenny: To the most beautiful mug in all the land.
Kristin: Yes, and don’t we have a—don’t we have a green mug song that you made?
Jenny: We have.
Kristin: Well, I don’t know that we can play this song every time we see the green mug.
Jenny: But upon its first introductory scene—
Kristin: [sim] Its first viewing? It should get its song.
Jenny: Let’s…do it.
NOTES: [Jenny singing "The Green Mug" jingle] Well, it’s a green mug song From the bottom of our hearts This very handsome glassware Will answer every mug prayer And Giles can drink in style And Giles can drink in style
Kristin: Oh, that was a beautiful song.
Jenny: Thank you.
Kristin: Thank you so much for making it, Jenny.
Jenny: Mm, any time.
Kristin: Before we get into kissing toast and khaki trousers—
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: I wanna hang back here with Faith, because we had—as we mentioned at the beginning of the episode, Jess Abbott, who you may know from the band, Tancred. Or you may know just from being the best Jess Abbott that ever was.
Jenny: The very best one.
Kristin: The very best one.
Jenny: I’ve done the research.
Kristin: Jess Abbott wrote this—the song for this episode with Jenny. I helped a bit, but it was, you know, a primarily Jenny and Jess thing, this one. And it was great, they had so much fun working on it. The song rules so hard. And we’re gonna just play a little tiny bit of the chorus, which is Faith’s part in the song, so you can get an idea before we go into talking to Jess.
NOTES: [Jess singing] The good fight, out all night, it keeps me high A short fuse, I can’t lose, I’m five by five All I need is some red lipstick and just a little…
NOTES: [song fades out]
Kristin: Have you ever heard something so amazing in your entire life? Ugh, and there’s more of it at the end of the epis—this is just a good day. Before we get there, let’s go talk to Jess Abbott.
NOTES: [CHIME]
Jenny: Wow, what a fantastic day in our lives to be chatting with the one and only Jess Abbott.
Kristin: Yeah, it’s a good day.
Jess: It’s actually night where I am. [laughter]
Jenny: I…don’t…listen.
Kristin: Is this how this is gonna go, Jess? [Jess laughs] Just contradictory all the way?
Jess: Uh, yes, I’m here to bring the attitude. [laughter]
Kristin: That’s very appropriate for this episode.
Jenny: [sim] How appropriate, yes.
Jess: I thought so.
Kristin: So we thought it would be very good to start with your relationship to the television series, you know. Do you like this TV series? Does it mean something to you? Tell us all about it.
Jess: Oh, absolutely. I actually only started watching it in full—I only became a Buffy stan probably, like, two or three years ago. And I—just, like, everyone had been telling me over and over to watch it, and I was like, "Okay, fine." And then I did and I was like, oh, okay. Then I watched it a lot and watched Angel a lot. And now it’s just kind of, like, constantly—I’m constantly watching it. I’m sure most people that are listening to this podcast, to Buffering and everything, are probably always watching it as well.
Kristin: Yeah, that’s how Jenny has always been.
Jenny: Totally.
Kristin: Just, for the last eight years that I’ve known her, always—
Jenny: Always, somewhere—
Kristin: Yeah.
Jess: Yeah.
Jenny: In the middle of those shows. [laughter]
Kristin: Do you—Jess, do you have attachments at all to this particular episode?
Jess: Faith is just always up to her same old shenanigans, so. [laughter] When I rewatched it—
Jenny: Well, those shenanigans are brand new right now.
Kristin: Yeah, first crack at the shenanigans in this episode.
Jess: Yes. But I mean when I rewatched it before we started working together on the song. I rewatched it and I was like, wow—I mean, she has her own character development, like, over the different episodes that she’s in. But, like, it’s not too far from where she comes—like, she comes in hot and she stays hot. Like, she’s just— [laughter]
Kristin: So you mentioned that you’re new to Buffy, or newer, right? That you came to it within the last couple of years.
Jess: Mmhmm.
Kristin: So do you think that there’s—like, how did that happen? How did it—you know, we’re almost 20 years after the show, so say we were, like, 16 years after the show when you came to it. Did somebody bring you into it? Was it—like, do you think that it will be as relevant as it is now forever?
Jess: I totally think it’ll be relevant. It’s—it was such a—it was, like, one of the first mainstream ways that I feel like women were—they were given this, like, really digestible way to understand feminism.
Kristin: Mmm.
Jess: And for that reason alone, I mean, there’s so many reasons, but just that one alone even could carry—that I think Buffy will for sure be around for a long time.
Kristin: Hell yeah.
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: I wanna talk to you and Jenny about writing this song. You know, usually Jenny and I write the songs together, but the two of you worked on this song and, like, really fun things have happened. So do you two wanna talk about it?
Jess: I think—like, we’ve done two sessions for it and it’s been really fun both times because, basically, Jenny has all these really great songwriting ideas. And then I’m like, "What we say something really obscene about boys?" [laughter] And…that just happens over and over. There’s so many ideas where I’ve said, like, what about this? And it’ll be something just, like, wily. And then Jenny’s like, "Mmm…okay, I’ll write that one down." [laughs]
Jenny: Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. I feel like…I mean, when I initially had the lightbulb of, oh my gosh, Jess should be Faith. She shouldn’t just write the song with me, she should appear in the recurring role of Faith, right? I knew that you would bring a dark energy to the role and to the writing process. Which is—
Kristin: Like a certain pleather-clad energy? Would you say?
Jenny: [laughing] Yes! Exactly.
Jess: Oh no, I mean, I guess what I meant by that was that your reaction to my random, wily ideas would be what would actually happen, had Buffy and Faith had a conversation about anything. And I feel Buffy would just be like, "Okay."
Jenny: [sim] Sure, sure, sure. If Buffy and Faith were writing this song…
Kristin: [laughs] So Jess, since people now have heard you in the context of Buffy the Vampire Slayer and they know that you’re wonderful, where can they find more you? Where can they hear more music of yours? Tell us, tell us, tell us.
Jess: My band is called Tancred. That’s T-A-N-C-R-E-D. And, um, you can find it on Apple Music or Spotify or YouTube or Soundcloud. Wherever your millennial heart chooses to bring you to music. [laughter] You’ll probably find something from Tancred there.
Jenny: I feel like it’s worth noting that your—that Tancred’s most recent record, Out of the Garden, has a lot of Buffy references that our listeners might really enjoy.
Jess: [sim] Oh, yeah. I did have an album come out in April of 2016 called Out of the Garden. And I do have several Buffy references in there, many of which are—I mean, they’re mostly pretty subtle unless you’re a Buffy fan and then they’re there. And I didn’t really think that a lot of people would really notice it. I was naive, and like… [laughter] sometimes I’ll be at a show and people will be like, "Buffy!" and I’m like…shit. [laughs]
Kristin: Is there a five by five?
Jenny: Oh, there is a five by five!
Kristin: Yeah, right? I thought there was a five by five.
Jess: There’s a five by five. That’s the most standout. The rest, I think, you’d really need to watch the show to pick up on them. They’re not, like, a quote reference like that. A lot of—a couple of the songs, I was just kind of, like, writing about some relationships in the show between some of the characters, but. [laughs]
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: So, great. Listeners, if you thought that this was your only stop for Buffy-inspired music, oh-ho-ho! You were mistaken.
Jess: You can go check out my gay Buffy fanfic album. [laughter]
Kristin: Awesome. Jess, thank you so much for being on the podcast with us and for writing a song. This was the first time that we’ve written a song with anybody else.
Jenny: Yeah, thanks, buddy!
Jess: Yes. Thank you again for having me.
Kristin: Yes, and welcome to the canon of Buffering music as Faith.
Jess: Oh my god.
Jenny: Yeah, so far we have, what? Three characters: Buffy, Kristin Russo, and Faith.
Kristin: [sim] And Faith. Yeah, Jenny sings from Buffy’s perspective, I sing from my own. [Jenny laughs] Or speak from my own, I usually speak-sing.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And now we have the voice of Faith. So if Faith has a voice in any future songs, Jess, I hope you’re up to the challenge of being that voice again.
Jess: [sim] Oh my god. I’m gonna cry.
Jenny: Please.
Jess: I feel like this is when a young artist receives their first, like, music award, and they’re on stage just, like, sobbing. And they’re like, "I don’t even know where to start!" [laughter]
Kristin: Well, we hope to hear from you more in a future Buffering song.
Jenny: Yes!
Jess: Yes, for sure.
NOTES: [CHIME]
Kristin: Oh my goodness. Jess Abbott, what a dream. Thank you so much. Also, we wanna let all of you know—so Jess, in addition to being an incredible musician, a huge Buffy fan, and one of the best people on planet Earth, is also really into astrology.
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: And so we took a little time with Jess and we talked about astrology as pertains to the Buffyverse, but most specifically, for this episode, how Capricorn Buffy and Sagittarius Faith relate to each other.
Jenny: Woo!
Kristin: And astrologically, if that’s kind of on the charts or not. It is, spoiler. [Jenny laughs] If you wanna hear that little segment of interview, it is up for all of our patrons, no matter what level you give at. You can go to bufferingthevampireslayer.com, click on Patreon and if you pledge at $1 or 5 or 10, that interview with Jess that talks about astrology and Buffy and Faith is up there. It’s super fun and Jess, thank you again so much for being a part of the podcast, and for entering the universe as Faith.
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: Woo!
Jenny: Alright, so kissing toast, khaki trousers.
Kristin: [laughing] Yes. Yes. That’s where my note was, "how old do you have to be to have your hands turn into hooves?" But we already talked about that. [both laugh] Green mug is here. We learn about Kakistos, or, I should say, Giles is like, "holy shit, Kakistos?"
Jenny: Yeah, heard of that guy.
Kristin: Holy shit, yeah. And then he goes off to do his research on Kakistos or whatever. And we have, now, Scott.
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: Scott’s like, "Do you wanna go to the Buster Keaton film festival with me?" and I’m like, you’re cute, Scott.
Jenny: And Buffy’s like, you’re cute, Scott. And then—
Kristin: And then…
Jenny: Scott is like, "I got something for you," and it’s Claddagh-pocalypse!
Kristin: [laughs] Wow, Jenny, you didn’t even warn me that you had another Claddagh pun up your sleeve.
Jenny: Ha ha ha!
Kristin: Yeah. And here’s the thing, right, it is [laughing] Claddagh-pocalypse. [both laugh] I mean, I don’t know, I think Claddagh-pocalypse might happen at the end of the episode?
Jenny: Yeah! [both laugh]
Kristin: But it’s—I just feel like it’s a little soon for him to have gotten her a gift.
Jenny: Also, a little soon specifically to have gotten her a Claddagh ring, which is like—
Kristin: A signal of things to come. Like, he says it’s like a friendship, which is what I want with you, but we all know that it’s friendship facing one way. And eternal love—
Jenny: [sim] Yeah, and the other way—yeah, facing the other way.
Kristin: Facing the other way. And I just felt like, I don’t know, this was a move that I wasn’t sure of. And as a person who has dated, this is a thing that makes me run.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: Like, it’s too soon. It’s too—you just had me with—
Jenny: ‘Cause I’ve never given you a gift.
Kristin: Never! I’d be gone!
Jenny: [sim] And it’s worked out quite well for me.
Kristin: Yeah, forget it. I—I would—
Jenny: Blegh!
Kristin: I hate a gift. No, it’s just too soon. But not only is it too soon, it’s a Claddagh ring. And of all the things, I mean, what are the chances?
Jenny: No, no, no. Also—
Kristin: [sighs] Yes.
Jenny: Faith’s watcher is dead.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Rest in peace.
Kristin: Right. And this is—now, once you find this out, like, you go back and you’re kind of clicking through all the information. This makes sense.
Jenny: Right, right, she showed up thinking Buffy’s watcher would be gone and she has a great excuse for her watcher to not be around, mmhmm.
Kristin: Right, exactly. And just like, the way that she’s acting out. I mean, I know—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: That Faith has a lot of backstory and we’ll learn more about Faith as things progress. But for now, you know, we know that Faith has a lot going on, and like, learning that her watcher died is a pretty huge piece of information to inform what we’re seeing here. So we go to where Faith is living—
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: Which is very similar to Buffy’s apartment in Los Angeles. Same idea, same general concept. Faith doesn’t have a ton of money. I don’t—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: You know, we never really—you don’t really hear about money in the Buffyverse.
Jenny: Right, right, right, right. I mean, it is $18 a day.
Kristin: It’s $18 a day, and there’s this great guy—I really—
Jenny: [laughs] "This great guy."
Kristin: I mean, I just enjoy him. I enjoy—because we’ve just seen everybody falling all over Faith for the entire episode.
Jenny: Right, right, right.
Kristin: Nobody can keep their shit together. Everyone, men and women alike!
Jenny: Uh-huh, uh-huh.
Kristin: Just tripping over themselves to get more of Faith. And so, you see this scene where she, like, tries her Faith-iness. And she’s like, "Well, I think you’re gonna own this place someday, hot guy!" [Jenny laughs] And he’s like, well aware—
Jenny: [sim] Of what’s happening?
Kristin: [sim] Of himself and her, and he’s like, "Ah, yeah. I’m not—that’s not gonna happen to me if I listen to broads like you."
Jenny: Great.
Kristin: I just really—I don’t know, I appreciated him. I was sad to see him go so quickly.
Jenny: So Buffy drops Kakistos information. She’s like, mm, cloven guy.
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah!
Jenny: And Faith is like, oh fuck. And starts packing immediately.
Kristin: Yeah. And this is, like, a real hard shift for Faith, because she’s been, again, so—like, apart from that scene where she really lost it on that vamp, we haven’t seen her, like, emote much, you know? Apart from being like, "I’m happy, I’m jovial, I’m here for a good time and a good time only." And so this scene where she gets scared and then gets sad is pretty upsetting, you know?
Jenny: Yeah. Especially—I mean, when Buffy is, like—they’re talking about her watcher and she’s like, "Oh, he killed her, didn’t he?" And Faith says, "They don’t have a word for what…"
Kristin: For what they did…
Jenny: "They don’t have a word for what he did to her."
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And that is, like…to me—to my ear and eye, that’s like, Eliza Dushku’s A, number one, best line delivery of the episode.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Very moving.
Kristin: Yeah, for sure.
Jenny: Nailed it.
Kristin: For sure. And also, like, Buffy doesn’t say, like, "oh, what happened to your watcher?" She says something really shitty to kind of pull it out of Faith. She says—you know, she says to Faith, "oh, like you protected your watcher?" Which is a pretty rough…it’s a pretty rough burn. Maybe she’s still burnt from Anne—getting her in Episode 1, she’s swinging back.
Jenny: [sim] Well, also, the last time Buffy and Faith were together, they—[laughing] there was a lot of friction.
Kristin: Right. Friction! Wasn’t there friction?
Jenny: There was.
Kristin: Okay, so—
Jenny: So, like, while they’re chatting, while they’re having this great heart-to-heart about terrible, painful things, there comes a knock at the door. And Faith checks the peephole and it looks like the dude has come back. But no, he’s dead. That’s the face a dead person makes.
Kristin: Yeah, that's—
Jenny: She opens the door anyway.
Kristin: But you know, through the little fisheye hole, you can’t really perceive such things.
Jenny: Right. And there’s Kakistos, and he’s like, "Faith!"
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: And, of course, motels are not the territory of anyone.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: They’re not, like, a residence that belongs to somebody. So he can just enter freely, which he does.
Kristin: [sim] Mmhmm. Mmhmm.
Jenny: Faith’s flippin’ out…
Kristin: Faith’s losing it. And Buffy comes to Faith’s rescue and is like, "We need to get out of here, we need to escape." And she says to her—she does another little bit of hell math with, "There’s two of us and one of him."
Jenny: Nice hell math.
Kristin: Yeah, nice, simple. You know, sometimes hell math can be simple.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: Two of us, one of him, Faith. [Jenny laughs] We got this, we totally got this.
Jenny: So they flee through the back alleys of Sunnydale.
Kristin: Of course, of course.
Jenny: Of course.
Kristin: And you know, Trick has a plan for those back alleys, man. He’s like, "You two, this way. You two, that way."
Jenny: Right, right, right, right, right.
Kristin: He does a great little maneuver.
Jenny: And they sort of flush the Slayers, basically, to the Mr. Trick and Kakistos LLC headquarters.
Kristin: [laughs] That should have been the name of our LLC.
Jenny: [laughing] Yeah.
Kristin: "Mr. Trick and Kakistos."
Jenny: [laughing] Nice. And they’re, like, talking more about what exactly happened with Faith’s watcher and Kakistos.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: And Faith’s like, "I ran." And Buffy’s like, "The first rule of slaying is don’t die," so like, they’re like—
Kristin: [sim] So you did—yeah, you did the right thing.
Jenny: [sim] Connecting. You did what you had to do. And then they realize, oh shit. We have allowed ourselves to be flushed directly to their headquarters.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: There’s about to be a lot more than two to one.
Kristin: Right. And so the vamps sort of, like, all swarm and they’re fighting. And Trick has this great scene where he’s with this random vamp, and he’s seeing that, like, things aren’t going so well. You know, there’s two Slayers, they’re fighting pretty hard. And he says, like, "You know, the modern vampire sees the big picture."
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: And he just sort of slides out of the room.
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: And I love this. And I love the idea of there being different philosophies with generations of vampires, you know?
Jenny: Totally!
Kristin: It’s just like, you know, we talk all the time about, like, millennials and the way they do these, and this and that. And he just has this line that’s exactly that, but in the vampire universe.
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: So special.
Jenny: And we’ve also seen something similar with Spike and Angel, you know—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: In the finale of the last season, with Angel being like, "I wanna destroy—" Sorry, Angelus—
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Being like, "I wanna destroy the world ‘cause I’m evil!" And Spike being like, "I’m evil, but I’m not that evil?"
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: "And if we destroy the world, I won’t be able to get Marlboros and… so."
Kristin: Right. It’s great, it’s just great. And so, right. So we have this fight scene. It’s a great fight scene.
Jenny: Great paint bucket kick. Very nice.
Kristin: Yes. Very nice. Not to be outdone by the garbage bucket, but—
Jenny: Right. Right, right.
Kristin: But Faith, you know—Buffy tries to kill Kakistos with a regular stake, and it doesn’t even come—it just, like, clatters—
Jenny: [sim] It just breaks against him or something.
Kristin: Yeah, clatters down the floor. And then Faith uses a two-by-four—
Jenny: Like, a beam!
Kristin: The beam. Not a five by five, but a two-by-four.
Jenny: [laughing] Right, right, right, right, right.
Kristin: And plunges it into Kakistos’ heart. And Kakistos dies—dies kind of an underwhelming death, for like, this vamp that’s supposed to be so old.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: It’s just like, if the Master, like, turned into black hornets—I know that’s not what happened, everyone. [Jenny laughs] Don’t write me emails, I know it wasn’t hornets. But like, you know what I mean? Like, the Master had this crazy death and left behind a skeleton ‘cause he was, like, so old.
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: That I just feel like Kakistos deserved a little more?
Jenny: [sim] Yeah, there’s some inconsistency here.
Kristin: But all that aside. What happens at the end of this—
Jenny: The main takeaway is that the girls are so hungry.
Kristin: They’re so hungry!
Jenny: Yeah! [Kristin laughs] So, think about that. [laughs]
Kristin: So, you know, they go off to…satiate their hunger.
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: Together.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Like you do.
Jenny: With a…burger.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Probably.
Kristin: Sure.
Jenny: So…
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Buffy has learned something. Buffy has seen vulnerability in Faith and has seen what it was doing to Faith to hold onto something.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And then ultimately, like, what it was for Faith to be able to let somebody else share her emotional burdens. And Buffy decides to tell Giles what really happened with Angel. She tells him that Angel was re-ensouled, that Willow’s spell worked, that it was too late. That the portal was already open, that she had to kill Angel, even though he was himself again. And then she says, "man, it feels really good to be able to, like, sort of get that off my chest." And she leaves.
Kristin: And I love her—like, Sarah Michelle Gellar, I think, does a really incredible job in this scene—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Of delivering this information. Because it’s so nuanced, like, it’s not—she’s not as upset as, like, one might imagine she would be, reliving this. Like, it’s very apparent that she has processed so much of it—
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And that she really is letting go of some of the last bits of this. And she’s sad, of course, telling this story, but you can see the release as she speaks it.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: It’s really powerful.
Jenny: Yeah, it’s incredible. And so, after Buffy leaves, Willow’s like, "Listen, Giles, I know you don’t think I can, like—I should be messing with magic, but I really feel like I can help you with this binding spell." And of course Giles says, "There is no spell."
Kristin: There is…no spell.
Jenny: Number one dad!
Kristin: Literally, the number one-est of the dads. I—so, as you know, I’ve only watched the series one time. And so I don’t remember a lot of the details. So when we watched this the first time, I, like, crumpled to the ground—
Jenny: [quietly] Yeah.
Kristin: In sheer, oh my god, no! Giles! I forgot—and the whole time, I was like, I don’t remember this binding—[laughs] like, I don’t remember what happens with the binding spell. ‘Cause there wasn’t a spell, and he just knew—he knew—
Jenny: Yeah. I mean, it’s so interesting to think about, like, the fact that usually in television shows, and life, there are teenagers and then there are adults.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: And teenagers and adults generally interface with each other in a very specific way. There’s a parent-child relationship, there’s a student-teacher relationship. But Giles, because the nature of Buffy’s work and their work together, he has—he’s sort of a friend and a father figure and a mentor. Like, he sees parts of them and he has access to parts of their lives that normal adults that they might be interfacing with wouldn’t.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: So he is a brilliant man, and he is observing Buffy and, you know, obviously she ran away, she comes back, things are weird, things are still weird—you know? Like, it has been—
Kristin: But he knows!
Jenny: That he knows something is wrong. And he’s just been—he came up with this fucking thing—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: To give Buffy more opportunities to possibly open up to him, because he can tell that she’s holding onto something.
Kristin: Ah!
Jenny: It’s so much.
Kristin: It just gets me. And it’s also, like, a really important thing. I mean, obviously, like, Giles is very much a dad figure, but Giles isn’t Buffy’s dad. Giles is, you know, her watcher and another adult in her life. And I think it’s really important too to note that, you know, she doesn’t process this with Joyce. She doesn’t process it with her mom. And that, for so many young people—and old people too, but like, in this context. For so many teenagers, there are other adults in their lives that they can open up to in ways that they can’t open up to their parents. And it’s so important to have those relationships, you know? I mean, I had teachers that I will never forget, ever—
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Who shaped core pieces of me, and who knew those core pieces of me better than my parents did in those years. Because it was easier for me to open up to them. So I just—it’s a beautiful—obviously, we all know it’s a beautiful relationship, but this—whew!
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: It’s a real moment. It’s real beautiful. And then you think—you think it’s over! You think, oh, they’re gonna go—there’s Scott Hope again.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: They’re gonna go to Buster Keaton.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Giles is a great dad. Whatever. Buffy just has to do—she’s just got one thing. Just one thing to do.
Jenny: [sim] Just got one thing she’s gotta take care of tonight, and then she’s good.
Kristin: Yeah, she’s fine. So. She fucking goes to the fucking place.
Jenny: She gets her boombox. She fires up "Close Your Eyes," the Buffy and Angel theme. [Kristin laughs] It’s like [sings theme].
Kristin: [laughing] Wow, that’s good! That’s really good, Jenny. I’m sorry—
Jenny: [sim] And she’s like, "I need to make room–"
Kristin: I’m so sorry I talked over it. People probably wanna, like—
Jenny: No, no, no, no.
Kristin: Take that as a ringtone and I ruined it for everyone. [laughs]
Jenny: Ha! Then Buffy’s like, "I only have room for a certain number of Claddagh rings in my bureau. [Kristin laughs] So I need to give this one back to the place it came—"
Kristin: [sim] Whence it came.
Jenny: From—yeah. So she places it on the ground—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: In the Angel mansion.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: And she says goodbye. And she leaves, and the lights go out.
Kristin: [sim] And you see, right, you see this very foggy—like, oh, she has now left, the door has closed.
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: It gets dark.
Jenny: Yes, but then.
Kristin: [sim] The episode’s over, isn’t it?
Jenny: It should be.
Kristin: [sim] Isn’t it? Where’s the credits?
Jenny: [sim] No, but there’s a spotlight! On the Claddagh ring!
Kristin: That’s weird. I guess we’re just gonna see the ring—wait—
Jenny: [sim] Oh my god, it’s shaking! Is there an earthquake?!
Kristin: [laughs] No, it’s not an earthquake.
Jenny: [sim] It is California!
Kristin: It’s not a bird or a plane. It’s naked Angel!
Jenny: Naked, soaking wet Angel falls from the sky.
Kristin: [laughs] He’s so naked!
Jenny: The most naked.
Kristin: The most naked. The most naked he’s been the whole time.
Jenny: Well, that we’re aware of. That we’ve seen.
Kristin: Right, no, of course, that we’ve seen. The viewer. I have never seen an Angel butt until now. I almost Angel butt. My notes are just, "Angel, naked." And "naked" is twice the size of the word "Angel."
Jenny: [laughing] Sure, sure.
Kristin: I just want you to know that. Okay.
Jenny: Proportions are important.
Kristin: So…wow. I wonder what’s gonna happen next.
Jenny: Only one way to find out.
Kristin: We’ve got a new Slayer in town who—
Jenny: Loves wearing leather pants!
Kristin: And she’s so hungry. And we have a wet Angel, who’s fallen from the sky.
Jenny: [sim] Returned from the hell dimension!
Kristin: We have Mr. Trick. We have—I mean, there’s just…
Jenny: There’s a lot going on.
Kristin: There’s a lot going on. So I think this is where we’re gonna leave it for now. I’m really excited.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: We’ve been waiting—like, when we started the whole series, we were like, "How about Season 3 though?" You know?
Jenny: Yeah, sometimes I would just be washing the dishes and just start giggling—
Kristin: [sim] And realize—and remember? Yeah.
Jenny: And be like, oh my god, eventually Faith is gonna get here. [both laugh]
Kristin: And that moment is here!
Jenny: It is. The time is now. [Kristin sighs happily] Well, wow. I am Jenny Owen Youngs, and when I’m not making this podcast, I’m usually writing and recording songs. You can hear some of those and learn more about me over at jennyowenyoungs.com/buffering. And you can give me a shout on Twitter @JennyOwenYoungs.
Kristin: Yes, and I’m Kristin Russo and you can find me on Twitter @KristinNoeline, that’s K-R-I-S-T-I-N-N-O-E-L-I-N-E. You can also learn more about my work with LGBTQ communities and their families over on my website, kristinnoeline.com, or on the respective websites, everyoneisgay.com for LGBTQ young people, and mykidisgay.com, which is probably self explanatory, but is for parents and family members and loved ones who have a person who’s recently come out to them.
Jenny: Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram @BufferingCast, and you can always drop us an email at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin: Yes, and you can help us out by rating and reviewing us over on iTunes. It only takes a couple of seconds, it helps other Buffy fans find our Buffy community. It’s really awesome, we would love to have those reviews and ratings from you. And you can also support us over on Patreon. At bufferingthevampireslayer.com, you’ll see a little link for Patreon. And you can join at the dollar or $5 or $10 level, and you get really fun stuff in return. Songs in advance of the albums, Buffy watches, a secret Facebook group, extra mail bag episodes—I mean, it’s just a good time. So you can go on over there and check all of that out.
Jenny: Also, we wanna let you know that we will be back with Season 3, Episode 4 on Wednesday, October 4th.
Kristin: Yes and to that end, if you’d like to know a bit more about our schedule, if you wanna know when episodes are gonna be falling, when you need to do your rewatches, we have updated our calendar through The Wish. So—and I believe that comes up sometime in November. So through November, you can see the production calendar, which we will do our best to stay on top of. And you can see when our off weeks are and when our on weeks are, so we are just so organized! Who’s more organized than us?
Jenny: Z—no one.
Kristin: No—z’no one.
Jenny: Z’no one.
Kristin: Z’no people! And we’ll be going past The Wish as we go further into the season and keeping that as updated as we can. Also, we wanted to let you know that if you live in the St. Petersburg, Florida area of the United States, there’s a very fun event happening this weekend. There is a 20-piece orchestra, they’re called The Florida Bjorkestra. And they are performing the music from "Once More, With Feeling." You can find out more information on our Patreon page. We’re gonna put up a little clip of a video, but we’re gonna play the audio from this. This is just a rehearsal of theirs, just a little clip from a little song. If you know the episode, you’ll know it. If you don’t, you don’t. So don’t worry, there’s no spoilers here. But just take a listen for a second.
NOTES: [Orchestra performing part of "Walk Through the Fire"]
Kristin: [sighs happily] It just like—it makes chills go throughout my entire body. It’s so beautiful. If we were anywhere near Florida, we would be going ourselves. But we are gonna send in a little video that will be played during the event, so you will get to see us if you’re there, just in video form. And the little clip that we just played is a video, and so I’m gonna post the video on our Patreon page. And you can find out all the information about that event in that post. You don’t have to be a patron supporter, the link is public. So you should check it out if you’re in the area. It just sounds so fun!
Jenny: Yes, I wish we were there!
Kristin: Me too.
Jenny: Okay. I think that does it for us, so until next time…
Both: AWWOOOOOOOOO!
Kristin: [whispers] Faith! [Jenny and Jess performing "Faith, Hope & Trick" off the album "Songs from Season 2" by Buffering the Vampire Slayer] [Jenny] Back to school and that Snyder’s still gunnin’ for me Yeah, I’m here but I can’t say I’m here totally ‘Cause I feel like the whole world is trapped behind glass I keep trying to get through, but I get nowhere fast And outside The Bronze, someone’s doppelgangin’ me Why is she slaying my vamps and calling me "B"? [Jess] The good fight, out all night, it keeps me high A short fuse, I can’t lose, I’m five by five All I need is some red lipstick and just a little luck When I get done slayin’, gotta eat and maybe… [Jenny] Fuck, Scott wants to date me, wants to Claddagh and chill But I’m too scared to feel all the things that I will The last boy that I loved left a lot to unpack I had to send him to hell, now he’ll never come back [Jess] But boys are just fun machines, boys are a snack The good fight, out all night, it keeps me high A short fuse, I can’t lose, I’m five by five You should really try to loosen up and find a little fun If you focus on the right-now, there’s no feeling that you can’t outrun [Jenny] I know a thing or two about private pain The look I see in your eyes is just the same As mine, as mine [Jess] You’re dead right, the good fight is all I have I’m not half as hard as I like to act I’ve been fighting on my own for so long, forgot how this works Usually I’m gone before I care enough to hurt [Jenny] I watched my friend face her demons and it gave strength to me Guess it’s time that I finally come clean…