Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 2.09: What’s My Line (Part 1)
Jenny: Hello, dear friends. As you may know, Friday March 10th was the 20th anniversary of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, the television series, debuting in the United States. In observation of this global holiday... [Kristin laughs] I wrote a special song called "Demons to Fight" inspired by my personal experience of being impacted by this show. You can download that song for free by visiting bufferingthevampireslayer.com.
Kristin: It’s really good.
Jenny: Aw, thanks.
Kristin: It really is, it’s so great! And thank you for writing it.
Jenny: Thanks for making me write it.
Kristin: You’re wel – I did make you write it. [Laughs] Before we get into today’s episode, the other thing we wanted to let you know is that we have new merchandise. I say that hesitantly, because we have sold through two runs of the new shirts thus far. We have a new shirt that says "Just Keep Fighting" designed by Allison Weiss and a new shirt that says "Smash the Demon Lizard Patriarchy" designed by Isabella Rotman. They are in our store which you can find by going to that same website, bufferingthevampireslayer.com, and just clicking on Store. And we are doing our best to keep them in stock, thank you so much for the overwhelming response. The designs by both of those two people were phenomenal and we love them just as much as you. And we also have a brand new pin in the store that is taken from the design from Kristine Thune. It’s a little moon with a little stake and a little hand…
Jenny: Yay!
Kristin: It’s enamel and it rules. So you can go on over and get yourself some Buffering merch if you want, and if it’s out of stock just be patient, follow us on Twitter or on Facebook @bufferingcast and we will let you know when we restock those items. We’re doing our best. [Laughs]
Jenny: Yes. Okay, so with all of that under our belts, let’s do this.
NOTES: [Theme Music]
Jenny: Good day and welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a…
Kristin: [Laughing] Good day.
Jenny: Podcast…
Kristin: She said "good day"!
Jenny: [Loudly] Where we’ll be watching…
Kristin: She changed it up folks. [Laughs]
Jenny: And discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer , one by one. I am Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: And I am Kristin Russo and this week we are talking about Season 2, Episode 9 "What’s My Line (Part 1)." Stayed tuned at the end of this podcast every week, for an original song written by us, recapping the Buffy episode we are discussing.
Jenny: "What’s My Line (Part 1)" was written by [drawn out] Marti Noxon!
Kristin: Marti Noxon! The first!
Jenny: And Howard Gordon.
Kristin: Sorry, sorry, and Howard Gordon. I’m just excited about Marti Noxon. [Laughs]
Jenny: Me too. And directed by David Solomon. It originally aired on November 17th, 1997.
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: Just a few days before… my sixteenth birthday?
Kristin: Yeah! Awww.
Jenny: Wow. Cool.
Kristin: That’s so sweet. [Both laugh] This is the one where Spike brings in three professional bounty hunters to eliminate Buffy, while she ponders on what her profession might be if her fate wasn’t already sealed.
Jenny: Dun dun duuuuun.
Kristin: Duh-duh duuuuun. It’s been very hard lately to watch the first part of these two-part episodes and not watch the second episode.
Jenny: Mm-hmm.
Kristin: We did a live Buffywatch to celebrate the anniversary and we watched "Welcome to the Hellmouth" and it was almost impossible to not continue with "The Harvest." [Jenny laughs] I was like, Luke! What’s gonna happen?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: He’s in the crypt with the – okay. [Jenny laughs] But that’s that episode and this is this episode.
Jenny: Kristin just wants a Luke prequel spin-off series.
Kristin: I would watch a Luke spin-off series so hard. So hard.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: I would, I love Luke.
Jenny: Speaking of so hard…
Kristin: Oh boy! [laughs]
Jenny: You know what’s tough? Having to endure Career Week when you’ve already been fated as the chosen one…
Kristin: Ohhh, yeah…
Jenny: To slay vampires for the rest of your natural life.
Kristin : This is like, how elementary schools do, like, bring your mom to work day or – bring your mom to work. Bring your mom to school day. Like, they do Mother’s Day celebrations but some kids don’t have a mom or they have two dads or, like, whatever and they’re like, "What do I do on this day? Because no one took my family structure into consideration."
Jenny : Mm. Mhm!
Kristin : And this is what’s happening to Buffy here. Buffy is like, the fuck, guys? Like, why didn’t you take into consideration the fact that there might be a slayer in your midst, who can’t have a career because she will either be dead or still slaying vampires. You know?
Jenny : I don’t know if this will help Buffy feel any better, probably not. But... Career Week seems like kind of a sham?
Kristin : Yeah. Xander calls it out right at the jump. Like, right at the start. Xander is like, I don’t understand how these "tests" that we’re taking could possibly determine who we’re gonna be for the rest of our lives. Which, he’s saying in the context of Career Week, but I read… heard, whatever, as a commentary on standardized testing.
Jenny : Wow.
Kristin : You know?
Jenny: Yeah, great point.
Kristin: I have a lot of feelings towards standardized testing. Don’t we all? [both laugh] C’mon! We do. You don’t have feelings about –
Jenny : No, I do have feelings about – but the idea of standardized testing as something a lot of people have, like, very passionate feelings about? I’m just not sure.
Kristin : I mean, a lot of people have either been to school or have been to school and also have kids in school.
Jenny : Okay.
Kristin : So I think it’s – oh, I’ll throw down on it. You know what I mean?
Jenny : Okay, no need to throw down.
Kristin : I was raised – I went to a school that was very anti-standardized testing. And so I think I’ve had it in my brain for a long time that making people take tests to measure their aptitude is a pretty tricky thing. And I agree with you, that for careers, it’s super tricky as well. How do you – come on.
Jenny : Do you like shrubs? [Kristin laughs] I mean, it’s so… there’s a prison guard booth, specifically? Like, it just seems too… it’s too micro and too macro simultaneously.
Kristin : Wow. But here we are.
Jenny: Talking about it anyway.
Kristin: And you know who loves career day? Principal Snyder.
Jenny : Well, I don’t know if he loves it, so much as he endures it and embraces it as something children don’t like. Maybe?
Kristin : Right, well that’s – I think that’s what it is. I think that Principal Snyder loves anytime that he has authority over the students and can make feel horrible about themselves.
Jenny : Right.
Kristin : Which happens here. But let’s start at the beginning. So, we enter this episode in the classic fashion… of a banner pan-down. We focus in on "Career Day" and then we pan down. And I remember this move from "Halloween," ‘cause we focused in on the jack-o-lantern sale. Whatever it was… it was like Bob’s Pumpkin Patch. Pan down.
Jenny : Yep, yep, yep. We also may have seen a similar thing in "Inca Mummy Girl" at the Natural History Museum Cultural Exchange Exhibition.
Kristin : And who knows what we saw for the Science Fair. A lot of – you know, you got to give Sunnydale High School some credit. A lot of extracurricular activities.
Jenny : Yeah, yeah. Also, remember when Buffy was painting that banner? For parent/teacher night?
Kristin : Yeah! Right? They love a banner. They love a good banner.
Jenny : Well, think back to your High School experience –
Kristin : Yeah, a lot of banners.
Jenny : The occurrence of banners. They were everywhere . You know who was always making banners at my school?
Kristin : Who?
Jenny : The cheerleading squad.
Kristin : Oh. You were very observant of the cheerleading squad at your high school?
Jenny : Well, not in a like a "hey, ladies" way. It was – because I – it was just a different time for me. I was like, [snidely] huh, cheerleaders! Huh, football! Huh. You know?
Kristin : Ah. Little did you know that that feeling was actually masking your true feeling, which was fear that at any moment they might break out into synchronized movement.
Jenny : Yes! Thus rendering me, you know, out of control of my mechanical functions.
Kristin : Yeah. You hate it. You hate when women move at the same time, in the same way. [laughs]
Jenny : [laughs] It disturbs me in ways I can’t hope to explain. But I also had, like, a weird fascination with the cheer – we don’t have to get into my whole cheerleading squad... thing.
Kristin : Because you kind of wanted to become a cheerleader?
Jenny : I didn’t want to be a cheerleader but I wanted to... kind of make fun of them for being cheerleaders but like, in a fun way. Like, I wanted all of us to be in on the joke and I wanted them to, like, make fun of me for being not a cheerleader.
Kristin : Aw. You saw in your world vision of… I mean, in your brain, a vision of a world where we could exist despite our differences –
Jenny : Exactly.
Kristin : And celebrate each other.
Jenny : That’s what I’m talking – by making fun of each other.
Kristin : Yeah.
Jenny : What a great world that would have been.
Kristin : A good natured ribbing.
Jenny : Yes! I’m always in favor of a good natured ribbing. Moving right along.
Kristin : Moving right along. Um, Kate is not with us this week. So I am going to carry the torch in talking about some fashion moments –
Jenny : Carry that torch.
Kristin : I will not… please. Last week's fashion episode with the tweed and the – I can’t touch Kate’s genius.
Jenny : That was extraordinary.
Kristin : But I do want to say that I definitely was a Willow, in this episode. Kristin 1997 dressed very much like a Willow. In this episode, she was wearing, right when she walked in, she was wearing like maroon corduroys or maroon textured pants with a green sweater that had orange arms. It was like –
Jenny : The entire autumnal palette.
Kristin : Exactly. If you were to set your table for Thanksgiving dinner, you would use Willow’s outfit.
Jenny : Yes! Seriously.
Kristin : Or Kristin’s 1997’s outfit. I really went the same Earth-toney route.
Jenny : You can even reference, for accuracy, our recent refabrication of our – of us as our 1997 selves.
Kristin : Yes!
Jenny : In celebration of the Buffy 20th Anniversary. You can find pictures of me and Kristin in our freshly purchased [Kristin laughs] and freshly washed Salvation Army outfits.
Kristin : Yeah, we’ll put that up on Patreon for everyone, so, you don’t have to be a supporter. You can just see it, so that it’s in a centralized location.
Jenny : Oh, yeah, a central location. Kristin also bleached a streak in her hair –
Kristin : I did. You guys!
Jenny : Which… very, very impulsively.
Kristin : I was driving to go swimming and I knew – Jenny and I had planned for the 20th Anniversary to go to the Salvation Army to purchase clothing ‘cause that’s what we did in high school. That’s where we got our clothing in high school, both of us –
Jenny : Mhm.
Kristin : And many people in the 90s. And we were gonna get as close to how we looked on March 10th, 1997 for the live watch that we did together with many of you. And I was like, I’m gonna go swimming and then I’ll meet you at the Salvation Army. And I’m driving to go swimming and on my way, I’m like, what would I have worn in 1997? Like, trying to brainstorm and all of a sudden it hit me. Oh my god! In 1997, I would have had my blonde streak. I had one streak of hair, if you are familiar with "My So Called Life," you will remember a character named Rayanne Graff, who I was obsessed with in high school. And I wanted to be just like her. And I was much more an Angela Chase. But I wanted to be a Rayanne, just like Angela Chase. And – [Jenny laughing] so I dyed my hair just like her. I got a blonde streak and I had it for years! I think I did it in 1996? Or maybe even 1995. And I had it until about 2003? Or something. Maybe even longer.
Jenny : Wow.
Kristin : It was a really big trademark of me. It was, like, my thing! And then I let it grow out at some point and I never got it back. And then, I think about it all the time. And I was like, maybe I’m too old now to have a blonde streak in my hair… and I’m back and forth, like a fool! Like a silly fool!
Jenny : Just waiting for permission.
Kristin : Yeah, waiting for permission from who ? And then I had this moment where I was like, oh my god. I have to do this. I literally have to do it right now. So I Yelped a salon and found one. I called them, they were like, "one streak? We’ll do that for $30." And I was like, score! Made an
appointment, texted Jenny and was like, "Meet me at the salon at 1:30!"
NOTES: [laughs]
Jenny : Oh my god.
Kristin : And there we went. And now I have a blonde streak.
Jenny : It was so great.
Kristin : And I feel like I’ve come back to myself.
Jenny : It looks tremendous.
Kristin : I’m not even like –
Jenny : It looks so great.
Kristin : Maybe via podcast, I sound like I’m being facetious in a way and I’m not. I feel like I have returned to myself –
Jenny : Yeah.
Kristin : In a way that I cannot describe. So, I can’t see it going anywhere anytime soon.
Jenny : Great. You know –
Kristin : Anyway, thank you for taking that blonde streak tangent with me.
Jenny : Yeah.
Kristin : Um… but I have Buffy to thank! You know?
Jenny : Thanks, Buffy.
Kristin : I already had so many things to thank Buffy for. And now, I can thank you for another thing, Buffy. For helping me find myself in another way. A hair-dyeing way.
Jenny : Awww.
Kristin : And I appreciate that.
Jenny : I appreciate it too, from the person who is not you, who gets to look at your blonde streak all day.
Kristin : Right. Thank you.
Jenny : It’s great, I love it.
Kristin : Thank you so much.
Jenny : So, Cordelia is mean to Xander. Buffy doesn’t know if she likes shrubs. [Kristin laughs] Buffy’s also very grumpy.
Kristin : Yeah, no, everyone’s grumpy in this episode!
Jenny : This is a big grump episode.
Kristin : Everyone is on edge! Giles is on edge, he yells at Xander. Buffy is on edge, she yells at everyone! Angel is on edge.
Jenny : Mhm.
Kristin : Who else? Spike!
Jenny : Very grumpy.
Kristin : So grumpy. He can’t – he snaps at Drusilla, which is –
Jenny : [sadly] Ohh.
Kristin : Is so sad! But so hilarious. Drusilla really reminded me of myself when Jenny does something like that to me. You know? Like, very… very dramatically wounded. You know?
Jenny : Yes! I know.
Kristin : Like, you will snap at me and I’ll be like, "Noooo." And then I wilt like a flower.
Jenny : Uh huh, yes. You do.
Kristin : And it works every time.
Jenny : Well...
Kristin : Just like it worked for Drusilla.
Jenny : [pause] Yeah...
Kristin : [laughs] Well, so, also when we see Spike and Drusilla, we meet a new vampire who I have called – I have named Harry Potter Vamp. [Jenny laughs] He’s the Harry Potter vamp. He’s got little spectacles, he’s very smart.
Jenny : Little sweater vest.
Kristin : Little sweater vest! [laughs]
Jenny : Studious. His name is Dalton. But let’s just call him, Harr – HPV. Wait! [both laugh]
Kristin : Welp! Good ole’ HPV! On the scene.
Jenny : Always there when you need him. [Kristin chortles]
Kristin : Ohh, wow! Jokes about STIs are my favorite.
Jenny : Great. Great, great great.
Kristin : Okay, so… [still laughing]
Jenny : I love his squeak when Spike yanks him up from the chair.
Kristin : Uh huh.
Jenny : So great.
Kristin : And then, you know, Spike and Drusilla have this moment, right? Where Spike snaps at Dru and Dru gets very sad and Drusilla’s using her tarot cards, which are – we read a little bit about the tarot cards, that Marti Noxon was like, "I don’t really know about tarot cards so I’m gonna make them fit what I –"
Jenny : Just put whatever I need on them.
Kristin : Just put – yeah, I would like this to be on the tarot cards. I’m curious to hear if any of you – I’m sure that a lot of you know a lot about tarot –
Jenny : Mhm.
Kristin : Who are listening. So I would be curious to hear your thoughts, if you have some thoughts on the tarot deck that we see in this episode. Write at us and let us know what you’re thinking. ‘Cause I – yeah, there’s –
Jenny : It’s very beautiful.
Kristin : It is gorgeous. And tarot, I mean, tarot decks… I don’t know a lot about them but I have had a few in my life and –
Jenny : Wow.
Kristin : They are very varied. You know? And they can – people do take, I think, big artistic liberties with portraying the thing that is supposed to be on the card. So I read that little thing about the tarot deck but I’m not 100% behind it yet. And that’s why I want to hear from somebody who knows more about tarot, because I think you are allowed to take certain liberties with the illustrations, so long as the general idea of the card is there? But I don’t know! I’m just… I’m just making stuff up. As I do.
Jenny : It sounded really convincing.
Kristin : Yeah, I can also do that. [giggles]
Jenny : I wonder… I wonder what the centipede card might mean under other circumstances.
Kristin : Yeah, the centipede one is the one that gives me the most pause. But, the tiger card, I feel like –
Jenny : Uhh, pretty sure it’s a jaguar.
Kristin : I’m sorry. Uh, jaguar card. I want you to know, listeners, that probably 70% of my relationship to Jenny is misnaming large cats [Jenny laughs heartily] and being corrected. It’s true!
Jenny : Noo!
Kristin : Okay, fine. But at least 10%.
Jenny : Yes.
Kristin : Yeah. [laughs] Anyhow, the thing I was leading to was Spike and Drusilla, after this moment of snap-dom, come together in the sweetest, most loving way. I love their love so much. Spike – cut right before the credits, Spike picks Drusilla up and spins her around in his arms because she wanted to dance but she’s too weak to dance, you guys!
Jenny : Oh, my god. It’s really nice.
Kristin : Oh, I love it.
Jenny : And also, kind of mirrors all of the spinning that Buffy does later when she’s skating at the ice rink, by herself.
Kristin: Oh, on ice. That’s true.
Jenny: Buffy on Ice.
Kristin: Jenny, I don’t – I know you’ve written a lot of songs lately.
Jenny: Yes. So many.
Kristin: I know there’s been a lot of music, a lot of Buffy music in your life lately. But I just want to say that Spike has – Spike certainly has a jingle coming his way. I know a lot of you are impatient for the Spike jingle. We will give you the jingle when it –
Jenny : When he earns it.
Kristin : Yes! And he’s not there yet. But, you know, I think that Spike and Drusilla deserve a collections love jingle.
Jenny : Wow.
Kristin : I feel stronger about their love at this point then I feel about anybody else’s love.
Jenny : Wow.
Kristin : Um, that’s a lie. Except for Giles and Ethan Rayne. [both laugh] Besides Giles and Ethan Rayne, number one love? Spike and Drusilla.
Jenny : Wow.
Kristin : So just think on it. Think on it.
Jenny : Okay, I’m gonna have a think.
Kristin : Great.
Jenny : And we’ll see if anything comes up.
Kristin : So, okay…
Jenny : Great. More songs. Great.
Kristin: So the credits, right?
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: We’re only twenty minutes in. [Both laugh] It’s like, the more we do this podcast, the more I have to say about every episode. By the end, by season seven, each episode will be like...
Jenny: Will be like segmented?
Kristin: Like four parts. [Laughs] So here’s HPV, stealing a cross.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Buffy’s all like, "Huh? Vampires, stealing?"
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And then she kills one but then HPV gets away.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: And you know what I really liked in this scene? That I don’t think we’ve seen before? She dusts that vamp, and then we see the dust splash into the little fountain pool.
Kristin: Yes. I like that.
Jenny: Great touch.
Kristin: Some metafitticks [sic] right there.
Jenny: Extreme metafitticks [sic].
Kristin: And then Buffy crawls through her window – [Jenny laughs loudly] despite Joyce being away in Los Angeles on art business.
Jenny: Art biz. By force of habit.
Kristin: [laughing] And in her room is Angel.
Jenny: Oh my god, oh my god, oh my god, oh my god. "Buffy, you scared me," said Angel, while clutching a small stuffed pig to his bosom. The fuck!
Kristin: Wow, first mention of Angel’s bosom in our podcast.
Jenny: [Laughing] Hopefully not the last.
Kristin: [Laughs] Yeah, it’s a great moment. I really love Angel in this, like, period of time. I really enjoy the like, "Angel falling for Buffy, Buffy falling for Angel" Angel? It’s very sweet and very endearing.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah. You know, they’re just a regular kid and her cradle-robbing, creature of the night boyfriend, so...
Kristin: It’s so nice though that they have a humorous rapport around this, you know?
Jenny: It’s great.
Kristin: They understand who they are to each other. And this scene is really important. Actually, I think this episode is a very important episode for Buffy and Angel. Because we’ve seen Buffy say she loves Angel and obviously there’s – their relationship is developing but there’s something really specific about their scenes in this episode.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: This scene in the bedroom where like, he’s looking at pictures of her as a kid and she’s telling him how...
Jenny: Uh-huh, uh-huh.
Kristin: What do you have to say? You can’t even –
Jenny: Que romantica! That’s all.
Kristin: Okay, that’s all you had to get out?
Jenny: Yeah. [Laughs]
Kristin: [Laughs] She was like… jumping up and down in her seat.
Jenny: No, I was thinking about later, how when they’re at the ice rink after–
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: They fought with the Taraka dude. How Buffy is like, "Oh this cut over your eye." And Angel’s like, "You shouldn’t have to touch me when I’m in vamp face."
Kristin: Uh-huh.
Jenny: And then Sarah Michelle Gellar spreading it on like somebody ordered fucking triple extra mayo on their goddamn sandwich. [mimicking Buffy] "I didn’t even notice." Like, touching his face and fucking just turning it up to eleven!
Kristin: Yes, I’m into it. Turn it up to seventeen!
Jenny: Yeah, no, I – well, I mean, uh, has she turned seventeen yet?
NOTES: [Both laugh]
Kristin: She’s about to.
Jenny: Thank God!
Kristin: But yeah, that was the other scene that I was gonna reference. But in the bedroom too, you know, it’s like, that moment that you have when you start dating a person and you get to a place where you start talking about your childhoods. You know, you’re starting to –
Jenny: Yeah, yeah. And then they’re like, [mimicking Angel] "There’s an ice rink out on route seventeen."
Together: " It’s closed on Tuesdays."
Jenny: And then you’re like, tomorrow’s Tuesday.
Kristin: But yeah, thank you...
Jenny: What are the odds?!
Kristin: God, I’m just sitting here trying to have a serious moment and old ba-dum-dum-tsch over in the corner...
Jenny: It’s both serious and hilarious.
Kristin: It is. But yeah, I feel that a lot happens between these two. But also Buffy is super snappy to Angel, like we discussed, very snappy. Also [laughing] Angel has a moment that I love where he’s like – Buffy’s like, "Ugh, well, this stuff is going on at school", and Angel’s like, "Career week?" [Jenny laughs loudly] And she… she looks at him like "Yeah, what?" and he’s like "I lurk." Which is just, again, calling out what we know to be true about Angel. He’s always lurking around some corner like a creep!
Jenny: Yeah, I like – since it seems like Sunnydale High School never closes, it just empties and darkens and then repopulates, but is never locked. I like to picture Angel sort of walking through the halls at like two in the morning, looking for like… looking through all the art classes’ work that’s hung up in the hallway...
Kristin: Awwwww.
Jenny: Looking for Buffy’s, like, still life.
Kristin: Seeing if it’s him? Yeah, seeing if she’s drawn his face? [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Or a mirror, an empty mirror?
Jenny: Oh my god, an empty mirror.
Kristin: To symbolize his face.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: Great, so back to the high school, speaking of the high school. Everybody learns their career assignments.
Jenny: Do you buy Xander as a prison guard?
Kristin: No.
Jenny: Here’s the only… like, the worst possible – like, right now Xander is sixteen. He could go anywhere. He could develop in so many different ways and we’ll see him develop in the way that he does develop, per the canon of the story. But I could see Xander ending up working at, like, Lichfield...
Kristin: Oh my god.
Jenny: Prison. I could see him being a guard –
Kristin: That’s true.
Jenny: At a women’s prison and being like – he could either be the guy that gets Daya pregnant, or he could be…
Kristin: Spoiler!
Jenny: Spoilers for Orange is the New Black . Or he could be Pornstache.
Kristin: I think he would be Porn – Pornstache is a nice – does anyone else call him Pornstache?
Jenny: Uhhhhhhhh. Yeah, that’s what they call him on the show!
Kristin: I just panicked that that was our nickname for him.
Jenny: No, no, no. No he’s… bad.
Kristin: He’s… he’s complicated.
Jenny: But he’s damaged.
Kristin: Right, exactly. Of course he’s bad, but he’s – yeah, I think that might be an interesting – okay, whatever, you know what? Enough Xander.
Jenny: The point is…
Kristin: We don’t need to get 700,000 more emails about Xander.
Jenny: I can’t wait for more Xander emails!
Kristin: Gahh.
Jenny: That folder’s really filling up in our inbox. Xander emails.
Kristin: We literally have a Xander email inbox, folder, file. But anyway, moving right along. The one thing I did want to talk about in this career conversation that they have in this moment? Is that Buffy gets assigned to law enforcement, and I just thought it was something to be noted that the way that they describe law enforcement here is "polyester, doughnuts, and brutality."
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Because we’re in 1997 and I think a lot of people, especially if you’re a younger person –
Jenny: Mm-hmm.
Kristin: Just visiting the series, you know, maybe you think that the conversation around police brutality and the –
Jenny: Is new.
Kristin: Is new. It’s very, very old. Much older than 1997. But I just thought it was interesting that, you know, that line could have been written verbatim today and been just as relevant.
Jenny: Mm-hmm.
Kristin: "Interesting" is the wrong word. "Totally fucked up," that’s a better word.
Jenny: Mm-hmm.
Kristin: Or collection of words. Then we go to the library. And there’s Buffy, being as sixteen as she can be.
Jenny: [laughs] So sixteen! Snipping and snapping. Talking about how she has no time to shop. She’d have as much time to shop if she were dead, as she does now.
Kristin: Yup.
Jenny: Because of her slayer duties.
Kristin: Yup.
Jenny: And then she says something about the whole nine yards.
Kristin: We looked it up! And turns out, the reason that that must have been in there and Giles didn’t answer her right away of where that phrase came from, is because kind of no one knows.
Jenny: [Spooky voice] Nobody knows!
Kristin: No one knows where "the whole nine yards" came from.
Jenny: Nobody knows.
Kristin: People are like, ahhh, maybe it came from… no one knows.
Jenny: She also says " have a cow, Giles." Which is not the common usage.
Kristin: What’s the common usage?
Jenny: Don’t have a cow. Man.
Kristin: Yeah. But she is saying that he is having a cow.
Jenny: I think it’s... peculiar.
Kristin: I think it’s great writing.
Jenny: I’m not saying it’s not great writing.
Kristin: No, I know.
Jenny: I don’t know what I’m saying.
Kristin: I’m just saying, it reminds me of the way you write lyrics. You know?
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: You like to turn things on their head.
Jenny: Just fucking turning it right around on me here.
Kristin: I’m just saying that that’s the way that you use words. That’s a great way to use – I love to turn phrases inside out. It’s great.
Jenny: [mimicking Kristin] I love to turn phrases inside out.
Kristin: Okay.
Jenny: Says my wife.
Kristin: Well, what I wanted to mention in this piece of the show is also the way that Giles and Buffy are interacting. Because a lot of times, I mean, there is like a Dad-liness to it. But more than that, there’s like an old married couple vibe to this exchange. You know, where they kind of get – they get to a tense place.
Jenny: Yup.
Kristin: And then Giles is like, "Do we have to be introspective right now? Can we just focus on the cross?"
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Which I felt – which reminded me of an old married couple ‘cause it reminded me of us.
Jenny: Yeah, I was like, didn’t we just end a conversation that way last night?
Kristin: Right, where like, you start to get into your emotions and then you’re like, you know what? We do this everyday. Let’s skip the feelings today. And get to the point.
Jenny: Just for one day.
Kristin: Let’s just get to the point. But yeah, there’s a lot of Giles-Buffy tension.
Jenny: Then we go back to Spike’s place.
Kristin: Who’s also snapping and snipping.
Jenny: He has some anger issues. He kicks a box. Also, Dalton bringing the wisdom.
Kristin: You mean HPV.
Jenny: HPV. "The slayer is trouble." Thank you, Dalton. Thank you for this helpful contribution to the conversation.
Kristin: It’s like, as though he wouldn’t have learned by now to not interrupt – I mean, to not to say anything about the slayer, first of all, ‘cause it’s an obvious trigger point for Spike.
Jenny: It’s triggering for Spike, absolutely.
Kristin: But like, he’s being romantic with Drusilla. Really bad timing, HPV.
Jenny: Yeah. Also, Spike brings up calling on the Order of Taraka.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: And HPV is like, "Don’t you think that’s overkill?" And Spike says, "No, I think it’s just enough kill." And I’d like to move – if the Order of Taraka is still in operation, I think maybe now would be a good time for them to adopt "Just Enough Kill" –
Kristin: Oooh, as their slogan?
Jenny: As their slogan, yeah.
Kristin: Order of Taraka: Just Enough Kill.
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: That’s nice.
Jenny: They could get t-shirts made…
Kristin: Aww, that’s so nice.
Jenny: Little caps.
Kristin: Yeah, you should let Willy at the bar know. He’ll communicate it.
Jenny: Willy!
Kristin: Yeah, it’s our first time that we see Willy. I’m skipping ahead a little bit, but first time we meet Willy. We’ll see Willy again.
Jenny: He runs a demon bar, no big deal.
Kristin: Yeah. But before we get to Willy, we get to Snyder.
Jenny: Ugh.
Kristin: Snyder has a nice moment here.
Jenny: Laying down a blanket of frost –
Kristin: Oh man.
Jenny: Upon the children of Sunnydale.
Kristin: Just coming in to tell Xander that he’s stupid and that –
Jenny: A waste of air.
Kristin: "An airborne toxic event" is the quote that he used.
Jenny: Yeah. Jesus…
Kristin: And then! Okay, so sidebar. There’s this little subplot that doesn’t go anywhere in this particular episode, and I actually don’t remember if it goes anywhere, where these two men in black, I call them…
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Whisk Willow away to –
Jenny: Behind the black velvet curtain that’s been hung in front of the student lounge.
Kristin: Yeah, where they’re serving canapes.
Jenny: Uh, being served canape by a guy in a white tuxedo jacket butler outfit?
Kristin: Yeah… and –
Jenny: Too fancy.
Kristin: She’s been selected to meet the head of bliggety-blah –
Jenny: Some software company?
Kristin: Some software company along with Oz, who has –
Jenny: The best. Look.
Kristin: The best look. He’s holding a plate of snacks, he looks over –
Jenny: And he’s staring at them and then he looks at her, and his moment of recognition – his neck, like, grows three inches.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: He’s just like "Whaa – [yells] it’s that girl!"
Kristin: Right, it’s like, you can see in his mind every moment that he’s said
to date: "Who’s that girl?" Click click click and there she is. So great, so, so great. So yeah, and then I go right to the DuLac grave situation.
Jenny: Sure. You don’t want to mention that there’s a pyramid tomb that they walk by in that cemetery?
Kristin: Oh. Didn’t Greenwood Cemetery have a pyramid tomb? Or two?
Jenny: I don’t remember that but I do know that Nicolas Cage either purchased a pyramid tomb –
Kristin: Ohhhh, boy.
Jenny: Or has ordered – he bought the space in a cemetery in New Orleans to build a large pyramid for himself.
Kristin: Mmm, that is interesting.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Is there like a magical purpose to that?
Jenny: Probably.
Kristin: Probably, right? Okay.
Jenny: There’s probably something.
Kristin: Well, I’m glad we talked about it. No, the thing that I like in this scene is this moment – and it was funny because I said earlier in the episode to Jenny, like, does anyone ever wonder – like, does Joyce ever ask Buffy why she’s wearing a crucifix necklace? Or sorry not a crucifix, a cross.
Jenny: Right ‘cause we don’t see them go to church…
Kristin: Right, like, we don’t get a very strong religious vibe coming from the Summers’ household. So you know, if your 16-year-old daughter who you haven’t raised in an extremely religious way is wearing a cross around her neck, it just seems like a point of conversation. But then I thought this was interesting ‘cause I felt my point was proven about their experience with religion –
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: When Giles is like, "Oh you know, this is the kind of place where they keep fingers or some other body parts of saints." [Jenny laughs] And
Buffy says, "Note to self: religion freaky."
Jenny: Pretty great.
Kristin: Which kind of underlines my point.
Jenny: But I think in the 90s, people were wearing crosses regardless of their church attendance.
Kristin: Actually, you know what? You’re right.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: You are correct, Jenny, I’m sorry I forgot. You’re right. So DuLac DuLac, DuLac…
Jenny: Right, so we find out that he – that the thing that was probably taken from the grave was a key to unlock the book that Giles had that was coded.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Then we see some Order of Taraka members arrive in Sunnydale. We see… basically Sabertooth?
Kristin: Yeah. [laughs]
Jenny: We see Sabertooth get off of a bus.
Kristin: We see Worm Man.
Jenny: Worm Man. Nathan Pfister?
Kristin: Yeah and I remember – so I’ve only seen the series once and I don’t remember a lot of details. I remember this guy.
Jenny: He makes an impression.
Kristin: He really made an impression on me. As soon as I saw him, I was like, "oh no, it’s the guy whose arm is made of worms."
Jenny: Oh, it’s Norman Pfister, sorry.
Kristin: Norman Pfister.
Jenny: So he promptly moves into the house next door to Buffy. And then we see a beautiful woman in silk pajama bottoms...
Kristin: [pleased] Ugh.
Jenny: Emerge from the hold of a plane.
Kristin: After knocking out the poor innocent plane-checker man.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: You know? But yeah. A beautiful lady in silken pajama pants.
Jenny: Perfect.
Kristin: I really do love her outfit.
Jenny: It’s amazing.
Kristin: Fucking solid.
Jenny: She looks incredible.
Kristin: Solid clothing choices. [laughing] Jenny said we weren’t allowed to say – I feel like it’s weird that we’re not saying her name and I just want to let you know it’s because Jenny has a plan… [Jenny laughs] She said to me before we started recording the episode, "This is how I want to play it…"
Jenny: I just want to refer to her as a beautiful woman –
Kristin: Until…
Jenny: In silk pajama bottoms until we get to a certain point. Is that wrong?
Kristin: So that’s – no, it’s not wrong but I felt like I needed to lift the curtain. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah, thank you. So then the Scoobies are in the library, Xander’s making some jokes. "Slay, slew." "Cross-a-matic…"
Kristin: " Slay, slew" is Willow , first of all.
Jenny: Oh, well, whatever. People are talking about stuff.
Kristin: "Cross-a-matic" is Xander and Xander has a really great – or they all have a great moment after Xander makes his jokes and he just like looks around the room?
Jenny: [they both laugh] They just fall with a thud and everyone’s like "Do we have to acknowledge that that just happened?"
Kristin: That’s a great edit. They gave just enough time for everyone to see – [laughing] my favorite moment.
Jenny: And they’re all researching DuLac and one of their sources apparently is an issue of National Geographic –
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: That Willow is reading that DuLac was, I guess, featured in, in some way.
Kristin: That checks out to me, it seems like the kind of story that National Geographic would cover. Do you think they had to get permission from National Geographic?
Jenny: Don’t know.
Kristin: Probably, right? I don’t think you can just put National Geographic on your show. Which is awesome if they did have to check with National Geographic and Nat Geo was like, "Yeah."
Jenny: Yes, we love your show.
Kristin: We love your show. Put us on there. We would totally have to write an article about DuLac. [laughter] And then Buffy is like, "I gotta bounce because I got to go ice skating."
Jenny: And all the dudes are like, "But you can’t." And then Willow’s like, "Oh no, it’s really important for her to leave and rest!" Which is great.
Kristin: Which is great.
Jenny: Helping out.
Kristin: Helping a girl out. I also just want to make a note here: Buffy’s wearing a different cross around her neck.
Jenny: It’s tiny.
Kristin: From this point on until the end of the episode, it’s a small cross.
Jenny: Yeah, maybe she’s having the cross that Angel gave her polished at the... silvery.
Kristin: I just – I wondered if there was like some significance and I tried – you know, we get emails from you guys so often that – when I ask questions like this. You know, people are like, "Well, Kristin, the red streak on his face was to mirror the blah blah blah –"
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: And it’s so smart and I’m like, "Man, they’re always so smart." And so I sat and I thought and I thought and I thought and I tried to think of a really smart reason why she would not have the big cross on and now she’d have the small cross and I couldn’t do it. So I guess that’s just not my role, it’s yours. If you have some theories…
Jenny: Please let us know.
Kristin: Please let us know. Or maybe they just lost the cross that day. For shooting. [laughs]
Jenny: Could be.
Kristin: Oh, the ice skating rink.
Jenny: What a montage.
Kristin: So –
Jenny: Flippety flippety doo.
Kristin: Sarah Michelle Gellar on her resume: professional ice skater? We learned with some cursory Googling that Darla –
Jenny: Julie Benz.
Kristin: Julie Benz, or – but maybe both of them [laughing].
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: Julie Benz was ranked like the 12th best ice skater in the U.S. And then later, Michelle Trachtenberg had to learn how to be a great ice skater for a Disney thing in 2005.
Jenny: Now if you don’t know who Michelle Trachtenberg is…
Kristin: Don’t look it up.
Jenny: Never mind.
Kristin: [laughing] We’ll get there.
Jenny: Yeah. Just hold your horses.
Kristin: So anyway.
Jenny: So anyway. Buffy’s just skating her heart out, waiting for her BF to show up when suddenly, she’s yanked out of the rink by the neck by –
Kristin: Taraka number one.
Jenny: Sabertooth.
Kristin: Sabertooth [laughing].
Jenny: They’re struggling, then Angel shows up and he’s like [growling] "I’m a vampire!"
Kristin: And then.
Jenny: And then...
Kristin: Buffy grabs a hold of the net and picks her whole bottom half of her body up and uses the blade on her ice skate –
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: To slit his throat!
Jenny: Um, that happens.
Kristin: It’s so great. I think it’s my favorite kill so far.
Jenny: Have you ever seen somebody get their throat cut and then not bleed at all?
Kristin: No, but you told me it’s was ‘cause it was on the WB and they probably couldn’t show it.
Jenny: I did tell you that. And I stand by it.
Kristin: So I don’t know if that’s true. ‘Cause I was really excited because there’s nothing more powerful than blood trickling out over ice or snow. It’s a very powerful image so when it happened, I was really excited for the image and then I didn’t get it.
Jenny: You were just really excited for that pool of blood to start growing?
Kristin: Yeah, but I – there’s this kill – if you ever watched Lost , there an episode of Lost where Sayid kills a guy with his thighs –
Jenny: [lusty] Ugh, yes.
Kristin: [laughing] He like snaps the guy’s neck using his thigh muscles.
Jenny: Hell yeah.
Kristin: And it has stayed with me forever because I was like, that is amazing, what a sick kill. And I put this kill right up there with it, it was a great kill by Buffy.
Jenny: Ugh, and what a perfect man. Okay!
Kristin: Sayid?
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: [laughing] I think people might have thought you were talking about Sabertooth.
Jenny: Oh, Sabertooth? No, no, Sayid is a perfect man.
Kristin: Yes. Sayid is perfect.
Jenny: Okay, sooooo… Drusilla can feel him die?
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: He dies and we see her flip his card over.
Kristin: Mmhmm. And I’m confused because Drusilla says there’s three. But Giles says they will come forever. And so I – maybe you know? Does Drusilla know that only three of them are on the case? Was Giles wrong?
Jenny: The way that I interpreted it, and I don’t remember if we get any more information about this, was that Spike was like, "Yo, Order of Taraka" and Drusilla had either just flipped over these three cards or subsequently immediately flipped them over and it was those three?
Kristin: Oh, those particular three.
Jenny: Yeah, so I don’t know if – I don’t know how Spike is paying for this. [Kristin laughs] Or maybe he only paid for three?
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: But who know – maybe we’ll find out in Part 2.
Kristin: Yeah because Giles makes it sound like –
Jenny: They’ll just keep coming.
Kristin: Well, because Giles – when he gives us the history or the mythology of the Order of Taraka, we learn that they are so dangerous because they have no earthly desires. And so that’s what I think threw me into confusion because, you know – yeah, fine. Maybe Spike paid three in quotes, but it sounds by Giles’s description that they don’t care about money, they don’t care about any – you know, that their only desire is to hit their mark.
Jenny: Well, is to hit their mark and collect their bounty.
Kristin: So they do care only about money. But no other earthly desires and that kind of brings us to this scene between Giles and Buffy and the Scooby Gang –
Jenny: Mmmm.
Kristin: Where he scares the shit out of Buffy, Giles does. Or at least Giles in combination with Angel. And it leads to this scene where Buffy is walking down the school hallway and there are a couple of funny moments in this scene, like when the guy – the teacher combing his hair hits the sound cue, right? [Jenny laughs] That’s pretty great. But Buffy is kind of having an anxiety attack of some form, I think, in this scene. And I say that as somebody who has had anxiety attacks where, you know, she’s really – the world is kind of closing in on her and she doesn’t know what is real and what is not, kind of a deal? And she winds up pinning Oz up against the wall and then she’s kind of in a daze. She walks to her house, she passes her house and of course, she eventually winds up at Angel’s. She’s really scared.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And this is really only the sec – maybe the third time we’ve seen Buffy this scared, you know?
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Or seen Buffy scared. One being of course, she was afraid of the ventriloquist dummy. [Jenny laughs] She had a very off episode that episode. But then, you know, "Prophecy Girl"
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: She’s obviously very scared. But she has two people who usually are trusting her to fight, telling her to hide. So you kind of get where her fear is coming from. And lucky for us, that means we get to see a whole bunch of the inside of Angel’s apartment.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: We’ve seen the fridge before.
Jenny: [laughs] Right. I feel like his apartment was sadder the last time we were there. And now it has a statue in a glass case –
Kristin: It does.
Jenny: With very museum-like lighting.
Kristin: Very nice desk area. I like Angel’s desk area.
Jenny: That work station.
Kristin: A good chair, his tousled twin bed covers. [laughs]
Jenny: Is it a twin?
Kristin: It’s very small, yeah.
Jenny: Mmmm.
Kristin: It’s a very small bed which does not add up as Angel, to me. I feel like Angel would have a king-size bed.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: With like, red velvet blankets. Which he does have, the blankets.
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah.
Kristin: But the bed, it just – I would have thought it would be bigger. But yeah, so we get to see Angel’s apartment, Buffy is staying there, hiding.
Jenny: Yeah and she kind of falls asleep.
Kristin: Yeah and this also reminded me of the fact that in the 90s – ‘cause I was like, "Man, Joyce is away" – the only way that Joyce can reach Buffy is by calling the house phone.
Jenny: And Buffy’s not there.
Kristin: And Buffy’s not there. And Buffy hasn’t really been there? And it reminded me of the fact that now, you know, your kid goes, whatever – you can reach them at any point in time.
Jenny: Constant contact.
Kristin: [singing] Constant contact…
Jenny: What’s that song you’re singing?
Kristin: " Constant Craving".
Jenny: Oh. I don’t know that song.
Kristin: Wha – ? Jenny.
Jenny: Anyway.
Kristin: You know – okay. We’ll talk about that off air. But yeah, so I just remembered that my mom couldn’t reach me unless I was in a place where she knew where I was. It’s just a different way of being a parent back then.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Anyway. Luckily, I don’t think Joyce calls. So we’re fine.
Jenny: Right. She’s busy with art. I want to hop back for just a second –
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Because there’s something that nobody cares about except me that I’d like to talk about and something that’s important to the arc here.
Kristin: I am certain that at least one other person cares about whatever it is you’re gonna say.
Jenny: Okay well, the thing that I care about is that they just slice the Taraka Sabertooth guy’s throat with an ice skate and leave him there on the ice. When the rink opens tomorrow – [Kristin laughs] do the rink attendants just happen upon…
Kristin: They get that old zamboni out, you know what I mean?
Jenny: Oh boy. I know what you mean.
Kristin: I just really wanted an excuse to say "zamboni" so thank you.
Jenny: And you found it, that’s great.
Kristin: [laughing] Thank you for giving it to me.
Jenny: Now the second thing about that scene that I’d like to mention that we didn’t mention is that a beautiful woman in silk pajama bottoms [Kristin laughs] sees Buffy making out with a vampire.
Kristin: Oh right, of course. Sorry, I did miss that. That’s a key, key moment.
Jenny: So that is... important.
Kristin: And she is like "What. The. Fuck."
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: That’s her inner monologue. And then…
Jenny: Angel pays a visit to his old pal Willy the bartender. The demon bartender.
Kristin: Willy, doing his best job at the stereotype of an Italian barkeep.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Which I enjoy, as an Italian.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: Sorry, I know –
Jenny: Feels like home?
Kristin: Feels like home. ‘Cause you know, stereotypes sometimes are real accurate and let me tell you what, I know a lot of Willies. That’s all.
Jenny: I know some Willies too. [Kristin laughs] I’m from New Jersey. You’re from Long Island.
Kristin: Yeah, a lot of Willies in Long Island – sorry, in New Jersey and on Long Island.
Jenny: There it is.
Kristin: That is how you say those things. Um, right.
Jenny: So while Angel is questioning Willy the reluctant snitch…
Kristin: Mmhmm. [laughs]
Jenny: Somebody shows up and thwaps him over the head. And it’s a beautiful woman in silk pajama bottoms.
Kristin: Angel really milks the, like, head shaking after punch situation? I feel like everytime Angel gets punched, there’s an extra couple of seconds –
Jenny: There’s like a "boing boing boing"
Kristin: Yes. [laughter]
Jenny: And while they’re fighting, we see the silk pajama bottom wearing beautiful woman speak for the first time.
Kristin: Does she – she speaks while they’re fighting? I thought she spoke for the first time when she locked him in the cage.
Jenny: Well, she actually says, "Now I think it’s funny" and then closes the door.
Kristin: Oh, okay.
Jenny: So this is the point at which I would like for you to share what you learned on the internet re…
Kristin: Right, well you had told me this. So Jenny has watched a lot of the DVD commentaries…
Jenny: [laughs] Yes, I have.
Kristin: Well, that’s – I mean, I think that’s a good resume builder for this podcast.
Jenny: Thank you.
Kristin: And so you had told me before this – because when we first watched the series together, I was like, "What is the deal with her accent?" Like, come on, what? It sounds so… to me, it sounded very inauthentic, it sounded off the mark, it sounded almost like a stereotype of a Jamaican accent. And Jenny let me know that on the DVD commentary, Marti Noxon actually talks about the fact that Kendra – I named her –
Jenny: Kendra.
Kristin: Was I allowed to name her now?
Jenny: Now is a good time.
Kristin: Great. Kendra was not intended to have an accent, initially. It was a last minute decision, they brought a dialect coach to set who, for whatever reason, trained her to speak in this very specific accent from an obscure region of Jamaica. And then I’m reading now from Buffy ’s wiki that says "cast, crew, fans, and even Bianca Lawson herself have stated that it sounded like a very bad impersonation of a common Jamaican accent." So –
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: So yeah, this is just one of those things where – oh, you know, something happened that was off the mark. It wasn’t done for lack of try – it was almost like they tried so hard… this guy, whoever the dialect coach was, tried so hard to make it something that it wound up –
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Sounding like not a good thing.
Jenny: [laughing] No.
Kristin: Not a great thing.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: So Kendra is like, "Yo, the light’s gonna come in and kill you. Peace out. You’re a vampire."
Jenny: Right. Also, somehow Angel’s shirt gets totally opened while they fight.
Kristin: Somehow Angel’s shirt always gets totally – you know what I mean?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Angel’s always like, "oops…"
Jenny: [they both laugh] My buttons just keep falling off…
Kristin: So then Willow’s asleep at the library, which is important because when she wakes up…
Jenny: She says, "Don’t warn the tadpoles."
Kristin: "Don’t warn the tadpoles" and we learn that Willow has a fear of frogs.
Jenny: Great.
Kristin: Great little character thing to note.
Jenny: And then Giles informs her, like, "Oh, I figured out what the book is for. It’s how to heal a vampire who is very sick." And Willow’s like "Like Drusilla?"
Kristin: And Cordelia and Xander have been sent to Buffy’s house to see where she is.
Jenny: And you know what’s a great outfit to wear when –
Kristin: Oh god.
Jenny: You’re on the hunt to find where your friend is? Take a polo shirt but then cut the sleeves off but then make it extra long so it’s a dress –
Kristin: Yes, yes.
Jenny: And then tie a sweater around your waist.
Kristin: Yes, yes, yes.
Jenny: Do all those things.
Kristin: My sexuality is Cordelia Saturday looks.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: [laughing]
Jenny: Great.
Kristin: Sorry but I’m into Cordelia’s Saturday digs and this moment that happens between Cordelia and Xander was actually – people tweeted this at us constantly when we were – before the election cycle, this last election.
Jenny: Oh, yes.
Kristin: When we were in the locker room segment of the nightmare that is the now current administration. Because we get the line verbatim from Xander here, where Xander – you know, Cordelia is like, "Why’d you call me just to get a ride? What am I, mass transportation?"
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Xander says, "Well, that’s what a lot of the guys say but you know, that’s just locker room talk."
Jenny: The. Patriarchy! Hard at work!
Kristin: Hard at work, this is blatant patriarchy at work here. Cordelia doesn’t miss a beat, she comes right back with a retort for Xander. And I would like for us to play the Cordelia jingle for a different reason this week. For the reason of "Cordelia, we love you, and we are sorry that you have to deal, like the rest of us, with the patriarchy."
Jenny: Nice.
NOTES: [Cordelia’s jingle plays] Cordelia ( ah-ahhh) I love you Cordelia ( ah-ahhh) You’re perfect Cordelia (ah-ahhh)
Jenny: Yeah! [Kristin laughs] So then Norman Pfister shows up and he’s all like, rap-a-tap-tap, and Cordelia’s like, "Yes?" And he’s like, "Would you like some free makeup samples?" And here’s the thing. I don’t know if I buy Cordelia’s extreme enthusiasm about free samples.
Kristin: About it being free?
Jenny: I feel like she has a bar of what kind of quality of cosmetics that she’s using.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: And I feel like she has a routine and a thing worked out.
Kristin: Yeah, Cordelia wants to pay a lot of money for whatever she is using. It’s part of her status situation.
Jenny: Yeah, so this is a small hole for me. But I’m willing to look past it and we’ll find out next week what the result of Norman Pfister entering the Summers’ home is. Ah!
Kristin: Gosh, I know. That’s why these "to be continued" episodes are just – they just kill me. They just kill me.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: So right, Cordelia and Xander in the house with Worm Man. That’s the last we see of them before the episode ends. Angel is locked in a cage where the sunlight is slowly creeping towards him, he can’t break the bars.
Jenny: Ahhh!
Kristin: Really intense stuff happening and… Kendra and Buffy – now, here’s my thing with Kendra here. She’s a vampire slayer so – right? She’s Kendra, she says – actually, why don’t we – if there were ever to be an audio clip that we shared for this episode –
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Let’s actually hear Kendra tell Buffy who she is.
NOTES: [Audio clip plays]
Kendra: Who are you?
Buffy: Who am I? You attacked me, who the hell are you?
Kendra: I’m Kendra, the vampire slayer.
Kristin: Okay, so wow.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: That’s a big reveal, everyone. What is she talking about, she’s a vampire slayer?
Jenny: Yeah, what the fuck?
Kristin: There’s only one vampire slayer and it’s Buffy. But if we are to believe Kendra –
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: That she is a vampire slayer, what kind of vampire slayer is she that she is knocking out the airplane guy, who was just a person not doing anything –
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: ‘Cause Buffy wouldn’t do that to a person. And also, you know, there’s got to be a moment – I get it if she thinks that Buffy is a vampire ‘cause Buffy was making out with Angel and she saw whatever, whatever. But at some point during this fi – I think earlier on in this fight than what we see, Kendra would have probably been like, "you’re not a vamp, you didn’t turn into vamp face when I started fighting you, that’s a given." So I just find that a little bit odd, but I’m willing to let it go because I love this fight scene.
Jenny: So great.
Kristin: This is a great fight scene. I also love the moment when Buffy calls out, like, "Don’t make me do that girl fight thing." [laughing]
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: I think that’s fun.
Jenny: Nails and hair.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Then the old curtain over the head trick.
Kristin: Ah, the old – one of Buffy’s top moves, the old "drape ya and then kick ya."
Jenny: [laughing] Yeah.
Kristin: Put this drape over your head and now I’ve got you.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: But yeah, they have a great fight here, a lot of good moves. Buffy gets thrown, breaks a table, the whole thing. And then they have what’s really beautiful, the ending scene of this episode where they’re both in stance, in fight stance, asking each other "who are you" and "who are you?"
We get this reveal: "I’m Kendra the vampire slayer."
Jenny and Kristin: Whaaaaat?
Kristin: [laughing] To be.
Jenny and Kristin: Continued!
Jenny: So great.
Kristin: The only thing we didn’t do is the Sexual Tension Award.
Jenny: Yeah, so many great options.
Kristin: Yeah, a lot of great options, this episode, I agree.
Jenny: Like Willow and Career Week?
Kristin: [laughs] Yep.
Jenny: Oz and the canape?
Kristin: Oz and the canape, for sure in the running.
Jenny: Hot hot hot.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Principal Snyder and authority?
Kristin: Yes! So many places that we see sexual tension. I personally would like to give it, though, to Buffy and vamp face Angel.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: I think they deserve it. I think –
Jenny: It’s real.
Kristin: It is real, it’s very real. I also want to give it to them because I’m sure filming that makeout scene was hilarious .
Jenny: With all of the prosthetics and makeup, mm-hmm.
Kristin: With all of that vamp makeup? Oh god they had to have such a good time doing that.
Jenny: No doubt.
Kristin: It just seems real hilarious. So congratulations, Buffy and Angel. You have won.
Jenny: Your trophy is in the mail.
Kristin: Yeah, you’ll see it soon.
Jenny: Thanks so much for joining us this week. I’m Jenny Owen Youngs and when I’m not watching Buffy the Vampire Slayer, I’m writing songs and recording those songs. You can learn more about me and hear some of those songs at jennyowenyoungs.com/buffering and you can give me a shout on Twitter at @jennyowenyoungs.
Kristin: And I’m Kristin Russo, you can find me on Twitter at @kristinnoeline and you can also learn more about my work with Everyone is Gay and My Kid is Gay, two organizations that I run for LGBTQ young people and their families as well as all the other stuff I do over on my website at kristinnoeline.com. That is K-R-I-S-T-I-N-N-O-E-L-I-N-E.
Jenny: You can find "Buffering the Vampire Slayer" on Facebook and Twitter at @bufferingcast and you can drop us an email at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin: You can support our work by heading on over to our Patreon page, patreon.com/bufferingcast. You can give at the $1, $5, or $10 level and get all sorts of fun things, notably, the mp3 files of the songs that we put up every week, Q&A videos with Jenny and I, spoilers that Jenny has accidently dropped –
Jenny: Hey!
Kristin: [laughing] On live episodes and all other sorts of really fun things. You can also head on over to that Patreon page to see the picture that Jenny and I took of ourselves, dressed as ourselves in 1997.
Jenny: Hell yes.
Kristin: Everyone can see that, you don’t even have to be a patron. One more time, just so you know, up on our website bufferingthevampireslayer.com, you can also get that free download of "Demons to Fight", the song that Jenny wrote to celebrate 20 years of Buffy the Vampire Slayer. And of course, if you have good things to say, we would love to hear them, most notably as an iTunes review. So if you want to head on over there and leave us a good review, we would be forever indebted to you. And I said last but not least, but there is one more thing. Just a reminder that we have new stuff in our store. We have patriarchy shirts, we have fighting shirts, we have Buffering shirts, we’ve got Cordette and Slayerette pins, we’ve got new pins that are made by Kristine Thune that are a slayer hand with a stake in it…
Jenny: Hell yeah.
Kristin: There’s a lot of fun stuff over there and you can find that also on our website. Thank you so much for all that you do to support us. This podcast is becoming better and better every day because of you and all that you do to keep us going. So thanks.
Jenny: Thank you so much. ‘Til next time…
Jenny and Kristin: Awoooooooo. [Jenny performing "What’s My Line, Part 1" off the album "Songs from Season Two" by Buffering the Vampire Slayer] It's career week At my high school Too bad my story is written in stone Like going to see the Sixth Sense And somebody ruined the end Already know just what my future holds I'm the slayer, I'm the only one I'll be fighting till my days are done You're the only freaky thing in my freaky life That still makes sense You're the only freaky thing in my freaky life That still makes sense Bounty hunters Comin’ my way The Order of Taraka is serious Giles and Angel are scared And I'm feeling under-prepared The walls are closin’ and my vision’s blurred I'm the slayer, I'm the only one Might be hiding until my days are done You're the only freaky thing in my freaky life That still makes sense You're the only freaky thing in my freaky life That still makes sense Someone attacks me Her name is Kendra Says she's a slayer To be continued...