Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 7.03: Same Time, Same Place
[CHIME]
Jenny: Oh! Hey, everybody and Happy Hanukkah—
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: To all who celebrate.
Kristin: Yes, Happy Hanukkah. In this season of Hanukkah, we thought it would be a fun time to also tell you that one of the thematic episodes that we’re gonna be doing this season is taking a deeper look at Willow and Judaism. Specifically, there is so much to discuss, so many of you have written in over the last few years. And some of the things, we’re totally aware of, but a lot of what we’re gonna be talking about or what other people are going to be talking about, we’re gonna be learning along the way. So we have a little form set up for those of you who want to share with us. It’s a place for our Jewish listenership specifically to submit thoughts, requests for guests, questions, feedback, and all else as we move into production on that episode. Bufferingthevampireslayer.com/willow. It’ll take you to the little form, put whatever you want in there. We won’t be producing this episode until 2022, but we just wanna start gathering your thoughts and your interests now so that we can do a good job.
Jenny: Yes, please. And speaking of a good job, it’s time…
Kristin: [simultaneously] Oh my god.
Jenny: To reveal unto thee…the results of last episode’s Sexual Tension Awards. We received a total of 658 votes, which is so close to 669 votes, [Kristin laughs] it pains me. To be so close and yet so far. In fourth place, with 1% of the vote—meaning, like, six and a half people liked this enough to vote for it—it’s Xander and Nancy.
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: [makes fake vomit noise]
Kristin: Who are you six people?
Jenny: Yeah, who are y—you know what, I’m not gonna yuck your yum. Nancy seems…
Kristin: It’s true.
Jenny: Fun. In second place—
Kristin: [simultaneously] Just the competition was stiff, if you know what I mean.
Jenny: [laughing] I know exactly what you mean. In second [sic] place, with 19% of the vote, it’s Buffy and the act of saying "from beneath you, it devours." Which, you know. It does. In second place, Immolation Watch never sleeps. It’s Dawn and Spike’s imminent death by fire, with 35% of the vote.
Kristin: Burn it all down, Dawn.
Jenny: And what shall rise, pray tell, from the ashes after Dawn has burned it all down? With 45% of the vote, taking the big win, it’s Xander and Spike. You’re welcome.
Kristin: Good job, gentlemen.
Jenny: Enjoy.
Kristin: Hey, we’re doing something very fun in the Patreon space, in case you didn’t hear about it yet. It’s Feels Like the First Time, which is the podcast that I did with Joanna Robinson for oh so long, and I’m now doing it with Jenny Owen Youngs—
Jenny: Hello.
Kristin: And Jenny, what are you guiding me through?
Jenny: I’m showing you Firefly. Finally, an opportunity to make you watch it, where you could not say no.
Kristin: Yeah, it’s true. And lucky for me, ‘cause I actually did really enjoy the first episode. We watched—
Jenny: Ah-ha! I fucking knew it!
Kristin: [laughs] We watched the pilot with all of our patrons a couple weeks ago. We’re about to tape the second episode where I’ll be telling Jenny all of my thoughts and feelings on the first two episodes and predicting what might happen in the next three.
Jenny: Incredible.
Kristin: It’s really fun. You can learn more about it, bufferingthevampireslayer.com/feelslike. We are watching Shindig with everyone on Saturday, this Saturday, December 4th, at 1 o’clock Eastern.
Jenny: Hurray! We’ve also got a live watch of Amends!
Kristin: Aww.
Jenny: [laughing] The incredibly festive holiday episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer.
Kristin: Can’t wait to see all of the gifts that Faith brought over to Joyce’s house.
Jenny: So many gifts.
Kristin: Very "Spah-tan."
Jenny: [simultaneously] They are…crappy. [Kristin laughs] We’ll be watching that with our patrons on Saturday, December 11th at 5 PM Eastern. Details are on our Calendar and over on Patreon.
Kristin: Hell yes, cannot wait to revisit the great blizzard of Sunnydale. I have an email to share with you, finally. It’s been, like, a weird beginning where I’ve just said I will read you an email and haven’t. Before I jump into it, I just wanna share something from Mack. So as you know, everyone on the team here listens to the episodes before they go live. And Mack clarified—you’ll hear me referencing Ani DiFranco saying "It’s Mr. DiFranco to you" in the show. And Mack actually let me know that Ani was riffing off of Sidney Poitier’s famous quote, which is "It’s Mr. Tibbs to you." That’s from the movie In the Heat of the Night, where he plays a black cop who works cases in a racist county in the south during the 1980s. So I’m gonna be watching that film, and I just wanted to let you know. When you get to that part of the podcast, I stand corrected. Ani got it from Sidney Poitier.
Jenny: Well, well, well.
Kristin: Are you ready, Jenny, for a little email?
Jenny: I am so ready.
Kristin: This is from our listener, Ben. Ben wrote in, "In the first episode of Season 7, Lessons, you asked if anyone knew how many beheadings we’ve seen in the show. And you invited any listeners with the answer [Jenny laughs] to get in touch. [both laugh] I have the answer, along with many other related stats. And the reason I do is at least partially down to the two of you. I’m a UK-based comedian, writer and Buffy and Buffering fan. Back in Season 5, during your discussion of The Body, the following snippets of conversation really caught me. First, Jen Malkowski saying, ‘I think that’s really the mission statement for this episode, to explore what an individual death means, really in the context of a show that’s given us hundreds and hundreds of deaths, most of which mean nothing at all.’" And then us saying to each other, Jenny, "I mean, how many deaths have we seen on Buffy the Vampire Slayer? If we could count vampire dustings, right?" "Oh, forget it, countless, yeah. So, so many." Ben says, "Well, I heard that and I thought, I bet they’re not countless. I bet I could count them. So I did."
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: "I have a spreadsheet of every—"
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: "Single death depicted, reported, referenced or implied in the show. And what’s more, I’m planning to take a stand-up comedy show about my findings to the Edinburgh Festival Fringe next summer. The working title is Lies, Damned Lies, and Buffy the Vampire Slayer, a comedy show about death, Buffy, and statistical analysis. [Jenny laughs] To answer your original question, there are 40 decapitations in the show total, 46 if you count the Gentlemen’s heads exploding, making it the fourth or the fifth most common cause of death. Twenty-nine of these are beheadings of vampires. However, the beheading that sparked your question was only the tenth decapitation—"
Jenny: [gasps dramatically]
Kristin: "Spoiler, there are many more to come! In the first, we actually—[both laugh] and it’s the first decapitation we actually see since Buffy slammed a car door on a vamp’s head in All the Way."
Jenny: Ah-ha.
Kristin: "Other notable decapitations include, of course, the very first with a cymbal in the Bronze in episode 2, The Harvest. And of course, the beheading with a bone saw in The Body itself." [Jenny laughs] Wow, Ben.
Jenny: Eughh.
Kristin: Yes, Ben. I replied immediately and just screamed at Ben and now, here we are, reading the email. [laughs]
Jenny: Oh my god. Ben! Thank you. [laughs]
Kristin: Ohh, god. Forty-six? I don’t know, do you—would you count the Gentlemen? I wouldn’t count them.
Jenny: No, I think exploding is different than decapitation.
Kristin: Yeah. I agree, I agree. So 40 total. And Jenny, we’re about to roll over into a live episode right now.
Jenny: That’s right.
Kristin: So have fun. We have a lot of fun. You’ll be able to tell if you’re a regular listener that we are in the same room and also talking to people live. Because we are cackling a lot more than usual. [laughs]
Jenny: So much cackling.
Kristin: So enjoy, or don’t.
Jenny: Before we roll into this live episode, I just wanted to give you a little gifty.
Kristin: [laughing] Oh. A little gifty, for me?
Jenny: [laughing] Yeah. Yeah, a tasty little gifty for you.
Kristin: Oh, I can’t wait.
Jenny: So as you know, the song at the end of this episode is a nice little song, from Buffy to Willow. However, the song that was almost at the end of this episode [Kristin laughs] was an ode to the skin-eatingest dude we’ve ever encountered. [Kristin sighs] Gnarl. And I’d like to sing a little sample for you and the listeners, if I may.
Kristin: You definitely may.
Jenny: The song that wasn’t. [takes deep breath] [singing and snapping] Who’s that creepin’ in the shadows? Gnarl! Walk alone, he’s sure to follow. Gnarl! Who’s got a manicure a-clackin’? Gnarl! Always down for lengthy snackin’. Gnarl! G for the gnashing of his teeth, N for the nasty treats he eats, A for when finds you all alone! [Kristin laughs] R for the rattling of your bones. L for when he’s lapping up your blood, and I forgot to finish the song with a rhyme!
Kristin: Wow, Jenny. Standing ovation. Standing.
Jenny: Aw, thanks. Thanks a lot.
Kristin: I take the—I carried the mic up with me, but I am standing.
Jenny: Standing and running far, far away. [both laugh]
Kristin: Thank you for that. I’m sure many people will make a sound clip of it and use it as their ringtone. [Jenny laughs] Who doesn’t wanna think about Gnarl all the time?
Jenny: Mmm!
Kristin: Oh, you’re gonna get a lot more Gnarl after the theme song.
Jenny: Here we go.
NOTES: [Buffering theme plays]
Jenny: Hello! And welcome! To Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast where we are watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, one by one, spoiler free, in tandem with those—beeeeeeep! Over on Angel on Top. [Kristin laughs] I’m Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: And I’m Kristin Russo, and this week, we are live on the internet. But sitting—in case you’re listening to this after the fact and you can’t see us, Jenny and I are sitting right next to each other. Check this out.
Jenny: That’s the sound of me being poked. Kinda hard, actually.
Kristin: Yeah, I was trying to get you to say "ow."
Jenny: Yeah. [laughs]
Kristin: But—okay. So yeah. [Jenny laughs] So we’re sitting next to each other, and we’re in the same place, which is really appropriate because we are recording Season 7, Episode 3, Same Time, Same Place. Get it? Stay tuned at the end of this podcast every other week for an original song written by the one, the only, Jenny Owen Youngs, recapping the Buffy episode that we’re discussing.
Jenny: Same Time, Same Place could have only been written by Jane Espenson, was directed by James A. Contner and originally aired on October 8th, 2002.
Kristin: Important date. I mean—sorry, did you wanna talk about your birthday? I didn’t mean to interrupt.
Jenny: No, no, I’m good.
Kristin: Okay. ‘Cause I have some 2002 airport facts [laughing] to drop in a minute. Okay. This is the one where, according to IMDB, "Willow’s return proves problematic when she is literally unable to see her friends and is left with a creature that paralyzes its victims." That’s fucking mild, IMDB.
Jenny: And thank god.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: If you knew the truth, would you sign on? For this? [laughs]
Kristin: [laughs] No. No, I wouldn’t. I sent Jenny a picture while I was watching today that was just my—[both laugh] my notebook held up in front of the TV screen, and it was, like, Gnarl on the TV screen and my only note was "barf." [both laugh]
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Which kind of—like, that kind of sums it up.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Yeah.
Kristin: So here we are. Previously On.
Jenny: What happened previously on Buffy the Vampire Slayer?
Kristin: My notes are: Warren was flayed, a horse daddy, Anya and a soul.
Jenny: I didn’t even write it—I was like, I’m sick—
Kristin: [simultaneously] It’s like a partridge and a pear tree. [laughs]
Jenny: [laughing] I’m sick and tired of being dragged through these Previously Ons. Like, I don’t wanna see Warren getting flayed again.
Kristin: [laughs] But you get horse daddy!
Jenny: I know it’s relevant. And I’m happy to see horse daddy, always. [laughs]
Kristin: Yeah. Horse daddy Giles, you know? So. That’s the Previously On and here we go. We’re off. This episode is kind of reminiscent—[both burst out laughing] Everyone can now see how many times I interrupt Jenny, which they can’t see usually.
Jenny: Mmhmm!
Kristin: But this—what I was gonna say is this is kind of reminiscent of mummy hand.
Jenny: You know, the mummy hand’s actually in this episode.
Kristin: In the box?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Oh.
Jenny: I thought you’d be happy. I know it’s your favorite mummy hand.
Kristin: It is my favorite mummy hand. Say what you were gonna say before I—
Jenny: Sunnydale airport! [Kristin laughs] Nine twenty-something PM. Ahhh!
Kristin: Yeah, so the thing that I immediately noticed, which I don’t know if you did as well, but—
Jenny: The clockwork?
Kristin: No—
Jenny: [laughing] So much clockwork in this ep.
Kristin: The clockwork is great, especially the microwave clockwork.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: I think that’s pretty incredible. No, but like, Xander and Buffy and Dawn are waiting at the gate. And I was like, this is 2002.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: 9/11 was 2001—
Jenny: Mmhmm!
Kristin: So I clickety-clacked my way—
Jenny: Oh.
Kristin: To a little bit of research. And—so—first of all. First of all, Jenny.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Before the 1970s, a lot of flights—like, it was so casual in the United States, that a lot of flights, you could just walk into the airport, get on the plane and they would take the fare from you on the plane.
Jenny: Incredible.
Kristin: Can you even? Can you even? So, anyway. Then 9/11 happened and the federal government took over the monitoring of people and bags—[laughs] yeah.
Jenny: Classic federal government.
Kristin: Classic federal government. But the—it was called, like, the Aviation and Transportation Security Act. And it had to be enacted by November 19th, 2002. So they, like, squeak! They just squeaked this right in—
Jenny: [simultaneously] Wow!
Kristin: Because after this—and I don’t know—I mean, like, things—
Jenny: November 19th, 2002? [both laughing] That’s just three days before my 21st birthday.
Kristin: And, like, it went in stages. I don’t really remember, but the shoes and the liquids, that shit didn’t happen until 2006. So there was, like, a few years—
Jenny: I remember the liquids, because I—it was, like—I’m glad to hear that it was 2006. Because my memory is I was just, like—just starting to fly a lot ‘cause I was, like, going to LA all the time to start to play shows.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And I, like, went to the airport. I was, like, taking a red-eye. I got a coffee. And then I, like, went—
Kristin: Ugh!
Jenny: To go through security and they were like, "cool, you can’t—" and I was like, what do—what do you mean, I can’t? [both laugh] What does that—
Kristin: The beginning of the end, right there.
Jenny: The beginning of the end.
Kristin: I know. I mean, I remember going to the gate with people. Like, that—I have memories of that. But anyway. If this had happened—if Willow had returned just, like, a month later, they wouldn’t have been able to even be at the gate.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: Anyway. Shout out to the kid who drops his fucking backpack ‘cause he’s pissed off at his parents. [both laugh] I think it’s a fucking quality move. If you are a moody teen, take note.
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: Just fucking drop your bag as you walk.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Brilliant.
Jenny: Like, big Paul Rudd in Wet Hot American Summer vibes. [both laugh] I really like a lot that’s going on here. I like that Xander made a yellow crayon sign. I like that Xander is, like, really excited and, like—his whole vibe is—feels very open. You know? He’s not on the same page as Buffy, who’s like, "What are we—what do we say to Willow?" He’s just like, yeah. I also like that he [laughs] has clearly been going on and on and on and on about his yellow crayon speech. [laughs]
Kristin: "My mouth saved the world" is exactly what he says. Which is prob—maybe the most Xander line that has ever—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Been spoken.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: To your point, though, I have a bone to pick with Buffy. Because she says, "We saw her kill—" she’s talking about Willow. Like, "how are we gonna respond? Of course we can’t act normal. We saw her kill someone. She tried—"
Jenny: What show has she been watching? [laughs]
Kristin: "She tried to kill Dawn." I’m like, do you remember Normal Again? Because, like, it was just a few episodes ago that you literally tried to kill everybody. [laughs]
Jenny: Baby, baby, baby. [both laugh]
Kristin: So—
Jenny: [laughing] If you don’t remember trying to kill Dawn yourself, dot-dot-dot.
Kristin: It just feels, like—like, her shock—and I know, obviously, like, Sarah Michelle Gellar has to read the lines that she’s fucking given.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: But like, wh—how are we treating this like it’s any different than all the times that everyone on the show has tried to kill somebody? Anyway, Buffy reveals of course to Dawn that [Jenny laughs] she didn’t finish—
Jenny: I just—I feel like—I just feel like Michelle Trachtenberg is getting a lot to work with, and she’s really working it in this ep. And this is, like, the start of it, when she’s like, [laughs] "She didn’t finish being not evil?" [both laugh]
Kristin: I mean, I don’t know if you know this, but I am a Dawn fan.
Jenny: I know that you—I know, I know, I know, I know. Look, we’re—this a pro Dawn podcast.
Kristin: [laughs] Sorry, I’m laughing at somebody in the comments, who said "only—" Gavi? I don’t know if I pronounced your name right. [both laughing] "Only Buffy can try to kill her sister." Like, only she can make fun of her sister—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: So no one else can do that. Good point.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: So then we go, in my notes, to what I call Airport #2. Because this is the same scene—
Jenny: Sure. [slightly garbled] Parallel Airport. [both laugh]
Kristin: Do you wanna try that sentence—do it again.
Jenny: No, no.
Kristin: Just one more time? Okay.
Jenny: [laughing] No, I’m set.
Kristin: My first note is: Willow looks fucking great.
Jenny: This outfit! Where was this outfit—why didn’t Tara ever get to see Willow in this outfit? [laughs] You know what—
Kristin: Oh, that’s so sad. What the fuck? [laughs]
Jenny: I—well, I just—I mean—look, they had a very special time together. But imagine how much more special it would have been [both laugh] if Willow was wearing this outfit at some point.
Kristin: Well, I mean—
Jenny: Her hair. The ruffly—sort of, like, exaggerated ruffle tuxedo thing over—
Kristin: [simultaneously] Yeah, and like—
Jenny: [simultaneously] With the leather jacket and the pinstripe pants, come on!
Kristin: She looks hot. She looks great.
Jenny: She actually—yeah. She—yeah.
Kristin: And she looks, like, all grown up, you know? Which part of that is from trauma. But hey, that’s a part of growing up, for some of us.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: So what are you gonna do? And yeah, we get to see the kid drop the bag again. Love that a second time.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Yep. Okay, we’re like, hold—whoa, what?
Kristin: What, they’re not there? But they were there, oh my god!
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm, mmhmm, yeah. And Willow is sad and she’s like, "Welcome home, me."
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And then Nerf Herder’s like [sings Buffy theme].
Kristin: [laughs] They are. Then we go—so I realized where this was later in the show. But in my first note taking, I called this Spray Paint Alley. So. [laughs]
Jenny: Dude! Look closely and try—you cannot prove to me that this guy isn’t tagging "Spice Girls."
Kristin: No, except for later. That’s what I was writing down—later, you see that it says "spider." And I was so disappointed, because—
Jenny: Oh.
Kristin: I have, like, a whole situation with, like, S-P-I-what, friend?
Jenny: [disappointed] Spider? [sighs]
Kristin: Spider is, like, the most—I’ve never—like, I have no idea what, like, using spray paint and tagging things is, so I’m gonna guess that if somebody’s doing it, they’re writing "spider."
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: Guess—Jenny, there’s a certain thing that—[both laugh] I don’t know if you’ll be able to hear that at home, but the clap?
Jenny: [simultaneously] The choice—the choice—the choice—[both laugh]
Kristin: It’s really good.
Jenny: The choice?
Kristin: It’s so good. [both laughing]
Jenny: The choice for them to show Spray Paint Boy. And then to have the hand come in from the side and go—[rolls tongue]
Kristin: And the fingers are so long and the nails, oh my gosh. This is the best customer at the fucking nail salon—demon nail salon. It’s Gnarl.
Jenny: It’s—[laughs]
Kristin: Gnarl is like, you know that I am my nails, right? That’s my whole thing. That’s my whole—
Jenny: [rolls tongue] [both laugh] It’s so…
Kristin: Ugh!
Jenny: Funny.
Kristin: It’s incredible. I mean, Gnarl—this is the—
Jenny: [makes clacking noise] [both laugh]
Kristin: This is the introduction of Gnarl. All—what, do you wanna—do you wanna say what Gnarl says? Are you ready [Jenny clears throat] for beginning your role as Gnarl in this podcast? [laughs]
Jenny: Gnarl says, [dramatically] "All alone!" [laughs] It’s not very good. There’s something—
Kristin: [dramatically] "The wind talks, when you’re all alone!"
Jenny: [dramatically] "Alone!" [laughter] Yeah. There’s something about Camden Toy’s performance—
Kristin: This is Camden Toy, if you didn’t know that. So he’s the second—
Jenny: [simultaneously] Of course it is.
Kristin: Second Gentleman.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: I mean, but some people are—
Jenny: [simultaneously] Second Gentleman, first Gnarl. But, like—
Kristin: Not a lot of people learn from us, but a couple people do. [both laugh]
Jenny: His line deliveries really do something so interesting, I think, over the course of the episode. Which I think is why my brain is like, no, there’s no—there’s no easily accessible imitation of this. Because it, like, just kind of goes all over the place, but it always feels like, of a piece? But it is, like, very long and winding. How am I doing?
Kristin: Yeah, you’re doing great.
Jenny: Thank you.
Kristin: Somebody in the chat said exactly what I was just about to say—Megan—[Jenny laughs] that Gnarl is very Gollum-y. Like, and it is. I mean, his whole affect—
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: Is very, like—
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: "My precious."
Jenny: Mmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: So then we go to parallel Summers house scenes, where Willow gets there first. She knocks on the door. No one’s home.
Jenny: Yo. Dig the "Buffy" license plate on Buffy’s bedroom door.
Kristin: "Buffy. California." [both laugh] She gets in, obviously. She goes through the side door, and this is where we get the beautiful—I love—whoever was behind the camera and did the little pan past the micro—they were having a good time. That’s a beautiful pan past the microwave time. You know?
Jenny: Mmm. Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: It’s nice. We learn—I don’t know if we already knew this, but it’s very clear now that Buffy took Joyce’s room, which then was Willow and Tara’s room, and now is Buffy’s room. But has, like, moved shit around, so the bed is on the opposite wall and the dresser’s on the wall where the bed used to be.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Mmhmm, mmhmm, mmhmm. Which honestly?
Kristin: You think it’s a better layout?
Jenny: Well, no. [both laugh] I haven’t given much thought to the layout, but I do think it is—it’s not weird [laughs] that she took over the room.
Kristin: No, it’s not weird. And also, I think—I mean. Most people would probably want to get the fuck out of this house after the amount of horrible shit that’s happened.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: But the show set us up to know that it’s—the house is at a depreciated value—
Jenny: Right. Right, right, right.
Kristin: They can’t leave, they have to stay there. And so the next best thing is, like, move the furniture around so it at least feels a little different than it felt before. Don’t use the doily bedspread. And she didn’t.
Jenny: Willow takes a moment by the window to be sad. [Kristin groans] And we’re like, thanks. [groans]
Kristin: At least they don’t play the fucking scene. At least it’s only the audio.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Yeah, it’s just audio. Okay, and then—now for those of you who are a little younger than us. Kristin, do you recall a time in your life when you had a Filofax? And you had one page in the Filofax [Kristin laughs] that was family phone numbers that you just kept open on your desk? [both laugh] And you just want to have your own—
Kristin: [simultaneously] You had me until… [laughs]
Jenny: You wanna have your own work number. [both laughing] You wanna have your best friend Xander’s work number, but not his home number.
Kristin: Uh-huh.
Jenny: Or cell or anything.
Kristin: And then Dawn’s new—
Jenny: And then Dawn’s cell phone.
Kristin: Cell phone number.
Jenny: And nary a mention of Willow. That’s your family for Willow to roll up on and read.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And feel—
Kristin: But is this manifested by Wi—like, is that really the book—is that really what the book says?
Jenny: Oooh!
Kristin: Because she also looks at the pictures and there’s no pictures of Willow. And so I thought that, like, maybe—since obviously, we learn—
Jenny: Right. She’s like—
Kristin: At the end, that she’s kind of erased herself without meaning to?
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: It’s not a big deal. I am what they call…a natural talent, so.
Jenny: Okay, so—
Kristin: [simultaneously] She gets—wait. I don’t know if you’re about to go to the next—the Buffy scene? But I would like to be upset with Willow for putting her fucking shoes on the couch first. [Jenny laughs] Are you kidding me? Come on.
Jenny: People in TV shows put their shoes on the couch all the time.
Kristin: It drives me fucking nuts.
Jenny: She—yeah. She hears something downstairs and thinks that someone’s arrived home, drops the Filofax, goes downstairs. Doesn’t see anybody, falls asleep on the couch, with her shoes on. Okay.
Kristin: [laughs] I got distracted by everybody agreeing with me in the chat. It’s like—I’m like, don’t look at the chat until I see everybody being like, "Yeah, Kristin. You’re totally right, Kristin." And then I’m like, what? Where am I? [both laugh]
Jenny: Jesus.
Kristin: Okay.
Jenny: So—
Kristin: Back to the microwave. [Jenny laughs] So they’re having this conversation, Buffy and Xander walk through the door. Is Dawn with them at this point? Basically, they’re like, Giles—first of all. Giles said he put her on the plane.
Jenny: Lies.
Kristin: [laughing] Lies! Giles is straight-up fucking lying over there in fucking—
Jenny: Unless—
Kristin: Wherever he is in the UK.
Jenny: Unless he walked her to the cab and then got in it with her, and then rode to the airport.
Kristin: But why wouldn’t he have just driven her to the airport?
Jenny: Maybe his car is in the shop. [Kristin laughs] Maybe he only rides horses in England.
Kristin: Oh my god. He’s like, it’d be really impractical to ride the horse to the airport, so. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah, ‘cause where would you put the luggage, on the horse?
Kristin: Anyway. Giles says he put Willow on the plane. But I guess she had one of those flights that left London and stopped in Chicago before it went the rest of the way to Sunnydale Airport. That’s…super logical. [laughs]
Jenny: [simultaneously] Yeah. They had a layover in Chicago.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Chicago. [laughs] And so they’re like, where the fuck is Willow? Right? Like, did she double back? Did she go back to England? Did she get off in Chicago, is she destroying—did she go immediately to the other Hellmouth in Cleveland? Like, what is she doing? I would like to take a moment to ask, what is Buffy wearing? And I say this as somebody who was this age in 2002, so like, I have a lot of space and room for, you know, the fashion of the time.
Jenny: What is Buffy wearing?
Kristin: She’s wearing, like, a white tulle dress-slip that’s totally see-through. And she has, like, a—maybe, like, a white sports bra kind of thing. And then jeans. But the dress—it goes, like, below her knees. It’s quite a choice.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: I’m not, like, totally upset by it, but it’s just—it should be noted. [both laugh] Okay. To whoever in the chat is saying that O’Hare is the worst airport, I would like to say for the record that O’Hare has toilets that cover themselves in new plastic before you sit down on them, which is probably horrible for the environment, but really great for my butt. And I love it, so thank you.
Jenny: [laughs] "Great for my butt." Kristin Russo. [both laugh] Moving on.
Kristin: Moving on, let’s move on, yes. Well, should we talk—we should talk about Dawn being pretty astute, right?
Jenny: Just moving away from what’s good for your butt.
Kristin: [simultaneously] From my butt. [both laugh] Yeah, yeah, yeah. I agree. [laughs] So do you wanna talk about Dawn or would you like me to talk about Dawn?
Jenny: Go for it. Hit it.
Kristin: So they’re sitting on the couch, and Dawn is like, "So Giles is blaming Giles and we’re blaming us. Is anyone gonna blame Willow?" She follows this up with, "Will around here start asking for help when they need it?" I am…absolutely a Dawn fan. I can’t be stopped. I just feel like she’s really speaking a lot of wisdom for a fucking—how old is she? Fifteen? Sixteen?
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm, mmhmm. She’s doing great.
Kristin: Would you like to talk about anything? [both laugh]
Jenny: Uh, well, I like that—you know, Xander—[laughs] in making a case—trying to, you know, think of alternatives for what could be going on here.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: He mentions that he avoided Giles lots of times. Because he was lazy, and then they go on, like, a little—like, it’d be very easy to take care of Lazy Willow instead of Dark Willow. [both laugh]
Kristin: Yeah. I would love to see what, like, Lazy Willow’s manifestation looks like. [Jenny laughs] I think just cozy, sweatpants, tousled hair.
Jenny: Yeah, but until it goes too far and then you’re letting the candles burn all the way down, and then you set your house on fire.
Kristin: So we crossfade—a beautiful crossfade where the three of them go see-through, and then we see Willow. So they’re sitting on Willow, essentially, on the couch. And Willow gets up and she—so…this is a straight-up—
Jenny: [simultaneously] Okay. Willow…[Kristin laughs] Willow calls Giles in England by pressing…[both laughing] one button.
Kristin: She’s a witch, so.
Jenny: Mmm, is that how it works?
Kristin: Calling card for witches is you just assign one number.
Jenny: Boop!
Kristin: Yeah. But she says—she’s looking for Giles and then she’s like, "Oh, you don’t know him by that name." [laughs]
Jenny: "I mean, Mr. Giles." [both laughing]
Kristin: [simultaneously] "Mr. Giles." That’s Mr. Giles to you. Yes, that was an Ani DiFranco "In My Head" [sic] reference. And then she says, "Oh, right. The Council meeting. I forgot he would be there and he’s unreachable all day." Convenient that he’s unreachable, but also, they just talked to him, so that’s confusing. And also, the Council? What council?
Jenny: Well, Buffy called him the night before.
Kristin: Okay.
Jenny: Which would have been very late in England. ‘Cause it was what, like, 10 PM or something. So that would have been, like, oh, like eight hours later in England?
Kristin: So, like, the morning before he left?
Jenny: Yeah, exactly.
Kristin: My real question is, what coun—what council? The Council-council? Or is there—are we calling the witches’ coven the council now? Because why is Giles with the fucking Council?
Jenny: Well, he is be—he was retroactively back-paid and reinstated.
Kristin: So he’s, like, going to meet—I just, like…I don’t think we’ll ever get, like, an answer to this. But I just felt like it was a bizarre thing to just toss in there.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: That he’s with the coun—he could have been with the witches. Why wasn’t he with the witches? Anyway. Out of the Magic Box walks Anya.
Jenny: God. Bless. The universe!
Kristin: She’s holding a magic box.
Jenny: I’m happy to see Anya with a magic box! [laughs]
Kristin: [simultaneously] From the Magic Box. She’s holding a magic box from the Magic Box. That will get me any time, every time.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: I just love the props person who took—like, stamped "magic box"—
Jenny: Mmhmm. Mmhmm.
Kristin: On every fucking side of this box ‘cause, like, get it?
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: ‘Cause that would be me. So the Magic Box is obviously destroyed.
Jenny: RIP.
Kristin: RIP, Magic Box.
Jenny: Anya’s not happy to see Willow right away.
Kristin: Uh, no.
Jenny: Because, you know, the last time she saw Willow, Willow was utterly decimating her livelihood and doing—getting inside of her brain and making her do stuff. A terrible vibe.
Kristin: Yeah, and we get—I mean, we always get, like, very, very direct honesty from Anya. And that’s what we get here, you know? She’s like—and what I love—what I love about this couple, who should be a fucking couple. Why?
Jenny: The greatest couple—
Kristin: I mean, they are—
Jenny: In the entire run of the show.
Kristin: [makes kissing noise] You know? A direct chef’s kiss for this couple. ‘Cause they’re both being so honest. They’re both really fucking honest right now. Anya says, you know, "Are you all better or are you fiery apocalypse Willow?" And Willow honestly says, "Neither."
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: I’m doing work on myself. I’m trying, whatever. Anya’s like, "You ruined my fucking livelihood, and you are responsible so you should feel responsible." And Willow is like, "You are correct, and I am open to taking this—" there’s some rib bone talk. And Willow is like, bring it. Which kind of deflates Anya. But still. It’s honesty, it’s nice.
Jenny: It is nice and it’s great that—I mean, I think, like, Spike and Anya are frequently used in the show in this way. And Tara was to a certain extent as well. As, like, kind of a person who is in the group but not, you know, really in the core—
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: That people in the core can have conversations with that they can’t have with other people in the core.
Kristin: Mmhmm. Yeah.
Jenny: You know?
Kristin: Yeah. And also, it’s like, it works because Anya isn’t really seeing the other gang and so, it—like—
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: In this particular setup, it’s nice that we have a character that won’t really get it. That, like, you know, they’re invisible to each other.
Jenny: But then once Willow is like, "Ugh, just like, say whatever you need to." Anya warms and then she, like—[laughs] kind of hoppily sits down on the curb, and it’s very cute.
Kristin: It’s—this is—Alyson Hannigan and Emma Caulfield.
Jenny: You love to see it.
Kristin: Oh, god, they’re so good.
Jenny: Anya was just in Brazil for some vengeance.
Kristin: For some vengeance and nuts.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Nuts. [Kristin laughs] And [laughs] when Willow tells her that she hasn’t seen Buffy and Xander and Dawn, [laughing] Anya says, like, "‘Cause they’re still mad at you." Anya!
Kristin: She’s like—but she’s, like, saying it because she wants to justify it for herself.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: She’s like, "They’re probably still mad at you. Just between you and me, they’ve been really temperamental lately." And she tries to tell Willow about what happened, and Willow’s like, "Anyway, so can we get back to me? The me of it all."
Jenny: Yep, yep.
Kristin: And then Anya tells her, "Well, everybody’s been just, like, fucking around at the high school lately. Right? Buffy works there now. And Spike is insane in the basement. And Xander likes to get in early," which made my heart break. Because it was such—it’s such a specific detail, you know? It’s like—she’s, like, generally aware of this and generally aware of that, and she knows kinda every detail about what Xander is doing.
Jenny: [sighing] Yeah.
Kristin: Which is just—like, my heart, you know?
Jenny: Yeah, I know.
Kristin: So then we go to Spray Paint Alley which, turns out, was the construction site for the gym?
Jenny: Yes, the new gym—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: That Xander’s crew is hard at work on. And Willow just [laughs] calls down into the chasm, "Xander?" [Kristin laughs] And then she go—climbs down the ladder and we see that she is wearing—what is it called when heels are teenie-tiny?
Kristin: Kitten.
Jenny: And they’re short? Okay, kitteny. She’s wearing kitten heels—
Kristin: I don’t actually know what her heels are, but tiny heels are usually called kitten heels.
Jenny: Well, she appears to be wearing—by your description…what would be called kitten heels.
Kristin: Okay.
Jenny: And I just—just doesn’t seem very practical for climbing down a ladder into a construction site.
Kristin: She didn’t know she was gonna be climbing down a ladder.
Jenny: [simultaneously] No, I know. I know. I know, I know, I know, I know.
Kristin: Buffy and—are you getting allergic to the cats?
Jenny: I’m fine, I’m fine.
Kristin: [laughs] Buffy and Xander are now down in the pit as well and everybody sees this skin—as though—
Jenny: Do you think this is the same thing that they used for the Warren scene?
Kristin: Honestly, probably.
Jenny: It looks…identical.
Kristin: It has to be. And you know what I say—
Jenny: Yeah, why would you have two of those? [laughs]
Kristin: Like I always say. I think that one skinless person is plenty for a series. You know?
Jenny: You always say that.
Kristin: I do. I’m always saying it and no one is ever listening to me. We have another skinless person—[Jenny laughs] Spider? Maybe is his name?
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: And they’re hearing—I love the back and forth of hearing, like—they hear the book drop and they hear the door open and they hear the, like, ladder move as Willow goes up it.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: I just think it’s a nice effect.
Jenny: Well done.
Kristin: And of course, Buffy very specifically is thinking, well, this looks familiar.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Not good.
Jenny: [laughing] Xander says, "I came across this and I called you right away." And Buffy says, "I gotta get a job where I don’t get called right away for this stuff."
NOTES: [both laugh]
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Which is true. Okay, so, inside Sunnydale High School, another adult woman is wandering the halls! [both laugh]
Kristin: There’s nobody here though, so it’s like, at least nighttime. But yes, she just busts into this—
Jenny: Nighttime? It’s daytime!
Kristin: It is?
Jenny: She was just outside and it was daytime.
Kristin: That’s true, but where are the students? There are not—
Jenny: In class, they’re in class.
Kristin: Oh. [laughs]
Jenny: She’s just wandering around the school while class is happening. And then she comes across—[gasps] she comes across a door that is clearly marked "basement, no student access." [both laugh]
Kristin: And she’s like, "perfect."
Jenny: Down she goes.
Kristin: Spike apparently took his body off of the cross in the church and put the blue shirt back on before he went—
Jenny: [laughing] Horrific.
Kristin: It’s bad, it’s bad.
Jenny: I want you to know that in the chat, LaToya is saying, "Over on Angel On Top, [both laughing] we never talk about skinless people." Damnit, LaToya!
Kristin: Yeah, well, you had, like, two seasons of Justine at Angel On Top, so talk to me later. [both laugh]
Jenny: Okay, okay, okay.
Kristin: So Spike is still in his blue shirt, and he is having a conversation. He hears Willow and he’s like, "This is my place, you need permission. Worse than ever, you are." And then he’s like, oh, this is Willow. This is really fucking cool. I, like, thought about being in the writers’ room for this shit, where they’re like, okay, so he’s talking to Willow and he’s also talking to Buffy and Xander. But, like, timing it—there’s a lot of—you know what it is? Hellmath. [Jenny gasps]
NOTES: [HELLMATH jingle plays] Hellmath!
Kristin: Everyone’s welcome. It is hellmath though, how they figured this scene out, and it’s really cool.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Do you wanna know my favorite part of the scene?
Jenny: What’s your favorite part of the scene?
Kristin: When Buffy walks in—we don’t know when we first see it that Buffy has walked in. But when Buffy walks in, he says—Spike—"Look at you. Glowing. What’s a word, means glowing, gotta rhyme." Do you have any idea? What kind of word would mean glowing, Jenny?
Jenny: Oh, are you talking about, um, effulgent?
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, okay. [Kristin laughs] Well, he doesn’t say what it’s gotta rhyme with.
Kristin: No, but it’s, like, direct—clearly a—
Jenny: [simultaneously] It’s clearly—of course, it’s a callback. Of course, of course.
Kristin: [simultaneously] It’s just nice. It’s like, we had so much fun with "effulgent" years ago, and so the fact that—
Jenny: We did.
Kristin: The fact that Spike is stirring it up for us again, I’m into it. But yeah, you know, he’s talking to Buffy and Xander. He’s talking to Willow. He’s going back and forth. To Buffy and Xander—really, to Buffy—he’s saying, "I should hide. You know what I did." Then he’s like, "Everyone’s talking to me and not each other." Willow tells him that there’s a body. She’s like, "Do you know what could skin a person?" and he’s like—
Jenny: [simultaneously] And he’s like, mmmm. [Kristin laughs] I can think of one thing. [laughs]
Kristin: I might still be wearing this blue shirt and in a basement, but I do know—
Jenny: [simultaneously] I’m aware of a couple things.
Kristin: That you did that, so.
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: He says, "Button, button, who’s got the button?"
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: Which is not only a line from Willy Wonka, apparently, but is a reference to, like, a game played—
Jenny: Oh yeah.
Kristin: Where you hide a button. Get it? That’s pretty—
Jenny: [simultaneously] Yeah. Yeah, and then you’re like, where’s the button?
Kristin: Exactly.
Jenny: Who’s got it?
Kristin: Yep. [both laugh]
Jenny: Cool. Okay, so they have their little chat. And then, Xander and Buffy are walking around, and Xander notes it’s like the walls in the basement move or something. They can’t use the blueprints, even when you hold them up against the window—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: To look at the light filtering through them, the blueprints are of no use in the basement. Which I’m…interested in.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Put a pin…in that.
Kristin: That’s very—what’s that book that we’ve talked about before? The House of—
Jenny: House of Leaves.
Kristin: [laughing] Not the House of Yes.
Jenny: House of…Leaves.
Kristin: Listen. Parker Posey forever, but wrong reference. Yeah, The House of Leaves, which is a house bigger on the inside than it is on the outside. I love that shit. Actually, I’m reading The Once and Future Witches, because—
Jenny: Oh.
Kristin: I better finish it, because tomorrow we have a book club for Buffering talking about it—
Jenny: Bing-bang.
Kristin: And there’s some rooms where there are not rooms on the outside in that book—
Jenny: Ooh!
Kristin: As well. So yeah.
Jenny: So. Something great happens—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Before we leave the basement.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Which is that in his triangulated conversation, Spike tells Willow, "They think you did it. [Kristin laughs] The Slayer and her boy." [laughs] And Xander is so mad!
Kristin: He is. "I’m her boy?" He’s like, I thought I was your boy. [laughs]
Jenny: Exactly! [both laugh] What about all our meaningful eye contact?
Kristin: Oh, god. So okay. It’s fucking time! It’s time. The time is here.
Jenny: Buckle…buckle up! [Kristin laughs] This is a very important scene! It’s one of the most important scenes in the series.
Kristin: You can’t—oh, you can see her hand. Her whole—Jenny’s whole hand is, like, clasped white-knuckled around the microphone. [laughs]
Jenny: Look, here’s the thing. You remember Triangle? You remember the episode Triangle? [deep voice] "The troll!" and it was so fun. And what was really great about that episode was getting to see Willow and Anya playing against each other, being kind of, like, antagonistic. And Alyson Hannigan and Emma Caulfield, so funny, so great. So great, so great, so great, so great. Who wrote Triangle?
Kristin: [gasps] Well. Looks like you need to do some research.
Jenny: Okay, don’t—don’t go ahead without me.
Kristin: Don’t talk? Okay, I’ll just sit here and stare at them.
Jenny: No, no, no, just like, vamp.
Kristin: Well. I mean, I can at least talk about the beginning of this scene while you do your research, which is tap-tap-tap at the fucking door. And the door opens. It’s Anya’s apartment, and Anya—[laughs] Willow is like, "I need help."
Jenny: [gasps loudly] Triangle was also written by Jane Espenson, of course it was! Jane knows just what to do with Alyson and Emma. I love it so much! It’s so good.
Kristin: Great. Jane Espenson, the biggest Willow/Anya—see, she probably was trying to get everybody to agree, for these two to be a couple. Right? If we ever talk to her, we’ll find out.
Jenny: I mean.
Kristin: So Willow’s like, "I need help." And Anya immediately is like, "I don’t have any money." [both laugh] Classic! Actually…
NOTES: [ANYA jingle plays] [cash register rings] She spent one millennium, demonically vengeancin' Speaks her mind and then some, you know She's partial to the finer things And down with double boyfriends, oh yeah Exchanging cash for goods and also services She'd love to hold the money for ya (she'll hold that cash) Just keep the bunnies far from… Anya!
Kristin: Beautiful. Whoever sang that did a great job.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: Yeah. Anya—I mean, Anya’s perfect in this episode, if you ask me.
Jenny: [sighs] So good, so good.
Kristin: "Come in, enjoy my personal space," [both laugh] she says.
Jenny: Dude, every—I wrote—it was hard not to write down every single line of this scene, ‘cause it’s so great.
Kristin: I basically also wrote down every single line. Do you wanna try to do what they do—[Jenny clears throat] together?
Jenny: Uh, yeah.
Kristin: We’ll count in. Three, two—
Jenny: Oh, wait, wait, wait. Why don’t you be Willow and I’ll be Anya?
Kristin: But they both say the same thing. [laughs]
Jenny: Oh. Yes, they do, but before that. [laughing] Before that—
Kristin: [simultaneously] Oh, I don’t have that written down.
Jenny: Willow says that they found a body near the high school and Anya says, "Yes, that can happen." [both laugh]
Kristin: Sorry I—sorry I didn’t prepare for this. But then they say—
Jenny: [simultaneously] And then, when it’s revealed that the skin was taken right off, they say…
Both: "Was it you? No!" [both laugh]
Kristin: It’s so good! It’s—
Jenny: And then Anya’s like, "With the skin thing, they’re definitely gonna think it was you." [both laugh]
Kristin: They have, like, more conversation. And then Willow is like, "When did you get all insightful?"
Jenny: And Anya says, "I’m surprisingly sensitive." [Kristin squeals] Not surprising… to this guy!
Kristin: Oh, god.
Jenny: I know Anya is sensitive.
Kristin: "Will you help me?" says Willow. [laughing] "Well, is it difficult or time consuming?" says Anya.
Jenny: It’s good.
Kristin: It’s just good.
Jenny: It’s very good.
Kristin: So then I go—I revert now to all caps. I’ve lost it, because the candles have been lit.
Jenny: They are lit!
Kristin: I would call this an erotic novella, you know? "This isn’t gonna get sexy, is it?" What does Willow say, what does Willow say? She doesn’t say no. She doesn’t say no. She says, "I’d be shocked." [Jenny laughs] That’s not a no! It’s not a no.
Jenny: [simultaneously] That’s not a no.
Kristin: Then they, like, flirt. Willow’s like, "Where’s the dust?" and Anya’s like, "I ate it. LOL!" [both laugh]
Jenny: Yeah, when I’m flirting with girls, I’m always like, [Kristin laughs] "Oh, that dust? I ate it." [both laugh]
Kristin: Oh, god. Then the little lights light up, ‘cause they’re doing a spell to, like, find all—what?—the demons? What are they even doing? I’m not paying attention—
Jenny: Okay—
Kristin: To what they’re doing, because I’m just like, oh my god, kiss, kiss, kiss, kiss. [laughs]
Jenny: [simultaneously] It’s a spell and the powder—she did this spell—or she tried to do this spell with Tara, remember? And Tara thought she was part demon so she didn’t throw her dust.
Kristin: So it’s just a demon locator sp—
Jenny: She was like, "I ate it." [both laugh]
Kristin: Just like—the only way to make out with Willow is to pretend you ate the dust. [both laughing] The magic dust.
Jenny: So. So the glowing lights are demons in Sunnydale. And Anya says hello to her own glowing light. And then we see a wild…you know…what is the word I’m looking for? There’s a whole bunch of them! [both laugh] Under the high school.
Kristin: Cluster? A cluster?
Jenny: Yeah, a cluster.
Kristin: Um, yeah—
Jenny: A convergence.
Kristin: [laughs] Oh my god. Yeah, and then—
Jenny: Then—[laughs]
Kristin: And Anya has said, like, "My carpet’s gonna be chill, right? Like, this won’t fuck up my carpet, right?"
Jenny: And Willow’s like, "Baby girl, I got you. [both laughing] Do not worry about your carpet. Your carpet is gonna be fine." [both laugh]
Kristin: And then, the map sets a fire. And Willow’s face—like, Alyson Hannigan’s face, as Willow, when she sees that she’s promised that the carpet will be fine, but now the carpet is on fire, is genius. Emmy. An Emmy for that face alone. [Jenny laughs] It’s so good. She’s like, "smoke!" She stamps on it.
Jenny: She’s like, "Remember our talk about the carpet?!" [Kristin laughs] So…okay, but you know, once the carpet drama is sorted out. They pick up the map and [Kristin laughs] they see what looks like a strong, burnt char [Kristin laughs] in the middle of a wooded area, where Willow asserts that there are some good caves.
NOTES: [laughs]
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: [laughing] She knows a thing or two about caves.
Kristin: She does. Apparently, she knows a lot about caves.
Jenny: Did you happen to notice, on the map, what the name of that area was?
Kristin: No.
Jenny: It’s called Wilkins Grove.
Kristin: Like Mayor Wilkins?
Jenny: That’s right. Like…mayor for the last hundred years. Mayor Wilkins.
Kristin: [simultaneously] I mean, he was the mayor for fucking forever, so—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: He deserves at least a couple of caves and a grove.
Jenny: Sure, sure, sure.
Kristin: He probably—he would have fucking hated Gnarl. Mayor Wilkins would have fucking hated Gnarl.
Jenny: [imitating the Mayor] Unsanitary and rude!
Kristin: Oh, he would have been so upset about it while he drank his milk.
Jenny: And then [clicking noises]. [Kristin laughs] Um…so…
Kristin: So…Willow is like, "Could you just—could you—could you just teleport? Like, you’re a vengeance demon. Quick, like a bun—" [both laugh] She stops.
Jenny: I mean, like a really fast thing that’s definitely in no way rabbit-like.
NOTES: [laughs]
Kristin: And then we learn that Anya’s teleportation—it’s interesting, given my entire dissertation about aviation fucking security at the beginning of this. Because it’s impacting Anya before it’s impacting the residents of Sunnydale. She has to give a flight plan in advance before she teleports, because she reversed the worm spell last week. [laughs]
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: So then she…[both sigh] listen. Sometimes when you’re, like, two queer ladies, you know, things are, like, gonna get sexy in a variety of ways. And one of them is you share your feelings.
Jenny: Anya’s like, "Vengeance isn’t as fulfilling as I remembered."
Kristin: "I got the impression," says Willow. [both laugh] "That you enjoyed inflicting." Oh! Okay.
Jenny: [laughs] "Causing pain sounds really cool, I know." [both laugh]
Kristin: Wow, ladies! Willow’s like, "I think I know what you’re going through." And she basically is like, "Are you afraid that you will lose that feeling and then you’ll like it and then the power will be in charge instead of you?" Anya says, "Wow. That was really overdramatically stated. [laughs] But yes, that’s it." And then she says, "I wish it were better for you!"
Jenny: They say it to each other.
Kristin: "I wish it were better for you too."
Jenny: And then, [laughing] as things are winding down. Or perhaps winding up. Anya says, "It did get a little sexy, didn’t it?" And the look!
Kristin: The look.
Jenny: On Willow’s!
Kristin: The fucking look!
Jenny: Face!
Kristin: Ugh, it’s so good! It’s so good.
Jenny: I’d watch it a hundred times. She’s like…she’s—in her mind, she is like, "Yes it did. Should I do this? No! I have to—"
Kristin: "I—I—I—" [laughs]
Jenny: "Clear my name!" [laughter] She’s definitely not like, "I can’t, that’s Xander’s ex."
Kristin: No!
Jenny: She’s like, something is removing skin from people and it might be me. I gotta go. [both laugh]
Kristin: Yeah. If that weren’t—and that’s why I’m saying, why do—
Jenny: And then Anya’s like, "Oh, wait! Don’t go! Isn’t there another spell we could do together? [Kristin laughs] With more candles and dust?" [laughs]
Kristin: [groans] Fucking Anya and Willow, forever. If you think that every fucking nomination in the Sexual Tension Awards isn’t gonna be—
Jenny: Yeah, I mean, come on.
Kristin: You just—you don’t even know who you’re dealing with.
Jenny: Come on.
Kristin: Alright. We leave these two—
Jenny: Wait!
Kristin: Oh.
Jenny: Willow, before she leaves—
Kristin: Oh, right.
Jenny: She says she did do a locator spell to try to find Buffy and Xander and Dawn and the spell said that they don’t exist.
Kristin: Yeah. Anya doesn’t care. She’s like, but remember when it was sexy?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: We go to the dining room. Dawn is, like, rattling off all this shit. She’s talking about viscera. Buffy’s like, [sighs] "She knows about viscera. It makes you proud."
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm!
Kristin: Buffy is very clearly like, "I can’t do this. Like, we’re just sitting here and looking this shit up because we’re trying to convince ourselves that Willow is not doing this. And it’s, like, not working for me. I need to, like, move."
Jenny: There’s a couple things.
Kristin: Mmhmm?
Jenny: Sorry, am I stepping on something—somewhere you were headed?
Kristin: No.
Jenny: Okay. There’s a couple things here that I wanna talk about, and one of them is that Dawn tells them that Gnarl! [Kristin laughs] Eats little strips of skin.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: And she calls Gnarl a parasite, but actually, parasites don’t kill their hosts.
Kristin: It’s true.
Jenny: That would be a parasitoid.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: How about that?
Kristin: How about that?
Jenny: How about that?
NOTES: [Ad Break]
Jenny: This is so strange and I wonder if this is anybody else’s experience. I watched this episode—my first watch. And they got to the part where Dawn’s talking about how, "Oh, you didn’t say, like, pools of blood. And the thing about Gnarl is that he laps up the blood. You could say it’s his natural beverage." And I’m just like—the bile is rising in my throat and I’m like, this is so disgusting, blegh! And then the second time I watched it, I was like, wait, this is a show about vampires. [Kristin laughs] Like, almost everyone on the show drinks blood.
Kristin: [laughs] Right, right. I’m sorry. I heard, like, half of what you said, because I—so in the chat—in the live chat, ‘cause this is a live episode—there’s a filter on what you can and cannot say, and you can’t say any bad words. And so, like, while you were doing that whole conversation that you just had, I saw that somebody wrote "cork-blork."
Jenny: Yeah, they’ve been cork-blorking in the chat for a little while. [both laugh]
Kristin: And I lost it. I was like fucking wheeze-giggling over here, trying not to take—talk over your—
Jenny: Yep. Yep.
Kristin: Monologue about blood.
Jenny: Yep, yep, yep.
Kristin: Anyway, Xander’s like, [laughing] "You’re terrifying" to Dawn.
Jenny: Which is fair.
Kristin: Which is fair, and I love it, because it’s like, Xander was definitely not at Dawn’s level of, you know, casual-ness about demons with long fingernails who eat your skin.
Jenny: Clickety-clack. Oh, that’s a great point, in the chat, and in my notes. Dawn’s using the website "Demons Demons Demons."
Kristin: [laughs] Oh!
Jenny: A website that Cordelia frequently uses [Kristin gasps] down in LA.
Kristin: Aww! That’s sweet.
Jenny: Demons Demons Demons!
Kristin: Do you think that, like, Willow found out the website from Cordelia and told Dawn? Or do you think that, like, Cordelia and Dawn have been in direct contact?
Jenny: I do not think they’ve ever communicated.
Kristin: They haven’t, right? So we go to the woods, and we go there because the detective team has decided that if there is no blood, there will be, like, minute traces of blood that they can follow in the woods to find out where Gnarl is.
Jenny: We’ll just use Spike as a little bloodhound.
Kristin: Yeah. And he does a good job. Xander starts this scene off in a way that I love by saying, "We should have put a leash on him." Really, Xander? Okay.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: Tell me more.
Jenny: [laughing] Wow!
Kristin: What else do you have to say about that? Dawn is having a blast. She is making puns. She says it’s—
Both: Smellementary!
Kristin: She wants to make a database where they gather all the information and skin samples from the demons. And she also wants to wear high heels while she does it. Buffy says, "That was so close to being empowered." [pause] You know that Britney Spears is free now.
Jenny: Speaking of, yeah.
Kristin: You know? It just feels related, while I find my Patriarchy jingle. [laughs]
Jenny: Mm, mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: Because I think that is empowered, and that Buffy doesn’t know it yet.
NOTES: [THE PATRIARCHY jingle plays] The patriarchy! [thunder clap, evil laughter]
Kristin: Because it’s 2002, you know? And in 2002, I also wasn’t so sure if high heels was empowering. You know?
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: We had more to wade through, more to discuss.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: [laughs] Dawn…Dawn retorts, "Everyone loves a slender ankle." [laughs]
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: So I support—I think we all support—Dawn being a detective in high heels. Yes.
Jenny: Yeah, go Dawn.
Kristin: Do what you need to do for yourself, Dawn.
Jenny: Oh yeah.
Kristin: Spike fucking terrifies the shit out of Xander at the end of this. He’s like, "End of the line," and then he looks directly in Xander’s eyes and he goes, "Keep your ticket." [both laughing]
Jenny: "You’re gonna need it."
Kristin: Nicholas Brendon also, incredible response, with no line. Just his eyes are like "oh, fuck." [Jenny laughs] Very scared.
Jenny: So, just as they appear to be rolling up on the edge of this cave—
Kristin: Chat is freaking out on Britney is free. Yes. We all—we can—yes. We’re with you.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: We love Britney. Fucking—it’s about time. Continue, Jenny, I’m sorry.
NOTES: [laughs]
Jenny: Willow sees a narrow hole.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: And decides to climb through it.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: And I simply hate it.
Kristin: Mmhmm. Yeah. It’s not good. [laughs]
Jenny: And then we hear the little pitter-patter of Gnarl running away and going,
NOTES: [imitating Gnarl] "All alone!" [both laugh]
Kristin: Okay, and then Buffy and Xander and Dawn crawl in and then what happens, Jenny? I just want you to do all of Gnarl’s lines.
Jenny: [clears throat] [imitating Gnarl] "Look at the little shorn lamb! See how it trembles!" And then I didn’t write down the next lines, but it was something like, "Is it the cold?" I knew it! "Is it the cold wind? Or is it that the flock is nowhere to be seen?" [Kristin laughs] Uh…
Kristin: Oh god! And then Gnarl is like, flick!
Jenny: Here’s the thing.
Kristin: Hm?
Jenny: This is—we see a lot of shots about this being a va—like, a large, open space. And there are some tunnels, like, set back.
Kristin: Yeah, yeah.
Jenny: But Gnarl, on two occasions, darts up to someone and paralyzes them, when… [Kristin laughs] there—the amount of space—
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: That he would have to travel from being, like, hidden to then being close enough to strike—it just doesn’t—it simply doesn’t add up.
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: Kristin.
Kristin: Yeah, I mean, later, when Buffy and Gnarl are fighting, it’s also, like—[laughs] Gnarl’s fight response to being attacked is for him to hold his hands as far away from her as possible, [both laughing] which is also…you know. Probably it wouldn’t have gone like that, but we suspend our disbelief. [Jenny laughs] So Gnarl flicks his fingernail, paralyzing Dawn. And they’re like, "We gotta get her the fuck outta here, so let’s seal him in." As though this demon can’t move a couple of fucking rocks.
Jenny: Right? Right? Right?
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Pretty thin, folk. [Kristin laughs] I do love everything about Dawn being paralyzed, though.
Kristin: Oh my god.
Jenny: I’m so glad it happened.
Kristin: It’s so good. Her fucking, like—what do you call those people that do the voices for the—
Jenny: Ventriloquism?
Kristin: Yeah. She’s, like, ventriloquist-talking.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: [laughing] It’s incredible. And like, nothing could be better than Anya being introduced to this situation later.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah.
Kristin: So—[laughs] Gnarl loves something. He says that he loves something before the scene in the cave completely is moved. Do you know what he loves?
Jenny: Oh. Right, ‘cause Willow does a little prayer spell thing, and Gnarl says,
NOTES: [imitating Gnarl] "Gnarl loves spells! He keeps them as pets! [Kristin laughing] They love him and they leave him alone!"
Kristin: This is it. This is the end of Buffering the Vampire Slayer. [Jenny laughs] Like, every—the last listener just hit unsubscribe. [both laugh] "Gnarl loves spells" is probably the most Gollum-y that Gnarl gets in everything that he says.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And then he’s like, "They wanted me to have you."
Jenny: [imitating Gnarl] "They left you for me! Ugh!"
NOTES: [sound of paper hitting]
Kristin: [laughs] I can do that—
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: ‘Cause I’m in the same room with her. Okay, we’re in the woods, [laughing] and Dawn is like, [without moving mouth] "Buffy, I’m really sorry." [both laugh] It’s so good! And—
Jenny: Oh no!
Kristin: My next note is—well, I have a few. But really, the main one is "barf." So. [Jenny laughs] This is where he paralyzes Willow.
Jenny: [laughing] He says…he’s…[both laugh]
Kristin: "This is why Jenny isn’t allowed on Angel On Top," said LaToya. [both laugh]
Jenny: What the fuck? [both laugh] Oh, yeah, catch me on every episode of Angel On Top for the remainder of the season. You can’t—you can’t keep me out, LaToya.
Kristin: [simultaneously] As Gnarl.
Jenny: [laughing] Yes!
Kristin: Special guest star, Jenny Owen Youngs, as Gnarl. [both laugh]
Jenny: Gnarl the Musical. [both laugh]
Kristin: Okay, say what you were gonna say.
Jenny: I was gonna say. He’s, like, doing his regular voice, talking about how she—
Kristin: Just—
Jenny: [laughing] He says the word "gifty." And then his—his, like, tone and timbre change and he’s like, [imitating Gnarl] "Are you a tasty little gifty?" [both laugh] Except he doesn’t cackle. [high-pitched, laughing] He sounds so mad when he says "tasty little gifty," it’s so funny. [both laugh]
Kristin: Gnarl’s Corner, somebody said. [both laugh] So. Oh, god. So, Willow is also paralyzed by Gnarl’s fingernail. [Jenny laughs] He can’t wait to unwrap this gifty. And—
Jenny: [laughing] It’s so gross—it’s so, like, TikTok.
Kristin: It’s horrible!
Jenny: [laughing] It’s like, GnarlTok.
Kristin: [laughs] So we go to the living room. Let’s leave the fucking nasty shit behind. My notes for, like, most of the rest of it are just—where’s the camera? Barf, barf, barf. [both laugh] They have Dawn there, and [laughing] Xander just, like, tosses her on the couch like a sack of potatoes. And she’s like—
Jenny: [simultaneously] Face down! [laughs]
Kristin: [simultaneously] "Face up! Face up! Face up." Buffy is like, "Oh, it’s permanent." Like, she says it super nonchalantly. And then she’s like, "Oh, wait, wait, wait, wait. Just until the creature dies." And Dawn’s just, like, squeaking. [laughs] And she—they keep talking about how, what if she vomits? And she keeps being like, [not moving mouth] "Stop saying vomit! [laughs] Stop saying vomit!"
Jenny: [sighs] Yeah. And they decide to call Anya to watch her. And then meanwhile, back at the cave, I’m writing "ew" so many times. At the end of my notes, I searched for the word "ew" in my notes. And I used the word "ew" 48 times. [both laugh] And most of them are right here.
Kristin: Yeah. I mean, my notes are just "barf, barf, barf." I don’t even know—
Jenny: He eats—
Kristin: No! Nobody wants to hear [Jenny laughing] any podcaster describe what Gnarl does. That is not necessary. [laughs]
Jenny: [makes lip-smacking sound] [both laugh] Okay.
Kristin: I mean, do what you will, but…
Jenny: No, no, no.
Kristin: He does disgusting shit. It’s disgusting.
Jenny: It’s so gross. It’s so gross.
Kristin: It has no place on television. Get it off. [both laugh]
Jenny: It does have no place on TV. [both laugh]
Kristin: We go to—
Jenny: He eats skin. He eats a strip of skin and he eats it like a—
Kristin: Stop it!
Jenny: Like a pelican or some—no, like a—
Kristin: No. How dare you insult pelicans like that?
Jenny: [simultaneously] Like a smaller bird. A bird with a small beak that, like, has to, like, tilt—
Kristin: Stop it. Stop it.
Jenny: Tilt its head back to get—
Kristin: Stop it.
Jenny: Something—[laughs] Kristin’s mad at me. Okay.
Kristin: So we go to the living room. And Anya—[laughing] the first line from Anya to—about Dawn, to Dawn. "I bet she’s dying." [laughs] Dawn, we find out—she’s like, "But what kind of, like, paralyzing poison is this? ‘Cause there are a lot of kinds." And we find out that Dawn is opposable. And they pose Dawn. They—she puts her legs up in the air and then she swivels her around so she’s sitting up. It’s like Weekend at fucking the Summers house, over here.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Weekend at Bernie’s.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: Buffy is, like, fully just chomping down on Anya’s Brazil nuts while this is all—nobody gives a shit.
Jenny: [laughs] Very casually, "Where’d you get the nuts?"
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah.
Jenny: You know how you’re always asking people, "Oh, where’d you get these nuts? That I’m eating?"
Kristin: While your sister is, like, completely paralyzed from a poison from a fucking long-fingernailed demon. [Jenny laughs] Anya’s like, "I’m feeling very benevolent today. First I’m helping Willow, then I’m helping you." And they’re like—
Jenny: And they’re like, record scratch! [Kristin laughs] Wha-wha-wha-what?!
Kristin: What did you say? And then Anya of course helpfully is like, "I should probably make Dawn salute, though, right?"
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Like, I should probably do this thing. ‘Cause they’re like, "Anya, if you helped Willow and you know where she’s at, like, take this fucking scythe." Right? They give her a scythe?
Jenny: I think they give her a little battle ax.
Kristin: A battle ax?
Jenny: Or a war ax.
Kristin: Oh, right, a scythe is, like, the thing like this?
Jenny: The reaper. The reaper brings the scythe.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Right, okay, it’s not a scythe. It’s—you’re right, it’s a battle ax. And they’re like, "Time to go." And she’s like, "Great. And before we do that, though," and she just, like, [laughs] leaves Dawn’s finger pointing up. But it has just enough room for them to put the little remote control in it.
Jenny: But she also can’t press…
Kristin: She can’t press the buttons.
Jenny: [simultaneously] The button.
Kristin: So she’s just sitting there. But…
Jenny: I like that Anya is like, "Oh, not the Gnarl. Just Gnarl." [both laugh]
Kristin: Right, right.
Jenny: I know him from work.
Kristin: [laughs] It’s not the Madonna, it’s just Madonna.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: Okay, so they leave. They—
Jenny: More horrifying stuff is going on in the cave, but what’s important is that Willow is saying, "They will return. They will come back." Because Gnarl is like, "blegh! They left you."
Kristin: Gnarl is, like, busy fucking enjoying his own poetry. [imitating Gnarl] "Lock you in, nice white skin!" [laughs]
Jenny: I don’t—I really don’t like when he rhymes or kind of sings.
Kristin: So—
Jenny: As opposed to all the things he does that I love. [both laugh]
Kristin: So they’re all running in the woods and Anya’s trailing behind. And she’s like, "I’m out of shape, I’ve been teleporting for months." [laughs] Which is great, a great little non-throwaway line.
Jenny: Yep. Yep.
Kristin: And then we go to the cave. And this is some of the sweetest Anya/Willow shit I’ve ever seen.
Jenny: Oh, yeah!
Kristin: Right?
Jenny: It’s very nice.
Kristin: "She’s here, she’s hurt." Anya’s, like, genuinely present for Willow. She’s like, telling Willow what happens step by step, because she knows that Willow can’t see Buffy and Xander there. It’s really fucking sweet, and I don’t understand why they can’t fall in love. You know, I know this is a spoiler-free podcast, but fucking spoilers. They don’t fall in love! Okay?! [laughs]
Jenny: That we know of.
Kristin: I’m pissed. So Gnarl and Buffy fight. [Jenny sighs] I’m just gonna let Jenny find her place in her notes. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah, and…aw, while Anya’s kneeling with Willow, she’s telling her, like, "Buffy and Xander are here." And Willow’s like, "They didn’t leave me?"
Kristin: [groans] Gnarl jumps over Buffy’s head. [Jenny snorts and cackles] In a move that no one saw coming. [both laugh]
Jenny: Just, why? Sir, why? [both laugh]
Kristin: And Buffy puts a knife in his foot.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And then does what my sister did to my Teddy Ruxpin—
Jenny: [gasps] Rude. And what—
Kristin: In, like, 1992.
Jenny: The Mountain that Rides did to the Viper.
Kristin: Takes both thumbs and just pops those eyeballs right in his head.
Jenny: This is…so foul. And then Anya, commentating, "Buffy killed the demon."
Kristin: [laughing] "It was gross."
Jenny: [simultaneously] "It was gross."
Kristin: So because Gnarl has died, it means that Willow is unparalyzed, which is good except for she can feel all of the pain.
Jenny: No!
Kristin: Which is bad. But what’s great is it means that we get the comic relief of Dawn falling off the couch. [laughs]
Jenny: [simultaneously] Falling off the couch. So good. Get the hell off the couch, Dawn.
Kristin: Anya—again, like, Anya is just so fucking there. She’s like, "I’m gonna go for help." I don’t know, like, who she’s gonna bring—is she gonna bring back Doctor Ben?
Jenny: That’s what—from—
Kristin: [laughing] Like, what’s happening?
Jenny: How—from who?!
Kristin: [laughing] I know.
Jenny: Ma’am!
Kristin: But it’s still very nice, you know? So Willow appears sort of, like, Patrick Swayze’s ghost in the movie, Ghost. It, like, twinkles in. [Jenny laughs] You know?
Jenny: [hesitantly] Yeah…
Kristin: It’s just like—diddly-do-do-do.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Yeah, that’s what happens. [laughs]
Kristin: And then she’s there. Which is silly, and that’s the last silly moment, because then I just cry for a lot of the rest of the episode.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah.
Kristin: "There you are. [Jenny sighs] Don’t go away." [Jenny groans] They’re telling her she’s gonna be okay, and she says, [Jenny groans louder] "I know. You’re here."
Jenny: Y’all!
Kristin: Oh my god, I’m at the last page of my notes. Time flies when you’re having fun.
Jenny: Willow is…meditating. And growing new skin by virtue of the power of her meditation.
Kristin: It’s pretty cool, except for where is she getting the skin? You know what I mean? Like, she pulled the flower from Paraguay. Where’s she pulling the skin from? I just wanna know, you know? I’m not—
Jenny: No, no, no, no, no. ‘Cause you’ll grow new skin.
Kristin: She’s just speeding up the process.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Buffy’s like, "You know, it looks like you’re doing your thing in here." And she’s like, "Please stay. I missed you so much when I couldn’t find you." This is—all I hear is the fucking—Up. The dog under the porch? In Up?
Jenny: Oh, yeah!
Kristin: What does he say?
Jenny: "I hid under the house because I love you!" I believe. [both laugh]
Kristin: That’s exactly what he says. And that’s, like—that’s the same—it’s the same tenor. It’s the same line, with a few different words. Buffy says, like, "We missed you." And then she takes a really, like, self-aware beat to be like, "I missed you." You know? Which I think is really important, because—
Jenny: Good job, Wi—Willow. Good job, Buffy. [laughs]
Kristin: Yeah. And then, she says, "I have to make a confession. I thought it—like, I thought that you might have done that." And this is, like, what I think is a very healthy exchange between them. Because Willow is like, "First of all, you’re the Slayer. And, like, it’s your job to say hard shit out loud. So that’s understandable. And like, even though Xander didn’t say it, he definitely thought it, but he just doesn’t have the responsibility that you have, so he doesn’t have to say that uncomfortable thing out loud."
Jenny: I just wanna, like, write down, in my Shanshu prophecies—
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: That Xander and everyone who’s not Buffy has the luxury—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Of not saying difficult things. Well, not everyone. But like—
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Most people in this universe—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Can let things slide. But the buck sort of stops with Buffy.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And I think that’s just something that will be interesting to reread in your Shanshu prophecies as the season goes on.
Kristin: Yeah. I agree. And Willow also says, in this moment, that she also wasn’t sure.
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah, dude.
Kristin: Which is—that’s, like, the best honesty.
Jenny: That’s like—dude. That’s me, leaving a store, walking through the detectors—
Kristin: [laughing] Yes!
Jenny: And like, I don’t think I stole anything—
Kristin: [simultaneously] Did I steal something?
Jenny: But what if I did?!
Kristin: [laughs] It’s true. It’s true, I have the same reflex. So Willow needs more strength to be able to keep going. And guess what, Jenny?
Jenny: Buffy got strength to spare.
Kristin: She does. And so she, like, literally—it’s really nice. ‘Cause—and I think sometimes, like, these metaphors can get a little clunky. They can feel a little whatever. But I for one was very here for this idea, that like, we are seeing that what Willow needs is her friends. And like, it is literally the strength of her best friend that helps her mend these wounds. It works for me. Jenny, how do you feel about it?
Jenny: I think it’s great. I love it!
Kristin: It’s pretty great.
Jenny: Friendship! It’s nice.
Kristin: [sighs] And Willow’s back! You know?
Jenny: Willow is back.
Kristin: In Buffy’s room. So Willow—now Buffy’s room is Willow’s room, and Joyce’s room that was Willow’s room is now Buffy’s room. [laughs] Keep track!
Jenny: Thank you for clarifying? Question mark?
Kristin: [laughing] Pay attention. So, um, that’s the end of the episode. But we have notably not done a very important thing. Do you—
Jenny: [singing] It’s the most wonderful time of the show! [both sing different parts of the tune]
NOTES: [SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays] Sexual tension award!
Jenny: Well! It’s time once again for another round of the most important democratic process on the entire planet. It’s the Sexual Tension Awards.
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: What?
Kristin: [laughs] So thrilled to be here. In person.
Jenny: [laughing] Yeah!
Kristin: For this nom and slot party.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. We got noms, we got slots.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: We’re gonna find where they intersect.
Kristin: Jenny and I had the same four noms, without crossing notes.
Jenny: Without—yeah.
Kristin: Without checking each other’s notes.
Jenny: Yep, yep.
Kristin: Same four.
Jenny: And here they are, here they are. We’re gonna run ‘em down for you. In slot number one—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: It did get a little sexy, didn’t it? It’s Willow and Anya.
Kristin: It did.
Jenny: In slot number two. Your noms. The carpet got burned. [laughs]
Kristin: It did.
Jenny: It’s Anya and Willow!
Kristin: It did. It got burned. It was hot.
Jenny: So hot!
Kristin: So hot, it…inflamed.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: Inflamed?
Jenny: Combusted?
Kristin: There it is.
Jenny: In slot number three.
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: When did they get so insightful? It’s Jenkins and Rosenberg.
Kristin: Oh, yeah, they had a lot—there was a lot. Between them.
Jenny: A lot going on there.
Kristin: Emotions, you know?
Jenny: And in slot number four.
Kristin: Mmhmm?
Jenny: Your final set of noms.
Kristin: I’m ready.
Jenny: Damn, there are a lot of candles in this room! How many candles do you need for this spell?! It’s Rosenberg and Jenkins.
Kristin: [pleased] Ugh. Immolation watch, 2000—
Jenny: [loudly] Lesbian edition! [both laugh]
Kristin: The meter—the, like, sound meter [Jenny cackles] went completely red when Jenny said "lesbian edition." It just, like, went completely off the charts.
Jenny: Well! We do what we have to do, we do what needs to be done here at the Sexual Tension Awards. And we now must charge you—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: To also do what needs to be done. Please join us in our democratic process. Please vote in our Sexual Tension Awards poll for this episode. It’ll be live on our Twitter, @BufferingCast, from now for one week hence!
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Run, do not walk!
Kristin: Bring your candles. Get sexy. [Jenny laughs]
NOTES: [SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays] Sexual tension award!
Kristin: Incredible. Here we are. If you’re watching at home, this is the time [Jenny gasps] in a live taping where you get your phone out—
Jenny: Get it.
Kristin: Or whatever recording—you know, maybe you have a tape recorder. I don’t know how you live your life. But whatever rec—
Jenny: Fire up ProTools.
Kristin: Yeah. [laughs] Get your recording device ready, because we’re gonna do the outro. And you are gonna howl out with us at home, and then our brilliant, beautiful, beloved John Mark Nelson, who edits, will take all of your awoo’s and line them up so that we all get to virtually howl out together.
Jenny: Thanks, John Mark.
Kristin: Thanks, John Mark.
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: Okay.
Jenny: Alright. Hey! Hey. Hey!
Kristin: Hi!
Jenny: It’s my pleasure to tell you that I’m Jenny Owen Youngs. And when I’m not making this podcast, I am often writing and recording music. You can find my music on all the digital places under my name, Jenny Owen Youngs. You can give me a shout on Twitter, @JennyOwenYoungs. You can join me for livestreams on Twitch, on pretty much a weekly basis. I’ve got a new record-ish out called Echo Mountain. Just came out on vinyl. I made some custom Dungeons and Dragons dice—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: To pair with it that are very beautiful.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: And I’m also in a band called L.A. Exes and our debut album called Get Some is out everywhere digitally as well. So find me in those places, if you want to hear more of my voice all the time. And also, I talk a lot over on VMI Pod, my other podcast, with Helen Zaltzman.
Kristin: Yeah, I saw that you were talking about some new stuff these days.
Jenny: We ran out of Veronica Mars, so we’re just kind of, like, bouncing around.
Kristin: What did you just do? You just did an episode on something I was excited about.
Jenny: Our legal expert Lo Dodds joined us for a special episode on—
Kristin: [gasps] Oh, for Home Alone!
Jenny: The crimes of Home Alone.
Kristin: Yeah, that was—that’s some good shit. That worked on me, and nothing works on me. [Jenny laughs] I was like, ooh, I wanna listen to that shit.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: Yeah. That’s great. Also, L.A. Exes, my favorite band. [Jenny laughs] So I’m Kristin Russo, and when I’m not talking about Buffy, I am talking about, you know, things like Scream and Angel and other vampires and demons. But also, the LGBTQ community. I do a lot of talks. I go to colleges and most recently, I’ve been doing a lot of talks at workplaces for parents, to help them be more supportive to their LGBTQ kids, which has been really amazing. And you can learn about that work on my website, which is at kristinnoeline—Jenny, do you know how to spell that?
Jenny: [singing] Kristin with an I! N-O-E-L-I-N-E!
Kristin: [singing] Ding-ding-ding-ding-ding! [talking] Correct. And you can use that spelling to also find me on Twitter and on Instagram. And you know, then there’s us.
Jenny: Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram @BufferingCast. And you can drop us an email at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin: It’s true. You can support us on Patreon. You can buy some of our cool, cool merch. Or you can leave a review, but don’t leave one for us. You know? Go to Angel On Top, because Angel On Top is in a brand new freaking feed.
Jenny: Oh yeah!
Kristin: And they can finally get all of your supportive, loving reviews for LaToya and Morgan, because up till now, it’s just been Seasons 1 and 2 for your review.
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: So go—take your little butts and take them to iTunes and review Morgan and LaToya’s Angel On Top. Show them your love, show them your support, let them know that despite the feud! We love them.
Jenny: It’s true.
Kristin: Well.
Jenny: I can’t quit them. Uh…
Kristin: Is everybody ready?
Jenny: [stammers]
Kristin: You gotta probably hit record—
Jenny: Everybody firing up? Is it time?
Kristin: [simultaneously] Hit record right about now. I don’t know, are we done?
Jenny: I don’t know. [Kristin laughs] Did you do that? Yeah, you just did that.
Kristin: Yeah, I just did that.
Jenny: Oh, I gotta do this.
Kristin: Oh! Right.
Jenny: Hey, listen. And listen good. [both laugh]
Kristin: Jenny’s had a beer. [laughs]
Jenny: Like, three-quarters of a beer. This episode was produced by Kristin Russo, Jenny Owen Youngs, and Alba Daza, with support from our consultant, Mackenzie MacDade. And it was edited… by John Mark Nelson. And till next time…
Jenny, Kristin, and many listeners: Awwwoooooooooo! [Jenny Owen Youngs performing "Same Time, Same Place" off the album "Songs from Season Seven" by Buffering the Vampire Slayer]