Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 7.10: Bring on the Night
[CHIME]
Jenny: Oh! Hey, everybody! On a totally casual, uh, really sort of anonymously numbered episode of the podcast that we’ve ever made.
Kristin: It’s not a big deal. It’s our 200th episode.
Jenny: Two! Hundred!
Kristin: That’s a lot of episodes. That is, in fact, way more episodes than Buffy the Vampire Slayer ever had. [both laugh]
Jenny: This is true. Due to cast interviews, bonus episodes, two-parters, four-parters. [both laugh] Our inability to stop ourselves from making extra episodes. We have hit the 200th ep benchmark, as of the publishment of this episode. How cool.
Kristin: I know. And I, like—I probably would have missed it. It was just such a happenstance thing that I was in the feed when I was uploading, I guess, the Helen episode. And it was like, hey, this is your 199th episode and I was like, [gasps]. That’s significant! [laughs]
Jenny: Dang. Dang!
Kristin: Yeah. So, you know, we’re not doing anything except for feeling really good about ourselves for making 200 episodes of this podcast. Go us. [laughs]
Jenny: Go us.
Kristin: A couple of quick announcements before we get into today’s episode, Bring on the Night. The first is that we are starting today, as of the airing of this episode, we’re having a huge sale in our UK store. Only our UK store, and it is on every product that is in there. You can get 40% off, from today through Sunday. So
basically the deal is this: we’re keeping the UK store, but it’s going to be best sellers and staple items. So like, Buffering the Vampire Slayer centric stuff. Things like Smash the Demon Lizard Patriarchy, et cetera. And before we do that, we’re doing this one big sale. So if there are things in the store that you want, now is the time to get them. Because A, they’re really cheap, and B, they might not be there after Sunday in the UK store.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: So as usual, bufferingthevampireslayer.com, just click on Shop and you’ll see a link to the US store and a link to the UK store. There will be more information on socials as well.
Jenny: In…deed. Now, beautiful friends in the greater Philadelphia metropolitan area, let me tell you what. We will be live taping an episode, Storyteller, at World Cafe Live on June 11th. And as of right now, as we are recording this, there are less than 30 tickets remaining.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: All the information is on our calendar at bufferingthevampireslayer.com/jennycalendar. [Kristin laughs] And you can find a ticket link there. But if you are thinking about coming to the show, and you wanna turn that thinking into doing, I would advise doing it immediately! Do not miss out, please join us. There is still the ghost of a chance Frank is coming to the show.
Kristin: Oh my god. If it happens, I will ascend. [Jenny laughs] I will ascend, I tell you!
Jenny: Yeah. So will Frank! So get your tickets now, if you please.
Kristin: Also, just a little note, a little bug to put in your ear that the next episode we put up—it goes up, I believe, on April 20th—Showtime is the name of that episode. And in the intro, there’s gonna be some other announcements about some other things. So you might wanna listen to it. I’m just saying.
Jenny: Mmmm.
Kristin: You might wanna—you know? That’s all.
Jenny: Ohh.
Kristin: Speaking of putting bugs in people’s ears. [laughing] Do you wanna tell us who won the Sexual Tension—?
Jenny: [gags] [Kristin bursts out laughing] Uh, no? Am I allowed to say no?
NOTES: [laughs]
Kristin: You are.
Jenny: Uh, okay, okay, okay. The results are in…for the Sexual Tension Awards for the episode Never Leave Me. In fourth place, with—somehow—7.1% of the vote, Warren/the First and Andrew. Eugh! [both laugh] In third place, with 24.1% of the vote, it’s Buffy/the First and Spike.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: With 30.2% of the vote! In second place! [Kristin laughs] They’ve got a bright future, it’s Xandrew!
Kristin: Mmhmm, good job, boys.
Jenny: And with 38.6% of the vote, I wouldn’t say…that they had the time of their lives. But I would say…that, oh my love—
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: My darling.
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: I hunger for your touch.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Are you…[singing] still mine? [normal voice] Well, Patrick Swayze in Ghost and Andrew, are you still one another’s? With frigging 38.6% of the vote, in first place, I guess you are! Congratulations.
Kristin: Congratulations. Also, Jenny, did you realize that three of the eight noms in slots are incorporeal? [both laugh]
Jenny: I was just thinking about how…I guess when you’re in love, you make it work. You know?
Kristin: Well, but I mean, what could build more tension than you literally cannot touch the person that you wanna touch?
Jenny: [simultaneously] True, true. You just pass right through each other.
Kristin: [simultaneously] [laughing] Pass right through ‘em! So, yeah.
Jenny: Wow. Hot.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Well. [laughs] Thanks—special thanks to the 523 of you who voted. Much appreciated.
Kristin: Special thanks to Patrick Swayze for being perfect in everything you do, including winning the Sexual Tension Awards.
Jenny: Indeed.
Kristin: Alright. A little email note. I like to put them at the top of episodes and there are so many to choose from. I wanted to clarify a point from the Helen—Welcome to the Helenmouth episode. ‘Cause we got a lot of notes about this, and I actually find it really fascinating. So this particular note is from Michaela, who wrote in to say, "I was listening to your Helen episode and I wanted to answer your question about why Google and Kleenex and other brands get so up in arms about the public using their company’s name to refer to all companies’ products or services. These companies and their lawyers are afraid of a process called ‘genericization,’ in which a trademarked—"
Jenny: [gasps]
Kristin: [laughs] Did you have something—
Jenny: Sounds bad! [both laugh]
Kristin: "In which a trademarked name becomes so widely attributed to a market that it no longer refers to the actual trademarked thing. If this happens, the company can actually lose their trademark, which means that anyone, including their competitors, can use their name [Jenny gasps] without having to pay the rights to it." [gasps] I know! I know!
Jenny: Uh-oh.
Kristin: So we were—you know, we were missing this huge piece of legal information that really answers it all. I had no idea that if you became so famous that everyone was using your name as a verb, that you could then lose your own—that seems bananas to me. [Jenny gasps] But, um, a lot of you wrote in about it and I was really, really interested. So thank you, Michaela, and thank you everyone else who tweeted and wrote in about that. We are all just a little bit smarter, or at least Jenny and I are. [Jenny laughs] And now I guess we should bring on…the night?
Jenny: [gasps] Let us! Bring it on, the night! [Kristin laughs]
NOTES: [Buffering theme plays]
Jenny: Hello. And welcome. To Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast where we are watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, one by one, spoiler free, in tandem with the ga—[laughing]
Kristin: [laughs] What happened? What did you remember?
Jenny: In…in tandem with the gals I hope don’t hog the covers, Angel on Top!
Kristin: [laughing] Wow!
Jenny: I’m Jenny. Owen. Youngs.
Kristin: [laughs] And I am Kristin Russo, and this week, we are back. Thank you so much for your patience. We’re talking about Buffy, Season 7, Episode 10, Bring on the Night. Stay tuned at the end of this podcast every other week for an original song, written by Jenny, recapping the Buffy episode we are discussing.
Jenny: Bring On the Night was written by Marti Noxon and Doug Petrie, directed by David Grossman, and are you ready, Kristin?
Kristin: I am.
Jenny: It originally aired [Kristin gasps] on December 17th! [Kristin gasps] 2002. How does it feel?
Kristin: Wow. My 22nd birthday, on the nose! [Jenny laughs] On the nose!
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: Incredible.
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: Wow, wow. I’m so excited, this has never happened to me before.
Jenny: Mmhmm!
Kristin: [exhales happily] This is the one where I was 22, newly. And "Giles returns to Sunnydale—" yes he does!—"with three Potential Slayers." Wow, that’s a new word for our vocabulary.
Jenny: Hmmm.
Kristin: "Whom Buffy must protect from the First. Meanwhile, a ferocious uber vampire is released from the Hellmouth, and Buffy must kill it before it kills one of the Potentials." Spoiler alert. [laughing] Narrator’s voice. She did not. [both laugh]
Jenny: Uhh. Man! Let me run down the previouslys for you. Are you ready?
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah.
Jenny: Previously on Buffy the Vampire Slayer, Istanbul. Berlin. Giles and an ax behind him. Dawn saw her mom. Andrew stabbed Jonathan. Wood buried Jonathan. Willow found Andrew buying blood, Andrew got tied to a chair. Buffy believes in Spike. Bringers crash their party, stole Spike. Spike got bled, unleashing the Turok-Han!
Kristin: Yeah. This is, uhh—this is the kind of previously on that lets you know we’re just about smack-dab in the center of the season.
Jenny: And this episode, respectful regards to everyone—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Much like this previously on, is a little overstuffed. There’s, like, so much happening, especially so much dialogue happening.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: That, like—I don’t know, I feel like we’re losing a little bit—especially like, the Joyce stuff is, like, very…heavy?
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And good, and I feel like there’s just so much crammed into this episode—
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: That it’s hard to experience all of the really good things to their maximum.
Kristin: Yeah, I think this could have been at least one and a half episodes. If not two, you know? With a little extra, we could have two full episodes here, I agree.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: The only thing that I was hoping that you would do, when you talked about the previously ons, was say, [dramatically] "Gather them!" [both laugh] Which is my favorite, I love it. Every time they play it, I’m so happy about Robson. "Gather them!" [Jenny laughs] Yeah, there’s a lot going on. I mean, simply the line that we follow with Buffy, where she is going back to the tree lot, finding the uber vamp, getting the shit kicked out of her.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And giving this speech that we will of course talk about at the end. Like, that feels like its own episode, especially if you add in Joyce. And then we have the entire—what do you call it? The, like, rules behind the uber vamp and the First and the Potentials. Like, we learn—
Jenny: Ugh.
Kristin: It’s like, so much information in this episode. So.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Probably a cue to start talking, I guess. [laughs]
Jenny: Okay. Deja vu. [Kristin laughs] Xander has a window to repair, once again!
Kristin: I love—Xander was a good time in this episode. He starts off right there, making me smile. "It’s a loop, just like the mummy hand." And then he has a great idea. "Why don’t we just board the window up? Why not—?"
Jenny: It is…[both laugh] it is a good idea. Save yourself the heartache, my dude. At least for a little while. They’re trying to research…[Kristin laughs] this new evil. However, "the First" is not search engine optimized.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: They are turning up jack shit.
Kristin: You know what though? May she rest in peace. If anyone had heeded Jenny Calendar’s calls, perhaps the First would have been google-able, you know? Like, this was exactly the divide between Giles and Jenny, was that—
Jenny: Oh, mmm.
Kristin: Giles wanted to keep all the knowledge in the books, and Jenny was like, "But my man, it’s the age of the internet. Let’s get this shit online." [both laugh] Anya is—Anya, like, just in general this season, I think, is playing a good role of the ex-demon who can, like, make jokes about demons, you know? Like, she carries this a lot in the show. And she’s like, "yeah, yeah, I’ve heard it all. This evil that’s so evil it doesn’t have a name, the oldest evil of all time, I’m bad, bad, bad, doesn’t it make you horny?" to the record scratch—
Jenny: Uh…
Kristin: Of the room. [laughs]
Jenny: Plank!
Kristin: "Or terrified." She’s looking—I just wanna take a moment to say that Anya’s looking very, very hot. She’s wearing glasses and making good jokes and also being studious. It’s just—
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: She’s checking all the boxes for me.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm. Dawn…is…getting…slappy? Andrew’s asleep, and they want Andrew to wake up so they can question him. So Dawn slaps him in the face.
Kristin: He’s, like, passed out. He’s, like, a little more than just asleep, right?
Jenny: Yeah. Oh, sorry, yes. He is unconscious.
Kristin: [laughing] Yeah.
Jenny: The slap does not rouse him. She goes to slap him again and Buffy’s like, "Dawn. Could you not?" [Kristin laughs] And Dawn is like, "Anya gets to him." Anya gets to—we—yep. Anya did get to hit him.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Yeah. Anya and Dawn—and it’s mostly in the next scene with the two of them—but I’m like, give me—I would like that buddy cop duo. You know what I mean?
Jenny: Mmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: Just the ridiculousness of the two of them. Buffy is basically like, "Listen, I can confirm—like, Anya, you’re very funny, but I was face to face with this. Like, I saw it and it was enormous and it was ancient. And like, I think that this is actually for real. We have to save Spike, like, we have to get our shit together. Get me the Watchers’ codex." And then who hands her the Watchers’ codex, Jenny?
Jenny: Oh. The one and only Joyce Summers, of course.
Kristin: Yeah. Any time that Buffy has—
Jenny: [simultaneously] Really Joycing it up.
Kristin: Yeah. Any time that Buffy has, like, an emotional "Mom," it just really hits hard. And she—you know, she’s just like, "Mom? You’re not real. You’re the First." Joyce is like, "You need to wake up." And like, I will say—’cause, you know, I am not super Buffy experienced. I mean, now I’m super Buffy experienced, up through Season 7, Episode 10. But I don’t really remember all of the bits and bobs from the rest of the season. And so, like, I at this point am like, but that isn’t the First, right? Like, I don’t—
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: I actually don’t know. I’m not sure, I’m not 100% sure. But I do feel like the way that Joyce is being positioned is very, very different than how the First is being positioned. And also, like, she doesn’t seem—and maybe it’s the long con of the First, but she just doesn’t seem to have harm in mind for Buffy.
Jenny: Do we have any evidence that the First can get into people’s dreams?
Kristin: Oh. Oh, right. Good point. No, we don’t.
Jenny: Joyce also says, "You can’t win against this thing, not if you don’t rest." Beginning the theme of the episode, Buffy, please sleep. It’s not actually good for you. This is a…if the cabin pressure should change—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Rapidly, oxygen masks will drop from above you. Put your mask on first.
Kristin: Yeah. And I actually—
Jenny: Buffy, you have to sleep if you’re going to save everyone’s lives.
Kristin: I actually put the majority—I actually put nearly all of the blame on Giles. And crew, too.
Jenny: [laughs] Even though he’s not here yet.
Kristin: Well, but just, like, in general. This whole episode, I’m like, why—I’m sorry, but if I were Giles—
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: The minute that Buffy, later, is like, "I can’t sleep, I have to go to work." I’d be like, hey, guess who’s not working anymore? Okay? Guess who the fuck is never going to work again, because you are literally facing the oldest evil of all time, and you need to sleep. Like, sometimes stubborn people like Buffy, or myself, need to be told that they need to fucking go to sleep. And somebody needs to tell this girl to go the fuck to sleep, and no one’s doing it. They’re like, really letting her run completely on empty. And I’m frustrated about it, but I’m sure I’ll get to yell about it more in a little while.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: For now. She wakes up. And she also starts I think a theme that is beginning in this episode—though maybe it started a bit earlier—where she’s not sharing all of the information? And I don’t know why. Why is she not saying that she is seeing Joyce in her dreams? You know, ‘cause Xander asks her, and she’s like, "Nothing. I didn’t see anything." And it’s like, I thought we were, like, all trying to know this unknowable evil as best we could so that we could beat it. So why are you—
Jenny: But also, does she think it’s the First? She just woke up from a dream. I don’t think that she has any reason to think that she just interfaced with something—
Kristin: But even if it’s not the First, her dreams have—six seasons in a row—been really important. Like, Slayer dreams are not just regular people dreams, you know? And even if there’s nothing, it’s just, all the information on the table seems like a good rule of thumb.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: For apocalypses. You know?
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: Anyway.
Jenny: Alright.
Kristin: I call this next location "the chanty cave." I’m not sure why. Maybe they’re chanting when we first get there, but I just called it "the chanty cave" for the whole run of the episode.
Jenny: Spike does get dragged through a cave and among some chanting, the Bringers—
Kristin: [simultaneously] Oh, like, the Bringers? The Bringers are chanting?
Jenny: Yeah. I called it "the torture cave—"
Kristin: Oh. Yeah.
Jenny: Because I didn’t name it until later in my notes.
Kristin: Mmhmm. That’s also fair. [laughing] Also applicable. So the First, as Spike, sort of almost instantly morphs into the First as Dru and stays as Dru for this entire episode. Lucky for all of us. I would like permission—
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Jenny, to play the Drusilla jingle now, because, hoo!
Jenny: [simultaneously] Yeah, you don’t need my permission.
Kristin: Does she earn it.
NOTES: [DRUSILLA jingle plays] Dru...silla You...fill up My heart with dread And still I’m led Right back to you
Kristin: So. The uber vamp is kicking Spike and I am laughing out loud, in my notes. And I think it’s because it’s at this moment that I thought to myself, I wonder if Gnarl and the uber vamp would be friends. They seem to have some things in common.
Jenny: I have something for this.
Kristin: Ooh.
Jenny: But not yet.
Kristin: Okay. Alright.
Jenny: But I can’t wait to share it with you, when we get there. [Kristin laughs] For now I’ll just say, oh my god, his teeth.
Kristin: His teeth and his nail—I mean, his nails is what made me think of Gnarl.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: But yeah, he’s—ooh, he’s a really…fun little guy, isn’t he? [laughs]
Jenny: [singsong] Credits! Credits, credits, credits, credits, credits whipping us away [both laugh] from this…I don’t even know what to call. I just—you know?
Kristin: Yeah, I do. I forgot—’cause we’ve been—you know, the last time you heard us talk about an episode, it was before prom. So we’ve been, like, real—and before Jenny went on an entire east coast tour and also to South by Southwest. So we’ve lived a little life in between. So when I sat down [laughs] to be like, okay. It’s time to make a podcast again. Where did we leave off? The, like, thumbnail on Hulu is just a picture of this uber vamp. And I was like, oh. [both laugh] Oh, right. That’s where we left off, okay. So we come back from the credits to the scene that I was talking about earlier, where I’m like, please give me a Dawn and Anya spinoff. Where they’re [both laugh] throwing water in Andrew’s face. And then Buffy comes in, and they immediately, like, very suspiciously run to the couch and sit down. And they’re like, "what?" and she’s like, "what?" And they’re like, "We thought you were gonna ask what we were doing. What?" She’s like, "I don’t—what?" [both laugh] But then Andrew wakes up.
Jenny: Andrew wakes up coughing and sputtering, and Anya is quick to say, "Oh! Silly Andrew! You drooled all over yourself, how embarrassing." [both laugh] Covering her tracks.
Kristin: Yeah, he’s like—and then he kind of—like, the first thing he really remembers is like, "I was about to be dead. You saved me," to Buffy. And they’re like, yeah, yeah, enough with the chatter. Tell us everything you know about the First. And he’s like, the who now? Like, the what? [laughs] He missed—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: He missed some crucial scenes. And—
Jenny: They’re like, "The First!" and he’s like, "Name kinda sucks, actually."
NOTES: [laughs]
Kristin: I disagree. I would like to counter Andrew.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: I mean, he says, "Like Lex or Voldemort," and those are particular kinds of evil names. But I actually really like "the First" as an evil name. I think it’s good.
Jenny: Mmm. [uncertainly] Mmm…
Kristin: So, we head off to the Seal of Danzel-thorpe. Oh, yes, Jenny. Hands up.
Jenny: Yeah, we’re off to the seal. They ask Andrew what the seal does and he’s like, "Oh, I never found out, because there [groans] wasn’t enough blood, errr!" Dawn finds a bunch of blood on Spike’s little…[both laugh] the gigantic embroidery frame. Embroidery hoop.
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah. Yes.
Jenny: That they use to suspend Spike over the—
Kristin: You could make the biggest cross-stitch ever. [laughs]
Jenny: And then, Kristin, are you ready? There are just four shovels sitting there.
Kristin: Yep.
Jenny: They’re just there.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: So they’re like, oh, let’s use these four shovels. Now, let’s think, maybe, okay, so Andrew and Jonathan, that’s two.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: What are the other two shovels from?
Kristin: Well. Wood had a shovel, didn’t he? At some point? I don’t know. Maybe it’s just like—
Jenny: He seems to have his signature shovel that he’s currently carrying with him elsewhere in the building.
Kristin: Maybe it’s like, you know when you have a show and you give them your stage plot. You know, like, maybe there are stagehands for the Seal of Danzel-thorpe—
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: And they’re like, this is the set up. You know, it’s like, the seal is in the center. We need four shovels, we need a big cross-stitch wheel.
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: And these are the placements, set the stage, you know?
Jenny: Okay, okay.
Kristin: I thought you were gonna talk about—so there are some lines in here that are like, almost thrown away. And I think this kind of calls back to you saying, like, this episode is super overstuffed. But like, this line that Dawn says is really funny, I think. She says, "There’s blood. There’s a lot of it. It looks like the First made another sacrifice. Or a music video." [Jenny laughs] That’s funny! It’s like, thrown away—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: It’s just, like, buried in the recesses of this scene. But—
Jenny: Yes. Thin your episode out.
Kristin: Yeah. Regardless, they use the four perfectly placed shovels to cover up the seal.
Jenny: They do. As they are leaving, they’re for some reason walking away with all the shovels. They’re taking the shovels with them, the shovels that they found, by the seal. They are exiting the premises with those shovels. And as they walk, Andrew and Xander accidentally bond over their shared appreciation for a specific run of Wonder Woman comics.
Kristin: Ugh.
Jenny: Could it be love, Kristin?!
Kristin: I think it could. I love the two of them for each other. They both have major issues, but I think they could help each other become better men. You know?
Jenny: Mmm. Mmhmm.
Kristin: I don’t know, maybe they couldn’t make each other better men. I don’t know.
Jenny: Well, they could at least try.
Kristin: They could try. I would like to see them try. So here comes Wood with his shovel. I can’t even wait to get to the part where I lose my shit, with this shovel. Because at the end of this scene, he’s like, walking away with the shovel. And he, like, flips it. Like, very nonchalantly, he just kind of, like, lets go of the shovel handle and it spins and then he catches it again. And it is the hottest thing that I have ever seen Principal Wood do, to date. And Jenny, I would like to put a serious pin here, because we need a Wood jingle. And you need to make it for us, because we can’t wait much longer. The man needs—
Jenny: Ohh.
Kristin: A jingle. Okay?
Jenny: I celebrate this request.
Kristin: Thank you.
Jenny: I recognize the sanctity of this request.
Kristin: [laughs] So anyway, before I get hot and bothered by Wood and his shovel, there’s a lot of shovel lies to be passed between parties down here in the basement hallway. Wood is saying he found his in the courtyard. He’s just returning it.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: [laughing] Fucking Dawn and Buffy are allegedly burying a time capsul.
Jenny: Yes, Dawn asserts that "kids of today like Redbull and Jackass." Still true in 2022.
Kristin: Yeah. Oh my god. Total sidebar, but today on the radio, I heard—I’m so upset about it. I heard that Redbull is sponsoring this thing that’s gonna be broadcast on Hulu Live, where these two guys who are skydivers both get in a little plane. And they fly the two planes up to 14,000 and then they get out of the plane, so no one is in the plane. And they skydive and they switch planes as the planes descend. And they attempt to land the planes.
Jenny: Uhh, what happens if they don’t get into the other planes?
Kristin: I mean, I guess, like, probably the worst case scenario—I mean, hopefully the worst case scenario is the planes crash. You know, like, I’m sure that they have allotted for the planes crashing. What I’m most afraid of is what happens if somebody gets in a plane and it’s too late to land it? ‘Cause that feels…so I hate it. I’m upset about it, but now I’ve put it in all of your brains, so that we can hold it together. [laughs]
Jenny: Oh, I don’t care for this at all.
Kristin: I know. I just heard it today, which is the only reason I couldn’t contain myself when I heard the word Redbull. But anyway. Yes, Redbull and Jackass, still going strong. But also, quite a marker of, I think, 2003. My 22nd birthday, like, definitely is around the time when I was drinking vodka Redbulls at bars. You know?
Jenny: Ugh. [groans] Ouch.
Kristin: Hoo! Yeah. Also, [laughs] Wood’s like, "Um, but could you, like, come back to work? Do you think that you could—?" [laughs]
Jenny: Since you happen to be here on the grounds anyway, do you think you could come back to your job that I made up?
Kristin: And she’s like, yeah. I could probably do that, okay.
Jenny: And then they walk away from each other and they’re looking back over their should—everyone’s like, "Hmm. What’s up with that person?"
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah.
Jenny: And I just wanna mention something that Alba brought up in her watch notes, about how this show tends to position black and POC characters as individuals that we can’t trust. So I was doing a little tally and I came up with four types. Are you ready?
Kristin: Okay. I’m ready.
Jenny: Okay. Sure, sometimes we meet white characters that we also can’t trust. But when it comes to…[both laugh] BIPOC individuals, what we’re looking at is either a straight villain, like Mr. Trick.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: An antagonist, like Forrest or like the Native American spirit manifestations in Pangs.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Someone who is mysterious and as yet unknowable, sneaking about when they’re introduced, like Kendra, like Wood, like Senaya.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: And then we have individuals who might have a lawful good alignment, but they die immediately, basically as soon as they’re introduced, like the two Slayers that we see Spike kill in flashbacks.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: These were the results of my research.
Kristin: Yeah, pretty—
Jenny: [simultaneously] [sarcastically] And gee, it’s almost as if there’s, like, some kind of pattern.
Kristin: [sarcastically] Yeah, almost like there’s a systemic issue or some kind of, like, structure at work that—I don’t know, does it—
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: It might have a name.
Jenny: What could it be?
NOTES: [WHITE SUPREMACY jingle plays] You know what that sounds like to me? (What?) White supremacy! (Oh no) Woven in not too subtly (Ugh) White supremacy! (Uh-uh) Open your eyes and that's where you'll find it Crush that (squash that) White supremacy!
Kristin: Yes. Thank you, Alba, for your watch notes. I love getting Alba’s watch notes, I just wanna say that out loud in the episode. ‘Cause there’s like, you know, some like, hearty notes, like the one that Jenny just discussed. But then there’s also just, like, a lot of squee’ing and general excitement. [both laugh]
Jenny: Yeah, the squee’ing is my fave.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Also, would it be okay if I shared a prom anecdote about Alba, that I think—
Kristin: I think that the audience would love it, yes.
Jenny: The listeners deserve to know about. So there we were, wrapping up, night two. We had loaded all of the [Kristin laughs] gear into our car—vehicle. [both laughing] We were packed up and ready to go back to the hotel and crash. And then we looked up at the infamous half-circle Jenny Calendar window. And what to our wandering eyes should appear, but the silhouette of two individuals, rushing towards each other, meeting in the middle, and then one of them falling to the floor. Who was it, you may ask? [laughs] One of those individuals was Alba, and what were they getting up to? They were filming a reenactment of Angelus killing Jenny Calendar. And accidentally coming upon this from the exterior, [laughing] where it looked very cool and fun, was a highlight of prom. So thank you, Alba, part two.
Kristin: Yeah, I’m glad you told this story ‘cause I haven’t shared—I have the video footage from out—
Jenny: Yes, we have footage.
Kristin: [simultaneously] From inside and outside, as a matter of fact.
Jenny: [laughing] Yeah.
Kristin: So, now I have a good reason to share it. I can put it up when this episode goes up, so you can all see that. [laughs]
Jenny: Excellent.
Kristin: Alright, so. Where are we? Who knows? I’ve skipped—I’ve scrolled downwards. Okay, so we’re back in the dining room.
Jenny: We’re back in the dining room. Research continues. Dawn is googling "Danzalthar."
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Willow’s doing a locator spell and Buffy is still refusing to sleep. Why, Kristin? She says, "Xander, you couldn’t possibly understand. You didn’t see the First." And then—[both laugh] and then we see the First! She’s remembering in her mind, she’s conjuring up the image of a CGI horned demon straight out of, like, a late-80s fantasy series.
Kristin: Yeah. It really is.
Jenny: Like, Deathstalker.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: You know, or like, Conan the Barbarian, or something. It looks so…funny. And they double down on it, Kristin! They’re not retconning. They’re like, it looked like this in Amends and it still looks like this now. I screamed!
Kristin: [laughs] She screamed and texted me. It was like, nearly midnight. The awareness of "things are scarier when you don’t see them" seems to have, like, just missed the boat on this—
Jenny: Mm!
Kristin: This particular season. Like—or, you know, certain moments. But this—we don’t wanna see it. We wanna imagine it, guys. But also—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: We’re having a great time. So I guess thank you for that.
Jenny: [laughs] We’re having a great time, until—oh no—the First, while also manifesting in its goofy CGI demon form—it possesses Willow, whose eyes go black and whose voice deepens. And after, she’s so scared!
Kristin: Yeah. So, a couple of things. First of all, I will not not point out that Anya and Willow are, as I write in my notes, "back on their dust game." They’re—
Jenny: Oh, yeah. Just doing another little spell together.
Kristin: They’re like, oh, what should—how should we research? And like, [Jenny laughs] one of them pulls out a little vial of magic dust and the other one winks. And they’re like, you wanna scatter some dust on a map and see what sets aflame?!
Jenny: Yes! [laughs]
Kristin: So this is—and there’s a little—I called it a little cauldron. I don’t think that’s the appropriate name for it, but there’s a little bowl of magical things that they’re working with when this happens. And this is where Xander gets his second, like, really good points—it’s a gathering of good points for Xander here. Because he’s like, I’ve been at this shit six seasons, almost seven. He immediately—he doesn’t even think about it, he doesn’t say anything to anybody. He just picks up the entire vessel and smashes it against the wall. And that is what, like, frees Willow from—she hits the floor as that thing hits the wall. So just, like, good fucking job, Xander. I’m proud of you.
Jenny: Nice work, Xander.
Kristin: Yes. And then yeah, like you said, Willow is—she’s terrified. I mean, we just saw—you know, Conversations with Dead People wasn’t that long ago.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And regardless of if you know that you’re being—like, this is the thing, right? If you know you’re being manipulated, it might help a little. But it doesn’t completely—if you’re being manipulated well, as they are, this is in Willow’s head, right? She has killed someone, because of the way that she used magic, because of the loss, because of the grief. She has been in a position, super traumatized, where the magic was totally taking her over and, like, subsuming her? Is that a word?
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: And—
Jenny: It’s definitely a word, but what does it mean? Go on.
Kristin: [laughs] And she’s so scared. And so this feeling that she’s just had, even though it was for just a second, is totally PTSD here, you know? She’s so traumatized by feeling that again, even for a brief moment. And she’s terrified because she’s been told, by the villain of the season or not, that she’s gonna kill everyone. So she’s real scared.
Jenny: [groans] Yeah.
Kristin: Don’t worry—
Jenny: [simultaneously] No thanks.
Kristin: Ding-dong. Daddy’s home. [laughs]
Jenny: [gasps] Ding-dong, Daddy’s home, and he brought your three new stepsisters. [Kristin laughs] You know what this episode is like, Kristin? You know when you buy a sleeping bag—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: From the store—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: And it comes in a little sleeve?
Kristin: Yep. You have to get it back—[laughs]
Jenny: [simultaneously] And then you take it out of the sleeve and you sleep in it.
Kristin: And you have to get it back in the sleeve?
Jenny: And no matter what happens, no matter how you smush and swirl—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: And scrunch.
Kristin: Mmhmm. [laughs]
Jenny: You will never get that sleeping bag to be as small as it was when it was initially in that sleeve. It will forever be a sausage bursting forth from a casing. It will always be sticking out of the end, like the opening with the little drawstring. You’ll never be able to get it all the way back in a satisfactory way.
Kristin: Yeah. And it’s a good metaphor—
Jenny: [simultaneously] What do you think? [laughs]
Kristin: It’s good. I like the image, I think it’s appropriate. And also, it’s fun because it’s a sleeping bag, and it seems like we need at least three sleeping bags, at this point.
Jenny: We’re gonna need at least three. [Kristin laughs] ‘Cause here’s Molly, Annabelle, and Kennedy.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Annabelle loves the rules. Molly’s English accent is almost as good as mine.
Kristin: [laughs] I mean, Molly—I wanna see Molly speak to Angelus in the English and Irish accents. [both laugh]
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, nice.
Kristin: You know?
Jenny: And then we’ve got Kennedy, who likes to take charge of the situation. As we’ll see in a little bit.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Yeah, I mean, it’s funny. I didn’t think of this while we were watching it, but because of the way that you presented it, like, three—the three stepsisters, I’m like, oh, it is.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: Like, there is a sort of fairytale-esque—
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: Delineation. ‘Cause you know, it’s always three. There’s always, like—I feel like there’s always three, like, maiden. Or three—what do you call the…um…three ladies in waiting, you know?
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: Or three stepsisters, or three—I guess there’s only two stepsisters in Cinderella. But they are very much archetypes of a certain thing, at least at this point. Well. Annabelle only got to archetype level, then RIP Annabelle. But they all very much occupy different standpoints, different viewpoints, different energies in the room.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm. What do you think about Giles’ super wide whale corduroy coat?
Kristin: I think I—I’m really into it, but I couldn’t separate if I was so into it because it was something new on Giles.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Because I was excited that Giles still had a head on his shoulders.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Or because Giles is just hot. Almost anything he puts on works for me. So I like it. I have "corderoy, exclamation point" in my notes.
Jenny: Mmm, mmm. I feel like it’s a little less refined than his usual go-tos. It has, like, a real Salvation Army—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: 90s slash Gen Z feel to it? I think?
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: But it’s working. Go Giles. Looking good.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Listen. Listen. We don’t know what Giles has been doing, you know what I mean? He’s—
Jenny: Yeah, who knows what he’s been up to?
Kristin: Who knows what he’s been up to? He’s like—yeah. He’s—and I think—not to make it, like, immediately serious from that fun place. But I do think that they’re all kinda losing their shit. [laughs] So like—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Giles not being quite as refined—I mean, the fucking Council blew up. Like—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: There’s been a lot of shit that’s been going on, so I think it works. I’m here for Corderoy Giles.
Jenny: He has his hands in his frigging jacket pockets this entire episode. What—hug somebody, my dude.
Kristin: Ugh.
Jenny: Hug someone.
Kristin: "Sorry to barge in. I’m afraid we have a slight apocalypse." A good line.
Jenny: Also, Kennedy’s entry line. Walks in, looks dead in the face of Buffy, the vampire slayer, and says, "This is the Slayer? Huh."
Kristin: [laughs] I’m gonna come out strong right now and say, here for fuckin’ Kennedy. I’m here for fuckin’ Kennedy, okay? I like—this whole episode, she does good. And she gets the approval of Buffy as well. She rolls in a way that I appreciate. And am here for.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: Especially—we’ll get there, we’ll get there. Let’s fucking journey through some exposition, and then we’ll get to more Kennedy.
Jenny: Whew.
Kristin: We learn—what do we learn?
Jenny: These women are potential slayers. Many have been slain all around the
world, see: Buffy’s dreams. FBYID! Along…with their Watchers. The First is on a mission to end the Slayer line, which is…a good idea.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Say what you want—
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: About the First, but this is actually a pretty good plan.
Kristin: Yeah, it’s pretty smart. So Buffy kinda like picks this all up, and she’s like, okay, so the goal is to erase all the Slayers in training, then Faith, and then me. And I have a question that I would like to just keep on the table for the rest of the season, which is, does it have to go in that order? You know what I mean? [both laugh] Like, is it—
Jenny: Well—
Kristin: Do they have to kill—
Jenny: Appetizer before main course, please. [both laugh] I think of Buffy and Faith as a sort of surf and turf. My ideal would be the First versus both of them at the same time.
Kristin: Wow. Surf and turf. Which one’s which? Is Buffy surf and—Faith is turf. Definitely, actually, now that I—
Jenny: That seems correct.
Kristin: Yeah. I’m—again, macro commentary from me. The fact that the phone has not been picked up. They have not fucking called Angel and the team in Los Angeles and gotten Faith out of fucking jai—this is not the time, okay? We need to get Faith in the fucking game. And—
Jenny: Where. Is. Faith!
Kristin: Where’s Faith and why—and again, I’m getting ahead of myself. But like, we met Kendra, right? She had just been called, and we learned that Kendra had been in training since, like, childhood. Buffy is really the only Slayer, right, that wasn’t? Like, that didn’t get the memo until later? That—we’re to believe that if you’re a potential slayer, you’ve been kind of, like, taught some things.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: So why are we treating these girls like they can’t be a part of the fucking fight? I know we—like, a little bit, get there—
Jenny: Why is there a question about whether to arm them?
Kristin: I know! Like, what are we—what? You all—I just feel like we should create a manual for, like, how to fucking deal with an apocalypse for—
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: You know, at least for Giles. But also for the rest of them.
Jenny: At least for the writers. [both laugh]
Kristin: Just come on, guys. So. The other thing that I wanted to say, and maybe everyone knows this, is that Giles says, "The rest were killed along with their Watchers, in cold blood." And I was like, what does that mean? In cold blood? Do you know?
Jenny: Tell me everything.
Kristin: Well, I learned that it—basically, it came out of the medieval idea that blood is the seat of all of our emotion. So back in the day—
Jenny: Oooh.
Kristin: If you got angry or passionate—which, you know, we still say, like, hotheaded—
Jenny: [sings] Hot-blooded! Check it and see!
Kristin: [simultaneously] Hot-blooded, right, that like, your blood was thought to heat up as you got, like, more passionate or angry or aroused or whatever.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Oh my gosh, and so your blood would boil!
Kristin: Your blood would boil. And so if you killed somebody in cold blood, it was even more terrifying because it meant you were, like, emotionally detached from the situation—
Jenny: Ahhh.
Kristin: Which made it, you know, even—it’s less scary when somebody’s like, fully furious and kills somebody than it is when somebody’s just like, "I’m going to kill you now." So that’s what in cold blood means—
Jenny: Oh my word.
Kristin: ‘Cause I was like, but their blood isn’t cold. It’s warm when they die, right? What does that mean? [laughs] So now you know.
Jenny: Wow. So, we learn that the First hasn’t been search engine optimized because it predates written history. The only record Giles was aware of about the First was in the Council library. He lets everybody know that the Council has been blown up. [Kristin laughs] And all the Watchers’ Council members are dead. But he stole the relevant tomes from the Watchers’ Council before the building got blown up.
Kristin: Yeah, pretty smart. Do you think it was—
Jenny: And Annabelle produces them.
Kristin: Do you think it was while they were looking at the map of where in the world is Giles, [Jenny cackles] that Giles was actually skulking about in the library, stealing his book?
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah, on the map, there was a tiny blinking dot [Kristin laughs] that they just weren’t looking directly at. And it was Giles.
Kristin: Also, the minute that Giles says the Council is blown up, Willow is like, "Where are the books?" Like, she does not give two shits [both laughing] about the Council, which like, fair, you know, but—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: I thought it was very funny. Anya thinks that Giles…[both laugh] Anya’s like, oh, well, clearly if he stole the books, he also blew up the Council. [laughs] Just—
Jenny: Yeah. "Nice move."
Kristin: Yeah. She says, "This is what happens when you’re all stuffy and repressed." [laughs] Okay. So. Oh, this is another sexy, sexy moment for Xandrew—
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Andrew, who we forgot was there, is like, super invested in the story. [laughing] And he says something, in excitement.
Jenny: He says, "And it cost them their lives!" [both laugh] And Buffy’s like, "Uh, can we gag him?" Xander gets the duct tape, and it did get a little sexy, didn’t it?
Kristin: It really did. It really, truly did. Alright. The First can only appear in the form of dead people. The First is incorporeal. The First can only fight through its followers who are called the Bringers, and those that it manipulates. [takes deep breath] This is a lot of fucking—[laughs]
Jenny: I’m so…tuckered out—
Kristin: [simultaneously] [laughing] I’m so tired.
Jenny: From absorbing this information.
Kristin: Oh, god. There’s evil and then there’s the thing that created evil. And that is what the First is. And now Giles begins this, "Well, there’s only one person in the whole house can help us, and it’s you, Buffy" journey.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah.
Kristin: Which is a lot. "It falls to you. You’re the only one who has the strength to protect these girls and the world." Xander, speaking from my inner monologue, "But no pressure." Like, why are we doing this? And this is where Kennedy gets, like, major points right outta the gates. ‘Cause she’s like, [laughs] what the fuck?!
Jenny: This is not a plan.
Kristin: No, like, what the fuck kind of plan is this? And also, if this is the hellmouth, why in the fucking hell did you bring us right here? Good questions, says Kristin and also Buffy the Vampire Slayer. [Jenny laughs] Whew.
Jenny: Buffy’s like, "This is why we need Spike." And Anya responsibly counters, "Yeah, he’ll be very helpful. Unless he’s crazy or off killing people or dead or all of the above."
Kristin: Just…[sighs] you know. It just—I agree, Spike would be helpful. But there are a lot of people who would be helpful. Why are we only focused on Spike? The Potentials—
Jenny: Probably because of budgetary constraints.
Kristin: Right. But like, at least—I don’t know, it just—the fact that Angel is not even on the table for conversation and that Faith is not even on the table for conversation, to me, is glaring. Because we know that these are, like—of the people we have met, these are, like, the best fighters. Angel, Spike, and fucking Faith, they are immensely powerful fighters. And we’re only thinking about Spike?
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Speaking of Spike. He is…cosplaying as Buffy from Prophecy Girl.
Jenny: Oh yeah. Oh yeah!
Kristin: Right?
Jenny: The Turok-Han is drowning Spike, over and over again. How fun.
Kristin: Yeah. Dru. [laughs] "That’s why our kind makes such good dollies. So hard to kill." Now, this moment. I beg of you, listener, go back, watch this moment. Because the uber vamp thinks that this is the funniest joke he’s ever heard. [Jenny laughs] His lipless little mouth pulls back into, like, a half smile, half laugh. And I told Jenny that I had to, like, pause the show for, like, five minutes just to guffaw, ‘cause I thought it was so funny. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Dru does a little sort of dance where she’s kind of hiking her skirt up.
Kristin: So good! She’s so good, Juliet Landau. Like, these movements. You know that the camera people were like, oh. What are—okay. We didn’t know she was—okay. Okay. [both laugh]
Jenny: Then the tongue clock and we’re back to drowning, again. Okay.
Kristin: Yeah, she says, "You spilled our secrets and I’m not done with you yet."
Jenny: Mmhmm!
Kristin: Yes. And then we go to—is this State Street? I couldn’t remember what the name of the street was.
Jenny: State Street.
Kristin: Okay.
Jenny: Yeah, that’s the main drag in Sunnydale. Buffy’s telling Giles about ye olde evil Christmas tree lot, seemingly for the first time since Season 3?
Kristin: [laughing] Yeah, seems important.
Jenny: [simultaneously] They never discussed it?
Kristin: Seems like important information, but. Aw, remember when we were all at the Christmas tree lot? And Joyce and Buffy were picking out a tree—
Jenny: Oh. Oh!
Kristin: And Joyce was like, "Invite your girlfriend."
Jenny: [louder] Oh!
Kristin: And Buffy was like, "Invite your boyfriend." Ugh, simpler times.
Jenny: Oh my god. Buffy and Giles say that they miss each other.
Kristin: Yeah, that’s…
Jenny: Which is sad. But if you miss each other so much, Giles, why are you being so stiff and weird in this episode?
Kristin: Yeah, and also later, when she falls in the hole, why do you walk away? Okay. [sighs then laughs] Okay, so. Here’s one of the lines that Alba squee’ed at, which I agree. We cut back to the Summers house and Andrew is like, [laughs] talking to Xander. "So. How long have you followed Buffy?" [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah. How long have you been a disciple of Buffy? [laughs]
Kristin: Xander’s like, uhh, what? We’re just—we’re friends. This is when we get our grand sleeping arrangements conversation.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Willow is like, okay, we’ll put Annabelle here and Molly here and Kennedy’s like, "Well…" And at first you’re like, Kennedy. Why do you have more of an opinion on where people should go than the people who live in this house? And then you learn very quickly why Kennedy has an opinion, ‘cause she…is trying to get in somebody’s bed.
Jenny: Ah, yes. She hopes Willow doesn’t hog the covers, and Willow is…agape.
Kristin: Willow literally almost falls down. She has never been—I mean, and like, to be fair, Willow has never been flirted with like this. Like, this is—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Direct eye contact—
Jenny: This is overt.
Kristin: Overt flirtation. Oz certainly did not flirt like that, Tara certainly did not flirt like that.
Jenny: No, no, no.
Kristin: Willow is verklempt. She’s like, oh my god!
Jenny: Yeah. And this is magnified when Dawn rolls up and is like, "Does she wanna eat?!" and Willow’s like [babbles]. [both laugh]
Kristin: Here for it. I’m fucking here for it.
Jenny: We get information we don’t need, which is that Dawn burned the mac and cheese, Annabelle’s a vegetarian and Molly likes cookies.
Kristin: Mmhmm. Biscuits. [laughs]
Jenny: Great. And then we’re back to ye old abandoned Christmas tree lot. It’s December 17th—
Kristin: Why?
Jenny: [simultaneously] So I guess they’re not having a tree lot here anymore, but they left the lights up for…four years?
Kristin: Yeah, I mean, they—right. It’s like, did they not sell enough Christmas trees? Like, the population dwindled too much, they were like, ehh, they can come to fucking somewhere else—
Jenny: [simultaneously] [laughing] Yeah.
Kristin: The neighboring town, for their Christmas trees.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Yeah, so Buffy finds the entrance by falling through the floor into the—below, into the cave. And then we get a fight.
Jenny: Before we get a fight, Kristin, you know what we get? We get some scuttling. We get some…a character’s shape flashing across the frame, one way, and then the other. And this is where we see the Camden Toy connective tissue [Kristin laughs] between Gnarl and Turok-Han, the most, I think.
Kristin: Yeah, yeah.
Jenny: He’s like, ohh, a little gifty. [Kristin laughs] And then Buffy’s like, walking and turns and oh, shit! Turok-Han is right there. He’s like, boo! He’s like, Prank Sinatra.
Kristin: Yeah, it’s true. I actually completely forgot that Camden Toy also played the uber vamp. I know that we’re calling him—what is it, Turok-Han?
Jenny: Turok-Han. Turok-Han.
Kristin: But uber vamp just makes me die—I don’t know—uber vamp just is so funny to me.
Jenny: Yeah. Well, I think the—his whole look combined with "uber vamp" is…makes it really hard for me to take him seriously.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: So I’m trying to stick to Turok-Han so I can—you know.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Right, Turok-Han makes me—exactly. Turok-Han is, like, serious business.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Uber vamp is like, when he’s fucking Prank Sinatra. [both laugh] So, there’s a fight. And the biggest thing that happens—
Jenny: Hard puncher.
Kristin: Yeah, he is.
Jenny: He’s a hard puncher.
Kristin: This is, like, Glory level punches, coming from—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Turok-Han. And Buffy stakes him and guess what? Nope. That’s not gonna do it, pal. He pulls the stake right out of his fucking heart.
Jenny: [simultaneously] He basically, like, smiles and pulls it out of his chest.
Kristin: Yeah, completely unphased. And then we get what I refer to as the [laughs] stalactite slap. [laughs] And—
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: Proud of myself, because I looked up—is it stalactite or is it stalagmite?
Jenny: Ceiling! C for ceiling, Kristin.
Kristin: C for ceiling. Yeah, I didn’t have that cheat in my brain, but I was right anyway. My guess was right.
Jenny: [laughs] Also in this fight scene, the Turok-Han does a cartwheel for no practical purpose that I can discern. [Kristin laughs] It’s just between attacks?
NOTES: [both laugh]
Kristin: Before we—so, right. He doesn’t die. Buffy climb—so this is where I’m like, where the fuck did Giles go?
Jenny: Yeah, where is Giles?!
Kristin: She’s like, trying to climb out of the hole and no one is there. And at first—like, ‘cause I forget things very easily. And I was like, did somebody take Giles? Did something happen to Giles? [Jenny laughs] No, Giles is just strolling around the empty tree lot. Like, come on, man!
Jenny: Yeah, I don’t know. He maybe went to go check on the sun to see if it was gonna rise soon. [both laugh] ‘Cause as he comes back, he is haloed by the rising sun.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: And then Turok-Han cartoonishly holds his hands up against the sun’s rays and sort of hisses back down into the hole. And we get this beautiful Santa Barbara B-roll, baby!
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, the sun—you’re right, it is cartoonish. ‘Cause it made me think—the only thing I thought of when I saw this was Hocus Pocus, when they use the car headlights to fake him out—
Jenny: Oh, yes.
Kristin: As the sun, you know?
Jenny: Ahhh! Yeah.
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah. So, alright. The sun has come up, thank god, keeping Turok-Han down below. And Giles and Buffy return home and we’re really learning that there’s a lot of people in this house. Everyone’s in the kitchen, they’re all already awake because at least two of them are on UK time.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: And Giles—and this is, again, like, we kinda talked about this in a bigger way. But Giles is like, "Maybe you should leave." And it’s—I don’t—why? And Buffy again is like, the one that’s kind of in the correct lane with this. And she’s like, "No, they’re fucking here, so they should stay for this too." She says, "Welcome to the war room." Oh, more exposition! [laughs]
Jenny: You’re gonna love this new packet of info we have for you, are you ready? [both laugh] Giles tells Buffy that what she just battled was a Turok-Han. Giles says, "As Neanderthals are to humans, Turok-Hans are to vampires. They are the vampires—"
Kristin: [simultaneously] [singing] Hell-math!
Jenny: Oh, [laughs] ha! They are vampires that vampires fear.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: They are an ancient and entirely different race. And until this morning, Giles thought they were a myth.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Hmm.
Kristin: That’s a pretty big deal, for like, Giles to have not known that something was actually real, and then to learn that it is, you know? Like, he knows a lot of stuff. Do you think Wesley knew?
Jenny: No. [both laugh] Certainly not.
Kristin: So. This is the second time in the episode where I don’t understand why Buffy doesn’t share more information. One of the girls says, "Did you slay it?" And she just says, "No." She doesn’t say, "No, I put a stake in its fucking heart and it smiled at me without lips [Jenny laughs] and then pulled the stake out of its heart." I just—more details!
Jenny: Yeah, this would be valuable info.
Kristin: Tell everyone everything, okay? Like, first rule of an apocalypse. Tell everyone everything. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah, share your info, people. Giles suggests that Buffy gets some rest, while the sun is up! Buffy, you can’t do anything right now, please sleep. You’re in desperate need of sleep. Thank you.
Kristin: Nope.
Jenny: But she won’t. She won’t sleep.
Kristin: [simultaneously] She won’t, she’s gotta go to work. Ridiculous.
Jenny: She’s gotta go to work, and are you ready, Kristin? I have some data that could fall under the umbrella of Hell-math.
Kristin: Ooh, great.
Jenny: Buffy is googling "evil" at her desk. [Kristin laughs] And she says, oh, one through ten of…900,517 results. Ohh, that is a lot. I decided—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: To do a little research. Because I think the internet has expanded somewhat—
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Since 2002.
Kristin: Just like that sleeping bag, you sure can’t fucking stuff that internet back in the bag it came in. [laughs]
Jenny: You sure can’t. I googled "evil," and guess how many results there were?
Kristin: [gasps] Ooh, triple.
Jenny: Triple would be, like, three million. Right?
Kristin: Okay.
Jenny: There were 746 million results.
Kristin: Nice.
Jenny: So evil’s been hard at work.
Kristin: Hard at work.
Jenny: In the last 20 years.
Kristin: Wow. Wow, from age 22 to age 41, evil has increased so much. That makes sense.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: She—[laughs] so she narrows it by adding "manifestations of evil" [Jenny laughs] and it’s at this moment that Principal Wood walks around the corner. And he’s reading "manifestations of evil" as she panics and types, "in the movies?" [both laugh] It’s good, it’s funny.
Jenny: "You’re searching for evil movies?" [both laugh]
Kristin: Yeah, and then he has this, like, weird moment. Like, this entire exchange is very weird. He sits down and he’s like, out of nowhere, "Once you see true evil, it can have some serious afterburn. You can’t unsee what you saw. Dot-dot-dot. Ever."
Jenny: Buffy’s like, uhh, HR? [both laugh]
Kristin: Yeah. "Um…"
Jenny: Has anyone seen HR?
Kristin: "I think there’s something wrong with the principal?" Then she’s like, "What kind of movies do you like?" ‘Cause, like, clearly—I mean, I understand Buffy’s interactions with him. ‘Cause she’s like, what is up with this guy, but also, I don’t wanna, like, ask him directly, ‘cause that’s weird. So like, how do I ask him questions that might allow him to clue me in on some things? But [both laugh] I don’t understand the other side of this, which is the Wood side. And Buffy says, [laughs] "What kind of movies do you like?" And then Wood, trying to outline his last line, is like, [laughs] "Mysteries. I like figuring out what’s underneath it all at the very end."
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah, very unsuspicious, sir.
Kristin: [laughs] What the fuck?
Jenny: I also love when Buffy’s, like, scrambling to cover herself and she’s like, "ah, I just love evil movies. You know, like, Exorcist. [Kristin laughs] Blair Witch." Sarah Michelle Gellar’s delivery on that bit, like, just feels so deliciously desperate and like someone who’s never watched a scary movie.
Kristin: I agree. It’s funny. I mean, it’s not funny, I guess, ‘cause it is a delicious little moment. But I also noticed that. I was like, what a—like, it’s just this quick little thing, but she nails it. Sarah Michelle Gellar, you know?
Jenny: Look at her go.
Kristin: Giving us her all, even when she’s listing two scary movies. She was like, oh shit, I can’t say I Know What You Did Last Summer, I was in that one.
Jenny: Or Scream 2.
Kristin: Fuck. [laughs] Alright, back to the chanty cave, [laughs] where we get Drusilla the First, "Choose a side, Spike." And then we get a beautiful poem from Drusilla the First, "Wiggle, giggle, squiggle."
Jenny: A lot of gyration, lots of gyration!
Kristin: So much gyration. Spike, digging on the First, saying, "You’re not Dru. She was crazier than you." And it pisses her off, you know? Like, it pisses the First off.
Jenny: She’s not pleased.
Kristin: Then we get a lot of daddy talk from Drusilla the First. "Daddy, no kicking, I’ve been so good. But I can be bad if you like. [laughs] Bad daddy needs a caning."
Jenny: Euugghhh.
Kristin: Yeah. Oh, and we also get a "stupid stubborn daddy" before the scene ends.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Basically, Spike is like, "Get bent." I mean, he says "get bent" and he is saying it even without saying it before we get there.
Jenny: Kristin!
Kristin: Jenny.
Jenny: I am disturbed.
Kristin: Go on.
Jenny: Here we are in a bathroom.
Kristin: Well. We, like—it’s weird, the way this scene is set up.
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: ‘Cause there’s a school bell, with an exterior shot or something, and then we’re in a bathroom.
Jenny: Yeah, well, it feels like we are in—Buffy’s in the bathroom at work. Right? She’s scurried away, ‘cause she’s very bruised and sore and she needs to get a look at her wounds. And in order—Kristin! In order to access her wounds, she does not take her little jacket off. She instead unzips the whole frigging sleeve from a hidden zipper on the inside of the sleeve. And I…need to extend a question—
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: To our listeners. Has this ever happened to you? Have you ever encountered such a garment feature, a zip-away sleeve? If you have, we wanna hear your story. Please call us at 1-800 [Kristin laughs] ZIP-SLVE. That’s S-L-V-E. Please. Have you ever seen such a garment or is this…
Kristin: No.
Jenny: The folly of the wardrobe department.
Kristin: Yeah—
Jenny: Who just wanted to make it easy for Buffy to access her wound for the camera.
Kristin: I’ve seen—like, I’ve seen zippers on sleeves that go, you know, at most up to, like, mid-arm—at most. But usually it’s just like a slight wrist zipper, you know? Let ‘em flare out a little bit.
Jenny: "Slight wrist zipper." Wrist zip.
Kristin: But not this, and I had the same response. My notes say, "Suit zipper sleeve?! Question mark, exclamation point." What the fuck?
Jenny: Yeah. Yes.
Kristin: Before we even have a moment to really digest and process this—
Jenny: [simultaneously] [laughs] To process. This should have been our tip-off that this is a dream.
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah. Yeah, actually, maybe that’s why they allowed themselves to get away with this. [Jenny laughs] Like, it’s the suit jacket Buffy wishes she had. [both laugh] So, here’s Joyce again, in the bathroom.
Jenny: Aw.
Kristin: And they’re not in the school bathroom. They’re in the bathroom at the Summers house, which is what—
Jenny: Aww.
Kristin: Comes clear now. And it was very—like, it took me—like, if I hadn’t taken notes on this scene, I think I would have been a little confused. [laughs] But Joyce is saying, "Buffy, you have to heal." This—there’s a couple of line exchanges in this episode that I feel like are really, really important. This is one of them, right? "Buffy, you have to heal." And Buffy says, "I don’t have time." Then, Joyce very astutely says, "These friends of yours put too much pressure on you."
Jenny: Mmhmm!
Kristin: And Buffy’s like, okay but, like, you know, evil. And Joyce is like, "Listen, evil is always here. It’s a part of us." You know—and this is—like, I wish that Joyce were here and actually saying these things. Because these are important things. Buffy does need to heal, she does need to rest, her friends are putting too much pressure on her. And yes, this is the apocalypse, but this is, like, apocalypse number three? Four? You know what I mean? Like, it’s—evil is here, and this is a big deal. But it’s not a big enough deal for Buffy to really kill herself the way that she’s killing herself right now.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm. Is that how you take the "evil is a part of us, it’s natural?" Like, evil is a part of life? Or…’cause that’s where it started to feel First-y for me.
Kristin: First-y. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Not to be confused with "thirsty," it’s First-y.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah. BRB, I’m going on Instagram to post a First trap. [both laugh]
Kristin: A First trap. [both laugh]
Jenny: Please tag us in all your best hashtag First traps on Instagram.
Kristin: [laughs] I don’t know. I mean, from my understanding of the First so far, it just feels like the First wants to kill all of the Slayers including Buffy. So there will be no more Slayers.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And then do, like, really evil shit. So like, I just don’t think that the First [Jenny laughs] would also wanna, like, have a philosophical conversation with Buffy about evil and, like, its place in the world?
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: To me, it just—I don’t know. I think—we were just talk—I don’t remember when we were just—oh, maybe with Helen, we were talking about, like, the difference of when Buffy is called a killer or a Slayer—
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: When people refer to her as a killer and a slayer. And so, that’s on my mind. It’s just, like, this idea of where the darkness is inside of us and where the line is between good and evil is such a constant in this show that, like—
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Joyce and the presence of Joyce saying "evil is always here, it’s a part of us." Maybe I’m just so soothed that she’s here in the bathroom with us, but it just to me felt more of the same. Like, please lay your head down, baby. You know what I mean? Like, please, just put your head down. The evil will be here when you go to sleep and it’ll still be here when you wake up. Please just rest, we need you to rest.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: But I don’t know. Luckily for everyone, I actually don’t know. [Jenny laughs] I literally only know what happens up until this point in the series. [laughs]
Jenny: Unfortunately, Buffy wakes up from this dream, to discover, oh god, she fell asleep while she was counseling a student named Roger, whose name she didn’t even know.
Kristin: Whoops!
Jenny: She asserts, "I’m hip. I’m young, I’m cool, I’m not like the other adults."
Kristin: Oh, Roger is burnt.
Jenny: [simultaneously] And Roger’s like, fuck you, buddy.
Kristin: Yeah, this is where Roger learns that adults suck, you know? He’s like, you’re just like all the others, nobody gives a shit about me.
Jenny: Mmhmm. Mmhmm!
Kristin: He skulks off to probably go smoke a cigarette off campus. And then Wood—speaking of skulking. Just in case he didn’t make you raise your eyebrow enough with his last two lines of dialogue, he is pressed up against the blinds of his office window [both laughing] watching Buffy at her desk.
Jenny: Boy, it’s been a minute since we got to see someone through some—
Kristin: Mini-blinds?
Jenny: Mini-blinds.
Kristin: Yeah. Oh my god. Alright. To the Summers house. The sun is setting. And this is the weapon situation, where they are, like, giving weapons to all of the Scoobies, but the Potentials are being left out. Xander—[laughs] this is great, actually. I would like a t-shirt that says this on it. Xander’s basically, like, making a joke about death and Willow’s like, "Hey, hey. Don’t scare the new kids, they just got here. They’re not, like, as skilled as we are at joking about death and the apocalypse." [both laugh] And she looks at them and she goes, "You’ll be okay, or even better. It’s like our guarantee." [both laugh] I love it.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah. Not much of a guarantee, in my opinion, but.
Kristin: I mean. Better than dead, you know?
Jenny: Yeah. Willow says to Buffy that she’s sorry she let her down. And then she says, "With the magic going all ahh, and me going all eee, and everything going all err." [both laugh]
Kristin: Yeah. Willow and Buffy are really—you know, like, obviously no one’s okay. But Willow and Buffy are showing up for each other in ways that they haven’t really been able to a lot, in previous seasons.
Jenny: Best friends!
Kristin: Yeah. Real best friends. We saw Buffy help Willow out before. Willow is saying, I knew you needed help. Like, really trying to be there for Buffy. Xander is wearing a toolbelt that I love.
Jenny: Ooh!
Kristin: Like, everyone’s doing a good job. Speaking of Xander’s toolbelt, Andrew’s Spidey sense is tingling. [both laugh] Andrew is basically like, "Guys! Can I get out of the chair now? Please? [both laugh] I’m good again." To which Buffy says, "And when were you good before?" and Andrew’s like, okay, yeah, you have a point. [laughs] I was never good, but please let me out of this chair!
Jenny: Also, when Andrew is like, "I’m a bad guy," you see Xander reacting and also saying a line that has clearly been cut and muted. What is he saying? Does anyone know?
Kristin: He’s like, "You’re my bad guy." You know what I mean? [laughs]
Jenny: Ohhh my god. [both laugh] Wow.
Kristin: So we get a little—I think this is a cutaway moment. I don’t know, I’ve marked it in my notes as though it is. ‘Cause it’s just Buffy and Giles, right?
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And Giles is saying, "The sunset should be any minute. You have all my faith. They are depending on you." What—why is Giles being like this?
Jenny: [simultaneously] Why…both? Just how about the first one.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: "You have all my faith."
Kristin: Yeah, and speaking of faith, oh, I’m glad I said that, Buffy, because we should call Faith. [laughs]
Jenny: I just remembered there’s a whole other vampire Slayer.
Kristin: [laughing] An entire other Slayer that we should maybe get over here. And then we learn that one of our three Potentials, Annabelle, has left.
Jenny: And I think it’s interesting, because this is the Potential who, the whole episode, has been like, "We’ll have weapons when the Slayer deems we are ready."
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: "We will do whatever we are asked."
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: "We are really into the rules." But she just couldn’t—this is what happens when you’re all repressed, and stuffy.
Kristin: [simultaneously] When you’re all stuffy and repressed. [both laugh] Yes.
Jenny: You haul ass down the back alleys of Sunnydale, and you run your tiny little throat right into the waiting paw of the Turok-Han. RIP Annabelle.
Kristin: RIP Annabelle, but this is just foolish. It’s like, leave—I’m not even mad at her for leaving, ‘cause like Kennedy said, what are you all fucking doing? But not—
Jenny: Leave in the daylight, my dude!
Kristin: Right. Give yourself a head start while the sun is up. So Buffy finds Annabelle dead in the alley, which they signal to us ‘cause she was wearing a crucifix and it’s just lying all bloody in the alleyway. How many bloody crucifixes do you think have been found in the alleyways of Sunnydale?
Jenny: Uncountable.
Kristin: Absolutely uncountable. So, then we get a second fight. The uber vamp and Buffy are going at it again. This is intense—she—
Jenny: Dude. He is on her and she’s like, I cannot believe I’m gonna get my ass beaten for a second time by a monster that looks this goofy! Where is Turok-Han getting his little leather tunic and pants wardrobe? Is he making them himself? Does Turok-Han have a little needle and thread?
Kristin: [laughing] I think he does.
Jenny: And a tanning kit?
Kristin: I think he does. Those fingernails require a needle and thread. You know?
Jenny: Hrrrrrr!
Kristin: She spits her own blood in his face. We have never seen this before. Please tell me that I am wrong, but I do not think that we have ever seen Buffy Summers spit her own blood in the face of a demon. This is intense shit.
Jenny: I don’t think so.
Kristin: Also, the whole time, she’s wearing a peacoat. My notes say, "A peacoat, in this economy?" Are you kidding me? [Jenny laughs] A peacoat?! You can’t move around in a peacoat. Why would she put a peacoat on?
Jenny: Doesn’t offer the flexibility you need for your best—
Kristin: [simultaneously] Ugh. No.
Jenny: Little moves. They are fighting in this industrial warehouse setting, which looks an awful lot like—have you ever seen the Jet Lee film, The One?
Kristin: I have not.
Jenny: Well. Kristin, then I can’t possibly make this matter to you. [both laugh] But it looks a lot like the finale fight setting of that film. And while they’re batting each other about, I’m reminded of Faith’s original nemesis, the vampire who was the original—I think—employer, I guess, of Mr. Trick?
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: Who killed Faith’s Watcher, Kakistos.
Kristin: Oh yeah, Kakistos!
Jenny: [simultaneously] Who was a vampire who was so old, he had little cloven hooves.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: And I’m just wondering where the vampire—where hooves even get involved? You know? In vampire biology.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Right, like, evolutionarily speaking—yeah.
Jenny: And then, where do hooves enter the timeline with regard to Turok-Han? These are my questions. [laughs]
Kristin: Yeah, ‘cause Turok-Han—we’re to believe that Turok-Han is an ancestor of Kakistos and Kakistos—
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: Is an ancestor of the rest of them, right? Like, it’s like—
Jenny: Perhaps—
Kristin: The Neanderthal standing up, except for it’s [both laughing] the hooves—
Jenny: Yeah, we need a little The Dawn of Man or whatever—sort of—poster.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Yeah, I’d like to see the evolution. Also, does that mean that Giles is, like, one of those people who doesn’t believe in evolution, but only for vampires? Like, you know what I mean? ‘Cause he’s like, I thought those were a myth. It’s like, what do you think about—[both laugh] yeah, great. Kakistos. What the fuck did we call Kakistos? It’s driving me nuts, I’ve been trying to think of it ever since you said…I just remember having, like, a little jaunty name for Kakistos, but I can’t remember what it was.
Jenny: Buffy called him Kissing Toast for a little while.
Kristin: Ohh. Alright, well, if you remember—maybe it was just that. But if you remember that we had a fun nickname, just let me know, you know? ‘Cause I forget.
Jenny: Buffy dumps a fuck-ton of very heavy-looking pipes down on this fucker. And we’re like, huzzah, the day is won! And she’s still, like, trying to motor out of there. And then oh no, have you ever been more sad to hear a sound than the sound of these heavy metal pipes, one by one, fluffing off of the pile of pipes as Turok-Han stands and climbs out of this pile and immediately leaps, like, 20 feet in the air. This dude is serious!
Kristin: Yeah. I mean, really, vampires have, like, kind of decreased in their abilities evolution—you’d think with evolution, you’re supposed to be refining your skills. But it seems like mostly, that went to, like, unbuttoning your shirt and having spiky hair. You know?
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: Like, that their actual survival instincts and abilities maybe did not improve. [both laugh] As time went on.
Jenny: He also throws her through a cinderblock wall?
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Which is good, because then stuff falls on her and I guess Turok-Han goes away. Allowing Xander, Willow and Giles the chance to find her.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And take her back to the Summers house.
Kristin: Yeah, and she’s looking bad. But we’ll get there in a second. First, we go back to the chanty cave for one last exchange between Dru the First and Spike. Dru is like, "Do you know why you’re alive? You’re alive because I’m not done with you." And Spike is like, I’m out. And Drusilla is like, "What makes you think that you’ll even be good at all?" And what does Spike say? [Jenny gasps] What does he say, Jenny?
Jenny: Spike says, [high-pitched] "Because she believes in me!" [Kristin laughs] Buffy believes in me!
Kristin: Yeah, it’s a lot, it’s a lot.
Jenny: Good thing we were reminded that Buffy believes in him in the previously ons.
Kristin: Thank god, otherwise we might have been like, does she? No, she does, we just saw it, yeah. Okay, so this is the point in my watch where I got incredibly emotional. Because—and like, I know, we’re about to go into this very, very—this is a pivotal monologue in the series. You know, like, this is one of the ones that you remember. But before we get there, it’s just this shot of Buffy, sitting in this chair. And she looks—
Jenny: She is looking like one bruised apple.
Kristin: It is so hard to look at her in this moment. If you’re me, and I think probably most of you. She is not okay. And we hear these, like, muffled, kind of like, Buffy—instead of POV…EOV?
Jenny: EOV? [laughs]
Kristin: Yeah. [laughs]
Jenny: No, PO…H?
Kristin: Oh yeah, point of…hearing? Yeah.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: They’re sort of like, "What do we do? I think there might be internal bleeding. She’ll be okay, but like, she’s real fucked up—" like, just like, you know. And then, we hear Giles clearly say, "The First predates everything we’ve ever known or can know. It’s everywhere. It’s pure. I don’t know if we can fight it." So Buffy enters now, and it’s like, very apparent that no one knew she was even listening or around.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And she’s like, "You’re right, Giles. We don’t know how to fight it. We don’t know when it’s gonna come, we can’t run, we can’t hide, we can’t pretend it’s not the end, because it is."
Jenny: Ugh.
Kristin: "Something’s always been there to try and destroy the world. We’ve beaten them back, but we’re not dealing with them anymore. We’re dealing with the reason they exist. Evil, the strongest, the first." So. You know we’re gonna play you the sound clip for the rest of the fucking speech, of course we are. Come on. But this is—and like, they said earlier, like, this isn’t evil, this is the thing that created evil. But I feel like this phrasing of it is more impactful for me. It makes me have chills.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Right, "We’re not dealing with them anymore, we’re dealing with the reason they exist. Evil." It just feels—we’ve been—I mean, listen. We’ve had this podcast since, like, you know, 2016. That’s a totally normal year to be alive in the United States.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And I just feel like to that conversation, and to the conversation where we overlay the themes of Buffy to, like, the larger world, there’s something very bone-chilling about that. Right? This is no longer about them. It’s about the why. It’s about what’s underneath. It’s about, like—
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: You know, the root of it all, the evil of it all. And that is fucking chilling.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah, man. It’s next level.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: For them.
Kristin: Yeah. And us. [both laugh] So. So Giles is like, "Um, Buffy, I know you’re tired," and it isn’t even—I don’t even think Giles is responding to what she said. I think he’s just seeing her and feeling the way that I felt when I was seeing her earlier.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And so let’s listen to the rest of Buffy’s speech here.
NOTES: [Clip from episode plays]
Buffy: I'm beyond tired. I'm beyond scared. I'm standing on the mouth of hell, and it is gonna swallow me whole. And it'll choke on me. We're not ready? They're not ready. They think we're gonna wait for the end to come, like we always do. I'm done waiting. They want an apocalypse? Oh, we'll give ‘em one. Anyone else who wants to run, do it now. ‘Cause we just became an army. We just declared war. From now on, we won't just face our worst fears, we will seek them out. We will find them, and cut out their hearts one by one, until the First shows itself for what it really is. And I'll kill it myself. There is only one thing on this earth more powerful than evil, and that's us. Any questions?
Kristin: Whew!
Jenny: [simultaneously] When this girl says, "And it’ll choke on me!"
Kristin: Ugh.
Jenny: [makes guitar sound] Heavy metal guitar, [makes guitar riff]—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: We’re not ready? [guitar riff] They’re not ready! [Kristin laughs] [guitar riff] They want an apocalypse? Et cetera. Cue the strings! [sings notes]
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah. Are you saying that this speech is very metal? [laughs]
Jenny: Uh, it’s like, metal. It’s cinematic—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: It’s just very, like, stadium-ready.
Kristin: It’s good. "It’ll choke on me" is one of—it has to be one of my favorite lines of the whole series.
Jenny: Pretty tight.
Kristin: It’s so good. It’s so fucking good. Because it just encapsulates this fucking idea that, like, I might not live to see tomorrow. But I’m gonna make it as difficult for this motherfucker as I can on my way out. And that is—
Jenny: Mmhmm!
Kristin: Oooh! As Jenny Owen Youngs would say, a spicy fucking meatball. That’s some good shit right there.
Jenny: Kristin, I assure you, the gabagool is fresh.
Kristin: [laughs] So, we’re in it. And I have to say, like, we are only at Episode 10. This is quite a monologue for Episode 10. This is, like, finale-level monologuing.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah.
Kristin: It’s like, guys, I’m looking at my watch. Like, we still have twelve—we have—do you know we have twelve to go? Because… [laughs]
Jenny: [simultaneously] We’ve got, like, twelve more episodes. Do you wanna…save of this stuff for the end? [both laugh]
Kristin: Yeah. But a lot—agreeing with Jenny from before. This could have been probably two episodes. We could have maybe unspooled the exposition a little better—
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: So that we had some more things to chew on, instead of just getting, like, information dumps. But ooh! I would do it all over again for this monologue.
Jenny: As. Would. I. And speaking of really cramming it in, I think it’s time that we take a little detour over to the Sexual Tension Awards.
Kristin: I know nothing makes me feel sexier than hearing somebody say "cram it in."
NOTES: [SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays] Sexual tension award!
Jenny: Well, welcome back to our first post-prom Sexual Tension Awards! Feels like a whole new universe, doesn’t it, Kristin?
Kristin: It does. It’s like starting again. It’s like recharging our engines, you know?
Jenny: Yes. Spring is in the air. [Kristin laughs] Trees are leafin’ out.
Kristin: Yeah, it’s like the Twitterpated Tension Awards.
Jenny: [laughs] What?
Kristin: Remember? Twitterpated. From Bambi. Come on.
Jenny: Ohh, I don’t remember. I haven’t—
Kristin: It’s like the cartoon child version of getting horny. [laughs]
Jenny: Eeek! No, don’t remind me. Don’t tell me what this is.
Kristin: [simultaneously] It is though! I’m so sorry to everyone. I didn’t realize that I was even gonna say that. But it is, it’s like, spring is in the air and they all get twitterpated, and that’s when they all find partners. [laughs]
Jenny: This feels…inappropriate. And I’m—as the host of the Sexual Tension Awards, I’m saying that. [laughs]
Kristin: I didn’t write it. I’m just telling you.
Jenny: Okay. Racing as fast as I possibly can away, in a different direction—[laughs]
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Let me tell you about our many noms, in their various slots, for this episode’s STAs. In slot number one, there’s a lot going on. There’s Wonder Woman, there’s duct tape, there’s memories of interrogations gone by. [Kristin laughs] Will sparks fly and will their pillow talk be at least partially in Klingon? It’s Xandrew!
Kristin: Whew. Yeah, baby.
Jenny: In slot number two, these girls, these girls and their dust! They can’t stay away. [Kristin laughs] They can’t help but make it get a little sexy. It’s Anya and Willow!
Kristin: Oh, love you guys.
Jenny: In slot number three, with a directness that is alarming to me. [both laugh] But not to everyone. Hoping that no covers shall be hogged, it’s Willow and Kennedy. Eeeek!
Kristin: I’m here for it!
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Kennedy, be as direct as you need to.
Jenny: Yeah. Okay. [both laugh] And in slot number four, Anya’s heard it all. You know this. We know this. But why not consider all of what she has heard? From the many bad, bad, baddie-bad-bad, bad demons whomst may or may not have made her horny in their [Kristin laughs] retellings of their various bad, bad exploits. [both laugh]
Kristin: Listen, for me, it’s—for me, it’s a battle between Xandrew versus Kennedy and Willow. Those are—these are the two reasons that we, like, invented the Sexual Tension Awards. You know? Like, not to—whatever, the other two are good. But like, there’s a lot of…lot of things that are happening [Jenny laughs] between the four of those guys. Okay? Alright.
Jenny: Well. You know what Kristin wants, but what do you want? What does your heart of hearts call out for? Please let us know by participating in this episode’s Sexual Tension Awards Twitter poll, which you can find @BufferingCast, for one week following the publishing of this episode.
NOTES: [SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays] Sexual tension award!
Kristin: Well, Jenny. [sings] Another one bites the dust!
Jenny: Oh my good…gravy.
Kristin: [sings] And another one down and another one down, another one bites the dust!
Jenny: I can’t even believe it. I can’t believe how we are racing along.
Kristin: Shhh, sh-sh-sh-sh-sh. We’re moving so tidily—
Jenny: [simultaneously] Sorry.
Kristin: And slowly, carefully and cautiously. Not even halfway through yet. We have miles to go. So…[Jenny laughs] a medium episode—sort of, like, a fantastic episode and a not-so fantastic episode together, in one episode. [both laugh] Right? That’s the final rating on this guy, Bring on the Night?
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: Probably one of the best monologues in the whole series, a lot of exposition, Giles in corduroy. You know, like, positives and negatives all around.
Jenny: Mmmm. Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: RIP Annabelle. We hardly knew ye.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Never RIP Turok-Han. Can’t kill that guy.
Jenny: [laughs] Nope.
Kristin: And I guess we’ll just see what happens next, won’t we, Jenny?
Jenny: Indeed we shall. Man, have you checked out the episode image on Hulu for the next episode?
Kristin: I haven’t. [Jenny cackles; Kristin laughs] Do you wanna tell me what it is—
Jenny: You’re gonna love it.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Or I’ll just be surprised?
Jenny: I’d like you to be surprised.
Kristin: Okay.
Jenny: Everyone at home who’s watching on Hulu, bon appetit. [both laugh] Well, that’s it for this episode, I suppose, for now! I am Jenny Owen Youngs. And when I’m not watching Buffy, I’m usually writing, recording, and oh my gosh, performing! [Kristin gasps] Songs. I just got home, at the time of this taping, from my east coast dates with friend of the pod, Hrishikesh Hirway. And we are gonna be playing some more shows in May, in Seattle, Portland, San Francisco, and Los Angeles. Tickets and info at jennyowenyoungs.com. Snag your tickets and while you are waiting, watching the clock, praying for time to speed along so that you can come to my show sooner. Pass that time by finding my songs on your favorite digital music platform, listening on repeat. Find me on socials @JennyOwenYoungs or join me on Twitch for basically weekly streams. Come hang out.
Kristin: Yeah, you should go—I mean, do all those things. But like, now I can say that I have seen not one, but two of the shows. I saw the show in Saugerties, New York and I saw the show in Brooklyn, New York. And it is a really fucking cool thing to go and do. It is not—
Jenny: Aw!
Kristin: It really is! It’s like, you know—it’s not a podcast taping and it’s not just a concert of music. It’s like, two wonderful humans sitting on the stage, showing incredible pictures from their life and telling stories, and then singing beautiful songs. It’s not a thing that you get to do very often, and it’s really special. So if you are lucky enough to be on the west coast, I also say, get yourself a fucking ticket.
Jenny: Aww, thanks, Kristin!
Kristin: You’re welcome. And yeah, my name is Kristin Russo. My website and my social handles are my first and middle name, which is Kristin Noeline, K-R-I-S-T-I-N N-O-E-L-I-N-E. If you go on over to my website, you can learn about the work that I do with LGBTQ communities. It is April or almost—yeah, as of this airing, it’ll be April. And what that means for me is that everyone is realizing it’s almost June, and that’s Pride month. So they are calling me to speak at their workplaces, so if that’s you, and you need to schedule an event, now’s the time. ‘Cause June can be a lift. So you can book me to speak at your place—and any month of the year. And yeah, you know, you can learn about my cats and other gallivanting that I do on my social media. I’m on Instagram and on Twitter.
Jenny: Aw. Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram @BufferingCast. And you can drop us an email at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin: You can support the work that we do, in one of many ways. First and foremost, Patreon is a great direct way to support us and also comes with a lot of really fun perks. You can get the music in advance, you can come hang out with us, you can listen to bonus podcasts, you can get chord sheets. There’s just, like, a lot going on over there.
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: You can also buy some of our merchandise. New hot, hot keychains that get you access into Room 3 at the Sunnydale Motor Inn—
Jenny: Ow-owww!
Kristin: Are up now. Or you can just, like, be lovely. But you already are, so you’re doing that one already. Good job.
Jenny: Oh, yeah, nice work. [Kristin laughs] This episode was produced by Kristin Russo, Jenny Owen Youngs, and Alba Daza, with support from our consultant, Mackenzie MacDade. It was edited by John Mark Nelson. And, till next time…
Both: Awwoooooooooo! [The song "Bring on the Night" plays]