Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 5.03: The Replacement
Kristin: Today's episode is supported by Thinx. Thinx is period-proof underwear that absorbs up to four tampons' worth of your flow, keeping you fresh, dry and comfortable all cycle long. They're washable, they're reusable so you can also have a more sustainable period. And every purchase contributes to their Give Rise program, fighting for better access to puberty education. To learn more about Thinx underwear that absorbs your period, visit periodbetter.com and use our special code "buffering" to get $10 off your first pair.
Jenny: Support from today's episode comes from Buffy. Not just the Slayer, but also, the comforter. Buffy makes bedding that is earth-friendly and cruelty free. Their latest product, The Breeze, is a comforter made entirely from 100% eucalyptus fiber to regulate temperature and keep you cool and comfortable all night long. And Buffy offers a free trial, so if you don't love it, return it at no cost. For $20 off your Buffy comforter, visit buffy.co and enter code "buffering." That's buffy.co and enter code "buffering" for $20 off.
NOTES: [CHIME]
Jenny: Well hello, hey. Hi.
Kristin: Hi.
Jenny: Hey.
Kristin: What's up?
Jenny: Hey! Well! We've got a new shirt!
Kristin: [laughs] Wow. Not even like, "hello, it's Jenny." Just like, "hi."
Jenny: Kristin! Kristin, we've had four episodes in 15 days.
Kristin: [laughs] It's true!
Jenny: I feel like I've recorded an intro to an episode, like, every waking hour of my life.
Kristin: [laughs] Okay, we have a new shirt, you're right.
Jenny: I don't have time for small talk!
Kristin: You're right, you're right.
Jenny: We don't need to catch up. I talk to you every day.
Kristin: [laughs] Okay, but we have a new shirt. Tell them all about it.
Jenny: Okay. Devan Power designed it. He's amazing. It's a new variation on the Just Keep Fighting theme. There is a girl, she looks tough, she's got a stake in her hand, and she wants you to just keep fighting.
Kristin: Yeah, you might say there's only one of her in the world, as a matter of fact.
Jenny: That's right. You might.
Kristin: It's really beautiful, I cannot wait to get mine in the mail.
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: We get ours for free, we're pretty lucky like that.
Jenny: Yeah, we know a guy. So it's not a big deal.
Kristin: [laughs] If you want a shirt, you can either start a podcast and make one.
Jenny: Yep, yep.
Kristin: Or you can go to bufferingthevampireslayer.com and click on Shop. While you are over there clicking on Shop, perhaps you also want to click on Events, because we have an upcoming event in San Francisco, December 6th that seems far away but it's not! 'Tis almost the season, as someone might say.
Jenny: 'Tis!
Kristin: We are doing a live taping of Fool For Love at the Brava Theater. There's a few tickets left, you can go to bufferingthevampireslayer.com/jennycalendar, if you wanna be real creative. Or you can just click on Events and all the ticketing information is there for you.
Jenny: Yes. Yes! Yes! Speaking of Jennys and phone numbers, did you know that my name is Jenny and then there's a famous song about a Jenny's phone number and then also, we have a phone number now?
Kristin: [singing] 867-5309… that's not—
Jenny: Yeah, that's not our phone number. Don't call that one, call 216-30-BUFFY, and you can leave us a voicemail if you want. Hell freaking yeah!
Kristin: It's pretty fun, we've been really enjoying the ones that have been coming through. Your thoughts, your questions, your comments. We'll be making a mailbag episode for our patrons and sometimes we will even put your message right here in the episode. Uh, we also have a pretty big announcement coming your way on the dates and location for this year's [singsong] Buffy Prom! The third annual prom is happening, and we'll have all the information you could ever want in two weeks. Unless you're one of our patrons, and then hey, you already have that information.
Jenny: Yeah, and if anybody has any ideas or suggestions about what color suit I should get this year, you can go ahead and use that phone number we already mentioned and just leave us… [Kristin laughs] a voicemail. Thank you.
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: Speaking of me in a suit, it's time for Sexual Tension winners—
Kristin: Yeah!
Jenny: From Episode 5.02, Real Me.
Kristin: I'm floored by this spread. I'm just gonna say it.
Jenny: [laughing] Oh my god!
Kristin: I don't know who our listeners even are anymore. But please tell them the results.
Jenny: Yeah, this is confusing! Okay.
Kristin: This is fucked up results!
Jenny: In an epic overturning of expectations that nobody saw coming… [Kristin laughs] trailing way the hell behind in fourth place, with 9% of the vote, we have Riley and Joyce.
Kristin: What the hell?!
Jenny: Who deserved better!
Kristin: I mean, Riley and Joyce? Nobody likes a cougar? Come on!
Jenny: I mean! Then… even more confoundingly [Kristin laughs] with 16% of the vote, it's Willow and Buffy's work ethic. We thought we knew you.
Kristin: I'm confused all the way down. Keep going, Jenny.
Jenny: Then in second place—relatable. Spike and Harmony have 35% of the vote. And then! You enigmas, you mysterious, unknowable mysteries. You phantoms in the mist gave Giles and his new car 40% of the vote—
Kristin: [laughs] Unbelievable.
Jenny: Allowing them to sweep first place.
Kristin: Un-fucking-believable. I mean, listen—
Jenny: I don't know what to think. I don't know anything anymore!
Kristin: I know. I mean, I'm here for Giles and his new car. But I really—just really felt like Spike and Harmony were gonna—whatever. Listen, this is what democracy is all about. And you have voted.
Jenny: Yeah! And sometimes you get unexpected results. Wee!
Kristin: You do. So… wow.
Jenny: Wow indeed.
Kristin: Jenny… the only thing spookier than the results of last episode's Sexual Tension Awards is, you know, Spooky News.
NOTES: [SPOOKY NEWS jingle plays] Spooky news!
Kristin: Okay, this spooky news entry—by the way, if you have spooky news for me, you can email it to us at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com. I have a whole folder full of spooky news. Sometimes I wonder why I've done this to myself, but you can send me spooky news stories there. This week, Jenny, the headline—first of all, the website I'm reading off of is MysteriousUniverse.org.
Jenny: Nice! Dot org, I love it.
Kristin: [laughs] Dot org, yeah. They're not fucking around. They are reporting on a story, the headline of which is "Terrified Woman was Sucked into the Grave of her Parents."
Jenny: [laughing nervously] What?
Kristin: Okay. So, listen. This woman, her name is Joanne. She lives in North Bellmore on New York's Long Island.
Jenny: Nice.
Kristin: She went to the cemetery in—this is 2016. The reason it's a news article now is because she's suing the cemetery. [laughs]
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: She went to the cemetery to visit the graves of her parents. They were buried in '95 and 1992. She bent down to fix a wreath on the grave and was sucked rapidly into the ground. She smashed her head on the tombstone of one of her parents!
Jenny: Oh my god!
Kristin: There was no one else at the fucking graveyard to save her!
Jenny: What?!
Kristin: But she managed to reach out—
Jenny: Ugh!
Kristin: And grab the headstone so that she didn't get sucked underground. So she's suing the cemetery for, you know—
Jenny: What the fuck.
Kristin: Terror?!
Jenny: That, yeah.
Kristin: Pretty fucked up. So the thing that takes this from spooky news to spooooky news is that she got sucked into the thing, it was really scary. But then, add to the… is it just the fact that the grave was—'cause you know, they're suing 'cause the grave was not done properly so the ground was shifting. Sure, sure, sure. We've seen enough Buffy to know better.
Jenny: Mm-hmm.
Kristin: This cemetery… it opened in 1953. It's the final resting place for a number of people, including the family that was murdered by Ronald DeFeo Jr. If that name rings a bell, it's because that family murder happened at 112 Ocean Avenue in Amityville—
Jenny: Ahh!
Kristin: Which is the inspiration—
Jenny: Ahh!
Kristin: For The Amityville Horror.
Jenny: Ahhhh!
Kristin: That's a fucking Halloween anticipatory spooky fucking news for you.
NOTES: [SPOOKY NEWS jingle plays] Spooky news!
Jenny: Whew! Well. Backing slowly away from that news item...I just have one thing left to say, and that's that I, your friend Jenny, have a song coming out on Friday! That's, like, two days from today. And it's called Gravitron and it'll be streaming everywhere as of Friday. And furthermore—
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: The preorder for the EP that it's on is still running for a little bit. The EP comes out in November, but you can still hop in on that at my website, jennyowenyoungs.com, if you would like a physical manifestation of that song and other songs. Hell yeah.
Kristin: Is the song about how one person got on the Gravitron and then another person got on the Gravitron, but then one person threw up on the Gravitron, and because it's a Gravitron, the puke stuck to the wall and the other person?
Jenny: [pauses] Um… no.
Kristin: Cool! Let's get into the episode. [Jenny laughs]
NOTES: [Buffering the Vampire Slayer theme plays]
Jenny: [sings] Hello and welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer! A podcast where we are watching and discussing [makes drum noise] every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, one at a time, spoiler-free! I'm Jenny Owen Youngs!
Kristin: And this is not Once More, With Feeling but I really expect an elevated song for the intro. For that one.
Jenny: Sure. Sure. I'm just workshopping some stuff now. [Kristin laughs] Start early.
Kristin: This is the first feeling. Then we'll do it once more, with feeling.
Jenny: Uh-huh, with additional feeling.
Kristin: I'm Kristin Russo. I feel like you expect me to sing now and I would like—
Jenny: No, no, no, no.
Kristin: To, you know, dash your expectations. Though I'm sure I won't go the whole episode without singing. And this week, we're talking about Season 5, Episode 3, The Replacement. You should stay tuned at the end of this podcast every other week for an original song written by the beautiful songstress, Jenny Owen Youngs, who you just heard up top, recapping the Buffy episode we are discussing. And if you have not yet started listening to our Angel podcast, Angel On Top, hosted by Brittany Ashley and Laura Zak, you should probably—
Jenny: You fools!
Kristin: Do that!
Jenny: Do it please. Meanwhile, The Replacement was written by Jane Espenson and directed by James A. Contner, and originally aired on October 10th in the year 2000.
Kristin: This is the one when a demon creates a Xander double, the real Xander must convince his friends of his true identity. Ba-ba-bum!
Jenny: [singing] Two Xanders, Doublemint Xander, Xander doing stuff!
Kristin: [laughs] Oh my god, someone who has some time, please take the Doublemint commercial and just pop on Xander heads to the twins for us.
Jenny: That'd be nice, that'd be very nice.
Kristin: Please? Thank you.
Jenny: Any of the twins will do.
Kristin: [laughs] Wow. So… I mean, obviously we need to talk about the very fun fact of this episode, which is that Nicholas Brendan has a twin. And that twin is in this episode.
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: His name is Kelly Donovan and…
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: It really made the episode, I'm sure, a lot cheaper to make. [laughs]
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah, right? And probably it helped it look a lot better. Like, imagine with the CGI capabilities they were working with at this time, on the budget for this show. Woulda been pretty rough. I have a feeling this episode would not have come into existence if Nick Brendan didn't happen to have a twin.
Kristin: I actually read up on this episode and I found out that there's another episode in the future where Nicholas Brendan, I guess, got unexpectedly ill, and they used Kelly Donovan for some of the scenes. So we'll talk about that when we get there in 400 years or whenever.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: Yeah! Yeah. So, very convenient to have a twin, I guess.
Jenny: Yeah, sounds convenient.
Kristin: Though I am—I'm just in the middle of reading Tegan and Sara's new book called High School, where they talk about their twindom and many other things. So I am getting to see that there are great things about having a twin and also very, very frustrating things about having a twin. So if you're out there listening, I'm not trying to erase your twin struggles.
Jenny: I think if I had a twin, I would be constantly stressed out about which one of us was the evil one.
Kristin: [laughs] I picture you, if you had a twin, being the kind of person who would just play pranks with your twin all the time. Like, it would just tickle you to no end. You know?
Jenny: Oh, sure. Sure, sure, sure.
Kristin: That you would, you know—I don't know what the prank—
Jenny: We'd be taking each other's math tests and…
Kristin: Exactly. You'd have your twin play a show and then pop out from behind the drum kit. You know, just like… [laughs]
Jenny: Uh-huh. Yes.
Kristin: [laughs] Anyhow. Somebody's cat—
Jenny: Anyhow!
Kristin: Apparently, the Harrises have a cat? And the cat has peed on the hot plate. This doesn't sound like cat behavior. It sounds like a really weird place for a cat to pee.
Jenny: I don't know. You get the right cat—or the wrong cat. [Kristin laughs] And the wrong set of circumstances, who knows where they'll pee?
Kristin: That's true.
Jenny: Although, a hot plate is like, a hard, non-porous surface, and they seem to like to pee on stuff that soaks it up.
Kristin: Exactly. That's what I'm saying. So—
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: I don't think that we ever see that the Harris cat, but…
Jenny: But it's definitely making Xander's living situation less pleasant, as are his warring, alcoholic parents who are…
Kristin: Yeah…
Jenny: Fighting upstairs.
Kristin: So this is, like… I mean, we've been talking—we've been alluding to Xander's home life since Season 1, really, right? 'Cause being spoiler free, we can't say, "well, we know this about Xander's home life." But this is the episode where we get the closest look we've gotten so far into the fact that this isn't just, like, parents who are a bit absent, parents who yell a bit. This is, like—his parents are having a knockdown drunken brawl upstairs. Which is really, you know, it's—they don't really play it for humor. They—it's Buffy, so they go a little bit with the dust falling from the ceiling. But for the most part, this is not played for humor at all. It's really here to let us know that Xander has a lot of stuff happening in his home that's really uncomfortable. And not only do we see the uncomfortability of Xander, you know, with the parents happening, but we see the uncomfortability of all of his friends. We see Riley feeling shifty and not knowing how to handle it. Anya's face is just looking really sad and uncomfortable on behalf of Xander. So there's just a lot happening here.
Jenny: Yeah. There's also some back rubs happening?
Kristin: [giggles] Yes.
Jenny: To varying degrees of success. I guess if your girlfriend recently dislocated her shoulder, probably don't—probably don't rub… that.
Kristin: Right, but Xander's just trying to figure out how to be the guy he wants to be. Which is—
Jenny: I love—I do love the aspect of Xander looking at Riley and being like, "oh. Look what Riley's doing. I should do that."
Kristin: Right? Well, and it's kind of nice, actually. I didn't realize this until you just said that, but the—it is a nice bookend for the episode. Because it's sort of like, we start with Xander being like, "ugh, I just need to be more like Riley and we'll get here." But we end with the episode—we end the episode with Riley being like, "I'm glad—I understand what you mean and all this stuff, but also, my girlfriend doesn't love me."
Jenny: Ahhh!
Kristin: Yeah, didn't think we'd get there within the first few minutes of the podcast, did you? But it is—I think there's an interesting dynamic set up between Xander and Riley, especially in the direction of Xander to Riley in this episode too, that's subtle but there.
Jenny: Yeah. And also we have Buffy being very critical of a kung fu movie?
Kristin: Yes, I love this.
Jenny: Just like, ugh, leave your work at work.
Kristin: This reminded me of you, Jenny. Actually. It reminded me—
Jenny: How… dare you.
Kristin: [laughs] Well, just because like, I remember when I first met you, going to shows and things. And your experience of seeing music—seeing live music or even listening to music on the radio or what have you, is really different than what my experience of music is. And that's because music is something that you love, but it's also something that you do. So I listen to music and I'm just like, la-dee-da-da. This is great or I don't like this, and that's pretty much as complicated as my thoughts get. But for you, there's so many layers. And that's why I love this scene, because I was like, oh my god, this is so true. What we do for work really does permeate how we experience that thing in everyday life.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah, that's true, and apparently the poorly dubbed kung fu movie that they're watching does not pass muster in Buffy's estimation.
Kristin: Right. So, yes. Buffy has a lot of critiques of the kung fu movie.
Jenny: I mean, she's got a point. A flying kick starting from a complete standstill is a curiosity. [Kristin laughs] Is there something at work here, beyond just regular physics?
Kristin: Is this a new segment, Jenny Owen Youngs Wrestling Watch?
Jenny: No, no, no, no, no. Although there is a move later, but we don't need to talk about it. [laughs]
Kristin: Ah-ha! [laughs] So this scene at Xander's basement apartment ends with, you know—basically, it's a conversation where they're trying to distract from the fight that's happening above. Buffy makes a comment about Willow. You know, "Willow can't watch witch movies without whatever." And Xander says, "Who uses a cauldron anymore anyway?"
Jenny: Well! And we've got an answer for you. It's this—this rave demon. This demon that just fucking broke open some glow sticks—
Kristin: Hell yeah.
Jenny: And rubbed them all over his teeth and is like [makes tongue lolling noise]. [Kristin laughs] "Come to my demon rave! We have cauldrons!" And it is with his pain that he purchases the death of the Slayer, or so he thinks! I hope he can get his money back.
Kristin: I was so distracted by his glowing head and teeth, especially his teeth—
Jenny: Sure. The teeth …
Kristin: Right? It's like the opposite of fruit punch mouth. This is like Slimer mouth or—
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: What was that, ectoplasma—Ecto Cooler? Ecto Cooler?
Jenny: Ectoplasm. Ectoplasm. Well, ectoplasm is the real—in quotes—real substance, but Ecto Cooler was the Kool-Aid flavor.
Kristin: Kool-Aid flavor of… for Ghostbusters or whatever. [laughs]
Jenny: Exactly. Ghostbusters juice.
Kristin: Yes. Anyway, wow. What a delightful 80s tangent that was. I wanna say one thing about the demon, Toth. Which is that the demon Toth is played by Michael Bailey Smith, who, among other things, played one of the Freddies in Nightmare on Elm Street 5. Nightmare on Elm Street 5 has a character named Mark who is a comic illustrator and so there's some actually really cool segments in that movie where he draws, you know, his nightmares and the nightmares are kind of done in comic form. And so there's this Super Freddy character, and so Super Freddy is still voiced by Robert Englund, who is Freddy. But the body is—you know, the actual Freddy body is Michael Bailey Smith. So I thought that was fine.
Jenny: Oh, wow! Cool.
Kristin: Yeah. Since I'm a big Nightmare on Elm Street fan and I talk about it on the show a lot, when I was looking through his resume, I was like, holy shit!
Jenny: Ahh!
Kristin: Yeah. Alright. We get to the credits.
Jenny: We come out of the credits and listen. Xander is going apartment hunting in that outfit .
Kristin: Yeah…
Jenny: How? With all of his friends. [Kristin laughs] I mean, I know that he is young. But like… we know, from later, that he has the clothes that make him look less like a clown. They're in his closet, just waiting to be worn.
Kristin: You make a good—this is a good point though. This is a massive point, actually. You might not even have realized you were making it. But I think that… because what I felt watching this episode is that I really did believe that the other Xander was an imposter, because Goofy Xander seems mostly just like regular Xander to me? And that made me—you know, obviously there's the plot device of it all, 'cause we're supposed to believe that. But also I feel like there's a commentary there, that Xander doesn't believe in the parts of himself that are, what I call, Stud Xander. [laughs]
Jenny: Oh, wow.
Kristin: Just so you know, I will be referring to them as Goofy Xander and Stud Xander for the— [inaudible]
Jenny: Okay, I had Sloppy Xander and Confident Xander, but I like yours better.
Kristin: [laughs] Okay, great. So I think that Xander is going to see this apartment, not believing that he could ever leave his basement and get an apartment. I feel like he is not trying because he doesn't believe in himself. So I know you were just making a comment on his outfit, which is ridiculous, but…
Jenny: Oh, no. I think that's a really good point, and I thought a lot while I was watching this episode about when I—like, after college, I moved home for a few months and then moved into an apartment, but it was inconceivable to me that I would be able to move out of my parents' house and get into an apartment and start paying rent. It just seemed unfathomable, but then a situation presented itself, that was hyper-ideal. And I feel like every time I've rented—
Kristin: [laughs] Even now.
Jenny: A new place, gotten a new place—even now, I'm like, wow, real—are you sure?  [Kristin laughs] Are you sure you want to rent it to me?  
Kristin: Yeah. Well, that's what's so powerful about the core of the episode is that we do all—well, maybe not all. But I think most of us have this duality, right? That it's very hard for the majority of humans to see their strengths as clearly as they see their weaknesses. Which is why this actually works, that you're like, but this is just Xander and then who's this other guy? 'Cause we've believed—that's the other deep piece of this, is that I believe what you present to me, right?
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: So that I've been believing—we've all been believing that kind of the max of Xander is what we see. But really, there's been more there. And so it's just to say that we should all be believing in the other half of our Toth-split self, as much as we can. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah. I mean, remember The Zeppo?
Kristin: I do remember The Zeppo. As a matter of fact.
Jenny: It's in there.
Kristin: Yeah, yeah. We've been journeying towards this deeper point of Xander for a while. And it's… Season 5 is a really good Xander season, I think? I'm just gonna say it.
Jenny: I agree.
Kristin: I think that in the beginning, when people were very upset with you and I, Jenny, it's because they had the whole thing. They had this part of Xander and we were going from the beginning forward.
Jenny: Right, right, right.
Kristin: But this is—we're seeing the depths of Xander.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: So, anyhow. Listen, I have a fucking bone to pick. And it's not with Xander, it's with Riley and Buffy who, in this apartment—
Jenny: Dude! What?!
Kristin: What the fuck?
Jenny: They just beeline for the bedroom, which for some unknown reason, already has a bed frame and mattress in it.
Kristin: Yeah!
Jenny: And just like, scoot in there to make out. Like, you guys. You literal—you just came from home. Like, what are you doing?
Kristin: I know, and it also doesn't—so, just in human speak, what the fuck? Like, who would do this, why? But also in the episode, I'm also like, but why? [laughs] I don't really understand why it was there.
Jenny: In an—it seems like it's there for the whole, "save it for the bedroom" and also maybe a little bit for Xander's perception of their relationship. But in an episode that is just jam-packed with slam dunk, laugh out loud stuff, it feels a little like, eh, this is not… [Kristin laughs] I mean, we've got fucking Anya taking two steps into this apartment and being like, "I want it! Pay anything!"
Kristin: [laughing] "Pay anything." Yes.
Jenny: And then the rental agent, like, seeing Riley and being like, surely this is the young man who's looking for a place to live.
Kristin: Yeah…
Jenny: But no, it's unfortunately the guy who's, like, wiping his hand off on his shirt before he shakes yours. [Kristin laughs] [Jenny groans] And then Anya's like, scoping out how it would work for their Scooby meetings and is like, "Giles can explain the boring things over there." Which is also really great.
Kristin: Uh-huh. And then they—well, two things happen. One, Anya and Xander get in this fight. Which is—this is a really important Anya episode too, for many reasons. But the one being that she has just been very traumatically injured in the last episode, and we see her in the beginning of this episode in a sling. And also just—her arm hurts—she says, "My arm hurts, I'm tired and I don't wanna take a tour of beautiful things I cannot have." Right, so there's the Anya that we know, that just loves money and wants nice things. But also this side of Anya that's really facing—and we'll talk about it when we get to the scene—but that's really facing her mortality in ways for the first time. So this fight is kind of informed by that for her as well. The other thing is the ceiling fan that continues to be a point of—which kinda made me laugh in general, knowing that they're on a set that doesn't have a ceiling. That they just keep referring to the ceiling fan over and over again. [Jenny laughs] And just as the actors, that that had to be kind of like, LOL.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: But it is this interesting choice again. 'Cause they are like, "oh, well the ceiling fans are the selling point of this apartment. They kind of remind me of old south." And then Buffy is like, "but without the unpleasant slavery associations." And—
Jenny: Ugh…
Kristin: Yeah… right? It's not an uncommon Buffy-ism or—probably we can expand it outside of that and say, like, 90s-ism—to just tangentially touch on like, "we know that racism exists, bye!" Like, "we know that this is a thing, see you later," like, unpleasant as even a word in proximity to slavery is a real choice. Again, it doesn't have, like, why? Why was this even here? It seems like it's just nodding its head at like, "hey, just so you know, we do know that slavery is a thing and…" What?
Jenny: Yeah, "we'd like awareness points, we'd like to cash in on those, but… not in any kind of meaningful way."
Kristin: Yeah. So I just wanted to at least point that out.
Jenny: Word. Okay, the last thing I want to say about this scene before we move forward is the real estate agent's… haircut.
Kristin: [laughs] That's your compl—
Jenny: And the real estate agent's outfit. And the real estate agent's piercing blue eyes. And… surely t his woman is actually gay. [Kristin laughs] She has… what's the— B.G.R.E.A.E.
Kristin: Oh my god, what ?!
Jenny: Big Gay Real Estate Agent Energy.
Kristin: [burst into laughter] Oh… yeah. I guess you're right. I don't know, you know, what's funny is that I didn't really clock her as anything. Like, I wasn't like, this person is gay or straight. She—I didn't—I felt she was a device.
Jenny: I really just—later, when she hits on Xander, that's when the alarms really start to go off for me. And I'm just like, I don't know why but this is wrong?
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah, well— [laughs]
Jenny: And at that point, it's Stud Xander. So it's not like an issue with him.
Kristin: Yes. Awww.
Jenny: It just seems wro—it just, like, ahh… I mean. Listen. This real estate agent lady, she's got her stuff going on and I celebrate whatever she's into. And I hope that she's just having a good time and she's being safe and stuff. I just… uh, yes. Moving on!
Kristin: Maybe she's just trying to find a hot third for her and her lesbian lover, you know?
Jenny: Oh, possibly. Yes.
Kristin: So… okay.
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: Moving along to the Magic Box. Giles is shuffling about with his box of miscellaneous curses, which he is so amused by. Giles' amusement in the humor of the previous Magic Box owner is one of my favorite tiny little plot things. [both laugh] It's just so great. And so he's rooting around in this big when in blasts Toth. And Giles is like, "perfect, I've got this box of miscellaneous curses." And of course—
Jenny: But unfortunately, when he goes a-digging, he just grabs the rabbit foot.
Kristin: And then Oofda! [sic]
Jenny: And Toth is like, "I heard you were having a rave. Uh, where's the rave? Let me show my teeth. They're ready."
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah, so Giles then scoops up what we found out is Oofda, a god of fertility, who's pretty hefty. [laughs] Pretty—I don't remember what Willow says, but something about the fact that she's got some oomph to her. Oomph for Oofda, and Giles smashes Toth about the head and Toth is just like—
Jenny: To little effect.
Kristin: Yeah, he's just like, "man, you're not even who I want. Keep your Oofda."
Jenny: And then he sweeps out majestically.
Kristin: Yes. And then we cut to the next scene where Giles is so proud of himself, and he's replaying his moves against Toth. Which kills me!
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And which I can only, only say, Jenny, will bring us to our Giles jingle.
Jenny: Sure, of course.
NOTES: [GILES jingle plays] Giles! Hot dad! When you were younger you were real bad But now you're older, you got glasses That help you watch over us! Thank you, Giles!
Jenny: I just wanna say that I accidentally paused on a shot—a close shot of Willow as she's sitting in front of this bookcase and noticed… there's a whole bunch of books on the bookshelf. And it seems as though someone who was in charge of decorating the set this day was just like, "where are all the books on this entire lot?"
Kristin: Oh my god.
Jenny: "I just need books, it doesn't matter what they're called." So some of the books behind Willow, that you can see—one is titled Ballerina. [Kristin laughs] And it looks like a big, sort of like a… airport book for housewives, kind of book?
Kristin: An airport book for housewives? What in the hell—?
Jenny: You know, when you're at the airport—I'm trying to think of, like—Danielle Steel!
Kristin: Oh! [laughs] Like a romance novel?
Jenny: Like mysteries! Like, romance novel or a mystery novel for ladies by a lady. [Kristin laughs] You know? Okay, so there's Ballerina. There's something called The Bedside Playboy.
Kristin: Oh my god!
Jenny: Which, who knows.
Kristin: Wow. Another airport housewife book, if you ask me.
Jenny: Perhaps. And then there's Health and Science. [Kristin laughs] So I just feel like… those are the ones with the spine print large enough that I could actually read it.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: And I'm sure there's a lot of other great titles in there, but those are the only ones I could glean, and I wanted everyone to know.
Kristin: Incredible. Also for the record, you all know how we feel about…
NOTES: [THE PATRIARCHY jingle plays] The patriarchy! [thunder clap, evil laughter]
Kristin: Y'all know how we feel about the patriarchy. So obviously when we talk about airport housewife books, we are talking about the market, not the actual housewife. [laughs]
Jenny: Uh, yes.
Kristin: Just to be clear.
Jenny: Just strictly conference room demographics, pie charts. You get it.
Kristin: Right. You get it. So, okay. First of all, nobody cares about Giles' triumph. I believe that it's Willow who says, "so you're saying it's a mythic triumph over an indifferent foe?" [both laugh] Which I love. These are some great Jane Espenson lines in here, just like, you can just fucking chew on 'em, you know? They're so delicious.
Jenny: Uh-huh, uh-huh, uh-huh.
Kristin: Buffy thinks that "Toth" means that Giles is calling Riley a moron. [laughs] Which is also hilarious. And Riley… aghh—
Jenny: Hey, let me take this one.
Kristin: Oh boy.
Jenny: If I may.
Kristin: Sure.
Jenny: Because Riley says, [macho man voice] "oh, he mentioned Buffy? Where do I find him and how hard can I kill him?" And I say it in that voice because I hate it.
Kristin: Okay, good.
Jenny: It's a very irritating line and delivery. Which I wanted to be the person— because I feel like people think I'm not responsible. I'm responsible! And I can recognize when something sucks. But I wanted to take care of that here so that I could also really take care of it when he's fucking sick Captain A number-one grade-A boyfriend later.
Kristin: Okay, wow. Okay. Well, at least we're in unison here in this moment, 'cause yes, that line annoyed me a bunch. And you know what did not annoy me at all?
Jenny: What's that?
Kristin: It's the way that Giles pronounces "frequent" in this scene. He says—
Jenny: Oh yeah, what did he say?
Kristin: He says, like, "fruh- quent. "
Jenny: Right?
Kristin: [laughing] "Fruh- quent ." I rewound it, like, five times. I was like, what? Fruh- quent?  Who the fuck says—listen, if you're from the fucking UK, please confirm for us that nobody says fruh- quent . I just—I never heard it in my life.
NOTES: [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah, it's… that's—[laughs] that's something.
Kristin: And then Xander makes a great joke. I wrote in all caps for this, actually, where Giles is basically talking about how Toth smells and he says something about "olfactory." [laughing] And Xander's like, "oh, so we have to go to the ol' factory to— just kidding, guys. I know what it means, just being silly Xander." And it really got me, made me laugh.
Jenny: Yeah, no, me too. Me too. So they're off to the dump.
Kristin: The dump, Sunnydale has a dump.
Jenny: The Sunnydale dump.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And guess who else is at the dump? Well, it's Spike, scavenging for a lamp. We're not really sure where—I guess the lamp would be getting power from the same place in his crypt that the television's getting power from.
Kristin: Yes. He probably has a generator. [laughs]
Jenny: I think he's probably just, 'cause he's evil… he probably just found some electricity he could steal and has maybe rigged a—
Kristin: Like, a really long extension cord?
Jenny: A really long extension cord or just kind of like—he has access to subterranean—
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: So it'd probably be pretty easy to tap into a power—I mean, "pretty easy." In quotes. [both laugh]
Kristin: I think, Jenny, that it's sort of along the lines of how we talk about the vampire/demon salon, where they get their nails done and their haircuts and stuff. And also we know that there's Willy's bar, a demon bar. I think that there's probably like a Con Ed—
Jenny: Oh, right. Demonic electrician, sure.
Kristin: Yeah, like a Con Ed for demons, you know, like a subterranean power.
NOTES: [laughs]
Jenny: A hundred percent. So Toth finds them.
Kristin: Toth does find them.
Jenny: In the dump. And I have to say, as really just goofy and stupid as the face makeup and the Dayglow teeth are—
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Whatever they did to capture—I don't know if there's like some slow-mo happening, like, when he sweeps out of the Magic Box and stuff. The way that he sweeps around is very compelling.
Kristin: It's good. Yes, yes. What they lost points for in Dayglow, they gained in—it's sort of like the precursor to the Scream—oh, no. Scream already was around. So it's—it reminds me of the Scream sweep. The Scream monster costume, you know?
Jenny: Oh, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: It's very similar to that. So Toth, as we all know, uses his rod—I think Buffy calls him "rod boy" later.
Jenny: Yep.
Kristin: And blasts Xander instead of Buffy, which was his target. And we think that Xander's okay. They pick Xander up out of the garbage pile, and note—please note for a later segment that Riley, after they lift Xander from the dirt, gently brushes his backside off of all the debris. So tenderly.
Jenny: [laughing] Okay.
Kristin: Before they walk Xander back home. But then, ba-ba-bum!
Jenny: Oh no, there's another Xander, still in the trash heap, unconscious! [Kristin laughs] Uh… whoops!
Kristin: Whoops!
Jenny: How did that get in there?
Kristin: Oh no.
Jenny: We—it's then daytime in the dump and we see this Xander wake up and…
Kristin: Every time I watch this scene, I feel like I can smell it. I don't know what it is about the way that they shot it. I think it's his head resting on the garbage bag.
Jenny: Ugh!
Kristin: It's just like, I feel gross watching it. I'm just like, oh, man. How do you go so far in this episode without taking a shower? If I had an evil double, and I woke up on garbage bags, no matter what was in peril, I would take a fucking shower first. It's too much for me that he's in these clothes now for the—basically the rest of the episode.
Jenny: Oh, yeah, that's a really good point.
Kristin: Right? Fucking Stud Xander immediately takes a shower. [laughs]
Jenny: Sure, sure, sure. Well, he had the benefit of waking up in a bed. But so, Goofy Xander goes back to his place. The door is locked, he's looking in through the window and sees, oh my god, himself!
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: Getting dressed into an outfit that oh my god, doesn't look like [laughing] somebody fucking got a bunch of wrapping paper at a dollar store and then made some, you know, paper doll clothes out of it. [Kristin laughs] With no regard for color schemes or matchy-matchy.
Kristin: Yes. So he is like, what the fuck?! Runs to the phone booth—love a phone booth in a 90s, early-aughts—
Jenny: Trips! Eats it!
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: Eats it on the way there. The phone booth eats his quarter. He's on the line with the operator, just being like, "listen, lady! You don't understand!" [Kristin laughs] And then finally gets a call through to Buffy who picks up and says "hello" but just as that's happened, Stud Xander has walked by. And Goofy Xander is like, fuck! And has to follow him.
Kristin: Yes. Okay, before we go from phone booth to Buffy's room, I wanna say that I saw that there's a Leftover Salmon poster on the outside of the phone booth. So somebody is, like, really digging—
Jenny: Whoa.
Kristin: On this Leftover Salmon band, which is a jam band, and Jenny! Then in the next scene, there's a Widespread Panic poster in Buffy's room on the wall—
Jenny: Oh yeah, of course there is. Well, ugh.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: I really can't picture Buffy listening to Widespread Panic, but—
Kristin: Me neither. Okay.
Jenny: But somebody in set design is definitely into jam bands, and also, maybe they were inspired to include Leftover Salmon paraphernalia in this episode because it's probably what the dump smells like.
Kristin: Oh-ho! Ba-dum-bump-cht.
Jenny: Thank you.
Kristin: Buffy has—listen, Buffy's got a lot of really great quips. I know it's her thing, but when she says she's gonna pack up her weapons from A to Z and then she says "from ax to… ze other ax." I—
Jenny: It's pretty great. Pretty great!
Kristin: It's classic. That's a classic Buffy quip right there. Just unbelievable.
Jenny: Also, I love Dawn making puking noises while Buffy and Riley kiss.
Kristin: Yeah, it's amazing. And this—obviously we're gonna get a lot of Kristin little sister commentary with the now existence of Dawn, but this—so the gagging noises is hysterical. I was never making out with a butterscotch hunk on my bed to the gagging noises of my little sister. But what happens next, where Dawn is like, "I'm not in your room, I'm standing in the hallway" is an actual word-for-word fight that my sister got in so many times. She would stand right at the edge of my door, and I was not allowed to close my door. [laughing] So I would just have to deal with her stupid fucking self standing in my door.
Jenny: Wow. You weren't allowed to close your bedroom door?
Kristin: Listen. Uh, listen. There were a lot of rules in my household and one of them was I was not allowed to close my door. I don't even know why! I don't even know why I wasn't allowed to close my door, but I wasn't. I mean, I was like, 12 or 13 when these fights were happening, my sister was like 6. But still. Why couldn't I close my door, guys? Let's ask Rose Russo next time we talk to her.
Jenny: Sure, sure, sure.
Kristin: So anyway. Joyce is fucking over her two teenage daughters. She is fucking— [laughs] has this great line about how they're finally sharing over who is the cause of her headache.
Jenny: Uh-huh, uh-huh.
Kristin: And then we get a little… sort of this little scene that doesn't really affect us in this episode, which would lead me to believe that we will be seeing more of why we're seeing this scene with Spike in later episodes. Because we go to Spike's lair. And he is—
Jenny: Uhh… I don't like this. I don't like mannequins in general and I don't like wigs, and them together… blegh!
Kristin: [laughs] I like that you don't like it because you don't like mannequins and you don't like wigs. Like, that's your full reason.
Jenny: Well… you know, he's got a lot of pent-up aggression that he takes out on demons. But a lot of his negative energy is directed directly at Buffy.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And he can't fight her, so it kinda makes sense that he would get a little, like, Buffy punching bag.
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah, but it is interesting. It's this side of Spike that—because mostly we know that he wants to kill Buffy. But mostly he's been just like, funny. You know, killing other demons and getting his aggression out through there and then kind of helping them, but kind of not. And so this is an interesting moment where it's like, wow, he went to the dump to literally assemble… a Buffy mannequin, so he could take out the aggression that he's not being able to take out 'cause of his chip. Hmm.
Jenny: [sarcastically] I'm sure that's all it is!
Kristin: I'm sure that's all it is.
Jenny: So!
Kristin: So anyway! [laughs] We go to the construction site and Goofy Xander basically gets there—this is a great, like, beat by beat of Stud Xander deftly just gliding underneath construction materials moving while Goofy Xander gets slammed in the face by the port-a-potty door. Goofy Xander watches Stud Xander get a promotion, and he thinks that it's because of this quarter that Stud Xander has that—and we all do, if we're watching the episode.
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: Like, I definitely, the first time I watched it, was like, oh, this is the wrong Xander and he's hypnotizing people. Obviously.
Jenny: And listen, I just need to say, now and will continue to note it as it occurs, but like… we find out later that it's just a nickel that got flattened on a railroad track and Stud Xander thought it was cool, so he's taking it around with him and flipping it through his fingers or whatever. But, like… it doesn't make any sen—we're clearly supposed to think he's hypnotizing people. And the retcon doesn't make sense because if you were Stud Xander and you were sitting in your boss's construction trailer, you wouldn't be fucking flashing—
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Like, reflecting light directly into his eyes—
Kristin: [simultaneously] In his face.
Jenny: And also, he wouldn't be—that boss would not be not reacting to it. He would be like, "could you fucking stop that? I'm trying to give you a promotion."
Kristin: [laughs] Yes.
Jenny: That's bananas.
NOTES: [Ad music begins] [Ad segment]
Jenny: Support for today's episode comes from Care Of. Fall is a great time to set some new goals, get back into a healthy routine and reprioritize yourself with Care Of. They make it easy to get the right vitamins, supplements and protein powders for your specific needs. Whatever your goals are, Care Of helps you build and stick with a plan that's right for you. Gotta keep your strength up if you wanna keep slaying those vampires. And dealing with your little sister. You're gonna wanna be at the top of your game. All you have to do is a take a short, fun, five-minute quiz and answer easy questions about your diet, lifestyle and health needs. Then you'll get a research-backed recommendation with the vitamins, supplements and/or protein powders you need based on your personalized quiz results. Your Care Of order gets shipped right to your door in convenient daily packs, perfect for a busy on-the-go lifestyle. Throw 'em in your bag, take 'em to the cemetery, and you can modify your subscription at any time. Care Of uses only the highest quality products and they make it easy to see where they source their ingredients from. Vegan and vegetarian supplement options are also available. I've been using Care Of for a while now, and my number one favorite thing about it is that it's so convenient. My second favorite thing is the fun, fun facts on the little vitamin packets. I also have been using a plant-based protein powder that they make recently, and it's delicious. For 50% off your first Care Of order, go to takecareof.com and enter "buffering50." That's takecareof.com and code "buffering50" for 50% off your first Care Of order.
Kristin: Today's episode is brought to you by Pretty Litter. Pretty Litter makes life as a cat owner easier. A bag of Pretty Litter weighs up to 80% less than most other litter and lasts an entire month. Unlike conventional litter, Pretty Litter's super absorbent crystals trap and eliminate moisture. No smell, no mess. That means if Toth splits your cat into two cats, your house will still not smell! That's how powerful Pretty Litter is. It also does a ton for your cat's health. Pretty Litter changes color to detect underlying illnesses before urgent medical care is needed, saving you money, stress, and potentially your cat's life. Unlike other conventional litters that contain ingredients and additives that may be damaging to your cat's health, Pretty Litter is created from naturally-occurring minerals. It's safe for your cat and it's virtually dust-free. I have two cats. They are actually two cats, not one cat split into two, and we love using Pretty Litter. Biggest on my list is the convenience. I love not having to think about it, I love that Pretty Litter just arrives at my doorstep when I need it. It is great if you have a hectic and busy life, which so many of us do. If you'd like to make the switch to Pretty Litter, visit prettylitter.com and use promo code "buffy" for 20% off your first order. That's prettylitter.com, promo code "buffy."
Jenny: Today's episode is brought to you by Hello Fresh. With Hello Fresh, America's #1 meal kit, you'll get easy, seasonal recipes and pre-measured ingredients delivered right to your door. All you have to do is cook and enjoy. Hello Fresh makes cooking delicious meals at home a reality, regardless of your comfort in the kitchen. From step-by-step recipes to pre-measured ingredients, Hello Fresh gives you everything you need to get a wow-worthy dinner on the table in just about 30 minutes. So you can finally say goodbye to endless grocery store trips and takeout food. Hello Fresh offers something for everyone, from family recipes to calorie-smart and vegetarian, and fun menu series like Hall of Fame and Craft Burgers. And it's so flexible. Easily change your delivery days, your food preferences, skip a week whenever you need. Or add extra meals to your weekly order, as well as yummy add-ons like garlic bread—yeah, great for keeping vampires away—and cookie dough—great for eating cookie dough. I love Hello Fresh. When it comes to the kitchen, I'm kind of a Goofy Xander. And even I can cook a delicious meal using their easy to follow recipes. For $80 off your first month of Hello Fresh, go to hellofresh.com/buffering80 and enter code "buffering80." That's like receiving eight meals free—what?!—when you go to hellofresh.com/buffering80 and enter code "buffering80."
NOTES: [Ad music stops] [Episode resumes]
Kristin: Stud Xander is like, I know exactly how I'm gonna celebrate with Anya. I'm gonna get myself this fucking apartment. So we go back to the apartment where he's like, "I would like to have this apartment." And the real estate agent is very surprised to see him, did not think he was gonna be coming back. He makes what is one of many Star Trek jokes in this episode. He says to her, "It's time to move on or buy yourself a Klingon costume." Basically sort of saying that people who live in their parents' basements are also Star Trek fans? An interesting line from Xander. It's sort of like his—you know how we have internalized homophobia? It's kinda like he has internalized Trekkie-phobia. You know?
Jenny: Oh, yes?
Kristin: 'Cause he's like, he is a Star Trek fan and he's judging Star Trek fans. So…
Jenny: Sure, yeah. Well, that half of him is, anyway.
Kristin: Oh, right! That's true. True!
Jenny: I also love when the real estate agent is calling him Mr. Harris and Sloppy Xander is outside, and he does this very Jim Carrey-esque, like, " Mr. Harris? Y  eah, right!" Which is so great.
Kristin: [laughs] Wow, Jenny as fucking Pet Detective is a new thing that I'm into.
Jenny: [laughing] Okay, okay, okay.
Kristin: Okay, so this fucking real estate agent, I cannot—this is the most caps I have in all of my notes for this episode.
Jenny: Okay, okay, okay.
Kristin: Because no one has ever come on to a human being so strongly.
Jenny: Horrifying.
Kristin: I challenge you—
Jenny: Madam. You're embarrassing us all.
Kristin: I am humiliated for her. She says, "day or night." She says, "this is my home number." She says, "even for non-business stuff." She says, "we can do something " [both laugh] and then she says, just in case you haven't gotten that she would like to take her business skirt off for you, "remember, I said anytime." And I'm like, lady!
Jenny: Uhh… uhh, yeah. And then she leaves and we see that her belt goes from, I don't know, her neck down to her knees, or something. [Kristin laughs] She's wearing the widest, tallest belt that anyone's ever seen. And Stud Xander calls up Anya.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: And we see Anya's beautiful apartment. For the first time.
Kristin: We also see Anya's beautiful silk nightgown.
Jenny: Yeah, incredible.
Kristin: Just gorgeous. As a matter of fact—you know what?
Jenny: [simultaneously] So we can tell that her severance package from D'Hoffryn is pretty tight. 'Cause she's clearly living well.
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah, it's a gorgeous—and you sort of made mention to the fact that we might see Anya's beautiful apartment. Well, here it is, and it's gorgeous. I actually—I thought there were a lot of places that I might bring Kate Leth in to talk to us about fashion. And I didn't think it was gonna be Anya's silk nightgown. But fuck it, Jenny. Let us talk to Kate Leth, 'cause I wanna know what she thinks of this silk nightgown and any other fashion that we see in this episode.
Jenny: Please!
NOTES: [Jenny singing Fashion Watch intro theme] It's time for our friend Kate To give you the Buffy fashion update!
Kate: Welcome back to Buffy Fashion Watch. We meet here in the unlikeliest of places. With two Xanders to an episode, I'm forced, finally, to talk about his fashion. Although, yes, I will point out that nothing we see in these 44 minutes of TV compares to Anya's pink lace-trimmed silk pajama set, with her matching hair scarf. I had forgotten about it until Kristin texted me, and it was like fondly remembering a lost love. Anya is so p  erfect. But I can't put off talking about Xander forever. Fashion is actually an incredibly important element of The Replacement. So much of how we differentiate between Weak Xander and Strong Xander is in their clothing and presentation. Weak Xander wears his typical short-sleeved Guy Fieri shirt open over a long-sleeve or a Henley, with ill-fitting pants and sneakers. Then we have Strong Xander, his opposite, supposedly smooth and seductive, who wears a collared shirt and a blazer. With ill-fitting pants. Here's the thing, I know it's hard for guys and nonbinary folks and masc-presenting
people to shop, let alone find a distinctive style. Lots of elements make it harder: body image, gender issues, income, level of ability, and I'm super sympathetic to that. I am plus-size and so I do a lot of my shopping online because stores don't cater to me. But that can be tricky, especially if you don't know your sizes or what looks or feels right on your body. But there are some simple and fairly universal rules or guidelines that you can think about if you're looking to spiff up your wardrobe. And this goes for you too, Strong Xander. Now, a button-up and khakis can be a great, simple, professional outfit, but I'd say 90% of what makes men's fashion work is fit. Not that you need to be fit, that the clothes need to fit you . Strong Xander's khakis might fit at the waist, but they're baggy through the hips and the legs. It was the style in the 90s, but still, not so great. A lot of people lean toward this because looser clothing makes them feel more comfortable and hey, if that works for you, you do you. But figuring out what flatters your body can go a long way to making you feel more confident. Now, that can mean whatever you want it to mean. It can be a tapered leg, which is more forgiving than skinny jeans, or just a really nice pair of straight-legged jeans. And nice doesn't have to mean expensive. But if you are going to shell out for fashion, I always recommend putting your money in the things you wear most and that take the most wear and tear, like shoes, jacket, pants. When it does come to shirts, I always recommend starting with something simple, like instead of wearing graphic tees all the time, invest in some decent plain shirts. Doesn't mean they have to be boring. They can be patterned, they can be neutral, whatever makes you feel good. That little step can really elevate your wardrobe, more than people expect. When it comes to nicer shirts, button-ups look good on basically everyone, but you have to get the right one. And they have their own problems. Xander's wearing a style, like his pants, that was big in the 90s, which is very baggy through the torso and arms. And a lot of people nowadays feel like they have to buy quote-on-quote "fitted" shirts to be stylish, but unless you're on the thinner side, you're just gonna end up sad in the changing room. Especially if you're binding, because they're built for small frames. Regular or wide cuts might actually be what you need. If you're not sure, take all of them into the changing room, bring a friend you trust, and keep the receipts. I could keep going on quite literally forever about this, but you have more episode to listen to. If you are interested in more fashion tips, send the Buffering high priestesses a message. I'm sure it will find its way to me. Until then, I'll see you at the mall. Or on the internet, because "oh, sorry, we don't carry extended sizes, but you can shop online!" Ughh. Whatever.
NOTES: [Jenny singing Fashion Watch outro theme] That was our friend Kate She gave you the Buffy fashion update!
Kristin: Oh, Kate! Thank you again for yet another stunning installment of Buffy Fashion Watch. How delightful. I'm pretty sure that the next time we hear from Kate, it's gonna be in episode 5, which you know, if you know the series… some stuff happens in that episode. So I'm gonna be excited to hear from her in that one.
Jenny: Okay, so. Sloppy Xander jumps Confident Xander. Confident Xander—
Kristin: Wow, just changing their names? It's Goofy and Stud. Goofy and Stud, Stud and Goofy.
Jenny: Goofy Xander jumps Stud Xander and Stud Xander throws him off immediately and runs.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: We get some really nice Santa Barbara b-roll. It's raining.
Kristin: [laughs] And it's raining! Which is novel, you know? When do we get rain in California? Not often.
Jenny: Uhh, I think places other than Los Angeles get it a fair amount more.
Kristin: Oh, in Santa Barbara? They get more rain in Santa Barbara than Los Angeles?
Jenny: I think Santa Barbara does get more rain than LA.
Kristin: Interesting. I'm sure we'll get some emails to let us.
Jenny: [laughs] I'm sure.
Kristin: Or! Some voicemails. Love the voicemails that are coming in, everyone.
Jenny: Oh yeah!
Kristin: Okay, so… yes. Basically Stud Xander gets to Giles' house and Goofy Xander is outside the window. Reminiscent of that time that Spike was peering at Thanksgiving through the window of Giles'—you know?
Jenny: Oh, yep. Yep, yep, yep.
Kristin: Goofy Xander is like, "oh no!" and he sees Stud Xander saying, like, "There's another Xander out there and you've gotta kill him." So Goofy Xander runs, of course, to Willow's. Where he's like, "I know how to convince you that it's still me." And this is cute for two—both stories are cute. There's three, I think, but one of them I guess wasn't cute enough to make my notes. [laughs] The first one is this—them as seven-year-olds. So fucking Xander's like, "I wanted this firetruck and I didn't get it, and then there was a fire and I saw the firetrucks come and I thought you called the firetrucks for me because I didn't get my firetruck." That's so sweet!
Jenny: Mmm!
Kristin: It's really cute.
Jenny: That is very sweet.
Kristin: And then the other thing is that he's like, "And I do the Snoopy dance every Christmas for you." And we've actually heard of this before because in the episode, Jenny, Passion … [both laugh] we learned that Xander does the Snoopy dance for Willow on Christmas.
Jenny: Hell. Yes. And he does a great—Nick Brendan does an incredible job with the Snoopy dance here.
Kristin: Yeah. He does.
Jenny: It looks so good.
Kristin: It is very, very good.
Jenny: And then he's just kind of like, explaining the whole—once Willow's like, "why wouldn't I think you're you?" he kind of lets her in on what's been going on. And he's got a double and somebody stole my face and he's hypnotizing people with his shiny, shiny quarter.
Kristin: Mm-hmm. There's a back and forth basically between them where we see one convincing the Scoobies over at Giles' and one, you know, convincing Willow. And I would love to—if I can have your permission, Jenny, to play a little sound clip here. Because I love the line that we get from Xander over at Willow's house when they're talking about what it possibly could be.
NOTES: [Clip from episode begins]
Xander: It's a robot! It's an evil robot constructed from evil parts that look like me, designed to do evil!
Willow: Uh-huh. Or it's Toth.
Xander: Or! It's Toth.
Jenny: Yeah, it seems like everybody figures out that it's Toth, in one way or another, at the same time.
Kristin: Yes. Yes, it's Toth. And then the scene with Willow and Goofy Xander gets pretty… deep? Dark? Whatever you wanna call it.
Jenny: Yeah…
Kristin: Right? Because you see him getting really angry. He's, like—you know, Willow is talking about, like, maybe there's a spell. And he's just like, "right, whatever." You know, "I never help, Buffy saves me." [starts laughing] Willow tries to help, doesn't do a great job. [both laugh] She's like, "That's not true, sometimes we all help to save you, Xander!"
Jenny: Sure, sure, sure, sure.
Kristin: But yeah, then he's just like, "I'm just another great humiliation. Everyone's treating him like a grownup, this other Xander. He's smarter than me. Maybe I should just let him have my life." And that's like… especially because we started this episode off seeing Xander's violent home life.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Him saying "I'm just another great humiliation" is really sad and really gives us insight into what's been going on inside of Xander for a long time.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah, this really sucks, until! Xander remembers that he has a reason for being!
Kristin: [sighs] Which is Anya!
Jenny: Joie de vivre, if you will!
Kristin: [high-pitched] I know! It's very nice.
Jenny: Oh my god. He loves Anya and he wants to be alive and with Anya and everything is cool.
Kristin: Yeah. Willow says, like, "You're telling me you just thought of Anya now?" and I actually take issue with that analysis. I—this actually reminded me of a moment I had in my life, where I was at San Francisco Pride and there was a shooting. It was—you know, it was just a person shooting another person. It was not like a mass shooting, but there was a gun that went off very, very close to where I was. It was really terrifying, and it was at Pride, so there was so many people. And everyone sort of ran and scattered. And I was in a booth working with Everyone Is Gay, my organization that I had at the time. And I sort of dropped to the floor, and I always imagined myself in a moment of panic and a moment where things were at risk, calling the people that I loved or trying to get a message out to the people that I loved. And I remember just, like… after it was all over, realizing I hadn't called anyone. I hadn't even thought of anyone. Jenny, you and I were together at the time and I was like, didn't think—I literally was just like, survive. Survive, survive, survive, stay alive, by any cost. And so, you know, not to make this too serious but I do wanna say that, like, I don't think that you—no matter how much you love somebody, I don't think that you think of them when you feel your life is at stake. So I don't think it's an indication of the fact that Xander does or doesn't love Anya enough that it took him awhile to get there.
Jenny: I take more issue with the fact that when Xander says, "He can't have Anya, I need h  er!" when Willow says, "...really?"
Kristin: Yeah…
Jenny: How dare you? You've got two eyes, Willow!
Kristin: [laughs] True.
Jenny: Anya rocks.
Kristin: True. Then we get this very brief but delightful reference to Doppelgangland where Xander, on his way out, is like, "You try having an evil twin and see how you handle it!" And he leaves and Willow's like, "I think I handled it just fine." [laughs]
Jenny: "Yeah, I just stood really still while she licked my neck, et cetera. [Kristin laughs] Maybe you should try it, Xander."
Kristin: "I realized I was gay." [laughs]
Jenny: [laughing] Uh-huh.
Kristin: Okay. So… let's see what happens next.
Jenny: So Goofy Xander goes to Anya's place, looking for her, and in finding the place empty, decides to dig around for something else that he knows she has somewhere in her home.
Kristin: Yeah, which—I mean, we might as well just say what the fuck it is, since we know now.
Jenny: It's a gun!
Kristin: [simultaneously] It's a gun! We never—you know if you know us here at Buffering the Vampire Slayer, we do not like when guns enter the universe of Buffy the Vampire Slayer. It feels wrong. We do not enjoy. So I don't—I mean, I'm down with the fact that Anya has a gun in her house. Like, that is an interesting character development point. But I don't like that it's used in the episode, I don't like—I don't like it!
Jenny: Yeah. Same.
Kristin: So the apartment picnic commences. And this is where we get what I already referenced. You know, Anya's just like—[starts laughing] she says, "I'm dying." [both laugh]
Jenny: "I could have as few as 50 years left."
Kristin: [laughs] And you know, they have this exchange and she's kind of like, "what's next? I want a boat or a child, a puppy, I don't know, I have a list somewhere," she says. And something that I love about their exchange here is that, first of all, this is the side of Xander that can really be present with Anya and really—he's really helping her. He's really attuned to what's going on, and he helps her see what she's facing, which is really nice. And they have this exchange where Anya is sort of like, "but I'm gonna get old and wrinkly and you can't promise me that you'll still be here." And instead of—'cause I remember watching this for the first time for the podcast, and I was—I expected Xander to be like, "I can promise you." You know, like, "I do promise you." And he doesn't. He says, "you know, I can't promise you that, you're right. But it doesn't sound terrible, and that's something." And I just thought—
Jenny: Mm-hmm!
Kristin: Right? What a beautiful, beautiful way of expressing love and commitment and—it just was so nice. It was not full of anything Hallmark-y or grandiose, it was just like, no, we're here right now and this is how I feel right now. And I think that that's powerful. Like, fuck yeah!
Jenny: Yeah, and it's just the kind of thing you wanna hear right before your boyfriend's sloppy twin bursts in through the door [Kristin laughs] and is like, "ba-ha!"
Kristin: [laughs] Yes. So, right. In comes Goofy Xander, where the "G" now stands for "gun." And he kind of goes in and he—before we see that he has a gun, he's like, "Anya, don't believe him. He's not the real me." And what's very interesting is that Anya, in this first moment, goes to Stud Xander. Like, believes—which I thought was also an interesting—not to keep bringing it to the deep stuff. But I was just really looking at this episode, like, what does it say that Anya, the person who loves Xander the most, actually believes more in the confidence of Xander? Like, Xander's strongest points is where she—her gut gravitates toward first. I was just like—
Jenny: A hundred percent.
Kristin: Right? That's pretty fucking cool.
Jenny: Yeah. It's so nice.
Kristin: Yeah. So. Willow gets into Giles' house because Giles swears he keeps locking the door, but never does. And… [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah. And she's like, "Listen. You had the wrong Xander, I had the right Xander. I know it's him 'cause he did the Snoopy dance." And they're like, "okay." While they're hashing it out and trying to come up with different possibilities of what might be going on, Giles is "oh dear lord"ing in the background, but everyone's ignoring him.
Kristin: [laughing] "I said 'oh dear lord.'"
Jenny: "You always say that!"
Kristin: [laughing] To his point, he says, "but it's always important."
Jenny: Which is true! Why isn't everyone just listening to him? He's the..grownup.
Kristin: So… this is where they learn and we learn that Toth actually splits people into two beings where both are still that person. One is the weaker qualities and one is the stronger qualities. He wanted to split Buffy in half because if he killed the weaker Buffy, the stronger Buffy would die too.
Jenny: You know what's interesting? We never find out— [laughs] I'm pretty sure. We never find out anything else about Toth or if Toth hired someone or why Toth wanted the Slayer dead.
Kristin: [laughs] True.
Jenny: He's just a plot device for Xander and Anya to grow.
Kristin: Yes. Yeah. Well, yeah. Well, I'm here for it. He also glows, don't forget.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah, the teeth. It's a whole thing.
Kristin: Right. So then—
Jenny: So, right. Right after we learn that if one of the twins dies, the other also dies, we go back to the new apartment and Sloppy Xander pulls a gun.
Kristin: And Anya, being a fucking badass, just like, runs over and points the gun up. And I'm—the whole time, in this scene and in the scenes to follow, like, guys, you just moved in. You're gonna get kicked out of this apartment building. This is too much noise, I don't know.
Jenny: Right? Too much noise, too much carpet damage.
Kristin: Yeah. And so then, we get this scene—I'm sorry to say so many things remind me of you, Jenny, but this— [laughs] this scene where Riley and Buffy are driving. And this reminded me of you driving. Riley driving is, I think, akin to Jenny driving. Because they're in a rush, right? And Buffy's like, "you're not going fast enough." And Riley, instead of like, "I'm going 90" is like [laughing] "I'm pushing 70."
Jenny: Safety first! You can't save Xander from himself if you get in a car wreck because you weren't driving safely.
Kristin: [laughing] True, I just thought it was really hysterical that him going 68 miles an hour is him, like, rushing to save the day.
Jenny: He's a good boy, as is evidenced in the lines that follow!
Kristin: Yes, tell us, Jenny, 'cause this is what you were wanting to get to.
Jenny: Wow! Buffy has convinced herself that surely Riley wishes that she had gotten split in two with the Toth rod, so that he could be with—how would this even work? If she had, like, two halves of her were existing separately. But basically, she's just like, "you wish you could have a normal girlfriend."
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: And Riley is like, "if you led a perfectly normal life, you wouldn't be who you are. I gotta have that, I gotta have it all! I'm talking toes, elbows, the whole bad ice skating movie obsession. Everything."
Kristin: Ugh, yes.
Jenny: "There's no part of you I'm not in love with." Ahh!
Kristin: Yeah. No, this is good. This is nice.
Jenny: And then Buffy's like, "god, I hope we get there in time."
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah. No, I will give Riley—listen. We don't—no spoilers here. But I'm just gonna say that I will have more to say about this—because I do think that this is really nice. I do think that Riley loves Buffy for who she is, I think this is really genuine. I think that he does want the Slayer part of her and the non-Slayer part of her. He probably loves—what is the name of the—I can't think of the name of the movie that I immediately thought of, but it's the one where she always says "toe pick!"
Jenny: Toe pick? Oh, yeah—
Kristin: That's gonna drive—everybody's gonna be screaming in their cars, listening to this part of the podcast. [both laugh] Telling me what the name of the movie is. So I'm just gonna let you keep screaming, I'm not even gonna look it up. But I'm here with you as well. I think this is very nice, I think that this is—I wish Riley was driving faster, but I'm glad that he is telling Buffy directly that he loves her for who she is. 'Cause it is something that she really does need to hear, because it's rough to be… her. So, great. A point for Riley. "If Xander kills himself, he's dead!" says Buffy. [laughs]
Jenny: Oh, god.
Kristin: Sorry, just another little Jane Espenson, you know? Then we go back to the apartment, the gun fight is underway. And Buffy, you know, steps in and is like, "everybody fucking stop." And this is a great shift because now that everyone knows what the deal is, she's sort of treats both Xanders like they're her little brothers.
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: You know? She takes the gun—
Jenny: It look—you think she's breaking the fight up in a really hefty way when she throws one of them across the room, but then she just throws the other one who was also right there into the same spot across the room.
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah. Stud Xander has a great gun emptying moment, where even Buffy is like, "oh! 'Scuse me."
Jenny: Well, yeah, because remember when he was—when he got turned into a soldier for Halloween?
Kristin: Yeah. Halloween! It's supposed to be a scary night but it only was a—other night! Halloween!
Jenny: Uhh, uhh, ma'am?
Kristin: Sorry.
Jenny: This is an Arby's.
Kristin: [laughs] Ohh, so. They're both Xander. And Goofy Xander's like, "he can't be me, he's all fancy." And Buffy's like, "I'll prove it to you. What number am I thinking of?" And both of these dummies are like, "Eleven and a half."
Jenny: Yeah, what a couple of dum-dums. [both laugh] I love it.
Kristin: It's great. It's really great. And then, what's really sweet too is Buffy's trying to explain to them the way that the characteristics are divided. But she doesn't wanna hurt Goofy Xander's feelings—
Jenny: Aw. Aww!
Kristin: So she's like, "you know, it's like, sense of direction—"
Jenny: "Sense of direction." [both laugh]
Kristin: And then in busts Toth, really fucking up the door. Thank god Xander's in construction, he'll be able to fix this. But Toth blows in, this is where Buffy calls him "rod boy." Buffy—
Jenny: Ugh! He shoots a hole in the carpet—
Kristin: Oof.
Jenny: That Buffy is doing a somersault, like, next to?
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: It's… peculiar.
Kristin: It is, it reminds me of the kung fu movie we saw a little earlier. [laughs]
Jenny: Right. And one of the Xanders is like, "hey, I just made a small cleaning deposit!"
Kristin: Yeah. [laughs] Then she sort of, like, "Scalpel!" to Riley, except demands her sword. Riley gives her the sword, and they kill Toth on the floor of the apartment. A mess, a mess for the first day of living in this apartment.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Just a mess.
Jenny: Oh, also there's like a WWE move that happens in this fight sequence… that I don't know the name of, but basically it's—and it's not just WWE, but it's like, a wrestle-y move. Where he—Toth picks up Buffy, kind of like a sack of flour. Like, his… he's holding her horizontal, parallel to the floor, and his arms are kind of wrapped around, through her legs on one side and her shoulders on the other. And then he kinda whaps her back down on the ground, I believe.
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: Just—I just—when I see them, I wanna call them out, even if I don't know everything about them, sorry, I don't know everything.
Kristin: I hope that you do. This is what I'm saying. At the beginning of the episode, I said, I think it might be the dawn of a new segment.
Jenny: Well…
Kristin: Wrestling with Jenny. I'll make you a jingle. It'll go—
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: [singing] "Wrestling with Jenny! Oomph!"
Jenny: That's—
Kristin: That's the noise of the wrestler, like, hitting…
Jenny: Yeah, no, no, no, I got that, I got that.
Kristin: Okay, good.
Jenny: Very kind of… it really takes you there.
Kristin: Thank you. I'm a natural talent. Okay, so— [laughs]
Jenny: [laughing] As it's often been said. By you.
Kristin: So we go to the Magic Box. And in this scene, I said to myself, where's Tara?
Jenny: Yeah, where is Tara?
Kristin: Right? So—
Jenny: A wi—a sleep-away witch camp.
Kristin: Oh my god. Yes. Canon. Tara is at sleep-away witch camp.
Jenny: Okay, cool.
Kristin: So, Riley makes this comment—so both Xanders are at the Magic Box and Willow's gonna put them back together. Which is a very easy spell to do, as she explains, because all she has to do is break the spell that's already holding them separate from each other. Riley makes a comment about wanting to lock them in separate rooms and do experiments on them, to the record scratch of everyone else. [laughs] He's like—ooh. Rough subject? Okay, moving on.
Jenny: Right, but hey, that doesn't hang in the air very long. [Kristin laughs] Because we're on to talking about, uh, the Xanders being identical and they know for sure 'cause they checked out some stuff in the car on the way over.
Kristin: Goofy Xander's like, "uh, finger prints! It was our finger prints." Uh… huh?
Jenny: [makes stammering sound] Yeah, yeah, yeah. And Anya's like, "what if instead of putting them back together… today … [Kristin laughs] what if I take them home, we could all have sex together, and then slap 'em back together in the morning."
Kristin: Oh my god! And fucking Giles—there's a great—
Jenny: [laughs] Poor Giles! Ugh!
Kristin: Oh, Giles is like, "okay, so we're gonna do the spell and we're all going to continue to pretend that Anya didn't say that thing about sex." And Willow, just picking up that great joke and making it into a home run, says, "Okay, candles and pretense." [laughs]
Jenny: "Check."
Kristin: She is… it's just—I love them. I love them, I love their jokes.
Jenny: It is good.
Kristin: Before we put this—we should do the Sexual Tension Awards before we put the Xanders back together, in honor of Anya.
Jenny: Sure, sure, sure.
NOTES: [SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays] Sexual tension award!
Jenny : The Sexual Tension Award nominees for Season 5, Episode 3, The Replacement, are as follows.
Kristin: [makes drum roll sound]
Jenny: Real Estate Lady and Stud Xander. Nice.
Kristin: I mean, obviously. She worked really hard for that award. [laughs]
Jenny: She sure did.
Kristin: You know, we gotta at least give her the nomination.
Jenny: For that gentle brushing-off of his backside…
Kristin: Yeah!
Jenny: Let's consider—consider if you will, Xander and Riley.
Kristin: I will!
Jenny: For that point of comparison in the backseat of somebody's car, let's also consider Xander and Xander.
Kristin: I mean—
Jenny: Which sounds kind of like an insurance company or something.
Kristin: [laughs] Xander and Xander. Xander and Xander and sons. I just wanna say, that I lobbied for this entry because I felt, you know, we've done a lot of nominating of couples, we've done a lot of nominating of throuples. And I'm not sure that we've ever nominated a single, you know? Like, this is just—
Jenny: Are you sure we didn't nominate Willow and Vampire Willow?
Kristin: Ohh! True. You're right. Okay, so—
Jenny: But honestly, I think it's a good precedent to set and to stick to.
Kristin: Yeah. Yes.
Jenny: And our fourth nominee…
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Who you will vote for if you care about me or what is right.
Kristin: Yeah, same.
Jenny: Two Xanders, one Anya.
Kristin: Obviously!
Jenny: Ugh!
Kristin: I mean, I don't wanna throw the vote, but, you know. C'mon, guys.
Jenny: I love attempting to throw the vote. It never really seems to work, but if you wanna participate in our beautiful democracy, you can find the Twitter poll @bufferingcast. We run it for a week, right, Kristin?
Kristin: That's right.
Jenny: So get your vote in there. Hurry up, scoot, run along.
Kristin: Yep, scurry over there.
NOTES: [SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays] Sexual tension award!
Kristin: Okay! What a beautiful segment, full of sex and tension!
Jenny: Great.
Kristin: Right before we unite the two Xanders, we get yet another reference to Star Trek. This is a reference to, Jenny, Season 3, Episode 14, Whom Gods Destroy.
Jenny: Oh!
Kristin: Yeah, I did a little research, it's not a big deal.
Jenny: Goodness.
Kristin: Where there are two Kirks! Because one of the Kirks is real Kirk and one of them is this other guy who pretends to be Kirk and can—whatever. You know, you get it.
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: Yeah, and so I think—listen, all the Star Trek fans are gonna be after me now, because I've literally never seen an episode, I'm probably gonna fuck this up. But basically, one of the Kirks is like, "kill us both." And that's how Spock knows who the real Kirk is, and he kills the other Kirk. Um, the end.
Jenny: Interesting.
Kristin: I don't know. I just found it fun. I was like, look at me, researching Klingons and Star Trek. It's all happening to me, guys!
Jenny: Oh, no, no, no. I love that for you. [laughs]
Kristin: I learned, Jenny, that Klingon is its own language, which I kind of knew.
Jenny: Ohh, yep.
Kristin: But I didn't really know, and that this dude who's, like, a linguist, his name's Marc Okrand, he is the one who made the language?
Jenny: Ohh.
Kristin: Just like, crazy shit over here!
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Anyway. Giles is—in response to this line, is like, "he's clearly a bad influence on himself." [both laugh] And then they unite—
Jenny: True, true.
Kristin: They unite the Xanders. Anya liked it the other way, of course she did.
Jenny: Of course she did.
Kristin: She was like, "this is a solution, I don't have to put any more Craigslist ads up for threesomes. I have a permanent threesome right here." [both laugh]
Jenny: Okay, so. Scooting to everybody helping Xander move out of the basement. Yay, we're so excited! He brings over a box to Anya, and she's like, "presents, for me?" And he's like, "uh, not unless you want my Babylon commemorative plates… [both laugh] Which you cannot have!"
Kristin: [simultaneously] "Which you can't have!" [both laugh]
Jenny: I love that! But he gets Anya to help, which is not… you know, not her first nature, I guess.
Kristin: [laughing] She says—I'm sorry, I don't mean to quote the whole episode back to you all. But she says, "Buffy has super strength. Why don't we load her up like one of those little horses?" Which… really got me. It really got me, Jenny.
Jenny: Yeah, well, I mean, it is a practical theory. A practical idea. Okay. So the last thing that happens in this episode, oh my god!
Kristin: [laughs] Yes?
Jenny: It's just Xander and Riley, just two guys in a basement, talking about girls. You know how it is.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And Xander's like, "oh god, how is it possible that I always feel like such a fucking dork around Anya?" And Riley's like, "no, dude, what you guys have is real and she's totally into all of you and it's so dope, congratulations." And then! Riley's like—
NOTES: [Clip from episode plays]
Riley: When I'm with her, it's like… it's like I'm split in two. Half of me is just on fire, going crazy if I'm not touching her. The other half… is so still and peaceful. Just perfectly content. Just knows… this is the one. [pause] But she doesn't love me.
Jenny: "But she doesn't love me!"
Kristin: Ugh. You know, y'all know how I feel about Riley, but this is, um, gutting? And beautiful. I love what he says about how he feels when he is falling in love, as a person in love. It's—that fire and stillness in equal measure, just really, really beautiful and really devastating that he says this. And I've seen this episode a few times now, but I remember watching it for the first time and being stunned. Like, I—
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: It's not something that I don't think many or most of us or any of us saw coming. Because it just seemed like if anyone was struggling, maybe it was Riley. I would have never, ever, ever, ever thought that he was feeling like Buffy didn't love him. So, yeah. It's a real way to end an episode.
Jenny: Also, just zooming out for one second, it's like, I know you're dudes, but like… you're gonna have that conversation with one of Buffy's two best friends?
Kristin: Yeah. Well—
Jenny: It seems like—I mean, I know he's probably feeling like a bit of an island now, and Xander is the closest thing to the same as Riley in the gang, at this point. But it is still just like, whoa.
Kristin: Yeah. But it reads to me—I mean, it reads to me because I do think that Riley—right, like what you said. Riley is an island, he really doesn't have anybody. What is he gonna do, call up Graham? Like, he doesn't have anybody to talk to. And also, I think that in moments where you're really going through something— reaching out to someone who you trust who's also close to that other person can sometimes be really comforting. And I think that he knows that Xander is really pretty loyal, at this point. You know, I mean, Xander has not historically been the best person to hold information about Buffy's significant others, but— [laughs]
Jenny: No.
Kristin: Yeah, but at this point, I think that he has a correct read on Xander, that Xander will sort of listen to him and help him in any way that he can. So… yeah. It's nice. It's also nice to have two dudes talking to each other about their feelings, eh?
Jenny: Yeah. Isn't there, like, a test…? [both laugh] Just kidding. Well! That's this episode.
Kristin: What a beautiful place to end this episode! I think this was a fun episode. This is a good one. Two Xanders, no waiting.
Jenny: I like episodes where we get to see more of Xander—like, more than just, you know, his sort of like forward-facing—the way that he's performing Xander, essentially.
Kristin: Yes, yes. And I think that this will inform the way that we view Xander for the balance of the series. So…
Jenny: Mm-hmm.
Kristin: We will take it. We will take it, and when we begin our second podcast, Once More, With Feeling, where we watch the series all over again—[Jenny laughs] with spoilers! JK. Or am I? We'll see. We'll, you know, use this to inform—because I actually am—I was thinking, Jenny, about watching the series again. Because, as you all know, at this point, this is only my second time through the series, though what a deep and intense second time through it is. And I've never had the—I was thinking about, like, oh my god, this is—sometimes I forget that this was a series that you would just watch, all the time, over and over again. Like, it was so important to you—
Jenny: Oh yeah.
Kristin: Well before this podcast. And I've never had that experience. I watched it one time and I loved it, but I realized in watching today, I was like, oh my god, I can go back and watch this again! I can go—I can do it again and again and again. So I'm becoming one of you all [Jenny laughs] through this work. And I'm just— yeah, I'm excited to watch it through the lens of really understanding the characters much deeper now.
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: [British accent] That concludes my monologue. Please— [both laugh] [normal voice] Please tell the lovely people where they can find you, Jenny.
Jenny: Weeelllll, I am Jenny Owen Youngs and when I'm not making this podcast, I'm out there, writing and recording songs, making music of all kinds. You can learn more about me and the music stuff that I make at jennyowenyoungs.com. And you can find three new songs that I've put out in the last three months on Spotify, Apple Music, wherever you get jams. Those songs are called Vampire Weeknight, Living Room and Dreaming on the Bus. Uh, chronologically. You can also give me a shout on Twitter @JennyOwenYoungs and I'll tell you what else. You can hear me talk about a different show about a tiny blond protagonist girl. Uh, who's in high school at the moment—on my other podcast, Veronica Mars Investigations.
Kristin: Yes! I was just lost in thought, thinking about the chronology of those songs. Like, Vampire Weeknight, the vampire goes and breaks into your Living Room, and—
Jenny: Sure.
Kristin: Turns you into a vampire and you get on the bus and then you're Dreaming on the Bus as a vampire. So.
Jenny: Sure, sure, sure! Do vampires dream of undead sheep?
Kristin: [laughs] I'm Kristin Russo and you can find, you know more about me— because when I'm not talking about Buffy the Vampire Slayer, I am doing work with LGBTQ communities and the communities that support LGBTQ communities. You can learn about the most recent project that I just completed, an e-care package for parents and loved ones of trans and nonbinary youth over on MyKidIsGay.com. I'm really proud of all the work that went into it by an incredible team of people. There's a freaking playlist that Laura Jane Grace made for us. There's a lot of things, but I'm just kind of excited about the fact that Laura Jane Grace collaborated with us on that project, especially. And if you want to hear more of me in your ears, I am also doing another podcast now with the incredible Joanna Robinson. We are going through each and every one of the 19 delicious episodes of My So-Called Life. The podcast is called The Boiler Room and we are over halfway—no, we're almost halfway through, at this point. So come on over and join us. We're having a great time. We do a segment called The Best Use of Flannel, and I think it's pretty great. [laughs]
Jenny: Ha! Hell yeah. Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram @BufferingCast. Or you can always send us an email at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin: Or you can call us! [Jenny gasps] At 216-30-BUFFY and leave us a message. [singsong] Hell yeah!
Jenny: Incredible.
Kristin: You can support our work, so many of you, thank you, thank you, thank you. You can go on over to bufferingthevampireslayer.com, click on Patreon to join our Patreon family. We have a secret Facebook group, we do Buffy Watches, we have chord sheets from Jenny so you can learn the music—
Jenny: Hell yeah.
Kristin: We have ad-free episodes, we have so much fun shit over there. Even exclusive merchandise.
Jenny: We got it all!
Kristin: We got it all, so you can support us over there. You can support us by rating and reviewing us on iTunes. You can also go to our store and buy some new shit! Namely—
Jenny: Swag it up!
Kristin: A brand-new fucking t-shirt designed by the one and only Devan Power. That is— [Jenny makes a chainsaw noise] uh-huh. It's a reimagining of the Just Keep Fighting shirt, a lyric from the end of Season 1, Prophecy Girl, which has a lot of meaning to us… all? I think? And it is a gorgeous, gorgeous, gorgeous drawing. It's sort of, like, woodcut-inspired, a Slayer walking away with a stake in her hand. It's really beautiful, we're very thankful to Devan for it. And you can find that on the website, just click on Store.
Jenny: Hell. Yeah! And till next time…
Jenny and Kristin: Awwwwooooooo!
Jenny: [singing and dragging out the note] Wooooo, yeah!
Kristin: Wow, show-off. [Jenny performing "The Replacement" off the album Songs from Season 5 by Buffering the Vampire Slayer] I know that I love you, just don’t know how I got a lot of things to figure out Xander took a hit, coulda had me split Could have been me, could have been happy If I could split myself in two Half of me could do slayer stuff And the other half could stay right here with you But you know it’s true I wouldn’t change it if I could Being half of me would only be half as good Imagine our life in some normal town Where the only big bad is my little sister instead of a Hellmouth Wouldn’t have to fight our way home when you’d take me out Could have been me, could have been happy If I could split myself in two Half of me could do Buffy stuff And the other half would slay the whole night through But I know it’s true You wouldn’t change it if you could Having half of me would only be half as good On the other hand Half of Xander ain’t half bad But the other half could use a bath And all together he’s the best friend you could have