Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 1.12: Prophecy Girl
Jenny: Hey everybody, before we get started, we have some stuff to tell you. Because we reached the end of Season 1, we are now prepared to release into the wilderness the collection, the complete collection, of Songs from Season 1, songs one through twelve, and we’re going to be releasing those digitally within a couple weeks time. So definitely stay tuned on Twitter and Facebook, where we’ll be announcing everything as it ready to be announced. And you can follow us on either of those platforms at bufferingcast.
Kristin: Also, we are doing a limited run of physical CDs of the collection of twelve songs from Season 1. So, we’re going to put those up, they are up right now in our store. They’re pre-orders, we expect to see those in the next couple of weeks, and start sending them out. We want to let you know that when you go to the store, it’s just bit.ly/shopbuffering , or you can go to bufferingthevampireslayer.com and click on shop. Those are preorders, they’ll only be up until December 18th, because that is when we have our live show in New York, and so we’re going to bring the balance of the physical copies, the ones we have not sold on pre-order, to that show. So, they may come back online after that, but they may not. It depends on how many we sell, so we just want to let you know, if you want a physical copy, go grab it now before the 18th of December.
Jenny: Mm-hm. Ok, and without further ado, let’s get into it.
NOTES: [Intro music]
Jenny: Hello and welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast where we’re watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, one at a time. I am Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: And I’m Kristin Russo, and this week, we are discussing Season 1, Episode 12, the finale of Season 1, "Prophecy Girl."
Jenny: Ahhhhhhhhhhh! Stay tuned at the end of this episode and every episode for an original recap song written by us.
Kristin: So you know what this episode is about, if you did not do a rewatch or a first watch before listening to us, this is the episode where "Giles discovers an ancient book, foretelling of Buffy’s death at the hands of the Master." I kind of take issue with this summary description that I copied and pasted–
Jenny: Did Giles find it?
Kristin: And also, he doesn’t discover it in this episode.
Jenny: Yes. Huff and puff.
Kristin: Yeah, huff and puff, writer of the IMDB summary.
Jenny: Speaking of writers, this episode was written and directed by Joss Whedon! Hurray!
Kristin: Yes, and how!
Jenny: And it was originally aired on June 2nd, 1997. So, there is a lot to say.
Kristin: Yeah, there is so much to say. I feel so many feelings. I want to say that, like, I’ve enjoyed season one. As you know, if you are a listener of the show, this is my first time through season one, though I have seen episodes– or seasons two through seven. And I– because I know these characters, I really enjoyed it– I really enjoyed every episode that we’ve watched. But when I watched this episode, I was like, "Oh yeah, I forgot how–"
Jenny: How much better it’s going to get?
Kristin: Yeah! I mean, of course, on some level, I didn’t forget, because here I am, co-hosting a podcast about the show, I do know that it’s wonderful, but I really forgot how much I will sob from now until the end of the series, with just the power of the characters, and the– I mean, the writing in this episode, the direction in this episode– Joss Joss Joss Joss. But like, it’s just gorgeous and heart wrenching and we are going to get into all of that. Although my first note is– This is going to be after yours, so we can talk about whatever you’d like, Jenny, but my first pen-to-paper moment was Cordelia’s parking job in the cemetery.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: But before we get there, we obviously, like, we start in the Bronze.
Jenny: We start in the Bronze! Where Xander– ugh, poor Willow. Xander is practicing how he’s going to ask out Buffy on Willow, who is in love with Xander. It’s a deep burn.
Kristin: Yeah, it’s sad. And this, like– maybe we can just talk about this whole little tinier arc in the episode, right, because it’s sort of like, Xander really wants to tell Buffy that he has feelings for her, Willow has feelings for Xander, it’s a whole love triangle thing. And I don’t know, I feel like obviously this is a sad moment for Willow because she’s just longing for Xander to be saying these words to her–
Jenny: [wistful] Yeah!
Kristin: So it’s really sad, and then, you know, but then we see later in the episode, Xander does tell Buffy how he feels and asks her if she feels the same way, and she does not. So that’s a big blow to Xander, Xander’s really bummed out. I also kind of like, just a shout-out to how this moment was handled between two friends? Because, as somebody who gives advice for a living, I often get the question, "I’m in love with my best friend, what do I do?" And I feel like Buffy and Xander in this moment like, do what most people do, across the span of like, two years, in like, one minute.
Jenny: Yeah, they do a really great job until Xander gets unnecessarily mean? I understand, but it’s like–
Kristin: Yeah, I don’t know– But Xander’s also really self-aware in that moment, which is why I hesitate–
Jenny: Right, but maybe if he could’ve thought of a different thing to say other than, "I guess a guy’s got to be undead to make time with you." Maybe if he had even just said something other than "make time".
Kristin: Fine, but– You just don’t like "make time"?
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah, I think that’s my problem.
Kristin: Ok. Because I feel like that’s a common human thing, I mean, certainly, we even do that to each other when we’re having a, what do you call it? Marital dispute? There’s a word for–
Jenny: I’ve never even heard of one of those, that doesn’t sound like a thing. Who’ve you been having marital disputes with? Certainly not me.
Kristin: But you instinctively go for the gut. That’s just what - I’m not saying it’s right or correct, or that I approve of such behaviour…
Jenny: When you’re wounded you lash out. I get it.
Kristin: You lash out. And Xander lashes out. He says this shitty thing and then he immediately - the next thing he says is, I’m sorry, I’m not good at dealing with rejection. So I feel, like…
Jenny: Very self aware.
Kristin: Very self aware moment. And then, just to follow this arc through, Willow goes in to see Xander. A little - I almost said goose egg.
NOTES: [much laughter from both]
Jenny: A little goose egg…
Kristin: A little goose egg!
Jenny: Hidden in the grass. Please, tell us about the goose egg.
Kristin: A little [emphatically] Easter egg in the scene between Willow and Xander is that there’s a poster hanging up in the classroom that says "Just Say No", which is very funny because Buffy has said no, and then right after that now, Willow says no.
Jenny: Also, I mean, gosh. All of the self-awareness in these teens; it’s pretty impressive. Way to go, Willow. Not just taking that soft pitch, you know.
Kristin: No, and Willow is very - they all have very deep moments in this. Willow is very strong in this episode. I mean, that’s one of the first examples of it, when she’s, like, you know what, Xander? I don’t know what would have possibly made you think that I would want to go to the dance when the whole time you’re going to want to be there with Buffy. Strong, powerful woman. Right before that happens she runs into Cordelia in the hallway. Cordelia says "I love that outfit", and Willow, without missing a beat, says "No you don’t." Right?
Jenny: And also, to her credit, Cordelia’s like…
Kristin: You’re right.
Jenny: You’re right, I don’t. But I need a favour.
Kristin: Yeah, it’s a great moment because it’s a strong moment for Willow. You know, Cordelia and Willow have a relationship now.
Jenny: Yeah, we like to see them together. They’re a great pairing.
Kristin: Absolutely.
Jenny: Oh my god, what if they accidentally kiss?
Kristin: Oh, I have - yeah, we’ll get to the sexual tension. I don’t think they had any in this particular episode. But I do want to talk about Cordelia in the graveyard. ‘Cause we cut, we cut from the Bronze to - you know, they’re like, wonder what Buffy’s doing? The usual. And then it cuts…
Jenny: It’s just the most beautiful scene - the most beautiful shooting we’ve seen in the show up to this point, this slow motion fight scene.
Kristin: Yeah, and this slow motion fall - the scene starts with her falling.
Jenny: And the close-ups on the vampire’s eyes, and Buffy like smiling after she pulls the stake out, and the vampire recognises it and she smiles.
Kristin: That smile.
Jenny: So small.
Kristin: That alone - Joss’s direction - I would give many awards for that moment alone. Of how this is framed, with that fucking smile that she gives to that vamp. But we see, right after she falls, we cut to a car. Someone has gone parking, is that what…
Jenny: Cordelia necks in the graveyard! Cordelia goes to the cemetery [pause] to make time.
Kristin: [laughs] To make time!
Jenny: See how gross it is?
Kristin: Yeah well, I didn’t think we were saying ‘make time’, like, ‘make out’. But ok. But we are now.
Jenny: Hahahaaa!
Kristin: But my real laugh in this moment is that - we’ve had a lot of discussions about Cordelia’s driving and we’ll have more before this episode is over - but I love that she’s just in between the gravestones. She’s not parked at the side of the road in the graveyard. She’s parked on the grass! So I liked that a lot. And then back to this gorgeous fight scene, because it cuts from this amazing fight scene to this beautiful over-the-library shot, which is…
Jenny: Oh yeah, the first bird’s eye view we’ve seen of the library.
Kristin: Yeah, through the glass, which is really really awesome, and we see Giles.
Jenny: He’s been studying.
Kristin: And he’s just translating this piece of the Codex that - what did I say I was going to call it? The Pegasus Codex?
Jenny: [laughing] Yes.
Kristin: He’s translating a piece of the Pegasus Codex, and we don’t learn in this moment what it says, but we do learn that it is…
Jenny: Very disturbing for Giles.
Kristin: Real fucked up.
Jenny: Giles is, like, that doesn’t look like anything to me.
Kristin: [laughs]. Yeah! That’s Jenny’s West World reference.
Jenny: It’s my new favourite show. Whenever anything is really disturbing and you are looking at it, you must say "It doesn’t look like anything to me." Shout out to Molly Green who made that joke first.
Kristin: Who is Jenny’s friend.
Jenny: Yeaaahhhh.
Kristin: Everybody’s like, who? So, and then the earthquake happens.
Jenny: It does, and it made me remember that we live in southern California now. And we haven’t felt any earthquakes.
Kristin: Oh, why do you have to…
Jenny: What? Noooooo!
Kristin: Here’s the thing. Two nights ago, [Jenny cackles gleefully] it was really fucking windy and we were in bed trying to go to sleep and we couldn’t fall asleep because it sounded like ghosts and goblins were…
Jenny: It was so loud.
Kristin: Banging around outside. And Jenny turns to me in bed and says "Well, at least we know it’s just the wind"
Jenny: [much laughter]. It’s just, if I’m going to get murdered by something that’s supernatural, or a serial killer or something, I want to have a craven-worthy last words.
Kristin: Come on! And this is just in line with that: "hey, we haven’t felt an earthquake yet…" Thanks a lot, Jenny.
Jenny: Yeah, sorry, I said that. But I have a question related to this scene. There is a beautiful piece of art hanging over Giles’s desk…
Kristin: Oh, I didn’t notice that.
Jenny: And it is a lake at night, or a pond at night, and the moon is out and it’s reflected in the water and it’s very beautiful. I think, from what I could tell. And I was just wondering if anybody - if any of you nerds; I know one of you must - know what that piece of art is?
Kristin: Oh, let us know.
Jenny: Help me out.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Shoot us an email at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com - I’m desperate to know what it is!
Kristin: Speaking of nerds, I do have one more thing I want to talk about with the earthquake, but in one of our first moments post credits, we get a
great line from Willow: "It’s the computer age. Nerds are in." Pretty solid.
Jenny: Then immediately, "They’re still in, right?"
Kristin: Yeah. I’m still cool, right? But also just back to the earthquake for a hot second, while the earthquake is happening first of all we cannot miss the fact that there is this organ music playing as we like pan down.
Jenny: Oh my god!
Kristin: to the master who’s like mahahahaha, it’s like the most-Jenny: Sooooooon, Sooooooon
Kristin: [laughing] it’s so silly, and then like he-Jenny: Yeah, that music cue is out to lunch
Kristin: It is, and he kind of laughs at himself, like he almost has a self-aware moment in this. There’s-- I wish I knew more like I get a real worked up about when we talk about Wes Craven and horror and stuff like this but I don’t know a lot about old vampire movies.
Jenny: Ahhh
Kristin: But I feel-- So I might be wrong but the little bit that I know, the little bit I’ve seen I feel like there were references to that. There were these moments like this moment with the organ and just these kind of over the top moments that made me feel like they were very intentional and they were harkening back to something else.
Jenny: Right, right, right.
Kristin: I don’t know, so again let us know if Kristin is very wrong with her headline reading of an old vampire film. And also the master then says "do you think it was a 5.1?"
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: And let me tell you what, I don’t chhh-Jenny: Yeah just the anointed one with the miniature drum kit in the corner.
Jenny and Kristin: [laughing]
Kristin: I just feel like I don’t know a lot about earthquakes but I think that if the floor of the library cracks in half it’s probably bigger than a 5.1. Just my two cents.
Jenny: Well, but like do you think any buildings that aren’t located directly on top of the Hellmouth experienced that level of damage?
Kristin: Oh that’s true, okay.
Jenny: That might be playing into it.
Kristin: That’s true, you’re right, okay.
Jenny: So when Buffy comes into the library the next morning, her first comment is "the damage looks fairly structural"
Kristin: Yeah....
Jenny: What a weird thing to say! That’s all
Kristin: Yeah, it was kinda weird, it was kinda weird. You know this is one of many moments in this episode where we’re seeing the mundane if you will experience of like being at school and doing the things we’re supposed to do in our life like making sure you run those errands set right next to this apocalyptic situation and that is shown here in the fact that Giles knows what’s up now.
Jenny: Mm-hm
Kristin: Giles has read the prophecy that Buffy’s gonna fight the master and that she’s going to die. And Buffy has just been having a blast killing vamps all night is on her way to biology and is like what’s your deal man? Something that I wanna-- we talked about the Xander arc and y’know Buffy and feelings and all this stuff.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: So I don’t wanna go too much more into that but I do wanna say that I appreciated Xander’s line cuz Xander’s approach to this moment where he tells Buffy about his feelings for her is very-- I just really wanna
work to give Xander credit where credit is due and Joss-Jenny: [high pitched/excited] He says I wanna dance with you
Kristin: Yes, he says I want-Jenny: Aughhh, [low pitched/disappointed] he says I wanna dance with you
Kristin: [laughs] He says I wanna dance with you.
Jenny: It’s very sweet.
Kristin: It is very sweet and y’know, and Joss wrote this and Joss directed it so I do feel that that is sort of a reflection of some of the feminist Joss that we know. To put that in as the line.
Jenny: Also, I just wanna say while Xander’s like workin’ on it he’s like huffing and puffing and drumming on his bag. That’s just like what I do.
Kristin: Yeah, that is very-Jenny: When I need to get to a point
Kristin: When you’re nervous [laughs]
Jenny: So I appreciated that.
Kristin: So y’know then Buffy leaves, goes to biology etcetera but Giles is left in-- oh, Jenny yes, Jenny has wide eyes.
Jenny: Well, Giles is left with the-Kristin: Oh, are you going to take my moment from me? We have the same note?
Jenny: Well let’s find out, you go first since you did the transition
Kristin: Well, so Giles is left in the office, now at the same time let’s say our notes. Okay, I’m going to count down from three. Three, two, one.
Jenny: How does he get Angel’s phone number?
Kristin: Yes! The phone number, how did he get the phone number?
Jenny: How? How!
Kristin: How did-Jenny: Their late night meetings… [high pitched] He gave him his number!
Kristin: Y’know ‘cause last week we talked about sexual tension and it seems like there was a bit of a number exchange.
Jenny: Yeah, there probably must have definitely been a total number exchange.
Kristin: Yeah, seems they made time for each other.
Jenny: Also, he’s so flustered on the phone. Not just because of the prophecy I think.
Kristin: You didn’t even hear my joke.
Jenny: What did you say?
Kristin: I said it seemed they made time for each other.
Jenny: [laughs] Thanks, that was, that felt bespoke
Kristin: Yeah, so somehow... first of all somehow they have each other’s phone numbers and also Angel has a phone which I’m curious about how that works, like is there identity theft for vampires? When they need like y’know to pay bills?
Jenny: Utilities.
Kristin: Yeah, he can’t just be like Angeleous, like on his...
Jenny: Yeah, he probably just has a fake...
Kristin: A fake name?
Jenny: Yeah, and a fake social. I don’t know.
Kristin: I mean I guess he’s been around long enough to know the system. He was around when they invented social security numbers so he probably just...
Jenny: Right, right, right.
Kristin: Figured it out. And then of course who’s in the doorway?
Jenny: Hellllooooo Ms. Calendar
Kristin: That’s exactly what I wrote.
Jenny: That’s exactly what I wrote too.
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: Hellllooooo Ms. Calendar.
Kristin: I wrote Hello Jenny Calendar.
Jenny: Well, she’s been surfing the net.
Kristin: [laughs] She has.
Jenny: She has been surfing the net and she has a lot to report. A snake, a cat is given birth to a litter of snakes.
Kristin: Yep, and there’s a lake that’s boiling
Jenny: Oooooh
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Yeah, a child was born with their eyes facing inwards.
Kristin: Facing inwards, that’s a rough one.
Jenny: Ugh! gross!
Kristin: Also she ends the list of things that has happened with I would say the end is pretty seriously nigh.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Which is a very...
Jenny: And then she like rides her skateboard off.
Kristin: It was very-- she sounded like Buffy in the movie Buffy the Vampire…
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: like it was very Buffy the Vampire Slayer movie line and delivery. "I would say the end is pretty seriously nigh"
Jenny: Mm-hm
Kristin: Yes you would Jenny Calendar.
Jenny: Yeah, she’s still hot.
Kristin: Yep, still looking great.
Jenny: Still a practicing techno pagan getting a lot of information from monks across the world.
Kristin: Yeah, what is this guy’s name, Luca? That’s sending out, what does she call them "global messages"
Jenny: Yes. [laughs] Global messages.
Kristin: Global messages, I mean...
Jenny: Is that like an email?
Kristin: Yeah, I- yes. It’s a message that she can send globally all at once.
Jenny: Oh dear. Oh bother.
Kristin: [laughs] So after this scene where y’know we later learn that who Giles has called is Angel to come please meet him they have to talk and hang out… exchange numbers. We cut to this scene that is again like this really spooky dark scene. Buffy is like getting her stake out of her locker.
Jenny: As you do.
Kristin: Sun has gone down, she goes-- you really think, I mean I thought. Even you thought having seen this episode before we were like this is a dream right? It has a very dream-like quality to it.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: Especially when she then turns the faucet on and there’s just blood pouring out of it.
Jenny: Mm-hm!
Kristin: And we go-- we cut to the li-- or she goes to the library to be like "Giles, you’re not gonna believe, the fucking sink is coming out blood!" and instead of course she comes upon Angel and Giles. Well, she comes upon Angel which is...
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah. And she’s like [gasps] Angel?
Kristin: She says Angel right?
Jenny: Yeah, she’s so pumped ‘cause she hasn’t seen him since she burned a cross shape into his chest while they were kissing at the end of season one episode seven, Angel.
Kristin: Wow, Jenny with the references over there.
Jenny: Not that I’ve been paying attention.
Kristin: But this scene, I have it blocked ‘cause we-- there’s a commercial break in between this scene right, we hear what happens, we hear Giles say to Angel "and she will die"
Jenny: Mm-hm.
Kristin: He reads the end of the prophecy from this codex and then had you been watching in 1997 you were like what the fuck! And it cuts to commercial break and you have to watch...
Jenny: Yeah… Bah na na buy toilet paper
Kristin: Glad, glad glad. What is it? Hefty, hefty, hefty. Oh my god I just inserted glad, the wrong brand into the song. [laughs]
Jenny: It’s really good.
Kristin: Sorry Hefty! Oh no, maybe it is for Glad? Glad trash bags. What are the-- what is the brand is it Hefty?
Jenny: I thought it was Hefty.
Kristin: No, cause’ it’s "Hefty, hefty, hefty, wimpy, wimpy, wimpy"
Jenny: Yeah, Hefty is the brand and then everything else is wimpy.
Kristin: Okay.
Jenny: I’m glad we’re having this talk.
Kristin: Yeah, I mean you gotta know. When you gotta know you gotta know. Anyhow you had to watch all these fucking stupid ass commercials, no offence commercials, but like ugh! And we come back and the balance of this scene is...
Jenny: Ooph, devastating.
Kristin: I mean the balance of this scene is why we’re doing this podcast, right?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Like it is the heart of this show, this is-- I mean we see her go through everything and that’s something that I noticed a lot in this episode is that he fits in like Joss fits in so much shit in the tiniest amounts of time in a very believable and powerful way.
Jenny: Mm-hm.
Kristin: Like several times I was like I can’t believe that we’re still only halfway through this, like we’ve learned so much already, we’ve felt so much already. And this scene is an example of that. We come right back on her laughing which is like, to me was like a gutting first response.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And very like, I believed it one million percent like she has just found out something that she doesn’t know how to deal with and she is like laughing in this horribly sad, upsetting way. And then she goes through right, like I got chills just from the laugh and then she says things like y’know "does it say how I’m gonna die? Will it hurt? Who will she be this next slayer?"
Jenny: Mm-hm.
Kristin: "Will you train her? Don’t touch me!" She says to Angel and then eventually gets herself to "I quit, I’m not doing this-- I quit" She rips her necklace off. The necklace that Angel has given her and she has this line where she just looks at Giles and says "Giles I’m 16 years old, I don’t wanna die" and it’s like that all happened in 35 fucking seconds. It has gotten so real.
Jenny: Mm-hm.
Kristin: And we - Jenny and I usually write the song after we record the podcast, but we have already written the song and this idea was the central piece of the song that we wrote.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: This journey that Buffy goes on that starts right now, where she’s, like, wait, what? She’s been in danger; she’s faced death, she’s been afraid. But this is so much more real than anything has ever been, and it’s devastating.
Jenny: Yeah. It’s a common thing to think about - people say that when you’re young you think you’re invincible, and for Buffy it’s exponentially exaggerated because she has super strength and really fast healing abilities and all of this mystical power that she’s imbued with. And now she’s just heard, after she’s faced death a bajillion times - she literally fights dead people every day - and she just heard for the first time the possibility that she might actually die. In the very near future.
Kristin: And she - the way that she talks about it - ‘cause really one of the first responses is this "Who’s she gonna be?". Who’s this next person gonna be? It’s like, for the first time - she says, "I know how this works; I remember how this works. I know, I die and then the next one comes right on in." And it’s like she’s realizing for the first time and feeling, like, I’m just disposable. All this work I’m doing; all this fight that I’ve given, and this is where it ends for me? And then somebody else just comes and picks up the stake and onward they go? Yeah, it’s just a beautiful scene, and it’s devastating from all angles. I mean, talk about a trio of people to be facing this truth for the first time. It’s Giles, who we’ve seen standing at her grave in - in Nightmares, right?
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: Where we had that horrible heart wrenching scene where he was like "This is my nightmare. I didn’t protect her." So we know what he’s feeling. And then we have Angel, who we know is in love with Buffy and it’s just so sad. And then, of course, we go to Buffy, who is looking through photos.
Jenny: Wow. For those of you who don’t know, can’t even fathom why there’s a book full of photographs in somebody’s home [Kristin laughs], let me just explain really quickly that a long, long time ago…
Kristin: [singing] A long, long time ago…
Jenny: We didn’t use to have phones that took pictures and computers to back them up. We would take pictures with cameras and then we would take the film to a film developing place, and then we would wait multiple days for the pictures to be developed! Then we would pick them up. Then we would paste them into a book like that and then later, when we found out we were about to die via prophecy, we’d nostalgically flip through.
Kristin: Flip through. Yes.
Jenny: And relive our past joys.
Kristin: Yes. So this is an accurate, authentic scene. Also, we would usually get photos printed in doubles, just in case…
Jenny: Yeah, yeah. To share with your friends.
Kristin: I would always get doubles just because. I wanted to fuck round with one set and have the other set for safekeeping.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: I always got doubles.
Jenny: What kind of photo manipulation were you doing in high school?
Kristin: No, not fuck around in a manipulatory way.
Jenny: No, like in a…
Kristin: You like manipulatory?
Jenny: Yeah, that’s really something. Were you drawing on them, or like, making cards out of them?
Kristin: No, like, pasting them in books, or making photo books like Buffy has, or giving them to friends, or cutting them out and making collage type things.
Jenny: Right! Right, right.
Kristin: You know, what you do. What you do with physical photos. But anyhow.
Jenny: Joyce comes in.
Kristin: Joyce comes in. Joyce has this great line "you’re probably full from that bite of dinner you nearly had"
Jenny: Pretty good.
Kristin: Pretty good and again just this one sentence lets us know that
like-Jenny: What’s going on.
Kristin: I mean we already know that Buffy is distraught but y’know this is one quick sentence that kind of like inserts that into this scene.
Jenny: Now, Buffy has a great idea where she’s like "let’s just get out of town."
Kristin: I knowww.
Jenny: Let me avoid this prophecy mom! Safest person, safest place on the planet to me historically and now and always. Take me away and protect me and get me the fuck out of here.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And Joyce is like "oh honey, you know the gallery is open on weekends" Let me just say something really quick...
Kristin: Yes, Jenny?
Jenny: We haven’t seen this gallery and I don’t wanna spoil anything for anybody but we’re never gonna see the gallery. So I have a theory I’d like to put on the table. What if running parallel...
Kristin: Oh brother.
Jenny: To the regular vampire slayer lineage vibe there’s also an adult vampire slayer league and Joyce...
Kristin: Vampire League by the way
Jenny: Yeah. Is actually out slaying-- wouldn’t this be a cool crossover potential thing for down the line. They like run into each other in a graveyard where they think-- Buffy thinks her mom’s at the gallery and Joyce thinks Buffy is at a study date with Willow and they bump into each other in the cemetery and they both have stakes out and they both try to hide them behind their back-- doesn’t this sound so fun?
Kristin: It’s great, yeah no it’s good Jenny run with it. You have a money-maker on your hands.
Jenny: Yeah, If I wrote fanfiction I feel like I would be off to the races.
Kristin: Yeah, it’s like Freaky Friday meets Buffy the Vampire Slayer.
Jenny: Yes, yes.
Kristin: But I do believe that Joyce actually just works at an art gallery
Jenny: Maybe.
Kristin: Maybe, maybe. Okay fine maybe. But right, and she of course doesn’t know what’s at stake here ha ha.
Jenny: Ha, ba-dum shish.
Kristin: Where’s the anointed one to give me my drum fell?
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: So, yeah but then she has purchased this dress for Buffy that she saw Buffy eyeing. Which y’know is a-- I was gonna just go down the it’s this really beautiful moment path but I do wanna just say it is a weird thing to give somebody a dress to a dance that’s the next day. You know what I mean, the timing of it seems weird. It seems like you would give-- if you wanted to give a person a dress for a dance you would find out if they were going...
Jenny: Yeah, yeah. Work with a little more lead time.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Joyce is an impulsive lady though, you know she just rides the wind wherever it takes her.
Kristin: [sighs] That’s true. So this is when Buffy sees this dress and of course they have this exchange where-- and it’s this really sweet exchange between them too which I feel like is coming from the fact that Buffy knows-- you’re gonna interact with your loved ones very differently...
Jenny: If you know you’re gonna die.
Kristin: If you know you’re gonna die! And so Joyce telling her this story about how she went to the prom by herself and Buffy says "Well, was it horrible?" and Joyce is like "Yeah, it was horrible for the first hour and then I met your dad" And they have this very open beautiful exchange which we don’t-- we haven’t really seen that many of these, if any between Joyce and Buffy ‘cause Buffy’s 16.
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: You know, and then of course we go right to the school where Cordelia is like "My boyfriend is so cute, I don’t even care that he didn’t set up the equipment, Willow ha! Isn’t love so crazy?" and they do have this really great moment where Cordelia’s like "Men! Am I right?"
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: And Willow’s like "Sure?" [laughs] It’s really nice. It’s really nice for a lot of reasons.
Jenny: Willow’s like affirming backup-- I’m backing you up nod is so good.
Kristin: Right? But then we go right from our laughter into another one of these scenes that is just-- no joke, no pun intended but very gutting. This scene is just like...
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: You know, they-- she opens the door, Cordelia opens the door and what’s this guy’s name? It’s not Mitch.
Jenny: Kevin!
Kristin: It’s Kevin, [laughs] we moved on from Mitch to Kevin since the last episode and this scene is dark.
Jenny: Whoooph! It’s rough.
Kristin: It’s really dark, I mean there are what, six, seven kids in there?
Jenny: A bunch of kids in there.
Kristin: All who have been killed by vamps and...
Jenny: The thing that really, I feel like hits it home is the bloody handprint on the tv screen while porky pig is dancing with porky pig. It’s rough.
Kristin: Yeah, it’s pretty...
Jenny: It’s a difficult juxtaposition.
Kristin: It’s pretty dark and one of the little factoids that we stumbled upon actually had this note that Alyson Hannigan had said they had filmed the scene in two different ways.
Jenny: Yeah, a bloodier version for European audiences.
Kristin: For the UK [laughs] Who could apparently stomach more gore than Americans. But I’ll tell you what, you didn’t even need more gore than just that handprint on the television for it to be really disturbing.
Jenny: Yeah, it’s icy.
Kristin: And it’s quiet, and Willow is… you can see that she’s in shock and then we go to-- back to Joyce and Buffy. And Joyce has sort of run up the stairs. This is-- do we even know that it’s upstairs? I knew it from watching other episodes but… do we know that Buffy’s bedroom is upstairs?
Jenny: Uhh, no I don’t think we’ve seen… no.
Kristin: Don’t think we’ve learned that. Oops, spoiler!
Jenny: Spoiler for Buffy’s house floor plan.
Kristin: [laughs] But yeah, so Joyce says like "something’s on the news… Willow"
Jenny: Oh no we have seen them go upstairs because remember when Angel allegedly left but then
Kristin: Oh yes, of course!
Jenny: Okay, whooo!
Kristin: And Angel has to get down out of the second story window.
Jenny: Right, right, right. Okay.
Kristin: Oh thank goodness I didn’t spoil!
Jenny: Sorry about that. Oooh! Heavens.
Kristin: You would have been all so mad at me. But yeah so-- and then I presume that Buffy has gone over to Willow’s house.
Jenny: Yeah, that’s the vibe.
Kristin: Because-- and then you know Willow is sitting in bed and is really in shock.
Jenny: She shot and shell-shocked.
Kristin: She’s in shock. And she’s saying like y’know… She says to Buffy "I’m not okay" you know ‘cause Buffy’s like "Well, at least you’re okay" And willow says "I’m not okay" and this is when she has this moment and she says "You don’t-- I’m trying to find the words to explain this to you.
Jenny: Mm-hm.
Kristin: "The only thing I can think to say is that it wasn’t our world anymore, they made it theirs." Right? And then later in this moment she asks Buffy "what are we going to do?" and Buffy says "What we have to." And this is like a moment.
Jenny: A pivot point.
Kristin: It’s a big pivot point for Buffy where she’s gone from the moment in the library where she’s so scared that she quits and she says fuck this! I’m not dying I’m not you know… I’ve signed up for a bunch and I’ll do a bunch but once you say that I’m gonna die... this is some real stuff. I don’t wanna die! But then in this moment with Willow you know whether it’s-- I mean I think it’s a combination of all the things right, it’s like on the one hand this is her friend, her dear friend who is devastated and has seen something horrible. Willow is communicating though, this bigger message of they’re taking our world, they can’t have our world, I don’t want them to have our world. I think that this is just a big moment. It is the moment when she spins on her literal heels and is like fuck this, I’m fighting.
Jenny: Mm-hm. Yeah. It’s almost as if some theme music should be inserted.
Kristin: No, not yet.
Jenny: Yeah! I know it’s not yet but it’s almost as if.
Kristin: Jennifer...
Jenny: Just ramping up to that moment.
Kristin: Oh boy. Oh! I know what happens here!
Jenny: What happens here?
Kristin: I have a lot to say about this actually. Right as Buffy is leaving Willow’s room Willow says "I like your dress" I love this because Willow says it, then the Master says it.
Jenny: Ah-hah!
Kristin: And then Angel tries to say it. She’s like enough with the dress.
Jenny: She’s like I’ve heard it.
Kristin: But this is what’s so fucking great about this line that keeps coming up where people are telling her that they like her dress. And the whole prom dress right? I mean we hear this line and this is like stereotypical prom banter right? You go to the prom because you want to get a beautiful prom dress because you want everybody to tell you that they love your prom dress. I’m not telling you that this is how you feel, listener, nor was it how I felt but this is a prom trope.
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: You get the dress and you wanna hear this you know, you wanna hear that everybody thinks you look so beautiful. This time when everybody gets all dressed up. It’s like really the first reason that prom is made into such a big deal. Really the first time that you’re getting all dressed up with your friends and it feels very adult and all this stuff.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: And the fact that this whole episode is about Buffy trying to save the world from ending and yet still the players in that are still telling her that they like her dress. It’s just this beautiful dichotomy of what the prom would be if you were not Buffy the Vampire Slayer and what the prom is when you are.
Jenny: And the one sliver of overlap is "I like your dress"
Kristin: Yes, and the venn diagram of normal person prom and Buffy prom in where they meet it just says "I like your dress" [laughs] So I loved that.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: And, you know we should-- speaking of dresses...
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: I think it’s just about time that we go over to our dear, dear friend Kate Leth with Buffy Fashion Watch.
[Jenny performing the opening Buffy Fashion Watch Jingle: It’s time for our friend Kate, to give you the Buffy Fashion Update!"]
Kate: Welcome back one and all to the finale of what is arguably the best and worst season for Buffy fashion. Personally I love it, the mini dresses, silver eyeshadow and taupe lipstick, leopard print, chunky heels, blow out straightened hair, colored tights, sneakers, plastic rings, Willow’s pigtails, Giles clashing ties and shirts, Jenny Calendar’s 1970s techno pagan wardrobe, the endless supply of leather. But all good things must come to an end and here they finally do. Few people wear anything stand out in this episode actually. I think to draw attention towards just how fabulous Buffy’s dress is. And it is. I went digging to try and find where it came from as so many people have tried to replicate it through cosplay and various other means over the years and it turns out it was made by season one’s costume designer Susanna Puisto, I’m pretty sure, to whom I owe this entire segment when I really think about it. So thank you, thank you a thousand times thank you Susanna. So, yeah it’s one of a kind. Fun fact in upcoming seasons Buffy wears Vera Wang. Not once, but twice. Anyway this dress, it’s iconic for so many reasons. It’s almost sacrificial, like, virginal in its purity. The empire waist, the silk, the rhinestones, the layered sheer skirt that’s so soft and delicate. It works so hard to make Buffy look innocent and you pair it with her leather jacket and the metal cross that she wears when she goes after the master. And you have one of her most iconic looks of the entire series. Susanna and the writers are telling us here without saying anything that they’re here to subvert a trope and it might feel a little obvious but I’m a sucker for it. Her innocence here is her fear of death and her fear of her own prophecy but her jacket and the cross on top of this beautiful soft white dress tells us she’s ready to fight, she’s capable. I mean, she’s the slayer and at the same time it’s this very literal way of saying that she’s hard on the outside but she can still be hurt and I have a lot of feelings. So that’s it for me for season one, we have so many outfits and new characters in new outfits to look forward to in season two. But until then I’ll see you at the mall.
[Jenny performing the closing Buffy Fashion Watch Jingle: That was our friend Kate, she gave you the Buffy Fashion Update]
Jenny: What a way to finish up season one of Buffy Fashion Watch. Thank you Kate.
Kristin: Ohh! Thank you Kate. What a beautiful fashion watch it was, where fashion meets feeling. You know what I mean. [laughs] So speaking of feelings. We’re back in the library.
Jenny: Giles has taken Buffy’s cutting words said in anger to heart and has decided that he is going to face the master and Buffy will stay out of it.
Kristin: Yeah, which is also heartbreaking. I just like I wrote the word "sob sob sob" a lot of times in this episode.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Because oh! Because that moment when she says to him "What do you do with your books?" She throws the fucking book up against the wall.
Jenny: Uh-huh, uh-huh
Kristin: That scene. But then this scene. This scene starts with Jenny
Calendar so proud like I’ve dutifully looked up Isaiah 11:6 and Giles comes strolling out of the cage like reciting "The wolf will live with the lamb, the leopard will lie down with the goat, the calf and lion and the yearling together the little child will lead them." And Jenny Calendar’s like oh snap!
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: By the way I didn’t memorize that, I did write it down. But we hear this-- this is the last thing that this Luca character who has gone missing has sent via global message.
Jenny: Global message.
Kristin: [laughs] and this is the moment when Giles realizes through this piece of text that the anointed one is a child.
Jenny: Is not dead as they had thought.
Kristin: Is not dead, right ‘cause that was the-- what was that character’s name?
Jenny: Oh gosh, what was it-- military man.
Kristin: Military man. It was yeah, we thought military-- well they thought military man was the anointed one but we knew the whole time that tiny child was the anointed one so they learn that here. And of course we later learn that Buffy is the lamb...
Jenny: Right, right right.
Kristin: In this description but we’ll get there.
Jenny: Because first Buffy has to come in and be like "listen dad, I’m not gonna let you face the master, that’s bananas. I’m gonna face the master" and Giles is like "I can’t let you do that" and Buffy’s like...
Kristin: Yeah Giles says "I defy prophecy and I am going"
Jenny: Ooooooh Giles!
Kristin: Okay, I know you’re getting all hammy over there.
Jenny: How dare you.
Kristin: But, the line.
Jenny: Yeah, no it’s intense.
Kristin: It’s intense, it’s for real, it’s "I defy prophecy I’m going"
Jenny: And then of course Buffy is like "I thought you might say that" and then she turns her head to pull back to punch him hard enough to knock him out but she also I think kind of can’t look at his face before she does it you know?
Kristin: Yeah, aww yeaaahhh.
Jenny: And then...
Kristin: But wait!
Jenny: Okay
Kristin: But wait, ‘cause Giles goes down here and we were-- one of our lovely listeners said to us...
Jenny: Oh yeah
Kristin: Hey guys, not a spoiler really but maybe you could talk about the fact that it kind of becomes a thing, a funny thing, of how many times Giles gets knocked out and maybe since we’re watching episode by episode we can keep track of how many times Giles gets knocked out. And so we’ve had how many times now so far?
Jenny: I think this is the third but feel free to correct us on the fly if need be.
Kristin: Yeah, we can correct.
Jenny: We saw him get knocked out in Witch, we saw him get knocked out in The Pack and we just saw him get knocked out in Prophecy Girl.
Kristin: So that’s three.
Jenny: He’s had at least three knocking’s out.
Kristin: So now we’re gonna keep count moving forward how many times Giles bites the dust.
Jenny: Yeah, so couple things that I wanna talk about before we leave the library here. Giles goes down and Jenny Calendar runs to his aid to cradle his head and I want to just alert you that the sound design of her clop clopping over to Giles like whatever kind of chunky heels she’s wearing is really good, you should go back and listen to it, it will delight you.
Kristin: Clop, clop, clop, clop. Even when she kneels there’s a tiny clop.
NOTES: [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah, and then the second thing about this scene that I wanna mention before we move on is that two things in this episode don’t work for me.
Kristin: Okay.
Jenny: And the first one is this: that Buffy says "when he wakes up, tell him... think of something cool and tell him I said it" that just seems so out of the realm of anything that she would say, maybe I’m getting too serious, maybe she’s a teenager and that’s a thing but it seems like she just knocked Giles out to save him from getting himself killed in order to try to save her.
Kristin: But Buffy does not have words through this whole episode. That is a thing. I mean the last thing she says to Willow, the last time she’s gonna see Willow she leaves and she says...
Jenny: Take care.
Kristin: Take care. Isn’t that the whole thing right? That Buffy always has these quips, she always has words. And she doesn’t have words. I think it’s intentional.
Jenny: Aww, look at you.
Kristin: Hey, here I am to answer your questions.
Jenny: Retract, retract. There’s only one thing in this episode that doesn’t work for me.
Kristin: [laughs] Okay, what is that?
Jenny: We’re not there yet.
Kristin: Oh, okay great.
Jenny: First the anointed one has to pick Buffy up and she’s all like "Yo, I know who you are" also Buffy, prom dress, leather jacket, crossbow, crossbow! So impractical.
Kristin: Oh, but it looks so hot.
Jenny: I will say it every time, it’s so impractical.
Kristin: I don’t care, nobody cares.
Jenny: I care, I am a person.
Kristin: A crossbow with a prom dress and a leather jacket. Don’t take it away from us Jenny, don’t take it away.
Jenny: No, I mean I like to look at it, it’s just if you were about to fight the guy who is prophesied to kill you, wouldn’t you want to arm yourself most effectively?
Kristin: Maybe she feels it’s effective, you don’t know. You don’t know her, you don’t, you don’t live her life, you’re not the slayer.
Jenny: [whispers] You’re right, I don’t know her.
Kristin: So right, so the anointed one is like "I’m a kid, I need help" and she’s like "shut up kid, I know who you are"
Jenny: Ugh, creepy little hand. Creepy little hand.
Kristin: Friggin take me downstairs in your tiny little hoodie, Jesus.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: And then we cut back to the library, to Willow being like "Why does she get to be in the club.
Jenny: Yeah, indicating that now Ms. Calendar is in the club
Kristin: Is in the club, right and Willow’s like "I don’t understand how this happened but whatever"
Jenny: We hear your favorite music cue again while Buffy’s walking through the tunnels with the anointed.
Kristin: What’s my-- what?
Jenny: Just after this, that creepy horror music that is under the master at the beginning of the episode.
Kristin: Ah, yeah.
Jenny: We hear it again as she’s navigating the tunnels.
Kristin: There’s a lot of really cool scoring, I think, in this episode. And then Xander says "F this noise, I know where to go. I’m going to Angel’s house" Which now...
Jenny: How does Xander know where Angel lives?
Kristin: Giles has his phone number, Xander knows where he lives, like what’s going on here?
Jenny: Are they all playing poker?
Kristin: Right?
Jenny: Maybe.
Kristin: Maybe [laughs] And here’s where, Jenny, here is where my sexual tension award comes in.
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: I am-- now for me it was a toss up but not really a toss up, but the other contender for the sexual tension award unfortunately for all of us was The Master and Buffy
Jenny: Eugh.
Kristin: Nobody wants them to win that. Nobody wants to even have seen what we had to see.
Jenny: No, no, no.
Kristin: And so I give it wholeheartedly to Xander and Angel.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: For both this scene where they’re in Xander’s-- uh Angel’s apartment, and you know he’s like "Are you in love with her" and he’s like " aren’t you?"
Jenny: And then they kiss.
Kristin: And then they kiss. And then the next scene with the two of them when they go into-- you know they’re going to find the master.
Jenny: Oh yeahhahaha.
Kristin: Xander’s like "you were looking at my neck, I felt you looking at my neck. I told you to eat before we left" [laughs] I love it.
Jenny: Yeah, it’s really good.
Kristin: I love it, they’re very cute boyfriends, very, very cute. I love that. Give me some Xander/Angel fanfic. So yeah, so sexual tension award unless you have...
Jenny: No, no that’s definitely it.
Kristin: Okay great, eugh then the master and Buffy, which is this other really...
Jenny: Such a bummer.
Kristin: The master is like hiding from her and he has this line "I want this moment to last"
Jenny: Bleagh!
Kristin: That’s really super creepy and super terrifying and then he tells her-- this is like awful. She has gone followed what she thought she was supposed to follow to fight him and he tells her as he’s about to kill her "you’re the one who sets me free, if you hadn’t come I couldn’t go. Think about that"
Jenny: Ugh.
Kristin: It’s like uuugghhh. You know.
Jenny: Prophecy plot twist.
Kristin: Prophecy plot twist. And he’s so-- I mean the master, everybody knows how I feel about the master. I never wanna look at him but he really-- his character has a lot of depth in this episode. More depth than I think we’ve seen. His lines are really powerful.
Jenny: Mm-hm, mm-hm.
Kristin: And his force is powerful, which I mean probably ‘cause he’s breaking the bubble finally [laughs]
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: That wibble wobble
Jenny: Wibble wobble
Kristin: The wibble wobble bubble is about to go.
Jenny: Mm-hm, mm-hm.
Kristin: And then again if we were in 1997 you see him bite Buffy, drop her, which again beautiful right? He doesn’t bite her and throw her into the water. He bites her and drops her and you hear her fall onto her knees and then it pans out and you see her from her knees go forward into the water. It’s like-- this is fucking what directing is people, you know what I mean? I mean that’s beautiful, it’s beautiful and heartbreaking and then we cut to commercial hefty, hefty, hefty, wimpy, wimpy, wimpy
Jenny: Ahhhhh!
Kristin: You’re like what is happening, is she alive? Is she dead? We come back from the commercial.
Jenny: Right, right, right.
Kristin: And then Angel and Xander know that he’s out and so they run into the lair and they see her there and Angel scoops her up out of the water. Yes Jenny?
Jenny: Yes and Angel is panting because he was just running, he’s panting up a storm and he’s all stressed out [mimics panting] and then he says, "We need to give her CPR, you need to do it, Xander, because I have no breath. Ignore all the panting I just did." Just saying.
Kristin: Is that the other part that you– is that the other cool–
Jenny: No, that’s not the whole for me. That’s just a little treat.
Kristin: Well, but getting serious in this moment, though, this is like a really cool thing because it highlights the different strengths of these characters, of these people. You know, Angel is this very strong ancient vampire who can fight and kill, you know, has all this power. And yet–
Jenny: If Xander wasn’t with him–
Kristin: If Xander wasn’t with him, and Xander is the only reason that he even went– Xander’s the only reason that he’s down there in the first place!
Jenny: And that’s curious.
Kristin: Yes, because usually Angel is up on the up and up and knows what’s going on, but Xander has been the one to tell him, "We need to go. Don’t fuck around, I have my crucifix, man." Then they kiss. [both laugh] And then go down into the lair and Angel cannot save her. Only Xander– between the two of them, only Xander can because Xander has– Xander doesn’t have strength, and he doesn’t have even like, super-duper brains, but he has breath. He has oxygen in his lungs and he can breathe life back into Buffy, which he does.
Jenny: And this sort of like, I think, kind of sets the tone really for what Xander has to offer throughout the series, you know, a lot of people refer to him as kind of like the beating heart of the operation, you know? And a beating heart pushes blood through your veins and allows all of your major organs to function, including your lungs, so.
Kristin: So CPR happens, Buffy’s eyes pop open in this weird–
Jenny: Oh my god, her eyes open, the camera zooms out just a tiny bit, really fast, and there’s this wind chime. It’s so weird!
Kristin: Yeah! And then she coughs!
Jenny: But also?
Kristin: But yeah, maybe that’s what it’s like to come back to life, we don’t know.
Jenny: There’s a wind chime?
Kristin: Yeah, there’s a wind chime! You haven’t heard about the prophesied wind chime? But oh my god, like, I know that Buffy is back alive and we’re all really happy about it, but you want to know what I’m more happy about?
Jenny: I know what you’re more happy about!
Kristin: Oh! Man! This is the moment we’ve all been waiting for.
Jenny: More Cordelia behind the wheel!
Kristin: Oh my god! This scene is so good! They come out, and the vampires are like, acting like zombies, they’re really being weird, the vamps. I don’t know why they’re walking so slowly, but it’s creepy. And Jenny Calendar and Willow are like, "Oh my god, what’s gonna happen, there’s all these vampires, how will we ever get away?" And then the screeching–
Jenny: [high-pitched] Screech!
Kristin: –of rubber on cement is heard, and Cordelia is like, "YO. I saw these things, I don’t know what to do, GET IN." And they’re like, "What do we do now?" There’s this amazing moment where there’s a vamp on the hood and the three of them are screaming, they’re like, "What do we do?" And Willow is like, "We need to get back to the fucking library." And Cordelia is like, "Say no more! Say! No more!"
Jenny: Busts through the double doors.
Kristin: Yeah, but right, she says, "Library? Great." Then she busts through two sets of double doors, I believe, uh, just knocks down everything in Sunnydale High School, gets them to the library, they go in. Just a short moment after, after they’re in the library (I’m giving this all to Cordy because you know how this rant of mine is going to end) she’s standing by the door, the vamp reaches in, grabs her by the shoulder, and she fucking bites him! She bites his arm, and then she says, "See how you like it!" She bites the vampire and she says, "See how you like it," all while wearing stretchy purple Spandex pants, Cordelia, I love you. Please play the song.
[Cordelia jingle plays: Cordelia ahahh I love you Cordelia ahahh you’re perfect Cordelia ahhahhh ]
Jenny: So.
Kristin: Phew. If you want to fucking hear that song all the time, you just go to iTunes on your phone, and you look it up by "Cordelia," and you can play it all the time to keep your spirits up. Oh god, I love her. Anyhow.
Jenny: So. Because it’s almost Christmas, this is a note I took. "Up on the rooftop, click click click, the vampire master is such a dick."
Kristin: [both laughing] That’s very nice, Jenny.
Jenny: I thought you might like that.
Kristin: Wow, so special.
Jenny: I’ll look for those divorce papers in the mail. [laughs] But he’s at the school! He’s up in that bird’s eye view vantage point, looking down upon the library, where he knows that his favorite pet is about to bust forth.
Kristin: Oh my god, his favorite pet. But before we get there, I want to talk about, well, I don’t know what the order is anymore, but when Buffy comes back to life, after she– after the wind chime and after her coughing, they’re like, "Woah, woah, you just died, so maybe take a minute before–" and she says, "I feel strong, I feel different."
Jenny: "Let’s go."
Kristin: "Let’s go." And this is– somebody tweeted– I had tweeted out, you know, when we did the first watch, I had tweeted like, "I just watched ‘Prophecy Girl’ for the first time and oh my god, it’s incredible," and somebody named Chantal Co on Twitter replied, "This is when Buffy becomes Buffy." And I thought it was the most beautiful, like, capturing of what we see in this episode. And this moment, right? She’s like, "Ohh yeah? I’m fucking back, and now I know what’s at fucking stake, and this shit is over." Like, she is so self-aware, she is so strong, she does not give any fucks, and she also has lived through, really, her worst fear, right? She’s on the other side of this fear. And so, how– Jenny, if you were directing this episode, how do you think you would, I don’t know, get this mood across that Buffy’s just ready to fight?
Jenny: Well, first I’d have Cordelia, you know, holding the library door closed, but unfortunately the library door has a little porthole window, and a vampire’s reaching through it, and the vampire grabs Cordelia through the door, and she’s like, "Somebody heeeeelp!" And then it would cut to an amazing scene where the theme music is playing and Buffy is walking in her fancy shoes and we’re looking at her shoes and then it pans up slowly the length of her entire body and Xander and Angel have fallen behind her–
Kristin: [starts to sing Buffy the Vampire Slayer theme song by Nerf Herder]
Jenny: [joins in singing] Ok, so this is the moment that really lands with a clang, for me. I get why it’s a– you know, I get what’s happening, but it’s just like, a [high-pitched] little bit, there’s just something, it’s just not quite–
Kristin: It’s bizarre to hear the theme song in the show itself, or at least, this version of it. But I’m into it. I’ll take it.
Jenny: Yeah, I mean, I’m stoked about what’s happening.
Kristin: Um, and then my next note is, "Three-headed demon, lol." That’s my whole note.
Jenny: Were there only three heads on that thing?
Kristin: Yeah, I think there were three.
Jenny: And did you say there was a human being inside each one of those heads?
Kristin: Each one! Each one. There’s a human being inside each tentacle.
Jenny: Not in the show, but like, behind the scenes. It’s being operated by individual people.
Kristin: Individual people are operating that three-headed demon, the Hellmouth demon. The pet of the Master, as Jenny put it. And then, you know, Buffy gets up to the roof, clickety-clack, and the Master is so surprised–
Jenny: He’s like, "You’re dead!"
Kristin: "You’re dead, how are you here?" And this was very funny, another note that we read when we were doing our little research of the episode. Somebody had just randomly said like, "Well, if you think about it, the Master might be surprised for several reasons. One, because he thought Buffy was dead, but two, because he’s been trapped in a wibble-wobble bubble–" They didn’t say wibble-wobble bubble, but, "He’s been trapped down in his lair for many years, and CPR was only invented in the 1970s, so he didn’t even know that you could do that!"
Jenny: His mistake.
Kristin: Plot twist. And then Buffy, what does she say to him? What does she say?
Jenny: Well, uh, one thing that she says– OH! One thing that she says is–
Kristin: There it is.
Jenny: –is uh, you know, "I may be dead, but I’m still pretty."
Kristin: Oh yes, but I meant, "You have fruit punch mouth."
Jenny: Oh my gosh! Well, she has so many amazing lines, just in this short amount of time.
Kristin: Well, for me, though–
Jenny: "You have fruit punch mouth," which is, we’ve all been thinking it, and thank God, somebody is finally saying it.
Kristin: A lot of you tweeted at me, saying, "Kristin, I really thought of you in this moment." Thank you, thank you!!
Jenny: "You have fruit punch mouth." "I flunked the written," when he says, "You were meant to die, it was written," she’s like, "I flunked the written," that’s just some nice, healthy high school humor that I can really get behind.
Kristin: And then she eyeballs as she’s fighting him, she sees this broken piece of something down through–
Jenny: Wood, naturally.
Kristin: Oh, of course, it has to be wood, silly me. Through the glass panel that is on top of the library, and down he fucking goes.
Jenny: Oh, man. "If you’re so into hell, go there."
Kristin: Ha haa.
Jenny: What a great "finish him" move, line.
Kristin: Yeah, it was. Very nice. And I like his death. I like the, you know, usually when vampires are dusted, they kind of like, immediately dust–
Jenny: Right, but because he is the oldest vampire on record, he’s really got–
Kristin: He has a skeleton!
Jenny: It’s durable.
Kristin: Nobody has– none of the other vamps had skeletons, he’s the only one.
Jenny: I mean–
Kristin: Their bones turn to dust. His bones don’t turn to dust. And also, guys, who’s cleaning up the high school?
Jenny: They’re just like, "Peace, we’re going to the prom."
Kristin: There’s like, slime everywhere, shattered floors, and Cordelia’s car is just in– Do they drive Cordelia’s car out of the school to the prom?
Jenny: We don’t see it, but I assume so.
Kristin: That’s how they get there?
Jenny: Anybody who– They’re like, "We’ve already survived this much, surely we can get in a car that Cordelia’s driving, too." I just want to like, step back, like one moment. There’s a moment where I think that the three-headed slime tentacle monster laughs?
Kristin: No!
Jenny: Yeah, I think there’s a moment where it’s like, shaking up and down, like, "Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha!" And there’s kind of like a raspy hissing that sounds kind of like a laugh.
Kristin: Wow. Oh my word.
Jenny: So feel free to go back and check that out.
Kristin: All right. I would like to check that out.
Jenny: And also just like, in general, I mean, it’s like scary and we don’t want anybody to die, but that thing is just muppety! Especially the way it retracts when the Master is killed, it’s like, "I’m outta here!" You know?
Kristin: [makes sucking sound] It’s very Little Shop of Horrors, you know? It has that kind of a vibe to it.
Jenny: Totally.
Kristin: And you know, not to miss either in this moment that as they’re all gathering back in the library, we hear this, the theme song again, but it’s this beautiful, slow, lyrical theme song? And this was another teary moment for me because there they are! I believe, there they are, the Scoobies, as we go into Season 2, including Jenny Calendar and including Cordelia. They’re all–
Jenny: Mm-hmm!
Kristin: And Angel is in the room!
Jenny: Mm-hmm!!
Kristin: And you were there, and you were there!!
Jenny: The gang is all here.
Kristin: The gang is all here. And then Buffy says, "We saved the world. Now, we party." And out they fucking go. And there’s this banter of like, "I’m hungry!" And they’re like laughing, "Of course you’re hungry, you died, and you saved the world, silly girl!" It’s just, it’s good, it’s good, it’s good.
Jenny: Feels like home.
Kristin: Yeah, this. Wow, and we did it. We are at the end of Season 1.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: And I’m just gonna touch back to where I started like this is why we’re doing this fucking podcast. This episode is so beautiful, this television series is soooo beautiful and we are about to get into season 2, we cannot wait. Oh man, if you haven’t seen season 2 yet I’m so excited for you!
Jenny: Yeah
Kristin: [laughs] We get to meet new characters
Jenny: Oh god.
Kristin: Oh there’s so much to do.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: But, we’re not there yet. We will be soon. This is the last episode of season 1, we will be back with season 2 episodes starting in January but we will have a couple of other fun episodes in between season 1 and season 2 we’re gonna do a mailbag episode and we’re gonna try to do a special episode where we talk about your favorite episode-- or favorite moments rather from season 1. So we asked last week if you’re able to send us a voice recording of yourself talking to us, say your name and where you’re from and then tell us what your favorite moment of this season was and why. Try to keep it to like the one minute mark or so we can get in as many as possible. But if you’re like I don’t wanna make a voice memo guys, just send us an email and we’ll keep those emails for this seperate episode. Your favorite episodes and our favorite epi-- augh! I keep saying that, your favorite moments and our favorite moments from season 1 and our email in case you’ve missed it is bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com .
Jenny: Wow. Well that’s it for this episode and that’s it for this season, that is the end of season 1. Thanks so much for joining us this whole entire time, it’s been our pleasure to party with you. I’m Jenny Owen Youngs and when I’m not watching Buffy and making this podcast I’m usually writing and recording songs. You can learn more about me at jennyowenyoungs.com/buffering where I have curated a little playlist of songs that are not about Buffy that I’ve written, you can check ‘em out. And you can also give me a shout on Twitter @jennyowenyoungs.
Kristin: Everybody’s like why would we wanna hear songs not about Buffy?
Jenny: I knoooow.
Kristin: [laughs] I’m Kristin Russo, and you can find me over on Twitter @kristinnoeline k-r-i-s-t-i-n-n-o-e-l-i-n-e. When I’m not talking about Buffy, and that’s really just less and less of my life at this point.
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: But when I’m not talking about Buffy I work to bring advice, resources and laughter to LGBTQ young people and their families over at everyoneisgay.com and mykidisgay.com. And we’re gonna do something special in this episode, Jenny and I have a handful of lyric sheets that are, I wanna let you know they are like the sheets that we wrote down the words for the first time writing the songs.
Jenny: From our writing sessions.
Kristin: From our writing sessions, so they’re written in pencil on like yellow paper, there’s stuff in the margins. It’s that kind of a deal.
Jenny: Lot of unused lines.
Kristin: Lot of unused lines, yeah they’re-- I think they’re really special and really fun and we have at least four of them, I think we might have even more than that. And so what we’re gonna do is if anyone is able to do an end of year donation to the work over at Everyone is gay and My kid is gay, we’re gonna pick, no matter what donation size you give, if you give a dollar, if you give seven hundred dollars, all the same chances of you getting picked. We will pick four or more of those donors to get that-- a copy of one of the lyric sheets, and you can go over and donate it’s a tax deductible donation is the best way to do it in my opinion. If you go on over too we made a bit.ly for you it’s just bit.ly/eigbuffy so eig for everyone is gay buffy.
Jenny: All lower case?
Kristin: All lower case, eigbuffy or you know, you can just go to everyoneisgay.com click on the donate link and you’ll see there’s three options, choose fractured atlas, that’s how you can give tax deductably. [both laugh] And we will pick some of you wonderful humans who support that work to get those fun lyric sheets. And I thank you in advance for your support.
Jenny: Buffering the vampire slayer is on Twitter @bufferingcast and on Facebook at facebook.com/bufferingcast. And if you haven’t gotten this message already you can send up an email to bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin: Yeah we really- we hit the email address three times in this episode I think. If you like what we do, and we hope that you do, you can go on over to itunes and leave us a positive review, that is a very awesome way to support our work here. Another fun thing that you can do is you can go on over to our shop which is bit.ly/shopbuffering and over there you can find some enamel pins designed by Kate Leth.
Jenny: Ooooooooh
Kristin: A Buffering the vampire slayer T-shirt designed by Kristine Thune.
Jenny: Mm-hm!
Kristin: And that is just to remind you where we are going to put up the physical copy of Buffering the vampire slayer songs from season one for preorder it’s gonna be up starting today and it’s gonna be up through december 18th we have a limited amount of copies so if you want that physical manifestation of the beauty we hath wrought in season one [laughs]
Jenny: Ha! Wow.
Kristin: You can go on over and preorder a copy they should go out probably by the end of December. Alright?
Jenny: Yes! I think-- should we say also that our New York show is sold out.
Kristin: Yes, oh yes it is, which is bad news for some...
Jenny: But great news for the indication it gives us that we should plan more Buffering the Vampire Slayer events which we will be doing in the new year.
Kristin: Yes, we shall. So stay tuned if you use social media follow us on social media because we will be talking about other events and things that we’re trying to plan both for season one and moving into season two! So thank you for selling us out, selling us out like three weeks before the show.
Jenny: Yeah, so awesome!
Kristin: So exciting thank you New Yorkers, and for those of you who do have tickets we are so excited to see you there. For those of you who don’t, don’t fret we will get a chance to share space with you, fangs with you. All that good stuff. Very, very soon. Yeah.
Jenny: Yeah, thank you so much for joining us for this first season, it has been such a pleasure.
Kristin: Really has
Jenny: Till next time [howl out together] [Jenny performing "Prophecy Girl", of the album "Songs from Season One" by Buffering the Vampire Slayer] Well I heard the words you said, but I can’t make them make sense I face nightmares every night, but now I wanna run instead From what will come, what will come If our world belongs to them What will come, what will come Just keep fighting, just keep fighting, that’s what I’m supposed to do If I just keep fighting, just keep fighting, maybe I’ll believe it too When you sat there on the bed, looking scared looking ahead Couldn’t shake the things you’d seen, and it woke me when you said What will come, what will come If our world belongs to them What will come, what will come Just keep fighting, just keep fighting, that’s what I’m supposed to do If I just keep fighting, just keep fighting, I think that I’ll believe it too Fire rising in my bones, I can free us from his hold From the fear that keeps us bound, I am standing, now I know What will come, what will come If our world belongs to them What will come, what will come Just keep fighting, just keep fighting, that’s what I’m supposed to do If I just keep fighting, just keep fighting, know that I’ll believe it too