Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 1.03: Witch
[Intro Music]
Jenny: Hello and welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer , a podcast where we’re watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer one by one. I’m Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: And I’m Kristin Russo, and this week we’ll be talking about Season 1 Episode 3 - Witch.
Jenny: [sings the word] "Witch." Stay tuned at the end of this podcast every week for an original song written by us recapping the Buffy episode we’re discussing. Now, before we get started talking about this week’s episode. I just want to read a very helpful email sent in by a listener, regarding something we talked about last week. Which was, why does Buffy have a canister of communion wafers in her vampire weapons trunk?
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Okay, so David Bates writes to us: "Hey, I’m currently walking across Spain doing the Camino De Santiago and I just listened to the second episode of your podcast where you expressed surprise at Buffy’s possession of consecrated hosts. This actually has some tradition in vampire lore. You find them used in some movies, but more importantly, please see the attached screenshot from the text of Bram Stoker’s book, Dracula , where you also find them mentioned. The overall idea makes sense in that vampires are repelled by things which are purifying, e.g. garlic and holy, e.g. crosses. The Eucharist is both. In fact there is quite a nice bit of irony that vampires, creatures which survive by feeding off the flesh and blood of their victims, are repelled by the flesh and blood of Christ. Hope this clears things up. Buen camino, David. #TeamGiles."
Kristin: Wow! [laughing] Wow!
Jenny: Pretty great, right?
Kristin: That’s amazing!
Jenny: Yeah, that is so helpful!
Kristin: That is like— ahhh. That is so cool on so many levels. It reminds me of when I— when I first went back to grad school, I didn’t know exactly what I was going to be studying and I thought, I know what I’ll do. I’ll put my focus on religious studies and gay studies. I wanted to kind of, like, combine religion and homosexuality into some kind of master’s degree. And I found out really quickly that getting a degree in religious studies is tricky when you have no background knowledge.
Jenny: Mmmm.
Kristin: And I feel like that’s a great underlining of that point.
Jenny: Right. [laughs]
Kristin: Because it reminds me that I took this course on sacrifice once.
Jenny: Oooh!
Kristin: It was really— it was really good. But some of that stuff talking about, like, the purity and the flesh and blood and all of that, like, mythology, is really cool! I love that.
Jenny: Awesome.
Kristin: And I love that we have listeners that are armed, you know, with this knowledge that can help us better suss through all of these things.
Jenny: Yeah, that was so great. Thanks so much for writing in, David.
Kristin: Yeah, happy walk! I think that of all the methods of vampire warding-off, that might be my new favorite because it carries so much meaning in it. There’s so much going on there.
Jenny: Yeah. And they probably have a longer shelf life than garlic.
Kristin: Yeah, that’s true. Well, we still need to know if vampires are repelled by rotting garlic.
Jenny: Yeah, is garlic still purifying if it’s—
Kristin: If it’s old. [laughs] Anyway.
Jenny: Right. Well, these mysteries will no doubt be solved... at some point in the future. But for now, let’s talk about this week’s episode.
Kristin: Woo!
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Well, so. Let’s talk about the title.
Jenny: Witch.
Kristin: Let’s talk about witches.
Jenny: Let’s.
Kristin: Just for, like, a second. Okay, or the whole episode.
Jenny: Probably both.
Kristin: Right. I just— you know how I feel about witches.
Jenny: I do.
Kristin: But audience at home, maybe you don’t know. I love a witch. I love a witch! These are some, this is a bad witch. I’ll give it that, but I do really enjoy witchcraft. I, growing up, when I was in high school, wanted to be a witch. I tried so hard to do all the things that witches were supposed to do.
Jenny: You also kind of wanted to be a vampire.
Kristin: Yeah... yeah, but I didn’t really do anything to try to be a vampire.
Jenny: Except the custom molded fangs.
Kristin: Yeahhhh. Right. That was— [Jenny laughs] But I was more like— I was just really obsessed with anything in that world, anything in that culture of like vampires and witches. Actually, that’s not true though because like I wasn’t really that into werewolves. I wasn’t that into other demons. But witches and vampires— I mean, witches and vampires have kind of been like a mainstay of, I think, like, teenage pop culture forever.
Jenny: Forever and ever.
Kristin: Since the 90s at least.
Jenny: For sure.
Kristin: So at the time, uh, what was the series of books that I was obsessed with? The Vampire... Diaries .
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: Vampire Di — I read those. And I was super into them and I used to read a ton of Anne Rice. Probably not comparable volumes of work. [Jenny laughs] But I just like vampires. But then I got into this series by the same author called The Secret Circle .
Jenny: Ah, yes.
Kristin: And that was about a coven of witches. And that was it for me. And so I like— me and my friends bought all these books and we got all these crystals.
Jenny: Ooh, crystals!
Kristin: Then The Craft came out. It was, like, a great time to be into witches. And then now, I kind of think that I am a witch. a little bit.
Jenny: Right, right, right.
Kristin: Not using any crystals or casting any spells but I do feel a bit of a connection to that, like, power.
Jenny: You do seem to come across information you really seem to have no right to on a pretty regular basis, just like intuitively.
Kristin: Yeah, it’s a little scary. Or not! I mean, I think that’s— it’s interesting ‘cause when I was younger, I was super, like, into it. But then also very afraid of it. You know, whenever like, my friend, Leah, at the time. The two of us would, like you know, do spells, or try to do spells.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: And like call on the powers of earth, water, fire and air.
Jenny: Can you remember a spell that you guys tried to do?
Kristin: No, I remember calling on the four elements.
Jenny: And then Captain Planet appeared?
Kristin: But it was— [laughing] But it wasn’t the kind of thing— like, we never tried to cast a spell on somebody.
Jenny: Uhmm.
Kristin: I think we were trying to, like, talk to spirits or talk to—
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: I think we were trying to communicate. Or things like that. But I was very scared. So like, I would freak out halfway through the spell and be like, "I don’t want to do it anymore".
Jenny: Sure. Sensible.
Kristin: You know. Yeah! And I still feel like that ‘cause I believe in... I believe in it. Uhh... enough to be afraid of it.
Jenny: Smart.
Kristin: Anyway, not to fall too deeply down the witch hole but—
Jenny: [laughing]
Kristin: But yeah, I mean, I was excited going into this episode ‘cause it’s called Witch !
Jenny: Um, alright. Well, that is a spectacular foundation, a personal foundation you just set up for us. I don’t really have any personal connection to witchery.
Kristin: No, nothing? But you must have liked witches?
Jenny: Sure! Yeah, I mean— I mean I think with all this, you know, the... I was super into all the werewolfy, vampiry, witchy, any sort of magical mystical stuff, growing up and in high school. And... I mean, I just feel like it’s a great... easy— you know, sort of "other" metaphor.
Kristin: Mm-hmm.
Jenny: And also the sort of like, Harry Potter vibe of like, what windows of possibility open when one more dimension is added to the reality that we understand. You know?
Kristin: Hmm. Very deep.
Jenny: Is it?
Kristin: Well, yeah! [Jenny laughs] It’s another level. But you never wanted to be a witch?
Jenny: Uh, probably if you had asked me, I might have told you I wanted to be a wizard.
Kristin: Ohh, excuse me! Do you find witch to be a gendered term?
Jenny: Uhh, yeah. Gendered and also like somehow not as majestic as a wizard? Now, is that the patriarchy working within me? Oh dear.
Kristin: I think that’s— and there it is, folks! We have said it one time in this episode! [laughter] We’re trying to say, right, "patriarchy" once per episode?
Jenny: I think that’s the rule.
Kristin: Yeah, that’s the rule. So successful episode already! [laughing] Within the first two minutes! But yeah, I mean— I think a witch and a wizard— I think a witch and a wizard is the same thing.
Jenny: Well, when you think about common depictions, right. You think of a wizard, you see a dude in a robe with a long beard. He’s studious, maybe he has glasses. He’s very powerful and also very studied.
Kristin: Mmmm.
Jenny: And witches we often see as hag-like, green of skin, uhh, long in the nose—
Kristin: Uhh, I don’t know what kind of witches you’ve been hanging out with.
Jenny: Mostly halloween witches?
Kristin: [laughing] Yeah!
Jenny: No, I mean like, Neve Campbell and company are super hot witches but I don’t think, when you say, "think of a witch", most people would think of The Craft . I think most people would think of a stereotypical Halloween witch.
Kristin: Oh really? Maybe I’m—
Jenny: Or the Hansel and Gretel witch. You know?
Kristin: Maybe I’m so far off the path now and surrounded by so many witches that it would never occur— like I just feel like thinking of a green woman with a big nose and a wart is so passe. [laughs]
Jenny: I guess I’m pretty passe! Also I really hope I’m not offending any of our witches out there. I just, you know, am examining—
Kristin: You know, this is something that they have to grapple every day of their lives.
Jenny: Unfair stereotypes of the witch community.
Kristin: And what I thought you were gonna say was that the wizards were like studious— like portrayed as studious while the witches were often portrayed as like emotional and—
Jenny: Oh!
Kristin: Whatever. I was, like, ready to launch into—
Jenny: I feel like they’re often portrayed as, like, monstrous. And I mean that’s, I feel like, comes maybe from the same place. Like stories created—
Kristin: Yeah, no, you’re right, you’re right. Going back into, like, lore.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: Yeah, you’re right. You’re right.
Jenny: Anyway! [Kristin laughs] This has been a long and winding road and I hope we haven’t offended... anybody. If you happen to identify as a magical person, apologies for any—
Kristin: Yeah!
Jenny: Unintentional wounds we may have—
Kristin: Gotta talk about the history!
Jenny: Given you.
Kristin: You know. I mean, it’s important. Anyway...
Jenny: So about this episode!
Kristin: So about this episode! How about the first moment of this episode?
Jenny: It’s so great!
Kristin: It really is!
Jenny: Giles is... beside himself.
Kristin: [laughing] He’s so upset. And he— you know, it’s just— it’s a really nice edit, the way that they do this, where we’re like, "What has Buffy done?" I mean,Giles is—
Jenny: What could she have possibly done?
Kristin: Giles is so— we’ve never seen this British man so worked up!
Jenny: Yeah, it’s like, he’s not angry, he’s disappointed. But also, he’s angry!
Kristin: Right, right, yeah. And then, there she is.
Jenny: In her little cheerleading outfit.
Kristin: In her cheer— she’s just a cheerleader guys! She just wants to be a cheerleader!
Jenny: She just wants to be a nice, normal girl engaging in nice, normal girl activities.
Kristin: She does! But Giles is not having it. Giles has so many hatred— like hateful moments toward cheerleaders in this episode!
Jenny: Hateful and also, like, he just doesn’t understand it.
Kristin: Yeah, he doesn’t get it.
Jenny: He can’t get his head around it.
Kristin: But I think there’s a serious bit to this scene too, which isn’t made serious here, but Buffy says like, you know, I’m doing this because I want to do something normal, something that’s safe. Which— first of all, then it cuts right to like [spooky noises] a witch’s—
Jenny: A spooky cauldron full of green stuff!
Kristin: Right, so it’s—
Jenny: And so many haunted herbs!
Kristin: [laughing] So like, poor Buffy! She’s like, let me just—
Jenny: Yeah, nowhere is safe for a slayer.
Kristin: No! She just wants a little break! She wants an escape.
Jenny: She can’t have it!
Kristin: She can’t! This is the hellmouth, people. Where even cheerleaders go down in literal flames.
Jenny: There are no days off on the hellmouth. So we go from, uhh, somebody casting some spells in an attic to the credits. And then we come back from the credits and Buffy, Xander and Willow are in the gym at try-outs.
Kristin: Yes! A fantastic scene.
Jenny: The first shot, I believe, is shot through the legs of a woman who is doing a lunge.
Kristin: [laughing] Yeah.
Jenny: So enjoy that. And then we see another woman doing a split on chairs which seems like an impractical thing.
Kristin: Yeah...
Jenny: I think that’s just really for the script?
Kristin: She’s a show off. She’s a show off, that girl.
Jenny: Like, why wouldn’t you just do a split on the floor? I guess you get a little bit more of a stretch but— ugh.
Kristin: Yeah, you can get more of a stretch hanging from two chairs, but I think she needs to calm down a little bit.
Jenny: She might need to calm down. You know who doesn’t need to calm down is Cordelia and her star spangled sports bra!
Kristin: Yeah! I agree. Also, I think Cordelia is the only person in the entire gym that’s not wearing, like— that’s trying out who’s not wearing the yellow shirt.
Jenny: Yeah! [laughs]
Kristin: She’s like, fully wearing a sparkly sports bra, which looks fantastic! Go, Cordelia, go!
Jenny: Yes! I hope she wears many more sports bras.
Kristin: She wears another one before this episode is even over!
Jenny: Wow!
Kristin: There’s a black one with silver piping.
Jenny : Oh dear.
Kristin: Don’t worry, I took Cordelia sports bra notes. [both laugh] So—
Jenny: So— oh, sorry, go ahead.
Kristin: No, no, I just— I think you might have been going here too. Can we talk about Amber for a second?
Jenny: First of all, let’s just take note that when they’re talking about Amber, and Cordelia’s like, "Ugh, what does she think she is, a Laker girl?" And of course, this is delightful because Charisma Carpenter, who plays Cordelia, was a cheerleader for the San Diego Chargers for a time. So that is very special.
Kristin: A little tongue-in-cheek.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: From Miss Charisma Carpenter.
Jenny: And then the next thing we need to talk about with Amber is, like, what is that audition routine? They build her up, she trains with this trainer, and she’s amazing, and she maybe turned the Lakers down. [Kristin laughs] And then she does— she opens with that, like, spin.
Kristin: It’s a very weird thing that she does.
Jenny: It’s neither particularly cheerleady, nor particularly impressive.
Kristin: No, it kind of reminds me of a non-impressive version of the— you know when you’re watching the gymnasts at the Olympics and they do that, like, dance? There’s that dance thing that they do, sometimes they do it with a ribbon and sometimes they do it without?
Jenny: Oh, yes.
Kristin: It was like, something like that, but not—
Jenny: Not Olympic quality.
Kristin: [laughing] Not Olympic quality. But it was just bizarre. I guess they needed her, like, just from a directorial standpoint. They had to build up to the moment... in which her hands set on fire?!
Jenny: [sarcastically] Yay!
Kristin: So they must have been like, "I don’t know, just do something." And that’s what she came up with, or whatever. Sorry.
Jenny: You don’t think that was choreographed?
Kristin: No, it was definitely— it was very, very choreographed, as a matter of fact. [Jenny laughs] No offense to you, choreographer. It was 1997, you know?
Jenny: We were all different then.
Kristin: It was a different time. But yeah. And who plays Amber? Who is that person and where is she now? That’s what I would like to know.
Jenny: We should look her up.
Kristin: We should look her up.
Jenny: Witchery!
Kristin: What, what? What did you find?
Jenny: BuffyWikia says that Amber Grove was portrayed by an unknown actress.
Kristin: Wait, like, so there’s no record of who this person is ?
Jenny: On the website that I have chosen to look at [laughter] there is no record.
Kristin: Fascinating.
Jenny: And you would think that the BuffyWikia would be pretty thorough.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Also, this is great: Amber is said to train with a coach named Benson.
Kristin: Uh-huh... [gasps]
Jenny: Amber Benson—
Kristin: Whaaat?!
Jenny: Is the actor who plays Tara, starting in Season 4.
Kristin: I just got— I got very weird feelings all through my body.
Jenny: Yeah, this is v— how witchy is this?
Kristin: Whaaat?
Jenny: So witchy.
Kristin: What?!
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: I feel crazy right now!
Jenny: Mm-hmm. It’s pretty wild.
Kristin: I’m really glad we looked that up for so many reasons. We should do post episode— maybe we should do a little bit more hunting for who this person is, ‘cause now I’m spooked.
Jenny: Yeah, maybe—
Kristin: An unknown actress.
Jenny: She was just a projection of our fears and weaknesses.
Kristin: Maybe she was so embarrassed by her routine that she had her name scratched—
Jenny: [laughing] Oh no.
Kristin: From the record. [laughs] Anyway. Something that I wanted to talk about— well, you know, before we get too deep into the episode, I just wanna say that this is our first episode after the pilot. And something that I’m—
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: Right? And this is— like, this episode has, how many vampires, Jenny?
Jenny: Zero vampires!
Kristin: Zero! It’s called Buffy the Vampire Slayer . And—
Jenny: Zero vampires, Episode 3. Slash Episode 2 if you consider the first two episodes, which are a two-parter pilot, to be one thing.
Kristin: Which is pretty rad, ‘cause it’s sort of, you know, it’s saying like; "hey, P.S., new viewers, this shit ain’t gonna just be about vampires".
Jenny: Yeah, we’re not just one thing.
Kristin: Yeah. We have—
Jenny: That’s pretty rad.
Kristin: Mm-hmm.
Jenny: Also no Bronze.
Kristin: Yeah! We were missing a lot of the—
Jenny: No Angel.
Kristin: Right?
Jenny: Yeah, some serious touchstones not present.
Kristin: Not present, but we have to learn all sides to the hellmouth.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: So, go ahead, you— Jenny’s eyes got very big.
Jenny: Well, on that tip, oh my goodness! Has anyone ever been more excited than Giles is about spontaneous human combustion occurring? [Kristin laughs] He is so pumped. "That’s the thrill of living on the hellmouth," he says. "It’s a veritable cornucopia of ghouls and goblins and so on." And he’s like, lost in a dream state. And everyone’s like, "Umm..." and then he’s like, "Well, pardon me for seeing the glass half full." [Kristin laughs] So great. So, so great.
Kristin: Yeah, Giles really gets into it this episode. It’s like Giles just realized that the series gets to continue [Jenny laughs] and he’s like, yes! [laughter] I get to do so many things! So yeah, he’s all sorts of excited and, um, not to mention, our team here gets a name.
Jenny: They name themselves.
Kristin: They name themselves The Slayerettes.
Jenny: Awww! It’s so nice!
Kristin: It is so nice! And they really do some stuff in this episode.
Jenny: They really participate.
Kristin: They show— I mean, I’m gonna get to some Willow— there’s a moment at the end that Willow really gets me. But I think that they’re really starting to come into their own. I mean, we’re only on, you know, Episode 3 but 2 in the timespan of things. And they’re already kinda getting some feet underneath them.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: In order to pick up the slack, and in this episode, they really have to, because Buffy is taken out.
Jenny: Hell yes.
Kristin: But before we get to Buffy getting taken out, can we talk about... can we talk about the fact that I recognize Cordelia as her doll self before her name was even spoken. Because I love you, Cordelia, so much. And I always am looking out for you. And before that witch was like, "Blah blah, Cordelia," plunk, into the slime—
Jenny: You called it!
Kristin: I did call it. I was like, that’s my Cordy and...
Jenny: Oh my word.
Kristin: Don’t mess with her. [Jenny laughs] But oh boy, does she get messed with!
Jenny: She sure does.
Kristin: She sure does. She’s— so, okay, the spell happens to her. She’s banging around inside of school, just not knowing where anything is.
Jenny: Aww!
Kristin: And then she— ugh! I’m very upset about the part where she says, like, "I don’t want to drive" and the teacher is like, "Get in the car."
Jenny: Yeah, it was messed up.
Kristin: ‘Cause like, she tries— yeah.
Jenny: She’s doing her best.
Kristin: So anyway, Cordelia goes blind. And almost gets hit by a UPS truck—
Jenny: Yeah, was the UPS driver also suddenly struck blind, perhaps?
Kristin: Yeah. I don’t— but the unmarked brown truck driver.
Jenny: Right, we can’t say for sure whose company that was.
Kristin: We don’t know— yeah. It could have been FedEx for all we know. Um, but yeah, the truck comes barrel— like, it’s so far away from her! It comes barreling down the road at her and just to say, I don’t want anybody to think I’ve forgotten about looking for the moment of most sexual tension.
Jenny: Mmm!
Kristin: I haven’t forgotten it, and I almost gave it, in the first moments, to Amber and Buffy.
Jenny: Oh, in the— putting out the fire with the old... torn-down gym banner?
Kristin: The old wrap-her-in-a-banner trick. [laughs]
Jenny: Uh-huh, uh-huh.
Kristin: I thought that was, you know, there was a little— there was something special.
Jenny: [dramatically] "You’re okay!"
Kristin: Yeah, yeah. There was something special there. But then, lo and behold, Buffy leaps out, grabs Cordelia and they tumble together in just a—
Jenny: Mm, to safety.
Kristin: Yeah. To safety. To breathless safety.
Jenny: Oh, wow.
Kristin: In each other’s arms.
Jenny: Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Kristin: So they won. [Jenny laughs] They win. I name them—
Jenny: They win again!
Kristin: They win again, yeah. This is two out of three for them.
Jenny: Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Kristin: [laughing] So that’s— oh, but hey. Cordelia goes blind. Like, her eyes are not showing in her head.
Jenny: Correct.
Kristin: And then we cut away. And we never hear about her— like, nobody ever says like, "Well, Cordelia was taken to the hospital." [laughter] "Cordelia is with her family. Well..."
Jenny: Yeah, it’s just like, ugh, we should get Buffy a glass of water because [Kristin laughs] she’s really freaked out. But she can still see! With her eyeballs.
Kristin: I know! So Cordelia, who knows where she goes? From the time— from her blindness to when the spells are undone, we don’t know what happens to her or the girl whose—
Jenny: Oh my gosh, with no mouth.
Kristin: The girl whose entire mouth is covered. That’s a freaky... visual effect.
Jenny: Yeah, much more disturbing than blindness.
Kristin: But like, way to go, everybody, making that concoction to spill on the witch.
Jenny: Oh! In science class? With eye of newt?
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah.
Jenny: Listen!
Kristin: I’m listening.
Jenny: Can I tell you something?
Kristin: Please.
Jenny: Buffy has a troll pen ! [Kristin laughs] Buffy has a troll pen. Buffy has a pen , with a little troll doll on top of it. Its hair is sticking up and she’s twirling its hair around when she goes to very un-smoothly... [Kristin laughs] grab some hair off of, uh, Amy’s hair brush.
Kristin: Yeah. It’s very 90s of her. Did you ever— did you have any trolls? In the 90s?
Jenny: I had a troll... because I wanted to fit in. But, um...
Kristin: [laughing] Just one. Just your badge of—
Jenny: Minimum, bare minimum troll requirement. But I always thought they were super weird.
Kristin: Yeah, they were pretty creepy.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: I had one too, I think. But my sister had— ho-oh-oh— like, a collection of trolls.
Jenny: So if a circumstance ever came to pass that brought all troll dolls to life...?
Kristin: Ooh.
Jenny: And they were evil—
Kristin: Oh!
Jenny: You would have been in a bad position.
Kristin: Oh, what a horrible— did you think about that a lot?
Jenny: No, I just thought about it now.
Kristin: God, it’s so awful. Yeah, we would have been— the Russo household would have been out. [Jenny laughs] Too many trolls. Same with Beanie Babies, if they ever came to life.
Jenny: Oh my— oh dear.
Kristin: Allison had way too many of them.
Jenny: Oh, dear.
Kristin: Anyway. [sings] The 90s!
Jenny: Let’s take a step back to the locker room really quick?
Kristin: Yes, please. Ohh yes, please !
Jenny: There are towels— dirty, dirty towels everywhere .
Kristin: Oh, that’s not what I thought you were gonna say. I thought—
Jenny: They were all over the benches , [Kristin laughs] they’re all over the floor ! We get a nice clear view of them before—
Kristin: Before the beautiful, wonderful... heart of my hearts, Cordelia. This is like, quintessential Cordelia scene. It’s quintessential scene, where like, the hairs stand up on my arms ‘cause I’m so excited about her moment here, where she is the worst ! [laughs
Jenny: So mean.
Kristin: She just— can you write me a song about Cordelia? Is what I wanna know. Like, I feel like my love for her... is powerful enough. Can, can you?
Jenny: You want like, every time we start waxing poetic about Cordelia, you want us to have a song to indicate that that’s about to start happening?
Kristin: I want it more than anything.
Jenny: I think that I can do that for you.
Kristin: Yeeesss! Okay.
Jenny: By next episode.
Kristin: Alright. So Episode 4— you heard it here first, folks.
Jenny: There will be—
Kristin: There will be a Cordelia Loves Kristin song. Or Kristin Loves Cordelia.
Jenny: Yeah, I mean, let’s not assume... anything about her feelings.
Kristin: We’ll wait— it’s gonna take her a couple seasons to love me back. But that’s fine.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Um, yeah, so Cordelia has her mean girl moment here. Which they of course set up— I mean, I think they set this up ‘cause you have a moment, you know, like a Scooby Doo episode, where you think everybody’s the witch. So you’re like, oh, maybe Cordelia— we’ve only known her for two episodes. Maybe she’s got something up her sleeve here.
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: But no, she’s just the mean girl. It’s fine. Can we talk about how Willow chews a fucking pen?
Jenny: Ooh! But also— it’s so gross to think about, but also, how much did you chew a pen in high school?
Kristin: Yeah but see, that’s what I think is that, I don’t think that Willow or who— what’s the actress’s name who plays—
Jenny: Alyson Hannigan.
Kristin: Alyson Hannigan. I don’t think Alyson Hannigan ever chewed a pen in her life.
Jenny: Oh, you’re saying like, it’s not believable pen chewing?
Kristin: No! I’m going to do my best to get us a GIF. And if I can’t this up, can somebody please make a GIF of this piece of this episode with her chewing on this pen? It is— she has, like, the whole pen in her mouth. [Jenny laughs] It’s not a normal—
Jenny: Awww.
Kristin: Like, I chewed every pen always. But I just— you just chew the tip of the— you don’t put the whole pen in your mouth.
Jenny: Well, maybe you gotta really get— you’re really working on it. You need to get it into your molars where you have the most pressure?
Kristin: Maybe if you’re like, sitting— I don’t know. I just felt like it was—
Jenny: You weren’t buying it.
Kristin: No! But I was buying it in terms of it making me very amused.
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: But I wasn’t buying it as believable. Also, before we get too far past the moment in which Cordelia goes blind, did you— I didn’t have driver’s ed in high school.
Jenny: Oh, I did.
Kristin: Did your instructor not have a brake in the car? Like, you—
Jenny: Well, here’s the thing. I remember always hearing about that. I can’t precisely remember if they had their own brake.
Kristin: They have to have their own brake.
Jenny: But I remember this very specific instance where I, like, really scared him.
Kristin: Uh-huh?
Jenny: And he— I don’t— I feel like, he was scared enough that he would have gotten involved if he had his own brake?
Kristin: And he didn’t.
Jenny: No.
Kristin: I just think that— let us know if you had driver’s ed, if they didn’t have a brake. It just doesn’t make any sense. These people don’t have licenses yet. You have to be able to stop the car in a situation where, for example, a witch casts a spell on them and they can’t control the car themselves. [laughing]
Jenny: Right, right right right.
Kristin: You have to be prepared for these things.
Jenny: Sudden and unexpected blindness.
Kristin: Yeah, so anyway. I was shocked at that, but onwards and upwards.
Jenny: And then once Cordelia is blind and Buffy is receiving a glass of water to help soothe her nerves—
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Giles is so... stoked !
Kristin: Again!
Jenny: He’s so pumped, he’s just like—
Kristin: He can’t get over it.
Jenny: He’s just like Sherlock Holmes. He’s like, set it up and I’ll try to knock it down. [Kristin laughs] I love a supernatural mystery, gimme more! And then he’s like, why would someone want to harm Cordelia? And Willow, precious, sweet Willow...
Kristin: Oh, right!
Jenny: Is like, "Maybe they met her?"
Kristin: Aww.
Jenny: Which is like, Willow’s version of a burn, about which she immediately repents [Kristin laughs] and feels terrible. It’s so sweet.
Kristin: Also, sweet Willow— no big deal, but sweet Willow takes that scalpel right out of Xander’s hand to get that eye of newt out of there.
Jenny: Yeah, no problem.
Kristin: Not an issue for the ladies.
Jenny: No, no.
Kristin: Can I talk about the ladies in this episode?
Jenny: Please!
Kristin: For a second, because, um... I wrote down, I took notes on how many times Buffy uses very large words in this episode. Because I started— I started with "matricide." That she says "matricide" instead of like, "I wanna kill my mom." Um, and so then I was like, writing them down because this show, in a lot of ways, right— like I just said, Willow being like, "I have it, Xander, I’ll take the eye out of the frog." Or the— is a newt the same as a frog?
Jenny: Well, I think they’re subbing a frog’s eyes for... newt. Eye of newt.
Kristin: Oh, that’s on the kitchen substitution chart? You can—
Jenny: Yes, yes. They’re more or less equivalent.
Kristin: Okay. But yeah, then later, she comes home to Joyce and she says that school was a "reverent joy". Then, later in that same scene, she says the word "platitudes."
Jenny: Oh yeah.
Kristin: And then at the end of the episode, she also fills in for Joyce that what she probably means to be saying is "inscrutable". So she’s got— I mean, the thing is is that Buffy’s very smart. But what I love about this intelligence is that it’s not just like, Buffy’s the smart girl. It’s like, Buffy is a cheerleader and she’s also— like, she really wants to be a cheerleader. And she’s also very smart. She also slays vampires, sidebar. But like, you know, there’s this combination of characteristics in women in this show that are really powerful. And you see it with Joyce too, right? That Joyce is really— Joyce isn’t just like, "a mom." Which P.S., I did air quotes ‘cause like, nobody is—
Jenny: Just a mom.
Kristin: Just a mom. Like, every— there’s depth to character. And we see Joyce in the kitchen, this like... you know, unpacking her art exhibit stuff.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, she’s like, running an art gallery.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Woman of the world.
Kristin: Doesn’t even have time to be a mom, actually, in this episode. [laughs] Joyce is— Joyce— what happened to Joyce in this episode?
Jenny: I don’t know, it’s a rough parenting episode. But it’s also a rough daughtering episode. There’s not a lot of understanding passing between them until the very end of the episode. They’re kind of like two ships in the night, they keep— one of them is reaching out and the other one’s not having it, and back and forth throughout the episode.
Kristin: And that’s, I mean, you know, to touch on the larger theme of the episode. We have Amy and her mom. Which is the major plot point here, with, spoiler alert, a body switch over here.
Jenny: Uh-huh, uh-huh.
Kristin: Because her mom wants to live her life. She wants her to be just like her. Or worse, she wants to be her.
Jenny: [groans]
Kristin: But then Joyce— we have a scene between Buffy and Joyce where Joyce is talking about how Buffy should join the yearbook staff. [laughs]
Jenny: Ha! Joyce really has no idea that yearbook is for nerds ?! Yearbook is clearly for nerds, Joyce! Just kidding, if anybody who’s listening was on yearbook.
Kristin: I was on yearbook. [laughs]
Jenny: [laughs] Then I stand by my comment! Yearbook’s for nerds!
Kristin: Uhhh... okay, so, right. Joyce wants her to join the yearbook staff. And Buffy says something as she leaves that’s like, you know, "I’m not you, okay? So like, back off, I’m never gonna be you." So that’s a big thing in here, is like, parents and how they want their kids to be just like them. The pressure— Buffy says many times in this, she says to Giles, "Maybe you don’t understand the pressure of what it feels like to have to live up to the expectations that your parents set for you."
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And because we’re in fantasy world here— you know, we get to see this actually happen here with this body switch.
Jenny: Right, right. As opposed to the normal parents living through their kids vicariously thing that we get to see in regular life.
Kristin: Right, which just kills them slowly. Instead of all—
Jenny: Mm, instead of fast.
Kristin: [laughing] Instead of all at once, yeah. But yeah, I mean, I don’t know. And that’s what I love about— I mean, you know, talking about anything that’s set in a fantasy space like this. Not that I don’t believe in vampires and witches, I do.
Jenny: Of course, of course.
Kristin: That’s the genre, it’s just called fantasy. But you know, when you set something in a fantasy realm, you kind of don’t have to mess with all the subtlety and nuance. You can just lay it out and really dig into these themes in fun ways that you can’t do when you’re not in fantasy land. So...
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: All the thumbs up for that.
Jenny: Absolutely.
Kristin: Right? Oh, my notes fell away. They just fell right away! I have so many of them.
Jenny: So many notes.
Kristin: So many notes!
Jenny: Do you have a note about Buffy’s extreme doily pillowcase?
Kristin: [laughing] I don’t— I do not .
Jenny: It looks very uncomfortable for sleeping. It is an extremely three-dimensional pillowcase.
Kristin: Oh. Well, that’s also very 90s of that pillowcase.
Jenny: Bumpy as fuck !
Kristin: Bumpy as fuck, yeah. But beautiful. [Jenny laughs] Beautiful and, uh, also you know— lots of pillows, right? She doesn’t just have one.
Jenny: No, no, no. Many pillows. So Buffy wakes up on that pillowcase, and she’s spell drunk.
Kristin: Oh, right! She’s—
Jenny: Buffy is singing "Macho, Macho Man." She seems pretty wasted.
Kristin: [laughing] She tells Joyce she’s a vampire slayer.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: ‘Cause she is very drunk.
Jenny: Uh-huh, uh-huh, uh-huh.
Kristin: On this spell that the witch has cast, which is gonna kill her.
Jenny: Yeah, and she’s so pumped because she’s going to her first day as an actual, on the squad cheerleader. And this is where I learn something about myself.
Kristin: [laughing] Oh.
Jenny: Which is... ugh! So they’re rehearsing and that whistle song is playing, that’s like [imitates punchy notes of the song] [Kristin laughs] And every lady is dancing in a synchronized fashion— and... it makes me so uncomfortable.
Kristin: Uncomfortable?
Jenny: I... was just sitting on the couch, just next to you, but I was like, so embarrassed .
Kristin: Interesting!
Jenny: There’s like, way too much dramatic shoulder movement . And the hips —
Kristin: For the listener, Jenny is doing dramatic shoulder movements while talking about shoulder movements. [laughs]
Jenny: Well, it’s important, for you to know what I’m talking about.
Kristin: Yeah, yeah.
Jenny: And— so I don’t know what that means about me. But like, I— blegghh.
Kristin: That’s your kryptonite?
Jenny: I think it—
Kristin: If anybody needs to beat you in battle, they can just hit "play" on the—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: On synchronized dancing women.
Jenny: Yeah, but I hope they choose not to!
Kristin: Yeah, seriously. Yeah, and Giles— to transition from cheerleading to Buffy being— because in this scene, where Buffy’s cheerleading, all a sudden she throws a girl across the room.
Jenny: Oh yeah! Woooo!
Kristin: Because she doesn’t know her own strength ‘cause she’s drunk. And we never hear about that girl, I hope she’s alright.
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: But then immediately, she sort of collapses. Right after this. And Giles knows what’s up, because— yeah.
Jenny: Before she collapses though!
Kristin: Before she collapses though.
Jenny: On their way to Giles—
Kristin: Yes. Ohh, yes!
Jenny: She has this fantastic moment where, earlier in the episode, Xander has caused Willow pain by informing her that she’s, "like one of the guys."
Kristin: Ugh, Xander.
Jenny: And that breaks all of our hearts because nobody wants to see Willow get hurt.
Kristin: No.
Jenny: Ooghf, nobody wants to see Willow in danger, nobody wants to see Willow’s feelings get hurt, and—
Kristin: Isn’t that, like— I feel like I’ve heard you talk about the fact that that was— that’s an intentional thing that Joss does.
Jenny: Yes, yes! That’s something that they play on heavily throughout the series. It’s a guaranteed emotional payoff, right?
Kristin: Yeah, ‘cause everybody wants to protect Willow.
Jenny: So Xander tells her that she’s one of the guys, and then in this scene, drunk Buffy... says to Xander that he’s just like "one of the girls"!
Kristin: Yep.
Jenny: And he’s so bummed. And I’m like, HA! Ha-HA!
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah. You are not bummed.
Jenny: I’m the opposite of bummed.
Kristin: Yeah, an eye for an eye. I almost— ugh, what I wanted to say was, an eye for an eye, patriarchy! But we already said our patriarchy.
Jenny: Only one "patriarchy" per episode, Kristin.
Kristin: So you’ll have to bleep that out. [laughter] Cool, right— And so Buffy is like, really struggling here. And Giles... this like, puts Giles— ‘cause Giles is just gleeful, as we’ve discussed, through the rest of the episode, through the first part of this episode when everybody is else is struggling. But the minute that Buffy is in peril, he gets really protective.
Jenny: He’s no longer fucking with it.
Kristin: No. When they go to the mother’s house—
Jenny: Oh man, he is so serious and so in charge!
Kristin: He— I wrote down, "You will shut up and listen to me!"
Jenny: Hoo! So un-British.
Kristin: And now like, coming from— right, exactly. Coming from Giles, who’s very proper and takes great pains to keep himself composed. He’s like, throwing down.
Jenny: Yeah yeah yeah.
Kristin: He want— do you have something else to say?
Jenny: Well, I just wanted to say, right before that, when we see them roll up to the Madison home. We saw Giles’ car for the first time, and you may not know it yet, but you’re gonna see that car a bunch more times.
Kristin: Ooh, I don’t remember seeing it.
Jenny: It’s just like a junky old, beat-up British... jalopy-type car.
Kristin: God, I can’t wait till we start seeing Giles’ coffee cup.
Jenny: Ohh! The little green one?!
Kristin: Yes. Love that little green— I want that.
Jenny: I love that cup. I want that cup so bad. If... CW.com or whatever sold that mug, I would buy a set up so fast.
Kristin: Right? But instead, they probably sell a black mug with text that says, "Buffy."
Jenny: With like, the logo. If anybody out there is like, a production designer or a prop sourcer or whatever. If anybody knows where I can find that green mug that Giles drinks out of and you let me know, I will do something very special for you. I don’t know what it is, but—
Kristin: Sounds like there’s a green mug song in your future.
Jenny: [laughing] Heheheh, yeahaha— yes! A green mug song for a green mug, I say! [Kristin laughs] Most definitely.
Kristin: I’m not— I like got the chills with the body switch reveal. Watching it. I really did, I like— when she says, "Amy?" You know? When Buffy says, "Amy." ‘Cause by the way, Buffy is dying but she’s still on the case. She’s like— she looks at the brownies and then she hears Amy’s sort of stutter and speech as she tries to pretend to be the mother. And the body switch is revealed and I was like, ho— oh. Um, this was— as you know, I haven’t seen these episodes before, or at least I haven’t seen them since 1997.
Jenny: Mm-hmm.
Kristin: So... so I knew that something was up, but I didn’t— I didn’t understand. And so it was a reveal for me, and also, wow. And also, this actress!
Jenny: Mm! Robin Riker.
Kristin: Robin Riker—
Jenny: Amazing casting. She crushes.
Kristin: Oh my god! She’s amazing. Like, is she in things now and forever? Is she like, a theater actor? She’s phenomenal. Especially because of the switch. Like, she was great as— playing Amy in the mom’s body. But then at the— when this body switch undoes itself, and she goes from that to the witch—
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: Holy shit!
Jenny: Yeah, it’s very— like, very well executed, amazing switch.
Kristin: Unbelievable, yeah. I was like, super into it. And super into her. [laughs] Also, a note that I made during this scene was— there’s so much chitchat happening. Like, you know, Amy— Mom-Amy is having all this time to be like, "And then, when she would do this"—
Jenny: "I woke up in her bed."
Kristin: And I’m like, you guys, Buffy has, like—
Jenny: Find the book!
Kristin: [laughs] Get up and ask the questions, Jesus Christ!
Jenny: Yeah, that was an odd pacing choice.
Kristin: Mm-hmm.
Jenny: Like, have that conversation in the car after you find the book !
Kristin: Right? But then luckily, in that chitchat, it is revealed that there is a room upstairs that she keeps herself locked in. So they go up there, the cat is— it jumps [laughs]
Jenny: Meow!
Kristin: Jumps out. They get the book, they go to the school, and here we are.
Jenny: Whew! And then at the school...
Kristin: Yes? So sad, Jenny.
Jenny: [laughs] Not sad, just uncomfortable because—
Kristin: Because the cheerleaders again?
Jenny: The game is beginning and the cheerleaders are dancing. And I don’t like it. [Kristin laughs] And I wish they would stop. And also, also! Such a big deal was made about the caliber of cheerleader required for this squad. And the training and we gotta practice hard ‘cause the game is tonight. And then do you know what they were practicing for? [Kristin laughs] "Go Sunnydale go, go Sunnydale go, go Sunnydale go, six seven eight, go Sunnydale go, go Sunnydale go, go Sunnydale go, six seven eight." Repeat.
Kristin: [laughing] They do.
Jenny: That is the thing that they needed to fine-tune.
Kristin: Well, plus they’re dancing. They’re cheering.
Jenny: I mean...
Kristin: I mean, uh yeah. Also, I just want [laughs] I just want you to know that because you pointed that out to me during the episode itself, I did become more attuned to what they were saying. And I wanna let you know that not only did they do that, but then later on, as things are building and the spell is being cast, they cut back to the cheerleaders. And they’ve stopped saying words altogether, they’re just counting. [laughs]
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: [laughing] They’re just—
Jenny: There is a segment where they’re just counting. Y’all.
Kristin: They’re just counting. But everyone’s into it, everybody’s super into it.
Jenny: I guess so.
Kristin: Yeah, and I— so. [sighs] So then— right. There’s a moment that happens here, because this is a very frantic scene. You’ve got, you know, them all in the room trying to get this spell to unswitch the bodies and to undo everybody— undo Cordelia’s blindness, wherever she is, by the way. Not on the cheerleading team, ‘cause she doesn’t have eyes.
Jenny: No.
Kristin: And we’re seeing the game, and it’s all very like, loud and whatever. And then they start seeing each other’s visions, the mom and Amy.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: And the witch realizes this and, well, falls, first of all, off of the cheerleading pyramid. But then leaves the room, and here come the Slayerettes.
Jenny: Yay!
Kristin: Go Slayerettes go! There’s a cheer.
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: But this is like, this really— I don’t know. [Speaking slowly] Dichotomous? Is that a word?
Jenny: Uhh...
Kristin: This is a moment that has a lot of dichotomy in it. Is that better?
Jenny: Duality?
Kristin: Well... it has— oh. You can just say it has dichotomy? There is— how do you?
Jenny: I don’t know.
Kristin: There’s a dichotomy between— is that better for you?
Jenny: I think so.
Kristin: Live grammar check, on air. [Jenny laughs] There’s this huge dichotomy between the way that the witch deals with Xander, and then deals with Willow. She like, conjures all of this magic to grab Xander’s neck without—
Jenny: And squeeze it!
Kristin: Squeeze it and throw him to the floor without touching him, and you’re like, wow, look at this witch, she’s got—
Jenny: So much magic!
Kristin: So much magic! And then she turns around and just, boom ! Willow in the side of the face. [Jenny laughs] Knocks her to the ground.
Jenny: Pretty great.
Kristin: Pretty great. And I think that a lot of— you know, without getting too ahead of ourselves here. There’s a lot of that in the demons and monsters of Sunnydale, right? They’re not— they’re never just one thing.
Jenny: No, no, they’re monstrous and they’re human.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And those things mix together to varied and delightful results.
Kristin: Yeah, and that was a delightful moment.
Jenny: Yes. Also, how about Willow’s distraction technique? "I could help you!" [Kristin laughs] "You know, with your witchcraft! I know this really good cauldron!" Pretty great.
Kristin: Yeah, yeah, I didn’t see that coming. I thought she was gonna pretend to be— like, I thought she was gonna be like, "I could help you with your homework for science." Like, I didn’t think she was gonna reveal—
Jenny: Right. Ha!
Kristin: Anyway, then down Willow goes. And then, you know... there’s a lot to talk about in this scene. So I don’t know how many— the witch confrontation scene.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: Because the witch is trying to hack down the door. Giles is... like, plunging his body parts into liquid to—
Jenny: Magic liquid.
Kristin: Magic liquid. I mean, Giles is—
Jenny: He’s all in.
Kristin: He’s all in and like, that, I think, is really important and we’ll see that develop more and more as the series goes on. But, you know, Giles is just like, this really paternal, protective figure to Buffy. And just cares about her way past just being her watcher. Definitely, like, you know, just wants to take care of her and make sure she’s safe. And he puts, like, his jacket under her head in this scene and, you know. He’s really— he’s putting himself— he’s trying things he says he’s never done— he’s never cast a spell like this before. This is the first time he’s doing it.
Jenny: Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Kristin: And it isn’t until, I feel— it’s not until he needs it the most that it is effective. Right, like the witch is in the room and she’s about to die and he’s screams— I don’t remember the words that he screams, but he, like— he’s saying them over—
Jenny: "Release the unworthy."
Kristin: Ugh, thank goodness for you and your attention to detail. [Jenny laughs] But yeah, he has said "release the unworthy" so many times to no avail. And then—
Jenny: And then he really means it.
Kristin: And then he really means it, and that’s the thing about magic, you know? You gotta really mean it. [Jenny laughs] I’m serious. [laughs] Anyway.
Jenny: So.
Kristin: So here we are.
Jenny: Uh, bodies get switched back to their appropriate... owner minds.
Kristin: No one thinks about the fact that when the bodies switch back—
Jenny: Oh my god. Foresight!
Kristin: That means a witch will be in the room still!
Jenny: But I mean, there’s a lot more important, pressing things to think about, like Buffy’s gonna die. So—
Kristin: Right. I guess. But I do— I hope they just get— they take some notes on these incidents so that, in the future, when they’re doing a body switch, they know, hey, that still means the witch is here. We should probably have some way to deal with her. [Jenny laughs] I thought, by the way, that the witch was gonna get beheaded.
Jenny: Yeah, I think... three episodes into this series might be a little early for a beheading. Given the time, you know.
Kristin: I guess, but like, they planted the seed, you know?
Jenny: Totally and, you know, maybe we’ll get to see some witches get beheaded later on in the series. But I feel like they couldn’t go there quite yet. Interesting moments in the fight situation... just wanted to say—
Kristin: Mm-hmm.
Jenny: Has there ever been anything better than Buffy the Vampire Slayer getting thrown into the periodic table of the elements?
Kristin: Nothing better.
Jenny: So great!
Kristin: Oh, that was so good.
Jenny: I wanna get thrown into the periodic table of the elements!
Kristin: [laughs] Okay, I’m— can I make a request for the song this week?
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Can you please include being thrown into the periodic table of elements in your—
Jenny: [softly] The periodic table of the elem— that is so many syllables. [Kristin laughs] I will try.
Kristin: No, come on.
Jenny: I’ll do my best!
Kristin: Okay.
Jenny: Yes, I’ll make it happen.
Kristin: Yes! It deserves to be in there, it’s a great— that’s a great thing. [Jenny laughs] I liked that moment too. And then, just like in the gym, with this— when she knew that a flag was hanging behind her. You know? Buffy knows that— she sees the mirror.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: She does all the reasoning that needs to be done in the time that it takes for the witch to cast this horrible spell.
Jenny: Mm-hmm.
Kristin: Kicks the mirror down and blammo.
Jenny: Yeah, she’s got total situational awareness. Just like Archer.
Kristin: Ugh, also she has, like— right! Just like Archer.
Jenny: Mm-hmm.
Kristin: Yeah, she really does. She’s on it. But she’s so on it that she can even make jokes. Like—
Jenny: She’s got time to quip.
Kristin: She does! She always has time to quip, that Buffy. She says, "Guess what? I feel better" before she starts fighting back. [Jenny laughs] And you’re like, hell yeah! You know? She’s got all the time in the world. Buffy’s like, whatever and now you’re gonna die, so. Although I guess she didn’t die, the witch.
Jenny: Okay so, yeah. "I shall look upon my enemy and the dark place shall have her soul," saith the witch.
Kristin: Oh my god.
Jenny: That is the spell that gets reflected back at the witch and what takes her away. So... apparently, "the dark place" is the inside of a cheerleading trophy?
Kristin: [laughs] Well, maybe—
Jenny: Maybe it’s personalized to like—
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: The place you least wanna be trapped or like, the most painful place for you to be trapped, because like, it’s sort of a symbol for her lost youth and her glory days that is all she want—
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Okay, okay. I’m on board, I’m on board.
Kristin: And she has to like, look out at high school every day.
Jenny: Every single day.
Kristin: Without being able to participate in it, so I do think that it is customized.
Jenny: Okay, so what have we not talked about in this episode? What’s left?
Kristin: Well, I mean, that’s an open question. You know, we could do a six-hour episode on every episode if we wanted to. But there are— there’s just a couple things that I wanna touch on that are small before we wrap up. One is— I mentioned there was a moment that Willow had that I really,
really loved as the Slayerette that she is. And this is the moment: so she gets punched in the face by the witch.
Jenny: Mm-hmm.
Kristin: Down. Like, and it’s a punch . If you go back and you watch that punch, that’s a— she really... right-hooks her. [Jenny laughs] Or something.
Jenny: That sounded really good.
Kristin: I don’t know what— how you call punches. So she goes down, and not that long later, in rushes Willow with a fucking baseball bat.
Jenny: Ready to tango!
Kristin: Ready to go again! And so does Xander, too. I just— Willow, I was even more impressed with because she had just gotten slugged in the face.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And was like, I’m back, ready for more. I’m here. Where is Buffy? We need to make sure she’s okay because we are the Slayerettes.
Jenny: Yeah. Hella stick-to-it-iveness.
Kristin: Yeah! So that was my—
Jenny: Pretty great.
Kristin: That was a thing that I just wanted to touch on. And then... and then last but never least, Cordelia’s back at the end. [laughter] And my note was, "Cordelia, what about your eyes? LOLOLOL." [laughter] There’s just— she’s like, back on the team. Right? Doesn’t she say she’s back on the team?
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: So sorry that Amy and Buffy are off the team again. [Jenny laughs] And like, there’s no mention of the fact that she like, crashed a car, went blind.
Jenny: Right. Well, there’s a certain amount of... ongoing denial required if you’re gonna be a resident of Sunnydale.
Kristin: Of Sunnydale, yeah. At the hellmouth.
Jenny: Mm-hmm.
Kristin: But yeah, just— Cordy, ready to go, ready to do her cheers again.
Jenny: Oh yeah.
Kristin: But yeah, no, I really— I like this episode. I think, you know— and Jenny and I have talked about this a little bit off-screen. What do call it, when it’s a podcast?
Jenny: Air. Off-air.
Kristin: Off-air . I’m new to this podcast thing. [Jenny laughs] Off-air, we’ve talked a little bit about this episode because I feel— there are a lot of touchstones missing. We mentioned at the beginning, like, we don’t have The Bronze, we don’t have Angel. There’s no vampires .
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: For one, and so there’s a different energy to this episode, I think, than others. And so... you know, I felt a little bit like, ahh, what are we gonna— how’re we gonna go into this one? What do we talk about and how do we tackle it? And I think— I mean, we’ll have, I’m sure, more episodes like that, that are sort of different in all these different little ways. But yeah, I thought it was a really good episode.
Jenny: Yeah. Super fun. So fun.
Kristin: Super fun— super fun... what do you call that stuff in the cauldron?
Jenny: Uh, slime?
Kristin: Slime? Super fun slime.
Jenny: Stew?
Kristin: Super fun doll stew.
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: Super fun dried herbs. You know, we got—
Jenny: So much body switching.
Kristin: Yeah. The body switching was pretty serious. And now we know forever that that witch is— I guess that witch just lives in Sunnydale High School.
Jenny: In the trophy case.
Kristin: In the trophy case. Yeah.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: Cool.
Jenny: Well. [laughs]
Kristin: On that note!
Jenny: I think that’s everything. [Kristin laughs] I’m Jenny Owen Youngs and it’s been my pleasure to serve you this evening. [Kristin laughs] You can find me on Twitter, @jennyowenyoungs.
Kristin: And I’m Kristin Russo, and if you’re listening to this not in the evening, it’s been my pleasure to serve you at any time of day. [Jenny laughs] You can find me on Twitter @kristinnoeline, which is so hard to spell. It is K-R-I-S-T-I-N-N-O-E-L-I-N-E. Or just @everyoneisgay and if you’re looking to follow us as a duo in the Buffy form, you can follow us on Twitter @bufferingcast or you can find us on Facebook at forward-slash BufferingCast.
Jenny: Wow, oh my gosh. We can’t wait to talk to you more next week. But between now and then, if you really miss us, it would be so swell if you could leave us a review on iTunes. That would help more people like you who like things like you do, to find this podcast. And we’ll expand our world and build our community and be so beautiful!
Kristin: It’s gonna be great.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Can’t wait for Episode 4.
Jenny: Me neither. Till then...
Both: AWWOOOOOOOOO! [Jenny performing "Witch," off the album "Songs from Season One" by Buffering the Vampire Slayer ] Well it’s tryouts week and I’m so excited, I’d really like to lead some cheers! But the competition is super tight and things are getting pretty weird Spontaneous human combustion occurred, much to Giles’ delight If Cordelia can’t see her own face in the mirror, what is the point of life? In an attic, there’s a cauldron full of something green And whoever’s doing magic has it in for me yeah everybody knows that Amy’s mom is a total *ahem* Better watch out for that witch Now I’m hella hexed, and I’m feeling wasted Soon I could be feeling dead But sometimes the only way forward’s gettin’ Thrown into the periodic table of the elements I’ll kick down a mirror, reflecting her own spell right back in her witch face And she will remain, forever and always trapped in a trophy case And I really can’t get that mad at her Cause I also want to be a cheerleader But everybody knows it’s rude to perform a body switch Gotta watch out for that witch