Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 2.10: What’s My Line (Part 2)
Kristen : Hello, everybody. Before we get started, we have just a couple of announcements. The first one is that I, Kristin Russ o, Kristen Noeline Russo, have an event coming up on March 27th at the University of Wisconsin Stout. That is in [slowly and deliberately pronounced] Menomonie, Wisconsin [Jenny laughs]. I don’t know if that’s how you say it, but that’s how I say it.
Jenny: You’re gonna find out soon.
Kristen: Yeah, it’s just an hour outside of Minneapolis, and it is an event about coming out. It is for students, it is for families, it is for young people as well. So if you live in the area and want to come hear me talk about coming out and other stuff, probably there'll be at least a Buffy reference or two. You should check that out, you can find all of the information on our website Bufferingthevampireslayer.com under Events, and again that’s University of Wisconsin Stout on Monday the 27th at 7PM.
Jenny: Speaking of events, I –
Kristen: Just hafta one-up me, don’t ya?
Jenny: That’s right. I, Jenny Owen Youngs will be playing a North-East mini-tour, or as I tried to call it a "Minotaur," but my manager was like, no, I’m an adult and I won’t let you have any fun.
Kristen: Ugh. That’ll created a lot of management-haters now. [both laugh]
Jenny : From April 6th through April 9th, I’ll be playing in North Hampton, Massachusetts, Boston, Massachusetts, Brooklyn, New York, and also Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
Kristen: Oh Philadelphia! Everybody's been beggin’ ya to come to Philadelphia.
Jenny : Yes! So grab a ticket coming out, I will jam or something and you can find tickets or info and whatever at buferingthevampireslayer.com
Kristen : Jenny, are you gonna play any of your Buffering the Vampire Slayer songs?
Jenny: I feel like I’ll play at least one a night. Gee-whiz.
Kristen: At least one. You better play at least one, they’re hits.
Jenny: Oh boy.
NOTES: [Theme song plays]
Jenny: Hello and welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer! A podcast where we are watching every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer and then discussing them one at a time! My name is Jenny Owen Youngs!
Kristen: [Laughing] And I’m Kristen Russo, wife to the most enthusiastic person on the planet.
Jenny: [sing-songy-voice] I love introductions!
Kristen: [Laughing] And this week, we are talking about season two episode ten "What’s My Line (Part 2)." Stay tuned at the end of this podcast every week for an original song written by us, recapping the Buffy episode we are discussing.
Jenny: In fact, this week’s song is a continuation of last week’s song.
Kristen: It is.
Jenny : Because when there’s a "to be continued" linking two episodes, we make one mega song.
Kristen: We do.
Jenny: "What’s My Line (Part 2)" was written by Marti Noxon. [sing-songy] Yes, it was!
Kristen: [Enthusiastically sings] Yes!
Jenny: And directed by David Semel? Sem-el? Sem-eel? Sea-mul? [Kristen laughs] I’m going with Sim-el.
Kristen: [laughing] Great.
Jenny: [laughing] It originally aired on November 24th 1997, just two days after I turned 16.
Kristen: Awww. November 24th is our anniversary of dating.
Jenny: Um... gotta go.
Kristen : [laughing] In this episode, Buffy joins forces with another slayer, says IMDB. How ‘bout we call her Kendra? Buffy joins forces with Kendra in hopes of saving Angel from the clutches of Spike and Drusilla.
Jenny: I hate "clutches," and being in them.
Kristen: Oh, I thought you hated the word and I was like, aw man.
Jenny: No, I love the word. But like the act of being "en-clutched," no thank you.
Kristen: "En-clutched" is a word?
Jenny: If it wasn’t before, it is now.
Kristen: It’s a great word.
Jenny: Thank you.
Kristen: Wow.
Jenny: So… this episode opens just where we left off at the "to be continued" mark of Part 1, which is slayer fight!
Kristen: [chanting] Slayer fight! Slayer Fight! [laughs]
Jenny: Buffy and Kendra are having a moment where they’re both like, "I’m the slayer," "no, I’m the slayer," "no, I’m the slayer." And then they’re like, "Truce, let’s talk about it."
Kristen: Right. Buffy calls a truce and is like, "Let’s go see my watcher." Which like, should be your first clue that she’s probably telling the truth.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristen: ‘Cause how would she know about watchers?
Jenny: But here’s an interesting thing. Could you imagine Giles sending Buffy on a mission and not accompanying her?
Kristen: No, but it becomes increasingly apparent through this episode that the relationship of Kendra and her watcher is drastically different than the relationship between Giles and Buffy.
Jenny: Yeah, I guess that’s true. It seems like she’s being treated more as like a sort of – like a heat-seeking missile.
Kristen: Yeah, it’s very cold, you know? Or at least, what Kendra has conveyed to us seems very cold. You know, like, she reads, she studies, she trains, she fights and that’s it. She’s not allowed to talk to boys. I’m jumping ahead in my notes here but how ‘bout some heterosexism in the Watcher World?
Jenny: Yeah, yeah. She can talk to all the girls she wants?
Kristen: Yeah, what’s that about, watcher ?
Jenny: Interesting.
Kristen: Mr. I don’t remember your last name but you do have one.
Jenny: It’s Zabuto.
Kristen: Mr. Zabuto. I call you out for heterosexism! And you know what heterosexism is rooted in, Jenny?
Jenny: Oh my gosh! The pa – [mumbles] the patriarchy. [louder] The patriarchy!
Kristen: [laughs] Sorry, I just, like – I needed an enthusiastic –
Jenny: Well, I was just trying to remember. I knew I had written "the patriarchy" somewhere in my notes but I think that’s exactly where I wrote it.
Kristen: You’re allowed – it’s Season 2, we can say it at least two times per episode.
Jenny: Oh, that’s the new rule? Okay, got it.
Kristen: Yeah, by season seven, whew! Look out. So then we see Angel, trapped.
Jenny: [spooky voice] Hiding in a shadowy corner.
Kristen: Always. Always. Angel’s always hiding in a shadowy corner. But this is very dramatic ‘cause Angel is about to die. And then the credits [laughs] roll and we go to the library.
Jenny: Yes and Giles is meeting Kendra and Kendra is like, "I’m Kendra. They call me Kendra." Sorry.
Kristen: "They call me –" Right.
Jenny: No last name.
Kristen: Yeah. And then Buffy makes this great quip about being stuck in the 80s, which I enjoyed.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristen: With her one name
Jenny: Great, great, great, great.
Kristen: Like, Kendra and Madonna, you know.
Jenny: Yep.
Kristen: And then there’s a great, like – cross reference is the wrong word for it but Buffy calls – or refers to Kendra as the pink ranger. She’s like, you know, "back off, pink ranger." Which I thought was great and I wrote down in my notes to bring up because that’s fun. I loved the Power Rangers when I was in high school. I saw them live in concert, it was great. And you know why I like the Power Rangers, Jenny?
Jenny: Why’s that?
Kristen: Because a girl I went to high school with...
Jenny: Oh boy.
Kristen: Her name was Carrie, I had a big crush on her and she liked the power rangers.
Jenny: There you go.
Kristen: And even at a young age, I knew the best way to flirt with a girl is to quickly watch a television show that she has already watched –
Jenny: Ohh!
Kristin: And then bring it up to her so you can talk about it.
Jenny: This is not your first time around the old... TV... walk...
Kristin: Thank you?
Jenny: Gotta go.
Kristin: Thanks for going on that journey with me to Power Ranger land. But I wanna just share with you a fact that I learned about this reference in the show.
Jenny: Please.
Kristin: Sophia Crawford, who is Sarah Michelle Gellar’s stunt double, also doubled for the original pink ranger. That’s not all! Additionally, her husband was the stunt choreographer for the first four seasons of Buffy as well as the Mighty Morphin’ Power Rangers .
Jenny: Whaaaaaaat?
Kristin: So here I thought it was just a little cross-over in my world, but it was a... big cross-over –
Jenny: Big cross-over in their world.
Kristin: In everyone’s world.
Jenny: Everybody just winking at each other when that line got said.
Kristin: Yeah! Everybody’s all excited, even me and my not-girlfriend Carrie, ‘cause she was straight, it’s fine.
Jenny: Wow. I love how teritorial Buffy is at first?
Kristin: Oh, yeah.
Jenny: And then how defensive, especially regarding her very brief but very real death.
Kristin: What does she say? "I just died a little bit."
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, just a little.
Kristin: Just a little bit. Yeah, I mean this is – of course she’s feeling territorial and defensive. And that – you know, we see that again and again throughout the episode. Because you wish and you wish and you wish that you weren’t the only one in the world and that somebody else was there that could understand, but then you get your wish and you’re like, feeling threatened. Of course!
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Of course she’s feeling threatened, and she’s feeling threatened because Kendra is super well-read, has a handbook? Has a hand –?
Jenny: Yeah, who knew there was a handbook?
Kristin: Marti Noxon.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Marti Noxon knew there was a handbook, Marti Noxon invented the handbook.
Jenny: Delightful.
Kristin: Thank you, Marti. All the slayers of the world appreciate you for inventing the handbook. I would like to talk for one moment about two of the outfits. Willow’s red overalls!
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: Willow’s red overalls, Willow’s red overalls. That’s all I have to say. And Buffy’s giant flannel shirt.
Jenny: Oh my god. It’s –
Kristin: I – we have – Jenny and I are polarized on this.
Jenny: She looks like the sail of a boat.
Kristin: I love it. I think she looks [sing-songy] hot!
Jenny: I don’t not love it…
Kristin: [laughing] Uh-huh?
Jenny: But also, two realities are existing simultaneously. I love it, and she looks like a sail of a boat.
Kristin: [laughs] Well, you know who could probably comment on this flannel and maybe more?
Jenny: I’ve got an idea. I think maybe Kate Leth could help us out?
Kristin: I think we need a little Fashion Watch.
NOTES: [Jenny performs the intro fashion watch jingle] It’s time for our friend Kate To give you the Buffy fashion update!
Kate: Welcome back to Fashion Watch, AKA how does Cordelia have the least interesting look in this entire episode? She’s wearing baby blue, which of course, I love. But I don’t know, none of it really does anything for me and there were a lot of looks to get through, so let’s move on. I’m probably in the extreme minority when it comes to people who love Kendra’s whole pseudo-Jamaican 90s Wonder Woman vibe with the wrist bracers and silk pajama pants and really intense brown lip-liner. But I could give a care, I mean, her character and accent are – yeah, pretty problematic or at least questionable. But her hair in the end of this episode? Is flawless. As my moms pointed out, Buffy’s wearing a flannel in this ep, and I have to give her points for both that and her track pants during the episode’s climax. And if you can forgive the segue – speaking of climaxes, I finally get to talk about Drusilla. Or more specifically, psychopath BSDM Drusilla, who shows us exactly the breadth of her mania in what, I’ll be perfectly honest, is one of the sexiest moments of this entire series. Okay, look. I know this is Fashion Watch, but I’m a human being. And Spike presents her in her beautiful vintage dress and unsettlingly ripped arms with Angel, tied up and gagged so that she can torture him. And like... just fuck me up, okay? Like, what is even happening here? I was, like, twelve when I saw this. How is it not supposed to take root in my brain? Okay, sorry, there’s fashion in here somewhere. Um… her nails! Her nails, Drusilla’s nails, totally iconic. You can reproduce them very easily if you have a French manicure kit. All you have to do is instead of having a natural base coat, use a black or red, with white tips. It’s really great. You too can be a psycho sexual vampire queen. Okay, I – yep, no, it’s good. And hey! Uh, Willow looks cute as a goddamn button in the end of this episode. She’s got her little French braids and her sweater and her rainbow backpack. And she’s talking to Oz about the animal crackers and, um, she looks basically perfect. I love her, and I love what’s happening for her. I’m fine. It’s – I’m fine. Until next time, I’ll see you at the mall.
NOTES: [Jenny performs the fashion watch outro jingle] That was our friend Kate She gave you the Buffy fashion update!
Kristin: Thank you so much, Kate. We love you, we love every time you give us a Fashion Watch. The jewel of the episode.
Jenny: Praise.
Kristin: Kate Leth’s Fashion Watches. Angel is just, you know, "oops!" all over the place in this episode.
Jenny: Oops! Oops, my buttons came undone.
Kristin: Oops, my shirt, oh no!
Jenny: Oops, my shirt’s just flapping in the breeze. Oops, my hairless chest is exposed.
Kristin: [laughs] So this moment I’m referencing is when he’s still in the cage. Or when Willy is pulling him out of the cage.
Jenny: In the fight, during the fight, he actually is not totally unbuttoned but he’s, like, half unbuttoned.
Kristin: During which fight?
Jenny: When he’s fighting with Kendra.
Kristin: Oh, last episode?
Jenny: Last episode.
Kristin: What are you skipping around for me here?
Jenny: I’m just saying his shirt’s been – the process has been going on for some time and now it has come to fruition.
Kristin: But then to follow the narrative arc of Angel’s shirt here. His shirt falls open, oops, and then Willy brings him down to the sewers. Somewhere between him being brought down to the sewers and getting brought to Drusilla’s room, he’s managed to button one button. He gets one button buttoned just enough to hold tight until Spike throws him into the ground [both laughing] at which – when his body hits the floor, on impact –
Jenny: Oops.
Kristin: [laughs] The button pops open again. It’s just – oh god.
Jenny: Dude just can’t stay dressed. So tough.
Kristin: It’s so hard for an ensouled vampire to keep his shirt buttoned.
Jenny: Mmm. Just like mama always used to say.
Kristin: But anyhow, before we get to the sewers and Drusilla’s room and all this stuff, we get to fuckin’ Norman Pfister.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: The man made of mealworms.
Jenny: [sing-songy] Yes.
Kristin: Who is fuckin’ selling some make-up to Cordelia, who – really, guys, we talked about it last episode. But come on, Cordelia, I don’t know. Weak character moment.
Jenny: She’s both a winter and a summer, come on! She needs some free make-up to supplement her multiple palettes.
Kristin: She is not impressed with this salesman’s technique at all.
Jenny: 9.99!
Kristin: I have something really exciting to tell everybody. Last week, I remembered this horrible, horrible character and was like, oh god, I have scars in my mind from my first viewing of this.
Jenny: From how creepy this is.
Kristin: This is so creepy. So of course, the first thing that I did after we recorded that episode was I went to the internet and I looked up who played Norman Pfister. And I found out it is an actor named Kelly Connell and I emailed Kelly Connell’s management and I said, I would like to put my childhood fears – by the way, I was, like, 27. No, 29. I would like to put my childhood fears to rest. Can we please sit down and interview Kelly Connell about playing Norman Pfister? And you know what, guys?
Jenny: [sing-songy] He said yes!
Kristin: He said yes. So before the episode is through, we will get to hear a little bit of our interview with Kelly, who plays Norman Pfister.
Jenny: And he was such a delight. Much more delightful than most people made of worms that I’ve talked to in the past.
Kristin: Yes, surprisingly. And we’ll get there. We’ll get to that interview very shortly. But first, we have some things to talk about. One more thing about Norman Pfister I would like to say right now is I think his favorite line of mine is, "Are there any other ladies in the house?" [laughs]
Jenny: [laughs] It’s so good!
Kristin: Oh, it’s so good and so creepy. And then my favorite Norman Pfister moment is when he busts into worms and they’re like, [high-pitched] "Oh god!" and they run away and then he’s just reformed, standing –
Jenny: Uh, ugh! No!
Kristin: In another part of the house.
Jenny: No thank you!
Kristin: [sing-songy] Creepy as anything.
Jenny: This is the worst possible version of a horror villain that I can think of.
Kristin: It’s pretty bad.
Jenny: I just want to say before we move on from that, that we watched a little bit of the episode commentary on the DVD box set that I have owned for many years. And Marti Noxon was talking a little bit about how these mealworms are a specific breed, or species, that they got. I believe they’re Brazilian, and they picked them specific. They cast these worms because they’re –
Kristin: Like, literally, it sounds like a joke but they for real did.
Jenny: They cast them because they’re known to be very speedy. But because the lights on the set were so warm, they just became sluggish. So when you see them push –
Kristin: [sarcastically] Ha ha ha ha!
Jenny: Oh my god, sluggish. So when you see them push under the basement door in a few minutes that we’ll be talking about, those are actually – that’s sped way up because the worms were not performing as predicted.
Kristin: God, that has to be one of the worst moments as an editor, when you are sitting in a room editing footage of a million fucking worms.
Jenny: Glad I’m not an editor.
Kristin: Ugh, bad news.
Jenny: Also, Cordelia doesn’t do worms.
Kristin: Of course she doesn't! Who does? But of all people, Cordelia, last in line to do worms.
Jenny: I don’t know, she’s really tough, though, I would – I kind of –
Kristin: Yeah, she’s tough and she doesn’t do worms. I’m tough too. Guess what I don’t do? Worms.
Jenny: Oh-kay.
Kristin: No thank you. Why does Buffy and why does Kendra…
Jenny: Believe Willy?
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: He’s obviously lying.
Kristin: Come on, it didn’t make any sense. I just –
Jenny: I don’t buy it.
Kristin: I didn’t buy it either. Kendra – and this moment that Kendra and Buffy have with Willy is one of the first moments when this tension is really sprouting between Kendra and Buffy.
Jenny: Oh yeah.
Kristin: And I’m not talking about sexual tension, although I will be talking about it soon.
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: But they’re – Kendra says "No wonder you died." [Jenny laughs] In response – right? Kendra, cutting. Some cutting remarks from Kendra. I think that part of being called as the slayer is being given strength, being given flexibility, being given all these things, and being given an incredible power with your words.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Because Buffy has her quips, Kendra can fucking cut her right back.
Jenny: She’s got some burns.
Kristin: We hear a line in this scene before it’s over. Kendra and Buffy are walking out and Willy says, "Do you guys, uh… anybody ever ask you to do some nude photos? ‘Cause, uh… artistic."
Jenny: "Tasteful, art photographs. Hmmm."
Kristin: Now on my first viewing of this, I thought, well, it’s Marti Noxon, right? Writing some stuff because… the patriarchy.
Jenny: Yes?
Kristin: But in the DVD commentary, we learned that Joss Whedon added that line in.
Jenny: That’s a punch-up.
Kristin: It’s a punch-up. Is that what it’s called? I just repeated you ‘cause it sounded professional. [Jenny laughs] That’s a punch-up, yep. Punch-up. Punching up with the line.
Jenny: Yeah, [mockingly] well, here in Hollywood… [they both laugh]
Kristin: Oh boy!
Jenny: [high-pitched] Here in Hollywood, that’s what you call it.
Kristin: And Mickey Mouse?
Jenny: Yeah. [laughs] That’s what you call it when somebody comes in – when a script’s already been written but it’s not funny enough or whatever. Somebody comes in and does a punch up. And they, like, add jokes –
Kristin: Oh. I’m so sorry, I didn’t realize that you were hanging out at all the actor bars here in L.A.
Jenny: Here in Los Ang – Hollywood, the Big Apple…
Kristin: [laughing] Nope!
Jenny: The Big Orange.
Kristin: Nope! That’s Florida.
Jenny: The Big Sign.
Kristin: The Big Sign.
Jenny: Big sign on a hill.
Kristin: There you go.
Jenny: Yeah, I’ve just been hanging around the water cooler, picking up terminology so…
Kristin: Great. So glad, I’m so happy for you.
Jenny: Mmm, thanks.
Kristin: So then we go to Spike.
Jenny: A beautiful shot.
Kristin: Beautiful shot, beautiful –
Jenny: Downwards through a doily, which is the name of my next album.
Kristin: [laughing] That’s also the name – that’s the professional name for that shot. The cameraman was like, "how do you want to do this?" And the director was like, "oh, we’re gonna do a downwards through a doily on this one." And the cameraman –
Jenny: "Ah, classic. Great call."
Kristin: He was like, "Not a banner pan down? Okay, downwards through a doily." [they both laugh] Anyhow, Spike, Angel, and Drusilla. Let’s just… take a –
Jenny: What a threesome.
Kristin: What a –
Jenny: Speaking of sexual tension.
Kristin: You were all, [mockingly] "oh, Spike, Drusilla, and the bird sexual tension award." Now don’t you feel foolish?
Jenny: Yeah, that was a mistake.
Kristin: There is a lot of sexual tension between these three. There’s a lot of… S&M happening –
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: In this situation.
Jenny: Wasn’t there a performance aspect that you were warming up for?
Kristin: A lot of [imitates Rihanna’s song S&M] S-S-S & M-M-M.
Jenny: [laughs] Great.
Kristin: Thank you, Rihanna. So anyhow, these three have serious sexual tension. There’s sparks flying between Spike and Angel, there’s sparks flying between Drusilla and Angel and of course, of course… sparks flying between–
Jenny: Of course! Drusilla and Spike.
Kristin: Drusilla and Spike but you know what? They don’t win. They don’t win.
Jenny: They’re not getting the trophy?
Kristin: No, they don’t get it, Jenny.
Jenny: But I got this thing – I’m gonna have to get the plaque re-engraved.
Kristin: No.
Jenny: Ugh!
Kristin: I’m giving it – unless you really argue me off of it. I’m giving it to Kendra and Buffy. There’s a tension, a specific kind of tension that can only be held between two slayers.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: And we see it here.
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: Okay. Great.
Jenny: So we’ll just send Spike, Dru, and Angel the edible arrangement then? For runner-up?
Kristin: Yeah, yeah. They get a solid second place. I mean –
Jenny: Chocolate covered strawberries…
Kristin: If the rulebook didn’t explicitly state we were only allowed to give one sexual tension award away…
Jenny: There’s a rulebook?
Kristin: [laughs] [like the beginning of a joke drumroll] Da-dun dun.
Jenny: Thank you.
Kristin: Speaking of the rulebook, Giles and Kendra, this is, like –
Jenny: Are nerding out, Kendra’s all like, "I read about the Order of Taraka in this volume" and Giles is like, [imitating Giles] "Ah, um, oh, yes, actually I couldn’t get through that, it’s quite stodgy."
Kristin: Yeah, you see Kendra give a real good giggle in that moment.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah. They giggle hard. And then Kendra’s like, [scoffs] "She’s a student, but what, is she also a cheerleader?" Thinking it’s the funniest –
Kristin: I was upset about that. I didn’t feel that was in Kendra’s…
Jenny: How dare you, Kendra?
Kristin: Yeah, Kendra –
Jenny: Why does Kendra even know what a cheerleader is if she’s been with her watcher since she was a little kid?
Kristin: Right? Right and if she does, I just feel like – I just didn’t feel like Kendra would use her words like that, you know?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Like, she’s very serious and her cutting words are really good and really cutting. She doesn’t –
Jenny: What if she’s an unwitting pawn of –
Jenny and Kristin: [whispers] The patriarchy?
Kristin: Oh god. And this is the episode when they lost their entire male audience.
Jenny: Farewell, men! [Kristin laughs] Which is something I’ve been saying for years!
Kristin: Wow. Wow Jenny.
Jenny: And moving right along.
Kristin: We’re taping this episode a lot later in the evening than we normally do.
Jenny: [laughing] Yeah.
Kristin: It’s like 10 o’clock or 10:30.
Jenny: So we are, but we both have more and less energy than usual.
Kristin: Yeah, I think it’s working out well for us.
Jenny: Riding that rollercoaster.
Kristin: Yeah, so and then – let’s get back on the Kendra train for a second because Kendra’s presence, especially in conjunction with Career Week…
Jenny: Ugh!
Kristin: Is really making Buffy think.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: It’s really – she’s kind of resentful, she’s kind of defensive, but she’s also kind of like, wait a second…
Jenny: Maybe we can work something out!
Kristin: She’s like, I could go to Disneyland and like –
Jenny: And that’s kind of her one idea.
Kristin: That’s her one idea but she’s like, give me some more time, I will have more ideas, this is great. Maybe I don’t have to be the slayer forever. So I think that’s interesting and powerful and just underlines a lot of the things we always talk about with Buffy, where she carries a lot of weight. And now, like, is this her ticket to having a day off or just maybe letting Kendra be the slayer?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Let me tell you something though, as somebody who identifies with Buffy…
Jenny: She would never be able to relinquish control.
Kristin: No, no, never. She’d never be able to give it up.
Jenny: I know you.
Kristin: [laughs] I could never, I could never. Somebody stands right next to me and says, "Kristin, I can do this for you" and I’m like, that is wonderful. No thank you. I will do it, I can do it best.
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: It’s the way of us slayers, you know?
Jenny: Right. So Cordelia and Xander are in a basement.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: "Xordelia" situation?
Kristin: [laughs] Much better than "Cander." Xander and Cordelia are in the basement and they’re getting very worked up ‘cause there’s a worm man upstairs, as previously discussed.
Jenny: Sure. Tensions are high.
Kristin: Tensions are high, a lot of tensions in a lot of places in this episode. Let’s go to the episode and let’s just hear – let’s just all experience this moment together, shall we?
Jenny: Please.
NOTES: [Audio clip plays]
Xander: I hope these are my last moments. Three more seconds with you and I’m gonna…
Cordelia: "I’m gonna" what? Coward.
Xander: Moron.
Cordelia: I hate you!
Xander: I hate you!
NOTES: [Swelling romantic music plays as they kiss]
Xander: We so need to get out of here.
Cordelia: Mmhmm.
NOTES: [Audio clip ends]
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: Wow-wow-wow!
Jenny: So great. The music cue.
Kristin: The music cue is everything .
Jenny: Perfect.
Kristin: It’s everything because we have a lot of feelings about this. Mey Rude texted me, I remember, back when she hit this episode. She lost her shit over this.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Here we’ve been talking, especially if you’re following this with us, we’ve been talking Cordelia up til we’re blue in the face.
Jenny: We’ve been talking Xander all the way down.
Kristin: And talking Xander super down.
Jenny: Who could have predicted?!
Kristin: Who could have predicted –
Jenny: Two titans converge.
Kristin: Wow. So this happens not once, but two times in this episode, there is a kiss. I mean, what are your feelings about this, Jenny?
Jenny: I’m shocked.
Kristin: Okay, you’re not shocked because you’ve seen it a million times. What are your feelings about this?
Jenny: My feelings are… it makes less sense to me now than it did on previous watches.
Kristin: It still makes sense to me.
Jenny: It makes sense ‘cause they’re hate-kissing.
Kristin: Right. All we’ve seen here in this episode is like a physical thing, that is manifested out of this hatred – this shared hatred, right?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And I think that there’s really some truth to that. I think there’s also like – this is kind of a classic storyline where the "loser" – and I’m not calling Xander that, but he calls himself that, kind of, in the grand scheme of high school, and the popular girl –
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Or the reverse, where the quarterback and the girl –
Jenny: And that shitbomb in the overalls.
Kristin: Yeah, [sarcastically] that girl before she takes her glasses off.
Jenny: Exactly.
Kristin: You know, fall for each other and it’s like, oh god, what – how is this possible?
Jenny: And the emotion it brings up for them is: "We gotta get out of here."
Kristin: Yeah. We are so – the fact that we have kissed is more terrifying to us than a man who explodes into worms.
Jenny: [disgusted noises]
Kristin: To give you an idea. Okay, so Cordelia – [grossed out] oh god. She goes upstairs…
Jenny: Oh, this is such a bummer.
Kristin: I don’t like it. I don’t like it, Jenny. It makes me –
Jenny: It’s raining worms!
Kristin: [singing] It’s raining worms.
Jenny: Oh, hallelujah. What’s important to – what might make you feel better a little bit better about this is, according to Marti Noxon, those are just rubber worms raining down.
Kristin: Yeah, ‘cause Charisma would not have it. You know what? You know who doesn’t do worms? Cordelia or Charisma.
Jenny: Or Charisma. Something else to note here is that Cordelia opens her mouth to – she stops under the waterfall of bugs, instead of continuing to run. And then she opens her mouth to scream.
Kristin: I mean you know what? I want to wish that I wouldn’t do the same thing. But I’ll tell you what, if it was raining fucking worms on me, I don’t know what I would do. I think I might go into child’s pose on the floor –
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: And just hope for the best.
Jenny: [high-pitched] No, you wouldn’t do that.
Kristin: I don’t know what I would do.
Jenny: Your survival instinct is stronger than that.
Kristin: I would have been naked on the front lawn though, I’ll tell you what. Like, I know that Xander hosed Cordelia off –
Jenny: I mean, the fact that she didn’t at least take that sweater off which was holding most of the worms is bananas .
Kristin: No, I would have – I think that if I’m imagining it, if I’m putting myself in Cordelia’s place, I would have taken off at least my sweater and my dress and I think I would have, like –
Jenny: You probably would have taken your underwear off.
Kristin: I think I would have taken everything off.
Jenny: Like, every last thing.
Kristin: But at least the sweater and the dress and I would have head-first ran into Xander. Like, just pushed my head into Xander, that would have been my – just like get them off me, get the worms off my hair.
Jenny: Yeah, hell yeah.
Kristin: But instead she gets hosed down.
Jenny: And now, we had a slightly different viewing experience of this –
Kristin: Well –
Jenny: I feel like Xander, for maybe like two beats longer than necessary, maintains the hosing?
Kristin: Yeah, no, I –
Jenny: But it didn’t read that way to you.
Kristin: No, it did read that way, I just – the first time you said it – ‘cause the first time we watched it, you said that and then I kind of expected it to be this gross, Xandery kind of deal, where despite the impending danger, he was trying to hose her extra so he could see her boobs or whatever?
Jenny: No, he’s more of just in a haze.
Kristin: Yeah, it’s more like he’s trying to help her as best he can and in the middle of it is like accidently seeing boobs and is like [awkwardly] "ahhhh…"
Jenny: Yeah, oops.
Kristin: So, right. So we don’t really disagree, I just –
Jenny: Listen, we’ve all been slowed down by boobs before.
Kristin: Haven’t we? They slow people down.
Jenny: And that’s okay.
Kristin: And that’s great. [laughing] Oz!
Jenny: Wearing the biggest shirt you’ve ever seen.
Kristin: No, I don’t know. There’re bigger and bigger.
Jenny: Shirt’s pretty big. I think he borrowed a shirt from Xander –
Kristin: Bigger than Buffy’s?
Jenny: [laughing] Oh man! Sexual tension award: Oz’s enormous shirt and Buffy’s enormous shirt. Okay, here we are at Career Week.
Kristin: Here we are at Career Week, where we have a school shooting that happens.
Jenny: Ewww.
Kristin: The Taraka number two? Three?
Jenny: Three.
Kristin: Taraka number three.
Jenny: I’m not buying Taraka number three. It’s just, like, too many guns.
Kristin: Right? I don’t think you get to use guns .
Jenny: It’s just not convincing. "Oh, I’ve got another gun on my ankle."
Kristin: For me, guns don’t have a place in this –
Jenny: In this world.
Kristin: No, you don’t get to use guns! You’re a mythological fucking bounty hunter, you can’t – come on!
Jenny: Just like, no.
Kristin: Do your thing, use your strength, man, not a gun. So this is a scene, who knows if we would even be able to see this scene today, on today’s television.
Jenny: Oh yeah, good point.
Kristin: This is, you know, before Columbine and before so many other shootings that we’ve seen in our country in the last 20 years. But this happens. It’s kind of short-lived, Oz gets shot. The skeleton gets shot also. I don’t want to leave the skeleton out.
Jenny: Oh yeah.
Kristin: Loses his whole skull.
Jenny: Yep.
Kristin: Jonathan gets taken hostage. I think Jonathan’s in the Guiness Book of World Records for shortage hostage ever.
Jenny: Also most ineffectual, like, back up to the door before you drop your host – just no .
Kristin: This Tarakan needs some advice.
Jenny: I’m shocked –
Kristin: Needs some help.
Jenny: That this person was allowed into the Order of Taraka.
Kristin: Right?
Jenny: Don’t they have standards anymore? [snobbily] In my day, the Order of Taraka would never have allowed such a sloppy assassin into their ranks.
Kristin: So Willow is ACE-bandaging Buffy’s knee. I just like to – like this moment. I thought it was funny that Willow was like, "you know what I’m good at? The internet and ACE bandages."
Jenny: Nice.
Kristin: So then Xander and Cordelia come in, they meet Kendra.
Jenny: Oh my god, Cordelia’s like [abruptly] "hi".
Kristin: Cordelia could care less. [Jenny laughs] Cordelia is wet and she’s wormed and she’s upset.
Jenny: Yeah, wet and wormed.
Kristin: She’s not happy. Xander has this horrible line. "You’re a slayer, I’m into that in a woman" or whatever he says.
Jenny: [grossed out sounds]
Kristin: Which I’m not into you. So bye.
Jenny: Then Kendra is completely completely incapable of having a conversation. [robotically] "I hope I will be of service" and calls Xander sir and it’s a whole thing.
Kristin: Right ‘cause we learn – and we learn later on in the library Kendra’s backstory –
Jenny: She’s not allowed to talk to boys.
Kristin: Which we have to talk about. Kendra, her parents gave her to her watcher at such a young age that she can’t remember her parents. So this is just an entirely different experience. And I’m gonna jump ahead a little bit because I really want to talk about this. There’s a moment between Kendra and Buffy, where Kendra is like – they’re talking about emotions. And Kendra is like, "You can’t have emotions, they make you weak." And Buffy says "No, my emotions give me power."
Jenny: Kristin Russo also says this.
Kristin: You better fucking believe I do! I fucking love this exchange, I was so excited about it. Because, you know – just classically, women are told that their emotions make them weak. I mean, this is a thing. It’s been a thing forever, for as long as time. Tale as old as time, if you will.
Jenny: Mmmmm.
Kristin: And I think that there are a lot of women – a lot of women I know who absolutely are terrified to show any kind of emotion, because they feel it will make them not be taken seriously and will –
Jenny: Hell yeah.
Kristin: And will also make them seem weak. And that’s actually true, I mean, that does happen, I think, a lot. And so I loved this because I, like Buffy, really embrace my emotions. I do feel that they give me a lot of power, I express them very much. And I just loved that it was played out between these two because I found it to be a very powerful feminist moment.
Jenny: Mmmmm.
Kristin: There are a lot of them in the show, I know. But this one really spoke to me. Fucking emotions don’t make you weak, they make you stronger. I am Team Buffy on this one. And I think Kendra is coming around to be Team Buffy too, it’s just she was trained to believe that her emotions were bad.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And you have said "the patriarchy" too many times. You’ve taken it away from me.
Jenny: Sorry, I got too excited.
Kristin: But I won’t be – my emotions will let me say it. [quietly] The patriarchy.
Jenny: O… kay. You feel better now?
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Listen, I don’t feel better ‘cause I have a problem and it’s this.
Kristin: Okay.
Jenny: When Spike is explaining the ritual – when Spike, Drusilla, I think Angel? Are all discussing the ritual that needs to happen, Spike is like, "Tomorrow on the full moon, bligetty bligetty blah" and then !
Kristin: Oh, he says full moon?
Jenny: He says full moon.
Kristin: [gasps] Scandalous.
Jenny: And Giles says…
Jenny and Kristin: New moon.
Jenny: [angrily] Which is the opposite of a full moon.
Kristin: Wow, I didn’t even notice that.
Jenny: So mad.
Kristin: Yeah, that’s upsetting. You know what’s not upsetting? No, it is upsetting. The holy water torture.
Jenny: I mean…
Kristin: It’s like – it’s got a little of S-S-S and M-M-M.
Jenny: Uh yeah. Speaking of singing too, Dru’s back on her number one hit single, "The Lamb is Caught in the Blackberry Bush." [Kristin laughs] She’s at it and oops! Angel’s shirt is off.
Kristin: Oh god. You know what? It’s not even – I don’t believe your "oops" anymore, Angel.
Jenny: We should have a jingle for just when Angel’s shirt is off.
Kristin: [laughs] It’ll be too – it’ll take over the whole episode.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Drusilla though, Juliet Landau, Drusilla – all of them, both of them. This moment, this scene is brilliant where she is saying, "they used to eat cakes and eggs and honey." She delivers these fucking lines so beautifully and brilliantly. I often think about how she was given a piece of paper, Juliet Landau, that said these words and that these choices she made make them feel the way they do.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: It’s just so powerful and her retelling Angel his worst story, right? The story that kills him more than any of the other stories in his history as a vampire, as she is burning him with holy water is really powerful shit.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Drusilla, you get your jingle!
NOTES: [Drusilla’s jingle] Drusilla, you fill-a my heart with dread And still I’m led right back to you.
Jenny: Great.
Kristin: [sighs happily] It’s been a minute since we got to hear Dru’s jingle.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: That jingle is available on iTunes as a ringtone.
Jenny: If you’re an iPhone user, you can just go into the iTunes store on your phone and find it.
Kristin: You can. And Android users, know that we know about you and your needs and we are working on getting those songs available for you as well so stay tuned, we will let you know when they are available. We are
working on it. Before we go forward, I just don’t want to miss the line: "Nobody messes with my boyfriend."
Jenny: [laughs] Oh boy.
Kristin: Thank you Buffy, thank you [sing-songy] Buffy! Okay. We just gave Dru her jingle but but also another line that I loved was when she barks at Angel and says "bad dog."
Jenny: Yeah. Yes! That’s a fave.
Kristin: Angel tries to get Spike to kill him early –
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: Which is like, pretty… when you really think about that –
Jenny: Crafty.
Kristin: It’s really crafty and it’s also pretty sac – I mean it’s pretty martyr-like of Angel, you know?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: He’d rath –
Jenny: Yeah I feel like he’s more use – I guess he thinks their ritual’s going to kill him so…
Kristin: Yeah, I guess.
Jenny: He’s of more use to the cause alive.
Kristin: I know, that’s what I think. Like, I’d rather have Angel alive – well, Angel winds up alive so it’s fine.
Jenny: Or undead, really.
Kristin: Right. So I think we’re getting to the chapel ambush here. That’s what I call this.
Jenny: Fucking Willy, man.
Kristin: I mean, why –
Jenny: Ain’t it just like a Willy?
Kristin: Of course.
Jenny: Why would you ever trust Willy?
Kristin: This is the second time, second time they trusted Willy. Why is everybody trusting Willy? Jenny and I told you last week, we know Willies. You don’t trust Willies. Come on.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Love a Willy, don’t trust a Willy.
Jenny: I – okay, the number of times we’ve said "Willy…" [Kristin laughs] I think we should stop.
Kristin: It’s offsetting the amount of times we’ve said "patriarchy."
Jenny: Right. So we get into the convent and there’s every villain conveniently located all in one place, including Norman Pfister, the man of worms.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: And we were able to have a conversation with him. Well, I should say with the actor who played him. Kelly Connell.
Kristin: Yes. Luckily, not a conversation with Norman Pfister.
Jenny: Not an actual worm man. So here’s our conversation with the lovely Kelly Connell.
NOTES: [Interview intro sound plays]
Kristin: Thank you, thank you again for taking the time out to talk to us. We’re so excited and our listeners are going to be so excited to hear from you and hear about your experience on Buffy the Vampire Slayer .
Kelly: Yeah, it’s been – ever since you got a hold of me, I’ve revisited those two episodes. And it’s been 20 years since I did those, so it’s a little peculiar to see myself 20 years younger and watch myself disintegrate into mealworms at the same time.
NOTES: [They all laugh]
Kristin: Well, I will say that I watched the series – Jenny and I come to the series a bit differently. I’ve watched the series just one time before this rewatch for the podcast, and I don’t have the best memory. I don’t remember a ton of things about my first watch. I remembered this character so, [Kelly laughs] so deeply. It is a very, very disturbing image.
Kelly: He is a creepy fellow, to say the least.
Kristin: He is.
Kelly: As I watch it and I see myself looking at Charisma, [laughs] willing to give away some free samples, it’s just so weird. That strange look on my face and very trippy to look back at it now, 20 years later, like I said. We shot that in several different locations. The house location, I believe, was in Torrence –
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kelly: If I’m not mistaken.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Kelly: The big, big fight at the end where Nick stomps on me, and I’ve never forgiven him for that, [Jenny and Kristin laugh] for killing me the way the way he did.
Kristin: It just occurred to me that in our research of these two episodes, I saw something that said that in "What’s My Line, Part 1", the house that was used, the interior of the house – and maybe you don’t know ‘cause you were only on the exterior I think in Part 1, but that was the actual house that they used. And in "What’s My Line, Part 2," they actually had built a soundstage for the interior of the house. Do you have any memory of that?
Kelly: Yes, that is correct. Because they were doing the CGI of the mealworm walking out of my nose and in my ear, I think it was.
NOTES: [Jenny and Kristin laugh]
Kristin: Oh god.
Kelly: And by the way, I’m still in close contact with that mealworm.
Jenny: Oooh.
Kelly: We’re still good friends to this day.
Kristin: Oh, that’s nice.
Jenny: So nice to hear.
NOTES: [They all laugh]
Kelly: Yeah, it’s especially tough in show business to keep in touch with people you’ve worked with. Um, so that was a special effect so we did that on a soundstage, as I recall. And that was in Santa Monica I think on Stewart Avenue is where the soundstage was.
Jenny: Oh wow, what a memory.
Kristin: Yeah, very good memory.
Kelly: Yeah, like I said, when I revisited it, it kind of all came back to me.
Jenny: Can you tell us a little bit about how you came to the show and what the audition process was like and did you have to transform into mealworms at the audition?
Kristin: [laughs] Is that how you got the role?
Kelly: [laughs] Unfortunately, I transformed myself into mosquitoes at first.
Jenny and Kristin: Ohhhhh.
Kristin: How embarrassing.
Kelly: And that didn’t go over well, so I really thought I blew that audition at that point. I’ll be honest with you, it’s 20 years ago. I don’t specifically recall that audition. I think they described to me "this is what happens." And you know, of all the roles I played in the 80s and 90s and early 2000s, I still get recognized for Buffy the Vampire Slayer . It’s really cool that that still happens and that you guys got in touch with me.
Kristin: [laughs] People recognize you and then they just start to run.
NOTES: [They all laugh]
Kelly: Yeah, that’s right, yep. "Hey, do that thing, hey man, do that thing."
Kristin: What went into – you know, the role is such a memorable role, the character is just terrifying, as I already have said.
Kelly: Cool.
Kristin: What went into that role for you, preparing for it and playing it?
Kelly: As I watch it, I think what I was doing was, I was trying really hard to be human [they all laugh]. Because on the inside, I was masquerading all my worminess and just doing my best to behave like a human being.
Jenny: Wow.
Kelly: And hope that I’m able to hold it together long enough to pull off my mission.
Kristin: Wow. And you were, I mean, you might have been killed in the end, but you really did an effective job, I think, of fooling us all.
Kelly: Yeah. Like I said, when I watch it it’s, "Wow, that’s a creepy guy." For sure. But creepy guys are fun to play. Over the years, I’ve played a lot of accountants and doctors and executives. And once in awhile, something fun like that comes along and it’s – yeah, you really get to break out of the box a bit with stuff that’s bizarre or science fiction-like. It’s a lot of fun to do.
Jenny: Yeah. Do you have any particularly fond or fun memories of the actual shoot?
Kelly: Um, I really enjoyed that work we did down in Torrence at the house. There was just something fun about carrying a box of… it’s, like, beauty supplies right or something?
Jenny: Right, Blush Cosmetics.
Kelly: Blush Cosmetics, that’s right. I enjoyed working on that scene because it was the setup scene, I guess, and it was a lot of fun. That was the first time I got to introduce the character and to know that he’s not exactly what he appears to be.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Kelly: The final scene where I get stomped on, I believe that is a convent that Katy Perry has been trying to buy for a while.
Jenny: What?!
NOTES: [Kristin laughs]
Kelly: Seriously. That location, it was a convent and it’s in Silver Lake and I think that’s the same one that Katy Perry – have you heard about Katy Perry trying to buy the convent?
Kristin: No, we have not.
Kelly: You should look it up.
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: You’ve got all the hot intel.
Kristin: Yeah, that’s a phenomenal piece of trivia too.
Kelly: And that was cool. The final scene where I get stomped on was a great location, a lot of smoke-filled rooms, a lot of fighting, really good fighting scenes, fighting sequence.
Jenny: Did you ever actually have worms on you?
Kelly: Yes.
Kristin: [gasps]
Jenny: Oh nooo!
Kristin: Oh noooo! [Kelly laughs]
Jenny: Oh, I didn’t want it to be true for you!
Kelly: Yeah, there was one on my – as I watch it, yeah, there was one on my arm, my right arm, and they were crawling around on those shoes.
Kristin: Ugh.
Jenny: Nooo!
Kelly: Yeah, like having prickly little pinecones walking all over you, it’s really weird.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Jenny and Kristin: [grossed out sounds]
Kelly: There were a lot of them, a lot of them too, yeah.
Jenny: Wow, yikes.
Kristin: What you sacrificed to terrify all of us, we appreciate it.
Jenny: Yes, thank you.
Kelly: That’s right. You’re welcome. [laughs]
Jenny: Um, we have a game we like to play. It’s really simple. The game is called "Vampire, Witch, Slayer" and all you have to do is play and win is tell us if you had to be a vampire, a witch, or a slayer, what would you pick?
Kelly: Well, based on what I know from Twilight and the long lives that vampires lead, yeah, I’d go for vampire.
Jenny: Sweet eternal life.
Kelly: I’d go for longevity. Yeah, I’d pick eternal life.
Kristin: Nice.
Kelly: And a killer night life too.
Jenny: Literally and figuratively. [Kristin laughs]
Kelly: Yeah, yeah. I’m not really good at memorizing spells –
Jenny: Right.
Kelly: So probably wouldn’t make a good witch. And what was the third one, a slayer? Nah, nah.
Kristin: Yeah, too much responsibility.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kelly: Yeah. Not enough sleep.
Kristin: Yeah, exactly. Kelly, is there anything that we didn’t ask you about that you want to share about the experience of being on the show?
Kelly: The after-effect of doing that character has been very strong and it’s been a lot of fun. When my kids were young, I used to tell people that if they don’t go to bed when I tell them to, I threaten to turn myself into worms.
NOTES: [Jenny and Kristin laugh]
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: Very effective.
Kristin: They must have always gone to bed exactly on time.
Jenny: I would have. [laughter]
Kristin: Can you tell us where people can find you now, what are you working on now, what are you doing?
Kelly: Yeah, sure. Right now, I’m directing a play that I wrote at Moorpark College which is – you go through Simi Valley and then beyond that is Moorpark College. And they’ve got a really strong theater arts program out there and right now, I’m directing a play that I wrote. It starts running April 26th through the first week of May, out there at Moorpark College.
Kristin: Cool.
Jenny: Awesome.
Kelly: As part of the student one acts. It’s the third play that I’ve written and directed out there and the fourth play that I’ve directed.
Kristin: Oh wow, that’s amazing. What is the name of the play?
Kelly: The play is called "Written in the Stars".
Kristin: Awesome.
Kelly: But I’ve directed a lot of theater over the years out here, in Aspen Comedy Arts Festival directed up there, and Hudson Theater which is there in Hollywood, and the Century City Playhouse. I really enjoy directing theater, my background is in theater back in New York and it’s my favorite thing to do.
Kristin: Oh, that’s wonderful.
Jenny: That’s awesome.
Kristin: Well, Kelly, thank you so much again. We recorded our episode for Part 1 last week where – in which I told everyone how terrifying this character of Norman Pfister was to me.
Kelly: [laughs] Norman Pfister, that’s it.
Kristin: Yes, so I’m going to be very, very excited to share with everyone. We really appreciate it.
Jenny: We wish you well.
Kelly: Thank you, Kristin and Jenny, appreciate the time. Appreciate it very much.
Jenny: Thank you so much.
NOTES: [Interview outro tone plays]
Kristin: Wow, thank you again, Kelly. I feel maybe that my nightmares about Norman Pfister will finally come to an end. [Jenny laughs] Maybe, maybe, maybe. So here we are in the chapel – in the convent, sorry, that the – Katy Perry’s house. We’re in Katy Perry’s house.
Jenny: Right, right [they both laugh].
Kristin: And Drusilla’s tied to Angel.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Angel’s shirt, nowhere to be found.
Jenny: No.
Kristin: No, I mean where would it be. Who knows? And Drusilla’s repeating Spike –
Jenny: Oh, god.
Kristin: It’s so great, it’s so great. He’s like, "blah blah blah, black medicine" and you just hear her go, [imitating Drusilla] "Black medicine." And then "blah blah blah, murderous child," [imitating Drusilla] "Murderous child." God, I love you Drusilla!
Jenny: [laughing] It is really good.
Kristin: Then their blood comes together and it creates this, um, light orb?
Jenny: Yeah, some kind of sonic boom happening.
Kristin: Which my memory of the series – this kind of visual, this light, this bright light shining, I think, happens more.
Jenny: Oh yeah?
Kristin: It’s the first time I think we’ve seen something like it. But I have an association with this visual.
Jenny: Only one way to find out if you’re right.
Kristin: Only one way. Um, "two slayers, no waiting."
Jenny: Nice.
Kristin: So that’s a great line.
Jenny: Kendra’s like, I have the quip chip.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: I got that implanted.
Kristin: [laughs] Also, "switch!" and then they do a back roll.
Jenny: Uh, unnecessary flip-roll.
Kristin: Necessary .
Jenny: Un. Necessary.
Kristin: 100% necessary.
Jenny: [skeptical sound] Waste of energy.
Kristin: Cordy – by the way, I drew the emoji with heart eyes. I drew it very poorly, it actually looks like a creepy man. But I drew it for Cordelia and her gym clothes.
Jenny: Mmmmm.
Kristin: I’m, like, really into the fact that Cordelia had to change into her gym clothes.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And she’s in her little running sneakers –
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: And her Sunnydale tee. Woo!
Jenny: That she uses to work out her trauma by stomping all over those mealworms.
Kristin: And there you go, Norman Pfister, there you go. Smash smash.
Now here’s the thing: Cordy and Xander get a kill, they kill Norman Pfister. Giles shoots somebody with the thing. What do you call that?
Jenny: The crossbow?
Kristin: The crossbow. Willow kills a vamp.
Jenny: She’s like, "hold him steady!"
Kristin: Everybody gets a kill!
Jenny: How great is it that they –
Kristin: You get a kill and you get a kill.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: Everybody gets a kill!
Jenny: How great is it that the camera pans over Willow and I don’t know who’s holding the vampire, is it Giles maybe, where she’s like, "hold him steady"?
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Yeah, it’s Giles. And it pans off of them for two seconds and the vampire is dusted in those two seconds and it comes back and Giles is just brushing vampire dust off of his vest.
Kristin: So great. We also get a classic Kendra line in this scene. Her shirt gets ripped, she says, "That’s my favorite shirt! That’s my only shirt."
Jenny: She only has one shirt, what does she do on laundry day?
Kristin: I mean, guess she wears her sports bra.
Jenny: Maybe she has a slayer robe.
Kristin: Like Kendra would wear a sports bra. She has a real person bra.
Jenny: Uh huh.
Kristin: No offense to sports bras, I only wear sports bras. That’s why I call the other ones real person bras. Okay.
Jenny: Buffy – Spike’s making a getaway with Drusilla and Buffy whips that censer around and clocks him in the head. He falls into a massive pipe organ.
Kristin: And then Buffy and Angel have sweet, sweet romance as Spike and Drusilla lay underneath the collapsed rubble.
Jenny: The rubble. And Kendra helps.
Kristin: Yes. Kendra hel – "And I helped." Kendra helps which is really sweet. Angel is so fucking dramatic.
Jenny: Oh my gosh.
Kristin: Every time he gets knocked out –
Jenny: "Ugh!"
Kristin: Yeah, you get a little holy water poured on you, you get a little blood taken out of you, you can’t – come on, man. No, I’m just kidding. But he is dramatic.
Jenny: He’s a gentle soul. Um, Oz is very cute.
Kristin: Oz is very cute. Willow’s very cute. They’re being very cute. Xander and Cordelia… Cordelia is trying to avoid Xander. Xander is like, "Listen, we have to talk about this."
Jenny: So he corners her in the sewing room!
Kristin: But like, it comes from a good place, you know? He doesn’t corner her, I feel like –
Jenny: No, no, no. He wants to talk about it.
Kristin: Yeah, he’s really like –
Jenny: Clear the air.
Kristin: Let’s be adults about this. This thing happened, I hate you, you hate me. Let’s just agree to disagr – agree to agree that we hate each –
Jenny: I prefer the Cordelia method of just, flight.
Kristin: Yeah, that is your method, for sure.
Jenny: Run!
Kristin: So they hate each other, nobody had wanted to kiss anybody else except for…
Jenny: Except they want to kiss again.
Kristin: Music swell! What is gonna happen with these two?
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: What is gonna happen?
Jenny: Nobody knows.
Kristin: And then you know, we get a very important moment where Kendra is leaving, Buffy has told her she’s allowed to sit in a seat on the plane this time [Jenny laughs]. She doesn’t have to fly in the cargo bin. And Kendra says to Buffy, "You know, you talk about slaying like it’s a job. It’s not a job, it’s who you are."
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And that’s kind of –
Jenny: The lesson.
Kristin: The bow – yeah. It’s like the bow on this whole Career Week. We’ve been in Career Week for two episodes now. And the whole point of that is to put our focus on how Buffy looks at being a slayer. And that it’s probably detrimental to her to look at it as just a job because it’s more than that. So you know, I think they really – Kendra and Buffy, I love their relationship. I think that they really give each other a lot on top of not being – the other exchange is, "I’m a freak" and then Kendra says, "Not the only freak."
Jenny: Awww.
Kristin: Right? Really nice. They give each other companionship. Even if they’re not together, they know the other exists.
Jenny: Yeah. Definitely no hugs though.
Kristin: And they’re kind of like, the yin to each other’s yang, you know?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Like, Buffy uses her emotions and Kendra doesn’t and I think that they pull from each other a little bit and they make the other one stronger.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Which is great.
Jenny: Awww.
Kristin: Which is really great. You know what else is great?
Jenny: What?
Kristin: "I don’t hug."
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: "I don’t hug," says Kendra. Bless you, Kendra.
Jenny: [laughs] Buffy instantly recoils and pretends –
Kristin: Buffy handles it great.
Jenny: That it would never have even occurred to her to hug.
Kristin: No, I love that because you know what? When this happens in real life, if a person doesn’t want to give a hug, usually the other person is horrified by that.
Jenny: Yeah and offended.
Kristin: And offended. And you know what? Back off. If somebody doesn’t want to hug, they don’t want to hug. And Buffy immediately is like, "Right, of course. Hugging, so horrible, goodbye."
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: So that’s great. Cool, so here we are. The last moment of this episode.
Jenny: [sing-songy] Oh my goodness!
Kristin: Here we are, Jenny.
Jenny: I couldn’t have dreamed it better myself.
Kristin: What happens, what happens, Jenny?
Jenny: I’ll tell you what: Drusilla picks Spike up from the rubble and she’s very strong! She picks him up by one arm and then she carries him out of the church.
Kristin: Ugh.
Jenny: Ugh!
Kristin: Romance.
Jenny: She’s strong.
Kristin: We’ve been talking for a little while about romance between Drusilla and Spike and how many feelings it has given us. Jenny, how many feelings has it given you?
Jenny: Eight bajillion.
Kristin: Eight bajillion. Here is a small sampling of the eight bajillion feelings that we get for the romance between Drusilla and Spike.
Jenny: Hell yeah.
NOTES: [Spike and Drusilla’s romance jingle] They got a dark and creepy Ghoulish freaky kind of love They got a ropes and handcuffs Tortured bloodlust kind of love They do, they do Spike and Drusilla
Jenny: Wow, what an episode. What a second part of two episodes –
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: What two episodes.
Kristin: That’s a great sentence, Jenny.
Jenny: I am good at words.
Kristin: Yes, you are, you’re great. Marti Noxon, we’re really happy that you’re around.
Jenny: Hooray!
Kristin: Really great stuff. Kendra, also happy that you’re around.
Jenny: Hell yeah.
Kristin: We have a lot to explore. A lot of things going on in Sunnydale.
Jenny: So much more to come. Very exciting.
Kristin: So much more but that is all for this week.
Jenny: Thank you so much for listening. I am Jenny Owen Youngs and when I’m not watching Buffy and talking about it with Kristin, I’m usually writing and recording songs. You can hear some of them at jennyowenyoungs.com/buffering and you can give me a shout on Twitter at @jennyowenyoungs.
Kristin: You can give me a shout on Twitter at @kristinnoeline, K-R-I-S-T-I-N-N-O-E-L-I-N-E. And you can also find out more about my work with Everyone is Gay and My Kid is Gay, as well as a lot of the other projects that I work on, many of which overlap with LGBTQ communities over on my website, kristinnoeline.com.
Jenny: You can get all the info about our upcoming events as a duo or individually by visiting bufferingthevampireslayer.com and clicking on Events. Follow us on Twitter or Facebook at @bufferingcast and you can also drop us an email at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin: You can support us and our work over at patreon.com/bufferingcast. You can give at the $1 level, the $5 level, the $10 level, or the billion dollar level.
Jenny: Ooh, do the billion one.
Kristin: Yeah, great rewards come from the billion dollar level. But in all seriousness, we have a great family building over there. If you give at the $5 level, you get the mp3s in advance. If you give at the $10 level, we do Q&A videos. If you give at the $1 level, we do Buffywatches with you. It is a fun time all around and it really helps us continue to do this work because this podcast does take a good amount of our time, wouldn’t you say, Jenny?
Jenny: Uh, just a bit.
Kristin: More and more, with each passing week.
Jenny: Uh huh.
Kristin: Um, but we do love it. We love doing it, so thank you to those who already support. Other ways to support, you can go on over and get yourself some new shirts or pins at our store. Go to bufferingthevampireslayer.com and click on Shop. And third, last but not least, you can leave us a review on iTunes. A good one please.
Jenny: If you don’t mind. Thanks so much for listening. ‘Til next time…
Jenny and Kristin: Awoooooooo! [Jenny performing "What’s My Line, Part 2" off the album "Songs from Season Two" by Buffering the Vampire Slayer] Someone attacks me Her name is Kendra Says she's a slayer with experience She's even got a handbook, man Spike and Dru have a ritual planned But nobody messes with my boyfriend I'm the slayer, was alone in the world But now I'm neck and neck with some other chosen girl You're the only freaky thing in my freaky life That still makes sense You're the only freaky thing in my freaky life That still makes sense I follow my instincts Sometimes it gets dicey but we pull through Down comes that pipe organ Think that's the last that we'll see of Spike and Dru You're the only freaky thing in my freaky life That still makes sense You're the only freaky thing in my freaky life That still makes sense She'll ride a plane home She knows what I know Someday I'll show her how that crossbow works