Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 3.02: Dead Man’s Party
Kristin: Hello, before we get started–
Jenny: [yelling] What?!
Kristin: I can also say hello sometimes.
Jenny: I don’t even know what to think.
Kristin: Wow, okay listen. Before we get into today’s episode– Jenny are you gonna be alright?
Jenny: I will live.
Kristin: Oh my goodness. I want to tell everyone that this episode dead man’s party was recorded live in Brooklyn at Flame Con this August. We had such an incredible time. We were able to talk to senior editor of Autostraddle Heather Hogan, Mal Blum an incredible musician and huge Buffy fan and we had our very own Kate Leth there in New York City with us as well. So we have all of these guests ahead. The episode was so much fun to record. The audience, as you will hear, was such a delight. But before we get there we have a couple of things to share with you. First we wanna let you know that on last week’s episode we announced that we would be doing handwritten lyric sheets. We were gonna do five every month to support a different cause and this month, September, those proceeds were going to benefit the people in Houston to help them recover from hurricane harvey. We sold all five of those lyric sheets in three days, so thank you so much for supporting Houston and helping us help them, we’re really excited about it and in October we will do five more lyric sheets. Every month we’ll do five, and that $500 will go to a different cause; we’ll let you know in October what we’ll be donating to. Thank you so much.
Jenny: Also oh my god coming up on Saturday, October 14th we will be doing another live taping in Los Angeles at Nerd Melt. Please join us, you can get all of the details on our website bufferingthevampireslayer.com. It is going to be great, we will have guests, we will have fun, please come on down. Furthermore, if your life is still lacking an "Awooo" t-shirt or a "smash the demon lizard patriarchy" shirt we want you to know that we’re here for you. You can find all those goods and so much more at bufferingthevampireslayer.com by clicking on "shop." Please enjoy our earthly materials.
Kristin: Wow. So those are our announcements and we are ready to jump in here to our live taping of "Dead Man’s Party," which we’ll let you know originally aired on October 6th, 1998 and was directed by James Whitmore Jr.
Jenny: But who wrote it?
Kristin: Oh! Well, I’m so glad you asked: [sing-song] Marti Noxoooooon!
Jenny: My fave.
Kristin: So let’s get into some zombie cats and some queer neighbors, shall we?
Jenny: Indeed.
NOTES: [intro song plays while Kristin and Jenny talk]
Kristin: Do you need me to talk into anything?
Jenny: Just talk in your mike really quick.
Kristin: Hi, hi, hi, how’s it going? How’s it going? I’m probably gonna be a but further – maybe a little bit.
NOTES: [end intro song]
Kristin: Do you– would you all like us to begin?
NOTES: [crowd cheers]
Kristin: Hi, Flame Con, you all look great.
NOTES: [chorus of hi’s from the audience]
Kristin: Oh hello, you all look wonderful. There were a lot of people who walked out of the last panel wearing very large collars. Sort of like Dracula-esque.
Kate: [off-mic] They were Mr. Sinister.
Kristin: Mr. Sinister, of course. I know, I really shouldn’t talk in this room. I’m like, "they looked kind of like Dracula?" and everybody was like, "aww man. This girl does not know her shit." So today we’re talking about a little episode called, what is it called, Jenny?
Jenny: It’s called dead man’s party, season three, episode two.
NOTES: [crowd cheers]
Kristin: We have three guests on our panel and there is dissent among the ranks. There are people who love this episode and there are people who do not like this episode. [Jenny and audience laughs] As identified by their raising of their hands over there. Spoilers in the audience. So we’re gonna jump right in ‘cause we have just fifty minutes to talk about this entire episode and if you listen to our podcast you know we usually talk a little longer than that so let’s go.
Jenny: Just a little. Yeah, yeah, yeah. This is the one where there’s a zombie cat. [Kristin laughs] It’s also the one where Buffy just got back from running away.
Kristin: It’s also the one with Pat and Joyce.
Jenny: Paaaaaat!
Kristin: Just saying.
NOTES: [audience whoops]
Jenny: Pat, Pat, Pat, Pat, Pat, Pat.
Kristin: Pat, that’s actually part of my notes later in all caps PAT, PAT, PAT, PAT, PAT. When we get there, that’s when Heather Hogan comes up, just so you know. So yeah, it’s the first episode that Buffy is back, right? The season finale of two she ran away, she’s come back in this episode. She’s back in Sunnydale and in her absence the scoobies have taken to slaying.
Jenny: Or trying to slay.
Kristin: Right, they’re doing…
Jenny: They’re doing the best they can.
Kristin: They’re doing not nine out of ten.
Jenny: But six out of ten.
Kristin: But six out of ten, they slay, which I think counts as "Hell Math," Jenny.
Jenny: [singing] Hell math!
NOTES: [audience laughs]
Kristin: Thank you very much. Jenny’s in charge of doing any jingle live.
Jenny: Great, great, great.
Kristin: When I look at her, she goes. Yeah, but before we get to the scoobies we get to Joyce. [Kate whoops] Right, yeah go ahead, was that you Kate? [Kate says yeah and laughs from the audience] Kate hooting for Joyce, who wouldn’t? Joyce, my favorite moment with Joyce in this first opening scene is that Joyce puts the hammer through the wall. And this is like– ‘cause I’ve seen this in shows, right? I’ve seen this in television show and movies. And I just wanna see a show of hands. Has anyone in this room been so startled that they put the entire head of the hammer through a wall, anyone?
Jenny: Anybody? Any takers?
Kristin: I don’t mean to out–
Jenny: One! We’ve got one, two. Two beautiful. Two but like gazing downwards.
Kristin: Okay! Two, yeah this person will not look straight at us. "I did it." Okay so then it’s realistic. I thought, I don’t know if people do that.
Jenny: But Joyce is stoked on this mask, she just got a very exciting new shipment in at the gallery. You know, where she’s always getting shipments, and she feels like it really cheers up the room, very excited. For those of you who haven’t seen the episode ever or recently, this mask is just all teeth, it’s a very angry mask. It does not cheer up Joyce’s florally decorated damask comforter cover, you know, soft taupe and mauve accented bedroom. It does not.
Kristin: I wasn’t aware that you knew the word damask.
Jenny: Yeah, what’s up? Also is it da-mask or da-mosk?
Kristin: For the listeners, I just want you to know that Jenny said that really confidently wearing a cape.
Jenny: Oh yeah, I’m wearing a cape!
Kristin: So there was something really special about it. The other thing in this scene, before we move on to the scoobies where I know we all wanna get is that there’s a moment with Joyce where she says– ‘cause Buffy came out to Joyce in the season finale and this is the first time that they’ve been back together. And as we– if you heard– if you listen to our podcast you know and if you’re queer in any way shape or form, and you watch this show you know that they’re pretty over the head with it, with it being a coming out arc. And so Joyce has this moment where she looks at Buffy and she says "are you going to be slaying?" and she says it so like I’m trying to do the right thing as your mom here.
Jenny: Oh my god, imagine if you were in high school and you had just come out to your parents and they were like "You’re going out? Are you going to be gaying?"
NOTES: [audience laughs]
Kristin: You’d be like well-intentioned, you know?
Jenny: Thanks for trying.
Kristin: You don’t understand–
Jenny: Good effort.
Kristin: – how to use that word. And I should mention that we had the distinct pleasure of watching this episode yesterday with my mom and my dad who are here in the audience. Hi mom and dad. They’re right there.
NOTES: [audience cheers] And what my mom doesn’t know is that I took copious notes on every time she gasped or made a comment. Sorry Mom, but you’re gonna be a part of this episode. But we’ll get to more of that later. So anyway Joyce, coming out, the whole thing, then we cut to the alley. One of many..
Jenny: Yeah, of course, you know that Sunnydale is mostly alleys. And like five houses and a school. And Buffy’s trotting down the alley and she sees a looming broad shouldered figure in a peacoat with the collar turned up and a new hairdo. And it’s Xander, we’re supposed to think that maybe it’s a vampire but it’s Xander just being Xander, being all like nighthawk with his walkie. Wearing like he traveled in time, got a 3-D printer, printed out the biggest cross he could make out of plastic, and then got some lanyard and put it on a necklace for himself.
Kristin: Yeah, yeah
Jenny: He looks…
Kristin: He looks…
Jenny: Something.
Kristin: Something.
Jenny: There’s something going on.
Kristin: But it’s a good moment, I mean I love this, I love that the scoobies have been like okay, we don’t know when she’s coming back so we have to do our best.
Jenny: Dutifully picking up the slack.
Kristin: Right, and the vampire wasn’t Xander but then moments later a vampire of course comes out of who knows…
Jenny: Of a box! Actually a wooden crate, a shipping crate, another perhaps delivery to the gallery.
Kristin: Yeah, it probably came through the docks, you know. It probably came through the Sunnydale docks.
Jenny: The old Sunnydale docks.
Kristin: Also in this scene we see Cordelia fighting so… in this part of the episode we will insert the Cordelia jingle.
Jenny: {singing] A+
Kristin: You’re not gonna even hum it? Not even a hum?
Jenny: [sings] Cordelia
Kristin: Yeah, yeah.
Jenny and Kristin: [singing] I love you Cordelia, you’re perfect Cordelia
Jenny: Ahhh-ahhh.
Kristin: Beautiful. [sighs]
Jenny: Great, great, really nice. Really nice!
NOTES: [Audience claps]
Kristin: I was looking for Mey Rude, I found her right there. I knew that– we appreciated that here and you were the next in line for top appreciation.
Mey: I was clapping before you sang.
Kristin: [laughs] Ahh, so yes so Cordelia does a nice job fighting and then there’s this incredible moment where the whole scooby gang is there. They all fall down and the camera pans across them.
Jenny: Like charming dominoes.
Kristin: Yeah! And they’re all like Buffy’s back and Buffy’s like what are you all doing. It’s a good moment, that’s all. I know look at everybody they’re like Kristin’s gonna say something smart and important and I’m like "it was great!"
NOTES: [audience laughs]
Kristin: Moving on, then we go to the credits and then after the credits we go somewhere very special.
Jenny: Giles’ house!
Kristin: Giles’ house.
NOTES: [audience cheers]
Kristin: Yeah, and this– listen, spoiler alert for season three but just a small one don’t panic if you haven’t watched past this episode. Soon we’re gonna see the green mug. We’re gonna see it really soon!
Jenny: The green mug is afoot.
Kristin: It’s not this episode but it’s coming and this is the first time, I think, and I know someone in this room will probably call me out if I’m wrong or call me in. [laughs] I think that it’s the first time that we see the scoobies really hanging out at Giles’ house, right?
Jenny: I think yeah you are correct.
Kristin: Because they’ve been there, but they’ve been there under tragic circumstances.
Jenny: Crime scenes, murders, demon occupying the body of Jenny Calendar, sure, sure, sure classic.
Kristin: Right, but this is just like Buffy’s back and this is beautiful. Isn’t this beautiful?
Jenny: It’s pretty beautiful. Buffy’s so nervous and then Giles is such a good daaaaaad!
NOTES: [audience laughs]
Kristin: And then they all come into the house and there’s this moment that just slays me, no pun intended, where Giles walks [one or two small laughs from the audience]– I like that a few of you actually laughed at that, that’s good. Where Giles walks into the kitchen, and Giles – I would like to see somebody out there make me a panel of photos of all moments Giles has taken off his glasses but for different emotive reasons, you know?
Jenny: Mmm-hmm.
Kristin: Because I feel like we see him take off his glasses in a way he’s never taken them off before in this scene. He’s just so happy and he has this like I’m-gonna-cry a little bit but smile ‘cause she’s back moment. [sighs] I love Giles. Giles has a jingle coming his way soon I think.
Jenny: He also makes this very immaculate tea setup. He’s like, everyone, great news teens I made tea in my beautiful antique teapot with all of my beautiful mugs and also some cookies you probably won’t want them. Immediately the cookies are housed and the tea is untouched by everyone except Giles.
Kristin: Of course.
Jenny: Just a note.
Kristin: Just as teenagers will, you know?
Jenny: Especially non-British teenagers. I don’t know if the teens in England drink as much tea as I perceive the adults– am I digging myself into a terrible hole?
Kristin: Yep, you’re gonna get fourteen emails at least.
Jenny: I can’t wait, I’m so glad that you manage the inbox.
Kristin: "Hello, I’m from the U.K. and I drink tea." "Hello I’m from the U.K. and I do not drink tea." A lot of tea controversy headed our way. So anyhow we have this great hang, did you have anything else?
Jenny: Controverse-tea.
Kristin: Did– what, sorry?
NOTES: [audience laughs and claps]
Kristin: She really does have a cape on today. [laughs] Did you have anything else to talk about at Giles house, Jenny?
Jenny: … No.
Kristin: No?
Jenny: You have a note though.
Kristin: I do?
Jenny: Cordelia’s hair looks great.
Kristin: I know! Cordelia’s hair does look great it’s just we were taping out of order which only happened because we were evicted from our house a week ago. It’s fine, nope, it’s fine.
Jenny: Everything’s okay.
Kristin: We figured it out.
Jenny: We found a new place and moved in six days, but everything’s fine.
Kristin: Yeah, we moved in six days, finished putting all the boxes in our new house, went to sleep, woke up and got on a flight here. So we didn’t tape the first episode – So I’m panicking because I’m afraid I’m gonna talk about Cordelia.
Jenny: Kristin doesn’t wanna say she likes Cordelia’s hair too many times. She’s really stressed out about the frequency with which she compliments Cordelia’s hair.
Kristin: It’s just if I had said it in episode one then I’d be like "Cordelia’s
hair is still looking good." I’ll just say it both ways: So Cordelia’s hair looks so good.
NOTES: [audience laughs] So as I mentioned last week Cordelia’s hair sure is looking great.
NOTES: [audience laughs and claps] Thank you so much. Okay, so then we go to school.
Jenny: We do go to school.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Snyder is… just the worst. Ahh, just the worst.
Kristin: The worst in the best way, though. The best at being the worst, I think.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Top ten of being the worst but what’s interesting. I just did a quick googling and I’m sure a lot has changed since 1998 but there are no Hotdogs on a Stick directly in Santa Barbara which is rumored to be– and researched to come to support or debunk this– which is rumored to be the basis for Sunnydale. Don’t at me, we’ll talk about it at a later time. But I just want you to know that there are currently no Hotdogs on a Stick which is of course where Snyder says Buffy maybe could get a job, since he’s not gonna let her come back to finish her public school education.
Kristin: Right, right.
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: Also, important moment happens here that we must note –
Jenny: [sighs]
Kristin: You okay?
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: You gonna make it?
Jenny: Maybe.
Kristin: Okay. Hotdog on a Stick research over there in her cape. So Joyce says to Snyder before they leave because Snyder’s like "your kid can’t come to school." Somehow that’s okay. And Joyce is like "this isn’t over; if I have to I’ll go all the way to the mayor," and Snyder says "well that would be interesting" hmm.
Jenny: Hmm, I wonder what that could mean. What could that mean for later?
Kristin: Hmm, don’t know!
Jenny: Who is this mayor? What’s up?
Kristin: Just putting a pin in it, just putting a pin in it, is all I’m saying. Okay, so then we’re introduced to the Espresso Pump.
Jenny: Da-da-da-da-da-da-da-da!
Kristin: We’ve never seen– yeah, oh go ahead.
Jenny: No, that was it, it was just a little trumpet fanfare for the Espresso Pump.
Kristin: The Espresso Pump where Willow doesn’t show up. This is an important thing that recurs through this episode.
Jenny: We haven’t talked about how tense it is.
Kristin: What?
Jenny: So tense!
Kristin: Yeah, it’s so tense.
Jenny: Everyone’s so tense.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Everyone’s being so weird.
Kristin: Well Buffy’s been gone, tragedy happened. Nobody knows how to act around Buffy. People have feelings about the whole thing. Willow doesn’t show up. We could talk about it more later. I just need to get to Pat, okay?
Jenny: Paaaaaaaaaat!
Kristin: I just– I was like whatever, the Espresso Pump because my next note is Pat! exclamation point. PAT PAT PAT in all caps. Pat’s necklace, Pat’s attitude. Oh those are your notes.
Jenny: Those are my notes, thanks very much.
Kristin: Those are your notes, and then I say book club, huh? Looked after her, huh? [audience laughs] And then Jenny has a note.
Jenny: Between your situation and reading Deep in the Ocean, she was just a wreck. That’s just for anybody who’s watched it really recently.
Kristin: And then– and then so... what?
Jenny: Just imagine if you were Buffy. You were finally home with your friends. Nobody was talking to you, everybody was being weird. Willow stood you up at the Espresso Pump. You walked all the way home to the Charlie Brown song [imitates the song] da na na na na. And then who should come flouncing out of your house but we have to assume Joyce’s–
Jenny and Kristin: New lover? [audience laughs]
Jenny: There’s something going on.
Kristin: I mean first of all I want to just make reference– Jenny called her her lover yesterday too, and I was like we can’t talk about that in the podcast and not bring up the other time that I heard the word lover used that way, which was in The L Word. Did anybody– right? My name’s Diane, is it Diane Denbo?
Jenny: It’s Dawn, Dawn Denbo and her lover Cindy.
Kristin: Dawn, Diane. Dawn Denbo and my lover, this is my lover Cindy.
Jenny: Cool. There are vomit bags in the seat back pocket in front of you if you need.
Kristin: Okay, and then just one more Pat note, and then we’re bringing Heather Hogan, senior editor of Autostraddle– you can make your way up here, Heather.
Jenny: Come on up, Heather. [audience claps]
Kristin: I want you to weigh in on this: we see Pat spewing all her Pat stuff, and then we go inside Buffy’s house and Joyce, the first fucking thing (sorry language!) That we hear out of Joyce’s mouth is "I met her at book club." Let me tell you what happens when you’re trying to hide something. You say "uh, I’m gonna tell her we met at book club, you’re gonna tell her we met at book club, okay great" and then like dummies you just both say "we met at book club, and that’s what happened." Heather?
Heather: I just wanna say that Dawn Denbo is one of the greatest L Word characters of all time. Dawn Denbo has the second greatest L Word line ever which is "You messed with the wrong bitch, bitch." Anyway, Pat. [all laugh]
Kristin: Pat.
Heather: And Joyce. I came to Buffy via fanfiction before I watched the show. [laughing] It’s so messed up, but anyway I was reading a lot of Willow and her person fanfiction and then Buffy and a character who you will soon meet next episode fiction.
Kristin: Yeaaahhhh.
Heather: Jenny just grabbed my shoulder [laughs]– And a lot of Pat and Joyce fanfiction. [laughing hard] There’s so much Pat and Joyce fanfiction, so I thought they were like a real couple. [audience laughs]
Kristin: Heather, they are!
Heather: [laughing and struggling to speak] So when I got to this episode I really thought they were a legit lesbian couple. So at the end of the episode I don’t mean to spoil this but Pat definitely dies. And it’s just like... what?
Jenny: Can you quantify for us how much available Pat Joyce fanfiction there is on the internet? [audience laughs]
Heather: Hundreds and hundreds of them.
Kristin: What? Wait what was the answer?
Jenny: Hundreds and hundreds!
Heather: Yes, there’s definitely more Pat and Joyce than Joyce and anyone else.
Kristin: Wow, more than Joyce and Giles?
Heather: Yes, more than Joyce and Giles.
Kristin: Wow, incredible.
Heather: So for the whole time I’m watching the show I just kept waiting for Pat to come back. [audience laughs]
Jenny: Buddy, no!
Heather: Yes, Pat the original Lexa.
Kristin: I was gonna say, yeah! [audience groans]
Heather: Oh god, wrong room, wrong room!
Kristin: That’s so sad Heather.
Heather: Anyway. But like in my heart they will go on.
Kristin: I mean, let’s just– here’s the thing. Sometimes we go in order, sometimes we don’t, let’s just stay on Pat and Joyce for a second. Because it’s not just this moment with the book club.
Heather: No, it’s absolutely not.
Kristin: It’s not! –go ahead–
Jenny: Later in the kitchen with the schnapps and the extended eye contact!
Heather: And also the schnapps, there’s an entire party with a full band happening in this house and Pat and Joyce are in the kitchen with the schnapps.
Kristin: They don’t care.
Heather: They don’t care.
Kristin: No, Joyce doesn’t care at all, her house is being destroyed.
Heather: Absolutely destroyed.
Kristin: And she’s like "anyway, so Pat… tell me more about that book we’re gonna read next week," you know? Come on!
Heather: Yeah, they process more than most couples on TV ever.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Wow.
Heather: Yeah, coach and Tammy Taylor level like…
Kristin: Ahh! Heather with the references up here.
Heather: I can’t help it.
Kristin: Just all over the place.
Heather: Yeah, Pat’s– she’s pretty precious to me.
Kristin: Yeah, she’s important, she’s an important character and I’m so delighted that we got to have you on this episode. [laughs] Heather did you wanna talk about anything that wasn’t Pat or should we stick with Pat the whole time?
Heather: No, there are several things I’m in the minority among the special guests. I really love this episode.
Kristin: Yeah, me too.
Heather: I love when Joyce says "are you going slaying?" because it reminded me of when I came out– after I was out and I would see my family, and they’d be like "this is the first time we’ve seen you since you’ve been gay" and I’m like…
Jenny: Noted.
Heather: No, in fact you haven’t seen me for decades. I’ve been gay it’s just the first time you know about it. So I love that very much. I do love the zombie cat obviously.
Kristin: Ahh, yes.
Heather: So good. The sound effects of that cat… [Jenny laughs]
Kristin: Right, they like went into a library for the–
Heather: This music in this episode is a lot anyway but the cat – it just really is like Charlie Brown for sure.
Kristin: Yeah, lot of piano, lot of single notes on the piano were being played, but also and I know we’re bringing Mal Blum up in a little while and I know Mal is gonna wanna talk about this but like they find a dead cat.
Heather: They sure do.
Kristin: They find a dead–
Heather: It just falls off a bookshelf, it’s just like on the top.
Jenny: In their basement. It’s not like a rat or a roach.
Kristin: It’s a full cat.
Jenny: Something that might live with you for fifteen years.
Kristin: Right? And they’re just like "I guess it must have curled up and died."
Jenny: Well, better bury it and not think about it.
Kristin: Died on top of the company plates, you know?
Jenny: On top of the company plates!
Heather: They don’t even change their clothes to go out to the garden–
Kristin: She doesn’t even dust off the top of the bookcase.
Heather: No, she doesn’t!
Jenny: Nah, nah, no.
Kristin: She’s fine, Sunnydale, welcome to Sunnydale.
Heather: I love– Joyce in this episode is so beautiful because she’s found out that Buffy’s a slayer, and now she’s just on board with all of the weird shit that’s gonna come with it. Like it takes no adjustment whatsoever, she’s like "a cat fell off the bookshelf"… whatever.
Kristin: Joyce wields like fourteen different household items in this episode.
Heather: Oh she does.
Kristin: She’s got like a vase, a bat...
Heather: A bat. [someone from the audience] a cat.
Kristin: A cat.
Heather: A cat, yeah.
Kate: [from the audience] The hammer.
Kristin: The hammer, sorry I– Kate was doing this motion in the audience, it was a hammer. It’s a hammer, I got you Kate. I got it, I just needed a little help. Yes, sorry Heather I didn’t mean to detract.
Heather: No, that’s it. And then my other– one of my favorite Willow moments of the whole series which is when Buffy is like– Willow’s like I had a really hard time when you were gone and Buffy’s like "I know, it’s like hard to be without me" or whatever. [audience laughs]
Heather: And Willow’s like "no I mean I personally have a life that has nothing to do with you. It was kinda ,you know, like I’m dating in an intense way, I did a little magic." You know? I just love Willow in this episode ‘cause she’s like coming into her own and it’s never easy to stand up against the chosen one and be like "I have feelings too."
Kristin: Yeah, right like "I know that your boyfriend’s soul and whatever. I know that the world almost ended and you died last season and whatever. But I have my shit too."
Heather: Yeah, you know did Harry Potter ever give Hermione or Ron Christmas presents, I never read about that.
Kristin: Ooooooooooooh
Heather: But I read about them giving him all kinds of Christmas presents, you know?
Kristin and Jenny: Wooooooow.
Jenny: Wow, and he was rich!
Heather: [responding to someone inaudible from the audience] Did he? What did he give them?– oh that’s right. A Chudley Cannons hat. Good job Harry.
Kristin: Okay, I know, you can’t get away with anything here, nothing!
Heather: No, but I just love that Willow– I just love Willow becoming – every time Willow becomes more Willow I just love it so much. And I also love it when she was like "I don’t know, I just knocked the power out on my block it was I don’t know I guess I might be a little powerful, I don’t know. It scared me a little bit." Oh are you scared of knocking the power out, Willow?
Kristin: Right, yeah and Willow really clicks up a full notch every episode in the last few episodes she’s just getting stronger and stronger and stronger. I wonder how strong she’ll get? [audience laughs]
Heather: I wonder.
Jenny: Only one way to find out. [Kristin laughs] Do we wanna address this cat eulogy that Joyce gives?
Kristin: Alright hold on I wrote it down let’s see "goodbye stray who lost it’s way we hope you find it." [audience laughs]
Heather: That’s a great eulogy.
Kristin: It’s just like all we’ve seen of Joyce up to this point is that she’s busy, she’s at the gallery, she’s distracted and sometimes she wields a bat. So it was nice to see that Joyce had some like... a softer side of Joyce.
Jenny: Soul of a poet.
Kristin: Yeah!
Jenny: Joyce Summers.
Heather: Pat really brought it out in her.
Kristin: It really did!
Heather: She did!
Kristin: I think she was processing some of her Buffy stuff, you know, via the cat.
Heather: Yes, yes, maybe.
Kristin: Just a little bit. Wow.
Heather: And you know like once you get into a relationship with a woman you’re just better at talking about your feelings on command.
Kristin: It’s true.
Heather: Whatever it requires at the time.
Kristin: Well, she’s been reading so much.
Heather: She’s been reading so much.
Kristin: Well, she has access to those words. Just so much easier.
Heather: Also I just wanna say that Giles makes one of my favorite jokes since episode two when he’s like – I love it when British people are like [grumbly voice] "Americans" for reasons that have nothing to do with Americans.
Kristin: Right?
Heather: You know when he’s like "oh, isn’t this mask so pretty I’d hang it on my wall, Americans" and I’m like, come on Giles.
Kristin: He really goes hard on it too. He relishes the moment he has alone in the car.
Heather: Oh, I read a trivia that they don’t show the scene where Giles carjacks the car in Great Britain because it’s a crime to do that in Great Britain.
Jenny: Whaaaat!
Heather: So they cut that part out.
Kristin: Is it not a crime to do it here? [audience laughs]
Jenny: Well, it’s his own car. So you’re probably allowed to do that.
Kristin: But they didn’t want you to learn from Giles how to do it?
Heather: Right. Right.
Jenny: He’s probably the most responsible hot-wirer of cars that anybody could learn from on TV.
Heather: And they’re totally cool with all the blood and zombies and whatever, they’re like "well we better not let these teen see– "
Kristin: That you can start a car– they rewind it like I did with the final dance in Dirty Dancing to learn the dance but they do it to learn to hotwire the car. Rewind it again, okay he takes that one wire… [sighs] wow. Heather Hogan...
Heather: Thank you.
Kristin: You are a dream.
Jenny: You nailed it.
Kristin: We would sit up here with you for seven hours if we could.
Heather: Just Fanfiction.net Pat and Joyce. They’re on Archive of Our Own as well.
Kristin: Homework assignments for the room. [audience claps] [Ad break music starts]
Kristin: Today’s episode is brought to you by Care Of, vitamins and supplements are one of the best most basic ways to ensure you’re meeting your bodies nutrition needs. We all want to eat healthy, some of us do but you know what life gets in the way and it’s difficult and vitamins can be very helpful. But it can be really hard to figure out which vitamins to take, I know this because I’m always looking up what vitamins I’m supposed to take and I’m always finding different answers. Care Of is a new vitamins company that’s here to help. On their site they ask you questions about your diet and your health goals and they recommend the best supplements for you. It’s super easy, the website is really satisfying to use, then they send you the supplements that you need in personalized daily packs which are super convenient. Best of all they only use the best ingredients in their vitamins and their supplements. Also you save a lot of money getting your vitamins through Care Of. I know this because I have purchased vitamins not on Care Of and they were more expensive. Fack checked, boom! So if you want vitamins for yourself, so that you can stay healthy for all of the demons that you may need to fight. Go to takecareof.com and get a personalized recommendation. Then use our code Buffering and get 50% off your first month. That’s takecareof.com offer code Buffering for 50% off your first month.
Jenny: Today’s show is also supported by Book of the Month. Book of the Month makes reading more fun and discovering great new books easier than ever. Every month they pour through hundreds of new books and select five new hardcover releases that are truly worth reading. You get to pick your favorite and they ship it right to your door. Book of the month only sends books you’ve chosen and they make it easy to skip any month you want so there’s no need to get a book until you’re ready. No matter how often you read, you’ll save money on books you love with lower prices and free shipping. I’ll tell you what, Kristin and I have used Book of the Month club and we’ve had both the experience of finding a book that we knew was coming out that we were really excited about and ordering it from Book of the Month and we’ve also had the experience of taking a shot on something we hadn’t heard of that just looked really exciting that Book of the Month had selected and it turned out to be an awesome read! So if that sounds like the kind of thing you wanna get in on head over to bookofthemonth.com/buffering to see their current selections and get your first book for just $9.99. That’s bookofthemonth.com/buffering to get your first book for just $9.99. Book of the Month bound to delight.
Kristin: Today’s episode is also brought to you by Barkbox. If you’re looking for more ways to spoil your dog which I know you are if you have a dog ‘cause that’s what we do as pet owners. You need to know about Barkbox. They are a monthly delivery of the best paw picked all natural treats and innovative toys to match every dogs unique needs. Every Bark Box ships free within the continental United States and it’s an amazing way to try a variety of treats and toys from local and small businesses that you might not otherwise be able to find. Every box is centered around a different theme and it’s not a big deal but Barkbox sent us the poo york city box. Which I don’t know if you get it but it’s for New York City but it’s poo at the beginning ‘cause dogs and poo so poo york, anyway they sent us the poo york city box and we brought it over to my sister’s house. My sister has two lab husky – giant dogs, okay they’re giant dogs. Their names are Charlie and Canyon. They were really excited about the box. They would have been excited about the box if it had underwear in it but to their surprise when we opened the box it had so many fun treats. It had three squeaky toys, two of which were dumplings inside a chinese food container. It also came with treats, New York City jerky bites, a little chew toy. It was amazing they loved it. They lost their dog minds as your dog will lose its dog mind if you get it a Bark Box. Today is your dog’s lucky day because you can visit barkbox.com/buffy for a free extra month of Barkbox. This is for when you subscribe to a six or twelve month plan. That’s barkbox.com/buffy and you’ll get a free additional month when you subscribe. [ad break music ends]
Kristin: Wow, okay, so can we talk about anything that’s not Pat?
Jenny: I’m wearing Heather’s cape, sorry, sorry. Heather loaned me this cape. I just want to be very clear that Heather loaned me this cape. Thank you Heather.
Heather: [from the audience] You’re welcome.
Jenny: As if she wasn’t great enough already also she loaned me this cape.
Kristin: I would like to talk about a small point which is that um…
Jenny: [mischievous laugh] [audience laughs]
Kristin: What is it Jenny?
Jenny: You married Krusty the Clown? I don’t know. I just– are you going to –
Kristin: Please, please yeah.
Jenny: [clears throat] So everybody goes to sleep and then we see the mask’s eyes light up and glow red of course, because evil.
Kristin: That’s how you know: if the eyes had glown green it would have been a good mask.
Jenny: [laughs] Go!
Kristin: And yellow we wouldn’t have been sure.
Jenny: Uncertain. So this is the point at which we have the first Rose Russo note. Which is "my mom says now that cat is gonna come alive." Called it!
Kristin: Called it, she called it.
Jenny: Amazing.
Kristin: Good job, Mom. I also want you to know that before we started the episode I was like "no talking during the episode because we have to take notes." So had I not said that we actually would have had a lot more material to work with. But she was on her best behavior so she only gasped and said a couple of things. I also wanna note that Buffy’s asleep in bed under beautiful Angel lighting. Did anyone notice that? Beautiful blinds right over Buffy’s bed.
Jenny: Just slats. Ch-ch-ch-ch-ch.
Kristin: Slats, yeah just Angel lighting you know.
Jenny: Uh huh. Yes, no, I remember.
Kristin: On Buffy’s bed. Buffy has this dream with Angel – my mom also had comments about this. My mom does not watch the show, she doesn’t know anything about it but there was a "previously on" and she was like "I know that guy." And I was like "what do you mean?" I paused it, "what do you mean you know that guy?" She’s like "she’s in love with him." [audience laughs]
Jenny: So good.
Kristin: That’s true. It’s true! That previously on–
Jenny: Previously ons really work!
Kristin: They work! They work. But this dream, Buffy’s like "I’m afraid" and Angel’s like, "You should be." It’s just I don’t know, how did you feel about– It’s just a weird little thing.
Jenny: I like the Angel dreams.
Kristin: Okay. [laughs] So great, so the dream happens and then I think Buffy goes down to the kitchen and is talking with Joyce. Now, Joyce calls Snyder something in the kitchen that meant a lot to our dear friend Mal Blum. Joyce calls him a ‘bigoted little rodent man’ [audience laughs] Mal watched the episode this afternoon and texted us as they watched it, like live texted. And that was one of the best moments in their viewing was like "This line is great! Bigoted little rodent man!" So on bigoted little rodent man, Mal, why don’t you come and join us. Mal Blum. [audience claps]
Kristin: Mal.
Mal: Hey, what’s up?
Kristin: If you don’t know Mal, Mal is a brilliant musician.
Mal: Yeah Bigoted Little Rodent Man my side project playing later today Flame Con, what’s up? [audience laughs]
Kristin: [laughs] So Mal you have a lot of opinions about this episode.
Mal: I hate this episode.
Kristin: Why?
Mal: Should I pull my notes up?
Kristin: [dramatically] But why?
Mal: Okay, one, we talked about it already, thank you. Who finds a dead cat in their basement and is like– and it’s not even just it’s a dead cat of natural
causes: it’s mauled.
Kristin: Right, right.
Mal: Something’s clearly been in your house harming this animal and your
response is like "guess we better bury it." One. Two: everybody’s mad at Buffy the whole time and I hate that they’re all like, "Oh, you had to leave because of your metaphorical gay lifestyle and instead of talking to you about it we’re just gonna emotionally punish you the whole episode." I hate it when everybody gangs up on Buffy. It happens.
Kristin: Yes, I do too.
Jenny: Warm room.
Mal: Xander’s being a piss baby. [audience cheers and claps]
Mal: He is, I’m sorry, are you my dad ‘cause you’re acting really paternalistic, brah. Especially– no really when Joyce is like, "I’m mad at you," and he’s like "yeah Buffy you’re really selfish." It’s like, whatever, you’re sixteen!
Kristin: Right? And what sixteen year old gets in the middle of a fight with a mom and her daughter?
Jenny: Does everybody forget that she just had to kill her boyfriend to save the world?
Kristin: Well, that’s the thing, they go on about it because they don’t know that Angel had his soul back but even if he didn’t…
Jenny: Even if he didnt! Come oooooon!
Kristin: It’s traumatic.
Mal: Well Xander did though, didn’t Xander know?
Kristin: Well, Xander knew it was possible but no one knew.
Jenny: Nobody has confirmation.
Kristin: But Xander is a piss baby, is that what you said?
Mal: Yes.
Jenny: Accurate.
Kristin: Confirmed. Xander is sooo–
Jenny: Confirmed piss baby.
Kristin: Piss baby stamp.
Mal: Piss baby, wannabe dad. And you know what? No one is Buffy’s wannabe dad except for Giles, okay.
Kristin: Yes. [audience claps]
Mal: And the last thing, and this really pissed me off. I’m sorry, this is a legitimate thing. Okay this is the thing about the mask is okay [sighs] they keep saying – this is something that Buffy the television show is wont to do. They keep saying like "Oh it’s this mask from Nigeria" and it’s this thing that they do where they’re just like "oh let’s take an artifact and make it culturally inaccurate and vaguely racist and evil." It’s like you know? And not only that but I got lost in a Google hole today ‘cause I was like, this feels weird; I’m gonna find what’s up. The folklore of the origin story of zombies [frustrated sigh] is not accurate at all and not only that it’s not even– this episode– this is also why it makes me mad – it’s not accurate to Haitian folklore of zombieism, but also it’s not even accurate to the whitewashed american version of zombies. Have you ever seen a zombie movie where they have fine motor skills and can crack someone’s neck?
Kristin: No.
Mal: And what do they want? What is their aim? They’re not there for any reason just crashing…
Kristin: No, well they want the mask but then after that we don’t know.
Mal: No, I think they just were crashing the party.
Kristin: They wanted to hear Dingoes Ate My Baby play, is what the zombies wanted.
Mal: Yeah, they fucking rule, I love that band.
Kristin: Mal, you bring up some excellent points.
Mal: Thank you.
Kristin: There’s also, while we’re calling out things in this episode, there’s a really upsetting line that happens in the kitchen, and it’s not "bigoted little rodent man," it’s what happens right after that. Because Buffy and Joyce are having this exchange where Joyce – I don’t even know exactly what’s happening but Joyce is basically like concerned about Buffy ‘cause she knows she’s the slayer now. And Buffy as a retort says "Mom, it’s not like I take the little bus to school." And Jenny and I were like ahhhhhhh come on! So there’s you know, in addition to what you bring up there’s this other moment that they have in the kitchen that’s really unfortunate. Especially, I mean it’s unfortunate no matter what but contextualized in this conversation that’s about coming out and sort of is situated in a place where it would have been nice not hear that. So, no thank you. No thank you.
Jenny: Rejected.
Kristin: Rejected.
Mal: Rejected.
Kristin: Yeah, what was the stamp? Piss baby. Just gonna stamp it on everybody.
Mal: Stamp, stamp, stamp. Joyce is actually pretty good in this episode. I won’t– she doesn’t get the stamp.
Kristin: Joyce – no, no, no. Joyce doesn’t.
Jenny: No!
Mal: Oh! That’s the other thing. Pat. Fucking Pat. I’m sorry.
Kristin: Yeah, you didn’t like Pat!
Mal: I don’t like Pat.
Kristin: Why don’t you like her?
Jenny: ‘Cause you don’t want Joyce to be happy?
Mal: I want Joyce to be happy, but you know what I want Joyce to stop doing? I want Joyce to stop adopting these parental figures who are passive aggressive and are like, "Let me tell you how to parent, Joyce." Like fucking Ted, fucking Pat. Monosyllabic piss baby club.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: [gasps] [audience laughs]
Mal: Like, Joyce go to family therapy with your daughter!
Kristin: Wow, wow, Mal. Callin’ it.
Jenny: Callin’ it.
Mal: Sorry.
Kristin: No, it’s great. Do you have anything else you’d like to say about this episode.
Mal: [sighs] Do I? Yeah, one more thing. [yelling]And another thing! I think, you just came out as the gay slayer, you know? Whatever. If you gotta go away for a summer, not a big deal, everyone.
Kristin: Right? I know. Yeah, I agree. Mal, we have been waiting to have you on our podcast for so long. And I’m so glad that you were here to hate on this episode.
Mal: I should say I love this podcast and I do love Buffy, and it’s because of this that I critique it.
Kristin: Yes, and on that they slid their chair! [audience claps]
Jenny: [dramatically] Then the prophecy which Rose Russo hath foretold comes to pass and the zombie cat rises from its earthly grave.
Kristin: Our notes– my notes just all caps ZOMBIE CAT. And Jenny’s notes all caps YEAH BABY IT’S ZOMBIE CAT TIME. [audience laughs]
Jenny: Yeah it is!
Kristin: Before we get too far out of Pat territory I would like to award the sexual tension award...
Jenny: Obviously.
Kristin: ...to Pat and Joyce. [audience cheers]
Jenny: Who else?
Kristin: No contest on that one. Okay, so we go to school, Oz wants to call the cat Patches. That’s cute. And Buffy can’t go to the school, which is a thing.
Jenny: She’s persona non grata.
Kristin: Yeah. [laughs]
Jenny: That’s right.
Kristin: Yeah, she is, she is. That’s good. Is that latin?
Jenny: I have to assume so, yes.
Kristin: It’s good.
Jenny: Then Cordelia’s all like "nice pet, Giles. Don’t you like anything normal? Like golf or USA Today?" Those are the two most normal things Cordelia can think of.
Kristin: Cordelia doesn’t know, she’s just referencing her daddy, right? [audience groans]
Jenny: [groans]
Kristin: Woooow, what a response from the room. Speaking of Cordelia, Cordelia also has another line– yes Mey, single slow clap from Mey. Cordelia also has this moment in the library where she says "I’m the dip," and everyone thinks this is very funny. I didn’t think it was that funny. But there’s this moment and the reason that I appreciate the dip moment is because it gets us to Oz’s line where we learn– it’s almost Hellmath. It’s not; but it’s close. Because there’s math that has words.
Jenny: Sure. [audience laughs]
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: If a gathering leaves the station traveling northeast at 65 miles an hour and a shindig leaves the opposite station heading southwest at 55 miles an hour, when do they crash and create a hootenanny? [audience claps and laughs]
Kristin: Right. It’s great.
Jenny: Thank you.
Kristin: I’ll do math on that and I’ll get back to you.
Jenny: Thank you, please do.
Kristin: We’ll find out. But we get this separation of party hierarchy from Oz and then we get our first mom gasp. When we see the mask in the book. Mom gasped.
Jenny: Kristin’s mom, not Joyce.
Kristin: Oh, not Joyce. My mother, Rose, her name is Rose. And when she saw the mask in the book she knew that was the mask from the wall, and she gasped! Then we go to Buffy’s house "ding dong it’s Pat" is my note. [imitating Pat] Forget facial night and let’s party! [Jenny laughs] And the only reason I bring up Pat again besides the fact that we wanna talk about her nonstop is because I love Buffy’s response to this moment when– right when she’s at the door and she’s like "Mom!" She’s like "I don’t know what to with this adult weirdo who’s here." And then the party starts. Right, Jenny?
Jenny: It does.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: This is a rude party.
Kristin: This is a great camera thing if anyone cares about camera stuff. There is a really cool through-the-party pan. I always am very impressed with these things. We saw a really awesome pan in episode one of season three. Maybe I talked about it, maybe I didn’t, nobody knows. [audience laughs]
Kristin: Okay. Let’s go. Let’s speed through, I don’t know what time it is.
It’s already 6:43 [high pitched] ah! [audience laughs]
Jenny: Willow’s being weird to Buffy, we cut to a zombie, Rose gasps. Why the fuck is Cordy sucking on Xander’s face? Gross.
Kristin: Okay, no. But that deserves a second.
Jenny: [continuing] Cut to the burned man, Mom. Oh god. [pauses] I’m – you said speed through.
Kristin: I know but Cordelia sucking on Xander is– I’m not okay with it. I just want to put that down here.
Jenny: I know you’re teenagers but there’s a time and a place and it’s not in the middle of Buffy’s hallway while you’re surrounded by other people in a well lit area.
Kristin: Buffy’s trying to talk to you. It’s rude.
Jenny: Mid-conversation.
Kristin: It’s rude, right and then we cut to the burned man in the hospital, my mom said "Oh god." Pat and Joyce drink Schnapps. My notes are "OMG Pat’s eyes, she HahahahahaHA. And then Buffy overhears Joyce. This is a
key moment. Buffy overhears Joyce: "in some ways having Buffy home is almost worse." We all kind of contextually understand what Joyce meant.
Jenny: But Buffy does not.
Kristin: No, so she goes up, and she starts packing, and then the zombie parade begins. And then we get a great scene which Heather Hogan brought up where Giles is in the car. And this is the moment we chose to call Kate Leth up because of how it ends where Giles says "Americans." Kate Leth, our Canadian guest! [audience claps and cheers]
Jenny: [singing] Kate Leth!
Kristin: Kate! Hooray!
Kate: Hi! Right under the fucking wire you guys, hey.
Kristin: I know, it’s all happening.
Kate: Ugh, I agree with Giles 100%.
Kristin: You agree with Giles, Americans.
Kate: Yeah, just on all fronts.
Kristin: I agree with Giles, anybody else agree with Giles? [various whoops from the audience]
Jenny: It’s a good time to agree with Giles.
Kristin: Yeah, yeah.
Kate: I also– and it’s going to be getting ahead in the episode of the recap. I feel like you’re gonna have to do an addendum after this to finish the rest of the episode. But there was a moment later on where Giles confronts Principal Snyder.
Kristin: Yes.
Kate: That I enjoy personally.
Jenny: Yeah, I bet you do.
Kate: Because of my problems where he pushes– well there’s a whole confrontation because he’s basically like "You have to let her back in school, she’s a fucking minor what is your problem?"
Kristin: Right.
Kate: Sorry I keep swearing, I’m very excited... [sighs] And I ran up here, it’s only like three feet. I’m very out of shape. [Jenny and the audience laugh]
Kate: And Giles pushes Snyder up against a bookshelf and says would you like me to convince you?
Jenny and Kristin: Yeeeeessss.
Jenny: And you’re like, yes!
Kate: Of whatever you want Giles. Sorry these always just get so horny.
Kristin: He’s pulling on his Ripper days, I think, for that moment.
[From the audience: Ripper!]
Kristin: [laughs]
Kate: He sure was. Anyway, would you like me to talk about some outfits?
Kristin: I was hoping that you would.
Kate: Now the reason that I am not particularly fond of this episode in this context is that there’s not a lot of very good fashion even though there is a party that happens there aren’t a lot of standouts here. But there are some good moments. Cordelia wears a leather jacket, should be pointed out and appreciated. Thank you. [one clap from the audience]
Kristin: Single clap from Mey.
Kate: She also mentions that if they continue their slayerette duty they should think about some sportier outfits. She does suggest Tommy Hilfiger, which I’m not so fond of.
Kristin: She loves it.
Kate: But I love the idea of Cordelia designing slayer outfits, and I wanna know what those would look like.
Kristin: [gasps] Oooooooooh.
Kate: I like to think about that. Also, and I could be wrong ‘cause I watched this last night very jet lagged and very tired, but I’m pretty sure they change Cordelia’s outfit during the party because when she’s making out with Xander it seems like she’s wearing an entirely dark colored top. But then later she in that weird white leopard print-y mini dress thing. I could be wrong, I was very tired.
Kristin: I mean I wouldn’t put it past Cordelia to have two party outfits.
Kate: To just change in the middle of a party! Right? Of course. Also you’re so right, also in last episode when you said Cordelia’s hair was looking better…
Kristin: Right? [audience laughs]
Kate: She’s growing out her bangs and she went a little darker. That’s what it is and it’s very good.
Kristin: It’s so great.
Kate: Also in last episode you’ll remember [all laugh] that I talked about how Buffy starts this season with the Rachael, the haircut, and it’s already grown out in this episode. I don’t know if there was a break between when they shot it or something, but it already doesn’t look like that haircut anymore, so I mean...
Kristin: They knew you were coming for her.
Kate: [excitedly] She still has the blonde streaks in the front though.
Kristin: Like, when did she get them done? is all I’m saying. Probably again, when did she get them done?
Kate: So cute, so yeah there’s not a lot but the thing that I loved is Buffy’s dream sequence outfit, because I cannot tell if the sweater she’s wearing is designed that way or just on backwards.
Jenny: Ohohoho yeahahaha.
Kate: Because it’s got this cross open back thing and then it wraps around but it looks like that’s how you’d wear it in the front and it would lap across your boobs and you’d wrap it that way so I don’t know but it’s– oh! Buffy wears baby blue.
Kristin: Ah-hah.
Kate: Three separate times in this episode!
Kristin: Wow, really?
Kate: Yes, in the beginning she wears one that has kind of sequins on it and then there’s a sweater later on and then in this dream sequence she wears baby blue multiple times. I hate the outfit she wears to the Espresso Pump. I’m just going on record, it’s so– and I definitely owned and wore that outfit. I’m not better than her.
Kristin: Maybe that’s why you have such hatred.
Kate: There was a period of time where I owned a lot of open backed halter tops. It was not good, it was not good for anyone, myself included. But yes that sweater in the dream sequence and the white pants. And also okay, has to be said because I have to mention it, and I have to ask this at the
beginning of you in our audience: do Americans have the store Talbot?
Kristin: Yes, Talbots, yes.
Kate: Okay, that is Joyce’s entire wardrobe. [audience laughs]
Kate: And I love it. Everything is either linen or it just drapes, it drapes,  and she looks incredible. And so does Pat, they shop at the same…
Jenny: Together.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: They met at Talbots and then went to bookclub.
Kristin: I can see, yeah.
Kate: The same momporium.
Kristin: Talbots, yeah maybe Chicos as well for Pat, I think Pat likes a Chicos a little bit.
Kate: I also– I appreciate the both of them as well. I had forgotten about them when I went to watch this again. I was like ugh this is the dead cat and the stupid party episode, I hate this. ‘Cause so much good is about to happen after this episode! Gonna get to talk about so much leather! [audience whoops and claps]
Kate: I’m so excited. I’m so excited. Oh! The other thing I wanted to say– these are some of my notes, if you wanna know how they look when I actually write them down. Oh! Oh wanna, sorry that I keep jumping around I’m being very like–
Kristin: No, please jump around.
Kate: Were ratings also bad in this episode because of no vampires?
Kristin: Oh yeah, right.
Kate: I wonder, okay because you guys had mentioned that before. It also says in here Buffy in baby blue, Buffy in baby blue again! Joyce looks so good! Cordelia’s hair is really good, she’s growing out her bangs, nice for her. [audience laughs]
Jenny: Nice for her.
Kristin: That’s like a diary entry. Good for her.
Kate: Is Pat the lesbian affair Joyce had while Buffy was gone? Cordelia’s so tan OMG I love her.
Kristin: [sighs] Well, Kate Leth…
Kate: Yes.
Kristin: Do you have anything that you wanna talk about that’s not fashion? We don’t wanna limit you.
Kate: I mean no, this episode is one that I tend to forget because of what happens afterwards and I also really like the episode that comes before it. I don’t know it was a blank spot. I went to watch it and I was like, oh I’ve seen this 100 times ‘cause I’ve seen them all 100 times. But then when I got to Pat I was like oh right [suggestively] the empanadas. [audience laughs]
Kate: For those of you who weren’t here I did air quotes.
Kristin: Yeah, [laughs] Well Kate Leth, you know we love you.
Kate: And I love you.
Kristin: And we’re gonna get you back for a full episode real soon.
Kate: I’m so– one of my favorite ones!
Kristin: Kate’s coming back for Band Candy with us. [audience cheers and claps]
Kate: And if you thought I was horny for Giles today… [all laughing] You’re not ready, alright my entire face is red I’m gonna go.
Kristin: Kate Leth! [audience cheers and claps]
Kristin: I just wanna say that that’s a great t-shirt idea: "Horny for Giles." Just saying, it’s in the vault. Okay Jenny we’re supposed to not be talking, but let’s make sure that we’ve hit all of our points before we leave the room. I like that Giles tries to call the house and nobody hears him because they’re partying. It’s very 1990s. I like the Mr. Belvidere reference, anyone? They were like "A British accent? The only other British person that we know is Mr. Belvidere." Okay right and then we hate Xander.
Jenny: Right, zombies attack we hate Xander. Things are tense.
Kristin: Right, the reason I bring up Xander and piss baby is because what is this a representation of audience? [audience chorus] The patriarchy!
Kristin: Beautiful.
Jenny: That was lovely.
Kristin: Gosh I love you all so much. It’s great. Imagine no one knew. [mimicking] "I don’t know… It’s really confusing!" Oh let me just run through real quick every time my mom gasped. The zombie broke the car when Giles– my mom gasped. The Sunnydale U guy dies, my mom gasped and said, "Did that guy die? The poor mom!" She felt bad for Joyce, that the guy died in the house. When Pat died, my mom said, "She’s dead?!" And then zombie Pat, my mom said, "She’s one of them now, shit." [audience laughing and clapping] That’s the whole list from my mom. That’s good. I wanna give a shoutout to Cordy and Oz for attempting to fight with ski poles. My note is just what the fuck is with everyone having cross country ski poles in the 90s? That was a real thing.
Jenny: In southern California.
Kristin: Oh yeah, I didn’t even think about that, but in upstate New York where I’m from everybody had those but nobody ever used them. But every parent had poles hanging in their basement for skis, so it was good. Anyway Joyce– they go to the bedroom with– Pat and Joyce go to the bedroom. [audience laughs] Right. The mask is there, Pat puts the mask on that turns Pat into crazy zombie Pat, and then people die, they go out to the lawn. Am I doing a good job?
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: They go out to the lawn and Giles is like "You gotta tell Buffy! It’s the eyes!" And then Oz runs out to the lawn and he’s like "Buffy it’s the– " and she’s like da-dunk! And she gets– that was the sound of the shovel.
Jenny: The shovel entering–
Kristin: They didn’t like that.
Jenny: Sorry.
Kristin: Sorry. It’s like being at the front row for something very traumatic. I’m sorry. But that’s how Pat dies the second time is that Buffy does it before Pat gets whatever you call it, she says "I live, you die." And I feel like if I was gonna have a last line before I went, that’d be a good one, right?
Jenny: But it’s wholly inaccurate.
Kristin: But at least she believed it.
Jenny: [laughing] Yeah, okay.
Kristin: You know?
Jenny: I would like my last words to be the truth.
Kristin: Yeah. Jenny’s note is "shovel in the eyes, classic!" And then what I feel like is important about this moment where Pat dies and they defeat the zombies– first of all that poor house, I don’t understand what’s gonna happen to it. But is that like killing the zombies and defeating Pat sort of brings the scoobies back together again. It’s still a little tense but I feel like they just needed to have a moment where they came together uniting around a common cause to be like "Oh right, we have our issues but at the core of it all we’re here to fight vampires and sometimes zombies."
Jenny: Uh-huh, uh-huh, uh-huh. Yeah addendum, little asterisk, sometimes zombies. So I liked that, that was a thing that I liked. And then we’ve already discussed the brilliant ending of this episode with Giles throwing Snyder up the wall. And Willow and Buffy end the episode, and I know it is a little tense but I feel like it’s nice. They’re having a nice moment, we’ve been introduced to the Espresso Pump, we’ll probably come back here again. Now they have two places to hang out.
Kate: [approaching the mic] You guys, you guys, you guys. I just had to say something.
Kristin: No good stay up here! Will you both come up here too?
Kate: [panting] I’m sorry but the end of this episode is almost exactly the same as the end of an episode of The L Word. 
Kristin: Oh wow, great go on.
Kate: When they are discussing all of the different names for a... vagina.
Kristin: [gasps] Ooooooooooh.
Kate: And it sort of cross-fades into the credits and I thought that when I was watching this and I forgot to write it down and I just needed to say it now.
Jenny: Perfect.
Kristin: We couldn’t have ended our live Flame Con taping any better way than you saying and they say the many names for vagina. I think it’s great. On that note I would like to ask the room and also all of our guests to howl out with us. Jenny, do you wanna give us our cue?
Jenny: Till next time! [Everyone] Awwwooooooooooooo!
Kristin: Thank you all so much! [audience cheers and claps]
Jenny: Wow, thank you again so much to everybody who came out to our show at Flame Con and also thanks Flame Con for having us. I’m Jenny Owen Youngs and when I’m not watching Buffy I am writing songs and recording them. You can learn more about me at jennyowenyoungs.com/buffering and you can give me a shout on twitter @jennyowenyoungs.
Kristin: And I am Kristin Russo you can find all of my rants and raves over on twitter @kristinnoeline, that’s k-r-i-s-t-i-n-n-o-e-l-i-n-e. You can also learn more about me and my work at my website kristinnoeline.com or everyoneisgay.com or mykidisgay.com.
Jenny: The podcast is on twitter, instagram and facebook at bufferingcast and you can always drop us an email at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com .
Kristin: Please rate and review us over on itunes, it helps us but it also helps people find our podcast which means they find us and then the community grows and we take over the world! Muahahahaha. You can also support us by going over to our Patreon page you find that on our website bufferingthevampireslayer.com just click on Patreon and you can get all sorts of fun things over there plus the wonderful pleasure of knowing that you are supporting this podcast.
Jenny: Once again today’s show is supported by Book of the Month. Book of the month makes discovering great new books easier than ever. Browse their five monthly selections and get your favorite shipped right to your door. Just head over to bookofthemonth.com/buffering to see their current selections and get your first book for just $9.99.
Kristin: Thank you so much to Kate Leth, Mal Blum, and Heather Hogan, and to everybody at Flame Con. Thank yoooooooooooou.
Jenny: Thank you Flame Con! [Jenny Owen Youngs performing "Dead Man’s Party" off the album "Songs from Season Two" by Buffering the Vampire Slayer] Mom brought home a mask, fresh from the gallery I think it's possessed but she thinks it's nice All my friends are out cruisin' the alleyways Are they glad I'm back, or they tellin lies? I don't know what I'm supposed to do Inside I just feel so black and blue I'm not really in the party mood But the zombies just got here And I don't wanna be rude There's a zombie cat down with the dinner plates And now neighbor Pat brought schnapps to share Mom said that they met at book club Seems legit to me Willow’s flippin out, Xander oughta shut his mouth Giles found the key and hates Americans I don't know what I'm supposed to do Inside I just feel so black and blue I'm not really in the party mood But the zombies just got here And I don't wanna be rude Coming home is hard, but it's where I belong Oh hey here's a shovel, BLAM! it's in her eyes Sorry mom I never wanted To kill your friend Pat BA DA DA DA DA DOP BOP BOP BA DA DA DOP BA DA DA DA DA BA DA DA DOP