Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 2.12: Bad Eggs
Jenny: Oh hey everybody! Before we jump in today, just got a couple things to tell you. I, Jenny Owen Youngs, will be playing some shows this week in the northeast. I’ll be in Northampton in Boston, Massachusetts and in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and unfortunately, my Brooklyn show had to be cancelled due to a fire at Union Hall. Don’t worry, no one is hurt and they are rebuilding but not in time for the show. So, if you want to find anything out about those shows or come hang out and get rocked, you can go to jennyowenyoungs.com and click on the Tour page.
Kristin: Yeah, you can. I’m not playing any music anywhere, that I know of. If anything comes up I’ll let you know. [laughter] Before we get into the episode we also just wanted to say a special thank you to all of our patrons who are supporting our work on Patreon. We’ve had our Patreon for, how long now?
Jenny: Since January I think.
Kristin: Since January, so a few months, and so many of you have supported us at the $1, $5, or $10 level. There’s obviously super fun stuff you get at those levels in addition to just supporting this. You get MP3s in advance of the weekly songs. Something that we keep forgetting to mention and that so many of you have used in the last few weeks, is that you get merch discounts in the store, which has been very relevant to many of your interests as of late.
Jenny: Mhm.
Kristin: And it’s just a fun little space where we chat, we do Q&As, we do Buffy watches and all that stuff. So if you haven’t yet checked out our Patreon page, you can go on over to patreon.com/bufferingcast to see what it’s all about. And we so, so appreciate the support. It is what is keeping us going and keeping this podcast alive and well.
Jenny: Yeah, thank you so much. Alright, here we go.
NOTES: [Theme music]
Jenny: Why, hello and welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast where we are watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer one at a time. I am Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: And I am Kristin Russo and this week we’re talking about Season 2, Episode 12, "Bad Eggs." Stay tuned at the end of this podcast every week for an original song, written by us, recapping the Buffy episode we’re discussing. It’s interesting that we say "recapping."
Jenny: Maybe not this week.
Kristin: Well, I mean, we’ll talk about it. We’ll talk about the song before we get to the song. The song is a little special this week. [laughter]
Jenny: "Bad Eggs" was written by Marti Noxon and directed by David Greenwalt, dream team.
Kristin: Yes, a true dream team.
Jenny: It originally aired on January 12, 1998.
Kristin: [from IMDB] This is the one where Buffy and her friends encounter even more trouble than expected when the eggs they’re given in health class turn out to be prehistoric parasites that take over their lives.
Jenny: [wild laughter] Great!
Kristin: [laughing] I don’t read the IMDB summary to Jenny until she hears it live, here.
Jenny: That is fantastic.
Kristin: It’s good, right? It’s a good one.
Jenny: Oh man.
Kristin: So we have a lot to talk about, about this episode, as always, of course. But we have a lot to talk about in general.
Jenny: Mhm.
Kristin: Since we last spoke, something has happened. The cast of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, or most of the cast from Buffy the Vampire Slayer, reunited for a special EW and People reunion photoshoot and video. And we had a lot of feelings, you had a lot of feelings.
Jenny: So many feelings.
Kristin: Our last episode posted last Wednesday and I believe that the photoshoot went up early Wednesday morning. Oftentimes we’ll post the podcast right before we go to sleep. And so the first thing we do when we wake up is we check in on social media, because you’re all great at letting us know if there’s a mistake or whatever. So I checked in and there were like eight million mentions in our Twitter account and I was like "uh-oh, something happened with the podcast, something’s wrong with it." Nope.
Jenny: Something’s right.
Kristin: Something was right. So, Jenny how are you feeling about this reunion?
Jenny: Just like, so filled up.
Kristin: [laughs]
Jenny: Just so happy.
Kristin: Yeah. It’s very nostalgic. It’s very special. We were missing a few key players.
Jenny: Yeah, a couple notable absences.
Kristin: Yeah. Some of you might not have even noticed some of the absences ‘cause you’re not there yet, but we definitely all know that we missed Giles.
Jenny: Giles!
Kristin: Giles is not there and many of us also missed Drusilla.
Jenny: Mhm.
Kristin: And then something that you might not know to miss yet, but many of you do, where in the eff was Faith?
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: Yeah, I said it.
Jenny: You sure did.
Kristin: Where was Faith?
Jenny: Just around.
Kristin: Around? Doing her thing.
Jenny: Out knifing a guy.
Kristin: Yeah. So we missed those few people, but it was really great to see everyone else and I really enjoyed watching the video of them all reminiscing and talking about their memories together. It was just really nice. So thank you, cast of Buffy the Vampire Slayer for indulging us with such wonder.
Jenny: What a delight. What a great gift to the fandom for the 20th anniversary.
Kristin: Absolutely! And so normally when Kate joins us for an episode she talks about the fashion in the episode. And we checked in and Kate was like, "I cannot and I will not talk about a single thing except for this gift from the heavens above. This reunion." So we’re gonna kick it off with Kate giving us a very special edition of Fashion Watch that is themed around the reunion.
Jenny: Hell yeah.
NOTES: [Buffy Fashion Watch Intro plays] It’s time for our friend Kate To give you the Buffy fashion update
Kate: Welcome to a very special edition of Buffy Fashion Watch, where instead of talking about the episode, we’re gonna talk about the Buffy 20th Anniversary reunion photoshoot and special that Entertainment Weekly and People put together. Now there are a lot of actors involved in this photoshoot and I can’t talk about everyone or we’d be here all day. But you should definitely go look at it and you should definitely watch the special, even though for some reason Giles and Faith aren’t involved. I don’t know, it’s whatever, that’s their choice. But there are some very very good looks. Michelle Trachtenberg is goth now? I don’t know if it’s how she was styled for the photoshoot, but she has this amazing long, black hair and a total Morticia Addams vibe, it’s very good. Joyce is there. Kristine Sutherland looking… see, I wasn’t crazy about her dress at first ‘cause it reminds me of Wednesday Addams? Which – it’s a little younger than I would’ve gone for her look. But it’s so amazing just to see her and to see her with Buffy that my heart was absolutely filled with joy. Sarah Michelle Gellar, of course, looks perfect. She has two different dresses. She’s the only one, of course, she’s the main character – that are both amazing. Cordelia! Blow your mind. I mean, she hasn’t aged more than a couple of years. She looks incredible. Her necklace, her dress, everything is good. Emma Caulfield wears some of the coolest shoes I’ve ever seen. Amber Benson? Is completely killing it. I want every single thing that she’s wearing. I just want to wake up tomorrow in that outfit and never have to change. It will just magically clean itself and I’ll be perfect and everything will be perfect. Also, shout out to Alexis Denisof, who never gets to say anything, for looking the best of all of the dudes there. I mean, I assume he’s there cause he’s married to Alyson Hannigan, but he’s got this incredible black on black on black suit. And I normally couldn’t give a care about what men wear in photoshoots but he looks good. And no one else is talking to him so, what’s up, Alexis? Until next time, I’ll see you at the mall.
NOTES: [Buffy Fashion Watch Outro plays] That was our friend Kate She gave you the Buffy fashion update
Jenny: Fantastic! All hail Kate!
Kristin: All hail Kate, and speaking of seeing Kate at the mall –
Jenny: Oh my gosh.
Kristin: I think we’re gonna see a couple of other people at the mall.
Jenny: Namely Joyce and Buffy.
Kristin: Joyce and Buffy. This brought back – is the mall as rooted in our cultural conscious as it was in the 90s? Because I don’t think it is.
Jenny: No, I think because – at least, growing up in New Jersey where everything was mall-centric –
Kristin: Well, it is New Jersey. New Jersey will be mall-centric until there is no New Jersey.
Jenny: Right but I think the mall serves less of a social purpose maybe then it once did.
Kristin: Because of the internet?
Jenny: Because the internet, because we’re more connected. Teens are more connected to each other.
Kristin: Yeah, I guess a big thing might be that now so many people can shop using the internet.
Jenny: Shop using the internet, have conversations about people they have crushes on using the internet.
Kristin: [laughing] You don’t have to meet at the mall to talk about your crushes.
Jenny: Exactly. Order a pizza using your phone instead of going to the food court.
Kristin: Yeah or your local pizza robot. As discussed last week.
Jenny: Mmm, yes, our pizza robot.
Kristin: But yeah, it gave me a visceral, like I had a sensation in my body with this scene with them in the mall because it was just spot on. I think they are in a mall.
Jenny: Oh, for – yeah, that’s a mall alright.
Kristin: For sure. No sound stage could be that believable.
Jenny: No.
Kristin: We see a Sketchers, we see what we know to be a Claire’s Boutique.
Jenny: Yeah, there’s a Gap. It’s all happening. Then they’re in the food court eating some…
Kristin: Eating broccoli and fries? I couldn’t tell what it was.
Jenny: I thought it was some Panda Express vibes, where it was a noodle dish of some kind.
Kristin: Oh! That would add up with the broccoli for sure. So maybe it was rice and broccoli. Panda Express, I’ll tell you what I loved was a Panda Express. [Jenny laughs] I did and I feel like maybe I’ve even talked about this on this podcast before. But to save money, I would go to the foodcourt to the Panda Express and I would get white rice, just white rice, and soy sauce. And I would take my soy sauce and my white rice back to Aussie Outfitters t-shirt store where I worked. And I would sit on the floor behind the cash register and I would eat my white rice and soy sauce because it’s very filling and it costs like a dollar.
Jenny: Mmm, salty rice. Salty dollar rice.
Kristin: I lived on salt. If it wasn’t that it was Ramen, you know?
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: Teenagers love some salt.
Jenny: I just ate pizza. When I worked at the mall.
Kristin: Well, of course. There was also a Sbarro’s. Did you have a Sbarro’s or was it a different pizza place?
Jenny: Hmm, I – probably? I think we had a few pizza places.
Kristin: Yeah, I think there was only one. Oh, well we had a Pizzeria Uno where you’d sit down, but I think the only sliced pizza in the mall was a Sbarro’s. You guys having a good time? You fascinated?
Jenny: Yeah, having a blast?
Kristin: How’s everybody doing? During our walk –
Jenny: [laughing] Sbarro monologue.
Kristin: You don’t even need to go to the informational map, you can just listen to this podcast.
Jenny: Yeah, follow the sound of our voices to the food court. [laughter] [soft robotic voice] You are here.
Kristin: [laughing] Wow, that was very Welcome to Nightvale of you. [laughter] So Joyce and Buffy are at the mall.
Jenny: And we immediately hear that the outfit Buffy just tried on and was not allowed to buy made her look, in Joyce’s words, "like a street walker."
Kristin: "Like a street walker!"
Jenny: Not very progressive, Joyce.
Kristin: No, not very progressive, Joyce. Although it was harder to be a progressive mom in the 90s. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah and when you’re Joyce and you’re shopping at Everyday Woman, that does sort of reveal… she’s just trying to get through week to week, running an art gallery, raising a daughter. She’s not tapped into –
Kristin: She is. She’s got a lot to do. But obviously we know what Joyce is implying by saying "a street walker," which is pretty offensive, Joyce, is that Buffy wanted to get something that was very revealing. I would like to take us back through time to, like, I don’t know, how about the episode with the ventriloquist dummy where Buffy couldn’t sit down because her dress was too short? I just am wondering –
Jenny: Where’s the line, Joyce?
Kristin: Yeah, where is the line?
Jenny: Or is Buffy pulling a Kristin Russo and changing when she gets to school?
Kristin: Right, but that would be hard for her because she doesn’t take the bus.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: My changing, my rigamarole was on the bus.
Jenny: You would change your clothes on the bus?
Kristin: Well, my changing was from jeans to shorts and my shorts where underneath my jeans.
Jenny: Oh, got it.
Kristin: So all I had to do was take my pants off and I was good. Anyway, so the other important thing that happens at the mall, apart from learning about Everyday Woman, is that we see Buffy see a vampire or rather –
Jenny: Not see him.
Kristin: Lack thereof. Which was a confusing – I was confused with the camera angle there because – my first thought when I watched this for the first time was that there were two escalators and that the same girl was on both escalators and I was like, ooh, what’s gonna be the twist here?
Jenny: Uh-huh uh-huh, right.
Kristin: There’s a doppelgänger – nope. [laughter] So yeah, she notices no reflection, she goes after them into the darkened arcade.
Jenny: She is pretty much hot on their heels but somehow by the time she catches up to them in the arcade, the girl is saying, "This is my high score, stop trying to make out with me until I’ve finished my turn getting my high score in 30 seconds."
Kristin: Good call, Jenny. I didn’t even notice that.
Jenny: Boo! Or it might be her only score and also, thus by default, her high score.
Kristin: Do you want to know what I did notice, which was not that?
Jenny: What?
Kristin: Is how much room everyone was taking on the escalator.
Jenny: Oh yeah!
Kristin: That’s rude. It was rude in the 90s, it’s rude now. If you’re gonna walk, you stand on the right side. If you’re gonna not walk you stand on the left – no, the other way around. You walk on the left, you stand on the right.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: You don’t take up – and the cowboy vamp and Buffy both are taking up –
Jenny: Esca-spreading.
Kristin: Yeah. Which I appreciate that Buffy is also esca-spreading here.
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: But leave some room for the walkers.
Jenny: Please.
Kristin: You know? Come on. So this cowboy vamp, not to jump right into the patriarchy here but like, come on. [laughter]
Jenny: Oh my god, "sugar lips?"
Kristin: "Sugar lips," "giddy-up," he says.
Jenny: Gross.
Kristin: And then my least favorite moment of the cowboy patriarchy in this opening scene is, "You’re a rough one, ain’t cha? I like that."
Jenny: Bleh!
Kristin: Gross. I’m gonna throw up. I hate you and I hate what created you, which we all know is what, Jenny?
Jenny: The patriarchy!
Kristin: The patriarchy. Although I will give a shout out to this cowboy vamper’s special little –
Jenny: His rodeo move?
Kristin: Somersault rodeo move. Where his hat flies up, he catches it and he puts it back on.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: I’m into that.
Jenny: That did look great.
Kristin: The one moment that I want to talk about before we leave the mall is this moment between Joyce and Buffy. When Buffy has now forgotten the dress because she was killing a vamp but she can’t tell her mom what she was doing. Because she is not out to her mother yet as a vampire slayer. And this is one of the first really coming-out-heavy metaphors that’s placed on a scene, as relates to her being the slayer and keeping it a secret. Where Joyce says something like, "What are you interested in that’s not shopping and boys?" And Buffy sort of jokingly says, "Oh, saving the world from vampires." And Joyce is like, "I don’t even know what goes on in your head," and of course doesn’t get it. And I feel like this is really... it made me think of me coming out and other people coming out and how we slip jokes in, or we slip things in, or we say something to test the waters. So I appreciated this as a first step in what we will see unfold into a larger coming out metaphor between the two of them.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: So, then – [imitating the Buffy theme song]
Jenny: Speaking of coming out, then we’re in a closet.
Kristin: Then we’re in a closet. [laughs] I didn’t even realize! From out of the closet to into the closet.
Jenny: Xander and Cordelia are deeply engaged in some serious hate-making out. Hate-necking.
Kristin: Yeah, hate-necking. Ooh, that’s good.
Jenny: They hate each other.
Kristin: They hate each other so much.
Jenny: But they can’t stop necking!
Kristin: They cannot keep their mouths off of each other. I love whoever’s in charge of the music cues.
Jenny: [imitating the cues] [laughter]
Kristin: Very Melrose Place.
Jenny: Mhm.
Kristin: And something fun in this scene is that it starts off with Xander being an asshole and saying, "could you just stop talking, I don’t want to hear you talk I just want to make out with you," which is a classic patriarchal trope.
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: But then Cordelia without missing a beat is like, "yeah, could we turn the light off cause I don’t want to look at your face." And what I really like is that Cordelia is completely nonplussed by – like, she is not affected at all by Xander saying "stop talking." She’s like, whatever, and then as soon as Cordelia says, "I want to turn the lights off" –
Jenny: Then they have to have a conversation about it.
Kristin: They have to have a conversation ‘cause –
Jenny: [patronizing] Aw, ‘cause Xander’s feelings got hurt.
Kristin: Xander’s feeling got hurt. Ah, poor Xander.
Jenny: [sarcastic] Must be hard.
Kristin: Yeah, it’s hard to be a man, in a closet, well… [laughter] It is hard to be a man in a closet, I didn’t – okay. Moving along.
Jenny: So they fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, and then they’re like "screw this," "you’re disgusting," "you’re disgusting," "I’m outta here," and then they reach for the doorknob and their hands touch and the music kicks back in!
Jenny and Kristin: [imitating the music cues]
Jenny: Chick-a chick-aw!
Kristin: [laughing] It’s good, it’s fun. Cut right to… we don’t talk a lot about the editors as we talk about this show, but really great editing, and writing the transitions here.
Jenny: Hell yeah.
Kristin: Where we cut in and out of scenes, and this one of course goes right from that closet make out scene to –
Jenny: Sex ed!
Kristin: Sex ed! And Jenny, the first time – I keep saying the first time we watched it, because we actually watched this episode not once, not twice –
Jenny: Thrice.
Kristin: But thrice. Three times. Three times a lady. [laughter] We watched "Bad Eggs" because we – whatever you don’t need to know why we watched it three times, but we watched it three times. So the first time we watched this, you were like, "Did you ever get sex ed that was this comprehensive?"
Jenny: And frank and direct.
Kristin: Yeah, no, I did not. And I don’t think many people do.
Jenny: Kids are embarrassed, the teachers are embarrassed. There’s just a lot of [hesitant noises]...
Kristin: Yeah nobody wants to talk about it and this teacher –
Jenny: This teacher’s crushing it! Mr. Whitmore, shout out, you rule.
Kristin: You rule until you try to kill everyone.
Jenny: Well, that’s not really him, that’s the bezoar.
Kristin: The bezoar, okay, that’s true.
Jenny: Also, I don’t believe – once we get into Cordelia and Xander using this class as an excuse to insult each other. I don’t believe for one second that Cordelia doesn’t floss.
Kristin: [laughing] Yeah.
Jenny: That was just a shot. Xander was reaching for anything and lying.
Kristin: Yeah, ‘cause Xander’s feelings got hurt.
Jenny: [patronizing] Aww.
Kristin: [laughing] Our Xander ringtone is just gonna be your "poor Xander noise" on loop.
Jenny: Aww.
Kristin: Aww. So right, there’s this back and forth. Something that I love in this scene also is Willow. Willow, overall. There’s a shot of Willow looking super uncomfortable about the sex talk. And then once it switches from sex talk to baby talk, Willow is all about it. No one has ever been more excited to raise a baby egg than Willow Rosenberg.
Jenny: Oh my gosh.
Kristin: Right, no one, she’s just so delighted. Which is fun, which is a fun little character trait for Willow that we haven’t seen. And this is the first time also, speaking of character things that we learn about Willow, this is the first time that we learn definitively that Willow is Jewish.
Jenny: Oh right.
Kristin: She’s gonna raise her egg to be a little Jewish egg.
Jenny: And "teach it that dreidel song." Mm.
Kristin: Yeah. [laughs] Which is troublesome, but also I feel very confident in saying that’s exactly what Xander and probably myself in 1997 would have known about the Jewish faith, was the dreidel song.
Jenny: I just want to mention, in doing research for this episode, that we did know that Willow’s last name was Rosenberg. So it was a hint that she could possibly be Jewish. But wow, in looking it up, I found that Rosenberg means "castle of roses" and isn’t necessarily specifically a Jewish surname. It’s German and sometimes Jewish. Thank you for listening.
Kristin: Hey, doing your research, you know? Gotta look it up. Gotta find out. So, listen, the tiny little moment that I want to call out here. Before we leave the classroom, Xander picks up his egg after, of course, Willow wants to partner with Xander. This is getting a little old for me. I believe at this point – I just feel like Willow would not be investing in Xander in the way that she does, but I guess maybe it’s rooted in the friendship.
Jenny: They’re BFFs.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: If you two and not Buffy are in the class, why wouldn’t you expect that you’re gonna –
Kristin: Yeah, I guess that’s true and she doesn’t know that Xander is making out with Cordelia, so is a little lost here. But anyway, Xander gets up, grabs an egg and says – or no, doesn’t grab an egg, this girl has grabbed an egg –
Jenny: [uncomfortable noise]
Kristin: What are you upset about?
Jenny: I just hate his line.
Kristin: Oh his line is like, "Is that Xander junior?"
Jenny: Bleh!
Kristin: Assuming of course that the child will take on his name, regardless of the gender of the child. But that’s not what I was gonna say, Jenny, you’re pushing me down – you’re forcing me down a patriarchal path.
Jenny: Sorry sorry sorry.
Kristin: I didn’t want to go there. What I wanted to just say is the girl’s response to Xander is one of my favorite things I’ve ever seen. [Jenny laughs] She, like, titters in this way that is so forced and weird, so shout out to that actress, whoever you are.
Jenny: Great weird giggle.
Kristin: So they bring Buffy her egg ‘cause Buffy was not in class, ‘cause of course, big theme in this episode is that Buffy has a lot of shit to do. She can’t –
Jenny: Yeah, busy lady plaza. And she’s got this great line when they hand her the egg after talking about how she was absent from class. And she says, "As punishments go, I guess this is fairly abstract."
Kristin: [laughing] Yeah, it’s pretty nice.
Jenny: Not knowing what the egg context is yet, great.
Kristin: She mentions that she has had trouble keeping her Giga Pet alive –
Jenny: [yelling] Giga Pet!
Kristin: Which made me so happy.
Jenny: Did you have a Giga Pet?
Kristin: I didn’t have a Giga Pet, but I learned a lot, because I – immediately when she said Giga Pet, looked up Giga Pets. And Giga Pets were the United States sort of competition space for Tamagotchis. My sister had, like, four thousand Tamagotchis growing up. I never did, but you wanna know what I did have? Was a Furby.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: And the reason that’s connected is because the dude who started Giga Pet, also did – it was the same brain, same company, same whatever that released Giga Pets, of course –
Jenny: Elon Musk.
Kristin: [laughing] Yeah, it was Elon Musk under a different name.
Jenny: Early AI from Elon Musk.
Kristin: But yeah, if you are not a child of the 90s, you might not know what a Giga Pet or a Tamagotchi is. You probably know what a Furby is. But Tamagotchis and Giga Pets were essentially the same idea as this class is going through with the egg, except for it was electronic. That you had to feed and care for this pet, this electronic pet and keep it alive. And they were all the rage. They were super fun. I think, you know, people – when you’re younger, you like to have things where – my favorite video game growing up was Zelda. And it was because Zelda was the only video game that I had at the time that would continue. Like, where you could save – it would save where you last were and you could continue with it.
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: And I feel like that was a newer concept. Even television, you couldn’t pause television and then continue it later. It was all sort of very immediate and so I feel like the reason Tamagotchis and Giga Pets and Furbies were so exciting to us is because it was an ongoing situation. That like, if you didn’t feed your pet, it could die.
Jenny: [sad noises]
Kristin: And Buffy killed hers and you know who else killed hers? Allison Russo, my sister definitely killed her Tamagotchis. [laughter] Anyhow that was my little – uh, Kristin’s Giga Pet Corner is now finished.
Jenny: That was great. Looking forward to the next segment. [Kristin laughs] What exactly does it mean when Buffy’s going over her nightly checklist for this egg? "Feeding, burping, diapers." She’s just carrying an egg around in a basket.
Kristin: Yeah, I think she just has to go through her check – like, I think their assignment is to go through their checklist so they’re at least cerebrally aware of the process?
Jenny: I think this exercise could really be improved upon.
Kristin: Would you call it an egg-cercise , Jenny?
Jenny: I gotta go.
Kristin: Yeah, me too. I’m skipping ahead a little bit, but Joyce makes a really great mom joke, speaking of me making a mom or dad joke. When Buffy’s really tired and she says, "Did the egg keep you up all night?" Shout out to Joyce! Holding down those mom jokes.
Jenny: Yeah, that’s a solid parent joke… material.
Kristin: Gotta love it.
Jenny: Why is Buffy so tired? Why of course it’s because –
Kristin: No.
Jenny: In the middle of the night –
Kristin: No.
Jenny: Knock, knock, knock, rap-a-tap tap tap –
Kristin: No, no.
Jenny: Oh, is this egg actually – does it contain a baby velociraptor in Jurassic Park?
Kristin: No!
Jenny: No, it contains a long finger –
Kristin: Nooo! No!
Jenny: That turns into a long hand.
Kristin: Jenny, no!
Jenny: I didn’t write it, Kristin. It’s not my fault.
Kristin: Ahh, you guys, I’m gonna go out on a limb here and say – and I might correct myself as I go through this rewatch with all of you ‘cause maybe I’ve forgotten something. But I think this might be the most upsetting thing that exists in the series for me. [laughs]
Jenny: It’s the worst.
Kristin: I cannot. It’s bad. This scene, the first scene is bad. The scene we will talk about, only because we have to, ‘cause I don’t ever want to relive it, [strained] where it actually comes out of the egg. Eww.
Jenny: Bleh!
Kristin: Oh god, I’m so upset. I’m so upset. Anyway, in this scene, the little egg cracks open and a little slimy hand comes out and it goes on Buffy’s [high pitched] face, and it goes –
Jenny: In her ear.
Kristin: [harsh] In her ear! Ugh, I hate it. Oh god. It makes me – like, I’m sweating right now talking about it. I’m gonna talk about my bug thing when we get to the actual hatching.
Jenny: Mmm, kay. Meanwhile, the Gorch brothers are watching Buffy and Angel make out. Tector is maybe in love with Angel, a little bit?
Kristin: It was a little Brokeback, got a little Brokeback Mountain feelings from this scene with the cowboy crushing on Angelus. Of course, they don’t know and they never find out, really, that Angelus is not Angelus, that Angelus is Angel.
Jenny: Mm.
Kristin: Yeah, the Tector brother is very wrapped up in Angel and what he’s doing, and says "making me blush," and then says "gettin’ all cuddly."
Jenny: Uh-huh uh-huh.
Kristin: I got a little sexual tension. I’m not sure if I’m gonna give them the Sexual Tension Award, Jenny.
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: Because I – you want to discuss that right now?
Jenny: Yeah, let’s talk about it.
Kristin: Because I thought that I would give it to – ‘cause giving it to a cowboy – a vampire cowboy and Angel, that’s pretty hot. Sorry, I’m into it.
Jenny: Yeah, that’s great.
Kristin: But then there’s a scene in the library much later between Joyce and Giles.
Jenny: Commiserating. Finally, another grown up on this show I can talk to about my grown-up thoughts and feelings!
Kristin: Right? Gotta get that – I feel like maybe it goes to the grown up on grown up sex. [laughter] Like, maybe. Do you have an opinion? I haven’t decided.
Jenny: Yeah, I mean... it’s a tough call, [sighs] but I think Joyce and Giles can take that trophy home.
Kristin: Sorry, Tector, that you didn’t get your trophy.
Jenny: And he’ll never have another chance. Sorry, Tector.
Kristin: Sorry, buddy. We lose him to the sludge at the end there. But congratulations to Joyce and Giles, good job. Your adulting sex – you get the adulting Sexual Tension Award.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Congratulations. Speaking of adulting, that is a thing that Buffy is not doing in her bedroom, and specifically in her bed, which is covered from, like –
Jenny: Oh my god, stem to stern with stuffed animals!
Kristin: Thank you, I was trying to think of stem to stern and I didn’t want to take the time to ask you to help me remember what it was and you just did it anyway. So thank you.
Jenny: Marriage.
Kristin: Yeah, there’s more stuffed animals on that bed than I’ve ever seen on another bed except for maybe in the movie E.T. There was a lot of stuffed animals.
Jenny: Mm, I feel like that’s how many stuffed animals I had on my bed –
Kristin: Really?
Jenny: But not when I was in high school.
Kristin: Yeah. I mean, I think – I certainly had stuffed animals still in high school. My room was not wiped clean of stuffed animals but I didn’t have that many.
Jenny: Like a blanket of them.
Kristin: I’m not judging Buffy. I just think it’s an interesting character point, you know? And it probably serves on a larger scale to really remind us of the constant duality of Buffy. I think that’s a big –
Jenny: Right, adult responsibility.
Kristin: Yeah. Meanwhile, letting us know – reminding us that she is not an adult, that she is still a young person and I think that’s probably why they’re there.
Jenny: But she’s old enough to talk about whether or not she can envision herself having children and when.
Kristin: Yes, there’s a lot of making out in this episode.
Jenny: So much making out.
Kristin: One would think that Angel and Buffy would’ve been up for sexual tension.
Jenny: Right, they weren’t even considered, by the board.
Kristin: That’s not how that award works.
Jenny: No no no.
Kristin: But they do a great job. I’m gonna give them thumbs up for their making out in this entire episode. I’m into it. You know, sometimes people make out on television and I don’t like it.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, well executed making out.
Kristin: Very well executed and we know – a fun fact, I think we’ve actually mentioned it on the podcast before, that Angel – that Angel. [laughs] That David Boreanaz and Sarah Michelle Gellar would very often and very notably, like, people know this about them, would eat onions and garlic and all sorts of things to pull pranks on each other when they had to do these extended make out scenes, which is pretty enjoyable.
Jenny: Mhm mhm. Yeah, great.
Kristin: I love that idea.
Jenny: Nice touch.
Kristin: ‘Cause I always – you know, the idea of being an actor and having to make out with somebody, I don’t know, it just makes me feel like maybe I’d be nervous.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And it’d be a thing, I don’t know, but once somebody starts pranking you, it takes the edge right off.
Jenny: Mhm.
Kristin: So yeah, making out, making out… oh, did I miss –? I want to make sure I give a shout out to not only my satisfaction with the make out scenes but an especially wonderful part of their making out is when Angel pushes Buffy up against the headstone. Or whatever that is?
Jenny: Yeah, yeah. That was your favorite thing. You mentioned it every – upon every viewing.
Kristin: All three viewings! I just like it. If you’re gonna make out with me in a graveyard or a cemetery, and you don’t use the tombstone –
Jenny: Right right, your god given props.
Kristin: Come on.
Jenny: No, it’s only right. Great job, Angel.
Kristin: So thank you, Angel for making sure that everybody got what they needed here.
Jenny: How about when Cordelia comes into the library trying to lure Xander to go look for Mr. Whitmore in some closets? [Kristen laughing] And Xander’s like, "What’s going on, is it barrette appreciation day?"
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: What?
Kristin: It’s a really great exchange for both of them.
Jenny: Yeah, really good.
Kristin: Their digs, and there’s something to be said. I haven’t really thought this through yet, but there’s something to be said about the way that Cordelia handles Xander that to me, I think makes Xander more palatable.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Because he is doing these Xander-y things that make us feel all sorts of feelings, like, why do you have to do that to Cordelia? But Cordelia always has a one up, always has a retort, always kind of throws it back.
Jenny: Right, she’s ready for it.
Kristin: They’re equally matched, you know, in that sense. In that back and forth sense which is refreshing and wonderful. And I love her closet monologue, more than most things, I do. [laughing] I also really love how she comes in and she says that the teacher is missing and nobody really cares and so she just decides –
Jenny: To up it to "presumed dead."
Kristin: "And presumed dead!"
Jenny: "By who?" "Me." [laughter] Great!
Kristin: And Giles knows Cordelia enough at this point to also say that, right? To say like, "by who, Cordelia?" Can we give our Cordelia her jingle?
Jenny: She does a great job.
Kristin: I just love her. I love her and I love this little mon – she has a couple of soliloquies.
Jenny: Oh my god, the bear backpack one. So good.
Kristin: The bear backpack soliloquy, the closet soliloquy. All in all, she earned a jingle.
Jenny: A+ episode. Here we go.
NOTES: [Cordelia jingle plays] Cordelia ah-ahh I love you Cordelia ah-ahh You’re perfect Cordelia ah-ahh
Kristin: Okay, wow, Cordelia. So right when I got to the "oh my god, we have to give Cordelia her jingle" ‘cause we were so excited about the soliloquies and she has some really great moments. And everyone knows how we feel about Cordelia. I remembered another note that I had taken, I think you had also taken this note, that Cordelia does something that’s super fucked up in this episode.
Jenny: [deadpan] Uhhh. The worst.
Kristin: Good feedback, Jenny.
Jenny: Thank you.
Kristin: But right after the bear soliloquy, right after she has the great moment, she turns away from Buffy and sees a friend of hers – or we don’t even know if it’s a friend of hers. But we assume it’s a friend of hers on campus – on Sunnydale High School campus who is a black student, a girl. And she says to her – nothing else, she just says, "Is that your real hair?"
Jenny: Ahhh!
Kristin: Cordelia!
Jenny: No!
Kristin: What are you doing?! This was upsetting, obviously. I mean, this – trope is the wrong word. But this experience between a white person and a black person that is centered around the black person’s hair and whether it is real or not and how it feels and how you do it and how blah blah blah blah blah.
Jenny: And the entitlement of the white person to feel very comfortable to ask and feel like they deserve an answer to whatever they may ask.
Kristin: An answer to this information, is something that we know, Jenny and I know, because we’ve taken it as our responsibility to learn things and explore race and race relations and things like this. And obviously, Cordelia is a character that has not done this work. And that kind of – it brings me to
the other piece of this, which is: this is a script that has been written by people. And Cordelia could have said anything –
Jenny: To anyone!
Kristin: To anyone at this moment. And so it feels very pointed and very put there for a purpose. Certainly, I do not believe this was put here in a completely tone-deaf manner by the writers.
Jenny: Maybe it was put there to highlight Cordelia’s tone-deafness.
Kristin: Yeah, I think so but it’s –
Jenny: But what’s the context?
Kristin: And that’s the thing, I feel like there’s a way to contextualize Cordelia’s character in a way that is not also incredibly racist. Because then there’s no unpacking of that, of course. I mean, they’re not gonna unpack this moment.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: So even though it might have been done intentionally, it’s still very upsetting. Because if you’re gonna put a moment like that there to underline a character trait, you also have the responsibility to unpack that more. Because probably millions of people have watched this episode and so many of them did not have the kind of education or awareness that you and I have or that some people have around race, and didn’t even recognize this as a troublesome thing. So I’m upset about it. I’m upset. Cordelia, you got your jingle ‘cause I got excited. I forgot. But this is upsetting and this is something that at least we unpacked a little bit here. But I think in terms of writers’ rooms, if you’re gonna put something like this in as a character trait, it cannot just be this stand-alone moment that has no discussion around it. That is not acceptable.
Jenny: [sighs] You know what else isn’t acceptable?
Kristin: Tell me what.
Jenny: That egg! [laughter] Buffy comes home –
Kristin: No, no, no.
Jenny: I’m so sorry.
Kristin: Go ahead, fine.
Jenny: It has to be this way, Kristin.
Kristin: Oh god, I’m so upset.
Jenny: Buffy comes home from patrolling-slash-making out and her egg is all, tick tick tick –
Kristin: No.
Jenny: Tick tick tick –
Kristin: I hate it so much. I’m like, claw – you can’t see me but I’m pulling the skin on my face.
Jenny: Yeah, Kristin is bummed. Instead of poking out its long finger again, this time, the new approach is that it [Kristin groans] pops it top half off and then sproings out.
Kristin: No. Sproings!
Jenny: Sproings out directly in Buffy’s face. Why god, why? This is truly the worst.
Kristin: Can you just pause for a second and take a picture of me right now so that we can show them what I look like while you were talking?
Jenny: Yes. Okay.
Kristin: So we will put that picture up on our Patreon page for everyone, supporters or non-supporters alike, you can go on over to patreon.com/bufferingcast and see what I visually look like.
Jenny: Kristin in a state of horror.
Kristin: A state of horror.
Jenny: iPhone photograph, 2017.
Kristin: I have stuff to say about this scene. But can I take a moment, speaking of things that are gonna go up on Patreon, to say something that will make me feel better to help me get through the egg scene?
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Okay, you guys, yesterday I went to the GLAAD Media Awards. If you don’t know about GLAAD, they’re awesome. Their entire mission is to work with the media at large, the television industry, the movie industry, etc., and ensure that the portrayal of characters is representative of LGBTQIA people. And not only that it is representative, but that when there are queer characters and trans characters, that those characters are handled responsibly and so on and so forth. They’re wonderful.
Jenny: Mhm.
Kristin: I also learned that they work on helping to shape news stories. You know, if there’s – for example, there’s a university in Texas where the student body president was just elected. And he is an out gay man and Rick Perry is an alum of that university and Rick Perry, like, lost his shit and –
Jenny: [sarcastic] Aww. Aw, poor Rick Perry.
Kristin: [laughing] So GLAAD stepped in, as Rick Perry was losing his shit and the whole thing, to help this guy, Bobby Brooks is the guy’s name and the college is Texas A&M. So basically, GLAAD stepped in to help him shape this story as well and got him an exclusive with the New York Times. They just do really incredible work. Anyway, my point was not to talk about GLAAD’s work, although I’m happy to. My point was to tell you that yesterday I was at the GLAAD awards and someone else was at the GLAAD awards.
Jenny: Who was it?!
Kristin: Luke Perry!
Jenny: Oh my god!
Kristin: Luke Perry!
Jenny: Who!?
Kristin: [louder] Luke… Perry!
Jenny: Wow
Kristin: Was at – a lot of people were at the GLAAD awards, you guys, like Judith Light and Mary J. Blige and the cast of Moonlight and like – I mean, there were a lot of people but like, fucking –
Jenny: But also Luke Perry.
Kristin: But also Luke fucking Perry! Who, if you’re a child of the 90s – you know, there’s very few celebrities that make me have a lot of feelings. There really are not many. Luke Perry, every feeling in my whole body, all the feelings. And he came down the red carpet and I said to him, "Hello. I have a Buffy the Vampire Slayer podcast and I would love to take a selfie with you." I said other things to him, we talked about hope and we had a whole conversation. But the relevant part of the story to you all is that I told him about this podcast and I asked him to take a selfie. And he – this gentle, loving, wonderful, nice man was just so nice. He said, "We can’t take a selfie, we have to take a prom photo." And he put his arms around my body!
Jenny: So gently.
Kristin: So gently and he held what should have been my hands but wound up being my arms because I couldn’t move my body, I was so overwhelmed. So my hands – I cropped the photo so you can’t see how awkward I am. But if it were uncropped, you would see that my hands are four feet below his hands just straight down. I’m like, so terrified. But he held me in his sweet, gentle arms.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: And we took a prom photo and only later did I realize that not only had I just taken a prom photo with Luke Perry, but that I had done it at the Beverly Hilton in Beverly Hills , the zip code –
Jenny: What’s the zip? Yeah.
Kristin: Of which you might know to be 90210. I actually don’t know if the zip of the hotel is 90210, I should look that up. [laughter] But regardless, it was wonderful and so that picture as well, we will put up on Patreon so that it’s in a centralized location. I can’t – it made my entire life. I am – if you don’t know, by the way, Buffy the Vampire Slayer the movie, starred Luke Perry, which was the overlap there.
Jenny: And also 90210 used Torrence High School, which is where Buffy the Vampire Slayer’s high school stuff is shot.
Kristin: Oh god, I couldn’t think about anything else for so long. Immediately after that, I ran into Rhea, Rhea Butcher, who you know from the podcast and also from fame. And Rhea and Cameron, her wife, was hosting the entire awards show. And Rhea was like "hey!" and I was like "listen, I can’t talk about anything else right now, I need to show you what just happened to me." [laughs] I can’t, I still am not over it. You guys! Luke Perry held me in his arms! Okay! Now we can go back to the freakin’ bug.
Jenny: Uh, the bug is gross.
Kristin: The bug is so gross. The bug –
Jenny: No amount of Luke Perry can make the bug un-gross.
Kristin: No, no, and that’s saying a lot.
Jenny: But don’t worry, Buffy has great reflexes and after it jumps on her multiple times –
Kristin: No, you can’t –
Jenny: And skitters around the floor multiple times –
Kristin: Stop saying things like sproing and skitter.
Jenny: [laughs] She manages to deftly impale it upon her sewing scissors.
Kristin: Her sewing scissors?
Jenny: I just decided…
Kristin: You just made up that they were sewing scissors.
Jenny: I just decided they’re like fabric scissors from when she was crafting earlier.
Kristin: There’s like – listen, the idea of a bug, a giant lobster claw-y bug jumping on – like, I’m getting tingles in my head – jumping on my body when I can’t see it and I don’t know that it’s gonna jump on my body –
Jenny: And it’s sort of the size, and same number of appendages as a terrible hand.
Kristin: And it just attaches to her back and the only thing that could maybe be worse than that moment, I feel – like, I feel ill, I’m not – I can’t. I’m upset. Is when she has to kill it because it’s so big and it’s a crunching situation and I can’t, I can’t. You guys, I had an experience.
Jenny: It leaves a blue stain on the wall.
Kristin: Blue goo!
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: [mimicking melody from The Dark Age] da na da na da.
Jenny: Mhm.
Kristin: I had an experience as a 20-something when I lived in New York City where – I don’t know if you know about a water bug, but water bugs –
Jenny: Huge. Flying. Roaches.
Kristin: Oh god, they eat cockroaches and they fly. And if that’s not enough, this particular water bug – I was about to fall asleep, my glasses were not on my face, meaning my vision was blurred.
Jenny: Auugh!
Kristin: Yeah, so picture dim lighting, and blurry vision.
Jenny: I won’t!
Kristin: Kristin alone, just trying to fucking sleep. And I felt what seemed to be a bird fly –
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: Past the side of my head and I freaked the fuck out and I stood up and I turned the light on. And over – so I had these postcards of the eyes of famous paintings which – that’s my fault. I was setting myself up for a horror scene here. Over one of the eyes on my wall was the biggest water bug in the history of water bugs. I immediately left my room, I closed the door. I immediately left that room, went into the bathroom and closed the door. Freaked out, called my friend who stayed on the phone with me for the rest of the night, I will let you know. I never went back into the bedroom until the morning. And I only went back in to grab a couple of pairs of underwear out of a drawer, which was very hard to do. To reach my hand into the drawer, ‘cause I did not know where the water bug had gone. I left my home for four days and made my landlord kill it and cover every hole in the place. And I didn’t sleep well for five months. So I was already afraid of bugs, this is a horrible scene, I have bug trauma. And I just wanted everyone to know. Thank you for listening. My note, in case you don’t follow us on Twitter, in this moment was to, in all caps, psychotically scrawl, "No no no no the egg bug." It’s all I could emotionally get out.
Jenny: A proportional response.
Kristin: Okay, thank you for listening, thank you for being a part of this journey.
Jenny: Thank god she kills it. She calls Willow to warn her. Little does she know it’s actually too late for Willow. And then the cherry on top of the
disgusting cake is that she gets grounded by Joyce, who comes in at 2:45am and says, "why are you dressed and who were you on the phone with?"
Kristin: Also like, I’m sorry but you can’t call somebody’s house at 2:45 in the morning and have them answer. Willow doesn’t have her private number, I can’t imagine.
Jenny: I feel like she does for some reason.
Kristin: Yeah, I mean, now I think she does ‘cause otherwise this would not have been possible.
Jenny: One would think.
Kristin: Right? ‘Cause you’d wake up the family.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: You can’t just call people’s houses at three in the morning.
Jenny: On their landlines.
Kristin: Also we skipped over the part in which we learn that vampires do not have sperm.
Jenny: Or that they can’t have children.
Kristin: Or that they can’t have children, right. It begs the question…
Jenny: What exactly is going on there?
Kristin: What’s going on there?
Jenny: We’ll never know.
Kristin: Yeah, what are the mechanics of vampire penises?
Jenny: [high-pitched] Umm!
Kristin: Is what I wanna know!
Jenny: You wanna know that?
Kristin: I do! I know you think that I’m not asking a question I’d like to know the answer to, but I personally would like to know, what is going on there?
Jenny: Yeah, I would like to know too, for science.
Kristin: Are they just sterile and they still can have sex? And also – like, where does it – where does the vampiric process interface with procreation and sexual activity? I’m just asking.
Jenny: [sing-songy] Who knows?
Kristin: And maybe on a future episode, we can get an expert in here, is all I’m saying. I’m just planting a seed… [laughs] I’m planting a seed.
Jenny: Oh, wow. Oh, boy.
Kristin: Get it? Okay.
Jenny: So...
Kristin: So Angel doesn’t have sperm or –
Jenny: Nor seeds to plant.
Kristin: Or seeds to plant, but it’s okay because Buffy – all Buffy wants to see – I mean, all Buffy sees in the future is Angel.
Jenny: Yo. All she wants... [whispers] is Angel.
Kristin: This is a very dramatic scene.
Jenny: This is all of Sarah Michelle Gellar’s All My Children training.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Is coming to the fore here, the music, the dialogue, the misty eyes, the dramatic pauses.
Kristin: Yeah, it’s all happening.
Jenny: It’s all happening.
Kristin: It’s all happening. Before we get to any more happenings, I’d like to call out the fact that Xander hard boils his egg baby. Which – I’m into it. I’m into the general idea of preserving the egg.
Jenny: Cheating?
Krstin: Of cheating. [laughs] I’m into the general idea of cheating. It’s fine, I’m not upset about that. What I’m upset about is that Xander hard boils his egg and then the next day at school, after carrying the egg around, he is hungry…
Jenny: Wait, isn’t this actually two days after he boils it?
Kristin: It could be. It’s at least one day.
Jenny: Buffy’s had two nights with her egg.
Kristin: Okay, so…
Jenny: So, so has Xander.
Kristin: What my point is –
Jenny: How long can a hard boiled egg –
Kristin: No, I don’t want the answer to that question.
Jenny: You gotta keep it in the fridge.
Kristin: I don’t need the answer to that question. If you are carrying a hard boiled egg around in your bag –
Jenny: In your messenger bag.
Kristin: Do not take it out and crack it open on the sidewalk to eat it casually, as though you’re not eating a warm, disgusting egg! I’m not okay with it! I’m not okay with it.
Jenny: Uh, yeah.
Kristin: So, you know, the trio, Willow, Cordelia and Buffy come upon this –
Jenny: Roll up on Xander just as he is having a moment of horror.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: They go to the science lab.
Kristin: They go to the science –
Jenny: Dissection time!
Kristin: Yes, dissection time, nobody wants to do this dissection. The fucking bug starts coming out of the bear’s eyes –
Jenny: Oh, so great.
Kristin: Which is very, very upsetting. [laughing] Xander and Cordelia have a moment that really probably isn’t worth talking about, but I’m gonna talk about anyway. Where Xander says "capiche." [Jenny laughs] And Cordelia says, "what are you, a world traveller now?" Which I just really enjoyed ‘cause, okay. And then of course, Cordelia and Willow [sing song] back together again! Our favorite lesbian duo.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, just crackin’ skulls.
Kristin: Thelma and Louise-ing it up here.
Jenny: Yeah, throwing Buffy and Xander into the utility closet where they had so many memories together.
Kristin: Yes, they originated the utility closet makeout.
Jenny: Yeah, as a spot, mhm. And they leave them in there with two Bezoar eggs. We find out that the thing that’s creating these eggs is called a Bezoar. Don’t you think it’s odd that a gigantic prehistoric parasite happens to produce eggs that are identical in size and shape and color to chicken eggs? [Kristin laughs] What are the odds? Evolutionarily speaking.
Kristin: Yeah, it’s true. That Bezoar seems like it would produce a bigger egg.
Jenny: Yeah, or a more gelatinous sort of sac.
Kristin: Okay, that’s gross. I agree with you, but I didn’t wanna hear it.
Jenny: For science! Okay.
Kristin: I didn’t wanna hear it, but yeah the Bezoar... information surrounding the Bezoar, I think, is a little loose here.
Jenny: There’s a – yeah, yeah, yeah, some –
Kristin: We’re missing a lot of pieces.
Jenny: There are some loopholes. But this moment where they’re in the lab before they get knocked out and all of a sudden – they’re having a normal conversation. And then all of the sudden, Willow says "oh maybe they didn’t hurt him, maybe they just used him to get to the mother Bezoar." [Kristin laughs] And Cordelia does that creepy bend –
Kristin: Weird!
Jenny: I think she’s leaning down to pick something up to knock somebody out with but it kind of just looks like after the –
Kristin: Thing takes her.
Jenny: The fingers have come out of the bear eyes. Yeah, that it’s using –
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: That it’s like a puppet is getting a hand put inside of it, kind of vibe.
Kristin: Yeah, it’s really creepy. I really liked everybody’s zombizoid –
Jenny: Oh yeah, like Giles and Willow with their middle distance stares.
Kristin: Yeah, it’s really good. Everybody does a great job of being Bezoar’d. [Jenny and Kristin laugh]
Jenny: Ha! I’m Bezoar’d, let’s blow this popsicle stand. Great.
Kristin: We see Jonathan, fucking Jonathan popping up just to get Bezoar’d.
Jenny: Oh yeah, what’s up, Jonathan?
Kristin: Jonathan’s like "No! No! Get it off me! I must go everything’s fine." Buffy here, a moment of inconsistency with – when Buffy does and does not get bruised.
Jenny: Yeah, she’s got that big ol’ bruise on her head.
Kristin: Huge bruise on her head, yet last episode we saw…
Jenny: When she got punched by a robot in the face.
Kristin: With a steel that, like, knocked Joyce out for hours, we saw not a bruise upon her. So I’m a little confused but maybe she has some soft spots, maybe it’s just where you hit her.
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: Maybe her jaw doesn’t bruise as easily as her forehead. Also Joyce doesn’t notice that Buffy has a giant bruise on her head at the end of the episode?
Jenny: That’s weird.
Kristin: Which is a little weird.
Jenny: Inconsistent parenting.
Kristin: Yeah, so right, everybody marches down to the Mama Bezoar.
Jenny: And we see all these people who are being controlled by their parasites –
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Very ineffectively using those tools they stole from the high school garden shed!
Kristin: I agree [laughs]
Jenny: Just: plop… thump. Just lifting the pickaxes up and letting them fall, with the weight of gravity.
Kristin: Yeah, I think the Bezoar needs to have a meeting, a staff meeting.
Jenny: Yeah, boost morale.
Kristin: Boost morale and productivity, I think.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah. We need some spreadsheets.
Kristin: I’m very upset about the – I’m more upset about the bugs, but I’m mostly upset about the mama – or less upset, but still upset about the Mama Bezoar’s eyeball.
Jenny: Terrible eyeball!
Kristin: Terrible, sticky, wet, eyeball that pops open. Then of course –
Jenny: Guys, I love Tector!
Kristin: Yeah, Tector’s sweet.
Jenny: Tector’s a dream.
Kristin: [imitates Tector] "Hello, hello there," he says.
Jenny: He just wants to be loved, I think.
Kristin: He does. He’s very – and he loves his brother so much.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Like, they have a very interesting – what’s their name? Their last name?
Jenny: Um, Gorch.
Kristin: The Gorch Brothers
Jenny: Lyle and Tector.
Kristin: Yeah. I just love the idea of these, like, outlaw brothers who get turned into vampires so they get to play-fight like brothers forever.
Jenny: They love punching each other in the face.
Kristin: They love it.
Jenny: Also, there's a great moment when they found Buffy and she’s like, "Ugh, I'm in the middle of trying to deal with this Bezoar, do I have to fight you right now?" And she punches or kicks Tector. And then Lyle’s response, he has – I mean, I don't know how many times I’ve heard someone say this
outloud. But I feel like it’s been a lot of times. The: [imitates Lyle in a gravely cowboy accent] "Hey, that's my brother!"
Kristin: Oh yeah. [laughs]
Jenny: Like, in that voice, with that accent and that meaning...
Kristin: Yeah, totally.
Jenny: Lyle, in his way, also really cares about Tector.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And is so mad when the Bezoar just eats him right up.
Kristin: So, I mean, it's a sad thing. I’m not thrilled that the brothers have to be separated. I know they’re bad, but like, you know. They’re not as bad as the Bezoar, I’ll tell you what.
Jenny: Yeah, that’s [makes a grossed-out noise].
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: True. Are we gonna talk about the fact that Xander punches Cordelia?
Kristin: Yeah, yeah. There’s a lot to talk – you know, I didn’t think we were gonna have a lot to talk about in this episode. But yet, here we are. Still having more to talk about –
Jenny: Just, so many –
Kristin: Racism, and fucking – God...
Jenny: Problematic little gopher holes that we keep getting our ankles stuck in.
Kristin: And it – you know, unfortunately I can’t talk about it briefly because I have a lot of complicated feelings. Because this is not a show where we don’t see women get hit by men.
Jenny: And women get hit by women, and men get hit by men – I mean, there's just a lot of fighting going on.
Kristin: Hitting – you know, the gender barriers around hitting, are very loose in Buffy. And we’ve seen Buffy get clocked by many a man. You know, just Ted, last episode, but that was upsetting. But there’s a particular thing happening here with Cordelia and Xander, and the scene is weird. Like, it's not – Cordelia doesn’t seem like a huge threat to Xander. To me, right? Did you feel like…?
Jenny: Right, I felt it was more like, he was trying to handle her without being physical…
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: And then she punched him in the spot where he’d already been hit in the head.
Kristin: Yeah
Jenny: And he just, like, loses it.
Kristin: Yeah. It was just – and I don’t – ‘cause I know a lot of you really sort of pay attention to our treatment of Xander. Some of you are cheering, just echo –
Jenny: The stadium is full of our supporters.
Kristin: The stadium is full of our supporters, but also there are a lot of people who are like, "hey, don’t lay on more than you should to Xander." And I just wanna say that this scene is weird. It’s not just this, he’s threatened and so he hits her. And it’s also not a very overt, he wanted to hit her or – but it occupies this middle space. And I can't quite figure out why they had to do this.
Jenny: Yeah, well, they’ve also been antagonizing each other all episode. The friction is palpable, and also, I mean, he just knocked somebody else who was possessed by the Bezoar parasite out, right?
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: And that was an effective way of eliminating that person until Buffy can handle whatever’s getting handled.
Kristin: Totally, and he’s been knocked out. I mean, Cordelia – the last he saw Cordelia, Cordelia knocked him completely out, so you know –
Jenny: Oh, is it payback?
Kristin: Right. I mean, it certainly –
Jenny: I mean, they have been going jab for jab metaphorically all episode.
Kristin: They have, they have. So you know, I don’t know. I don’t know that we have a statement or a claim on this scene, apart from just kind of saying, like, hey, this thing happened, it made us both feel really weird…
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: There was a lot in it and there’s a lot you could say about it from a lot of angles. And what’s interesting is that they end the episode with Xander being the one who has gotten hit by everyone. Right, they don’t talk about Cordelia getting hit.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: And Cordelia does have a great moment where she’s like, "did I hit you? Okay, good. Not that I wanted to hit you, but I just didn’t want to get left out." [laughter] "I wanted to do what everybody else did, which was hit Xander."
Jenny: Great, great.
Kristin: But it’s just interesting. It’s just, you know, a thing we have to talk about. A thing that we don’t have to talk about, but that I’m gonna say anyway, is "neural clamping."
Jenny: What a bummer!
Kristin: That’s a combination of words I don’t like. [slowly] Neural clamping.
Jenny: I don’t wish to be neurally clamped.
Kristin: [sing-songy] No!
Jenny: The idea of being out of control of one's functions – that’s like, at the root of real horror for me.
Kristin: Oh, yeah.
Jenny: You know, especially paras – ugh. Y'all should check the Radiolab episode about parasites. [makes grossed-out sounds]
Kristin: [giggles]
Jenny: That’s all I’ll say.
Kristin: Is that your summary? That’s your summary about the episode?
Jenny: It’ll bum – yeah, that’s exactly how it will make you feel. You know what I want to say?
Kristin: What do you want to say, Jenny?
Jenny: Buffy crawling up out –
Kristin: Wait! I have one thing to say, because I want to talk about that too.
Jenny: Okay. I accept that.
Kristin: And I just have a tiny little thing before we get to – ‘cause that’s the last thing I want to talk about. Is what I would like to refer to as the "Giles Ballet."
Jenny: [laughing] Oh, so beautiful!
Kristin: It's so beautiful.
Jenny: So beautifully choreographed.
Kristin: If you – you should go back, if you didn't get to appreciate the Giles ballet, to the fight scene with the Bezoar and the cowboys and the whole thing.
Jenny: That’s some Martha Graham shit, yeah
Kristin: And watch – just watch Giles [laughing]. He so delicately ballets to one – sashays, one might say –
Jenny: Forward, and then back.
Kristin: Forward and then back, and then his entire ballet routine culminates when the Bezoar dies, and the babies fall off of them and they all collapse. Giles crosses his legs and does this, like, beautiful ballet fall move.
Jenny: Just a dream crumple.
Kristin: So don't miss it. I hope, you know, tickets are free to the Giles ballet. Just go back and check that out. Okay, now, go ahead.
Jenny: Okay, so we don’t actually see exactly what happens, but what we assume is that Buffy is tentacled and dragged into maybe the mouth of the Bezoar –
Kristin: Yeah!
Jenny: And then she pickaxe her way out from the inside and emerges in a not-quite-enough goo, I think, proportionally –
Kristin: Oh, but I love it. I think it’s great. It’s visually beautiful.
Jenny: But it is great! She’s covered in gunk.
Kristin: Yeah. Looking hot as all get out.
Jenny: Yeah. Give me a girl who just pickaxed her way from out from inside a monster.
Kristin: Yes! Yeah!
Jenny: Any day!
Kristin: Any day.
Jenny: And then give her a bruise on her head. Uh!
Kristin: [laughs] She has battled, she has won, and she is looking good. And you know what makes her look – the icing on this hot cake?
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: Hot cake, by the way, I’m sorry. I don’t know, I got carried away. But the icing on this cake is that, not only does she look so great, having pickaxed her way out of the belly of the beast, but she looks at the cowboy.
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: And he looks at her, and says, "yeah, I’m good."
Jenny: Oh yeah, it’s over.
Kristin: "I’m – I understand now that you are one million times more powerful than my sorry ass, and I’m gonna run away." Whew!
Jenny: Yeah. You know who Buffy is not more powerful than?
Kristin: Who?
Jenny: [menacingly] Joyce! Now she's even more grounded than she was before.
Kristin: She’s so grounded. But you know, she doesn’t care about being grounded at all.
Jenny: ‘Cause she can just make out with Angel...
Kristin: Through the window...
Jenny: Over her windowsill.
Kristin: Forever. I could watch the two of them make out all day.
Jenny: I...
Kristin: You know, the only thing that would have made it better is if they made out while she was still covered in the black goo.
Jenny: Mmmm, that would have been ideal.
Kristin: Yeah, it would have been good. So...
Jenny: Perhaps in a future episode.
Kristin: Perhaps, perhaps. [laughing] So, wow. "Bad Eggs."
Jenny: What an episode.
Kristin: It brought out more in us than I thought it was gonna bring out.
Jenny: Ditto.
Kristin: I didn’t think that a lot was going to come out of this episode, and here we are, having just chatted about all sort – all manner –
Jenny: All manner of whatnots.
Kristin: Yeah. One thing I wanna say before we round the bend into our song, and all of that good stuff, is I would like to talk about the song for just a minute.
Jenny: [laughs] Oh, yeah....
Kristin: We – you know, we can do whatever we want with these songs.
Jenny: Yes, we can.
Kristin: We can do whatever we want, but we have been giving you a particular thing, a particular length and a particular amount of words.
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: For the most part up until this point. But we were struck by a certain kind of inspiration from this episode. And so the song that you will get today is a little shorter.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Has a couple less words, but...
Jenny: We just got tickled.
Kristin: I think – yeah, we were both too tickled to not allow it to be what it desired to be.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: So we hope that you will enjoy it as much as we do.
Jenny: Please.
Kristin: Please.
Jenny: And Kristin?
Kristin: Mmhm?
Jenny: Are you gonna put up on Patreon, maybe for all patrons, the two videos of the inception of this song?
Kristin: Yes, I will. Wow, there's gonna be a lot on Patreon. We’ll stagger this throughout the week.
Jenny: So that your inbox doesn't get overwhelmed.
Kristin: So that you can get the picture of what I look like when I have to talk about the egg bug, me and Luke Perry, and the behind the scenes creation of today’s song. So if you give at the dollar, five dollar or ten dollar level, you will all get those magical videos.
Jenny: Yeah. Great.
Kristin: Great.
Jenny: Well, I guess that does it for today. Thanks so much for listening. I am Jenny Owen Youngs, and when I’m not watching Buffy with Kristin, I’m usually making hot jams. You can learn more about me at jennyowenyoungs.com/buffering and you can give me a shout on Twitter @JennyOwenYoungs.
Kristin: Yeah, and don't forget to go see her if you're in Northampton or Boston or Philadelphia.
Jenny: Yes, please!
Kristin: Yeah, it’s coming up! It’s like, today! Tomorrow! Soon!
Jenny: Really soon!
Kristin: Very, very soon. I am Kristin Russo. You can follow me on Twitter, or Instagram for that matter, @KristinNoeline, K-R-I-S-T-I-N N-O-E-L-I-N-E. Had you followed me in either of those places, you would have know about Luke Perry right away. Right away. I talked to no one until I got those up on social media. And...
Jenny: She certainly didn’t text her wife.
Kristin: No, I didn’t text you for like, hours. I was too busy thinking about Luke Perry.
Jenny: Uh huh.
Kristin: Ah, anyway… you can also go to my website, kristinnoeline.com and check out my work that I do with LGBTQ young people and their families. I also have a book called This is a Book for Parents of Gay Kids. I personally believe it should be a book for every parent, regardless of if you have kids who are gay or trans or anything. So you should check that out.
Jenny: Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on Facebook and Twitter @bufferingcast and you can shoot us an email at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin: As always, you can support our work on patreon. We’ve mentioned it a couple times in this here podcast. It’s at patreon.com/bufferingcast and you can also support us in a couple of other ways. You can go on over to our store we have fun t shirts and buttons – enamel pins, I should say. That can be found on our website, bufferingthevampireslayer.com and clicking on Shop. And of course, if you go on over to iTunes and leave us a review, we will be so happy.
Jenny: That helps other people find the podcast –
Kristin: It does.
Jenny: Who might not know about it, and it’s really, really helpful.
Kristin: And let's be real, we are working at building the biggest Buffy community that we can possibly build. Made from old Buffy fans and new Buffy fans alike. So, all we can do to create our new Buffy army –
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Is happy, is happy happy happy things. [Jenny laughs] Yep, I’m good at talking. That’s why I have a podcast.
Jenny: [sarcastically] My beautiful, articulate, wife. ‘Til next time...
Both Kristin & Jenny: Awooooooooo [Jenny performing "Bad Eggs," off the album "Songs from Season Two" by Buffering the Vampire Slayer]
NOTES: [bar chords] BAD EGGS!
NOTES: [electric guitar riff] [bar chords]
NOTES: [drums] BAD EGGS!
NOTES: [electric guitar riff] [bar chords]
NOTES: [drums] BAD EGGS! [whispering] bad eggs!