Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 5.04: Out of my Mind
Jenny: Support for today's episode comes from Buffy. Not Buffy the Vampire Slayer, but Buffy comforters. Buffy makes bedding that is earth-friendly and cruelty free. Their latest product, The Breeze, is a comforter made entirely from 100% eucalyptus fiber to regulate temperature and keep you cool and comfortable all night long. Plus they offer a free trial, so if you don't love it, return it at no cost. For $20 off your Buffy comforter, visit buffy.co and enter code "buffering." That's Buffy.co, and enter code "buffering" for $20 off.
Kristin: Today's episode is brought to you by Thinx. Thinx is period-proof underwear that absorbs up to four tampons' worth of your flow, keeping you fresh, dry and comfortable all cycle long. They're wearable, they're reusable so you can also have a more sustainable period. And every purchase contributes to their Give Rise program, fighting for better access to puberty education. I requested to do this ad because I am obsessed with Thinx. I feel that they have changed my whole life. They rule. To learn more about Thinx underwear that absorbs your period, visit periodbetter.com and use our special code "buffering" to get $10 off your first pair.
NOTES: [CHIME]
Jenny: [excitedly] Happy Halloween! [quietly] Happy Halloween.
Kristin: Happy Halloween! Tomorrow.
Jenny: Hello. Yeah!
Kristin: Tomorrow. Or like, last weekend or forever, you know, whatever you choose to do with your costuming is your business. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah. [inaudible]
Kristin: If you have been following us on social media, you know some of our business when it comes to Halloween. We have been posting a little history of our Buffy-related Halloween costumes. We started in Season 3. Took us a couple season to realize [laughing] we should dress up as things from Buffy. [both laugh] In Season 3, we dressed up as Joyce and Giles, circa Band Candy, which was a good time. So we posted that a couple weeks ago, then last week, we posted our Season 4 costume where we dressed up as Tara and Willow moving a vending machine across the room. And tomorrow, on Halloween, we will be posting our costumes for this season. And we got a little creative this year. I think—I think we did a good job.
Jenny: I'm...greatly pleased. And I'm also greatly pleased to tell you all that there's a poster involved. And it's not a Magic Eye poster or a poster of balls. [Kristin laughs] You'll have to wait until tomorrow… to see what it is. But head's up, the first 50 people to order something from our US-based Hello Merch store tomorrow will get a free version of our surprise Halloween poster for free! Included in your package. Wonder what it might be!
Kristin: Wow, what could it be?
Jenny: I don't know!
Kristin: Guess you'll just have to follow us @BufferingCast to find out. Dun-dun-dun!
Jenny: That's right. That's right. [laughs]
Kristin: Speaking of following us @BufferingCast, remember to tag us in your costumes from this past weekend or from this week. And check out Angel On Top, our sister podcast about Angel, you can find them @AngelOnTopCast on social media. They're doing some really fun costume-related giveaways, so it wouldn't hurt to tag them too.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Get in the running for some fun Angel prizes.
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: And… you know, apart from Halloween, we have a pretty big announcement today. Are you ready for it?
Jenny: I am ready!
Kristin: Okay, great. Well, that's all that—you are the only person who needs to be ready, Jenny. Here it goes. We have been plotting and planning for this year's third annual Buffy Prom. And we have decided on a location and on a date.
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: Technically, we've actually decided on dates, because we're making prom a two-night affair this year. So!
Jenny: Whaaat?!
Kristin: I know! Save the dates, this year we are going to be promming it up in Brooklyn, New York at the beautiful Bell House. So excited to prom it up in The Bell House. If you've been there, you know it's a freaking gorgeous, amazing space. We're gonna be doing a live taping of Season 5, Episode 15, I Was Made to Love You, on Friday night, April 17th. And then the next night, the following night, Saturday, April 18th, we will be doing our most epic prom to date.
Jenny: I! Can't! Wait! Do you think that it's just a coincidence that "Bell House" sounds an awful lot like "Hellmouth"?
Kristin: [laughs] Wow. Jenny, you know, it doesn't seem like a coincidence, does it?
Jenny: Our ticketing link will go live for our patrons on Wednesday, November 6th, and then will go on sale to the public at large on Wednesday, November 13th. There will be a limited amount of VIP tickets and bundle tickets, and you'll be able to find out all the information as we have it at bufferingthevampireslayer.com/Prom.
Kristin: Wow, are you gonna sing [sings] "Welcome to The Bell House, ba-da-ba! Welcome to The Bell House, de-da-da-da-da!"
Jenny: Yes! [sings along] Absolutely. Try and stop me.
Kristin: [laughs] So as Jenny mentioned, our patrons get advanced ticketing, that's true for all of our shows moving forward. And there's a lot of other things happening on Patreon, I just want to take a second to tell you about them. First of all, November 8th is the third installment of my comic book club. We're reading the Boom! Buffy comic series, the new Buffy comic series from Boom! and we'll be discussing issues—let's see. We did 1 and 2, we did 3 and 4, and so now we're doing 5, 6 and 7, this November 8th.
Jenny: Whoa!
Kristin: Yeah, so if you're a $5 patron or higher, you have that link. You'll be able to join us. And also, on December 21st, Jenny and I are doing a Buffy Watch, a very special holiday Buffy Watch. And there's a vote happening right now on what we're gonna watch. I want to let you know that there are a few things in the running. Fool For Love is in the running, Amends is in the running, and then also, Nightmare Before Christmas is in the running, as is Scream 2 starring Sarah Michelle Gellar. So—
Jenny: [laughs] A holiday classic!
Kristin: A holiday classic, exactly. So if you want to vote for what we'll be watching, get on over there. All of our patrons are eligible to vote and to participate at that Buffy Watch on the 21st of December. And if we haven't mentioned it, you can find all of this information by going to bufferingthevampireslayer.com. You can just click on Patreon and it will take you over to our Patreon page.
Jenny: Also, we've got a San Francisco live show coming up on December 6th. Tickets are on our website. There's still a handful available, so if you wanna be at that show, snag one before they are gone. You can find that on our Events page.
Kristin: Yes, this is probably not going to be a show where you can walk up on the 6th and snag a ticket, so you wanna get those ahead of time. Jenny, the only thing spookier than not being able to get a ticket to our San Francisco show... [both laugh] is Spooky News!
NOTES: [SPOOKY NEWS jingle plays] Spooky news!
Kristin: Okay so, Jenny, here's the deal. It's Halloween, an extra spooky time of year.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: But at this one particular house in Des Moines, Iowa, they had Halloween a little early when their basement filled with five inches of blood. So...
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah.
Jenny: Hell yeah!
Kristin: Speaking of floods, our email inbox and our Twitter account where flooded with this story. [Jenny laughs] As a matter of fact, it's the first time that I've ever done Spooky News without the news story up in front of me. That's how many times I read about—
Jenny: Wow!
Kristin: The blood in the basement.
Jenny: People are on the lookout! How thoughtful.
Kristin: Yes. Thankfully, they are not a house that's built on top of or near to a cemetery or graveyard.
Jenny: Whew.
Kristin: They're a house that's next to a meat locker. Sorry, vegans, sorry, vegetarians. But apparently, this was a case of clogged pipes next to a meat locker. And, wow, yeah. Could you imagine opening the door to your basement and just seeing five—it's not even like it was a small amount of blood. Like, five inches of blood? So much blood.
Jenny: [infomercial voice] Has this ever happened to you? [normal voice] Now, here's a way that Spike could make himself useful in his new state.
Kristin: Oh my god, yeah. Spike would have been so excited.
Jenny: You know? Just hoovering up—wet vac'ing up some flood basement blood.
Kristin: [laughs] So Halloween Scoobies, that has been your spooky, bloody news.
NOTES: [SPOOKY NEWS jingle plays] Spooky news!
Jenny: Weelllll! In news that is not quite so spooky...it's time for the results of the first Sexual Tension Awards that had Xander in every category.
Kristin: Ooh, is it the first time Xander's been in every category? Congratulations, man.
Jenny: Can you imagine a time before this when that would have happened?
Kristin: I don't know, you were talking about Xander in a speedo for months.
Jenny: [singing] "It takes two, baby." [Kristin laughs] Ah, yes, well. Okay, so. Ah, this is a landslide—this is a bloodslide or a landslide, however you wanna look at it. [both laugh] I can't even believe how sweeping this victory is. Down, way down at the bottom of the ladder, we've got Stud Xander and Big Gay Real Estate Agent with just a measly 2% of the vote.
Kristin: Is that you, Jenny? Did you vote? [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah, that was my vote. Just above them, it's everyone's least favorite pairing, Xander and Riley, with 3% of the vote.
Kristin: Aww. Sorry, boys.
Jenny: Then...with 8% of the vote, we've got a little Xander on Xander action. That's...let me tell you, the bottom three slots out of four, only account for 13% of the vote.
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: So with a sweeping, massive, undeniable 87% of the vote, it is my great honor and pleasure to award this episode's Sexual Tension Award...to two Anyas—nope. That's my fantasy. Two Xanders, one Anya. 87% of the vote! Two Xanders, one Anya! Congratulations, everyone.
Kristin: Yes. Your trophies are in the mail. Anya, yours is coming direct. Xander, we sent yours to Toth first so he can split it into two for you, sir. [both laugh] Wow. Also, Jenny, for like, 30% of the time that you were reading the results, I was just humming lightly to myself the song Landslide but with "bloodslide" in the place of "landslide."
Jenny: [laughs] Did it work? Did it work? Roll right off the tongue?
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah, it was pretty nice, I think. One last thing before we roll on into the episode. Which is why you're here, I think. But who knows, maybe you're here for the intro. I wanted to let everyone know that, in conjunction with a crowdfunded campaign that I did at the end of the summer to support the podcast I'm doing about My So-Called Life called The Boiler Room, one of the reward levels was to donate a talk to a GSA at a high school or a middle school, so I could Skype in and talk with them. And it's been so incredible, I had six of those donated and they've all already been taken by interested middle schools and high schools. And it made me realize that that is something that would be so appealing and that for a lot of schools, it's funding that is the barrier. I actually have started a Patreon of my own with the intentionality of funding the work that I do in general with LGBTQ communities. But also very specifically, I'm trying to reach a goal over there so that I can do one talk every single month for a middle school or a high school GSA. Sometimes I'll do community centers as well, you know, we'll be a little flexible with where those go. And so I want to let you know that on my website, kristinnoeline.com, you can just go on over there and all the information is there for you on how you can donate if you wanna support that. You can see the goal over on that Patreon page, and I would love your help if you want to help me reach it, because it is definitely of interest and I want to keep it going. So thank you for listening to my totally non-spooky news.
Jenny: Nice.
Kristin: [laughs] Alright Jenny, are you ready to talk about chips and brains and all sorts of other nonsense?
Jenny: I'm ready, let's do it.
Kristin: Hell yeah.
NOTES: [Buffering the Vampire Slayer theme plays]
Jenny: Hello. And welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast where we are watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, one at a time, spoiler-free. I am Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: And I am Kristin Russo. And this week, guess what? We are talking about Season 5, Episode 4, Out of my Mind. Stay tuned at the end of our podcast every other week for an original song, written by Jenny, recapping the Buffy episode that we are discussing. And if you haven't started listening to Angel On Top yet—if you didn't guess, that's our Angel podcast—it's hosted by Brittany Ashley and Laura Zak. It's amazing, and I'm not even saying that 'cause it's our sister podcast. It's really good! [laughs]
Jenny: It is a true blast. Out of my Mind was written by Rebecca Rand Kirshner and directed by David Grossman. It originally aired on October 17th in the year 2000.
Kristin: And this is the one where, while Riley's health begins to deteriorate, Spike and Harmony [starts laughing] force a surgeon to remove the behavior modification chip embedded in Spike's brain. What a summary! [laughs]
Jenny: A tale as old as time.
Kristin: Like, can you imagine if you didn't watch Buffy and that was the description that you read? [Jenny laughs] And you were like, that's what this series is about? Ohh. Wow. So this is the one, yeah. This is the one with the chip that's a penny and the boyfriend who's a misogynist. Ohh!
Jenny: I mean—
Kristin: Oh! Coming out hot.
Jenny: I just feel like that's really extreme—
Kristin: It is, it is.
Jenny: But congratulations on shutting off your empathy receptors. Only for Riley.
Kristin: No, it is extreme. It is extreme. As Willow says later in the episode, I'm just trying to get it going. [laughs]
Jenny: Mm-hmm.
Kristin: So, okay. So the Previously On takes us way back. I love when a Previously On does that. It's like, okay, well, um. If they just started in Season 5, there was this guy named Adam. He put floppy disks in his chest— [laughs]
Jenny: Oh my god. [laughs] Yeah, is this the first time we've seen Adam in a Previously On without him saying "Mommy"?
Kristin: There was one! 'Cause I kept track. [both laugh] 'Cause I hated it every time, and there was only one—I don't remember which one it was, but I know there was one Previously On where he did not say "Mommy." He doesn't say it here, and—you know, we basically get the gist that this is gonna be an episode that hearkens back to the days of the Initiative. Before we burned it to the ground and salted the earth.
Jenny: Whew! Well. Buffy's having a very good week.
Kristin: [laughs] Buffy's having a great week. Especially in that purple scarf.
Jenny: She is—in a purple scarf that she doesn't mind slaying in. And she's clearly been training hard.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And studying hard. Because she's staking vampires before they even eject themselves from their graves.
Kristin: Yeah, all of that practice is paying off. All of that training, you can really see it in action. And it seems like all the men in her life would like a piece of that.
NOTES: [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah, unfortunately, her slaying is...imposed upon by a bad case of boyfriendus interruptus. We've got—
Kristin: [laughs] Wow, Jenny. That's gonna be a recurring Season 5 joke.
Jenny: That's right. We've got Riley tossing a vampire up into the air, against the roof of a crypt, which is pretty tight.
Kristin: Mm-hmm.
Jenny: Then we've got fricking Spike showing up. Buffy's like, "could I get a stake in edgewise? Like, what's happening?"
Kristin: Yeah, Buffy's so over it.
Jenny: A hundred percent. [laughs] And not just Spike.
Kristin: [laughs] We learn that—before the moment that you know you're gonna get a jingle for—we learn that vampires can get bloody noses. Maybe we don't learn that, but it just seemed so jarring to me that I was like, is this the first time we've seen a vampire with a bloody nose?
Jenny: It is the first time we've seen a vampire with a bloody nose.
Kristin: Is it Spike's blood? Or is it somebody else's blood coming out of his nose? Like, how—
Jenny: No, Spike got punched in the face so hard that his body flipped around, 360 degrees in the air.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: So I'm gonna say that's his nose blood.
Kristin: That he—well, my question was more—I didn't mean, is it the vampire's blood from whatever. I meant, do vampires—like, have we resolved the issue? Do they have—
Jenny: I mean, I think that we just are meant to accept that vampires have blood and it's, like, none of our business.
Kristin: [laughs] Okay, great. So, then. Then! Spike and Riley are like, "yeah, Buffy, yeah [grunts repeatedly]" and fucking Buffy is like, "yo, you know, I don't want you out here." And fucking Riley is like, "She's right, you shouldn't be out here when she's patrolling." And Buffy gives Riley a look that is—this is the look of my jingle. Like, if my jingle had a facial expression, this would be it.
NOTES: [GO AWAY RILEY jingle plays] Riley, you are kind of a cardboard Your mansplaining's best to be ignored No one cares, you're our TA so please Please go away
Jenny: Listen, I'm not above saying that this is not Riley's best episode.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: But, um… I also would like to point out that he is going through a lot, both biologically and also emotionally?
Kristin: [sighs] Okay.
Jenny: So I don't know if we need to position him directly under the bus and then roll it over him repeatedly when he's already kind of on the ground.
Kristin: Well, okay. Listen, so we're gonna get into it early in this episode. Because last—I think it was last episode that I talked about—I think it was last episode that Riley was sort of saying, "I love your elbows and I love—I love every piece of you." And at that point in our conversation, I was like, I believe this but I have more to say, but I'm gonna wait on that. And that is what is unearthed in this episode and I think in a lot of Riley's behavior since we've met Riley. But certainly, this episode. This episode underlines the fact that Riley is threatened by Buffy's power, by Buffy's strength. And he does not feel comfortable with the idea of being less powerful, or at least drastically less powerful, than Buffy. So while I think that Riley does love all of the pieces of Buffy, he only is able to hold onto that love when he can match her in strength, or come close to matching her in strength. He struggles with being less powerful. And I think that—
Jenny: This is so interesting, because I feel like you are 50% there. But you are leaving out the whole rest of him as a human being. Like, yes, his is uncomfortable and insecure in moments. But I don't think it has anything to do with him being less powerful than Buffy or less powerful than his female partner in general. I think it has everything to do with, what is it for a human being to date a supernatural being? And like, how can you ever really reconcile those very different experiences? He's not worried about being not as strong as Buffy. He's worried about Buffy not getting what she needs from him.
Kristin: Right, he's worried about being normal to her supernatural, so to speak. And I'm not erasing—I'm not trying to erase the rest of his person. But I think that when we talk about, you know, the patriarchy and misogyny and other things, we're not saying that someone is just that one thing. We're saying—well, I mean, some people are. [laughs] But usually, there are many things happening at once. I'm just pointing out that I think that this episode is, for me, sort of the core of why I want Riley to go away. Am I aware and totally here for the many facets of Riley? Yes. I mean, I'm at least here to, like, listen to them, but I don't think that that takes away from the fact that there's an element of Riley that feels threatened by Buffy. Yeah, she's the fucking Slayer. And am I saying that, like, I wouldn't feel threatened in that position? No!
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah, congratulations on never feeling insecure in a relationship. With a human being that's biologically identical to you, let alone someone who's imbued with ancient power and a sacred duty.
Kristin: Listen, I'm not—but that's the thing is that the world—
Jenny: I just don't think it's misogyny. I think you're mislabeling it.
Kristin: Oh. Well, I say misogyny, you say po-tah-toe. You know what I mean?
NOTES: [laughs]
Jenny: I do, and… don't po-tah-toes come from Iowa?
Kristin: [laughs] I just—I think that there is misogyny in here. Do I think it's the only element? No. But I definitely think that there's misogyny in here. And like, that's such a—misogyny is a word like "feminism" where I think people can have a very visceral response to it. Right? Like, you say "misogyny" and people are like, oh my god, that's the worst thing you could say about a person! Or whatever. Heh, some people feel that way about the word "feminist." But I—you know, I just mean it to underline structural—and I know you know this, but I'm just sort of clarifying it for everyone here who's like, [dramatically] "what's happening?! Why are they yelling at each other?" [both laugh] But I just wanna say that it's a structural thing. I'm not saying Riley is a misogynist, I'm saying that I think that there's misogyny involved in what's happening between Riley and Buffy.
Jenny: I want to toss one more stick in this fi—well, this is not—it's not like a stick in a fire that's going—
Kristin: Just don't put it too close to the monkey's head.
Jenny: [laughs] I taped an episode of Slayerfest98 last night with our buddy, Ian Carlos Crawford—
Kristin: Yeah!
Jenny: And one of the other guests was author and Pulitzer Prize winner and famous Riley defender, Emily Nussbaum. And she made a really interesting point about Buffy and Riley, which I feel like is at the root of a lot of people's distaste for Riley, but they don't necessarily perceive it that way. It just feels like there is an energetic mismatch. Like, there is something missing from their relationship from the beginning.
Kristin: Mm-hmm.
Jenny: And as the relationship develops, Riley continues to search and reach for that, and Buffy is unable to give it to him. And I think that would frustrate anybody.
Kristin: What does Emily position he is reaching for?
Jenny: I don't want to say too much because of, like, where we are…
Kristin: Right, right, right. Okay, okay. Well, we're hoping that we get a chance to talk to—I mean, I might need—
Jenny: That's what I'm saying, like, I want to talk to Emily on the pod about this.
Kristin: [sarcastically] Yeah, okay, Jenny. Jenny comes out like, [snobbishly] "just so you know, a Pulitzer Prize winning author—"
Jenny: [laughing] Yes!
Kristin: "Actually defends Riley, so…" [both laugh] I will—please give me a few months to find another Pulitzer Prize winning Buffy fan who does not defend Riley—
Jenny: Riley detractor? [laughs]
Kristin: So that we are equally matched in this argument. [laughs] Anyway. Wow. So you top heavy Riley arguments here in Out of my Mind. But that's good, 'cause it means we can probably just have a blast for the rest of the episode. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah! Weee! Party, party, party.
Kristin: So, okay. So Spike is eating his own nose blood. By the way, you can email us—and I know you probably already are—
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: But you can email us at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com and just go off. 'Cause I know that everyone's bangin' on their fucking steering wheels and they got a lot to say in both directions, so send it all to us.
Jenny: And as you know, I don't read the emails, so say whatever you want.
Kristin: Oh, I'll forward 'em all to her, you don't worry.
Jenny: How dare you?
Kristin: Don't you worry your heads about it. Okay, so Spike is eating his own nose blood and defending himself. [both laugh]
Jenny: It's what he does!
Kristin: It's what he does. And then we get this scene… so it's sort of a breakaway scene. Still in the cemetery, but Riley, for the first time of two in the episode, is like, "you wanna go again?" And this time he's talking about killing vamps. The next time he's talking about fuckin'. There's this very funny moment where Buffy's like, "no, unless you wanna go kill Spike." They look at each other and they're like, "nyeh, we don't do that here." [laughs]
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah.
Kristin: And then—so you said who wrote the episode up at the top, right, Jenny?
Jenny: Yeah, it's Rebecca Rand Kirshner, who, I believe this is the first—
Kristin: Yeah!
Jenny: First one for her.
Kristin: This is the first one for her and she will be writing more, and I think she comes out hot! She's—I think this is written very well.
Jenny: Yeah, hell yeah.
Kristin: And like, written by somebody who obviously knows these characters and the way that they dialogue. We get some pretty dramatic Spike stuff in this episode. This monologue, "I will know your blood, Slayer. I will make your neck my chalice—"
Jenny: [laughing] The drama!
Kristin: [laughs] "And drink deep"—but it's all the drama set up for him to then fall into an open grave. And for us to get to the credits.
Jenny: Incredible. I love it.
Kristin: It's so good.
Jenny: Love seeing Spike fall in a hole.
Kristin: [laughs] Same.
Jenny: Okay, and then after the credits, we've got Willow and Buffy—are you ready? Buckle your seatbelts—having an academic debate.
Kristin: Yes. It's pretty hot.
Jenny: It's really great. It's really, really great. And my favorite part is that at the end of it, after they've sort of had the meta conversation of like, "hey, we're having an academic debate! Mrah!"
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Willow's like, "wow, you've been studying so much and it's so exciting. Should I be watching my occipital lobe?" and it takes Buffy so long to get the joke that she's like, "Apparently not." [both laugh] Apparently you don't need to watch your occipital lobe.
Kristin: It's really cute too because it's like, Buffy and Willow—I don't know. They are very tender and very familiar with each other, with their touch? Like, Willow touches Buffy's head at one point when she's talking about her brain. And I just—I don't know, I just feel like they've gotten really close and it's really sweet, and this is a way that they could bond. They're arguing about the French revolutionaries. [laughs] And I don't know, I think it's sweet. And it's also just adorable to see Willow get this excited about being able to engage in a friendship that she's had for years in a totally new way.
Jenny: Yeah, she's been waiting for this moment. And here it is.
Kristin: So meanwhile, Xander is measuring twice and cutting once. He used to—
Jenny: Yo, his carpentry skills are really blowing up.
Kristin: Yeah, it's hot.
Jenny: He's doing great.
Kristin: I'm sorry.
Jenny: It is hot!
Kristin: You know how you felt about the speedo that I never could get on board with?
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: That's how I feel about Xander measuring twice and cutting once. [laughs]
Jenny: [laughing] Yeah. A hundred percent. Yeah, he could fucking… measure… Anya… [Kristin laughs] twice and… cut—didn't somebody tweet about how this podcast has gotten exceptionally horny lately?
Kristin: Yes, yes, they did. They commented on an Instagram post of ours that was about threesomes. So, whatever.
Jenny: Well. Sorry.
Kristin: I want to—not to steer us away from sexiness, but in the next beat, we sort of pan through the Magic Box. Which is looking great. And we see that Tara's there, and then we get to Anya, who's like, "who put the monkey head near the Stix water? [Jenny laughs] Do you want us to have monkey guts everywhere?" She's so pissed off. And so I was like, what is Stix wat—'cause I turned the captions on and then I was like—
Jenny: Like, from the River Stix?
Kristin: Yeah, did you already know what the River Stix was, Jenny?
Jenny: Oh, yes.
Kristin: Plea—then you tell us. 'Cause I looked it up.
Jenny: Well, it's the river that you have to cross in order to get to the Land of the Dead in Greek and Roman mythology. And you have to give—I think it's Charon, you've got to give him a payment of some kind.
Kristin: Oh, I didn't read about Charon.
Jenny: To get on the boat, and then he ferries you across the River Stix. And the River Stix is just full of all the kinds of things you would think that a river of death would be full of. You don't wanna fall in, you can't swim across, oh god.
Kristin: Well, so that's interesting, right. Because that is what I looked up as well, that it's the principal river in Hades and all of that, and it crosses over, yadda yadda. But then also there was a segment of my research that said that the River Stix was believed to have magical properties that could make a person invulnerable. Achilles was allegedly dipped into the river by his mother, making him invulnerable, but his ankle remained a weak point, as he was suspended by it when he was dipped into the river. Achilles became a great warrior, you probably know this tale. He eventually died when an arrow struck him in the ankle, and that became known as the Achilles' heel.
Jenny: Okay, first of all, I can't believe you didn't give me the opportunity to tell the story of Achilles. [laughs]
Kristin: I'm so sorry.
Jenny: As we all know how good I am at recounting stories.
Kristin: Fuck! [laughs]
Jenny: Very specifically, but you know what really always bothered me about that story? It's like, you're making your—you're dipping your child into the river to make him invulnerable and you're holding him by the ankle. Why not then just hold him by the other ankle and dip him again?
Kristin: Right. They probably didn't think about it.
Jenny: You dum-dum.
Kristin: Probably didn't think about it. I mean, listen, Jenny, when I was a little baby, my mom took me to the beach. I kinda grew up on the beach, 'cause I spent my first 12 years of life on Long Island. And my mom was a stay-at-home mom and so before I was at school, I just lived at the beach. And the first time that I went to the beach—Robert Moses Field 5, in case you're wondering, Long Islanders—before I went to the beach for the first time, my mom slathered me in suntan lotion. And she put a onesie on me that had long sleeves and what have you, what have you. But then she washed my hands because she didn't want me to get suntan lotion in my eyes. And so, at the end of the day, I was like, baby Kristin, butt-white—all over, butt-white, except for my two hands. Which, don't worry, listener. They didn't burn because I am half Italian. They just got deep brown. So I just had two very tan baby hands and a very white rest of my body. So I'm just saying. Even the best parents...[laughs] can sometimes forget.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: So the Achilles' heel, you've heard of that. But have you heard of the Kristin hands? Have you?
Jenny: I have now.
Kristin: Yeah. [laughs] Okay. So Giles is trying to save money by selling salamander eyes instead of newt eyes. Willow is pissed. She is a—what do you call that? Not a traditionalist—a purist. She's a purist.
Jenny: A purist. A newt eye purist.
Kristin: Yes. And then… was it last episode that the vertical spooning happened?
Jenny: Uh, one or two episodes ago.
Kristin: So I would like to posit that ninth base, Jenny, is when your girlfriend reads your palm and—and! She can't just read your palm. She has to read your palm and say, "What I've gathered from my reading is… this is a Willow hand."
NOTES: [both laugh]
Jenny: In this scene, I was like, oh man, Tara's doing that classic fucking woman thing, where you're like, "oh, I wish I could the cool thing that I could do, but I'm just not good enough, but I'd love to watch and learn." And I'm like, no, Tara, you've been conditioned! And then she looks at Willow's palm and she's like, "This is a Willow hand," and I'm like, oh, yeah, no, you should just watch for a while, honey. [laughs]
Kristin: [laughing] Yeah, you do need a minute. [both laugh] So. There's a new training room.
Jenny: Yes. And Giles and Xander, I think—it seems like Giles and Xander made it together, and it's very sweet. [starts laughing] And it's unfortunate that the first thing that happens when Buffy steps inside is her enormous Golden Retriever leaps from the corner and tackles her to the ground. Meaning the best—having the best of intentions. But really just having a poor sense of timing and anyone's desire to be tackled.
Kristin: Yeah. But also, it's interesting that you said—'cause I was wondering if Riley had any involvement in this. 'Cause I got the sense that he didn't either, and I was kinda like, let them have their moment.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: You know, like, Giles and Xander in here. And they seem fine with it, they don't seem super bothered, but—
Jenny: His heart is beating 150 times per minute! Cut the man some slack!
Kristin: [laughs] I will never cut a man any slack, Jennifer!
Jenny: He's fucked up right now. [laughs]
Kristin: I want to make a note about the fact that there are so many bells and whistles in this training room, it's so awesome, it's so cool. And they have a stationary bike. [both laugh]
Jenny: Yeah, they've got a pommel horse, a stationary bike, a dummy stuffed with straw.
Kristin: I just—I know we don't spoil anything in this series, but I promise you, listener, that we will literally never see Buffy riding a stationary bike. [laughs]
Jenny: Alas.
Kristin: Alas. And then Buffy has this, sort of, you know, thankful monologue where she's like, "It's like the Tooth Fairy…" What did she say? "The Santa Claus and…"
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: "Q." And then everybody pauses. We've been getting a lot of Star Trek references—
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: In this show, this season. And she's like, "no, no, no, not Q from Star Trek, Q from Bond." Jenny, do you know who those Qs are?
Jenny: So, Q from Bond is, like, the tech person, right? Like, the person who's like, "here's the gadget! Here's how it works!"
Kristin: Yeah, it said that he was the fictional research and development division...or the head, rather, of the research and development division in the British Secret Service.
Jenny: But Q from Star Trek is a whole other bad vibe.
Kristin: In my very brief research, I didn't get the sense that Q was, like, so horrible. It sounds like he's—there's a lot of comic… not relief, but it's—here's what I copied and pasted, okay. "He's initially presented as a cosmic"—not he! Actually, I think Q is any gender of person—"is initially presented as a cosmic force judging humanity to see if it's becoming a threat to the universe. But as the series progresses, his role morphs more into one of a teacher to Picard and the human race, albeit often in seemingly destructive or disruptive ways, subject to his own amusement."
Jenny: Q is a chaotic, kind of like… I guess chaotic neutral?
Kristin: Mm.
Jenny: Kind of force and very condescending, I think is the thing.
Kristin: Ahh.
Jenny: And also, if you look up a picture of Q, you're like, oh yeah. That entity will condescend to me. [laughs]
Kristin: I think it was Q in Star Trek that could be—'cause Q was many different p-people? I think, but now I'm worried that I'm confusing the Qs and it was actually the Q from Bond that was many—I don't know. So, we gotta go! Because you know where we're going?
Jenny: Where?
Kristin: To a place I know much better than Star Trek.
Jenny: Oh!
Kristin: And Bond. To…
NOTES: ["I Don't Wanna Wait" by Paula Cole starts playing] I don't wanna wait for our lives to be over I want to know right now, what will it be?
Jenny: Yo, this is, I think, my favorite Spike line of the entire series, maybe?
Kristin: [laughing] Wow!
Jenny: "Oh Pacey, you blind idiot, can't you see she doesn't love you?" [Kristin laughs] This is incredible for so many reasons.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: A., Spike is a—not just a casual viewer of Dawson's Creek, but he is like, following the narrator, he has strong opinions about all of the characters. And as usual, he has the emotional intelligence to see what those around him do not. [Kristin laughs] Pacey, you blind idiot! She doesn't love you!
Kristin: Yeah. Do you know who he's talking about, Jenny? Spoilers for Dawson's Creek.
Jenny: Is he talking about Joey? Is he talking about the teacher that Pacey bangs? Is he—
Kristin: Those are the two options that I had in my mind as well. And he's talking about Joey. So I looked it up, because this is really run—I mean, it's fun for us now, 'cause we're like, yay, 90s nostalgia. But at the time, these shows were airing on the same network. Right? And I believe—
Jenny: Incredible.
Kristin: I don't even know if this was still happening. You can let us know, but I believe that they were also airing back-to-back at one point and maybe even at this point. [Jenny laughs] So this episode aired on the 17th of October in 2000. Season 4 of Dawson's Creek came back on October 4th of 2000. So Season 4 is hot off the presses, and what happened at the end of Season 3 is that Joey chose to go with Pacey instead of with Dawson. And so we open Season 4—
Jenny: Go where?
Kristin: With Joey and Pacey returning from their trip or whatever. So it's like… we're really in there. So if you were like—please—
Jenny: Wait, are you telling me the end of Season 3 of Dawson's Creek is that Joey has the choice of going on vacation with Pacey or Dawson? That's the—
Kristin: I don't think— [laughs] Sorry, I guess I didn't give enough detail. I don't— no, it's not that she has a choice of going on vacation. It's that Pacey is going somewhere. He's, like, leaving to go somewhere. On a boat. That's all I know.
Jenny: Sure, sure.
Kristin: And she's making a choice, not to go on a boat with Dawson or a boat with Pacey, but just to like, be with Dawson or to be with Pacey. And Dawson is—also, sorry. If I'm messing any of this up, to the Dawson's Creek mega fans, I apologize. But from what I understand and remember, Joey talks to Dawson, and Dawson's like, "you need to be your own person and make your own choices." And she's like, "cool, dude! Bye!" And then she gets on the boat with Pacey, where Pacey's going. And so they've been away and now they're back. And Spike is like, "she doesn't love you, man, can't you see it? She only has eyes for Dawson!"
Jenny: Dude.
Kristin: I don't even know if that's true. I shouldn't get ahead of myself. We need Brittany Ashley in here, she's a Dawson's Creek expert.
Jenny: Seriously.
Kristin: Okay! [laughs] Moving right along.
Jenny: Okay so, guess who's here at Spike's crypt?
Kristin: [sings] Harmony!
Jenny: It's Harmony!
Kristin: [sings] In the… crypt.
Jenny: She's looking for asylum because she's Buffy's archnemesis now and she needs to be hidden. She needs a place to say, and she'll do anything. Yes, anything. "Oh, you mean, will I have sex with you? Well, yeah!"
Kristin: It's really great 'cause Spike is really trying to build the sexual tension in this. [Jenny laughs] He's like, " anything? " And she's like, "do you mean will I fuck you? Yeah, dude. Whatever." And he's like, womp womp, okay. [both laugh] So this is really fun and funny. And Harmony is smoking because she feels like that's what a villain does. Which is in keeping with many villains.
Jenny: Yeah. But she's doing a bad job, bless her heart.
Kristin: She's doing a horrible job. But then, you know, here's a great idea. And it's sort of—the seed of this idea was planted in Real Me. Spike tried to get Harm to kill Buffy in that episode too, 'cause he's like, "I can't do it, but you can." But now they're really gonna come together, so that he can be the brains and she can be the brawn.
Jenny: Yeah. "Can you help with the thinking?" she says, which… he can. Also, while they're having this conversation, this is so fucking weird. Spike chalks up his hands? He, like…
Kristin: Oh, yeah.
Jenny: So he's either—here are my theories. He's either about to do some, like, bar gymnastics? [Kristin laughs] Or he's about to go rock climbing.
Kristin: Ooh!
Jenny: Like, I chalk my hands when I go rock climbing. Or he's about to do some very weird sex stuff that requires some superior grip.
Kristin: Wow, what is that—I mean—
Jenny: I don't know! I—I, like—I… I stopped there in my own mind.
Kristin: Not to reveal myself as someone who does not know about weird sex stuff that requires good grip with chalk hands, but.
Jenny: And you know, "weird" is more of a… a judgey sounding word.
Kristin: That's true.
Jenny: I didn't mean that. Perhaps just like, less typical. Less typical sex stuff.
Kristin: Kinky. Kinky sex stuff. Cool! So…
Jenny: Well! Hope they have a good time with that. So! Across town, Buffy and Riley have been fuckin'.
Kristin: Oh my god, and… I'm sorry, but a thing I probably wouldn't wanna hear after, like, a good lay is "boy, that was relaxing." [laughs]
Jenny: [laughing] This is what I'm saying!
Kristin: [laughs] So is this the thing?
Jenny: They are just mismatched—they're missing each other. They probably have opposite moons. Um…
Kristin: Oh my god.
Jenny: I think— [laughs] I really love when— [laughs] I really love when Buffy says she has the endurance of ten men, and Riley's like, "hey, let's just make it ten women for the sake of imagery. Please."
Kristin: [laughs] Okay.
Jenny: But then Buffy's like, "it takes a lot to wear me out." And Riley's like, "I love a challenge." And we're all like, eww, blegh!
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah. But it does confirm, I think, something we posited a couple seasons ago, or last season. That—I think we had a conversation around, like, so if she's the Slayer… it probably means that she can—
Jenny: Oh, right. Yeah. She has—
Kristin: Right? So she's giving us that.
Jenny: Super strength in all areas.
Kristin: Yes, yes. Super strength, even in the bedroom. She can—you can take her boot off as many times as you want.
Jenny: Over and over again on an infinite boot removal loop.
Kristin: [laughs] Dawn is—speaking of infinite loops, Dawn is in an infinite cereal loop. She's just dumping cereal into every bowl in the house, trying to get to the toy. Which is—
Jenny: I have to imagine this is still them writing for a 12-year-old and not a 14-year-old.
Kristin: Yeah, right? That's what I thought. But it's not, because—
Jenny: Even 12 seems a little old for—
Kristin: But it's not, though, because I think we've already seen an episode where—I think it was last episode that Joyce said, "Ah, my two teenage daughters." So…
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: So, I don't know. This 14-year-old wants that treat. I mean, I kinda get it. I feel like I still want the treat. There aren't treats in cereal anymore, you know?
Jenny: Yeah, what the hell?
Kristin: Right?
Jenny: Who let that happen?
Kristin: Someone probably choked on one of the toys, and then they stopped putting them in there. Anyway.
Jenny: It could be. So Dawn gets her cereal prize, but then the next thing that she gets is Joyce fainting in the kitchen. Which sucks.
Kristin: Yeah, it's really scary. Because also, she doesn't just faint. She looks right at Dawn and says, "Who are you?" and then falls to the floor.
Jenny: It's so scary.
Kristin: And she falls to the floor with plates that drop, so it's just very, very scary. And Dawn should get a little credit here, because Dawn clocks the situation and immediately goes to the phone and dials 911. You know? So—
Jenny: Yeah, I thought—I didn't remember exactly what happens here. And I thought it might have been a situation—while I was watching in real time the first time—that Dawn might have, like, frozen.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: And then Buffy might have come in and been like, oh shit, I gotta call 911.
Kristin: Yeah, 'cause it's—we've only really seen Dawn kind of, like, let Harmony in and you know, knock the crystals over. So it's one of the first times that I think we see Dawn really take ownership and do something very powerful and positive. So good job, Dawn.
Jenny: Then we meet hot Dr. Ben.
Kristin: Hot intern Ben.
Jenny: And here's another thing that I don't—I have a hard time picturing a 14-year-old do, which is, using the stethoscope and touching—putting it on a man she just met.
Kristin: Right!
Jenny: First!
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Then putting it on Buffy, while he's basically saying "your mom is okay." And then putting it on Riley, and Riley's heart is significantly different than Ben and Buffy's.
Kristin: It sounds like a stampeding of horses. Riley's heart. It's scary—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: I don't like body things. And this is, like—I don't like it. I don't wanna know what my own heartbeat sounds like, I don't wanna know what Riley's heartbeat sounds like. Everybody, keep your heartbeats to yourself.
Jenny: [laughs] Be decent. Please.
Kristin: The doctor is—so, you know, we skip a bunch of stuff, which we can gather is Dawn being like, "Riley, your heart! It sounds like horses!" and then them being like, "let's get you to the doctor!" And we cut into the scene where the doctor is like, "I would get on my knees and beg you to stay." And I'm like, whoa, lady!
NOTES: [both laugh]
Jenny: Keep it professional, ma'am.
Kristin: [laughing] What kind of doctor says "I would get on my knees and beg you"? It was a lot for me. But basically, she's saying, "you could die at any minute. Why the fuck would you leave?" And Riley is just like, "I'm fine, I'm fine, I'm fine, I'm fine, I gotta go." Joyce and Dawn pop in, they're like, "we're good, you good?" And they all leave, Buffy looking very concerned.
Jenny: Then Willow, Buffy and Dawn get Joyce set up on the couch.
Kristin: This is cute.
Jenny: I love that Willow's like, "what about a crossword? Some people say feed a cold. I say, puzzle it."
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah. Yeah, I feel like perhaps this new writer of ours, of this episode, is a big Willow fan.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: 'Cause Willow gets a lot of really Willowy lines.
Jenny: True.
Kristin: "We can play a game. A very quiet game about being a lump." [both laugh] It's very sweet. And it's also really sweet because they're all so concerned about Joyce and they're like, taking care of her and… it's nice.
Jenny: Yeah, it's really nice. And then Joyce is like, "Honestly, I'm more worried about Riley." And Buffy's like, "oh my gosh! Don't worry about Riley. He's not worried, so we shouldn't either."
Kristin: [laughs] Cut to—
Jenny: [simultaneously] Hard cut to Buffy furiously pacing in her bedroom with Willow and Dawn, being like, "I don't know what's wrong with him! His heart is being bananas and why isn't he taking it seriously? And I'm so worried and he's gonna get a heart attack." Flipping out. And Dawn is being very helpful with a collection of CIA and Fidel Castro facts that she has collected from her classmates.
NOTES: [laughs]
Kristin: [laughs] Uh-huh. And you know, none of them help until one of them does. Like, you know?
Jenny: That's the thing! [laughs]
Kristin: Buffy, leave room for a brainstorm, man. You know? You gotta say a bunch of things till one really sticks. And she makes this comment about Big Brother and if you want them to know something, just say it out loud because they'll be listening. And she's like, right! I should speak into the dial tone of the fucking phone in Riley's room. "Riley's in trouble. He needs help," she says over the dial tone. [laughs]
Jenny: Yo! And like, I mean, that—when she picks up that phone, it has the classic [makes light clicking sound] of a phone that's been tapped. [both laugh] And it's like, Riley was in the military. Do you guys have a subtler phone tap situation that you could set up? You think he's not gonna notice that? [Kristin laughs] Then we have a beautiful montage of Riley—
Kristin: Yes, this was made for you, Jenny.
Jenny: Sweating! Sweating! Dunking—I actually don't love what he's wearing in this. I feel like that is maybe the worst tank top they could have selected for him, but whatever. He's sweating! He's dunking! He spikes a basketball, there's electric guitar happening. [Kristin laughs] Everybody's having a great time. Dunk, dunk, dunk, dunk, dunk! And then, he sees Graham. Our old buddy Graham.
Kristin: Graham is really one-noting it for me in this episode, Jenny. I'm really—
Jenny: He's always been pretty one-note, but this episode is a new level, or lack thereof.
Kristin: [laughs] I think it's just 'cause he doesn't have the balance of Forest and he has a lot more lines than usual, that I'm like, Graham.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Come on, man. [both laugh] Give us anything!
Jenny: Give us something, yeah. But he's trying to get Riley to come in to the doctor to get his heart fixed, basically.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: And Riley's like, "fuck that," punches Graham in the fact, tosses the other two guys off, and runs away.
Kristin: Runs away. And then Graham and Buffy are talking in the lobby of UC Sunnydale.
Jenny: A bruised-jaw Graham.
Kristin: [laughs] Yes.
Jenny: Appeals to Buffy, "please. He's… in trouble and he really needs to see the doctor. Please."
NOTES: [Ad music starts playing]
Kristin: Today's episode is brought to you by Eversmile White Foam. Eversmile
White Foam is America's #1 selling aligner cleaner for clear teeth aligners: Invisalign, SmileDirectClub, Candid, et cetera. Most people, myself included, prefer clear aligners over braces because they're less noticeable, but you can feel self-conscious about the fact that they can get yellow. EverSmile White Foam is the only on-the-go aligner cleaner. They've sold over a million bottles. EverSmile kills bacteria, freshens breath, whitens teeth. You just pump the foam into your trays and you put them right back into your mouth. I cannot tell you how awesome this would have been if I had some of this when I was using invisible aligners. Aligners begin to collect biofilm and bacteria the minute you put them into your mouth, and you wear them all day. EverSmile White Foam kills 99.999% of decayand odor-causing bacteria within 60 seconds. The patented hydrogen peroxide based formula also breaks up stain molecules, it prevents staining and it lightly whitens your teeth over time. In short, EverSmile White Foam gets you the best results from your clear aligners. You can pick up a bottle at your local participating CVS Pharmacy or go to EverSmileWhite.com/buffy, use the coupon code "buffy30" for 30% off your first order. That's EverSmileWhite.com/buffy with the code "buffy30." Do you think that vampires wear aligners?
Jenny: Support for today's episode comes from Shudder. AMC Network's Shudder is a premium streaming video service with the best selection of horror and thrillers. From bantering with Shudder on social media, to relishing in member-only perks like exclusive releases and VIP movie screenings, Shudder believes there's safety in numbers. Don't be left in the dark alone. It's not safe out there, come in. Via Shudder, you can stream great thrillers, horror and suspense for just 5.99 a month or 56.99 a year. Dubbed "the Netflix of horror," Shudder has the largest, fastest-growing, human-curated selection of thrilling and dangerous entertainment. And you'll have unlimited access to stream ad-free on all your favorite devices, like Apple TV, Amazon Fire TV and more. I took the liberty of perusing some of Shudder's selections, and found a film I thought our listeners might really be into. It's a film called Lizzie, about Lizzie Borden, a biographical thriller film that came out in 2018 and stars, among other people, Kristen Stewart! And Chloë Sevigny, and Fiona Shaw. That's right, Harry Potter's freaking aunt! Also Kim Dickens from Deadwood is in it. This is just one example of the great horror and thriller style entertainment that you can find on Shudder. And guess what, for our listeners we have a special offer. You can try Shudder free for 30 days. Just go to shudder.com and use promo code "buffy." That's S-H-U-D-D-E-R.com, promo code "buffy" to try Shudder free for 30 days now.
Kristin: Today's episode is also brought to you by Native. Native creates safe, simple, effective products that people use every day. Their products are filled with trusted ingredients and their natural deodorant is no different. Native deodorant is formulated without aluminium, parabens and talc, and with ingredients found in nature such as coconut oil, shea butter, tapioca starch. Their formula contains simple ingredients that you understand and comes in a wide variety of enticing scents for everyone, even the scent-conscious demons of the world. Plus they release limited addition seasonal scents throughout the year. Their classic deodorant scents include coconut and vanilla, lavender and rose, cucumber and mint, eucalyptus and mint, blood and fangs...just kidding about the last one. Probably the whole time I've been talking, you've been thinking, "yeah, yeah, yeah, it's made of nature, we get it. I'm still gonna stink and I'm still gonna sweat." I tell you this, listeners, and I am not kidding you, I've tried a million natural deodorants. None of them have ever worked for me except for Native. I use Native, I use it every day. It works for me and I am so excited to have found it. For 20% off your first purchase, visit nativedeodorant.com and use promo code "buffy" during checkout. That's nativedeodorant.com, promo code "buffy" for 20% off your first purchase.
NOTES: [Ad music stops]
Jenny: Then we get some hot Santa Barbara B roll. [Kristin laughs] Woo-woo! And then we see Riley wandering amongst some caves. And then… we get some real good shit. [both laugh]
NOTES: [Clip from episode plays]
Xander: Maybe he just needs some time alone. Like, I had this friend once who really liked this girl. And he got all worried that maybe she didn't like him back. And maybe that made him act like a total jerk. Maybe Riley reminds me of that friend.
Jenny: So this is like the classic "my friend has this problem" that is a trope used for when people wanna talk about themselves. But in this case, Xander is actually talking about his friend.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: And you get in trouble when you try to use this and you actually mean a friend. Because—I can tell you from my own high school experience, that I had a friend who was like, doing a bunch of drugs. And I was worried about her, and I went to my guidance counselor to talk about it—
Kristin: Oh, no.
Jenny: And what I got, was like—
Kristin: Oh no!
Jenny: Monitored for the rest of my high school career.
Kristin: [laughs] Oh no!
Jenny: And accused of doing drugs.
Kristin: Oh, no!
Jenny: So, you know. This ploy is not the best tact, I guess.
Kristin: Right. And Anya certainly doesn't get it.
Jenny: Dude, I love that! "I care about you, Xander. Don't be insecure. I have this friend, who I have it on really good authority, really likes your friend." [both laugh] And then, I love this because Xander is trying to help Riley and trying to be a friend to everyone. And Anya is hilariously misconstruing it. And then Buffy is just… a fucking… bitch! [both laugh] Like, she just… is—I mean, I understand that there's a lot at stake. And it's intense. And nobody wants Riley to d—well, some people probably want Riley to die. But I don't and Buffy doesn't. But like, it's so extreme! She's just, like, so mean.
Kristin: Well, she's—but also, she is like, "my boyfriend might die at any moment." And Anya's over here like, "my friend, your friend, somebody else's friend!" [both laugh] I kinda get it. Like, I feel like I might also be like, "can you all shut up? You go to the docks, you go to the school, I'm going to the caves. But wait. I don't know the caves very well." Well, it turns out, Spike knows the caves pretty fucking well. So over Buffy goes to Spike's lair…
NOTES: [SPIKE jingle plays] Spike! I love you Spike! So dreamy Spike! Your trench coat Spike! I love you Spike! Your black nails Spike! Peroxide
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: Oh my god! This—
Jenny: What could they be getting up to? It turns out, they were just cha—Spike was chalking up his hands to play 20 Questions. [both laugh]
Kristin: He's so mad at Harmony! "Is it bigger than a bread box? Is it smaller than a bread box? Harmony, is it a sodding bread box?" [laughs]
Jenny: And it is!
Kristin: She's so proud of him. She's like, "you're so good at 20 Questions!"
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: I think she even calls him Blondie Bear, so.
Jenny: She does.
Kristin: Then Buffy is busting down the door and Harmony, of course, is like, "She's found me!" [Jenny laughs] and runs and hides in the fucking thing. And—so Spike gives to Riley one of my favorite Riley nicknames, actually. Or refers to Riley in a way that might be my favorite in the series? As "the enormous hall monitor." [both laugh] Which really got me! And Spike really pisses Buffy off. Buffy slaps him across the face, which is hot.
Jenny: Uh-huh, uh-huh, uh-huh. And threatens his life.
Kristin: And then, all I've written is "half now, haha"—oh, that's the money.
NOTES: [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah, she rips the money in half. [laughs]
Kristin: Yeah, so. Buffy's like, "I have this money" and Spike is like, "give me half now and half later." She rips it in half. She leaves. Harmony is—
Jenny: Yo, and I just watched Tom Cruise do this in Eyes Wide Shut the other night.
Kristin: Why… were you watching Eyes Wide Shut last night?!
Jenny: Okay. I—we don't—we shouldn't get off on a whole thing, but Eyes Wide Shut, you may just remember as like, oh, it's that—that—"
Kristin: Crazy sex movie.
Jenny: Exactly. Well, you know what's really fucking fucked up?
Kristin: [laughs] Wow. That was a Kristin sentence if I've ever heard one.
Jenny: How can I cram the whole thing—so basically, if you go and rewatch that movie and then read some Reddit threads about it—
Kristin: Okay.
Jenny: You will see that it is actually an indictment of Jeffrey Epstein and people like Jeffrey Epstein.
Kristin: Whaaaat?!
Jenny: And what appears in the film as just, like, a masked sex party is actually a stand-in for something much darker. And it's just like, really… intense.
Kristin: Holy shit. Well, I didn't pick that up at age, fricking, 16.
Jenny: [simultaneously] That's why I rewatched it and it was wild.
Kristin: Wow, okay.
Jenny: And there's so much hidden and also, by the way, Stanley Kubrick turned in what was his, in quotes, "final cut" but it was three months till the release of the movie at that point. And he was famous for making tweaks all the way until the end. He turned in his final cut and died, like, five days later.
Kristin: [gasps]
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: Whoa!
Jenny: And then the movie was marketed as, like, "Tom Cruise and Nicole Kidman go to a crazy sex party."
Kristin: Oh my god.
Jenny: And that's how we all remember it, but it's actually about this much, much larger, darker thing.
Kristin: Wow. Wow, I cannot believe that I have to watch this fucking movie again. Okay. Great. [Jenny laughs] I remember watching that movie in the theater. As a teenager.
Jenny: Yeah, I—it's definitely not for teenage brains.
Kristin: No, I was like, what is happening?
Jenny: [simultaneously] Rewatching it was like, wow, I did not know what was going on here.
Kristin: Right. Okay, so. After Harmony is like, "what did she say about me?" [both laugh] We cut to the hospital, where this doctor is wearing glasses even tinier than Buffy's undercover sunglasses. Somehow—
Jenny: Yo, they're so tiny. Also, this actor, the doctor—the actor playing the doctor, his name is—are you ready?
Kristin: I'm ready.
Jenny: Time… Winter.
Kristin: No!
Jenny: His name is Time Winter.
Kristin: Oh my god, okay, so Old Man Winter is wearing tiny glasses. [laughs]
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah! Father Time, Old Man Winter.
Kristin: Yes. And Spike has decided that the best fucking weapon to bring, for Harmony t o control, is the crossbow. Which I felt would make you, especially, angry, Jenny.
Jenny: This is what I'm always saying! These idiots!
Kristin: [laughs] They basically kidnap the doctor because Spike wants the chip out of his head. And has uses his brain to figure out that, "hey, fuck it, I'm not gonna find Riley. I'm gonna find this doctor." So they take the doctor to this medical classroom, basically, that has some equipment. And he's like, "fucking do it to me, doc. C'mon, doc." He's like, laying back.
Jenny: Dude! It's so—yeah with his arms behind his head.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: He's like, kicking him a little, like, "heh heh heh, do me right."
Kristin: Yes, perhaps we will meet these two in a future nomination. Just saying. Also, when we talked to James Marsters, he told us how, when he would—when they would paint his nails black, he would find a piece of metal or glass or whatever and scratch off the nails. But that often you couldn't even see it. You can see it!
Jenny: Oh, but you can see it in this ep.
Kristin: Yes! I was like, oh my god, that's what he was talking about. That's cool. Harmony is just winging crossbow arrows fucking left and right like a fucking— [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah. She's really gotta get her shit together. Meanwhile, Willow and Tara are—have you ever noticed that when people are on a mission in this show and they have to go search somewhere, they like stroll very slowly, side by side, so they can talk?
Kristin: [laughs] Listen, this isn't West Wing, you know? We can't all walk so quickly and talk. [both laugh]
Jenny: I know. So Willow is frustrated with the darkness, so she just whips a little potion bottle out of her bag and makes an enormous fireball sun. And Tara's like, "what…?"
Kristin: Mm-hmm.
Jenny: "How did you… um…" and Willow's like, "oh, it's the spell you showed me." And she's like, "no, no, the spell I showed you made a teeny, tiny little light. That is a freaking huge light." And Willow's like, "oh, I just messed around with it until it got bigger." And we're all like, okay…
Kristin: Yeah. She actually says, "I tinkered with your Tinker Bell spell." Just like…
Jenny: Yeah, I—[groans] [both laugh]
Kristin: But yeah, so that's a little moment between them where we're, like, watching Willow's power grow. And watching Tara be like, "hum."
Jenny: Yeah, so then—okay. Here's what doesn't make any sense. Buffy pays Spike to go find Riley in the caves, but Buffy also goes to the caves?
Kristin: Yeah, I agree. I had the same question.
Jenny: It seems like a few pages were left out of the script or something. [laughs]
Kristin: Right. But that question immediately erased from my mind when I burst out laughing because Riley is just standing inside the cave, punching the cave wall. [laughs] Like, it just really got me. That he's like, you know what I need to do? I need to go into a cave, and I need to punch the cave wall. Over and over again.
Jenny: Well… listen. He's having a hard time, he's really going through it right now.
Kristin: He's going through it. Yes. He's going through it. He's, like, yelling—he's very upset with Buffy now at this point too. "Just back off." And then they have this conversation where basically he says some of the things I said up top when Jenny and I were having the epic argument of 2019. [Jenny laughs] "They're gonna just turn me into Joe Normal. I'm just gonna be another guy, it's not enough for you." And Jenny, if it's alright with you, I'd like to play just a piece of this monologue? Especially of Sarah Michelle Gellar, some of her acting here and her lines, I think, are really powerful. [Clip from episode plays]
Buffy: So that's what this is about? You're going to die over some macho pissing contest.
Riley: It's not about him. It's about us. You're getting stronger every day, more powerful. And I can't touch you. Every day, you're just a little further out of my reach.
Buffy: You wanna touch me? I'm right here. I'm not the one running away.
Riley: Not yet.
Buffy: So you have this all figured out. I'm bailing because you're not in the super club.
Riley: It's human nature.
Buffy: Don't Psych 101 me. Not now. Not after everything that… [pause] Nobody has ever known me the way you do. Nobody. I've opened up to you in ways that I've never opened up to— [pause] God. You're just sitting back there thinking that none of this means anything to me.
Riley: I never said that.
Buffy: Because it obviously doesn't mean anything to you! Do you think so little of me—
Riley: Buffy—
Buffy: No! No. Do you think that I spent the last year with you because you had super powers? If that's what I wanted, then I'd be dating Spike! Riley, I need you.
Kristin: This Sarah Michelle Gellar cry has gotta be ranked up there with the top cries. It's—
Jenny: Oh, yeah. Well, she's just a master of the craft, really.
Kristin: Truly. But it's like, I don't—I don't know if you know this, listeners, but I'm doing another podcast at the moment about My So-Called Life. And Claire Danes is—whew! Really up there with the masters of criers. And so it's a lot for me, you know? I'm watching two women just really cry very well, many times in a week. [laughing] It's taking an emotional toll on me. But she's really upset. And I don't know, I mean, Jenny, what do you feel about this? 'Cause up at the top we were talking more from a Riley vantage point of, like, does he or doesn't he have any misogyny in his need to blah blah blah. But, you know, Riley posits—and it sounds like Emily Nussbaum posits—that Buffy is not there, right? Like, she isn't. But Buffy herself is positing that she is here. And so I'm just wondering what your take on it is.
Jenny: I think that this is a moving scene. I feel like both of these characters are doing their best to reach out to the other person.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: And be transparent and be honest and direct. I just think that it's possible—I think what I take away from this and from the next scene with them, post Riley surger—or the next scene where they're alone, post-surgery. What I get from this is that Buffy can't give Riley what he needs. I feel like Buffy doesn't have what Riley needs, to offer.
Kristin: Right, so I agree with that—
Jenny: And I don't think there's anything wrong with Riley for needing something and I don't think there's anything wrong with Buffy not being able to give it to him. I think it's just like a sad situation.
Kristin: Right. I'm there with you for most of that. But I think that I need to do more thinking about what it is that Riley needs and what it is that Buffy can't give Riley. Because that's the piece that seems pivotal to me, of—you know, because this scene is so moving. And I just feel that Buffy is loving him as much as she can love somebody. And—
Jenny: Yeah, I think that's the prob—I think—
Kristin: Right. Right. And so I agree with you that it's not wrong of Riley to perhaps need more than that. But I just—I'm not—I haven't distilled it down to its finest essence yet and maybe I never will. But I don't know, I'm not ready to not be angry with Riley. I'm not there yet. I'm still feeling like… you have this person who loves you and who is also saving the world. Perhaps—I don't know! Like, maybe they should at least have a deeper conversation than these, like—I don't know, they're just spinning around out here, talking about it kind of generally. And I feel like, they love each other. Talk about it a little bit more, you guys. I don't know. But we'll see. We'll see where it goes.
Jenny: We'll see.
Kristin: Let's cut to… the med school room. Where... [laughs]
Jenny: [laughs] Oh my god! Give Mercedes McNab her Emmy!
Kristin: Yes. Harmony is like, "blah blah, they say the real sex organ is his brain" and then she looks— [Jenny laughs] into his brain and basically, this is what happens—in my mind, this is what happened. As soon as she looked at Spike's brain and she was like, "It's all pink and wriggly," I heard… [PYNK by Janelle Monáe starts playing] Pink when you're blushing inside, baby Pink is the truth you can't hide, maybe Pink like the folds of your brain, crazy Pink as we all go insane
Kristin: Okay! I had to do it. I had to do it. I had to do it! Welcome back to the other side of Janelle Monáe.
Jenny: So Harmony asks if she can touch his brain and the doctor and Spike, who we immediately learn is still conscious, say in unison, "No!" [Kristin laughs] And then, oh my god, I fucking love this shit where Harmony's like, "do you even know what it means that he can't kill, Doctor? He can't even pick flowers!" And Spike gets so defensive about yes, he can pick flowers! [both laugh]
Kristin: It's really good. [laughs]
Jenny: I would think not being able to pick flowers would be more of an issue with, like, being nocturnal. 'Cause like, don't… flowers… close overnight? Am I—
Kristin: Some do.
Jenny: Ah.
Kristin: Not all flowers, though, I don't think. Hashtag Not All Flowers. [laughs]
Jenny: [laughs] Okay.
Kristin: So Buffy and Riley get up to the doctor's office and of course, everyone is unconscious on the ground. Graham immediately wakes up and Riley's like, "how many fingers am I holding up, man?" and he's like, "17. Hostile 17." [both laugh] And then, we cut back to—I've dubbed this location "med school."
Jenny: [laughs] Oh, true. Yeah, what even is this place?
Kristin: I don't know. There's so many X-rays of a brain. All over the place. [both laugh] X-rays of a brain, also, guys. I'm up for doctor of the year.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Spike does yet another dramatic monologue about the Slayer's blood, where he's like, "I wanna bathe in it, dive in it, swim in it! I'm gonna do the backstroke in it!" [both laugh] And we're all like, wow, buddy. Now, when I get to things that I'd like to nominate for Sexual Tension, they get an asterisk. So that has an asterisk next to it. No spoilers!
Jenny: Oh, okay.
Kristin: Are we ready? Should we do the Sexual Tension Awards now, while we're bathing in the Slayer's blood?
Jenny: We actually have to wait until the end...like, until we're totally done talking about the episode 'cause that one thing, okay, cool!
Kristin: [simultaneously] Ohh, right, yes, yes, yes. I'm so sorry, I got so excited that I forgot about—
Jenny: I know, I know, I know.
Kristin: Okay. So before we get to the Sexual Tension Awards… Harmony is smoking into Spike's brain…
Jenny: [laughs] Oh my god!
Kristin: There's this weird birth, sort of, analogy that's happening, where she's like, "I see it, Spike! I see the chip!" [laughs]
Jenny: Oh god. And then she's like, "it's nestled in there like a little Easter egg and your brain is like the green plastic grass" and we're all like, blegh!
Kristin: Yeah. And then the doctor's like, plunk. And we're all like, oh my god.
Jenny: Well, well, well, well, well! Well. Harmony is smoking—
Kristin: Oh, right, yes!
Jenny: And he says, "could you put that out please? It's really not allowed." And she's like, "yeah? Says who?" and he gestures to a No Smoking sign and she's like, [gasps] "oh my god, I'm so sorry, I totally didn't see the sign, I'm so embarrassed, oh my god, I'm so sorry." And as her back is turned, he drops what we're meant to believe is the chip into the little surgery… bucket. Receptacle. Whatever.
Kristin: [laughs] Jenny and I, we have lab coats, so…
Jenny: Yeah, we've got two lab coats, we've got specialties, we've got fields of study. It's not a big deal.
Kristin: [laughs] So. After the plunk of the penny into the surgery bucket, Buffy busts in. And now, you might remember from Real Me, there was a moment where Harmony tried to deliver the line, like, "Slayer, at last we meet" and it was really funny. Spike delivers it here in the way that Harmony, I think, was after.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: His delivery of "Slayer" is fucking hot. I'm like, yes!
Jenny: Yeah, so great. Also, the cocking of his shoulders?
Kristin: Mm-hmm.
Jenny: Like, the way that he leaps up— [groans] yes!
Kristin: Yes! It's good. Harmony, being her sexiest self, shoots Riley in the leg 'cause she fucking slips again.
Jenny: Ohh, buddy!
Kristin: I love her. And—
Jenny: "So slippy!"
Kristin: Yeah. And then of course, we learn that Spike cannot hurt Buffy because the surgeon has not taken the chip out of his head. He has just opened up his brain and closed up his brain again. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah. And they're fighting, they're fighting, they're fighting. And then Riley has a heart issue and goes down.
Kristin: Yeah, Riley finally collapses.
Jenny: And instead of taking advantage of the fact that Riley's down, Buffy is distracted, and the doctor—
Kristin: I know! They just leave!
Jenny: Is just a regular guy, Spike and Harmony are like, "let's get outta here!"
Kristin: Yeah, I agree. I had the same note, like, what? Why? But okay. Then, before—or maybe as Riley is having his heart surgery, we get— [Kristin laughs] Spike being like, "Buffy, Buffy, Buffy!" And he says a lot of things about Buffy, but the one I wrote down is, "her shampoo commercial hair!"
Jenny: Me. Too. [laughs]
Kristin: [laughing] Interesting.
Jenny: Yeah, I wonder where that could be leading.
Kristin: Yeah. He picks up an entire headstone and throws it against another headstone. He grabs Harmony. He is feeling tense! Tense.
Jenny: Yeah, he's real stressed out. And he's not gonna take it anymore. And Riley… is all patched up, back to normal. Buffy's like, "see? Still touchable" and he's like [makes suggestive noises]. [Kristin laughs] And then literally seconds, seconds after Riley is out of his surgery from his life-threatening condition—
Kristin: Yes. Yes.
Jenny: Buffy's like, "cool! Gotta go check on my mom, bye! You're fine, right? Muah!" This sucks! This is exactly what we're talking about.
Kristin: Right. But there's also—
Jenny: This is your partner, your partner almost died. Call your mom! She has a phone.
Kristin: Listen, Jenny, you're allowing for Riley to have a lot going on in his life. But I feel you perhaps are not allowing Buffy to have as much going on in hers. First of all, the way that this scene is done is weird. Because—just in general. Like, he just had, we are to believe, heart surgery? I just can't imagine—
Jenny: [laughs] It's just like a little bandage.
Kristin: I know, and he's like, sitting up and the doctor's gone, like, "peace, man! Good luck!" [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah, they're like, "yeah, just um, uh, put your shirt on and check out with the front desk when you leave. Bye!"
Kristin: Right. So it's weird already, because I feel like, if we are to believe that this happened, Riley would not be up and about. And I think it would read a little bit differently if he was not up and about, and Buffy was like, "peace, I'm gonna leave you in this classroom." But the way that it's done, it seems like he's about to just hop off that table and go get a new pair of pants because the doctor had to rip his to get to his artery in his leg, I guess. I don't know, I'm not a doctor.
Jenny: Heh-heh-heh!
Kristin: [laughs] So anyway, yes, it is—I'm with you, that like, we're all kind of like, ooh, you are just leaving him right away? But since you gave so much layer to Riley, I would like to add that there's a lot going on here for Buffy too. Because she has just had her boyfriend basically tell her that he doesn't know how to love her because she is the Slayer, a piece of her that she can't figure out and that just last episode, she was wondering upon splitting herself in two so that she could feel normal.
Jenny: Sure.
Kristin: So I think she's got a lot going on as well.
Jenny: Sure, yes. Yes, she does.
Kristin: Okay.
Jenny: And as usual, Buffy's needs come before everyone else's, even the guy who just had heart surgery.
Kristin: Yes. So then Graham—still at the exact same emotional level he's been at since the beginning of the episode— [both laugh]
Jenny: [flatly] "You don't belong here. There's nothing for you. You used to have a mission and now you're what, the mission's boyfriend? The mission's true love? You belong with us." [Kristin laughs] And then we hear, swelling out from the background, [sings] "You're on the phone with your girlfriend, she's upset!"
Kristin: [laughing] Nice. [both sing the tune together]
Jenny: Yeah. Cool. We rock.
Kristin: Great. I would like to point out—as we transition into what we know is a dream but we do not know is a dream when we first start watching it—that Spike, in his dreams, wears incredibly fancy shirts.
Jenny: This is what I'm saying. This is our first indication that it's a dream. Spike is wearing a black shirt with a black floral or paisley pattern on it. And it's almost like, is this...Buffy's dream? Because that looks like a shirt somebody else would wear.
Kristin: That Angel would wear, but what if that's what it is? Like, what if Spike is—
Jenny: Oh my god, in his dreams, he's more like Angel?
Kristin: Yes! [both laugh] I wanna let you know that I'm so engrossed in this show and the characters that I, in my mind, just panicked that Spike might listen to the episode and hear us say that and be mad.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: Spike's not real. Spike's not real. I'm fine.
Jenny: He definitely doesn't listen to podcasts. [both laugh]
Kristin: So but yeah, what if that's an element that—you know, we know where this dream is going and we know that the only other vampire that we know of who has made out with Buffy wears pretty ornate shirts and stands pretty close to the fire.
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: Hopefully future Spike dreams will have open flame. But yeah, so he's wearing a really fancy shirt.
Jenny: Oh my god. The drama! "Take me out of a world that has you in it."
Kristin: Oh my god, this is like a po—it's like a vampire porn.
Jenny: This is like—this is the scene that launched—
Kristin: Uh-huh.
Jenny: 500,000 fanfics. For sure.
Kristin: Mm-hmm! "I should have done this years ago!" She holds up the stake. [Jenny laughs] He rips his shirt off, he says, "kill me! Just do it, kill me!" And she can't! She cannot kill him!
Jenny: She can't! They have to kiss! 
Kristin: They have to kiss!
Jenny: And then they have to be like, "whaaat?!" And then they have to kiss more! And then they're like, "I love you! I love you !" [Kristin laughs] And then Spike wakes up in what must be the coldest of sweats and is like, "fuck!"
Kristin: Yeah, exactly. The non-censored version of this episode was him waking up and saying "fuck!" [both laugh]
Jenny: With Harmony asleep beside him.
Kristin: [simultaneously] But instead he says, "oh god, no." Oh, god no! Oh, god! [Jenny laughs] What is gonna happen?! What a way to end an episode, wow. Sometimes I do wish I could get in a time capsule and go back and watch it in real time, because this is the end of an episode where you are on your landline phone. You are slamming those buttons, they are beeping—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Your best friend is picking up and you are screaming for a minute at least before you can even form words.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: Losing your shit. Wow, whew, I'm so worked up, Jenny. I think now it's time.
Jenny: Yeah, now it's definitely time. [SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays] Sexual tension award!
Jenny: Okay. So. Here we are. [sings to the tune of The Final Countdown] "The final countdown!" [speaks, as Kristin hums the tune in the background] Of the Sexual Tension Awards for Season 5, Episode 4, Out of my Mind. Are you ready?
Kristin: [still humming until the end]
Jenny: [laughs] Okay, okay, okay. Settle down—
Kristin: I want you to know that I did that whole thing, like, I did the whole thing with a giant mouth full of water because you—I wanted to make sure that I hit it in good comic timing but I couldn't swallow the water?
Jenny: Oh my god. Oh my god.
Kristin: So you should be more impressed. Okay, sorry, yes.
Jenny: I am even more impressed. Okay. [both laugh] So first up, you can vote for our first set of nominees, Willow and Tara for that steamy palm-reading. [Kristin laughs] Really actually pretty bad palm-reading, but like, it's going somewhere scene—
Kristin: But where's that palm gonna go next?
Jenny: Yeah, I can't even begin to think about it. And this is a family podcast. Okay and so—
Kristin: [laughs] Sure it is.
Jenny: [laughs] The second—our second nominees are—are you ready?—Spike and the doctor for that sexy little "do me right, I'm ready, give it to me doc."
Kristin: Yes! Like, do you want him to take the chip out or do you want him to unbuckle your belt, Spike?
Jenny: Yeah, I mean… [clears throat] [Kristin laughs] Our third pairing, our third option, are you ready? It's Spike and the blood of the Slayer. He seems pretty worked up about it!
Kristin: He wants to do the backstroke in it, for god's sake.
Jenny: He wants to splash around in there, eugh.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And fourth and finally, are you kidding, it's Spike and Dream Buffy, c'mon.
Kristin: Oh my god. We've been waiting for a kiss like this for a minute, Riley ! [both laugh]
Jenny: Yeah, well, I didn't see Spike take off her boot in that scene, so I have yet to be convinced.
Kristin: Her boots just came off! Like, they just fell off of her feet. [both laugh]
Jenny: Oh my god, true. Okay, so if you wanna be part of our democracy, please find the Twitter poll for this episode's STAs on our Twitter feed. We're @BufferingCast and you can vote there for a full week after this episode goes up. [Kristin starts humming The Final Countdown again] So join us in this beautiful exercise of… okay. [laughs at Kristin's humming] Yes, yes. [Kristin hums louder] Okay. Okay, okay, okay. Settle. Settle. Settle.
Kristin: [sings] "It's the final countdown!"
Jenny: [laughing] Oh my god. Okay! [SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays] Sexual tension award!
Kristin: Anyway!
Jenny: Whew, well, that's this episode. [both laugh] That we just talked about.
Kristin: [simultaneously] That is this episode! Isn't it, Jenny?
Jenny: So many things happened. So many polarizing things, so many fun things.
Kristin: Oh, god. Mom and Dad got into an argument at the top.
Jenny: Well…
Kristin: But we're still fine. Look at us go.
Jenny: Of course we are!
Kristin: It's fun, I actually recently had an all-ages Pride party in Atlanta. Jenny and some of our wonderful Buffering listeners came, and one of them came up to me and they were like, "you know, I really love the banter about Riley." And I'm like, it's fun that we disagree about something, right? Like, it is fun to kind of get into it.
Jenny: Yeah, I agree. I mean, do you wanna just—we could just have one host if we were gonna agree about everything.
Kristin: Exactly. And it would be me. 
Jenny: Ummm… anyway! [both laugh] I'm Jenny Owen Youngs, and when I'm not watching Buffy—way more times than Kristin has!—I'm usually—
Kristin: Wow! [both laugh]
Jenny: Writing and recording songs. You can hear some of them at jennyowenyoungs.com. And I'll tell you what, I've been putting songs out for the last few months. There's four out, I have an EP coming out next month in November. And you can pre-order that also at my website and you can find the songs that are out so far on streaming platforms and on Apple Music and all of that good business. You can also give me a shout on Twitter @JennyOwenyYoungs.
Kristin: Nice.
Jenny: And you can also listen to me talk about another petite blond protagonist over on my other podcast, Veronica Mars Investigations.
Kristin: Yeah! I am Kristin Russo. When I'm not watching Buffy for the second time, I will admit, just the second time. [both laugh] I can also be found watching My So-Called Life. I'm about halfway through my rewatch of that series with Joanna Robinson, friend of our pod over here, in a podcast called The Boiler Room. You can also find me working with LGBTQ communities. You can check out all of my work over at kristinnoeline.com. And I want to say that I have my own Patreon account now. Recently, because of The Boiler Room, I raised some funds to support that podcast and in doing so, allowed people to donate talks to middle school and high school GSAs, where I would Skype in and talk with those GSAs. And there was such an amazing outpouring of interest from schools to pick up one of these donated talks that over at my Patreon, which is patreon.com/kristinnoeline, you can help support and donate on a monthly basis. And those donations will go to continue that, so that I can donate more than just the six that I accrued from The Boiler Room. So in addition to that, of course, it will support a lot of the other work that I do with LGBTQ communities. But I just wanted to plug it over here, because you wonderful people are so good at supporting all the things that we do. Oh! And you can also follow me on the internet, @KristinNoeline. That's K-R-I-S-T-I-N, N-O-E-L-I-N-E.
Jenny: Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram, @BufferingCast, or drop us an email at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com. Also you can now leave us a voicemail at our new phone number! It's 216-30-BUFFY.
Kristin: [laughs] Please leave us voicemails, we love them. You can support our work here on our Patreon where there are just tons of fun perks, all over the place. I'm not even gonna go into 'em. Just go over there and check them out. You can find that at patreon.com/bufferingcast, or the easiest way to find everything that we do is by going to bufferingthevampireslayer.com. From there, you can click on Patreon to join our Patreon family. Or you can click on Shop and head on over and grab yourself some sweet merchandise. It is the end of October, which means it is basically the holiday season. So now is the time, don't be like you always are. Scrambling, scrambling in December. Go on over there and get your loved ones some Smash the Patriarchy merch. That's what I always say, right, Jenny?
Jenny: Uh-huh. You always say that.
Kristin: Always say that. So you can do that, and you can also go and rate and review us on iTunes. That helps us a ton and it helps more people find our podcast so that we can take over the world! [evil laughs]
Jenny: Wow. [pause] After you do all that stuff, don't forget to watch Eyes Wide Shut and then read a bunch of Reddit threads about what it really means. [Kristin laughs] And till next time…
Jenny and Kristin: Awwwooooooooo!
Kristin: [starts humming The Final Countdown] [both laugh] [Jenny performing "Out of my Mind" off the album Songs from Season 5 by Buffering the Vampire Slayer] You are who you are to me You are who you are to me I need your heart, not your biochemistry You are who you are to me Wait - don’t throw my words away Gotta take me honest when I say I would feel the same Even if you never knew the kind I’ve been But your stupid brain Finds a way to turn around the things I mean You are who you are to me You are who you are to me I need your heart, not your biochemistry You are who you are to me Why would you put up a fight You know I just want to get you right I would feel the same Even if you never saw the things you’ve seen And I hate your brain Always finds a way to turn around the things I mean You are who you are to me You are who you are to me I need your heart, not your biochemistry You are who you are to me