Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 6.10: Wrecked
[CHIME]
Jenny: Hey everybody! Hello!
Kristin: Oh, hi. Hi. Jenny made me retape the introduction because I was too happy. She was like, "That was far too much joy to be filling—" Just kidding. That's not what you said.
Jenny: I was like, "hey everybody." And you were like, oh, let me screech up in my clown car and jump out of it [Kristin laughs] and honk your nose and squeak a frigging thing that sprays water in your face and—
Kristin: Love to honk.
Jenny: Do a couple cartwheels, and look at my penguins, they go in a pyramid!
Kristin: Wow. Love to honk. Love to pyramid with penguins. [Jenny laughs] Delightful things! Uh, hey. We are having a blast in Season 6, as you all know.
Jenny: Yay.
Kristin: Journeying—dancing around, partying. We do have some really fucking cool shit happening in the land of Patreon that we wanna tell you about. First up. Jennifer Owen Youngs…
Jenny: Hello.
Kristin: And Morgan Lutich—
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: Nemesis of the pod and beloved—
Jenny: Hey!
Kristin: What—listen, I—I'm just—
Jenny: Don't talk about my Morgan like that.
Kristin: Following the bit. [Jenny laughs] Jenny and Morgan are gonna be watching Legally Blond together on April 15th. Jenny, is this, like, the second, the third, the seventh time you've seen this movie? Or…?
Jenny: This will be my very first time! I'm always looking—
Kristin: Gasp!
Jenny: To expand my horizons of petite blond protagonists. [Kristin laughs] So I'm ready—
Kristin: I mean…
Jenny: To venture into the courtroom.
Kristin: One of the most important petite, blond protagonists, here in Legally Blond.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: So Jenny's gonna be watching this movie for the first time. This is part of a new movie watch club that we have that is open to all of the patrons of Buffering and of Angel On Top. You come on into the Slack, we hit play together, and we chat while we watch a movie. It's really fun and then patrons of Angel On Top get bonus podcast episodes. So you've gotten one from me and Morgan, we watched Down with Love together and talked about it. And Jenny and Morgan will be talking about Legally Blond and all of Jenny's feelings, and I'm sure some of Morgan's as well. So…
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: Learn about that on our Patreon. Join for the bonus podcasts over at angelontop.com. Jenny, you're busy this week in April, because just a couple days later, April 17th, you are playing a concert of Buffering songs.
Jenny: That's right. I'll be all like, [singing] "Objection, your honor! [Kristin laughs] Sustained!" Et cetera. I'm sure.
Kristin: So, listen. That concert is open to all patrons. You can learn about all the events that we have going on and become a patron, if you're not already, at bufferingthevampireslayer.com. It truly is so busy in the land of Patreon, so I'm just gonna run down a few other things happening in April. Joanna and I are back with our bonus podcast, Feels Like the First Time. Joanna and I are watching and discussing a trio of movies this month, which include—Jenny, you're gonna be excited about this trio!
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: [inhales] Army of Darkness.
Jenny: Wow!
Kristin: Followed by The Covenant, have you heard of it?
Jenny: Somebody just told me to watch it!
Kristin: [laughs] Joanna has referred to The Covenant as Abercrombie and Witch. So I am—
Jenny: [laughing] Yeah!
Kristin: Fucking into it!
Jenny: Hell yeah.
Kristin: And the third movie is Tremors. I have not seen any—
Jenny: Wow!
Kristin: Yeah. Good shit, right?
Jenny: A mystery sandwich on classics bread.
Kristin: Exactly. Exactly. But I—it's mystery sandwich on mystery bread for me, 'cause I've seen none of these films—
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: Which is the premise of that bonus podcast.
Jenny: Oh my frigging god.
Kristin: We are also reading Darcie Little Badger's Elatsoe in our book club. That's for $5 patrons. And last week, our $10 patrons got the first of many, many behind the scenes videos of us writing Once More With Once More, With Feeling. And you know what? Like, why not, I'm on a tear so I might as well tell you, that the ultimate patrons got their first bundle of exclusive merch for the year. And it included Smash the Demon Lizard Patriarchy socks. So. Like—
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: Whatever. It's a fucking good time in the land of Patreon. I'm not gonna lie.
Jenny: I have a question. First of all—
Kristin: [simultaneously] Is it a tiny question?
Jenny: Where are my Smash the Demon Lizard Patriarchy socks? And second of all, are they in the package that you sent me that I haven't opened yet?
Kristin: Wow. Wow! [Jenny laughs] Wow!
Jenny: It's all coming together. [laughs]
Kristin: [simultaneously] I was like, Jenny, they're literally in the package that you told me you got a week ago. So—
Jenny: They're about six feet away from me right now.
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah! Yeah. [Jenny laughs] There's two pairs of fucking Smash the Demon Lizard Patriarchy socks in there for you.
Jenny: Well! [Kristin laughs] [clears throat] Be that as it may, the time has come for you to stop—
Kristin: To take your socks off! [laughs]
Jenny: Telling us about pat—yes! Socks off. First the boots come off.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Nice and slow! [Kristin laughs] Then the socks come off at whatever speed you please, 'cause it's time for the results of last episode's Sexual Tension Awards!
NOTES: [sings a triumphant tune]
Kristin: Like, come on, we know who won. This is Smashed, people, so.
Jenny: The fact that anybody else got votes at all is kind of impressive. But maybe it's just because Spike is in every single…coupling and throupling. In last place, with a paltry 4% of the vote, it's Spike and human blood.
Kristin: Mm. That's fair.
Jenny: They've got something special, but you know, not in this lineup. I am concerned about Spike and Warren getting a little bit more. [Kristin laughs] Getting 6% of the vote and putting them in third place. Blegh! [both laugh] In second place, it's Buffy and Spike with twe—this is the worst Buffy and Spike as a combo has ever done, right?
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Second place, 12% of the vote?
Kristin: Yes. Yes.
Jenny: But it had to be this way. It could only be this way. Get out your sledgehammers.
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: Nay. Put away your sledgehammers—
Kristin: Yeah, you don't need 'em.
Jenny: Put away your table saws.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Put away your tools of demolition.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: All you need is safety goggles, because it's Buffy and Spike and that poor, sweet house [Kristin laughs] that never saw what was coming. With 78% of the vote, [singing] the walls came tumbling down!
Kristin: They did. Jenny, two things. First of all, Spike and Warren technically also includes human blood, which is why I think that they got 2% more. [Jenny laughs] 'Cause you kinda get two for the price of one. [laughs]
Jenny: Uh-huh, uh-huh, uh-huh.
Kristin: And two, I will say that every vote, I usually get at least a handful of people who are like, "oh no, there was a bump on the bus that I was riding and I voted for the wrong thing!" [both laugh] So you know.
Jenny: So that could explain a lot.
Kristin: It could account for the 4% or the 6%—
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: Or anything therein. So yes, Buffy and Spike and the walls, three trophies issued to you. Really, I mean, I don't know how many of the walls get the trophy. But we'll—we'll do some math.
Jenny: There are no more walls! [both laugh] You can't—there's no address to which you can send the trophy, because it is just an empty lot now.
Kristin: Anyway! Hey, there are things that you can purchase in our store. The crop tops are back in stock. They're in a different color, because the mustard color doesn't exist anymore. So if you got a mustard crop, good on you. I got one too. We're the lucky few. But there's some really cute crop tops, tanks. Mugs are on preorder, they're back. Zip hoodies are on preorder, they're back. And hey, everything except for our Once More With Once More, With Feeling vinyl is on a pretty massive sale through the end of the day today. So if you listen to this podcast when it releases, lucky you. You just have to use the code "RATAMY" and you will get 20% off of anything in the US or the UK stores. Again, except for that Once More With Once More, With Feeling vinyl, through midnight Pacific, today. March 31st, 2021. If you're one of our ultimate patrons, you always get 20% off, so guess what? For this sale, you get 30% off. I've written "bada-bing" in my notes. I don't know why. [Jenny laughs] My sister just started watching The Sopranos so I guess that's why. [laughs]
Jenny: Listen. Bada-bing is not something you can just read off a page.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: It can't come from copy, it has to come from the heart.
Kristin: Do not talk to this Italian about proper usage—
Jenny: [simultaneously] Well!
Kristin: Of "bada-bing," Jennifer Youngs.
Jenny: Uh, I have two words for you. [Kristin laughs] Gaba. Gool. [Kristin laughs] And dear listeners, please be advised. This episode contains conversations on themes of addiction and substance misuse.
Kristin: Alright, Jenny. Are you ready?
Jenny: I'm ready, let's do this!
Kristin: [makes choking noise]
NOTES: [Buffering theme plays]
Jenny: Hello and welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer! A podcast—a fun, carefree, footloose podcast [Kristin laughs] where we are watching and discussing every low-impact, high-fun episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, one by one, spoiler free, in tandem with Angel On Top! I'm Jenny Owen Youngs!
Kristin: Ah, yes, and I'm Kristin Russo. Kevin Bacon is just dancing his way right through these episodes, just footloose—
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: Fancy free—
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: No heavy plots to delve into, not at all. This week, we're talking about the hilarious episode, Season 6, Episode 10, Wrecked. Stay tuned—
Jenny: A real gut-buster!
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah, yeah. Stay tuned at the end of this podcast every other week for an original song, written by us, recapping the Buffy episode we are reluctantly discussing.
Jenny: Wrecked was written by Marti Noxon, directed by David Solomon and originally aired on November 27th, 2001. Just five days after I had reached the tender milestone of the age of 20.
Kristin: [laughs] Just a few—not to be—not to brag. But just a few days before I was about to turn 21, and have my first sip of alcohol. [laughs]
Jenny: Ha, congrats on your very first sip.
Kristin: Yeah, big day. It was a big day. Hey, according to TV Guide—according to the short, thick TV Guide—
Jenny: Nice.
Kristin: This is the one where Buffy's tryst with Spike—that's one way of putting it—leaves the Slayer—
Jenny: Mmm. [laughs]
Kristin: Shaken to the core. Willow falls victim to a warlock who stimulates her craving for magic. Alright.
Jenny: Blegh! [laughs]
Kristin: Sure, TV Guide. Whatever you say. Not how I would personally put this. A little behind the curtain here. Jenny and I usually have, like, a little gathering about what we'll do for the Sexual Tension Awards. We usually have four ready before we start taping. We've got two and they're a stretch, so good luck to us. Hopefully we'll find some—
Jenny: Hurray!
Kristin: [laughs] Hopefully we'll find something to do. You know, Jenny, nothing—nothing decrees that we have to pick four. You know what I mean? So if we only have two, we only have two.
Jenny: That's true.
Kristin: It's not a very sexy episode.
Jenny: They very thoughtfully kick us off in the Previouslys, though, with recounting a remembrance of what two very powerful witches think is really cool to do at the Bronze.
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah. I actually was like, ooh, we really focused a lot on the sheep. But there was a strawberry. Did you—[laughs] just like, a—
Jenny: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: But it's not like, a—it's not like a, you know, wow, they turned that man into a strawberry. It's just, they put him in a costume of a strawberry. So, yeah. "You came back wrong." We get, you know, just a little note about the painful things that Spike and Buffy have been saying to each other over the course of the last few episodes. We get a little "shut up, Tara"—
Jenny: Uggghhh!
Kristin: "Forget we were ever in a fight, Tara." To let us know that there are really just a dwindling amount of healthy relationships here in the town of Sunnydale. Was really excited that we got the hilarious, I'm—uh, "I was a rat. You? Dead" quote. Like, they knew that that was so funny that they put it in the Previously On. Jenny, we start the episode. This—usually, the information that I find is intentional. You know, like, I will look up, like, what band was playing at the Bronze? Or I will look up whatever. This was unintentional. This scene opens and it's—a cartoon is playing on the television. And when I was looking for something else, I found out the name of this cartoon. Do you know what it is?
Jenny: I don't.
Kristin: [laughs] The name of this cartoon is Ding Dog Daddy. [both laugh]
Jenny: Wow!
Kristin: It's a Looney Tunes cartoon from 1942. I will read you the description. "A dumb mutt falls in love with the metal statue of a greyhound."
Jenny: We've all been there.
Kristin: Ding Dog Daddy! [laughs]
Jenny: We've all been there! Hey, relatable content. [Kristin laughs] So! I could have gone my whole life without hearing about the mother of all night wedgies. That would have been fine.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: I could have survived, happily so.
Kristin: Yeah, yeah. I could have gone without it as well. But it is very—I mean. You know, there's a few things that happen in this episode that I feel like situ—like, Dawn is just—I know people have feelings about Dawn. I know people are like, oh, Dawn is that, Dawn is that. You all know that I'm a fan of Dawn. And this episode in many ways has made me feel like Dawn is just getting, like, a very specific personality at this point. You know? I'm like, I'm here for it, I'm into it. Her waking up and being just, like, the 15-year-old who's like, "wah, wicked wedgie!" is just like, such a part of Dawn. [Jenny laughs] So it has to be there, because that's just who she is.
Jenny: Is she just gonna be 15 forever or are we gonna observe a birthday for her at some point?
Kristin: I don't know, this is a spoiler-free podcast, Jenny. So. [laughs]
Jenny: Okay. [laughs]
Kristin: There's no way to know. There's really no way to know if she'll ever grow up.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: Tara—so Tara—and I point this out because Tara wakes up and she's, like, just so confused about where she is. And I—I love Amber Benson. I think she's fucking phenomenal. Great, good work, so much good work. This is not one of those moments for Amber Benson. [both laugh] And it really hit home because Buffy wakes up in the next scene, really sort of like, disoriented and confused about where she is. And I'm like, okay, so that's how you do that. Tara is so much more confused than she should be. Like, she's confused for, like, four extra beats of like, how did I wind up on this couch?
Jenny: [simultaneously] Yeah, if you're waking up on a couch that you've actually spent a lot of time on in your life, [Kristin laughs] you shouldn't be this alarmed.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: You shouldn't be more alarmed than the person waking up in a pile of rubble that they just created with their fucking.
Kristin: Exactly. Exactly. So this scene is here to point out that no one has come home, because they've, quote, "lost track of time." [both laugh]
Jenny: Cut to the Spuffy demo job!
Kristin: I now call this location in my notes "HGTV." So…[laughs]
Jenny: Hell yeah.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: You know that thing where television shows kill the golden goose?
Kristin: No.
Jenny: Do you know—you're not done watching Twin Peaks yet. But do you know who killed Laura Palmer?
Kristin: I think I do. Yes. [laughs]
Jenny: Okay. Friends is, like, 14 seasons long or something.
Kristin: Sure, sure.
Jenny: And how soon do Ross and Rachel get together?
Kristin: I think Season 1 or 2.
Jenny: Oh my god, and then aren't you just so bored?
Kristin: Yeah, because it already happened.
Jenny: It's like, ehh, okay, now what do I have to look forward to?
Kristin: Oh, so killing the golden goose is basically giving up the goods.
Jenny: Giving up the goods!
Kristin: Giving up the goods, so—
Jenny: You're surrendering, I guess, your power as the show.
Kristin: [laughs] Right, okay.
Jenny: Your mystery.
Kristin: So that's what—that's what Buffy and Spike have done. They've killed the golden goose.
Jenny: Yeah. I mean, I think, like, tension has been building steadily for a long time. And then observing Spike's behavior—post-coital Spike is like—
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Blegh. Suddenly I find myself on Buffy's side. I'm like, oh, this is disgusting. Ew!
Kristin: Yeah. I mean, they're both being pretty fucking shitty to each other. Like—
Jenny: Oh, totally. [laughs]
Kristin: You know. Yes, I agree. Spike is a fucking—I mean, Spike really takes it—at first, it's sort of like, a jab, a jab, a jab, a jab. She's disgusted. I'm disgusted, Jenny, that she has put this skirt back on her body. [Jenny laughs] Because I don't know a lot about sex, but I'm gonna guess [both laugh] that skirt is really not something you wanna put back on. I understand it's her only option, but I'm having a difficult time with it. And in—at the start of this, I mean, you know, she's saying shitty things, that this was a freak show. He's being a jerk. But it really kinda gets to the place of, oh, wow, Spike, when he's like, "I knew the only thing better than killing a Slayer would be fu—" and then she, like, punches him in the face or whatever. We all collectively do, 'cause why? Why? Well, we know why. 'Cause Spike is a fucking monster.
Jenny: Yeah. And even before he is monstrous, he's just kind of like, smarmy and like, puffed-up with his own sense of self-satisfaction.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Which is just like, not a good look.
Kristin: It's not. It's not a good look. And this is, like—I'm probably gonna get in trouble for even, like, having a conversation about this. But I'm gonna try it anyway. I feel like Spike had—up until this point, Buffy was like, you're disgusting, you're a freak show. She's still saying that, but like, he has this thing to hold onto, which is the intimacy that they shared. And we're led to believe that it—like, that this wasn't just fucking. Like, I mean, we can't know, we weren't there. The wall fell down and the cameras turned off.
Jenny: We saw enough, Kristin.
Kristin: [laughs] We saw—I mean, I'm not asking to see more. But I—like, the way that I think that this is presented is that in the intimacy of them fucking, Spike recognized that there was something there for Buffy. Even if it isn't what is there for him—like, even if it isn't mirroring the feelings he has toward her, that like, he recognized that she desires him.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And like, that confirmation of that desire is giving him this bravado, which I agree is not—I don't want to see it either. But I do—like, I think I do at least understand the root of it. If Buffy, I think—if they had had an open communication about the complexity of their feelings before this, I don't know that it would have been such a hard shift. But…they've been kinda fucked up in their communication from the jump.
Jenny: There are, as far as I can tell, three good things about this scene.
Kristin: Okay.
Jenny: One is that you can see James' modesty panties at one point. [Kristin laughs] Which are a hoot.
Kristin: Uh-huh.
Jenny: One is that he says, "I may be dirt, but you're the one who likes to roll in it." [Kristin laughs] Everything else that's going on aside here, sick burn. [Kristin laughs] And then when he holds up her panties and says, "Did you want these?" and she punches him in the face.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Appropriate.
Kristin: I know we know this is problematic. I know we know we're gonna be looking into it, Jenny. But I also thought that it was additionally especially confusing to see their dynamics in this scene, where Buffy's like, "Don't touch me." And then she's like, "But do touch me." And—you know what I mean? Like, they're putting some things on the table that are letting us know that words and actions are not matching. And I think that this is a very complicated space.
Jenny: Eugh!
Kristin: Yeah. And so, you know, we're not gonna dive into that pool right now. But it's there. It's on the table. I'm putting all the things on a special table in my office. [laughs] For later examination.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Okay?
Jenny: You keep your table. I'm headed to the stove. I'm making some pancakes, you know what I mean?
Kristin: I do know what you mean. Have you ever talked about your incredible ability to make pancakes on this podcast?
Jenny: I don't think I've talked about pancakes on this podcast. I like making pancakes. I don't think that I'm incredible at it, but it is something I enjoy. Thank you for listening.
Kristin: [laughs] Jenny—when Jenny makes pancakes, she makes a test pancake first, which I think just, like, elevates your seriousness about pancakes. You know? That like, there—there's a test pancake! There's no test pancake in this kitchen.
Jenny: Well. Yeah, and if there had been—well, things coulda gone differently. But we'll never know, will we? I think it's weird that Tara and Dawn are not—especially Tara is not, like, more stressed out?
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: About the fact that nobody's there. I get that, like, maybe she's trying to, like, be calm for Dawn. But it's weird that they're, like, not even calling anyone.
Kristin: Yeah, especially because—I mean, I don't remember this ever happening before. And it seems like they also don't ever remember this happening before. There should be, like, a reason that maybe people wouldn't come home at night, but they always have. So I agree.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: You would think that at least Dawn would be more concerned than she's letting on to being. In walks Amy…with Willow. And Tara, notably flustered—
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: Notably uncomfortable, notably definitely thinks Willow is banging Amy. [laughs] And—
Jenny: Correct.
Kristin: Willow immediately is like, "No, Amy the rat." And I'm like, I'm not sure that that really helps your case—like, I don't think that her formerly being a rat nulls and voids you possibly making out with her. But—
Jenny: Sure. Sure, sure, but maybe there's a sense of security that she assumes—
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Tara will get from that. Oh, it's someone we know. It's our friend.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Right, right. It's our pal, Amy the rat.
Jenny: You've just never seen her like this before.
Kristin: Also, Jenny, did you realize that Amy rats Willow out? [laughs]
Jenny: Boooooo! [both laugh] Ugh!
Kristin: For her use of magic. I'm sorry, I—I didn't mean to make the bad joke. I just wrote down "Amy the rat" and then my next note was like, "Amy's telling on Willow" and I was like, hold on a second! Anyway.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: Amy's like, "Man, you shoulda seen her! She was great, she was doing magic! She took this guy's mouth off his face!" And Tara and Dawn are like, increasingly backing up against the cabinetry. And Amy realizes—Amy's all of us in the pandemic. [Jenny laughs] Amy's like, "I'm so sorry, I'm talking so much! It's just been me and a bag of pellets for two years." [both laugh]
Jenny: I think Elizabeth Anne Allen is doing a great job—
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Of bringing a lot of rat-ness to the role now.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: She's super jittery.
Kristin: She's great. She's amazing. I think that she's phenomenal. We—if you are, like, newer to the podcast and you haven't listened to the interviews that we've done. Just FYI, we got two—two bells have rung in this episode, because we have interviewed both Elizabeth Anne Allen and Jeff Kober, who plays Rack. So—
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: You can go back and listen to those conversations. But Elizabeth Anne Allen is fantastic. Since you've brought up how you respect her in this episode, I would like to talk to you about how I feel about Elizabeth Anne Allen. Permissible?
Jenny: Hit it.
Kristin: So…in the Angelverse, [laughing] we've just met a character named Justine. Justine—
Jenny: Oh, god.
Kristin: [laughs] I'm sorry. [Jenny sighs] But Justine is played by Laurel Holloman, the actress who also plays Tina on The L Word. I do not like the character of Tina. I do not like the character of Justine.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: I said it in my little corner in the episode that you heard last week on Angel. I said it very briefly and I'm not gonna go into it here, because I'm not here to, like, rain on anybody's parade. But I will say that Eliz—
Jenny: [laughs] For all the Justine slash Tina stans out there? [laughs]
Kristin: [laughing] I don't want anybody getting mad at me. I just want you to know how I feel. Don't like it. I realized in this episode that Elizabeth Anne Allen should have played Tina on The L Word. She would have been a fucking great Tina. That is—that is a thing I'm putting down for you to pick up. What do you think?
Jenny: I would watch that. I would check that out to see what's going on.
Kristin: Yeah. I think—
Jenny: Also, what do you think about Justine, Tina? My, Tina could be a nickname for someone named Justine, it seems like. [Kristin laughs] Is it possible in the continuity that there's actually some overlap between the Buffyverse and the L Word-verse?
Kristin: L Word-verse? I can see it. I can see it. Justina—this was 2001 and The L Word came out, what, 2003? So like, in The L Word, Tina was like, fucking some dude before she met Bette. But maybe she—maybe that was, like, her—
Jenny: Maybe it was Holtz all along!
Kristin: [laughs] Maybe it was Holtz, right, right. Maybe it was Holtz the whole time. And to escape from the hell dimension of that Los Angeles, she took the moniker "Tina." [laughs]
Jenny: Oh, yeah. Yeah, she's still living in LA. She's just in a different part.
Kristin: [laughing] She just—she just went a few blocks over.
Jenny: Cool. So. Tara, disturbed by this information that Amy can't help but share, sweeps out of the house.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: And Willow's like, desperately flailing. [dramatically] "Ohh, what about the box of your stuff that you should stay right now and take? Please, don't go!" But Tara says, [dramatically] no! [Kristin laughs] I have my—I have plenty of rainbow trout dresses at my new abode. I don't need the ones I left here, I'm not in a rush. And she flees.
Kristin: Uh, yes, Tara is off. The box of her things notably labelled "Tara" upstairs. [laughing] Which made me laugh. [both laugh] Like, as though Willow has, like, many boxes of things for various people.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: [laughs] Buffy arrives home. She's real beat up, uhh, to the eye—
Jenny: Yeah, she had, like, an all-night…fight.
Kristin: Fight. [laughs] Yeah. And then everyone goes to sleep at, like, 9 AM or 8 AM or whatever time it is.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Leaving Dawn alone, again.
Jenny: And hey, I think it's worth noting that, as the pods—as the resident pod pancake expert, I just wanna call some bullshit on, "oh, my pancake is burning. You can tell because the side that's up is burned?"
Kristin: [simultaneously, laughing] Yeah, Tara burned that shit before she left.
Jenny: That's not how pancakes work. [both laugh] No, no—she did a—the old sweep 'n' flip. [Kristin laughs] No, that didn't happen. This is bullshit.
Kristin: Yeah. So Willow's upstairs. We learn that—to your point, actually, last episode—Jenny, you were wondering about if Amy had sort of gathered magic in her rat body. Like, if it had accumulated? We don't have a clear answer, but this does give us the sense that you can deplete your magic by overusing it. Because Willow now is in bed and she's trying to close the curtains and she can't. I mean, she can. She just has to stand up and walk over to them and close them with her hands. I'm sure you might have something to say about the depletion of magic, but before we get there, I just wanna also say that there's still fucking masks on the goddamn walls of this house. Pat fucking died because of these masks, and they are just still up in former Joyce's room.
Jenny: Joyce. Oh, I guess Joyce is no longer responsible.
Kristin: It's not Joyce's—yeah. It's not Joyce's fault. It's Willow and Tara's fault.
Jenny: Y'all!
Kristin: Take the masks down.
Jenny: [sighs] Okay. Research at the Magic Box for a diamond-thief demon, going absolutely nowhere. And Anya knows it. That's why she has chosen to stuff a bridal magazine—classic, classic move—stuff a bridal magazine inside one of the research tomes.
Kristin: [laughs] Uh, Jenny. Anya has a new hair color. Anya is—
Jenny: It's blond!
Kristin: Blond! Anya is blond!
Jenny: Blond-ya!
Kristin: Also, you breezed right by Xander being like, all these demons are starting to look alike, reptiles, reptiles with gills. Because I wrote down, "Jenny will know if reptiles can have gills." Can reptiles have gills?
Jenny: Fish have gills. We all know it. But reptiles have lungs for breathing. Amphibians, actually—it's interesting. Because some amphibians breathe with their lungs. Some amphibians breathe through their skin.
Kristin: Right! That sounds familiar.
Jenny: Tadpoles and some aquatic amphibians also have gills that they use for breathing.
Kristin: Right. So reptiles—
Jenny: But no lizards. No lizard gills.
Kristin: So reptile—
Jenny: Reptiles.
Kristin: Reptiles have lungs and that means they—they resolutely do not have gills.
Jenny: Cor—
Kristin: You can't have gills and lungs. At the same time.
Jenny: I can't wait for the avalanche of emails…[Kristin laughs] that you will receive.
Kristin: But the amount we're gonna know about biology by the time we're done with this podcast. You know, we've learned so much about clams. I know we've done some, like, shark, whale conversations.
Jenny: Yep. Yep.
Kristin: So bring it on. Hey, um, let's talk about one of my favorite moments in the episode. I'm gonna play a little sound clip.
NOTES: [Clip from episode plays]
Xander: Anya has a theory. She thinks that Martha Stewart froze that guy.
Anya: Don't be ridiculous. Martha Stewart isn't a demon. She's a witch.
Xander: Please, she could—really?
Anya: Of course. Nobody could do that much decoupage without calling on the powers of darkness.
Kristin: Um, I love this. Do you know what decoupage is, Jenny?
Jenny: No.
Kristin: Do you wanna take a guess?
Jenny: I'm picturing some kind of, like…paper mache. Textured—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Wall business that nobody asked for. How did I do?
Kristin: Wall business. So like, this is happening on a wall, like, instead of wallpaper?
Jenny: Yeah. Like, to make your wall feel like a cave.
Kristin: [laughs] Cave?
Jenny: Like a textured cave.
Kristin: [laughs] Jenny—Jenny's idea of decoupage is like, you at age 12 using paper mache to make your bedroom like a small cave for your reptiles.
Jenny: Yeah. Or like, Eugene Tooms in The X-Files, just rising every…[Kristin laughs] you know, 60 years or whatever to eat four human livers. And then building a nest of newspaper and his own bile for the hibernation period to follow.
Kristin: Wow! That took a—
Jenny: Is that decoupage? Is Eugene Tooms the original Martha Stewart?
Kristin: [simultaneously] That took a turn down Jenny Owen Youngs Lane, harder than I thought we were going to. [laughs] You know, you're not that far off, really. It—I don't know that people use decoupage on their walls, but maybe they do? It's more like a crafty thing, so you—
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: Like, cut out, you know, a flower and then you use, like, a paste and some, like, gold stuff and you put it on another thing. So you—it's like collaging, basically. It's like fancy collaging.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: I love that in the span of four seconds, we activated all of amphibian and reptile listenership, and then craft listenership. Please—I wait for the email of the crafty person who also is a reptile expert.
Jenny: Ooh!
Kristin: Tell if you tick both boxes. Come to us and let us know your presence. [laughs] Decoupage me a reptile! Okay. [clears throat] Anya is wondering if she should go with cocktail dresses [laughs] or the traditional burlap and larva. Jenny, what are you doing? Jenny's face is horrified right now. What have you found in your Googling?
Jenny: Sorry, I was reading about alligator gar. 'Cause I was like, wait, should I just check and see if alligators have gills? 'Cause like, what if they did? And I came across a whole thing about alligator gar having gills but also, they have a highly vascularized swim bladder lung that supplements gill respiration. Only to find out that alligator gar is actually a type of fish, not a type of alligator. Or a stage of life. For an alligator.
Kristin: [simultaneously] What the fuck—wait. Alligator gar? Like, G-A-R?
Jenny: Yep.
Kristin: Is the name of a fish.
Jenny: That's right.
Kristin: Oh my god. Here you thought we were gonna be talking about Willow and magic. But no, not here! Not here in this podcast. [laughs]
Jenny: Uh…
Kristin: Alright.
Jenny: Okay. Sorry, I'll—I'm done. About gills.
Kristin: So traditional burlap and larva or cocktail dresses. Anya is trying—
Jenny: The eternal question!
Kristin: The true—I mean, you know. We've both had a wedding and we know that these are the kinds of questions you really have to ask yourself. She also says to Xander—
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: So glad that—you should be basically happy that I'm not making you do the traditional groom's rite of self-flagellation. [laughs]
Jenny: Nice.
Kristin: And then we enter into—I mean, not that we're entering into this parallel for the first time. But Buffy is starting to go really hard on, "Willow is fine and Willow doesn't need a monitor. She's going through something, but we're not her. Maybe she has reasons. We all do stupid stuff."
Jenny: Yeah, "it's all very complicated. I can relate. I mean, just in theory and from things I've read, not from actual in practice-ness, please, thank you."
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: "Look away!"
Kristin: Right. So Buffy's sort of icky, overwhelmed feelings about her own actions—and really, her own trauma, right? Because all of this—this episode made me look at two things very distinctly. Because the entire arc—to get meta for a second. The entire arc in this episode of Willow's trauma, Buffy's trauma, and how the lack of tools that they have to deal with those traumas are causing them to do things that are self-destructive, is quite brilliant and quite spot-on. But—and I'll get into this later in the episode—there are so many—Willow, specifically—there are so many, like, really problematic tropes that are associated with Willow's journey, that are very upsetting, that I find to be very upsetting and unnecessary. So I'm just gonna put that down, but we can go through this scene. Buffy is not seeing what Willow is going through or needing, because she is completely conflating it with her own situation. And they are not apples to apples. They're not apples. No apples here.
Jenny: [sighs] I wish that there were some apples.
Kristin: [laughs, clears throat] Xander makes a really important distinction, before we leave the end of this scene. Because Buffy's basically like, "Don't judge." And he, like, very astutely is like, "I'm not judging. I am just observing." You know, he says, "not judgey, just observey" 'cause he's Xander. But like, making a really valid point, like, that he isn't judging—I mean, I don't know. I can't get inside Xander's head. But the point is not that he is saying, this is so bad that she's doing this. It's just that he's saying, like, this seems like it might not be good for her. And I'm observing that and just sort of wondering, like, what we should do to help her. [laughs] Which is like, really—
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Yes. That's where we should be.
Jenny: [sighs] Yeah, I mean. When Xander's coming up from the back of the herd to—
Kristin: I know.
Jenny: Lead the pack in terms of emotional awareness—
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: We're really in a place.
Kristin: We are. [laughs] That's true.
Jenny: My, how he's grown. [Kristin laughs] Cut to two cool witches [Kristin laughs] thinking about, where should we go manifest some sheep tonight? [Kristin laughs] But no! Willow is like, I didn't have my power all day. And I'm—I feel like maybe we should just take it easy. And Amy says, I have a better idea.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: I know this guy and he knows spells that last for days. Amy, how do you know this guy?!
Kristin: How?! That's what I wrote. How?
Jenny: How do you know this guy?
Kristin: Let's just dial back.
Jenny: Let's just revisit the MOO episode.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Amy was hanging out with, like, the goth guy with the black lipstick—
Kristin: Right, sure.
Jenny: And like, maybe one other person and they were doing, like, protection spells or something.
Kristin: Right. But like, not—
Jenny: What?
Kristin: Not Rack level stuff.
Jenny: No!
Kristin: At all. Yeah, I had the same question.
Jenny: Definitely some Amy rewrites happening.
Kristin: [laughs] Literally, in my notes, I wrote down, quote, "I know this guy." End quote, in parentheses, "how?" [both laugh] 'Cause like, really, how? But yes. And then Willow says, "Is it dangerous?" and Amy says, "Would that stop you?" To which, we know—we all know, Amy included, that the answer is no. It will not stop Willow. And we go to Rack's. Rack is, as mentioned, played by Jeff Kober. This the second time he's in the series. Love when a show loves an actor so much that they're like, "yeah, it's fine. He played Kralik in Helpless, but like, he's great." And he is fucking great.
Jenny: So great.
Kristin: He is unbelievable. He was great as Kralik and he's amazing as Rack.
Jenny: Yeah, what a creep.
Kristin: Ugh!
Jenny: So good.
Kristin: You know that those contact experts were on set for Rack, 'cause he's got some, like, serious, like, weird gray eyes happening.
Jenny: He's got some wild shit going on.
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah, it's really—it's quite well done, I think.
Jenny: Kristin, did you happen to notice the water cooler—
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: That appears to be full of blood? [laughs] In the waiting room?
Kristin: [simultaneously] Yes, and I thought, why don't they have this at Angel Investigations? [laughs]
Jenny: [simultaneously] How thoughtful. Right?
Kristin: [laughing] 'Cause it's really smart. But also, like, are vampires going to Rack? Like, I don't really understand it but I did write down, "blood water cooler?"
Jenny: I guess, just depends what you're into.
Kristin: That's true.
Jenny: Amy's like, "It's cloaked, isn't that cool? It moves around a lot, too, helps keep Rack out of trouble." Out of trouble from whom?! [Kristin laughs] How do you know this guy and how—who's monitoring him? Who's trying to be the trouble in his life?
Kristin: Right? Joel Grey was just flickin' his tail all about town. Nobody cared about the dark magic he was doing.
Jenny: Correct.
Kristin: So why does anybody care about Rack? Anyway, yeah, Amy's like, "Can't you feel the doorway?" And I think Willow is like, "It's hot." And Amy turns around and Elizabeth Anne Allen's look as she disappears through the door is—
Jenny: Yeah, what a great look.
Kristin: Oh my god, it's amazing. I mean, I would follow fucking Amy through that—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Portal for that look. [laughs]
Jenny: Inconsistencies aside, I'm pumped for us and for Elizabeth Anne Allen—
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: That she gets to play this completely different character. [both laugh]
Kristin: Well, and that's part of the issue, is like, they're just…for whatever reason, and we'll talk—you know, we're gonna do a deeper dive episode. We were supposed to—we probably said this up in the intro. But we were—our plan was initially to do our big conversation with Natalie, who you heard a couple episodes ago, before we got to Wrecked. But we need a little bit more time with it, just to make sure that it is responsible in as many ways as it can be. But the speed at which—[laughs] W-H-I-C-H, not…[both laugh] W-I-T-C-H—this happens, this journey happens for Willow—like, Amy aside. Like, even if we take Amy out of the equation, it's just—it's very heavy-handed and in a way that is…irresponsible. I think—
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: In storytelling. So—
Jenny: Kinda clunky.
Kristin: Kinda clunky. Oh, actually, this is perfect. Because this is the first note that I took about, like, okay. So—indulge me for a moment, Jenny. Because I wanna talk about some of the images that this episode gives us that are really fucked up. And not because—they're fucked up because there's no, like, underbelly to them. We go into Rack's and the first thing that we see is people sitting on the couch. The—the office—Rack's office is made to look, like, dirty and dingy, for absolutely no believable reason. This is a magic portal. So like, the idea—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: We hear it later from Dawn that, like, the guy in waiting room smelled bad. So like, this dirt and uncleanliness is immediately attached to the people that are using magic from Rack. There's, like, a girl in the corner who has, like, dark circles under her eyes. Willow, we see through this episode, having less and less clothing on her body. There's an exchange—and we'll get to the actual thing, but I wanna sort of, like, list these in a row. There's an exchange between Willow and Rack that seems very sexual in nature for the drug that is magic.
Jenny: Yeegh!
Kristin: And there's an element of criminality completely inserted into this. To your point about why does Rack need to hide? No one else has needed to hide. So these are, like—it's not that we can't talk about, like, the exchange of sex for drugs. It's not that we can't talk about criminality in the world of drugs and of, like, substance use and what have you. But these are just laid on. They're—to use Martha Stewart, they are just decoupaged the fuck on to this storyline—
Jenny: Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah.
Kristin: And it's really, really irresponsible, because this is not the whole—this is not how you tell this story. Willow could be using magic in ways that are unhealthy for her without having to associate the use of drugs with all of these tropes that are really not helpful to people who are misusing substances. That's it. My rant is over, okay? We can move along.
Jenny: [laughs] One way we know Rack is very powerful instantly is that he knows without being told that Amy was a rat. [Kristin laughs] He's just got a sense for these things.
Kristin: It's that twitchy little nose, you know? [laughs]
Jenny: Uh-huh, uh-huh. We see him—
Kristin: He's like, I Dream of Jeannie? No. Rat. Former rat.
Jenny: There are a lot of bad effects on this show. But I think when Rack, like, rubs his hands together—
Kristin: [pleased] Ugh.
Jenny: And they spark and stuff. Like, all the electricity magic business around Rack, I think looks very cool.
Kristin: It's fantastic. I took the same note, because I fucking love the hand crackle. It's done beautifully.
Jenny: He's really interested in Willow. He says power is coming off of her in waves.
Kristin: Yeah. I mean, listen, Sweet noticed it. Everybody's been noticing the—
Jenny: Now, if power's coming off of somebody in waves and you're intrigued, this guy read The Pickup Artist. [Kristin laughs] 'Cause he's like, "Wow, you got all this power. Oh, Amy said? How did Amy say you could—ugh." He just starts, like, negging her immediately. [laughs]
Kristin: Yeah, yeah.
Jenny: And we're off to the races. You gotta give a little—[gags]—to get a little—[gags].
Kristin: Yeah, and this is [gags]-y in many ways. And Amy, like, doubles—Amy's scripted line doubles down on this. "It's over fast." Rack says, "I'm just gonna take a little tour." And then sort of like, puts his hand on Willow and we are to imagine is doing all sorts of things. And it's upsetting.
Jenny: There's a lot of heavy breathing, panting.
Kristin: Yeah. And—
Jenny: Blegh, he says, "You taste like strawberries."
Kristin: He says—right.
Jenny: We all hurl over the side of the boat.
Kristin: Yes. He says, "You taste like strawberries." Um, I would say…maybe write this in your Shanshu prophecies.
Jenny: Mmm! Okay. Buckle up, Kristin.
Kristin: Okay!
Jenny: Buckle up! Because—
Kristin: Click! Click! [laughs]
Jenny: It's…it's—well, it's not the 90s anymore, but it might as well be. Because we've got this, like—[both laugh] fucking music and spin—[clip from episode starts to play in the background; music and ambient sound effects] Amy is spinning. Willow's on the ceiling. Rack is—
Kristin: We are in Trainspotting.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Trainspotting, colon, Sunnydale.
NOTES: [Music from clip gets louder, before fading out]
Jenny: Willow is—from her vantage point of being on the ceiling, she is like, looking down and then starts kind of hallucinating greenery all over the—and then she sees a woman being dragged.
Kristin: Ooh, that's creepy. I will—like—
Jenny: That is creepy.
Kristin: That was pretty creepy.
Jenny: But then you know what's not creepy? [both laugh]
Kristin: Tell me.
Jenny: 'Cause you would think that this would be moving in a steady, you know, ascent to the creepiest thing of all. But instead, we get the creepiest thing of all, the woman's legs being dragged into the underbrush. And then we see…[Kristin laughs] yet another…[laughs] yet another goofy-ass Sunnydale demon. Sort of like a…[Kristin laughs] like a balding werewolf, kind of vibe. [Kristin laughs] Or something.
Kristin: It is a were—his movements are exact—it's whoever the actor was who was inside the werewolf costume, is inside of this costume. [laughs]
Jenny: There's something that's—there are elements that have been added that we can talk about when we get to his final scene. I can't wait to talk about it, actually.
Kristin: I can't wait either. I'm making a GIF from that scene. What did I tell you his name was? Krizzan? Krizzow?
Jenny: Like, Magaz!
Kristin: Magaz.
Jenny: Mctraz!
Kristin: [laughing] I can't find my notes.
Jenny: Razzmatazz! Give him the old razzle dazzle. [both laugh]
Kristin: Razzmatazz is the name of—canonically. We have, uh, named this monster Razzmatazz.
Jenny: What is his actual name in the script?
Kristin: Mandraz!
Jenny: No! [laughs] Mandraz. Okay, so Razzmatazz—Razzmatazz is on the scene. [Kristin laughs] And he, like, growls or opens his mouth or does something, trying to look threatening and failing. Okay.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Question—
Kristin: All I can think—I know this isn't the song, but the only thing I have in my head now is [singing] "With my naked eye, I saw—"
Jenny: Oh yeah. [Kristin keeps singing tune] There is, like, a certain Luscious Jackson-ness.
Kristin: Right?
Jenny: To this track.
Kristin: Ohh. So Willow sees Razzmatazz and falls from the ceiling. [Jenny groans] And there's this cut—there's this, like, cut between when we get to her waking up on the floor of her bedroom, and after she's fallen, where it's black eyes Willow. Like, completely, no—what do you call—no whites of the eye.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: It's just like, all pupil. And she's standing in front of a few places. And I know that the last one is the Magic Box. And then she's on the floor.
Jenny: She's in the Bronze—
Kristin: Bronze?
Jenny: And then in front of the Magic Box. Why? What is this? What's happening?
Kristin: I know. That's what—I was like, do I go back and like, really look at where she was? Is there deeper meaning here? And I decided, probably not. So let me know if I'm wrong.
Jenny: I'm wondering, since she wakes up on the floor of her bedroom…if she kind of, like, blacked out and is having, like, flashes of places she went to on her way home?
Kristin: Right, but are we to believe that she went to the Bro—I mean. Or not the Bronze, but the Magic Box. You'd think people would be there who would have interacted with her if she went there.
Jenny: But it was like, the nighttime.
Kristin: That's true. That's true. Maybe that's what we are to believe, that she sort of, like, went to these familiar places as she was, like, super fucked up on magic.
Jenny: Yeah, and when she wakes up on the floor, like, it's the morning.
Kristin: Yeah. This is—
Jenny: So.
Kristin: You know, in an episode that is full of, like, imagery that I think is tricky and not good, this, I think, is done really well. We don't see—like, there's not a lot of shower scenes in this show. And so, I think—
Jenny: Not nearly enough! [Kristin laughs] For my taste.
Kristin: [laughs] I think that it is really powerful to see Willow wake up on the floor, and then to see her crying in the shower. Because this is the truth, right? Like, when I'm saying, like, there's no fucking, like, underbelly. It's the wrong thing. I'm Kristin, so you know I say things like "underbelly" but I mean something else. Just go with me. But when I say that there's not that, like, rooted-ness in, you know, a lot of the tropes associated with Willow's arc at this point. This does have that. This does have an anchor. We know that Willow is traumatized. We know that she is not okay. So seeing her wake up after this trip to Rack's and get into the shower and sob, like, that is the root of her actions at this point. And I just thought it was really powerful and I felt for her. And then, you know, I don't know, Jenny. You can take us to what she does after she gets out of the shower.
Jenny: Well, it's the saddest thing that ever happens on the show, Kristin.
Kristin: Right?
Jenny: She uses—Chekhov's box of Tara's clothes coming into use! [Kristin laughs] She pulls out a top and a bottom and she magics air into them in the shape of Tara—
Kristin: Ugh.
Jenny: So that the faux Tara can hold her. And it's very sad.
Kristin: It's so sad. I tried to, like—maybe there's something I can laugh at here. And you know what? The sad just really overrides everything I tried to make funny. It's—there's nothing funny. It's devastating. And, um, I think it's quite nice though that Tara—one of Tara's garments was velvety, you know? Like, it's like, extra soft to cuddle on.
Jenny: [laughs] Nice. Like you're surprised? Please.
Kristin: [laughs] Dawn, in the kitchen, throwing insults at Cordelia Chase. "Spatulas are for wimps."
Jenny: Well! Listen. Everything is relative. Right now, the spatula is relative to a pan. I'm sure if the spatula were relative to a vampire—
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: Dawn would get on board.
Kristin: That's true.
Jenny: But I'm loving her chaotic kitchen energy. Inventing food for babies, flipping things in a pan with her fingertips. I'm fucking all in. This is my favorite Dawn. Chef Dawn is my fave.
Kristin: This is relatable content. Did this—like, this took me back to being in middle school and coming home and being like, I will cook myself—do you know how many quesadillas I made for myself as a teen? A lot.
Jenny: I don't.
Kristin: A lot. Quesadilla is like—quesadilla, grilled cheese, and Ramen soup are like, the first three things that you learn how to make, if you're me, anyway.
NOTES: [laughs]
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: So I thought this was very relatable. It reminded me of my own kitchen chaos past. Also, to my earlier point about loving Dawn and Dawn just, like, really starting to get some nuance—some more nuance to her character. [giggles] She says to Willow, "Well, you know, assuming would make you an ass out of me." So—[laughs]
Jenny: Nice.
Kristin: It's so good! It's so good.
Jenny: It's a mess. But we learn that Buffy has called to check in on Dawn about ten times today. Which seems right.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: And Willow and Dawn are gonna go to the movies! Ahhh! [Kristin sighs] [singsong] Girl time! What do you think they're going to see?
Kristin: Oh, I'll tell you, Jenny. Some of the top movies at this time. Monsters Inc is on the list. Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone had just come out.
Jenny: Oooh!
Kristin: Yeah, so I'm gonna say—I think that they woulda gone to Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone. It seems really…right?
Jenny: Aww.
Kristin: Jeepers Creepers had come out just a couple months prior. American Pie 2. Willow could go watch Willow. I don't know if she was in the second one, actually. [laughs]
Jenny: Ha! Heh.
Kristin: Oh my god, and Jenny, guess what else came out in 2001?
Jenny: What?
Kristin: Legally…Blond.
Jenny: Ohh! A movie I look forward to seeing so soon.
Kristin: Yes. Jenny—Jenny's participating in our new movie club, with Morgan Lutich from Angel On Top, and watching Legally Blond for the very first time. So…that's exciting.
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: Anyway. Moving right along. They don't ever make it to the fucking movies, do they?
Jenny: They sure don't, Kristin.
Kristin: Ughhh! Dawn leaves a note on the fridge, so that Buffy will know where she and Willow have gone. Because that is, quote, [Jenny laughs] "the first place she goes after patrolling." Five by five, baby.
Jenny: Um…five what? [Kristin laughs] Buffy comes home. And hears some crashing about upstairs. Discovers Willow's room is torn apart and it's Amy, stealing sage?
Kristin: Yeah. I don't understand—
Jenny: A very readily available herb, that you could just snag at the grocery store? Honestly, in Southern California, you might find some just growing on the street.
Kristin: I mean, well, this is the—this is the thing, right? Like, they didn't have to insert this, like, criminality to the storyline. Amy could have just been at the house, because that's where Amy's been. And Buffy could have had a conversation with Amy about where Willow is. Like, it didn't have to be that Amy is, like, filling her pockets with sage. I do like the joke of, "it's not what you think it is, it's sage." [both laughing] And Buffy being like, "that's what I fucking thought it was." 'Cause I feel like many of us in this era were like, it's just sage. I'm just burning sage. Anyway. Amy tells Buffy, "She's as bad as I am. She's worse. She's at Rack's." [laughs] She says, don't—this also made me laugh. "Don't shake me again, Super Strength. I think I'm gonna boot." [both laugh] Just good, from Elizabeth Anne Allen.
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: This scene doesn't make any sense, for all the reasons that we just said. And I also just wanna point out that it is so fucked up that Amy is—so let's say that this really was—this really was the way it happened. Amy is in Willow's room. She's stealing things from Willow's room. She's saying, "I'm not okay and Willow's also not okay." And nobody—like, Buffy just leaves. It's like, the fact that, like, no one is—like, that Buffy can't even get to a point where she can be like, this person is also in need of some kind of help. Not that she has to—you know, I understand she needs to help Dawn and she needs to, like, prioritize that. But she basically is like, you're fucked up because you're here and you're stealing shit. Rather than like, why are you here and what is happening? Right?
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Which is just the fucking constant thing that is upsetting about this storyline. Anyway, outside—
Jenny: Yeah. [Kristin sighs] Can somebody take care of these teens and young adults, please?!
Kristin: Like, please! Giles, the fuck? I'm just gonna get mad at him every episode.
NOTES: [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah. Wow, yeah, you're really feeling Giles's absence in this episode.
Kristin: Yeah. I mean, just any—the presence of—honestly, even, like—
Jenny: Any adult.
Kristin: Any adult, but like—
Jenny: Would do.
Kristin: Xander seems to have the tools to understand when somebody—at least at this point in his journey—when somebody is asking or in need of help. But like, everyone—so many of the characters in this show are so deep into their own trauma, that they can't see the trauma of the others around them. Like, they're just in it. Fucking in it. Season 6—Buffy the Vampire Slayer, Season 6, colon, in it. [Jenny laughs] Willow is sort of like, poking at getting information about Tara. "Did you have fun with Tara? Where she's living? What is she doing?" And then she is like, "We just have to make one quick stop." It almost goes without saying that this is unbelievable. Like, this is not believable. And it's only because of the speed at which we get here! This is—this is immediate, that she's—
Jenny: So fast.
Kristin: It's so fast. But we'll put that to the side. They go to Rack's. They really—I think that the writing in this episode does a good job of positioning Dawn as somebody who is—you know, she's just like, really wanting to be with Willow. She's just wanting to have any sense of normalcy. And I think that just the simple line of Willow being like, "It's okay, we'll only miss the trailers" and she goes into the room. And Dawn is left alone in the lobby and she's just like, "I like the trailers." I just thought it, like, really did the work it was there to do. You know?
Jenny: Yeah. Also, I like the trailers too, Dawn.
Kristin: [laughs] I know, I do too. I do too. I mean, I think that's, like, a common thing, right? People enjoy trailers?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: This is where I agree with you. I wrote, "I love Rack's hand crackle." Just a fantastic effect. Willow, you know, loses time in Rack's. And sees the demon again, [laughs] sees ol' Razzmatazz again. And she screams and Rack is, I think, notably taking enjoyment from her fear and pain, before she then comes out into the—into the lobby again.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: Ooh, my next note is "nakey Spike." [laughs]
Jenny: Dude apparently loves to sleep naked.
Kristin: Spike is literally naked for 80% of this episode. [laughs]
Jenny: Nice!
Kristin: I mean—
Jenny: Dude, being woken up by a huge pillar candle tossed onto your naked chest? Uh, disruptive!
Kristin: Yeah. Spike looks good. Mm! Ba-ba-ba. Mmm-ba-ba-ba.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: Spike looks good. He is basically like, Dawn's in trouble again? Must be Tuesday. Except his version of that is [laughs] can you get a lojack for this girl? Which—
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: For those of you who don't know what a lojack is, it's like a car alarm and tracking system.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: And I agree.
Jenny: You know, maybe this is just the difference between your generation and mine, Kristin.
Kristin: [bursts out laughing] Wow!
Jenny: [laughs] 'Cause I recently was reading, actually, that the cut-off for Gen X is people who were born in 1980. And the beginning of millennials—
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: Is people born in 1981—
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: So it's really thrown into sharp relief—
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: Our many generational differences. [both laugh]
Kristin: Oookay.
Jenny: This vast chasm that spans between us.
Kristin: It's true. It's true.
Jenny: I—it's so hard to understand you sometimes.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Those eleven months were formative for me. Formative. [both laugh] Ugh, god. So…
Jenny: [burst out laughing] Okay.
Kristin: [laughs] So Spike knows Rack. Of course he does, right? Spike is useful. That's the thing. And he calls that out later in his conversation with Buffy. Spike is important to their work. He knows immediately who Rack is and—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: He is able to help because he is a vampire so he can feel this portal in a way that allegedly, Buffy can't—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Although aren't we led to believe that Buffy could, at this point? 'Cause she's not…whatever.
Jenny: Well! We just know she came back a little different. We don't know…
Kristin: How.
Jenny: Yeah. She also doesn't know what she's, like, looking for.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: She doesn't know she's—like, it's not like Amy was like, feel around for a hot spot. [both laugh]
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: You know?
Kristin: True.
Jenny: Rack probably owes Spike some kittens. I'm guessing that's how they kind of have come—crossed paths in the past.
Kristin: Definitely, definitely. Rack is part of poker Sundays. Spike stands up, nakey, totally nakey. [both laugh]
Jenny: Buffy averts her eyes. "Ohh!"
Kristin: Yes, and he says, "Hide your blushing eyes." Do you think that she hides her eyes because she's showing him that she is disgusted or do you think that she is, like, literally hiding her eyes because she's like, oh no, if I see nakey Spike, I might have to kiss nakey Spike again? [both laugh] What do you think it—
Jenny: Probably a little from column A, a little from column B!
Kristin: [laughing, simultaneously] Yeah, a little from column B, yeah. Totally. Alright, so it's fucking, like, 11 o'clock. They've missed the whole fucking—the Sorcerer's Stone. What's the movie? Harry Potter and the…
Jenny: Sorcerer's—
Kristin: Razzmatazz. Yep.
Jenny: Yep.
Kristin: They've missed the movie and Willow is pretty fucked up.
Jenny: She's high as hell!
Kristin: Mm, yeah. She's like, "We're gonna have fun!" And then she's…kinda shitty about it. And Dawn's hesitant, and she's like, "Do you wanna play with the grown-ups or not?"
Jenny: Dude, I love that—"the grown-ups." It—both Rack and Willow. The grown-ups—the self-proclaimed grown-ups are both like, meh-meh-meh-meh! [both laugh] Each in turn.
Kristin: Yeah, Dawn's like, um…okay, guys.
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah, cool, guys. I'm gonna go home.
Kristin: [groans] Speaking of grown-ups. We go to a conversation between Spike and Buffy in the alley—in an alley. One of the many. Buffy is like—
Jenny: Extra—a lot of extra alleys. The alley budget has skyrocketed in this episode.
Kristin: [laughs] Seriously. "Last night was the most perverse and degrading experience of my life," she says. He—[laughs]
Jenny: And Spike is like, "Mm, yeah, me too." [both laugh]
Kristin: Yeah, it's complicated! This is complicated. We're not gonna fucking mess around and try to say that this is all one thing, because it is not. It is confusing as fuck. And Spike is like, "Well, you know that I'm in love with you." And then Buffy is like, "Yeah, well, whatever this is, like, it's not love." And Spike says, "Not yet, but I'm in your system now. You invited me in already."
Jenny: Eww!
Kristin: Yeah. So this is—this is now in yuck squared territory.
Jenny: Unsubscribe.
Kristin: Right. The implication that, because you were invited in once, you can then enter at any time—the vampire lore, once applied here to this story, is especially fucked up. Isn't it? Oh!
Jenny: Yeah, ew.
Kristin: Is this a great time to play the Patriarchy jingle?
Jenny: This will do.
NOTES: [THE PATRIARCHY jingle plays] The patriarchy! [thunder clap, evil laughter]
Kristin: [sighs] Oh, boy. Well. Here we go, sliding down the back half of this episode. [Jenny laughs] Into a pit of despair.
Jenny: Yeah. Uh, ugh. Dawn wants to go home and Willow's like, "Maybe I can just pop you back." Willow!
Kristin: Willow.
Jenny: No!
Kristin: Then Dawn's like, "I feel like something's in the alley." And Razzmatazz is like, [sings jaunty tune], slam. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah, he's all like, [gravelly voice] "You summoned me, witch!" [Kristin laughs] And Willow's like, "No, no, I didn't, uh—I didn't summon you."
Kristin: Dawn—
Jenny: And he's all like, [gravelly voice] "You raised hell with your magics!" [Kristin laughs] And he does this, like, very avian head-wiggle—
Kristin: Yo!
Jenny: Like, side to side thing.
Kristin: The head-wiggle, like, after the car crash is—I'm making a GIF of it. It is the funniest fucking thing I've ever seen in my life. His head is on a full, like, swivel. It's like, on a lazy Susan. It's like—it's unbelievable. So…
Jenny: Yeah, it's wild.
Kristin: Dawn lands a fantastic kick. Fantastic kick from Dawn.
Jenny: Yeah, great kick.
Kristin: Willow's like, we're not quick enough. Uh, doors, open! Doors, close! Drive, car! And I'm like, wow, this is how we do magic? I could probably do this. [laughing] You know what I mean?
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: Doors, open!
Jenny: And this is going really well, in a practical sense, until immediately after successfully stealing this car, Willow gets way too cocky. And then crashes it. Willow!
Kristin: Yeah. It's just—this is—I'm sorry. I mean, I love Marti Noxon. But there's just so much sloppiness in this story. Because why did Willow have to be on a joyride to crash this car? Right, like, she could have been honestly in this car, trying to escape from this demon, and crashed the car because she was really fucked up. I don't like the addition that she also, like—as she's trying to, like, save Dawn's life, is like, oh, let's fucking take this car for a fucking crazy spin! It again attaches this element to Willow's storyline that I think is not necessary and it's not fleshed out. So, anyway. Regardless of that, the car crashes. And [laughs] Dawn gets out of the car. Her arm is already hurt, though it will get hurt more in this scene that's about to happen. Her instinct—
Jenny: This is like the outdoor equivalent of running upstairs.
Kristin: Literally.
Jenny: In a horror movie.
Kristin: Literally. She's like—
Jenny: "I'm just gonna get under the car."
Kristin: [laughing] "I'm gonna crawl under the car." That is a bad idea, my friend. Luckily, it never happens because Buffy and Spike hear her scream. This is where the—
Jenny: Hey, she does throw dirt in Razzmatazz's eyes, which is a very choice move.
Kristin: Oh. She's a scrappy fighter, man.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Dawn can fucking—Dawn can fight. And I love it. Also…Buffy does a flying kick. This is some wire shit. This is, like, some wire fighting that we're seeing.
Jenny: Yeah. [singsong] Hell yeah!
Kristin: She launches through the air, kicks Razzmatazz in the face. But Razzmatazz is getting the best of her. Razzmatazz is strong. But Willow disintegrates him.
Jenny: This is funny because in the framing that you see on Hulu, Willow is in the frame for longer than she would be.
Kristin: Oh.
Jenny: She comes into the frame sooner than she would have been in the aspect ratio of original broadcast. So you see Willow—like, you see the demon burn up. Then you see Willow off to the side, doing nothing, waiting for herself to come into frame. [Kristin laughs] And then they add the hand electricity effect.
Kristin: Ohh.
Jenny: So it's like—I was like, wait. Did Willow kill this guy or did he just, like, burn up from like, the spell running its course or something? And then I was like, oh, no, no, no. They just—they didn't—[Kristin laughs] they didn't add it until they had to. But now she's just, like, hanging out in the side of the frame. [laughs] It's pretty funny.
Kristin: Oh, that's funny. That's funny. I didn't even notice. So the demon is gone and Dawn is really fucked up. She's really, really hurt. Her arm is really hurt. She's bleeding. The seriousness of—
Jenny: The—Razzmatazz punched her, like, 20 feet across the frigging—
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Land.
Kristin: Yeah. And Willow is, of course, distraught, devastated, just full of all of the emotions that one would be feeling in this situation. And she's saying, "Is she okay? Is she okay?" Spike and Buffy pick Dawn up. They're sort of like, walking her out to get medical care. And Willow goes over to Dawn to apologize. And Dawn slaps Willow across the face.
Jenny: [low-whistles]
Kristin: Yep. Exactly. That's my sentiments exactly.
Jenny: Yikes!
Kristin: Dawn is—I mean, understandably. Dawn almost fucking died, so like, the anger that people are feeling in this scene, I think, makes sense.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: And I read that Michelle Trachtenberg really struggled with slapping Alyson Hannigan. And like, apologized profusely after the filming of this scene. [both laugh] Which I loved. And I also like this. So at first, it is that they are leaving Willow. But Willow is on the ground and she's sobbing. And so you see Spike and Dawn and Buffy pause. You see Spike and Buffy exchange a few words, and it becomes clear that Spike is taking Dawn to the hospital so that Buffy can stay back with Willow. So I love that.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: I think that that's really important and I guess a piece of this that I wish was more present in the whole story, in the whole episode. But Buffy says to Willow, "Get up." And Willow says…
NOTES: [Clip from episode plays]
Willow: [sobbing] I can't stop, Buffy. I've tried and I can't.
Buffy: You can.
Willow: [sobbing] I can't. I can't. I just—god, I need help. Please, please help me, please. Please. Please.
Jenny: And then Willow hugs Buffy. And Buffy stands there for a second and then she eventually hugs Willow back, staring over Willow's shoulder into the middle distance, envisioning a future where she doesn't bone Spike again.
Kristin: Mmhmm. They stop at the store on the way home, I think, to buy 400,000 pounds of garlic.
Jenny: So many garlic braids.
Kristin: Literally more garlic—
Jenny: You've never seen so many garlic braids!
Kristin: Literally never. Like, did she—did she get this from, like, her time with Dracula? Like, this is like, some Dracula-level garlic braids.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: We cut to Willow, like, wrapped in a blanket. Which I think is really—like, I'm just thinking about this for the first time. But I feel like even that imagery is really—that's really symbolic, right? Like, Buffy has—even though she's—Buffy's certainly not doing it perfectly and is not doing it well. Like, the choice has been made to take care of Willow, to wrap Willow up in a blanket, to acknowledge that there is trauma happening here. There is no support system, so Willow is left in bed to move through withdrawal, like, without any supports, which is, of course, not okay. And Buffy winds up in her room also sort of alone and just with all this garlic around her, holding a crucifix, in an attempt to really keep herself from Spike, more than keep Spike from her, at this point.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: Do you wanna journey to the land of sexual tension right now? Because I don't know what to do there, but we're almost to the end of the episode. There's just a few things left to be said. Wow!
Jenny: Yeah, let's give it a try.
Kristin: [sarcastically] How fun, can't wait for this jaunty jingle to play.
NOTES: [SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays] Sexual tension award!
Jenny: Well! Welcome back to another thrilling edition [Kristin laughs] of the Sexual Tension Awards. Unfortunately, there is…no sexual tension in this episode.
Kristin: None.
Jenny: That we care to acknowledge.
Kristin: But we are creative people.
Jenny: Yeah. We're looking at, you know, name a more iconic duo. That's the—
Kristin: [laughing] Yeah.
Jenny: Theme of this edition of the Sexual Tension Awards. [Kristin laughs] Therefore…we offer up unto you the following slots and their respective noms. In slot number one, it's Anya and bridal magazines. She loves them.
Kristin: Ahh. Beautiful.
Jenny: They're unstoppable.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: In the second slot, your noms are Buffy and 10,000 garlic braids. [singing] "When all you need is a knife!"
Kristin: There it is.
Jenny: In slot three, why, she's unstoppable, she has an indomitable spirit and invincible fingertips. It's Dawn and bare-handing an in-progress quesadilla! [Kristin laughs] Witness the power. [Kristin laughs] Behold the spectacle! And in slot number four…it's everyone's favorite magical drug-induced demon, Razzmatazz…and his unquenchable thirst for the drama!
Kristin: [laughs] Although, Jenny, don't you think it should be…[singing] "it's like 10,000 garlic braids when all you need is a stake!"
Jenny: Oh, I thought you were gonna say, [singing] "when all you need is a Spike!"
Kristin: Oh. [laughs]
Jenny: I guess, uh…
Kristin: Both, both.
Jenny: Flavor to taste. [laughs]
Kristin: Both slash and.
Jenny: Well, that's our Sexual Tension Award spread. A strange buffet, if you will.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: But please cast your vote via our Twitter poll. You can find it over @BufferingCast. Tell us what you think.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Tell us—name the most iconic duo. [laughs]
Kristin: Most iconic duo. Here. Good luck to all of us.
NOTES: [SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays] Sexual tension award!
Kristin: Alright, so…the scene before we see Willow in bed and Buffy surrounded by garlic braids is probably worth at least a small discussion. Because we get more of this parallel, right? Buffy asking Willow, "Why would you go to see somebody like Rack? Why would you put Dawn in danger?" Really asking herself why she would go sleep with somebody like Spike and why she would also put Dawn in danger.
Jenny: Right. I think it's important here that we see Willow acknowledging—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Further, like, what the deal is. Like, saying it out loud to Buffy.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: You know, "I thought I had it under control."
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: You know, it's why Tara left.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: All of this stuff, kinda…making it real…by saying it.
Kristin: Yeah, like, Buffy is like, "Is this because of Tara?" And she says, "No. This was before Tara and this is why Tara left." Which, I agree, is really, really important. Really important for Willow and just really important to the whole story. And we also get, like, a bit of Willow's internal monologue, past just the trauma of everything that has happened over the last year.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: But also this, like, idea that I was just plain Willow. She says, "I was just some girl," which really harkened back to Oz and Willow in the beginning, like, "who is that girl?" You know, like, I was just…some girl. And now, now that I have magic, I'm special. You know, I mean, she doesn't say those words. But essentially, that's the magic, that—she says to Buffy, like, "If you could choose plain Willow or Super Willow, wouldn't you choose Super Willow?" And sort of has, like, a moment of self-reflection of like, oh, I guess you don't actually get to choose. Like, you just always have to be Super Buffy, but—
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Buffy's trying to tell Willow, like, this is not the case. Tara loves you. She loves you for you, she wanted you to stop. It's not—she doesn't love you because of the magic. She doesn't love you because of this power. And another line that Willow has that I think is really important is when she says to Buffy, "It took me away from myself and I was free." 'Cause that's—again, that's just—that's really the truth of this. This is allowing Willow to escape from the feelings that she cannot hold. She cannot bear to face, she cannot bear to feel. And although I think there's a lot of issues in this parallel with Buffy, this is also what's happening with Buffy and Spike, is that Buffy just can't—like, they just can't navigate the trauma. And when you're in a—I mean, I know I've been in a place of not being able to navigate trauma and making decisions based on just the need to feel something, and not that thing. And that's real.
Jenny: Mmhmm. Oh, yeah.
Kristin: Yeah. No more spells. It's over. It's over.
Jenny: Buffy's like, "Good. I think it's right to give it up, no matter how good it feels."
Kristin: Oof.
Jenny: "The magic, I mean. [Kristin laughs] And you, not me."
Kristin: [laughs] Ohh! Well, I'm glad that they resolved all of that so that we can move along into new things this season.
Jenny: Does anyone know what the stinky yak cheese in her bra is for? Is that a reference to something? Do write in if you know.
Kristin: Yeah, I don't know. I'm just shaking my head at Jenny, like, I got—I have nothing. I thought that Anya was the one with stinky cheeses, but I guess Willow also partakes.
Jenny: Well!
Kristin: I do wanna just note, at the end of this episode, we see a memoriam for J.D. Peralta, which I looked up. And so I just thought it would be—I don't know, nice to note that this person, J.D. Peralta, was Marti Noxon's assistant. And she passed away of cancer just two weeks before this episode aired. [Jenny exhales] I know, it's very sad and I almost was like, well, maybe this episode is, like, really heavy but I just thought, you know, it was important that the show, like, paid tribute to her. And that in our discussion, we could as well. So…
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: This has been an episode. I just wanna say that—I just wanna remind everyone that we are, like, here for conversation. That we are doing our best to explore themes that we don't have a ton of familiarity with, and we're doing the research as best we can. But we're gonna miss things, we're gonna say things that probably aren't perfect. And—
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: The whole point of this is that it's ongoing. It's not like this is the episode on this and done.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: So do write in to us. We are working on this deeper dive episode to talk about Willow and the plot line of—sort of the, like, arc of her misuse of magic—that will have spoilers and will go deeper in. But it's tricky and it's one of many, many things in this season. So bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com. Write to us. I do my best to get to all the emails. I will say that it has gotten to a point where I no longer can confidently say I read every email. [laughs] Because—I try, but there's a lot. But I really, really go out of my way to read the emails that are part of these conversations, to make sure that we are doing so responsibly. So please do write in and let us know what you think, what you want us to talk about. Things that we didn't say that we should have, things that we did say that we shouldn't have. We're here.
Jenny: We are. Well. I'm Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: Hell yeah.
Jenny: And when I'm not making this podcast, I am often writing songs and recording them. You can learn more about me @JennyOwenYoungs. You can listen to my new EP, Echo Mountain. You can check out my new band L.A. Exes' debut single, Temporary Goodbye, on all streaming platforms. You can give me a shout on Twitter and keep up to date on new releases @JennyOwenYoungs. That's me!
Kristin: [singing] Temp-temporary!
Jenny: That's how it goes.
Kristin: I got it this time. I just hadn't really heard it enough times last time to nail it.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: I just wanted you to know that I can keep a tune. So. [both laugh]
Jenny: Congrats. I know!
Kristin: My name is Kristin Russo. You can learn about the work that I do with LGBTQ communities over at my website, kristinnoeline.com. That's K-R-I-S-T-I-N N-O-E-L-I-N-E. I am booking digital events at work places and at schools for the end of this year and the beginning of next. You can find ways to contact me about that on my website. And I also started a little queer book club, just a couple days ago, Jenny.
Jenny: Aww!
Kristin: Yeah, on my Patreon and you can find all that out on my website, kristinnoeline.com. We're reading Aristotle and Dante Discover the Secrets of the Universe, a book that I have wanted to read for a very long time. So you can find out all about that on my website.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: You can use that spelling of my name to find me on Twitter and on Instagram. And hey, what about us?
Jenny: Well!
Kristin: What about Buffering the Vampire Slayer?
Jenny: Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram, @BufferingCast. And you can email us at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin: You can support the work that we do here on our Patreon. Find that at bufferingthevampireslayer.com, just click on Patreon. We have so much going on. Jenny's about to do a concert over there. We just started a movie watch club where Jenny's gonna watch Legally Blond for the first time. I run a book club. We're reading Elatsoe as our next book for April. I mean, it's just—truly, it is a-moving and a-shaking. Just like Razzmatazz's little head. So go on over, support us if you can. And a reminder that our black and indigenous listenership gets all of the digital perks on our Patreon for free. You can learn about that at bufferingthevampireslayer.com/JustKeepFighting. Also hey, crop tops and tank tops are back in stock.
Jenny: Woo!
Kristin: Big Fucking Nerds. I say this, but they were back in stock when we taped this, so who knows? Maybe you snatched 'em all up already, [laughs] but they should be in the store. You can click on Shop to find out all that good stuff.
Jenny: Hooray!
Kristin: Hoo-ray.
Jenny: And…till next time!
Both: Awwwwooooooooooooo!
Jenny: [singsong] Hurray. ["Wrecked" plays off the album "Songs from Season Six" by Buffering the Vampire Slayer]