Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 3.07: Revelations
Jenny: Hey everybody! We’re heading into a live episode here that we taped at The NerdMelt Showroom with special guests Ira Madison III, Kristine Thune, and Kate Leth, plus a surprise guest. You’ll never see this one coming.
Kristin: [laughs]
Jenny: But before we get into that, we want to tell you a few things!
Kristin: First of all, happy belated Halloween by just a handful of minutes here in Los Angeles. We saw so many incredible Halloween costumes. Jenny and I had a very good time dressing up as Joyce and Giles circa Band Candy. If you didn’t get to see our costumes, they are up, the pictures are up on Patreon. You can find our Patreon page, as always, over on bufferingthevampireslayer.com, just click on Patreon. And of course, you know, you can find other fun things over there, not just the most fun thing, which is us dressed up as Joyce and Giles.
Jenny :[laughs] In addition to being incredible Halloween costumers here in the land of Buffering, you are also very good at carving pumpkins! We did a pumpkin carving contest where many of you carved Buffy themed or Buffering The Vampire Slayer themed pumpkins. We picked our winner and that too is up on Patreon with some of our very favorite pumpkins that you carved. A lot of Awoooos, some stakes, one with a "Vampyr" book, very, very creative and brilliant stuff happening in the land of pumpkins. If you want to be part of the fun pumpkin-carving giveaways, we won’t be carving pumpkins in November, but we will be doing more giveaways in the land of social media. You can always follow us on Twitter, Facebook, or Instagram @bufferingcast.
Jenny: And as we were reminded while we were buying pumpkins in the pumpkin patch erected in a CVS parking lot the other day, it is almost Christmas. There are Christmas trees up in CVS, gee whiz! November 1st equals Christmas is the vibe.
Kristin: You’re gonna start hearing about Jenny’s love for Michael Buble very soon.
Jenny: That theme will play heavily into the November/December episodes of Buffering the Vampire Slayer, don’t even worry about it! But, if you have a friend who loves Buffering the Vampire Slayer or loves smashing the demon lizard patriarchy or loves howling wolves, we want to remind you that we have some gift options for you up in our store at bufferingtheslayer.com just click on [sings in high register] shop!
Kristin: Yeah, we’ll be doing our very best to keep everything in stock as we get further into November and into early December. But like, ya know, if you’re a smart shopper like Jenny’s mom, Jenny’s mom shops what, Roxie...
Jenny: Year-round.
Kristin: Roxie starts shopping… forget it.
Jenny: She starts shopping December 26th, so–
Kristin: So, if you’re as smart as Roxie you should probably hop on in there now, grab what you need and run before it gets really nuts.
Both: [laugh]
Kristin: Um, last but not least, before we go into this live episode, which we had so much fun taping, we want to let you know that because it’s November that means that we’re doing five more handwritten lyric sheets. If this is the first you’ve heard of it, every month, we started in September, every month we’re doing five handwritten lyric sheets, we sell them for $100 each, and all of the proceeds for those lyric sheets go to a different organization every month. For the month of November, all of our proceeds will be going to the Southern Poverty Law Center. I’m sure that you know of their work. They are dedicated to fighting hate and bigotry and to seeking justice for the most vulnerable members of our society. Using litigation, education, and other forms of advocacy, SPLC works toward the day when the ideals of equal justice and equal opportunity will be a reality. They have been around for a very long time and their work has always been important, but as you know in the last year it has become increasingly so. So, the $500 that we bring in from those five lyric sheets in November will go directly to SPLC. And we thank you all for supporting the NW Network and Hispanic Federation. Last month we did a special 10 lyric sheets, and we donated $1000, $500 to each of those organizations, so thank you again. And speaking of the holidays, getting somebody a handwritten lyric sheet is also a pretty good gift idea.
Jenny: Hell yeah! Also, just a quick technical note about the episode you’re about to hear. We used two different recording methods, so when you hear us talking about how one recording method has stopped working, but you can still hear us talking, it’s not magic, it’s just the backup recording method.
Kristin: [laughs] Or...
Jenny: Do not be alarmed.
Kristin: Or is it magic?
Jenny: Or it’s magic.
Kristin: Alright, shall we get to the episode?
Jenny: Let’s do that!
Kristin: Woo!
NOTES: [Theme music] [Audience applause and cheering]
Jenny: Hello!
Kristin: Wow! There’s even people over there.
NOTES: [Audience laughs]
Kristin: Hi everybody!
Audience: Hi!
Kristin: This is great. Who was here last time? Who was here the last time we did a NerdMelt– oh, look at you all politely raising your hands!
NOTES: [Audience laughs]
Kristin: Oh my gosh! It’s just I feel like we’re back together again, like we invited you for a dinner party and we all got along.
NOTES: [Audience laughs]
Kristin: You know? And now you’re back.
Jenny: Um, hi.
NOTES: [Audience laughs]
Jenny: There was an issue with the recording device, so could you make the noise that you would make if we were coming onto the stage the first time?
NOTES: [Audience cheers for a long time]
Jenny: Oh, thank you! Wow, I did not see that coming!
NOTES: [Kristin and Audience laugh]
Jenny: What a delight! What a warm, warm welcome.
Kristin: Jenny and I realized preparing for tonight that we still don’t, this is scandalous, we still don’t own any Buffy the Vampire Slayer t-shirts.
NOTES: [Audience reacts; one "what?!" stands out]
Kristin: I know. I know, and so I was...
Jenny: But we do own an alarming number of Buffering the Vampire Slayer ...
Kristin: So many.
Jenny: ...t-shirts.
NOTES: [Audience laughs]
Kristin: So many. And so today, it was last night and I was like we never did it. We never ordered any, what are we going to do? And so I was like, I’ll get my nails painted, you know, like Faith and that’ll be enough. And then I got like taken over by the power of Buffy and went immediately to Target and bought like a white tank top and a leather jacket and a choker. And then Jenny was like, I want to get in on the action. So Jenny’s the beige jacket Faith with the choker.
Jenny: Featured in "Revelations."
Kristin: Yeah, yeah, yeah. And like, doesn’t everybody look better wearing a choker?
NOTES: [Audience laughs]
Kristin: God, I am so glad that we’re allowed to do it ‘cause I put a choker on and I’m like, there she is, ya know?
NOTES: [Audience and Jenny laugh]
Kristin: Anyway, we should do an introduction like we’re actually recording a live podcast, shouldn’t we Jenny?
Jenny: We should!
Kristin: Okay, great.
Jenny: Sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry.
Kristin: This is what it’s like in our basement when we record the podcast. I’m like, shhh, calm down.
Jenny: [yelling] I can’t possibly calm down...
Kristin: Don’t ever.
Jenny: ...because hello and welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast where we are watching and discussing Buffy the Vampire Slayer o  ne episode at a time! My name is Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: And I am Kristin Russo and today we are discussing Season Three, Episode Seven, or as I like to refer to it Season Faith, Episode Gwendolyn.
NOTES: [Audience reacts, laughs, cheers]
Kristin: I’m here all night. The episode is called "Revelations." Also stay tuned at the end of this podcast for an original song written by us that recaps the episode we’re discussing.
Jenny: " Revelations" as we all know, but I’ll tell you anyway, was written by Doug Petrie and directed by James A. Contner, and it originally aired on November 17, 1998, just five days before I turned 17.
Kristin: Um, also, that was like, three... probably like a week before I came out to my parents as bisexual.
Jenny: Oh wowwww.
NOTES: [Audience cheers]
Kristin: Ahhh! It was a big– talk about a revelation!
Jenny: How appropriate!
NOTES: [Audience laughs]
Jenny: There’s a lot of latent bisexuality in this episode. So it feels like maybe, maybe like there was something cosmic... cosmically bisexual happening.
Kristin: Right, right, right, right, right.
Jenny: At that very week.
Kristin: Yeah. You’re right.
Jenny: In 1998.
Kristin: I think you’re right.
Jenny: Alright.
Kristin: Uh, according to IMDB, this is the one where– I haven’t even read this yet, Jenny put it on my sheet– with some help from Faith’s new watcher, Buffy seeks to destroy a weapon-like glove. See they didn’t even say ma-gin-a-gon-ee...
NOTES: [Audience laughs]
Kristin: ...in the thing. Seeks to destroy a weapon-like glove before it falls into the hands of a demon. Pretty good, IMDB.
Jenny: Into the hands of a demon or on to the hand of a demon?
NOTES: [Audience laughs]
Kristin: Ahhhhhhh. Touché, Jenny. Wow. So, we’re doing this, huh?
Jenny: It’s really happening.
Kristin: We’re going to talk about this episode. Um, I have a lot to say.
Jenny: [clears throat]
Kristin: First of all, we start with Dingoes Ate My Baby. Everybody likes Dingoes Ate My Baby, right? Yes.
Jenny: Devon, going for it.
Kristin: Just talking about this TV show with a bunch of people who love this television show is just such a joy. I’m like Dingoes Ate My Baby and everybody’s like yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. [Jenny and audience laugh]
Kristin: Oh yeah, we love them! So, Xander and Willow.
Jenny: [clears throat]
Kristin: Really?
Jenny: Are playing it really cool.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Super cas [casual].
Kristin: They’rrrrrrre not. At all. I feel like they need to calm down just a touch. Just a little bit. Ya know?
Jenny: Take a breath. Take a Xanax. Take something.
Kristin: Ooh, like a Xand, Xand-aaa, a Xander, no
Jenny: Xandax? [laughter]
Kristin: So Xander and Willow are being very awkward and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. Like, fine. I hate the plot, I don’t like the plot line, I don’t like this whole thing. But, who cares? Because then they’re talking about Buffy. And they’re like maybe Buffy is dating somebody. She sure does seem really occupied.
Jenny: Yeah, distracted. Maybe she’s seeing someone. Oh God! Who could it be?
Kristin: Who could it be? And so we get this incredible moment. I was texting with a friend of mine on the drive here about how excited I was about this exact moment. If you listen to the podcast, you know that I’ve already written two erotic novels, is what I call them. [audience laughs and cheers, one "Yes!" stands out] I wrote another one. Um, yes. So, today’s erotic novel. First of all, the other two, one was from "Faith, Hope, & Trick" and it, just in case you need a
refresher, it was: "Patrolling together. Sexual tension. Sleep in the nude. Something in your bod needs uncorking. Think you can take me?" That was my first one. Someone suggested that I make a zine of my erotic novels. So, we’ll see how many more happen?
Jenny: I just, I just feel like they’re poems. I don’t mean to nitpick.
Kristin: [mock fury] They’re erotic novels, Jenny!
Jenny: I feel like you have a fundamental misunderstanding of the difference between a poem and a novel. But also, I love you and support you and you’re right, carry on.
Kristin: [stage whisper] It’s not funny if you call them poems. [laughter]
Kristin: So anyway, then in "Beauty and the Beast," my next erotic novel
was: "Doin’ the ditty. Kickin’ the gear shift. Good down low tickle. How low? You tell me."
Kristin: My erotic novel for this episode requires a page turn so I hope I
don’t mess it up [clears throat]: "I think maybe she has a new honey. I wouldn’t use the word dating. Really. [pause] We’re just good friends."
Kristin: I think it’s the most erotic of the bunch actually. What do you think, Jenny?
Jenny: I think [pause] there’s a lot here. There’s a lot to discuss.
Kristin: Mhm.
Jenny: That’s what I think…
Kristin: Mhm.
Jenny: ...and I’m very pleased by it.
Kristin: Mhm.
Jenny: And I think we’ll see, we’ll be gathering a lot of the defense. The prosecution. The defen– the prosecution will show over the course of this podcast a great deal of evidence and a very clear narrative that points strongly in the direction of a one-sided or possibly two-sided [pause, decrescendo in volume] same-sex Slayer tryst.
Kristin: You got so quiet! [audience laughs]
Kristin: [out one side of her mouth, mumbling] Same-sex Slayer tryst.
Jenny: I have, I’m still, I’m working on my courtroom presence. I apologize. It’s not what it will be.
Kristin: Alright, but don’t worry we’ll get to the Sexual Tension Award. Everyone knows who it’s gonna go to. We’ll get there. We’re not, we’re not there yet. Slayer fight! Slayer fight! Not yet, we have to wait till the end. Ok. Do you have anything that you’d like to say about anything that I have skipped over?
Jenny: What could I– what could you have skipped over?
Kristin: I don’t know.
Jenny: Who cares about anything except what you’re saying?
Kristin: Fine. Then we go to the graveyard. Or the cemetery. The graveyard.
Jenny: Um, it’s a cemetery, I think.
Kristin: It’s a cemetery.
Jenny: So, here Faith and Buffy are each fighting a respective vampire and they’re doing a great job, and it’s all, it feels like a beautiful piece of modern dance and they’re getting sweaty and it’s very aggressive...
Kristin: Someone’s writing an erotic novel. [Everyone laughs]
Jenny: ...and then! They’re obviously winning and they’re doing a great job. [sing-songy] Ba-ba-ba-ba-ba, [says] there’s this like kick-flip thing that happens, whatever, and then!
Kristin: It’s important ‘cause it comes back! Okay, go.
Jenny: Okay, right, it comes back later. That grab your leg as you’re kicking and flip you over thing. [yelling] Um, and then! Are you prepared for me to tell you that then they finish at the same time?! [audience cheers and claps]
Jenny: [yelling] Just as they reached their peak at exactly the same moment for a synchronized slay, you are welcome! It happened! We all saw it! It can’t be undone!
Kristin: Can’t. It cannot be undone. Oh… That, we should just end...
Jenny: Exhibit B!
Kristin: That’s the end of the podcast. Thanks to our guests. [Audience laughs] Ohhhhh. Yes! Okay, so they finish at the same time, and then my note is– I use a word a few times, I can’t think of another word so judge me or call me whatever you will– but my note is, "Who is this bitch?" What? Does anybody have a better word? Like, I don’t want to be misogynistic in my word choice, but, who is this bitch? You know what I mean? "Gwendolyn Post, I’m your new watcher."
Jenny: It’s like...
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: ...every time the most British person on this show has become not quite so British, they introduce another British person who’s like I’m back, ya know?
Kristin: Yeah, I’m back, wearing pearls.
Jenny: I’m just going to keep this really stiff. Pearls!
Kristin: Pearls. Pearls. She has her own tea. She brings her own tea.
Jenny: So rude! So rude!
Kristin: Ugh. I do like when she takes her hair down though, but we’ll get there. [Audience laughs]
Kristin: Maybe... [pause] You’re glaring at me?
Jenny: Ehhhh!
Kristin: Listen, you know what, you won a Sexual Tension Award last season and I’m not gonna get one in this episode, but I’m just saying I’m vying for one. One of our incredible listeners brought us something tonight. Do you have it? You have it there, right? It’s a Sexual Tension Award. Awarded to– It’s beautiful.
Jenny: For outstanding performance in Sexual Tension Awards. Jenny Owen Youngs and Xander’s Outfit in Season 2, Episode 17 "Passion." I would like to thank the Academy.
Kristin: So, now we know that the trophies really do come in the mail.
Jenny: They really do! As we’ve been saying for months.
Kristin: Yeah. Proof! Proof is right here. So anyhow, then we go to the credits. You know the credits. You just saw them. You loved them because we were in them. Wasn’t that fun?
Jenny: That was fun! I don’t remember being in this show, but it feels right.
Kristin: Yeah. Which brings us to, I think, our very first guest. I would like to call up Kristine Thune. Kristine Thune is an illustrator, an animator, a graphic designer, and an all-around ray of sunshine. She lights up our lives,
she is the wind beneath our wings, and she also wrote this bio for herself: give it up for Kristine! [Audience cheers and claps]
Kristine: Thank you.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Kristine: Thank you very much. I am not a writer, but I think I did pretty good.
Kristin: Yeah, I mean it didn’t say you were a writer in the bio.
Kristine: Yeah, no.
Kristin: So, but, I think you could add it.
Kristine: Read it again.
Kristin: Ok, [clears throat], Kristine Thune is–
Kristine: That’s fine. Hi everybody.
Kristin: So, Kristine, first of all, designed the logo.
Kristine: I did.
Kristin: Our Buffering logo. Did you see all their faces? They all went like this!
Kristine: It was me! I did it. I’m signing autographs after the show, so.
Kristin: Yeah, yeah, yeah where you just draw the logo for anyone who wants it, freeband?
Kristine: Yeah, I’ll just free draw and yeah, it’s fine.
Kristin: So, Kristine, tell us about your relationship to Buffy the Vampire Slayer.
Kristine: Oh God, I didn’t know this was going to be a questionnaire, um.
Kristin: You can just, you can also say your own notes if you...
Jenny: Pass, you can say pass.
Kristin: Yeah.
Kristine: Uh, pass.
Kristin: Pass. Okay, pass. No relationship to the series whatsoever.
Kristine: I, no, just, you know, watched it since high school and like rewatch it every year and have a lot of t-shirts and comic books and things like that.
Jenny: Uh huh.
Kristin: Yeah. Sounds like a lot of other people in this room, I think.
Kristine: Yeah.
Kristin: Do you have– do you have particular feelings about this episode? Do you have things you feel like you need to get off your chest?
Kristine: Sure, yeah, um, I do not like Gwendolyn Post. [Audience laughs]
Kristin: Mhm.
Kristine: At all.
Kristin: I agree.
Kristine: She is awful. She made two characters that I love feel bad about
themselves: Giles and Faith.
Kristin: Boooo.
Jenny: Mhm.
Kristine: So she’s bad. She’s bad news.
Kristin: She does, she like, the way she rolls into the library.
Kristine: Yeah.
Kristin: Right, "where are your books?"
Kristine: Uh, they’re all around you. Can you not see?
Kristin: Yeah, but then I hate, I don’t like the way that, I mean I feel bad for Giles, but I was also like Giles, come on, man! Like, have some confidence! You’ve got this. You know.
Kristine: You know what books are, you have books, you’re good!
Kristin: You love books. But yeah, she really, she makes him doubt himself so hard.
Jenny: Which is like, is this like a Watcher’s Council version of like a pissing contest? Where everyone’s constantly comparing [suggestively] library sizes? Like is that the vibe?
Kristin: Uh, I feel like I should [clears throat] I feel like you’ve brought up a very good point Jenny.
Jenny: Thank you.
Kristin: So, I’m just gunna...
Jenny: What does this have to do with? [Plays The Patriarchy j ingle] "The Paaaaaatriarchy"
Jenny: Ohhhh, ah yes. Yes. Yes.
Kristine: Okay. Alright.
Kristin: That’s better. That’s a better– Actually, I’m just gunna... [Plays The Patriarchy j ingle again] "The Paaaaaatriarchy" [Audience laughs]
Kristin: Yeah.
Kristine: That set the mood. I think that was good.
Kristin: Yeah, I’ve been waiting. It’s the first time I’ve done a live– [first few note of The Patriarchy j ingle play again]
Jenny: Oh, oh my god!
Kristine: This is the rest of the podcast.
Jenny: And then she went mad with power.
Kristin: It’s the first time I get to play jingles from my phone, so expect many. Anyhow, I’m sorry, I didn’t mean to interrupt your patriarchal reasoning with my patriarchy jingle.
Kristine: No, I was done. That was my whole thing.
Kristin: Yeah, so you hate Gwendolyn Post.
Kristine: Yeah.
Kristin: Check.
Kristine: I also– any time Willow and Xander kiss... [Jenny and Kristin both react with boos/ughs]
Kristine: I hated it. So! Much! Flames on the side of my face. Heaving breaths. Breathing. It’s bad. It’s really bad. Like, that needs to be over. Like, I’m done.
Kristin: Yeah.
Kristine: I want to change the series and just skip over that.
Kristin: You felt that way when you watched it in high school–
Kristine: In high school, yeah!
Kristin:– like when you were a tiny person.
Kristine: That was even when I liked Xander.
Kristin: Mhm.
Kristine: I still didn’t like that, what was happening.
Kristin: No, it’s very upsetting. I mean I think that Willow, or Alyson Hannigan, or I don’t know. I think that Alyson Hannigan does a really great job in the performance of it because I feel like, "I hate it, I hate it, I hate it," but I also feel so much sympathy for her, like what she’s going through. I feel none for Xander, sorry.
Kristine: Yeah, none. Nothing. [Audience laughs]
Kristin: If you’re here, you know where are. I love your notebook. It’s so cute. This little graph notebook. Are you an illustrator?
Kristine: I am an illustrator. How did you know?
Jenny & Kristin: From your bio.
Kristine: Oh, yeah, the one I wrote! Yeah, okay, okay, right, right. But yeah, other than that, this episode is not one of my favorites. And I was actually really upset because we are literally two episodes away from the introduction of my favorite character in the series.
Kristin: Oh, Jenny’s too!
Kristine: She’s boned a troll, she’s wreaked some wrath, but on the whole she’s had no past. She likes to bowl, she’s good with math, but who is she? We don’t know because we didn’t watch the episode yet.
Kristin: Wow wow wow wow wow. I don’t know what– the other guests are sneaking out the door. [Audience laughs]
Jenny: [Clears throat]
Kristin: It’s over for everybody. Jenny’s under the table.
Kristine: Anyway.
Kristin: Tell me what you think about this. So we did a live watch today like where we watched the episode and– you’re nodding, you were there– we watched the episode and people joined us on Facebook live, and it was really fun. And I had already made a note that I think Gwendolyn Post reminds me of Hermione Granger gone sour, you know? [audience gasps, making noises of dissent]
Kristin: No, gone sour! Like a doppelganger, no? I’m kicked out?
Jenny: Wrong room, wrong room!
Kristine: Yeah, I don’t think so, sorry.
Kristin: I love Hermione! And I hate Gwendolyn Post but if it–
Kristine: Okay, no no I get the like wingardium leviosaaaa not leviooooosaaa.
Kristin: Right! Yes!
Kristine: Yeah, yeah alright.
Kristin: Thank god you’re here Kristine! That got scary out there for a minute.
Kristine: Yeah, okay, okay okay fine.
Kristin: But then somebody else said that– somebody in the feed was like, I think that she reminds me of– from Matilda… you know the queer icon from Matilda. [audience answering unintelligibly]
Jenny: Ms. Trunchbull?
Kristin: Ms. Honey, no! Ms. Honey gone– [audience making noises of dissent]
Kristin: You guys! It’s not, why do you take–
Jenny: When you say a person gone evil it means... evil, not the person you’re thinking of the way you like them.
Kristin: But the research has shown we will not compare any beloved characters...
Jenny: It can’t be done.
Kristine: Stop ruining them.
Kristin: I’m sorry, I’ll cross off the note!
Kristine: But yeah, I mean that’s it for me really. But I wanna say that if you are gonna publish a erotica novella zine, I will gladly do the illustrations for it. We’re gonna make it super sexy. [audience cheering and applauding]
Kristin: Yes! That is amazing.
Jenny: Yeah, a gear shift.
Kristin: A gear shift, yes!
Jenny: A down low tickle, whatever your interpretation of that is.
Kristine: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Could be anything.
Kristin: I’m so glad that we could also do business during this podcast.
Kristine: Yeah, oh yeah. We just made a deal, so...
Kristin: It’s wonderful, yep, thank you so much. Do you wanna– like where did your– before you go I just wanna talk about that you designed the logo.
Kristine: I did!
Kristin: And you did a really great job, do you wanna talk about it at all? How did it happen?
Kristine: Thank you, sure, yeah okay well, I think it was a long time ago and Jenny was like "I’m gonna do a podcast."
Kristin: It was so long ago.
Kristine: Yeah, oh my god, it was so long ago! And Jenny was like, "I’m gonna do a podcast." You sent me a little text, and then you were like, "Would you do the logo?" And I was like "Yeah, I’ll do the logo!" You sent me a drawing, and that helps a lot. I don’t know if there’s any artists or people who hire artists. If you can not only write what you want but give like a little stick figure drawing just to understand, it’s very beneficial. And then I just did it.
Kristin: It’s just– it’s beautiful. It’s a beautiful work of art.
Kristine: Yeah, so I mean it was inspired by what you drew, so…
Jenny: So it was a collaboration.
Kristine: It was a collaboration, yeah!
Kristin: Wow, do you have your drawing? Your original drawing?
Jenny: I might have it in my text log or something.
Kristine: You should post it.
Kristin: I think you should see if you can find that. I think people would like to see it. Would you like to see it?
Kristine: Yeah! [audience cheering]
Jenny: Did you mean right now?
Kristin: No! [audience laughs]
Jenny: ‘Cause we’re actually on stage.
Kristin: I’m like click, there’s a slide prepared. No, I just think you should find it and we should show it to the people, they would like that.
Jenny: Okay, I’ll dig it up.
Kristin: Anyway, Kristine, you’re a wonderful human.
Kristine: No, you are! You guys are!
Kristin: Thank you for hating on Gwendolyn Post…
Kristine: She sucks!
Kristin: But also thank you for saving me from the travesty that almost befell me. You’ve been–
Kristine: Yeah, If she didn’t have– If Hermione Granger did not have friends, yeah, okay, maybe. Maybe. Maybe.
Kristin: [laughs] Fine, okay right. But still no don’t– probably not.
Kristine: Don’t bring it up, don’t bring it up, don’t bring it up. [audience laughs]
Jenny: Too soon!
Kristin: Kristine, thank you!
Kristine: Thank you.
Kristin: Give it up for Kristine Thune everybody! [audience cheering and clapping]
Jenny: Hell! Yeah!
Kristine: How do I be free, how do I get out of here? Let me off the stage!
Kristin: [laughs] Cool, cool, cool.
Jenny: So let’s like plow through some exposition here, shall we?
Kristin: We shall, let’s go!
Jenny: Yes, okay so great. So Gwendolyn Post is terrible, she’s being so mean to Giles and so mean to Faith, and she’s undermining everyone and making everyone feel really bad about themselves and just being generally unpleasant and… [groans] But we also learn that Lagos seeks the Glove of Myhnegon which Kristin calls the glove of monogonon, or non-monogamy.
Kristin: The glove of non-monogamy!
Jenny: We also learn there are twelve cemeteries in Sunnydale; you’re welcome.
Kristin: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Jenny: And then Gwendolyn sweeps out of the library and is "Faith, with me please," separating Buffy and Faith. They do not look pleased, not one little bit.
Kristin: No, they’re never happy to be separated, although Buffy does have somewhere to go.
Jenny: She’s got someplace very important to be.
Kristin: There’s Angel, he still has not found a shirt, everyone. [audience laughs and whoops]
Kristin: We need the [singing] "doot-doot-doot, doot-doot-do-do-doot-doot-doot." You know the little news ticker?
Jenny: Angel shirt-watch. Still no shirt.
Kristin: Still no shirt. But they have begun doing tai chi [suggestively] together. My note is "tai chi together, sexy tai chi together," and then I wrote "this is like that scene from Ghost." [audience groans]
Jenny: And I wrote "this is like that scene from Dirty Dancing." So any Patrick Swayze movie will really do from peak Swayze period.
Kristin: What we deduced today was that we think that Angel is a big Patrick Swayze fan.
Jenny: Yes, that’s where he’s been getting–
Kristin: He’s been watching a lot of those Patrick Swayze films.
Jenny: There’s also a full fire blazing in the fireplace behind them. And I will remind you that vampires can be killed a few ways. And one of them is fire! So, who made that fire? Who built that fire and felt safe having it in their house?
Kristin: Angel, so carefully with no shirt just dodging embers you know, just very, very carefully.
Jenny: There’s also so much natural light in vamp mansion that we see in this episode!
Kristin: Right? There’s an entire ceiling made of glass in his house. So I just feel like he could have chosen better. That’s all I’m saying. Also somebody, Ruby P. sent us an email that I put in her to read because Ruby P. said, "Can you please talk about Angel does tai chi even though he is dead and has no breath?" [audience laughs]
Kristin: [laughing] Ohh! Thank you, Ruby P., wherever you are ‘cause I think it’s a great point, right? Okay. Look, I’m already on page three of five! It’s all happening so fast!
Jenny: God, then they almost kiss, oh god, but then they don’t!
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And then Buffy peaces out and then we go to the mmmm blech mother fucking library.
Kristin: Yes, I was like she’s gonna say it, she’s not– she is gonna say it, yes. Yeah, this is again–
Jenny: There’s a terrible– the worst temple massage in film and television history!
Kristin: It’s just very– this whole thing, Kristine I agree with you, it’s very upsetting. I don’t like it. Also no one– still no one has bolted down the damn bookcases, guys!
Jenny: How many times have those bookcases been used to knock–
Kristin: They fall– ugh. But more upsetting is Xander and Willow, you know, kissing.
Jenny: Doing what they do.
Kristin: And Jenny and I have a fundamental disagreement about this next part. I know– everybody in the front row was like whaaaat? [audience laughs]
Jenny: Giles. totally. knows. what’s going. on.
Kristin: I don’t think Giles knows.
Jenny: Giles totally knows what’s going on. [audience reacts, indistinctly]
Kristin: Everybody prefers Jenny?
Jenny: He’s cold as ice, deliberately not looking at them, speaking sharply. He knows.
Kristin: If this was a Twitter poll, it would be 90% Jenny.
Jenny: Hell yeah!
Kristin: I measured it with my brain. I measured with my brain. [Hell Math jingle plays]
Kristin: [laughs and sighs]
Jenny: Point nine zero.
Kristin: I’ve always wanted to be that person in the radio booth that just gets to hit buttons to make noises. It’s been my dream for so long and it’s being realized.
Jenny: Now that’s who you are. And Giles lets Willow and Xander know that he has discovered where the glove probably is. And Xander’s like, "Oh! That crypt in the Restfield Cemetery? You mean that big one– I just know exactly which crypt you’re talking about in the twelve cemeteries in Sunnydale." All of which have to be pretty big to accommodate the massive turnover of living citizens of Sunnydale California. [audience laughs]
Kristin: I also don’t really understand why Giles lets Xander go by himself. I mean– you know? You work for a slayer, you know, for a slayer, that’s the way I would like to interpret it. Buffy is the boss...
Jenny: Okay but enough about Xander.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: [valley girl voice] Because Buffy and Faith are out, walking around, talking about stuff. [speaking normally] Faith is listing all of her ex-boyfriends and– just as a quick aside, I want you to know that someone sent us a novel entitled Go Ask Malice, which is a Faith prequel tale.
Kristin: And she can’t stop reading it, every night and morning she’s like, "I’m sorry. I just have two more pages of Faith’s diary. "
Jenny: Yeah,yeah, yeah, there’s– oh my god, yes. It’s written like a diary. [laughs] And there’s some detail about some of the boyfriends that Faith lists here just in case you were looking for more data.
Kristin: Oh, really?
Jenny: Oh, now you’re interested?
Kristin: Well you didn’t tell me anything.
Jenny: You didn’t ask, you just made fun. [audience laughs]
Kristin: I’m sorry! Okay. So anyway.
Jenny: So then Faith’s trying to get Buffy to open up and talk about her feelings and tell her whether she’s dating somebody or if she’s emotionally available, or what’s going on.
Kristin: Which like, I’m sorry, but if you are here and queer, you know that one of the ways into a situation is to be like so...
Jenny: So, had any straight hetereosexual sexual encounters lately?
Kristin: Yeah! [audience laughs]
Jenny: Tell me about them.
Kristin: So tell me about them. We should go sit down in your room while you tell me about things you’ve done in your past sex life. I have got Faith’s number. You know? [Jenny laughs] Also when we watched it today, we realized that– we were like, "Why is Buffy wearing"– she’s wearing a red puffy coat that’s like forty times too big, and then we realized I think that she’s trying to disguise that underneath it she’s wearing her sexy tai chi outfit, you know?
Jenny: Concealing a spaghetti strap tank top.
Kristin: Very carefully with many, many layers of other clothing. Also one
more thing before we leave this scene: Faith is like, "Hey you know, I’m gonna do this on my own. You do you. Gal pals for life, bye. But if you need me– if I need you, I’ll holler." And Jenny and I immediately–
Jenny: Holler with what? From where? In what way?
Kristin: With what! It’s 1998. Literally. She meant literally holler. [audience laughing]
Jenny: She is [imitating yelling from far away] Buffy!!
Kristin: So Faith goes to one of the other graveyards with the crypt.
Jenny: She encounters Lagos, who’s very mission-oriented, probably a Capricorn. Just like Buffy.
Kristin: That guy’s Billy from Hocus Pocus. He’s Billy, right? [audience member groans] I know. Oh god, here we go again right? [audience laughs] Lagos is bad, Billy is great. When you cut Lagos’s head off he dies, Billy would just pop his head back on. There’s differences, everybody be calm. They just look like each other, okay.
Jenny: Suspend your disbelief!
Kristin: Right, so okay and then the biggest thing here is that Xander, hot on the heels also in search of Lagos stumbles upon Angel. And then tiptoes into the mansion... [Jenny sighs] Which I know Angel’s distracted making out or whatever, but I just feel like–
Jenny: But where are his heightened vampire senses?
Kristin: Right? Maybe he’s still not 100% from his like one billion years in the hell dimension. I don’t know. Anyway Xander sees this and this is a big deal and this makes Xander– Xander already was a pissbaby. [audience laughs]
Jenny: This does not bring out the best in Xander.
Kristin: Xander turns a very hard pissbaby corner after seeing this, it’s really...
Jenny: It’s not great.
Kristin: No.
Jenny: But it’s also complicated, well, we’ll get there.
Kristin: We’ll get there, we’ll get there, because– before we totally get there, we see Angel and Buffy with the glove. And the reason I wanna bring up this little interlude is because Angel says to Buffy, [suggestively] "I think I have what you’re looking for." And when we watched it in our home, I screamed, "My penis!" [audience laughs and claps] That’s what he means! And then when we watched it today, somebody in the live feed said, "No glove, no love." [audience laughs and claps]
Kristin: So good! So good. Samantha said that, so I’m giving Samantha credit for "no glove, no love."
Jenny: And Xander sees them kissing, like why couldn’t Xander have walked in on them doing tai chi?
Kristin: I think he would have been equally scandalized. You know?
Jenny: I guess the shirtlessness...
Kristin: He would have been like, "Is this what vampire sex looks like?" Get it, you guys? Because that’s what everybody says about gay people? Okay. So Xander runs to tell Giles which is a very inopportune moment, because of course, Gwendolyn Post is like "Oh you have everything under control, do you? Pip pip, I brought my own tea and I suck." [audience laughs] Anyhow, Jenny, are you okay? Are you gonna make it?
Jenny: I just didn’t see you saying "pip pip." I didn’t see that coming.
Kristin: Everyone listening in the UK is like, "Really, Kristin?" Sorry, Gwendolyn Post brings out just horrible things in me. So then the next scene is this intervention, and it’s like real uncomfortable, but I think it’s punctuated by Xander’s pissbaby-ness.
Jenny: Would you say that it might be called an Angel-vention?
Kristin: Ohhhhh, yeah, I think I agree with you. [audience weakly laughs, groans]
Jenny: Medium, luke warm?
Kristin: Ehhhhhhh…
Jenny: They can’t all be gems!
Kristin: But a good tr- a noble try. Xander pulls out his chair and gives it to Buffy.
Jenny: Ugh!
Kristin: To then loom.
Jenny: There are three other empty chairs at the table, but he just hovers.
Kristin: Ugh. And, okay, so I wanna call up our second guest in this part here. Our second guest is named Ira Madison III, and Ira is a culture writer at the Daily Beast and GQ Magazine and contributor to Crooked Media, and Ira, you have sort of a tagline of sorts which is "keep it," right? So, in the spirit of telling Xander to keep it, I thought it would be a good time to bring you up to the stage to talk to us about Buffy the Vampire Slayer, come on up! [audience cheers and claps]
Jenny: Um, can I just get a better look at your X-Men shirt?
Ira: Oh, yeah. It is the Dark Phoenix.
Kristin: Ooooooooohhhh.
Jenny: Fuck yeah it’s little [singing] Dark Phoeniiiiiiiiiiix.
Kristin: Really nice. I also like the pairing of it with the other shirt.
Ira: It’s Gwendolyn Post. It’s how she thought she was gonna be.
Jenny: Oh my god!
Kristin: Wow. Talk about first impressions.
Ira: Yeah!
Kristin: How are you?
Ira: I’m good!
Kristin: We’ve all known each other for five minutes. We all just met.
Ira: Yeah, it’s great.
Kristin: But I knew that you were a giant Buffy fan and Jenny heard you speak– speak? Heard you cast?
Jenny: I watched you with my eyes and heard you with my ears at a live taping of "Sicker Sadder World."
Ira: Oh! Okay.
Jenny: Which is spectacular.
Kristin: Which is a Daria podcast that rules.
Jenny: Hell yeah. [Audience going ‘ohhhhhhhh’]
Kristin: Uh-huh! Yeah.
Jenny: Oh my.
Kristin: It’s exciting. Our friends Brittany Ashley and Laura Zak do it, and Brittany’s here somewhere. Where are you, Brittany? [Brittany whoops from the audience]
Kristin: Yeaaaaah.
Ira: Brittany!
Kristin: And so we sent you a note and we were like, "We’re doing this thing, do you wanna talk about Buffy?"
Ira: I always wanna talk about Buffy.
Jenny: Hell. Yes.
Kristin: So will you tell us about your relationship to Buffy?
Ira: Pass. No, I’m kidding.
Kristin: I’m like it’s not working, the question’s not working.
Ira: No, I watched Buffy in high school. Yeah, because it started in ‘97 when I was in middle school, and then I didn’t watch the first season, I saw re-runs during the summer. WB was doing like, "Catch up on Buffy before season two."
Kristin: Smart.
Ira: So I watched, like, episodes, and then I started with season two.
Kristin: That’s actually how I watched it too. I mean I was not in high school or middle school but when I watched it as an adult, [audience and Ira laugh] I skipped season one because I couldn’t get through season one. [Ira laughing] It was really rough, it’s rough, it’s a rough season for a person who doesn’t yet love the series.
Ira: Yeah, so I would VHS each episode.
Jenny: Yesssss!
Ira: And that’s why I feel like it’s one of the shows that I’ve seen the most, because it’s like if you VHS an episode and then you watch it when you get home from school, ‘cause I did after school stuff… theatre. Gay things.
Kristin: Ooohh, high five for theater, yep.
Ira: Then it’s just like oh I really like that episode, so what do you do during the rest of the week? Like, you rewatch it.
Kristin: Yes!
Ira: I feel like I did that each week except for some episodes.
Kristin: Were you really careful with your VHS? Like did you make sure no one else went near them?
Ira: Yes! I’ve had like a– if you go to my childhood home my closet has two shelves in it and I used to meticulously record TV shows that I loved. So there’s like Alias episodes, and there’s cancelled WB shows that aired for like four episodes that are on one VHS tape and they’re labeled and it’s like if you would like to watch Grosse Pointe, I have them.
Kristin: Wow. Woooow. There are people who would like to do those things.
Ira: Yeah!
Kristin: This could be an award winning podcast. Podcast about shows that no one else can watch. They just have to borrow your VHS tapes. [Audience laughs] Well, so what are your thoughts on this episode?
Ira: I don’t love this episode.
Kristin: Yeah, I really like this episode, so I wanna hear why.
Ira: I think everybody in this episode is trash. [audience laughs and claps]
Kristin: Even… even Faith?
Ira: Yeah!
Jenny: Wow!
Ira: The only character who is worth a damn in this episode is my favorite Whedonverse character. It is Cordelia.
Kristin: Wow, wow. This is exciting.
Ira: Because when they are having the intervention and Xander’s like, "It’s okay. I trust you Buffy," Cordelia says, "For the record, I don’t." [audience cheers and claps]
Kristin: Well, Ira, I’m gonna play– I don’t know if you know about our Cordelia jingle but I’m gonna play it right now for– you just cued it up real well for us, here we go.
[Cordelia jingle plays: Cordelia Ahh-ahh I love you Cordelia ahh-ahh You’re perfect Cordelia ahh-ahh]
Kristin: Yeah, beautiful.
Jenny: Cordelia!
Kristin: Ahh. [audience applauds]
Ira: It’s great.
Kristin: We made that for you.
Ira: Thank you.
Kristin: Yeah, we agree we’re–
Ira: Cordelia’s always right…
Kristin: Yes.
Ira: Usually. And I’m just like… Buffy is– first of all, not spoiling but Buffy’s behavior with, "I’m just gonna like hang around with Angel and make out with him and not tell anybody" is– you know what? It makes sense, the shit that she does later.
Kristin: Ohhhhhh.
Ira: I’m just saying. She keeps things from her friends, and she always thinks that she knows what’s right.
Kristin: Right.
Ira: Xander… [everyone laughs] is awful. [more laughter]
Jenny: You’ve come to the right place.
Kristin: You’re on the right podcast.
Ira: He’s obsessed with Buffy. He’s giving you the Trump glower over her. [audience cheers and claps]
Kristin: Yes, yes, yes! Exactly.
Ira: And then, when he goes to Faith, he’s like, "Oh she’s been making out with Angel." Like, "I wanna go watch you kill him." It’s like fuck off. I hate him.
Kristin: Yeah, he sucks.
Ira: He is a horrible person.
Kristin: He is. Did you know he was a horrible person when you watched it in high school? Were you aware? ‘Cause I feel like most people that we talk to are like, "I loved Xander when I was a young person watching the show and then I watched it again and was like, ‘What the fuck?’"
Ira: Not to ruin anything, I did not realize that Xander was horrible. I hated him in the season two finale.
Kristin: Yeah, well yeah.
Ira: But I didn’t quite realize he was horrible till season four when I was like, "Get a job." [audience laughs] Do something!
Kristin: You’re really good at talking around spoilers, you know? Like I’m not gonna say anything but if you know, you know.
Ira: He’s awful and Willow, I’m just like– I get it. I get it, he put ice cream on your nose but… move on.
Kristin: Noooooo. It’s like somehow your goal was to be like a–
Ira: Oz is into you! And he’s in a band and his hair changes every week. It’s always something new and exciting. I don’t know, I feel like Oz is awful too because he like–
Kristin: [gasps with audience] Wow! Agree over there.
Ira: ‘Cause he’s always sitting in these meetings and he sees Xander being trash and he never says anything about it.
Kristin: Ohhhhhhh okay.
Jenny: Ohhhhhhhh.
Ira: And it’s probably just guys being guys and you know what? Like okay, that’s how we get Harvey Weinstein.
Kristin: Wooooooooow. You know you’re right. I feel like that in my brain I was like, "Oz is cool ‘cause he’s not doing what Xander’s doing," and I didn’t go the next step which is important, which is but why is he not stepping in?
Ira: Also lowkey when he first met Willow and was doing the whole "No, I want you to be sexy for me," like when she tried to seduce– I didn’t like it, I’m sorry.
Kristin: Alright, alright, alright.
Ira: I didn’t like it.
Kristin: Wait, did you say who your favorite character– oh, you did, Cordelia.
Ira: Cordelia, it’s always Cordelia.
Jenny: Obviously. Of course, solid choice.
Ira: Angel, I guess Angel has whatever going on ‘cause he’s just back from Hell. So I can’t really hate him in this episode although it’s like– I don’t know, I think when Gwendolyn and everyone comes in I think all he really had to say was– he could have cleared it up. Let’s just put it that way. [Kristin laughs] Who else is off? Giles.
Kristin: Giles because he doesn’t have the confidence to stand up to Gwendolyn Post?
Ira: Yes, also, you know what? Like get your library up to snuff. [audience booing] I’m sorry; do your job. Because you know what? Gwendolyn is evil, yes, you know but throughout the history of the show the library is just poorly run. And students can just walk in there…
Kristin: Just weapons, open cabinets, yeah.
Ira: Yeah, I’m just– Giles, get it together. And also for someone who’s just constantly in other people’s business, like so many of them are, but Giles is too. The British tea, I feel like they spill tea with each other. It just means he’s doing such a bad job I feel like, as a Watcher, that literally no one called him and was like, "Yo, did you hear about Gwendolyn?" [audience laughs]
Kristin: He is! He is so left out!
Ira: No one called him. He has no friends.
Kristin: That’s really keeping with the theme, like he never is invited to the retreats–
Ira: Anything!
Kristin: He never gets to go to anything.
Ira: It’s like who– like he should be really upset at the end of that. No one alerted him. Not an email, not a holler. [audience laughs]
Kristin: Alright so...
Ira: And then there’s Faith. Who is probably the worst ‘cause these people invite you into their home–
Kristin: Do they? She’s staying in a motel.
Ira: I– true.
Jenny: Like does Joyce really not have a guest room somewhere?
Kristin: Right?
Ira: Yeah, you know what–
Kristin: Nobody invites her to do anything.
Ira: Well, I mean what’s Joyce doing at this point? Is she like–
Jenny: She’s at the gallery, she’s busy.
Ira: She’s at the gallery, she’s, she’s... somewhere.
Kristin: She made Faith dinner that one time.
Jenny: [laughs with Ira] Yeah.
Ira: I don’t know. I just feel like it’s a poor choice for her to bond with Xander in this episode.
Kristin: Yeah, okay, but you know– but here let me explain to you why–
Jenny: But don’t you think...
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: They might be experiencing a smidgen of the same type of jealousy?
Kristin: Precisely.
Ira: True.
Jenny: It’s fueling their Angel hatred.
Ira: She’s stressed about Buffy too. She wants to like you know...
Kristin: Yeah, she wants to get in there and she’s like–
Ira: Work up a sweat.
Kristin: "I didn’t know I had compe–" Yes! She didn’t know she had competition so she’s like, "I get to slay and take out the competition."
Ira: I will maybe forgive...
Jenny: [whispering] Yesssss.
Ira: I’ll forgive Faith, but I still feel like the person who’s doing the best… is Cordelia–
Kristin: Always. [audience whoops] No one will argue with that.
Ira: ‘Cause she doesn’t trust Buffy and two: Lagos, you know he’s just doing his job very well. [Kristin laughs]
Jenny: Industrious.
Ira: Detail oriented.
Kristin: Very focused.
Ira: Working after hours on the clock. And to be honest Gwendolyn Post too, you know?
Kristin: Yeah, she does a pretty–
Ira: She came there with a mission and she accomplished it and she wouldn't have been able to accomplish it if... they weren’t a mess.
Kristin: That’s true.
Ira: If these friends were better friends to each other, Gwendolyn would have come in and she’d have been like, "Oh, Faith," and like, "Oh, maybe you shouldn’t trust Buffy," and Giles would be like, "Actually Buffy emailed me already."
Kristin: Right, yeah.
Ira: What are you talking about?
Kristin: She already beeped me, so…
Ira: Yeah! So I think that Cordelia, Lagos, and Gwendolyn are just putting in work.
Kristin: Alright, well okay. I mean I appreciate your assessment of the– yeah, you hate everyone.
Ira: Listen, I just–
Jenny: Except Cordelia.
Kristin: Except Cordelia, yeah.
Ira: I love people who do their jobs.
Kristin: Yeah, yes. Wow, Ira it has been… [Ira and the audience laugh] such a dream.
Ira: Thank you.
Kristin: I’m really just– will you come back and talk to us more?
Ira: Yeah! Of course!
Kristin: Do you have a favorite episode, without spoiling it, of season three? Not to put you on the spot.
Ira: Season three.
Kristin: Yeah, [mimicking the Jeopardy song] do-do-do-doo do-do-doo. Wow, guys. [audience joins in] do-do-do do-do-do-do-do-do.
Ira: You know I feel like I would have a lot to say about… the prom.
Kristin: Ahhhhhhhh yes. We should talk in early March.
Ira: Yes! So many thoughts about people who... don’t deserve awards. I’m just gonna put it out there. [audience outrage]
Kristin: Woooooooow. If you wanna follow Ira, also a really important thing to note is that you grabbed the twitter handle @ira. That’s remarkable.
Ira: To be fair…
Kristin: Did you take it away from someone?
Ira: Demon organization, Buzzfeed, did that for me.
Kristin: Ohhhhh.
Ira: When I used to work there.
Kristin: Well, you know sometimes people do–
Ira: They did one good thing.
Kristin: Yeah, sometimes people– Ira, thank you so much! [audience claps]
Ira: Thank you. Thank you so much. [ad break music starts]
Kristin: Today’s episode is brought to you by Care Of. Vitamins and supplements are one of the best, most basic ways to ensure that you’re meeting your body’s nutrition needs. And we all need to stay strong to fight off those big bads out there, right guys? It can be really hard to figure out which vitamins to take though, but luckily Care Of is a new vitamin company that is here to help. You go to their website and Care Of then asks you questions about your diet and your health goals, and then they recommend the best supplements for you. It’s a super easy process that only takes a few minutes so you’ll still have plenty of time left to hunt down that glove of Myginigonee [Jenny laughs] Myginegon, Myhnegon, Monogamy. Jenny and I have Care Of vitamins here at our house and we love them. They each come– like every day you have your little quartet or triad or however many vitamins you choose from Care Of, in a little pack and every pack has your name on it. It’s like "Hi Kristin" and then it gives you a fact of the day and they all come in a little box. Care Of is helping us out with vitamins, but I also feel like the way that they do their website and the way they do their packaging makes me feel like I have my life together more than I do, so I appreciate them. Anyhow, on top of getting cool vitamins, because you are a fan of Buffy the Vampire Slayer and because you’re out there fighting big bads, you now get to take 50% off your first month. You just go to takecareof.com get your personalized recommendation and use our code "buffering" to get 50% off your first month.
Jenny: Today’s episode is also brought to you by Casper. Casper is a sleep brand that continues to revolutionize its line of products to create an exceptionally comfortable sleep experience, one night at a time. With three mattress models, the original Casper, the Wave, and the Essential. Casper mattresses are perfectly designed to soothe and cradle your natural geometry. Not to mention the breathable design helps you sleep cool and regulates your body temperature throughout the night. Which is great for human mortals who tend to run warmer than room temperature. And it’s delivered to your door in a box so small it defies the laws of matter and density. With free shipping and returns in the U.S. and Canada. But the best part is you can be sure of your purchase with Casper’s 100 night risk free "sleep on it" trial. Unless you’re a vampire, you spend one third of your life sleeping, so you should be comfortable. Start sleeping ahead of the curve with Casper. Get $50 towards any mattress purchase by visiting casper.com/buffy and using "buffy" at check out. That’s casper.com/buffy, offer code "buffy" for $50 off your mattress purchase. Terms and conditions apply.
Kristin: Today’s episode was also brought to you by Barkbox. If you have a pup or two of your own you probably already know about Barkbox. A monthly delivery of the best paw picked, all natural. and adorable toys made to match your dog’s needs including allergies and heavy duty toys for those heavy duty chewers. Each box is centered around a different theme. They keep your pup engaged, interested, and happy and we were sent our very own Barkbox. We don’t have pups of our own but my sister has two adorable pups, Charlie and Canyon, and they went out of their minds for the contents of the Barkbox. They got a squeaky statue of liberty, they got treats, they got a little thing of dumplings that had two squeaker dumplings in it. They were really, really excited and we know that even if we don’t have dogs of our own that a Barkbox would make an incredible gift for friends or family members who do have pups. And tis the season. Every Barkbox ships free within the continental United States and if for some reason your dog or your friend’s dog doesn’t like something in the box. Barkbox will send you something that they will love for free! Because they love dogs and they love dogs being happy, as do we all, right Jenny?
Jenny: Indeed.
Kristin: You can visit barkbox.com/buffy for a free extra month of Barkbox when you subscribe to a 6 or 12 month plan. That’s barkbox.com/buffy for a free extra month, when you subscribe to a 6 or 12 month Barkbox. [Ad break music ends]
Kristin: One more time for Ira Madison the third.
Jenny: Third in his name. [Audience cheers and claps]
Kristin: My favorite part was that I convinced you to not hate Faith 100%. [Ira, Jenny and the audience laugh]
Ira: She’s no Kendra.
Kristin: [along with the audience] Ohhhhhhhhhh. RIP Kendra.
Jenny: Very dedicated, serious worker, applying herself.
Kristin: Yeah, you really do like people who work.
Jenny: You’ve got a type.
Kristin: She worked, she did her–
Ira: Nine to Fivers.
Kristin: [laughs] Alright.
Jenny: So everybody’s really upset about the kissing.
Kristin: Yes, everybody’s very upset about the kissing. Willow’s trying to hold it down in the intervention. Nobody’s listening to Willow. I don’t understand why nobody throws Xander out of this. I just like–
Jenny: Especially when he drops the Ms. Calendar bomb. Like if I was Giles I would be like [makes a pained noise] Violence!
Kristin: Right, somebody wrote us an email and said "my friends and I always used to say her name was Jenny Calendar because her days were numbered." [audience is upset, chorus of "Ohhhhhhh"]
Kristin: It’s like– I don’t even have to think of my own stuff anymore everyone just sends me these great things via email. Anyway, right Xander– yes. So and then the– sorry I don’t wanna–
Jenny: No, no go for it.
Kristin: But the moment in the intervention that really puts us over the, I don’t know, emotional place I think, is when everybody leaves and she goes to talk to Giles. And he’s like "be quiet" right? I know, I wanted us to all just sit with it for a second.
Jenny: Dad is disappointed.
Kristin: Dad is disappointed. It’s like the exact case of when you just want your parent or whomever to be mad at you and they’re not, they’re just like "you really let me down." Ughh! So gutting.
Jenny: It is rough.
Kristin: Right? Anyhow what’s not rough, is over at Faith’s house is Jenny’s favorite– well favorite arc in the whole episode. [Audience laughs] Jenny’s head’s on the table. Go ahead Jenny.
Jenny: Well first Gwendolyn’s like "Do you know who the Spartans were?" and Faith’s like [in a boston accent] "A bunch of guys from Spart?"
Kristin: Jenny’s Boston accent!
Jenny: And then much later the arc concludes when Buffy comes by Faith’s at the end of the episode and she’s like, "Love what you’ve done with the place," and Faith is like [in a Boston accent] "Yeah, it’s real Spartan" [audience and Kristin laughs] It’s so perfect. It’s so– Okay ah-hm. Sorry other stuff is happening, great.
Kristin: It’s good though. It’s good, it’s nice, it tells us something about Faith, like where’d she pick up five by five? She picks up things and then kind of spits ‘em right back out. Which is– she’s quick on her feet, Faith.
[someone in the audience: She had to be] I like her. I’m having this thing with–
Jenny: She had to be. You read Go Ask Malice ?
Kristin: Oh my god. Welcome to the book club section of the–
Jenny: She had a really rough childhood.
Kristin: Okay, I’ll read the book, I’m gonna read the book. Don’t spoil it for me!
Jenny: Okay!
Kristin: I have this whole thing with Faith because when I first watched the series I really didn’t get into Faith right away. I was like, I don’t know and then I got into Faith eventually and so now that I’m rewatching I feel like the queerest I’ve ever been in my life. I’m like "Hooooh!" I can’t– everything she does I just love. Anyway so then we have this scene in the Bronze where first of all, Xander says "I’d rather just shoot." Who are you? "I’d rather just shoot."
Jenny: And it’s the first time he’s ever played pool.
Kristin: Ever played pool, in his whole life.
Jenny: In his life.
Kristin: But then you know, we see that Faith is very jealous bringing up– and this is really, I should have brought you up Kate right when I started talking about loving queer things with Faith ‘cause you’re queer and you know, you probably love Faith and you have beautiful hair. Kate Leth would you come– I’m going to play you some music as you ah-hem, take the stage.
[Fashion Watch Jingle plays: It’s time for our friend Kate, to give you the Buffy fashion update!] [audience cheers and claps]
Kristin: It’ll just play...it’s gonna play on the- [jingle starts to play again] Ah-hem. Don’t worry I’ll get better at the whole jingle thing.
Kate: Did someone say latent bisexuality? [audience laughs] I’m here now.
Kristin: Kate!
Kate: Hello!
Kristin: Finally the throuple is together again!
Kate: I was going to say that!
Kristin: Well you know what happens after awhile, you just start finishing each other's sentences.
Kate: That’s true, that’s true. Hello everyone!
Kristin: Hello!
Jenny: Hello.
Kate: Welcome to a mediocre episode. It’s got some highlights for sure, not just Buffy’s.
Kristin: Ohhhhhhh, [imitates rimshot] ba-dan-dan-chhh!
Kate: I’ll be here for all the next five minutes or so.
Kristin: Well, but there is a lot of fashion!
Kate: There are so many outfits in this episode.
Kristin: You’ve gotta give– yeah! Really good shit.
Kate: Yeah, it definitely changes a lot. And I feel like I need to address the toque.
Kristin: The toque, do you– ?
Kate: Which is Canadian parlance. And you will forgive me again, it’s a beanie or a– what are the other names? Listen.
Jenny: A knit hat.
Kate: A knit hat, a stocking cap. I tried to look up why it’s called a toque in Canada, and there is no real concise answer. It’s just like– French Canadians just did that. They just called it that, and now it’s called that.
Kristin: Just toque, is that what you call it naturally?
Kate: Yes. Yeah, that style of hat, what Christine was wearing would, to me be a toque.
Kristin: A toque.
Kate: Anyway Buffy is wearing one that is like a knockoff Bebe one ‘cause what does it– ?
Jenny: Yeeeeeess.
Kate: Yeah it’s like they couldn’t say Bebe so it’s– what does it say?
Jenny: Bomb.
Kate: Bomb, right.
Kristin: Yeah, Kate, you– so Kate right before the show came over and was like, "I’m gonna talk about toques and beanies," and I got so excited because Kate, we brought you something.
Kate: [gasps] Oh no.
Kristen: Tonight– I don’t wanna say that it’s well crafted, but we made you [Kate and the audience laughs] a toque! We didn’t even know that you were gonna talk about it! It’s not gonna last for a long time.
Jenny: No, it’s days are numbered.
Kristin: I made it with stickers and sequins but yeah, you can wear– feel free.
Kate: Pardone, I’m gonna just.
Kristin: This is great.
Kate: Par-don this cap. Thank you. My– Oh! It’s–
Kristin: Yeah don’t– It’s sticky, it’s sticky!
Kate: It’s very sticky.
Kristin: It’s just stickers, they’re just stickers, so.
Kate: No, it’s fine, it’s fine it goes with the hair that I’m wearing today. I’m very happy. Yeah, no, it’s perfect.
Kristin: It looks amazing.
Kate: No there are a lot of outfits in this episode. Spaghetti straps are represented hard in this one.
Kristin: Yes!
Kate: Multiple times, Buffy wears that shirt at the beginning that’s what– those weird shirts that kind of like hang, the drapey ones.
Kristin: Yeah, if you wash it one time it’s over for that.
Kate: Yeah, no, it’s done. And there’s a character who comes on later who wears a lot of those but it was very, of an era. Even though this scene in the library with Willow and [mumbles] Xander is…
Kristin: That’s the jingle! That’s Xander’s jingle.
Jenny: [exaggerated sighing the word Xander in the background]
Kate: It’s just me going, "he’s a piss baby. It’s [mumbles]Xander." There you go. Even though I hate that scene, Willow is wearing a really cute shirt combo that’s like a dark blue spaghetti strap top with like a mesh top over it with some leaves on it. It looks very good. I did wanna also comment on that scene where Buffy is wearing the enormous red– plushy like, man’s peacoat for work. For working the dockyards.
Kristin: Maybe she borrowed Angel’s red peacoat.
Kate: That he brought back from hell! [audience laughs]
Kristin: From hell! Literally!
Kate: ‘Cause I remember– she’s walking and she’s walking next to Faith, who looks like, just beauty personified. Just every movement she takes is– just step on my face! I love her. [audience laughs and claps] She’s so good. This is why I come here. You can always rely on at least–
Jenny: Sorry, did you say, "Step on my face"?
Kate: I sure did. In those platform chunky wedge heels. [laughs] She wears so much pleather in this outfit. So many different pleathers. It’s a… pleath-ora?
Jenny: Oooh! [audience claps]
Kate: [laughing] I’m sorry. I didn’t prepare any of this.
Kristin: You don’t even have notes! You’re just coming up with–
Kate: I do– they’ve gone dark. But yeah, no, it is– it’s so funny ‘cause she’s walking, and she’s got this giant coat on and these drapey– her Tai Chi pants.
Kristin: Yes, yes.
Kate: Which she got, I don’t know, from Angel or from the Tai Chi store. But also, these, like, giant white Seinfeld sneakers.
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: [laughing] Yes!
Kate: And it’s like, you’re going out with Faith, Buffy. Like, can you… try? A little? [audience laughs]
Kristin: Maybe the lady doth protest too much, you know?
Kate: I’m thinking. She’s like, "Oh, this is my armor."
Kristin: Right, right.
Kate: "Oh no, the sexy won’t get on me." [audience laughs] Faith looks amazing in this episode. Her lipstick is, like, so on point. I really even love her cute little lounge outfit in the very end of the episode. Her little shorts.
Kristin: Yes, when she’s lounging in bed.
Kate: Yeah. Lounging, being passive aggressive. Ugh!
Jenny: The ideal woman! [audience laughs]
Kate: And so gay.
Kristin: Her legs look great, you know?
Kate: Oh my god.
Kristin: This is a podcast about how much we love Faith, okay.
Kate: Yeah, every time I come on there’s a similar theme.
Jenny: "Kate is horny." [audience laughs]
Kate: It’s what I do best.
Kristin: I should start actually bringing a spray bottle, I think. We have one for Sam, our cat.
Kate: [sarcastically] Oh no!
Kristin: So I could just…
Kate: [sarcastically] I’d hate that!
Kristin: That’s exactly how Sam is with it. I’ll tell you what, she’s like, "Oh, I’m on the table, are you gonna spray me?" And we’re like, seriously? [audience laughs]
Kate: Oh, I’m dying a little inside and it’s great. I did wanna bring up– because you were talking about it before, and it is something that always bothers me when we’re going through these seasons of the show. All of the Watchers are so condescending and they always leave Giles out and they’re so shitty, when it’s like… dog, he is the only one with a slayer! [audience laughs]
Kristin: Right?! Right?
Kate: Why is he not, like, King Shit of Slayer Mountain?
Kristin: Right, and if he is hated, then why–
Kate: He has two! 
Kristin: Yeah.
Kate: And they’re just sitting around drinking tea, being like, [snooty voice] "Well, we don’t need to invite him to our scone party." It’s like, he’s got both! Dos slayers. I don’t understand it at all.
Kristin: I’m with you.
Kate: And she’s walking in, like, "Oh, you’re doing a really bad job." It’s like, do you have two slayers? Gwendolyn?
Kristin: Right? No, I agree with you. A hundred percent.
Kate: I will say that as much as I– when I was taking my notes about the outfits in the episode, Cordelia looks perfect as always. Love to see in her in argyle, that button-up–
Kristin: [gasps] That sweater! Right at the end, ugh.
Kate: Yep. Both very good, both very good. [audience giggles] Gwendolyn looks like– when she does start to get a little evil towards the end and like…
Kristin: Yes!
Kate: Yeah, a little bit? Like, when she lets the hair down– I feel like you can’t take me seriously in this hat but you’re gonna have to. [audience laughs]
Kristin: No, I can only take you seriously in that hat. It looks so good.
Kate: Thank you very much.
Kristin: Someone called her, when she gets to the end, "Gwendolyn Postal." [audience approves] Which I thought was good. And I’m also– I’m kinda into Gwendolyn Postal.
Kate: I had to update my hat.
Kristin: Yeah, it’s good.
Kate: Thank you. I want to compliment you both on your jackets. I wanted to say something when you first came on stage, but I heckled so much at the Flame Con show [Kristin and Jenny laugh] that I was trying to rein it in and not just be like, "You’re hot!" [audience laughs] But it’s very good. It’s very good and iconic.
Kristin: Yeah, we were like, should we both be Faith? Yes. Faith/Faith.
Kate: Well, I tried to do the Buffy thing because she wears several cardigans in this episode.
Jenny: [laughing] Oh my god.
Kristin: Yes!
Kate: This is my homage.
Kristin: And you’re still Buffy with the hat!
Jenny: Amazing.
Kate: I would have to also be wearing, like, a spaghetti-strap tank top–
Jenny: And an enormous peacoat. [audience laughs]
Kate: And a beanie. Toque. I’m trying to translate.
[Someone in the audience: And a headband.]
Kristin: A toque. And a head– I love that little headband.
Kate: Oh, yeah, oh! That was, the other thing is, when she is doing Tai Chi, when she is in the normal tank top and she’s got her hair up, that is a good look.
Kristin: Yeah.
Kate: Like, her hair-up look is very, very sharp.
Kristin: Shoulders lookin’ really nice. I’m just like, totally off the mic and I’m like, "right, Kate?" [audience laughs] "I’m having a great time too!"
Kate: Faith’s white tank top, pleather jeans is– pants? No, they’re not jeans. They’re pleather pants. I can’t talk when I think about them. [audience laughs]
Kristin: Yeah. I get it.
Kate: They’re just inside me somehow.
Kristin: I think everybody looked real good in this episode.
Kate: They did, they did. I even almost wrote down, but then remembered who I was, that Xander wore a nice shirt.
Kristin: Ohh!
Kate: ‘Cause when they’re in the library and he’s wearing a button-up shirt, it actually fits him. It’s not four sizes too big, as per usual, or worn over a dumpy old t-shirt. It fits, it’s a decent pattern, not too loud, but a little playful.
Kristin: Yeah! It was okay.
Kate: I liked it.
Kristin: It was okay. I mean, Jenny’s favorite Xander look, I guess, is the speedo. I disagree. [Kate laughs; audience claps]
Kristin: But um… but yeah, I think that shirt was alright.
Kate: It was fine.
Kristin: It was fine.
Kate: And for Xander, that’s just, like, a miracle, you know?
Kristin: Yeah. [laughs]
Kate: I’m not above being petty to him. He’s done enough wrong to me.
Kristin: Yeah, no. I’m just gonna get shirts that say, "Down with Pissbaby." [audience laughs] Put ‘em in the store. We’ll all know what we mean.
Kate: "Randy for Giles," "Down with Pissbaby." We’re racking up a list, it’s great.
Kristin: I also want a shirt that says, "Bored Now." If you know what that means, you know what it means, right? [audience approves and claps]
Kate: Very– yeah.
Kristin: See, Jenny?! They love it! Kate, did you have any other things that you want to discuss with us before we bid you adieu? That’s French, right?
Kate: That is… French. [audience laughs]
Kristin: [laughing] I sound really sexy when I say words in French too, don’t I?
Kate: Oui. [audience laughs] No, this one is fine. I do think it’s very much– it’s on a theme. This one’s on a theme, it’s "Revelations." It’s in the title.
Kristin: Yeah, it’s got a point. It needs a– yeah.
Kate: There are a couple thematic episodes coming up that I think are better. And more heartbreaking. We’ll see what happens.
Kristin: Yeah, who knows? Not me.
Kate: It’s interesting. I hate… I hate the divide between Buffy and Faith. But like you, in the beginning– what is the line that Buffy says when she’s like, "Oh, really we’re just good friends."
Kristin: Yeah, yeah, that’s part of my erotic novel.
Kate: Which, like, Glinda and Elphaba also tried to make the same claim. [audience laughs and claps] And I’m just saying… "just good friends" might have been 90s, early-2000s for "gal pals."
Kristin: For gal pal– it– yes. A hundred percent.
Kate: Two good friends.
Kristin: They were going for this. There’s no way they weren’t going for it.
Kate: I had never noticed it before. I haven’t watched this episode in a long time because I think when I go back through the episodes, I see the screenshot of Gwendolyn and I’m like, ugh, pass. But I went through it again, I was like, "oh, there are some good bits in this one." It’s alright? It’s alright?
Kristin: It’s alright. It’s gets an alright– it gets a "hate it" from Ira. A "don’t like it" from Kristine. And an "alright" from Kate.
Kate: You get Faith in jean shorts–
Jenny: Yeah!
Kate: And you get that weird hat. There’s a lot to be enjoyed in this episode. Giles is also very cute, always. Like, you know, whatever.
Kristin: Yeah, and Giles, we see Giles knocked out. Giles goes down, actually in the next scene we were about to talk about. [chuckles] Are you– are you–
Kate: I’ll tee you up for it!
Kristin: [laughs] Kate was like, "Yeah, Giles, mm-hmm, talk to me more about Giles." He gets knocked out and somebody did the count for us, I think we’re at twelve. [audience laughs] Twelfth knock-out for Giles, we’re at Season 3, Episode 7. We’ll keep the count going for you all.
Kate: It’s hard to talk about Giles in this episode when we just talked about Giles in "Band Candy" and–
Kristin: Yeah, you haven’t heard that yet but we already recorded it.
Kate: Oh, buddy! I’m sorry? I guess. You don’t– well. You’ll know by now. So, you’re welcome? [Jenny and Kristin laugh]
Kristin: Well, hold on, Kate, I have to get your– okay, I’m ready for your jingle. Kate Leth, everybody! [audience cheers] [Buffy Fashion Watch jingle plays] That was our friend, Kate She gave you the Buffy fashion update
Kate: I did, that’s me! [audience laughs]
Kristin: Wow. Kate, maybe in Season 4, we should get you to do a "that’s me!" at the end. [Audience laughs] I really like that!
Kate: [at a distance] Okay!
Kristin: Alright. Shall we talk about the rest of this episode? Shall we round the bend?
Jenny: Let’s do that.
Kristin: Jenny, what do you have over there? In your beige jacket. Should I put my jacket back on now?
Jenny: Please put your jacket back on. I’ll tell everyone what happens.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: We got through the pool shooting thing, where Xander and Faith decide that they’re gonna go do something violent. Then they swing by, where else, when you need a bunch of weapons? The Sunnydale public high school library, where there is a cage with a lock on it and a cabinet inside the cage with a lock on it. Neither of them are locked. [audience laughs] There’s just crossbows and wooden baseball bats with weird big hooks attached to the end of them for the taking.
Kristin: Right? I asked Jenny what it was. I was like, "What is that weapon, wife? You will know." And she was like, "I think it’s a baseball bat with a hook on it." [audience laughs]
Jenny: That’s the technical term. But of course, they hear Giles groaning, they go to check it out. And Xander has this rare moment of being like, "Okay, well, I don’t see bite marks and it’s really important for us to call 911." Meanwhile, Faith is like, "Screw the unconscious librarian." Kate, that is not an invitation. [Audience laughs and claps] "We need to go kill Angel and that’s the only thing that matters at all right now, please."
Kristin: Yeah, and I really liked Xander in that moment. I was like, okay, Xander knows. He’s part of the Scooby gang, he’s being totally chill about this–
Jenny: But then of course as soon as Buffy shows up and is part of the equation...
Kristin: Yeah! Not cool, man.
Jenny: Xander’s like– [grunts]. Like, what even is he doing? "She’s a big girl, she came to her own conclusion." Like, this is exactly the opposite vibe that you– it’s just unreasonable. And it’s very clear that even though Cordelia is perfect, and Xander somehow is dating her, he is still hung up on Buffy, and it’s all about Buffy.
Kristin: Yeah, agree. Also, this– so right, when Buffy rolls in and learns that– you know, and then Xander’s a pissbaby, blah blah blah. Giles has a really great line that I think you loved, when Giles said this. You want me to say it? [clears throat] "Use… living… flames." [audience laughs] He says it so– I mean, I know he was just knocked unconscious, but I feel like Anthony Stewart Head might have taken it a little over the top. I like it, but… "Use!"... like, three minutes of silence... "living!" [audience laughs]
Jenny: So then everybody except Giles goes to vamp mansion.
Kristin: Wait, hold on, before we get to vamp mansion, ‘cause that’s when everything gets all crazy, I wanna talk about the scene that we skipped with Willow and Buffy in the cemetery.
Jenny: Bad friend Buffy!
Kristin: Yeah! Okay, right? Because– okay, so Willow is like, "I have a secret too and I’ll tell you about it, and isn’t your secret sexy?" Like, she gives a million clues that she’s got something huge to tell Buffy. And then after this whole, you know, Lagos situation happens, Buffy’s like, "What were gonna tell me?" and she’s like, "I just opened my SAT booklet early." And it’s like, any friend who’s paying any attention or knows their friend at all is going to be like, "Yeah, no. What’s your– out with your secret." And Buffy is just very, being very Capricorn, as Jess Abbott would say, and just very centered on herself here. But this scene is also the most incredible reaction sequence from Willow, ever. I’m sure many of you are familiar with the many, many GIFs. Like, every reaction she has is GIFed. And for good reason, they’re all just, you know, these little abbreviated winces, and– ugh, it’s just really great. But moral of the story is Buffy is a super bad friend in this moment. Not cool.
Jenny: So vamp mansion!
Kristin: Yes, vamp mansion.
Jenny: Couple things. Gwendolyn breaks a, like, antique, very "they don’t make ‘em like this anymore" wooden-handled shovel over her delicate little knee–
Kristin: I’m into it! [audience laughs]
Jenny: With no problem whatsoever. Kristin’s on board. And then Faith rolls up and it’s time for Slayer Fight.
Kristin: Also, don’t forget that before that happens, Angel is once again speaking what we think is Latin. And I’m pretty sure that he says "Four Loko." [audience laughs] He’s like, "Four Loko, Mountain Dew, Jolt." And then the flame becomes lit– it actually would make sense, if you poured some Four Loko on that flame. Maybe he really did say "Four Loko." I don’t even think it was a thing yet. Anyway, right, sorry. I took you off-course. Gwendolyn Post gets knocked down after breaking a large stick over her knee. [pause] Are you okay? Is the microphone okay?
Jenny: It’s over.
Kristin: It’s over.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: What do you mean, it’s over?
Jenny: Uh, it refuses– it’s– uh, it has clocked out.
Kristin: She– you realize she’s saying nothing, right? "What do you mean?" "It is over." [audience laughs] "What do you mean by it is over?" "I mean it is over." Okay, fine. Don’t worry, we have Zack. Zack will save us. The last time that we did a live taping at NerdMelt, the only other time that we were here, Jenny spoiled– [audience giggles] uh, Jenny spoiled Jenny Calendar’s death before we got there. And it was…
[Someone in audience: What?!]
Kristin: Yeah, no, you can’t be a spoiler anymore! Oh my god, I just got, like, hot. [audience laughs] From– not the jacket. I always think about it, like, eight times before I say it. I’m like, no, it happened 20 years ago, you already did it, like, months ago so you can say it now. Jenny Calendar did die, okay. But anyhow, you recovered from that so I believe you’ll recover from this.
Jenny: I believe you’re right.
Kristin: And I’ve also been so panicked this entire time, ‘cause I just gave her such shit afterwards. Like, not bad shit, but just like, "ha-ha, that was funny. You remember when you spoiled it, ha-ha-ha–" uh, that I was going to spoil something. So hopefully I’ll make it. Oh, hi. Hi, Zack.
Jenny: Praise you, Zack. Thank you, Zack.
Kristin: Oh, is that what you meant? The card was over?
Jenny: [at a distance] Mm-hmm.
Kristin: But a person could say that. [audience laughs] You know what I mean?! The card ran out. [laughs] Alright. I’m gonna wait– we’ll wait for Jenny. Don’t worry, don’t worry, I’ll entertain them with jingles! [audience laughs] Here’s a jingle about Willow. [Willow jingle plays] Who knows the square root of twelve hundred and twenty-five? Willow!
[Audience sings: "Willow!"]
Kristin: Nice, guys! [Willow jingle continues] Gentle of heart and nimble with a hard drive!
Kristin: Who?! [Audience sings along] Willow! Willow, Willow, Willow!
Kristin: Aw. [Applause]
Kristin: Oh my god, also I played the Willow jingle while you were figuring out technology!
[Audience: Awww!]
Kristin: Did you fix– did you figure it out?
Jenny: Yes, yes, yes, yes!
Kristin: Thank god! Oh my god. Willow saved us all. Okay, so Gwendolyn Post falls on the floor. Faith walks in. Right?
Jenny: Slayer fight!
Kristin: Well, yeah, because Faith is immediately like, "Angel obviously did this." And then Buffy is like, "No, but you can’t kill my boyfriend." And Faith is like, "Well, watch me. Because I’m gonna kill him, and then you’re gonna date me!" [audience laughs] But first, we’re gonna metaphorically–
Jenny: A tale as old as time. [audience laughs]
Kristin: " But first, we’re gonna metaphorically bone by fighting each other!" That’s what it means in the universe of slaying, when you fight, you’re actually… you know. Having sex. Right?
Jenny: You know how sometimes you just have to go crashing through two huge glass pane French doors out into the courtyard?
Kristin: Ah, it’s great.
Jenny: While entangled with another Chosen One?
Kristin: Also, then Pissbaby comes out and he’s like, "Hey guys, a man’s here." And Faith’s like, fling. [audience laughs] And throws him– just fucking tosses him to the side!
Jenny: Tosses him like an empty Burger King bag. [audience laughs]
Kristin: [laughs] Ohh, it’s great. It’s great, it’s great. Also, there’s a line that I think everybody really loves during this scene, where Faith says to Buffy, "You’re confused, Twinkie." [audience laughs] It’s a good line, you know? I also wanna mention– so, okay. They fight, and then, like, Gwendolyn puts on the glove. And it looks a lot like Ira’s shirt, we saw illustrated before. Lightning, you know, was pulled from the skies.
Jenny: Mmm. Yes.
Kristin: And it makes Buffy and Faith freeze, but they’re, like, hold–
Jenny: But they’re just holding each other!
Kristin: Do you wanna try to– like, let’s just… [at a distance] you know what I mean? They’re like… [audience laughs and claps as Kristin and Jenny presumably hold each other] And they just stay like that for a minute, and it’s great. And then Gwendolyn, you know– oh, Faith is asked– Buffy’s like, "can you take the fire?" Yeah, sorry, go ahead, what do you–
Jenny: No, please, please, please.
Kristin: Well, I just think that this is a great moment for Faith. ‘Cause Faith has been totally, you know, mentally fucked by Gwendolyn, who’s like, telling her this and telling her that. She’s just feeling not herself and very confused. Her watcher died and now she’s feeling like her next watcher is gonna die. And she still is, like– pivots, and Buffy’s like, "Can you take the fire?" And she’s like, "Fuck yeah I can." And she fucking runs and does– she doesn’t miss a beat. I’m just saying, I’m happy. I’m very proud of Faith.
Jenny: She did a great job. You know what you can’t do, is take a piece of broken window glass and hurl it and cut someone’s arm off. [audience laughs] You just can’t!
Kristin: Are you sure?
Jenny: I’m pretty sure. I’m pretty sure you just can’t.
Kristin: If you’re listening to this podcast, either here or later on, let us know if it’s actually not possible… to glass-window an arm off. I’m just saying! [audience laughs] I feel like maybe you can. Jenny– okay, before we get to her arm falling off though, the slayer fight happens. So I would like to award… ["Sexual Tension Award" jingle plays] Sexual Tension Award.
Jenny: No contest!
Kristin: Come on!
Jenny: Faith and Buffy obviously!
Kristin: Faith and Buffy. [applause]
Jenny: It’s gonna happen for them.
Kristin: It will. We might not hear about it, but it will happen for them, if it hasn’t already. I also just wanted to talk about the fact that– something we noticed during our live watch was that– so Gwendolyn Post puts the glove on and shatters the glass. Which is, like, a really intense moment, all the glass falls in her eyes. And she just doesn’t even care! She doesn’t wince when the glove goes into her arm, she doesn’t care when the glass– she’s tough and I like her. [audience laughs] But then I was like, "Oh my god, Gwendolyn Post is a female watcher and she just shattered the glass ceiling." [audience approves] Right? I don’t know, normally we don’t have so many one-liners, but that’s the kind of night it is, you know? [Jenny laughs] She does it and then, right, her arm gets whacked off.
Jenny: Yeah, y– [abruptly stops as audience laughs]
Kristin: What? [audience continues laughing] Seriously?! Everyone has lost their minds!
Jenny: I didn’t go alone to that island.
Kristin: I’m sorry, I’m half Italian, you can say "whacked off" and it means– [audience laughs] I gotta go! Her arm falls off…  having two mics is really intense.
Jenny: It is pretty intense. Then we get the phrase "get pelvic"?
Kristin: Nobody...
Jenny: Which is such a bummer.
Kristin: Nobody wants that.
Jenny: Such a bummer. And Buffy is like, "Oh, Xander, are we cool?"
[Someone in audience: Ugh! [audience laughs]]
Jenny: The longer this goes on, the more I’m just on Ira’s side. Everyone is trash. [audience laughs]
Kristin: I don’t know, but then Giles comes out with his little bandage and his green mug and he looks all beat up.
Jenny: Ugh! So beat up.
Kristin: And I’m like, "Giles, man, that’s only time twelve and you’re gonna have so many more." [everyone laughs] And so then we’re getting to our last scene. The last scene is pretty intense. We talked about it a little bit already. But I think the real thing that happens here is that Faith– who didn’t have a lot of ability to trust, even when she arrived on the scene, reasons of which, you both know, ‘cause you read the book Go Ask Malice. [laughs] But this whole thing has definitely fucked her up and she’s just feeling like she can’t trust anyone.
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: Even the girl she’s in love with. [audience laughs]
Jenny: Even the girl she’s in love with. ‘Cause earlier in the show, she just said you can’t trust men. But now she’s like, you can’t trust anyone.
Kristin: Ugh. Deep blow. Gal pals, down. [audience laughs] I have another one-liner from– I’m sorry! People said amazing things. ‘Cause somebody in the– Alyssa in the live feed was like– ‘cause Buffy’s dressed like Gwendolyn Post when she shows up in this scene. She’s got a tiny little purse and she might as well be wearing pearls. And I said that, and somebody in the live feed was like, "She’s dressing like a church girl because she wants to have Faith!" [audience approves] How am I not gonna share that with you all?
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: So good. So anyhow. Then Faith is like, [breathy voice] "Buffy…"
Jenny: [laughs] And the longest pause ever, and Buffy turns back–
Kristin: The longest pause! You can see it, it’s just lots of ellipses on my notes.
Jenny: And in her head, Faith is like, "I love you. Don’t leave."
Kristin: Ugh, but then like every lesbian or queer person who has ever been in love with a person where they’re afraid to say it, she says... nothing. And then she probably goes on AOL instant messenger. [Jenny and the audience laugh] Talks to her friends about how she didn’t do it again, she didn’t tell her again! [Kristin sighs]
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Puts up a new away message. [audience laughs]
Kristin: Yeah, puts up a new away message and– [Patrol Cat jingle starts playing abruptly] Wait, I didn’t do this.
Jenny: What is the meaning of...
Kristin: Why is this song playing? [audience cheers]
Jenny: Oh! Classic.
Kristin: Are you kidding me? I can’t even believe it!
Jenny: Who could have ever predicted we would be in a public place, recording a podcast, and Gaby Dunn… would force her way onto the stage? [audience laughs and cheers]
Gaby: Did you two think that you would do a podcast recording and not invite me up onto the– did you two really think?!
Kristin: I mean, we tried, Gaby!
Gaby: Your mistake was advertising this at all. [audience laughs] Putting it on social media! Texting me!
Kristin: Alright, everybody, before you leave–
Gaby: Having me to your home for dinner!
Kristin: That’s true, we did do that, we did do that.
Jenny: That was a mistake. The market is just oversaturated, Gaby. In terms–
Gaby: With what?!
Jenny: With Gaby. [audience laughs]
Gaby: No, I don’t think so–
Kristin: Wow, deep burn.
Jenny: The Buffering the Vampire Slayer market is oversaturated–
Gaby: All press is good press, Jenny! All press is good press.
Kristin: We’ll need everybody to give us your mailing addresses before you leave so the next time we do a live show, we can just mail you an invitation. [audience laughs] Don’t put it on social media.
Gaby: I got deep roots in this town, Kristin. [everyone laughs] I’ll know what’s going on! You think the people at Nerdist don’t have my number? Find out. Wow. Wow, wow, wow.
Kristin: Hi, Gaby!
Gaby: First of all, you moved away from my cat version of myself.
Kristin: I know, we did. We did and we invited you over for dinner, because we love you but also because we were hoping that–
Gaby: In the hopes the cat would follow my scent.
Kristin: Yeah.
Gaby: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: So we’ve been waiting.
Gaby: Yeah. So that’s fucked up. [audience laughs] That you did that.
Kristin: I see, this is going to be a roast?
Gaby: Yeah because what’s that cat doing now? Who doesn’t know? Neither of you. And then two– so now what are you gonna do with that jingle?
Kristin: I mean, you just used it to commandeer the stage, so–
Gaby: I did do that, yeah.
Kristin: I mean, I’m hoping– you only came over for dinner, what, like a week ago? Not even? So I don’t know. I mean, you let us know what we’re gonna do with the jingle for Patrol Cat.
Gaby: Do they know about the peacocks?
Kristin: Does who know? These people?
Gaby: The audience, your fan base. The people who listen to this beautiful show.
Kristin: This is a breaking moment for Patrol Peacocks. Would you like to tell them about the patrol–
Gaby: Oh, they don’t know?
Kristin: They don’t know. You should tell them. You should tell them.
Gaby: Alright, great. So what they have now in their house is a family of peacocks?
Jenny: Not in our house. [audience laughs]
Gaby: Do you guys live at goddamn– do you live at Hogwarts? Like, what is this shit? So they have, like, a family of peacocks that live at their house. And, like– on the steps. Greet you every morning.
Jenny: That’s… an exaggeration.
Kristin: It’s close, though.
Gaby: It’s like a weird Disney movie thing. They just bring you a coffee on their little peacock head. [all laugh] Wake you every morning. But then–
Kristin: We really do have a family of peacocks.
Gaby: Yeah, I’m not making that up!
Kristin: I know! [audience laughs] But you know… I wanted to make sure they knew that you weren’t spinning a yarn.
Gaby: Yeah, there’s five of them. Right? There’s, like, one, a mom peacock–
Jenny: A mom and five, like, adolescent pea-fowl. [audience laughs]
Gaby: Yeah. I said, "oh, five babies?" and she went, "I mean, they’re teenagers." [audience laughs] And I was like… what?
Kristin: They sit on the porch. They just sit there and cluck. They make this, like, snapping noise–
Jenny: It’s wild.
Gaby: Then, as what happened with Patrol Cat, I did not believe you at all. And then you were like, so ready from how no one believed you about Patrol Cat that you were like, "I have it on film!" Like, you had filmed it because you– almost like you’re a Bigfoot hunter and everyone’s, like, over it. Like, your friends are like, "No, Bigfoot doesn’t exist." And you’re like, "No, it does!" and then you just show us a rustling leaf and we’re like, "God, Jenny’s at it again! [all laugh] Someone has to help her!"
Kristin: She’s the cryptid keeper. That’s your name.
Gaby: Aww!
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: Jenny, the cryptid keeper.
Gaby: I also almost came on stage to fix your Zoom.
Jenny: Thank you. For almost doing that.
Gaby: But I was like, how on-brand would that be for me to just, like, show up–
Jenny: Very on-brand.
Gaby: And be like, "Ugh, I know I had this whole thing set up, but what you have to do is format the card." [Jenny and Kristin laugh] You did so great. Everyone was proud of you.
Jenny: Thank you for your support.
Gaby: So yeah. So, um–
Kristin: Did you have any Buffy opinions about this show before we wrap up?
Gaby: Oh, you wanted me to not talk about myself? Oh my god.
Jenny: Whoa.
Kristin: No, no, no. I wanted you to talk mostly all about yourself–
Jenny: Just a long list of URLs of your various projects.
Gaby: Sure, yeah, yeah, yeah. Gabydunn.com, gabyandallison.com, Just Between Us Show–
Kristin: I Hate Everyone But You–
Gaby: Sure, yeah, that’s my book, New York Times bestseller, thank you so much.
Kristin: It’s actually really great. Jenny and I just finished reading your book and it fucking rules.
Jenny: I finished it first, so...
Gaby: Thank you!
Kristin: [laughs] You just became that character from SNL, "I finished it first, so..."
Gaby: I went to their beautiful home and they each had their own copy of my book on their little nightstands.
Kristin: We did.
Gaby: It was adorable.
Kristin: It wasn’t even planted for Gaby’s visit. It was real.
Gaby: Yeah. And I just like to walk around people’s bedrooms and make sure my book is there. [everyone laughs]
Kristin: She walked in and she was like, "check and check."
Jenny: Book, book, great.
Gaby: Yeah, I– okay, when I first watched this show, I think I thought that Buffy wasn’t into Faith. But now maybe I think she’s just confused.
Kristin: Yeah, right, right. We’ve all been there.
Gaby: Yeah. ‘Cause I thought, "Oh, Faith’s into her and it’s sad." But now I think maybe I was just taking it like a very black-and-white view of it, and now I’m like, "Ah, shit’s complicated. We’re grown-ups."
Kristin: Well also, maybe when you originally watched it, you didn’t understand that, like, that dynamic could end with both of them wanting to make out with each other. You know what I mean? Like, perhaps you were just in love with your straight best friend and it wasn’t reciprocated but then, like, as the years went by, you realized that everyone is gay. [audience laughs]
Gaby: That’s true.
Kristin: [empathetically] Dot com! [audience claps]
Gaby: I said that to my girlfriend last night. I was like, laughing– I started maniacally laughing on the street. And she was like, "Why are you laughing?" And I was like, "‘Cause when I was a kid, I was like, oh, it’d be so cool to be best friends with a girl. Like, such best friends that we kiss." [audience laughs] And then I laughed so hard and she was like "Why are you"– like, literally cackling maniacally on the street. And I went, "It happened!" So that’s my night last night.
Kristin: When I was a kid, I used to write– like, all my short stories, I was a single mom with a daughter. But like, I had no reasoning for it. But I think I couldn’t picture any– like, I was like, I know there will not be a man.
Gaby: So… no one?
Kristin: So no one! I know, I didn’t have the– it was the early 90s. I didn’t have any examples. Media representation was not there for me, guys.
Gaby: Just a lot of Disney movies with single parents. [everyone laughs]
Kristin: Also, my daughter’s name was Storm, in case you wanted to know.
Jenny: So you and Storm live alone in a house covered with Neve Campbell posters.
Kristin: Yes! [audience laughs] Fuck yes!
Gaby: Made out of Neve Campbell cutouts, like, from movie theaters. Wait, wait! Is this the end of the episode?
Kristin: This is the end of the episode, yeah.
Gaby: That’s sad.
Kristin: Oh. [a few audience members laugh] I think we all agree, we don’t ever want it to end. Let me, um– you wanna stay up here when we howl out?
Gaby: Sure, yeah, yeah!
Kristin: And will you all howl out with us? [audience approves] Alright, first let me just make sure that we tap into the end of this…
Gaby: You guys– by the way, you look beautiful. You’ve been doing an amazing job.
Kristin: I’m gonna play this over you.
Gaby: Both of you– [audience laughs]
[Gaby Dunn theme plays: She loves being mentioned, Ooh that Gaby Dunn!]
Gaby: Oh yeah. Wow, how can I get that to play when people call me? Like a ringback tone?
Kristin: Yeah, we can make that happen for you. [laughs]
Gaby: For people who don’t listen to this, they’ll be like, "She’s gone off the rails." [everyone laughs] But yeah, you guys both look– for the podcast audience who’s only audio– you look beautiful. You both– your hair looks great. You’re both wearing– are you wearing a choker? You’re both wearing chok–
Jenny: Gaby, we’re already in a throuple with Kate.
Gaby: And Brittani Nichols and a million other people! [audience laughs]
Jenny: That’s true.
Gaby: This isn’t an exclusive situation!
Kristin: Yeah, we have throuple throuples, so…
Gaby: Yeah. I’ll throw my hat in the ring. And you both– you did such a good job. You’re so charming. You did such a great job commanding the audience.
Kristin: Wow, Gaby.
Gaby: That’s all. I was just admiring you. I said, in the back, out loud to myself multiple times, "They’re so funny!" [audience laughs]
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: That’s so nice! Aw, man, now we’re gonna invite you to the next one. [Kristin and Jenny laugh]
Gaby: I know, don’t you feel bad that everyone thought I was self-centered, but the truth is, I’m so nice?
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: I see what you’ve done here. Gaby Dunn, everyone!
Gaby: Thanks! [applause]
Kristin: Stay! Stay to howl out with us!
Gaby: No, I’ll howl, I’ll howl.
Kristin: Howl out with us.
Jenny: Alright!
Kristin: Alright, are you all ready? Do you wanna, like, [singing] "me-me-me" or anything? Get your howlers ready?
Gaby: That’s what I just did, I me-me-me’d for 20 minutes– I’m just kidding. [audience laughs]
Kristin: [laughing] That’s great!
Gaby: [clears throat] Okay.
Jenny: Thank you all so much! Thank you all so much for coming out this evening. You look amazing. You are amazing! And until next time!
Everyone: Awwoooooooo!
Kristin: [whispers] Yes!
Gaby: Beautiful.
Jenny: Really nice.
Kristin: Thank you all! [applause] [Jenny Owen Youngs performing "Revelations" off the album "Songs From Season Three" by Buffering the Vampire Slayer] I been hangin around with a new friend I wouldn’t say that we’re dating but we go slaying a lot All these feelings Keeping the secrets from my friends Angel’s shacked up at Vamp Mansion I should be good but I’m not I been walking a crooked line Makin’ messes with my exes Catches up to me every time Why’d I make it so complicated but from the wreck comes a revelation Oh no Caught in a romantic limbo If Angel could just keep his shirt closed we could all focus on work Screw this Gwendolyn Post type-a nonsense To hell with her pearls and her teabags She’s so mean to Giles - what a jerk! When you’re walking a crooked line Evil watcher, we almost gotcha Catches up to you every time Always make it so complicated but from the wreck comes a revelation Gwendolyn Absorbing all that lightning Into the glove of Myneghon til I sliced off her arm Faith’s got something to say to me, but what could she have to say to me I thought we trusted each other a lot, sigh When you’re walking a crooked line being a slayer has got its layers Catches up to you every time Always make it so complicated but from the wreck comes a revelation