Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 0.03: Welcome to the Mailbag Vol. 2
Jenny: Hey everybody! Before we get started, just want to let you know about a few exciting developments! [Kristin laughs] First of all, we have our first-ever live taping of a Buffering the Vampire Slayer episode.
Kristin: Ohh, my word.
Jenny: We’re gonna be doing it in Los Angeles at the NerdMelt Showroom, on February 2nd at 7 pm. You can get tickets at NerdMeltLA.com.
Kristin: And find out, once and for all, are we actually this great at talking or are we really good at editing? [laughter]
Jenny: Just a little editing humor for ya. Ha-HA!
Kristin: Wow. Yeah, so come, join us. It’s gonna be great. Next week, we’ll probably tell you about some guests that are gonna come.
Jenny: Mm-hmm!
Kristin: Uh-huh! Also, speaking of shows, to those of you who came out in New York City in Brooklyn to Union Hall to see our first ever live show– we didn’t do a live taping, per se. It wasn’t a proper episode, but we did play through the songs. We had–
Jenny: It was a celebration of Season 1!
Kristin: A celebration of Season 1. We had some incredible guests come up and talk to us. We had slayerettes who helped us with our music! And you can listen to that entire event now, totally free of charge. You go over to, drumroll please... our new Patreon page.
Jenny: Oh, I forgot to give you a drumroll.
Kristin: Try it again, Jenny.
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: Drumroll, please!
Jenny: [makes drumroll sound]
Kristin: Our new Patreon page!
Jenny: Badum-tch!
Kristin: [laughs] We have set up a Patreon page, patreon.com/bufferingcast. If you don’t know about Patreon, don’t be afraid. There will be a lot of free content there. It’s a great place for artists and podcasters and all sorts of human beings to put all of their materials. And then there is bonus materials for those who donate at the dollar, $5, or $10 mark. You can find out all about that over there, or you can say, "Screw that, you guys, I just wanna listen to the free episode!" You can go on over, and you can just click the sound file right there and listen to it.
Jenny: Oh yeah!
Kristin: And you’ll notice, as you’re listening to the sound file, that there are some visual cues. For example, I made four videos of slow-motion Cordelia. Those are accessible– all of the visual elements are accessible for any Patreon donor level, a dollar or more.
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: So if you want the full 360 experience, you can also get that over at patreon.com/bufferingcast.
Jenny: Yes indeed.
Kristin: Speaking of music–
Jenny: Holy smokes. Let me tell you something, since last we spoke, our
album, "Buffering the Vampire Slayer: Songs from Season 1," has become available on all digital platforms.
Kristin: Yeah!
Jenny: You can find it on iTunes, you can find it on Spotify, you can find it all over the digital land.
Kristin: Google Play!
Jenny: Yeah, Google Play. It’s everywhere. You can locate it, wherever you please. [Kristin laughs] And we encourage you to do that and we hope you enjoy it. We also wanna let you know that we have a handful– we did a second short run of CDs and we have a handful of those left, up on our website at bufferingthevampireslayer.com. If you click on "Store," or "Shop." And you can order that CD, I think... we have a few left and then there won’t be anymore.
Kristin: Yep! Well said.
Jenny: [laughing] Good math, right?
Kristin: [laughing] Well said, Jenny. "There are some and then there will be none." That is exactly how that will work.
Jenny: Unless no one ever orders another one ever again.
Kristin: Yeah, they just stop. That’s true. And then we’ll just have some CDs. Um... cool. Well, shall we get into it?
Jenny: Let’s.
NOTES: [THEME MUSIC]
Jenny: Hello and welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast where we usually talk about one episode of Buffy at a time in chronological order. But that’s not what we’re doing today. [Kristin laughs] I’m Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: And I’m Kristin Russo. And today we’re doing a mailbag episode.
Jenny: Hurray!
Kristin: So we ended Season 1 a few weeks ago.
Jenny: Sure did.
Kristin: And... we’ve been waking up every morning thinking, when are they going to put up another episode of this podcast?
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: And here we are, finally. Answering our own query. But before–
Jenny: Righ right right right. I wrote a letter to Santa. It was like, "Dear Santa, all I want for Christmas is more episodes of Buffering the Vampire Slayer. Stat."
Kristin: Well, Santa was a little delayed, but.
Jenny: He had a lot to take care of. Recently.
Kristin: He did. Yes, that’s true. So we’re back and we figured that the best way at this was– next week, on the 11th, we’ll be back with the very first episode of Season 2.
Jenny: Awooooo-ga.
Kristin: You’re not– wow. Good thing you clarified that with a "ga" at the end, ‘cause I thought you were a wolf howling.
Jenny: No, I wasn’t ready to wolf-howl.
Kristin: But before we get there, we want to tackle some of the incredible emails that we’ve gotten over the season. And in addition to talking about some of the emails we’ve received from all of you, some of you sent us your very favorite moments from Season 1. So we’re gonna kinda crawl through all of that wonderful material and talk about it where talking is needed. And listen where listening is needed. It’s gonna be... just lovely.
Jenny: It sounds pretty great.
Kristin: I really– I think I did a good job selling it. [laughs]
Jenny: I– yeah, I’m totally sold. I was not sold on this episode till right now.
Kristin: Perfect.
Jenny: Alright, let’s do this.
Kristin: Let’s do this. So our very first email is from Paloma. Paloma says, "Dear Jenny and Kristin, just got off of the Buffering ‘Halloween’ hangout. It was so cool! Thanks for answering my question and responding to some of my comments. Along with being a fan of Buffy since I was a twelve-year-old lesbian, at age 24, I’m now a large fan of you guys, too. Buffy was sort of my intro into the TV geek world. What was your guys’ intros into whatever geeky world you are in?" So I figured this would be a good place to start.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: ‘Cause like, how did you become the geek you are, Jenny? What was your entry point?
Jenny: Well, I feel like, um... there was a lot of sci-fi movie viewing happening in my house. Like, as we’ve discussed privately but not on the podcast, I was exposed to movies like Alien and Aliens at a– probably too young of an age. [Kristin laughs] But that kinda like, got into me and when I was in elementary school, I read a lot of comic books. Which I think was kind of a thing that was passed down from my older brother. I read a lot of like, Spider-Man and She-Hawk and X-Men . X-Men in particular really has a lot of meaning for me.
Kristin: Do you think that you would have had access to the comics if you didn’t have an older brother?
Jenny: No. Well, I had a lot of like, guy friends who also were into comics. But I– but it started, you know, at home.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And also, my brother was really into D&D, so I read a lot of his Forgotten Realms novels. And was just generally sort of pro-dragon, pro... monster, pro alien at a young age.
Kristin: I did not have any of that. I mean, I had like– I read, like, The Chronicles of Narnia as a kid, and was super into that. But I didn’t have anything around me that intrigued– sort of like, tempted me to enter further into those worlds. You know, I watched like, The NeverEnding Story . So there were like, some elements but I didn’t really recognize them as anything. It just like– cool stories. And then way later, like, in my 20s, I watched Iron Man . And I was like, hmm, I really enjoy this. This was a very enjoyable thing for me, and then from Iron Man, I was like, oh, I guess I liked Iron Man , I should watch X-Men. Maybe I would like that too. And then it was over. Like, that was it for me.
Jenny: [sings triumphant notes]
Kristin: ‘Cause it really– I didn’t understand, before watching X-Men , I didn’t understand why everyone was– like, I didn’t understand geek culture. I didn’t understand nerd culture. I didn’t understand why people loved comics so much. I just thought it was like, well, it’s cartoons and like, fun and whatever. You know? None of the larger underpinning messages and the importance of those messages was apparent to me at all. And then of course, X-Men , as it did for you, I guess, also, earlier, just sort of threw open the doors to like, holy shit. We’re talking about all this stuff right now in the context of this fantasy, this... other world, allows us to access things that we couldn’t otherwise. And then I– and then we started dating. And you were like, "You have to watch Buffy the Vampire Slayer. "
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: And I was like, ugh!
Jenny: You’re welcome.
Kristin: And now here I am. [laughter] So yeah. Thanks, Paloma! Thanks for the question.
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: Okay so next is an email from Daniel, who is commenting on, earlier in the season [Jenny laughs] we discussed... we discussed Giles’ car, right? You had a few choice words about Giles’ car, Jenny.
Jenny: I mean, it’s a shit heap.
Kristin: Well. Daniel begs to differ.
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: Daniel says: "I listened to the mailbag episode." That must have been where you first trashed Giles’ car. "And I did want to chime in on the lack of love and appreciation for Giles’ lovely Citroen– " oh– and thank, you Daniel– gave me the way to pronounce it. Cit-troy-in. "– car. Personally, I think it’s the perfect vehicle for Giles. It fits him like the funky old Volvo fits the 1970s detective Columbo, or Lorelai Gilmore’s Jeep suits her, the perfect vehicular reflection of the person. Giles drives a Model DS, which in French is pronounced day-ess." Thank you again, Daniel. "The same as ‘Déesse,’ which means ‘goddess,’ from Wikipedia."
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: I mean, goddess. Sourced from Wikipedia. "Cool, no? Citroen’s styling and engineering were known for their innovation and uniqueness. That racy, aerodynamic profile anticipates cars that came along much later. Of course, French cars were never very successful in this country and were kind of a joke from a practical perspective. But if you had ever ridden in a Citroen and experienced its legendary suspension, I think you would have more love for Giles’ choice of vehicle. I would assert that Whedon totally nailed it when he gave Giles a Citroen and I suggest, in the future, more admiration of the Gilesmobile is in order. Sincerely, Daniel." [laughs]
Jenny: Okay, listen, Daniel. So, Citroen, eh?
Kristin: Citroen, I said it wrong the whole time. But I did a good job with my reading, I think.
Jenny: You did a tremendous job.
Kristin: Thank you.
Jenny: Much emotion. So, here’s the thing. Um... any thing of beauty can be left to, uh, deterioration. And that’s my... that’s what bums me out about Giles’ car. I love the shape of it.
Kristin: Oooh!
Jenny: And I am a huge fan of smooth suspension. Kristin can attest.
Kristin: [laughs] For some reason, I feel like that could go in so many directions.
Jenny: I– no, no, no, no, no. Just for cars. So...
Kristin: But– oh, I have to interject now, Jenny. Because you’re saying that you are appreciative of what Daniel has given to us here, but you think Giles has held onto this car for too long.
Jenny: Or he’s not taking care of it.
Kristin: Oh, well, what if he’s taking– what if he, first of all. There’s just so much in there. Because Giles is–
Jenny: I know he’s busy.
Kristin: He’s so stressed out about taking good care of– well, no. I mean, I just think he’s–
Jenny: Oh, of Buffy.
Kristin: Right. And what if he’s just had this car for so long, he loves this car even though it’s falling apart. He wants to use this car, it means so much to him.
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: That’s a Giles character trait.
Jenny: [sighs] Yes, yes, yes.
Kristin: Admit defeat! [laughs]
Jenny: I don’t have to admit anything.
Kristin: I love this email. Daniel–
Jenny: Yeah, this is a great email, Daniel, thank you.
Kristin: Incredible. And we’re gonna have, like– so, we’re gonna go back and forth, you know, doing some emails and some recordings from you all. But I wanna say that we have three or four emails like this one, where you have written in to tell us the most incredible information.
Jenny: Minutely detailed.
Kristin: Minutely detailed, organized in a beautiful fashion.
Jenny: Thoughtfully crafted.
Kristin: Yes. So thank you, thank you, thank you. I think this is an appropriate time to hop to this email, from– well, you’ll say who it’s from, Jenny, ‘cause it’s kind of the point.
Jenny: Well, it’s from... Cordelia. Not Cordelia Chase, but a whole other Cordelia, if you can believe it.
Kristin: If you can believe it!
Jenny: Cordelia writes, "Hey there. Love the show. As a Cordelia, I just wanted to thank you so much for the amazing Cordelia love theme, which I’m using for my alarm and is giving me goddamn life in these dark times. As both a Cordelia and a queer, I very much appreciate any situation where I can hear cute girls talk about how much they love Cordelia. So thanks for that too." Wow.
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: What an email.
Kristin: An email from a real life Cordelia.
Jenny: In the flesh, flesh and blood, ones and zeroes.
Kristin: [laughing] My day has been made. Also, we get to– we get called "cute girls" in an– it’s just a winner of an email all–
Jenny: We assume that that’s– that they meant us.
Kristin: Well, yeah, right?
Jenny: I hope so.
Kristin: I mean, two cute girls talk about how much they love Cordelia. I think that’s us.
Jenny: Oh my gosh.
Kristin: I know. It’s pretty great. So to you, Cordelia, and to any other Cordelias–
Jenny: All the Cordelias out there.
Kristin: Yes. We love you.
Jenny: In Cordelia Land.
Kristin: You’re perfect.
NOTES: [Jenny singing the "Cordelia" jingle] Cordelia (ah-ahh) I love you, Cordelia (ah-ahh) You’re perfect, Cordelia (ah-ahh)
Jenny: So as we mentioned earlier, we put out a call to you all to send us voice memos where you talk about your favorite moment of Season 1. And we’re gonna listen to one now from a person who wished to remain anonymous. But urged us to call them Angiles, which is of course the contraction of Angel and Giles.
Kristin: Which they actually called a "portmanteau."
Jenny: Ah, some people are grown-ups with grown-up words.
Kristin: A portmanteau of the two characters. I–
Jenny: Is that how you pronounce that word?
Kristin: I don’t know if that’s how– I hear it in my head. And like, haven’t you heard that said before? Port-man-too?
Jenny: I’ve definitely seen the word but I don’t know if I’ve ever heard it said it– I would– my guess would be, por-mon-tow or something. I’m sorry, but I just didn’t–
Kristin: [laughs] Give that to us one more time? [Jenny laughs] Our friend Mey Rude is gonna like that. Can you give us your pronunciation again?
Jenny: I gotta go. I actually have to get going.
Kristin: Let’s see. [recorded voice says: "port-man-toe."] So... geez.
Jenny: Port man teau. Port man teau. Port man teau.
Kristin: Portman teau .
Jenny: No, she emphasized the "man."
Kristin: Port man teau.
Jenny: Port man teau. Port man teau.
Kristin: Either way, we love the–
Jenny: Anyway, we love that new word. And we love this voice memo.
Kristin: Yes, let’s listen to, um–
Jenny: Angiles.
Kristin: Angiles. [Voice memo] My favorite scene so far has to be when Angel and Buffy first kiss. And then Angel’s face changes and reveals that he’s a vampire. The first time I watched it, I was seeing it from Buffy’s perspective and experiencing her shock when this beautiful, intimate moment is suddenly shattered and she sees that this person who she has trusted and opened up to is what she assumes to be a vicious killer. Re-watching the episode after having watched all of Buffy and Angel , I saw it through Angel’s eyes instead. And I realized how scared he must be in this scene. He has all these feelings for Buffy but has tried not to act on them, thinking that he could never be with her. And knowing that if she ever found out what he was, she would hate him and be disgusted by him. All of these fears come true as his face changes and she screams in horror. This scene really spoke to me because my sexuality has always been mixed up with complicated and scary feelings about BDSM and gender identity. For a long time, I was afraid of being intimate with partners because I thought that they’d be horrified or disgusted if they saw who I really was.
Jenny: Angiles, you are so articulate.
Kristin: So articulate and like, what– I mean, this is kind of what we were touching on, and we have touched on many times. But like, what we were touching on a little bit before with X-Men and you know, how that was our gateway in. And the things that these characters let us know about each other and ourselves, you know? That like, we can see ourselves reflected in, I think, the most important ways. And holy shit. There’s so much shame around this, right? There’s so much shame around gender identity when it doesn’t line up with what the world says that it’s supposed to line up with. There’s so much shame around, you know, sex that is not vanilla.
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: For many of us. You know, I think maybe there’s some of us that escape that net of shame. But I do think that the majority of us are told, you know, this is right and this is wrong, this is good and this is bad. And so, Angiles here, I think this is– I just think it’s so powerful.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Like, seeing yourself reflected in a character in a way that lets you feel seen. And also, like, makes you dig deeper. Right?
Jenny: Yeah. Speaking of digging deeper.
Kristin: [laughs] So, we’re recording in a different location than usual. We’re in Brooklyn still, recording this, and so we’re just recording it– you’ll probably notice an audio difference as well because we’re just recording it, um, on either an iPhone or a Zoom, we’ll see which one comes out better. But we are also in an apartment with a wonderful cat named Vega.
Jenny: But he is mouthy!
Kristin: He’s very mouthy. Can we hear a little bit from Vega?
Jenny: Yeah, let’s play back Vega from before.
NOTES: [loud cat meowing]
Kristin: [to Vega] What’s that, Vega? [cat meows] Really? [to Jenny] Great. But also, on the flipside, we’re in an apartment that is equipped with a recording studio. So Vega is now behind two panes of glass, meowing at the top of his lungs. But you can’t– we can’t hear him. [laughs] He’s very mad.
Jenny: He’s like, "I have a lot to say about being seen in fantasy and horror!"
Kristin: And it’s really funny to see a cat meow their hardest, when you can’t hear anything coming out of their tiny cat mouth.
Jenny: It’s kind of sad.
Kristin: He’ll be fine. [laughs]
Jenny: Anyway!
Kristin: Anyway, back to you, Angiles. Sorry, Jenny, were you saying something that–
Jenny: Who can tell?
Kristin: Do you have anything else you’d like to say?
Jenny: I mean, I just thought it was so great. And also, I can’t– Angiles, if you just said that without writing it down and then reading it out loud, I am floored . That was just so beautiful.
Kristin: Yeah. It’s really beautiful. And thank you for sharing it with us and with all of our listeners.
Jenny: Yeah, hell yeah.
Kristin: I’m sure there’s a lot of people listening who have similar feelings about this. Or who didn’t even make the connection and just made the connection for themselves now. Which is why art is cool.
Jenny: Yes. [Kristin laughs] Well said.
Kristin: Essay by Kristin Russo, who does not know how to pronounce "portmanteau."
Jenny: I think you just did it.
Kristin: I did. Oh! Speaking of things that we are made to feel shameful of, um, you know, being a woman is one of them.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: And the reason I bring this up is to bring us to a very important piece of information, which is over the holiday, we received some gifts. Actually, I think there are more gifts that are waiting for us at home that we have not gotten to yet. The gifts that we received before we left for the holidays were incredible. And one of them, we posted online– well, actually we posted several of them online. But one of the ones that we posted online was a collection of chocolate. [Jenny groans] From a place– how do you pronounce it, Jenny?
Jenny: Lagusta’s! Lagusta’s Luscious.
Kristin: Lagusta’s, Lagusta’s Luscious in New Paltz, New York.
Jenny: Woo!
Kristin: They sent us a custom made set of chocolates. If you haven’t seen it yet, you can go on our Facebook or to our Twitter, both are just @bufferingcast. And you can see a picture of these chocolates.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: Along with those chocolates–
Jenny: Beautiful and delicious.
Kristin: Delicious. By the way, the collected set was a chocolate vampire, a chocolate aorta– I mean, a chocolate heart with–
Jenny: Anatomical heart.
Kristin: Anatomical heart. A chocolate skull... and a chocolate vulva.
Jenny: Yes, for good measure. Because of the patriarchy.
Kristin: Because of... the patriarchy, right. And so, along with these chocolates came a mug. And the mug says, "Kill Your Local Misogynist." [Jenny laughs] It’s just a white mug with black text, you can see it also on our socials. It is my favorite thing in the world. I don’t let Jenny use it. So this is from one of the chocolatiers.
Jenny: Wooo!
Kristin: Whose name is Kate. Kate has made this mug. It is for sale and it’s incredible because the mug is amazing, obviously. Kill your local misogynist. [laughter] That’s pretty great. In her initial note to us, Kate said, "The only people who didn’t like the mug were misogynists and moms." [laughter] Which I really liked. Moms are like, "But why would you say to kill somebody?" You know? [Jenny laughs] That’s my universal mom voice.
Jenny: And misogynists are like, "Um…"
Kristin: [laughs] Misogynists are like, "You don’t deserve to speak. You’re a woman." So anyhow, everyone else who will be just as delighted with this mug, I believe, as we are, um, can get one by just going to TeamKate.storeenvy.com. And what’s fucking awesome about this is that not only do you get an awesome mug, but all of the proceeds from the sale of this mug go to the Sylvia Rivera Law Project and the Southern Poverty Law Center.
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: Just, come on! You know? Just the best!
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: So I’m gonna be buying these "Kill Your Local Misogynist" mugs for everyone I know. I suggest you do the same. Thank you, Kate, for gifting us our first one.
Jenny: Oh, yes.
Kristin: Thank you, Kate and Adrienne, at Lagusta’s for that incredible chocolate.
Jenny: Seriously.
Kristin: So thought out. So incredible and totally gone, because–
Jenny: [laughs] So eaten.
Kristin: [laughs] We ate it all. Cool. Okay.
Jenny: So next we’ve got another voice memo, coming in from Anna in Green Bay, about "I, Robot... You, Jane."
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: And I mean, she really speaks well for herself, so I should just let her talk. [Voice memo] Hi, this is Anna from Green Bay, Wisconsin. My favorite moment is in Episode 8, "I, Robot... You, Jane." I love the part where Giles tries to explain the demon in the internet to Jenny Calendar, only to have her say "I know" and explain how she is a techno-pagan. Giles gets adorably flustered while Jenny gives off some awesome 90s-style hacker vibes. I was totally a teenage techno-pagan back in the late 90s, and this scene brings back so many great memories of hanging around in online Wicca message boards, my early attempts at computer programming, and even a small crush on my computer science teacher. I just wish I’d watched this show when it aired. It would have meant so much to me back then.
Kristin: Ugh!
Jenny: "I was a teenage techno-pagan!"
Kristin: [laughs] That’s– please, Anna, if you write a memoir–
Jenny: Let that be the title.
Kristin: Please let that be the title. How great is everyone?
Jenny: Everyone is so great. Everyone did such a great job with their e-mails and their voice memos.
Kristin: And their favorite moments from season 1, and their techno-paganry.
Jenny: Being a teenage techno-pagan! So good!
Kristin: [laughing] Were you big on, like, message boards and stuff?
Jenny: I was very active in the alternative music chat room, I don’t know what, like I don’t know if it was under an umbrella.
Kristin: What was your username?
Jenny: I think my username was JennX, like J-e-n-n-X.
Kristin: Wow!
Jenny: Yeah…
Kristin: That’s so good!
Jenny: Thank you… thanks for your support.
Kristin: Jenn. X.
Jenny: Like, the last person I told this to was like, ‘that’s the worst thing I’ve ever heard.’
Kristin: Who was that person?
Jenny: Ooh, I think it was Matt Mira.
Kristin: Nice, Matt Mira. [laughs] It’s the best thing I’ve ever heard, so.
Jenny: Well, that’s the only way you guys are different.
Kristin: If we ever get Matt on our show...
Jenny: We’ll have to grill him about it.
Kristin: We’ll argue, Matt and I will have a head-to-head.
Jenny: Oh, but then he said what his first username was and, it was really good, but I can’t remember what it was.
Kristin: Well. In a future episode to come. We’ll have to remember to ask Matt those questions. Um, so yeah and I- my first user name was very
boring. It doesn’t have anyJenny: Was it like, "Kristin"?
Kristin: It was Kris3918, because my best friends had gone away to college, and the last four digits of my best friend’s SUNY Oswego phone number was 3918, [interrupts herself] and like, to give me a little credit, in the 1990s when you were creating a username, you didn’t realize that you would have it forever. You know what I mean? That Kris3918 would become my moniker. Moniker?
Jenny: Sure.
Kristin: For nearly a lifetime, so I was just like "Kris, and these numbers I call all the time, 3918!" I don’t know.
Jenny: Yeah, wow.
Kristin: But I wasn’t very active. I mean, I would go on AOL chat rooms, but I didn’t have like, you know, pages and stuff until Myspace came along.
Jenny: Mmm!
Kristin: Um, but I was still very confused about Myspace. Whatever that guy’s name was that was everybody’s friend?
Jenny: Tom?
Kristin: Tom.
Jenny: [slightly mocking] "Everybody’s friend."
Kristin: Well I didn’t know! See and I don’t even remember who told me to go on it, but I went on it and I was like "You see? I’ve been on this thing for one second and I already have some weirdo that I don’t know who’s...
Jenny: Oh my god, you didn’t realize that he was Myspace? -
Kristin: ...friended me. No, no! I didn’t know.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: Anyway. But I did get heavy into illegal music down- well, legal , but illegal, music downloads.
Jenny: [pauses] Legal but illegal?
Kristin: I mean, I think that Napster was probably always kind of illegal but it wasn’t like, there were no regulations on it when Napster first came on the scene. Like, as a kid, you must have gone through this too, I didn’t know
that what I was doing was wrong, I was just likeJenny: I never downloaded music illegally.
Kristin: Really?
Jenny: I have never. To this day.
Kristin: Because you’re a musician and you were aware from the start?
Jenny: Um, no, because I was like, why would… I was really into collecting. Albums.
Kristin: Oh, so like physical copies of stuff.
Jenny: I just wasn’t exposed, I was just more interested in getting the records and listening to them and not… I was like "why would you ever just want to have, like, a digital file of music when you could have a CD?"
Kristin: Ohh, my.
Jenny: Yeah, that’s me.
Kristin: Good old JennX strikes again. [laughs] Well, I did, I thought it was the coolest thing in the world.
Jenny: Gross. I still think it’s gross.
Kristin: Well I mean now, we have more- I think you need to take a deep fuckin’ breath...
Jenny: I’m entitled to my opinions and I’ll breathe when I want!
Kristin: But your opinion is very judgy of Kristin Russo 1998 right now.
Jenny: Noooo, no no no no no, no.
Kristin: You’re like ‘I never did that and I would never do it and I find it disgusting’ and then you spit on the floor.
Jenny: I did spit on the floor.
Kristin: I’m just saying that before I had awareness of music and the craft of music, it was just like ‘Holy shit! I can download all this stuff and I can listen to all this new stuff’ it was so awesome and I learned about so much music through it, and then it was like ‘Napster is actually illegal!’ and we were all like [skrrrrk!]
Jenny: Yeah and Metallica was like [whiny] "Where’s our money? Waaah!" I mean...
Kristin: Wow. So much judgement from all angles coming from JennX over in the corner.
Jenny: I gotta be me.
Kristin: Well, thank you Anna, thank you for your wonderful voicemail. We actually, speaking of e-mails that have a lot of fantastic information in them relatedly to this "I Robot, You Jane" episode...
Jenny: Oh my god, this is a really...
Kristin: Do you want to set this, set this up? Set the stage for why this e-mail got sent to us?
Jenny: So, you may recall in the cold open of "I Robot, You Jane", we see Thelonius Monk- we see a monk named Thelonius, speaking Italian and we also see Moloch speaking Italian and we see his acolyte speaking Italian, and we were talking about ‘Is this really Italian, is this time-era appropriate Italian, or like what’s the deal?’ So we got this incredibly informative and exhaustively detailed e-mail from McKayla... that is just really something.
Kristin: Yeah. I mean, I’m gonna read a little chunk of it, I think. But the full- where I’m gonna stop, it stops right before we get a line-by-line translation and conversation about that translation. It’s incredible. It’s a miracle. So, we’re gonna put this up on our facebook page today, which is just facebook.com/bufferingcast with the full translation because it is really special.
Jenny: Oh my god, it’s so good.
Kristin: But let me give you just a little bit.
Jenny: Just a taste.
Kristin: From McKayla here. Okay, so McKayla says "...as an Italian major at university I thought I’d tell you guys my useless rant about the Italian used in this scene since no one else in my life is going to give a shit. First off, in 1418, no one would be speaking modern Italian. Modern Italian wasn’t even a concept until much, much more recently, and even today, not everyone in Italy speaks the same Italian. What Moloch and the others in that scene were using was modern Northern Italian, and even then they weren’t always using it right. If this show were being historically accurate, they would more than likely have been using the volgare, the common, latinate language used by the common and merchant classes at the time. It would have also had strong regional influences, as the city of Cortona is in Tuscany. Also, for anything religious, they probably still would have been using Latin.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: [continues reading] "Secondly, when the minion whose neck is broken is speaking to Moloch, he is using the tu form. Anyone who has studied Romance language knows that there are two ways of addressing people, formally and informally. This minion absolutely would not have been addressing someone he reveres so informally as to use the tu ; he would have used the Lei , which would have been the formal form at the time. Moloch may have used the informal when speaking back, but the minion absolutely should not have been using it. That would be extremely disrespectful, and from the scene, he did not seem to want to cause disrespect."
Jenny: Mm-hmm!! This is amazing.
Kristin: It’s amaz- so, McKayla, thank you, and for those of you who are as super fucking into this as we are, McKayla goes on to do a line-by-line, you know…
Jenny and Kristin: dissection!
Kristin: of Moloch’s words and the minions’ words and like, just, oh, it’s just great. So, go over to our facebook page today. It’ll be one of the most recent posts if not the most recent post, will have this full analysis from McKayla!
Jenny: God, it’s so amazing.
Kristin: Ah! [reading] "Disclaimer: I am but a humble fourth-semester Italian student" Like, you’re doing great, McKayla.
Jenny: Much better than anybody in this room, for sure. Holy smokes.
Kristin: Oh, yes. Thank you, thank you, thank you.
Jenny: Thank you McKayla! So next we have the shortest e-mail ever, from Jeff.
Kristin: Yes, we went from the longest e-mail to the shortest e-mail.
Jenny: Indeed. Sharp relief. And, Jeff says: "I literally just thought of this and decided to send it your way. Buffy’s high school is the same one they used for Beverly Hills, 90210 . No idea if you guys knew that or not." Thank you, Jeff!
Kristin: Thank you, Jeff!
Jenny: That’s Torrance High School, right?
Kristin: Yes, it is Torrance High School in California. A place where Jenny and I will... indubitably be. [quietly] What does indubitably mean?
Jenny: Uh, I think that’s- I think you’re using it the way you mean to use it. I think!
Kristin: My brain is so weird, you guys. Like, it has words in it that it’ll just throw out, it’s like ‘I think this goes here.’ But if you said ‘What does indubitably mean?’, I’m like ‘No idea.’ I just think contextually it would fit in that sentence.
Jenny: Yeah, I think it means like ‘def.’
Kristin: Undoubtedly? Is how I have it.
Jenny: That’s… yeah, that seems right. Let’s not look it up. Let’s just let this lie.
Kristin: Yeah, it’s just Kristin’s- in a new segment called Kristin Makes Up Definitions To Words. Um cool, so yeah we will for sure be going to Torrance High School at some point to do something fun.
Jenny: And there will be photographic evidence.
Kristin: Also, if for any reason you are listening to this podcast and you went to Torrance High School, back in the heyday…
Jenny: Please e-mail us!
Kristin: … please e-mail us at bufferingthevampireslayer at gmail dot com because we would love to talk to you about your experiences at Torrance High School.
Jenny: Please!
Kristin: Home of Brenda and Brandon. Angel and Buffy.
Jenny: I don’t know if Angel ever… well I guess he hangs out at the library.
Kristin: Well, he hangs out. Yeah, he’s there.
Jenny: Perfect. Perfect!
Kristin: Anyway, thank you Jeff for this, I’m sure many of you knew this already, but I did not know this and so I’m sure that the Kristins of the
world, who are looking up ‘indubitably’, [ Jenny: Ha ha!] did not know this either so y’all just learned a little somethin’. We have an email from Kenneth, who says- now this is sent to us, to give you some context, the
morning of November 9th. Um, that was actuallyJenny: 2016.
Kristin: Yes! That’s right, it’s true. When this sound file is in space.
Jenny: Yeah! In the voidKristin: They’ll all be like ‘If only they had let us know!’ Okay, so I just got so distracted thinking about them saying, like, hearing us call them out on being excited about the year and then laughing at us. [Jenny laughs] So, it’s fine! Kenneth e-mails us the morning after the 2016 election. And the morning of our "I Robot, You Jane" episode where we put a little pre-roll in.
Jenny: [solemnly] Yeah, we just put a little message up front, because we felt very… sad? And very scared, and we felt like a lot of you might be feeling that way, and we wanted to share something with you that might feel a little hopeful. So we shared a quote from a later episode of Buffy , and that’s what we did.
Kristin: Right. Yeah, and so then Kenneth wrote in and said that "waking up this morning was unreal... I got one hour and thirteen minutes of peace today while I was listening to today’s episode of Buffering , thank you for giving me something funny and positive. Thank you for giving me something awesome about something I love. I’m so thankful for your podcast, the work that you do with the LGBT community, and that you are strong, proud women. I hope, if I have a daughter, she has the same strength and pride." And this last bit is why I wanna read this e-mail the
most: "I’m going to use this as inspiration and go to my local city council meeting tonight. Hopefully I can start the changes I want to see in the world. All the best, Kenneth."
Jenny: Oh, no!
Kristin: Jenny, are you crying?!
Jenny: Not quite!
Kristin: Is it ‘cause I did such a good reading of something you had already read, that it hit you in a whole new way?
Jenny : Yes.
Kristin: This is just like, everything. Right? You know, where this show exists and it forms this space where we all get to say ‘We like this thing, let’s get together and sit in this space together and talk about this thing together and love this thing together’ and then bad shit happens and we’re in this space together and we get to kind of like turn over shit in our hands and say ‘Well I can use this piece from this space to help me or I can use this piece’ or ‘Listen to what that person is doing with this space that helps me navigate this thing’ and I don’t- I could not dream up a more powerful end result, not that it’s the end, but you know what I mean. In this arc, than you standing up and saying ‘I need to do more, I’m gonna go to this local government meeting and participate.’ Because that is, that’s everything. And so often I think, not to get all politicky, but I think so often in politics we think about the biggest votes, like ‘I’m gonna vote for the president, I’m gonna vote for the vice-president, I’m gonna vote for senators’. Those are all important votes, certainly, but a lot of us neglect to participate at the local level, and what we set down at the local level often is the current that pushes the larger stream. So, all the thanks to you, Kenneth, for participating, and all the love to the rest of you out there who are searching out ways to get involved. This is a great way to get involved, with your local government. Super powerful stuff. I also think that there’s a ton of ways that you can give back right now, whether it is going to that local city council meeting, volunteering, or like, creating a piece of music that you share with the world. You know, there’s so many different avenues.
Jenny: Oh! I can do that one.
Kristin: You can do that one?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Okay! So let’s go to another recording now, from Scott, in Philadelphia, who has some stuff to say about... Cordelia! You know you’re gonna get played on this show when you got Cordelia commentary.
Jenny: Mm-HM! [Voice memo] Hi, this is Scott, from Philadelphia. I happened upon Buffy as the show began, so all of my first impressions were my own, and I remember loving the show for its cleverness and its wit, but I do recall when I first saw the "Nightmares" episode, really being hit by Cordelia’s speech. When she talked about being alone even when she was surrounded by people, it reminded me how deep the show could be and how it was always going to flip expectations and show you a different side. Cordelia wasn’t just the "Queen Bitch", she was a person and she had depth and a point of view, and that’s why I loved that moment and it remains my favorite moment from Season 1.
Jenny: Yeeeessss!
Kristin: Yes! Yes, Scott from Philly!
Jenny: Whooo, you are right on.
Kristin: You got it! You got it, you really got it.
Jenny: Nailed it. Nail, meet hammer.
Kristin: And you know who else really got it? Cordelia.
Jenny: Uh, accurate.
Kristin: Yes, totally agree. Totally why I love Cordelia, totally why I love Joss Whedon.
Jenny: Love to see this vulnerability shining through the cracks…
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: … In her carefully constructed facade.
Kristin: Because it exists in all- I mean, nobody’s just…
Jenny: One thing.
Kristin: Right. Nobody’s just one thing. Certainly none of the characters in Buffy the Vampire Slayer .
Jenny: Are just one thing.
Kristin: Right. I was gonna say ‘Except for maybe The Master’ but like, you know what, damn it, even The Master is certainly not just one thing.
Jenny: He’s evil but he’s also kind of a like tap-dancer. [Kristin laughs] You know, da-da-da, da-da-da, psh!
Kristin: Right. Yes, so thank you so much for that.
Jenny: Okay so next we have my favorite e-mail of all-time.
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: Is that too much? Can I read this?
Kristin : Yeah.
Jenny: This e-mail comes from Herkie, the subject is "Daddy Long Legs!" (Exclamation point). And Herkie says "Hey, friends. Knowing how nerds are on the internet, I figure you’ve already received possibly hundreds of notes regarding this, since I’m a little late on listening. But just in case you haven’t, I thought this was something worth pointing out. In "Nightmares," you discuss spiders and how one should never be okay with one crawling on you except for possibly daddy long legs." First of all, I feel confident that I never said that was okay. [Kristin laughs] "Once the conversation started focusing on them, I immediately thought ‘Please don’t say they are the most poisonous spider. Please don’t say they are the most poisonous spider.’ And then, Jenny , it happened." Me?
Kristin: You.
Jenny: [reading] "It’s okay! It’s not your fault! This is a widely-spread myth that somehow has reached so many over the years that most just accept it as fact. However, this is very far from the truth. Daddy long legs are harmless. Not because they don’t have fangs that can pierce your skin but because they don’t have fangs, or venom, at all. In fact, they’re not even in the same species as regular spiders which is why they don’t have eight eyes and they have just a single body rather than a separated abdomen and cephalothorax, like spiders generally do." Of course. "Much like scorpions or mites, they’re arachnids but not spiders." Then a link to an in-depth rundown - but I feel like this was already an in-depth rundown? "Sorry for science nerding-out on you all, though I’m sure Jenny can appreciate some good science nerding-out every once in awhile. Stay groovy. Herkie." Thank you, Herkie, for the greatest e-mail of all-time!
Kristin: Okay! So, rounding the bend here to our last voice memo…
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: I know, I know, it’s gone so quickly.
Jenny: It went so by so fast.
Kristin: It did! We got a recording from Vanessa, who actually is also from Philly. Two-
Jenny: Yeah what’s up with Philly? Y’all holdin’ it down. Should we go to Philly?
Kristin: Yeah, two Philadelphia entries, maybe we should go to Philly?
Jenny: Alright.
Kristin: [quietly] Everybody in Philly just got very excited. Future plans, TK. TK. Okay, so Vanessa from Philly talks about "Prophecy Girl" so let’s just shut up and listen to Vanessa, shall we? [Jenny laughs] [Voice memo] Hello, my name is Vanessa, I’m calling in from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and my thoughts on the first season of Buffy... Not really a fan of it, it’s always a little hard for me to get through, but it’s totally worth it when I get to "Prophecy Girl". ‘Cause one of my favorite moments in the entire series is when Buffy’s having her confrontation with Giles and Angel, and she has her line "I’m sixteen. I don’t want to die." I find it’s the first moment in the series so far that has this real, emotional weight and this rawness, and that’s a big reason why I love Buffy so much and I keep on coming back and rewatching it. And it’s also the first time you get to see Sarah Michelle Gellar really act and you get to see her do what she does best. And that is rip your heart out and it’s only the beginning, but… thank you Kristin, thank you Jenny for an awesome podcast and I can’t wait for Season 2."
Kristin: You know why I love this? And like, obviously we chose to round the bend to the ending with this one ‘cause it is from "Prophecy Girl" but it’s also, I think, pretty great because of how, Vanessa, you talk about, [laughs] I think you don’t even really like Season 1, ‘cause I think a lot of people feel
like thatJenny: Yeah, way I feel about it.
Kristin: Right, I mean I.. turns out...
Jenny: It’s fine. It’s great.
Kristin: I’m into it, but also my relationship to it is so different, I think, than most people’s. But I think that everybody understands what you’re saying here, and I had that moment watching "Prophecy Girl" where I was all of a
sudden like: [gasps] I remember.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: I forgot, and I remember now what this series can do and what Buffy can do and what my emotions will soon do. I just want to stop for one second and give everybody a cat update. The cat is now standing on
two back legs, tapping his paws on the glass, becauseJenny: "Pardon me, you seem to have forgotten…"
Kristin: He’s concerned. We’ll try to get a picture of Vega for you so you can see Vega. Anyhow! I really so identify with everything that you’re saying, Vanessa, and ohmygosh, because the next episode we will be talking about is our entry point into Season 2, where I think we start to get more, many more moments like this one that are so real, and so gutting. I’m so excited.
Jenny : Yeah, oh my god. It’s really… just like, the door has been cracked.
Kristin: Is there a thing, Jenny, about Season 2, that is not a spoiler but
perhaps a character or whatever that you’re most excitedJenny: There are just so many peaks and valleys. It is a big, sexy roller coaster and it’s gonna fuck you up if you haven’t seen it before!
Kristin: Ahh, if you haven’t seen it before, holy shit, buckle up! Buckle up!
Jenny: Please buckle up, for safety.
Kristin: Yes, for safety. Um, great!
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: Well, I think we did it.
Jenny: We really did.
Kristin: Thank you to all of you who sent an e-mail, thank you to all of you who sent in voice memos.
Jenny: Thank you so much.
Kristin: If you want to e-mail us at any point you can always do that at bufferingthevampireslayer at gmail dot com. We want you to know that we do our best to read all of the e-mails, we don’t always get to all of them but we see them all and we respond to as many as we can.
Jenny: Mm-hm!
Kristin: We definitely appreciate them. So, keep ‘em coming.
Jenny: Oh my god, yes. Thank you! You can also find us on twitter at @bufferingcast or on facebook at facebook.com/bufferingcast.
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: Wow. Thank you so much for listening- [ Kristin: yeah!] to this
mailbag episode. [ Kristin: Thank you.] Very special mailbag and celebration of Season 1 episode. You are delightful, we are so happy to be
back, and we cannot wait for next week when we returnKristin : Ahhh! Season 2!
Jenny: With the Season 2 debut episode...
Kristin: Oh my god.
Jenny: I believe the episode is called "When She Was Bad".
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah I think you’re right.
Jenny: We can’t wait to find out what happened… when she was bad.
Kristin: [laughing] Just a reminder, if you wanna check out our Union Hall show, you can do that over on patreon.com/bufferingcast.
Jenny: You can also find our Season 1 Album, "Buffering the Vampire
Slayer: Songs from Season 1," all over your favorite digital platforms: iTunes, Spotify, wherever. Aaand, you can also order a CD while theywhile supplies last.
Kristin: Oh my gosh.
Jenny: Over at bufferingthevampireslayer.com
Kristin: Yeah! And if you’re in the Los Angeles area, come out on February 2nd and see our show at the NerdMelt Showroom, you can find out all about that at NerdMeltLA.com
Jenny: I’m Jenny Owen Youngs and it has been my pleasure to serve you and I- I imagine it will continue to be my pleasure to continue to serve you, what a delight. You can learn more about me at jennyowenyoungs.com/buffering. And you can find me on twitter at @jennyowenyoungs.
Kristin : And I am Kristin RussoJenny: Yes, you are!
Kristin: And despite all that you hear, I am still married to this wonderful human being…
Jenny: Hooooow daaaaare you, sir!
Kristin: Oh, just kidding, you’re great. But you can find more about me over at my twitter, which is kristinnoeline, k-r-i-s-t-i-n n-o-e-l-i-n-e. Hope ya got that. If you didn’t, it’s an audio file, you can go back and listen to it again.
Jenny: Great point.
Kristin: You can also find out about my work with LGBTQ young people and their families over at everyoneisgay.com or mykidisgay.com, and, um, yeah. Oh my god! Jenny!
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: It’s time for Season 2.
Jenny: [gasps, exhales] : Deep breaths! Head between the knees.
Kristin: Deep breaths. Spike Spike Spike Spike Spike Spike.
Jenny: ‘Til next time…
Both: Awoooooooo!
Kristin: [whispering] And Drusilla!
NOTES: [GONG SOUND]
Jenny: [singing] Fruit punch mouth! Fruit punch mouth! Fruit punch mouth! You’ve got fruit punch mouth!