Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 2.21: Becoming (Part 1)
Jenny: Today’s episode is brought to you by Bold Food Tours. Bold Food Tours are small-group food adventure tours that introduce you to the thriving food scenes of Lima, Peru; Southeast Asia; Barcelona; Austin, Texas; and more.
Kristin: Yeah, everything that they have to offer is so, so cool. If you have been looking for a fun trip to go on, we sincerely suggest that you check this out. It seems like a really incredible opportunity and not to mention, we’re pretty impressed with how Bold Food supports queer creators. Kind of like… great food, great politics, just like a win-win. Right, Jenny?
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: If you want to learn more about bold food or Bold Food Tours go on over to boldfoodco.com
NOTES: [END AD]
Jenny: Hey everybody, before we get into today’s thrilling episode, Kristin and I have some stuff to tell you about. First of all, today is June 28th, and tonight I’m playing in Anaheim.
Kristin: Woo!
Jenny: Tomorrow I’m playing in San Francisco.
Kristin: See you there.
Jenny: Day after that, I’m playing in Portland.
Kristin: See you there, too.
Jenny: And the day after that, I’m playing in Seattle.
Kristin: Also see you there.
Jenny: So if you’re in any of those cities, come on out and say hey. You can find all the information on my website at jennyowenyoungs.com/tour
Kristin: While Jenny plays music I will be signing any Buffy D  VDs that have been brought to the show.
Jenny: [laughs] How dare you.
Kristin: [laughs] Some other important news– we have a lot of news ‘cause we’re wrapping up the– we’re getting towards the end of the season here.
Jenny: Ahhh!
Kristin: One of the things we want to tell you is that on July 30th, we will be doing a Buffy w  atch for all of our patrons. So if you don’t know, a great way to support us is over on Patreon. The link is on our website bufferingthevampireslayer.com, just click on Patreon. All of our patrons, any level of giving, are always invited to our Buffy w  atches and on July 30th, we are doing a poll. The poll is live right now, right now "Band Candy" is winning. The choices are "Becoming 2," "Anne," "Faith, Hope and Trick" or "Band Candy."
Jenny: Sophie’s Choice!
Kristin: If you would like to join us on that Buffy watch or participate in the voting or both, go on over to our website, click on Patreon and you can become one of our supporters and join us for that very, very fun time. And you’ll notice that we’ve set a new goal on Patreon. You’ve all been so supportive of our work and as we go into Season 3, we have some new improvements that we want to make to our setup here and get things just even better than they already are and also keep ourselves sustained. So you can check out that and all the other fun things over in the land of Patreon.
Jenny: Also, as we are nearly at the end of Season 2, we have CDs of "Songs from Season 2" up for pre-order on our website along with "Songs from Season 1," which we’ll be doing a limited run of again and also some new shirts.
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: An amazing "awwwoooo" shirt that Isabella Rothman designed for us, a fantastic "even a werewolf is better than misogyny" shirt that Cameron Glavin illustrated for us and we’ve got a "Just Keep Fighting" shirt in a new color that is beautiful.
Kristin: Yes! It’s all so beautiful. I just– I go to the store sometimes and I just look at it. [Jenny laughs] It’s just so– everything looks so good.
Jenny: Look what I have wrought. So yeah, you too can go look at our store, [Kristin laughs] get lost in it, or if you want to buy anything, it’s there for you.
Kristin: It is.
Jenny: You can just go to bufferingthevampireslayer.com and click on shop. And with that, sweet heavens.
Kristin: Sweet heavens indeed.
Jenny: Let’s get into it.
Kristin: Let’s.
NOTES: [THEME MUSIC]
Jenny: Why, hello and welcome to yet another episode of Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast where we’re watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer one by one, weeping when necessary. I am Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: And I am Kristin Russo and this week we are talking about Season 2, Episode 21, "Becoming Part 1." Stay tuned at the end of this podcast every week for an original song written by us recapping the Buffy e  pisode we are discussing.
Jenny: Except for this week.
Kristin: Yes. So this week, this is a two parter, "Becoming 1" and "Becoming 2." It’s the finale. [singing] Welcome to the finale.
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: Do you like my song?
Jenny: It’s a very good song.
Kristin: This is the finale of Season 2, and typically in the past, we have done two-parters by doing half the song on the first part and the second half on the second part. We talked a long time about this though, and we really feel that these two need to be one song. Like, the song has to come at the end of the finale so we will not have a song after "Becoming 1." We will have
the full "Becoming" song after the finale. A note on the finale: today is Wednesday, June 28th. For all of our listeners, "Becoming Part 2" will come out as you would expect on Wednesday July 5th. That’ll be the finale episode, it’ll have the full song. However, if you are a Stitcher premium member, you have the finale right now. We released both parts for our Stitcher premium subscribers together on June 28th, so that’s very exciting. If you want to listen to both parts together, you can. You can just go to stitcherpremium.com/buffy. There’s a code there for you to use, you get a free month. You can– if you want, just listen to it then you can leave. Or you can stay ‘cause it’s pretty great, because there’s lots of exclusives and we’re gonna be doing more over there. However, we should really talk about this episode, don’t you think?
Jenny: I could tell you something about this episode. "Becoming Part 1" was written and directed by Joss Whedon and originally aired on May 12th, 1998.
Kristin: Yes. Yes, and this is the one where Angel plots to revive an ancient demon bent on sweeping everything on Earth into hell itself.
Jenny: This is the one where Kendra dies, we meet Whistler and see a lot of Angel origin flashbacks.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: It’s also the one where Spike is hilarious.
Kristin: [laughs]
Jenny: [sighs] It’s a great episode!
Kristin: I’m confused about the IMDB description because it says "bent on pulling the world into hell itself." But they didn’t– is that what it is? Hell? ‘Cause I just thought it was like, another demon dimension.
Jenny: Well, I don’t think there’d be too much of a meaningful distinction between what we think about as hell and a demon dimension.
Kristin: Right, okay. It’s just like– I guess I–
Jenny: It’s a functional hell for non-demon entities.
Kristin: Okay, fine, fine. Hell, the general hell, but not the specific hell, perhaps. [Jenny laughs] You know what I’m saying? [laughs] Um, we–
Jenny: Just hell, isn’t that enough?
Kristin: Yes, it is, it is. So in– what do you call it?
Jenny: The "previously on"?
Kristin: Yeah. In the "previously on" segment of this episode, we get the slow-mo disk drop in between the desk.
Jenny: [groans] Wow.
Kristin: Which I just want to say, I don’t know that we’ve seen anything else more [Jenny laughs] than this disk, this floppy disk slowly–
Jenny: Listen–
Kristin: Why do you think– I mean, I know it’s an important moment, but like, I don’t know that we needed it to be in slow motion is all I’m saying. Like, I still would have–
Jenny: Kristin, I think you’re asking the wrong questions. I think the
question you might wanna ask yourself is: when else, other than but now, in this universe, in these– this cluster of episodes, when will I get to see a floppy disk repeatedly fall in slow motion between a desk and a filing cabinet. When?!
Kristin: You’re right, and the answer is here and now.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: We gotta see it. And it is, of course, it’s a very important little thing to show before we go into this episode, because it really is the thing that sets the chain of events into motion. We will get there! But first.
Jenny: But first, can I give you my notes for the cold open?
Kristin: Yes please.
Jenny: My– sorry, my– obviously the cold open is broken into two sections, the Galway flashback, and then Buffy in the cemetery. My notes for the
Galway section are: "Galway! Sideburns! Darla! David’s accent! And ponytail! Boobs!"
Kristin: [laughs] I mean, I don’t really have anything–
Jenny: Yeah, do we have to discuss anything there?
Kristin: I don’t think I– I mean, I did have "Angel’s ponytail" listed in the– in my notes. And also that they– that of course, they’re hanging out in the back alleys of Ireland, right?
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: That like– that no matter where we are–
Jenny: Where you are, you’re always gonna be in an alley on this show.
Kristin: I just have this theory that the back alleys in Galway connect to the back alleys in Sunnydale. Right?
Jenny: Probably. It’s like, a left, a left, a right and a left.
Kristin: You know when you played Clue– when you play the game Clue, and like, you can go the paces you need to go from the dining room to the living room, or you can take the secret passageway to get to the–
Jenny: Right. There’s a secret passageway between Galway and Sunnydale. Of course, of course.
Kristin: Yeah, a hundred percent. It’s very Golden Compass in that sense. I think you can just pop from alley to alley.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: But yeah, that’s a good– and I mean, I know your last note was "boobs" and you did make a good joke of it. I just want everyone to know how serious that note is. Jenny, like– I feel like you basically stood up on the couch when this scene happened, where Darla cuts her skin directly above her boobs so that Angel can drink from it.
Jenny: I don’t know what you’re talking about.
Kristin: I don’t know–
Jenny: Didn’t happen.
Kristin: I think it might be your favorite thing, ever. [Jenny starts protesting] Like, favorite-favorite of all. Like if you had a favorite food, a favorite this, a favorite that, and then all those favorites came up against each other to win one major favorite–
Jenny: I don’t know about that.
Kristin: [laughs] I think this might win it.
Jenny: But what I will say is that thinking backwards and forwards, of all the episodes of Buffy the Vampire Slayer , of every scene I can recall of someone being made vampire, this is my favorite method used.
Kristin: Okay, yes. Yeah.
Jenny: Great. Job.
Kristin: It is– oh, I did have another note about Darla.
Jenny: Darla looks amazing .
Kristin: Darla– my note is, "Darla has a perfect face."
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: It’s like, perfectly– I don’t– it’s like, perfectly proportioned. I don’t– it’s just really nice to look at. I like to look at a Darla face.
Jenny: Julie Benz, totally crushing it.
Kristin: More like Julie Babes, am I right?
Jenny: You are right or– well. Not the other thing that I was gonna just say. [Kristin laughs] ‘Cause maybe one day she’ll come on the show. So I shouldn’t call her... that.
Kristin: Wow! [laughs]
Jenny: I was just following a natural train of thought. Also, I feel like we should edit that out.
Kristin: I don’t even know what you were gonna say.
Jenny: Julie Boobs.
Kristin: [scoffs] We have to edit that out because you were going to say ‘Julie Boobs’?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: [laughs] Never editing it out, staying.
Jenny: So I just want to say I feel like we’ve seen so little of Darla in this show cumulatively but she always leaves such a strong impression. I think she looks amazing in this scene, and seeing her framed in that archway, you can totally see–
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: It just makes a lot of sense.
Kristin: Well that’s funny because my thinking was like "Wow, is this how you flirted in the 1800s?"
Jenny: [laughs] Stand under a well lit arch?
Kristin: And then don’t say anything, just turn around and walk away. [Jenny laughs] And if it’s the right man, he shall follow.
Jenny: Yikes.
Kristin: So then we go to the graveyard. Cemetery? I’ll never remember which it is.
Jenny: Cemetery, it’s a cemetery.
Kristin: Okay, we go to the cemetery and we learn that five vampires in three nights is a high ratio of vampires. Which I feel is important because I never understand like–
Jenny: There’s really no– I don’t think we have a universally accepted normal rate of vampires. I think it’s just relative to the episode and whatever they’re trying to accomplish.
Kristin: Okay, sure, sure, sure. But we’ve seen five vampires in three nights and we’re led to believe that is a lot.
Jenny: Uh huh.
Kristin: None of them have been Angel. Buffy is frustrated.
Jenny: None of them have stayed along– alive along enough to deliver a message.
Kristin: [amused] Right, we learn that vampires are horrible carrier pigeons.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Just the worst. Although actually that’s not true because later in the episode–
Jenny: There is the immolation-o-gram [Kristin laughs] which is highly effective unfortunately.
Kristin: Yes, which is great.
Jenny: So Angel is watching Buffy from behind the leaves of a tree.
Kristin: If you can, just go back and look at the peer because it’s a really dramatic peer. It’s just like I feel like they burst out laughing after he peered through the bushes.
Jenny: Right?
Kristin: ‘Cause it’s just so dramatic.
Jenny: Lot of intense looks.
Kristin: And then he– you know, whatever. Buffy kills the vamps. Xander’s like "Blah". Whatever. There’s the thing. But then Angel has this soliloquy to the camera…
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: Where he’s like "Yes, my love, it will."
Jenny: Right. Buffy’s like, "Finals" and Xander’s like, "Ugh, finals. I forgot." And Buffy’s like, "It’ll all be over soon." And then Angel’s like [Kristin laughs] straight into the camera "[gruffly] Yes, my love. It will."
Kristin: Yeah. And also wearing no eyeliner, Jenny.
Jenny: No eyeliner but extra powder.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Extra pale.
Kristin: I’m just saying your graph may need an update.
Jenny: Right right. [laughs] Update the graph.
Kristin: Deep plunge for episode 21.
Jenny: I’m sure he was in a rush or maybe Sephora was out of bat black.
Kristin: Gosh, if any of you missed the graph that Jenny did, we put it up on our social accounts. We’re going to put it up on Patreon so you can find it over there. Just go over to bufferingthevampireslayer.com and click on ‘Patreon’. You don’t have to be a patron, it’ll be a publically [Jenny laughs]– It’s just really special. You did a great job.
Jenny: Oh thank you very much.
Kristin: You’re very welcome. So then we go to the credits.
Jenny: And when we come back from the credits, here we are at Sunnydale’s archeology hut.
Kristin: Yeah where– [laughs] Where are we? Who is this guy? Why is–
Jenny: They refer to him as the curator, so maybe we’re at the natural history museum–
Kristin: A museum.
Jenny: Where Inca Mummy Girl came from.
Kristin: Where Inca Mummy Girl was.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Okay fine, but then how is Giles billed as the best authority on obscure relics?
Jenny: Well…
Kristin: Because when we talked about it, we watched it the first time and I had that question and you were like "Maybe it was a Watcher thing. Like maybe it has something to do with being a Watcher." But it’s not made apparent that this guy has anything to do with Watchers. It seems like he’s just a museum dude.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: But maybe Watchers are in museums?
Jenny: There’s probably a venn diagram of obscure relic experts and people in the Watcher’s Council.
Kristin: Right. Probably some overlap.
Jenny: Probably just a circle.
Kristin: Right. So Giles is like "Oh, this is a big rock. It has some writing on it. It opens but don’t open it. I want to translate the text."
Jenny: Love the curator. I love him.
Kristin: I do too, he’s another dude from New York.
Jenny: Oh my god, Archibald the Coyote!
Kristin: Oh my god, seriously?
Jenny: [sounding far away] Yes. Look at him go!
Kristin: [sounding far away] Oh my god! Take a picture, they’ll never believe us. [back at mic] Okay, so…
Jenny: [back at mic] So…
Kristin: Updates. [both laughing]
Jenny: We haven’t seen Patrol Cat in a while so–
Kristin: Well, no, we have. We have seen Patrol Cat, he has not been patrolling.
Jenny: Yeah, we have seen him elsewhere in the neighborhood.
Kristin: Running, he’s always running!
Jenny: He’s always hustling.
Kristin: He never stops anymore to look at us. It’s– He’s– Whatever, we love him. He’s Patrol Cat.
Jenny: But the new development is that there’s this coyote…
Kristin: Mmhmm. [pronouncing] \kī- ōt\ if you will.
Jenny: I will. He– Archibald.
Kristin: Jenny’s named him Archibald.
Jenny: He’s constantly trotting up and down our street. The other night we heard– if you’ve ever heard a coyote howl, you know how otherworldly and fucking scary and weird their howls sound. They’re super high.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And they just sound like they’re like ripping– They sound like they’re howling as though it were a cough after having pneumonia or something. [Kristin laughs] It’s like from their depths, a howl. A shrill howl.
Kristin: Right. And we hear this…
Jenny: So loud. They’re usually far away in the distance.
Kristin: No, this was on our couch. It might as well have been on our couch.
Jenny: Right. We pull back the curtain and it was just on our front steps howling with all its might.
Kristin: [laughing] Just alone, just alone howling.
Jenny: And it stood there for like two minutes just howling.
Kristin: So, and it’s been back. It keep coming– it’s daylight right now. It’s
6:00? It’s 6:20 pm.
Jenny: I mean coyotes are not nocturnal.
Kristin: Well, but you don’t usually see them.
Jenny: It’s, yeah, rare to see them during the day.
Kristin: We see this guy all the time, he’s just always hanging out.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And I’m just saying–
Jenny: The last week he’s been…
Kristin: I think he might want to be our pet is all I’m saying. He’s putting in his bid. Patrol Cat has submitted his bid. Archibald has now submitted a bid. Who will be our pet?
Jenny: I think there’s something that animals can sense because we’ve been talking about the concept of pets lately.
Kristin: Oh, that they’re like– there’s a beacon?
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: Beep beep. Beep beep.
Jenny: And they’re like [robotically] "Humans considering animals."
Kristin: Right. Now Jenny, we haven’t talked about Patrol Cat in a long time and now we have. And I just think I would like to hear the Patrol Cat jingle.
Jenny: Until Archibald has a jingle of his own–
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Here’s Patrol Cat.
Kristin: Yes.
NOTES: [Patrol Cat jingle plays] Here he comes down the street Across our porch on his little feet Looking around, checking the neighborhood Keeping us safe from the coyotes From the coyotes, oh yeah. Patrol Cat. Patrol Cat is real.
Jenny: Okay, so–
Kristin: Beautiful. Beautiful tune. Beautiful song we wrote about Gaby Dunn [both laugh]. Also manifests as Patrol Cat.
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: Maybe Gaby’s just changed form and is now going as a coyote.
Jenny: Archibald the Coyote? So… where the hell were we?
Kristin: We were talking about the curator. You love him.
Jenny: I love him!
Kristin: I was about to say–
Jenny: He’s from Brooklyn.
Kristin: He’s another Brooklyn guy!
Jenny: [laughs] There’s all these Brooklyn transplants in Sunnydale.
Kristin: Right? Fuckin’ Brooklynites. They love to move to Sunnydale. Right and he–
Jenny: Property taxes low. Crime low except for supernatural stuff.
Kristin: He meets his end sadly ‘cause I would have liked to hang on to this curator.
Jenny: Yeah, I was sad when he died.
Kristin: Yeah, but he gets killed by Dru. Dru– we don’t see Dru kill a lot of people.
Jenny: But this is her episode alright.
Kristin: Oh yeah. It sure is and we’ll get to the other kills she has.
Jenny: But before we do…
Kristin: Before we do.
Jenny: An important kill we should discuss is Fishstick A [Kristin laughs] slaying Fishstick B. This is one of my favorite things that Xander has done aside from appearing in a speedo.
Kristin: [laughs] Had to bring it up again. Had to stir the pot.
Jenny: I had to stir the pot. Um, I just love this little…
Kristin: It’s really great.
Jenny: Come on.
Kristin: And it’s a really creative use of a fishstick and a toothpick, you know? It’s just really nice.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And you know who else loves this? Cordelia.
Jenny: [laughs] She’s so into it.
Kristin: Cordelia is so tickled. I never thought I would see Cordelia laugh at a fishstick and yet. 
Jenny: Yeah, you see her, she’s like "Are you finished?" And you know that she meant to say it mean but she just loves it way too much.
Kristin: She’s so tickled. She’s so tickled. Speaking of tickled, there’s just a lot of flirting going on at the lunch room table in this scene.
Jenny: Lap sitting, elbow touching.
Kristin: Yes, and who would walk into this scene of public display of affection but Snyder [Jenny laughs] who obviously cannot– Snyder’s kryptonite is a public display of affection. He cannot stand it. And he has this great moment with Willow where he’s like "I didn’t know there was a chair shortage." And she’s like "[gasps] I didn’t read about a chair– ohhhhh."
NOTES: [Both laugh]
Jenny: [imitating Willow] I didn’t see any pie charts about a chair shortage.
Kristin: Right. And Snyder’s a total d-bag and tells Buffy that he just wants to expel her. Same old, same old.
Jenny: Classic Snyder.
Kristin: And then we go to another flashback but this one…
Jenny: Is in London.
Kristin: And it’s [sing-song] Drusilla. Fuck it.
Jenny: Hell yeah.
Kristin: Don’t even– shut up. Give her her jingle before I even talk about it. Give it to her.
NOTES: [Drusilla’s jingle plays] Dru-silla, you filla my heart with dread And still I’m led right back to you.
Kristin: Oh my word. If anything is better than Drusilla, it’s a goddamn Drusilla flashback. That’s what I have to say. [Jenny laughs] Drusilla in her pure form before turning in her little white veil doing confession?
Jenny: Uh huh.
Kristin: Come on.
Jenny: Wanting to be pure in his sight. I…
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Love that we see this iteration of her and also learn that she had visions before becoming a vampire.
Kristin: Yeah. Well we knew– didn’t we know? We knew that she had visions before becoming a vampire. I think we learned that in an earlier episode when we got the backstory of how Angel killed her.
Jenny: Mmmm.
Kristin: That she was already…
Jenny: Had the Sight.
Kristin: She already had the Sight. I think we knew that. But anyway, I still– I agree with you. This scene is so important for us understanding that Dru. You know, because that Dru has a lot of overlap with this Dru. Which is not true for Angel, right? Like Angel’s…
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: Angel’s– Angel’s got a really interesting trajectory. Because before he gets turned, he is sort of this drunken… Irishman who’s whatever.
Jenny: He’s kind of avoiding work.
Kristin: Right. And he sort of has that air as flashback vamp Angel. But then ensouled Angel, even immediate ensouled Angel is very different. And I don’t remember who I was talking to but someone was like ‘I think that when Angel got ensouled, it was not Angel’s original soul.’ It was a different soul.
Jenny: Right. That was Cameron Glavin.
Kristin: Ahhh. Cameron Glavin.
Jenny: Friend of the pod. [Kristin laughs] Here’s what I say to that.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: As we see over the span of this episode, Angel spends a lot of time out– living outside of humanity. Just feeling tortured, feeling terrible.
Kristin: Totally, totally. And I– and that’s what I initially attributed it to, Angel’s now personality. 100 percent. But when he turns, I guess it’s like a really traumatic moment so maybe that’s what it is. Because when he first turns, when we see the Romani curse happen, you know he’s seems like new Angel rather than old Angel. Whatever. It’s a complicated thing is all I’m saying.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: But I’d like to get back to the point which is Drusilla.
Jenny: So good.
Kristin: In the confession booth at church. And one of my favorite things that happens with a vampire is when they have to act and pretend they’re someone else. It’s just my favorite thing.
Jenny: Uh huh.
Kristin: And here we have Angel trying to pretend he’s a priest. [Jenny laughs] And trying to come up with the right words to say.
Jenny: "The Lord is very forgiving."
Kristin: [laughs] But this is great. I feel like any good salacious… scene that has to do with religion is like, you know, something sexy and bloodlust-y [Jenny laughs] happening in a confession booth or in a church or with a priest or– you know what I mean? There’s something about a scene being set in a church that has a very special something to it.
Jenny: Uh huh and you’re saying including this scene?
Kristin: Yeah. Oh, 100 percent.
Jenny: I thought you were going to say that this scene is all about just straight pure religious intention–
Kristin: Well yeah.
Jenny: Towards piety for Drusilla.
Kristin: Right, but it’s set up– It’s like the wall between Angel’s booth and Dru’s booth is separating… you know.
Jenny: Right right. Supplying Angel with his favorite lighting.
Kristin: Oh my gosh, he was like "You know what?" Yeah before they had Venetian blinds [Jenny laughs]–
Jenny: He was like "I gotta get into a confession booth stat."
Kristin: [laughs] And when he puts his stupid little vampire hand up against the grate, come on.
Jenny: "God is watching you."
Kristin: God is [sings] God is watching us. That’s what I think of every time [Jenny laughs] I hear Angel say "God is watching you". I play that song, you know? In my mind. And then we go to this beautiful, beautiful– Really, the competition for the Sexual Tension Award is fucking high in this episode.
Jenny: Tell me your thoughts.
Kristin: First of all, Angel bopping Spike in the back of the head as he walks by?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: What a flirt!
Jenny: What a second grade schoolyard move.
Kristin: Right? Spike’s all like reading the paper and Angel’s like "Hey man."
Jenny and Kristin: Bonk.
Kristin: Yeah, so… ugh. I just feel like the sexual tension between Angel and Spike is very very high in this episode. I think it’s at its peak…
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: In this episode. It may go further, I don’t know. But for now I say peak. However, fucking Kendra’s back.
Jenny: Oh my god, Kendra and Buffy–
Kristin: [high-pitched] Aaaand you can’t–
Jenny: There’s this crackling electricity between them.
Kristin: Of course there is. A Slayer and a Slayer makes for tension, Jenny. Lots of tension.
Jenny: It’s so great.
Kristin: So I don’t know, I have to think on it as we talk.
Jenny: Okay, okay. We’ll get there.
Kristin: I don’t know that I cannot give it to the two slayers but we’ll get there. We’ll get there. I love that Spike’s reading the paper. I love when Drusilla says [imitating] "Something terrible [buzzing sounds]". [Jenny and Kristin laugh] It’s my favorite. It’s not even my favorite, she does a lot of great things in this episode.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: But I think my top moment in this scene is the [laughing] headline of the article "Mysterious Obelisk." [Kristin and Jenny laugh] What?! What reporter would title the article "Mysterious Obelisk"? Who even knows what an obelisk– I don’t even know what an obelisk is. Isn’t it a shape? Isn’t it not even? What’s an obelisk?
Jenny: So I was under two impressions. One, that it was pronounced ‘ah-belisk’. But I think you might actually be right.
Kristin: Oh I have no idea how things are pronounced.
Jenny: If you know know the correct pronunciation…
Kristin: No, it’s fine.
Jenny: Don’t tell us about it.
Kristin: Po-tay-to, po-tah-to. Oh-belisk, ah-belisk. You know what I’m saying?
Jenny: I was thinking an obelisk was like the Washington Monument.
Kristin: Ohhhh.
Jenny: But is that a different shape? Hang on, hang on. According to Wikipedia, an obelisk is a tall, four-sided, narrow, tapering monument–
Kristin: Oh, interesting.
Jenny: Which ends in a pyramid-like shape or pyramidium at the top.
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: So…
Kristin: So this is pretty…
Jenny: The person who wrote this headline not only wrote this headline but also–
Kristin: Got it a little–
Jenny: Got it skewed.
Kristin: Got it a little wrong. But that’s better than what I thought it was because I definitely pictured an orb when I saw that word. You know?
Jenny: Ahhhh.
Kristin: Like an oval orb type thing.
Jenny: Mmhmm. Sure.
Kristin: Anyhow. Then we go to Sunnydale High School.
Jenny: Tutor time.
Kristin: Tutor time with Willow. They’re talking about calculus and all this other nonsense.
Jenny: Yep yep.
Kristin: Buffy’s like "Ugh, finals. It’s so hard to be a slayer." And then she drops her pencil.
Jenny: Wait, Buffy also is like "I’m stupid."
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: And Willow’s like "Hey!"
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: "That’s my friend Buffy you’re talking about."
Kristin: "Don’t talk about my friend like that."
Jenny: And gives Buffy a talking-to about how she’s smart and she just has a lot on her plate, but she’s not stupid.
Kristin: Yeah, it’s really nice.
Jenny: And then.
Kristin: And then.
Jenny: No!
Kristin: Buffy drops her pencil, it falls at full speed. Doesn’t fall in slow-motion turns out. Not everything falls to the floor in that classroom in slow motion.
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah I thought maybe there was some sort of gravity [Kristin laughs] defying protection spell just in that little slot between the desk and the filing cabinet.
Kristin: But then she has this really interesting slayer moment, I guess, because she says, "That was a huge deja vu." Right?
Jenny: Mmmm.
Kristin: So is she channelling…?
Jenny: Maybe she’s dreamed it.
Kristin: Right. It’s like she’s dreamed it or Jenny is giving her a message from the afterlife–
Jenny: Maybe.
Kristin: Or something happens in this moment that makes her want to do it again. And when she drops the pencil again, she finds this disk. And this is where we find out– I mean this is not where we find out, this is where they find out that Jenny was very close to doing this spell on Angel. Redoing this spell on Angel before she was killed by Angel.
Jenny: Then we flash back to the Romanian woods.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: We see a classic Orb of Thesulah.
Kristin: [laughs] Just your classic orb.
Jenny: You know, like you usually see.
Kristin: Yes, sometimes being used for spells and sometimes as paperweights.
Jenny: Yep.
Kristin: We learned in this episode did we not–
Jenny: Giles is the hoo hah–
Kristin: Giles is that guy.
Jenny: That bought the Thesulan orb.
Kristin: Hoo hah!
Jenny: And used it as a paperweight. We heard about him earlier when Jenny bought her Thesulan orb.
Kristin: So anyhow yes. The Orb– And also, what are these Orbs of Thesulah like a dime a dozen? Just everybody can have a fucking Orb of Thesulah?
Jenny: Apparently.
Kristin: Can I have one? Where’s my Orb of Thesulah?
Jenny: I will look into it.
Kristin: I’m sure they sell them, right?
Jenny: For every Orb of Thesulah I buy for you…
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: I get to buy a guitar.
Kristin: No. Then I should start with like fourteen Orbs of Thesulah.
Jenny: Ahhhh.
Kristin: Since–
Jenny: That’s a gross overestimation. So moving right along. We see Angel get re-ensouled. And we see the father of the girl he killed explaining what’s happening.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Talking us through, "Oh, you don’t remember right now, but you will."
Kristin: This is really– This is interesting to me, this concept. I mean obviously we’ve talked about it before with the ensouling and that being the punishment. But I feel like in this universe, in the Buffyverse, there’s a really strong line drawn between the monster and the person.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: And that’s a big theme of this episode. We’re about to get into a pretty intense fucking scene where we talk about this because in the curse world at least, my feeling is like man, Angel isn’t the person who killed all of those people. It’s Angelus, it’s the monster that is, as described by Angel himself or by Buffy…
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: The monster that has taken residence in Angel’s body has done these deeds. So the idea of then giving this person their personhood back but making them tortured for their entire life is twisted, right? Because by that logic, they haven’t even done anything. They’ve been possessed by this demon–
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: Or inhabited by this demon and now, they have to suffer the consequences of that demon’s actions.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And that’s the conversation that Xander takes up in the library, but what’s interesting is that in the library, I side with Xander. [stutters] So I think what I’m saying is that I’m very confused about where I fall on this.
Jenny: Well I think it’s super complicated. So in this Scooby summit…
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Re: restoring Angel’s soul, Willow is very confident. "I can do this, I think I’m the best person to do this, and I think I can make it work and Angel could be re-ensouled."
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: The thing is why wouldn’t you want to restore the good person that you know he can be?
Kristin: Right, and it’s because of course, he was that good person but he runs a very very strong risk of killing somebody. You know what I mean?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: I think that’s where Xander is coming from. And I don’t, I don’t know. If you apply this to people, if we do something wrong, we should be able to work on ourselves, to improve ourselves, and to be trusted again if we’ve done that work, right?
Jenny: Right, right. But holding onto his soul is not necessarily 100% guaranteed.
Kristin: But what is guaranteed, right? Like which is why–
Jenny: This also raises a larger question of if you can restore a soul, the human soul into a body that’s been taken over by a vampire, what is the morality of a vampire slayer?
Kristin: Ooooo.
Jenny: Just a thought.
Kristin: Jenny, wow. Deep deep deep deeeeep.
Jenny: Just a thought. I mean probably the sort of risk…
Kristin: Right, and also how many– I know–
Jenny: How many Thesulan orbs really are there?
Kristin: Right. There’s a lot of orbs, but I don’t know that there’s that many. But yeah, I think this is a really polarizing scene. I imagine this is a polarizing scene for people. It’s certainly a polarizing moment for the Scoobies–
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Probably– not probably, definitely the most polarizing moment they have shared as a group, right? ‘Cause Xander comes down and comes down hard. 
Jenny: He is 100% unable or unwilling to consider a separation between Angel and Angelus.
Kristin: Right and for the first time in my opinion, or at least in my memory, this is the first time that I really believe that Xander was not motivated by any factor having to do with Buffy or wanting to date Buffy, wanting to be with Buffy, being in love with Buffy.
Jenny: Right. This was like, this is dangerous. This person is a killer.
Kristin: Yeah. You know, his moment where he saw Giles mourning the loss of Jenny Calendar, all of that I think is what is informing him saying "No. This horrible thing has happened and we cannot bring this person back just because Buffy loves him."
Jenny: It also makes Xander think it’s okay to say "Yeah, well Jenny’s dead" to Giles.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Wow that is not okay.
Kristin: No it’s not but like, I guess–
Jenny: No, I mean I understand it. But I mean it is not okay to Giles .
Kristin: Right, of course. Right. But it’s this really blind moment of passion I think for–
Jenny: [imitating Angel] "Passion. [Kristin laughs] It sleeps inside all of us."
Kristin: I really set you up for that.
Jenny: "Waiting to be awoken."
Kristin: Okay, that’s good, that’s good. Xander has– Xander really is totally unaware of anything else except for his own feelings in this moment and it’s in a way that I really identified with where you’re like "I have to put a stop to this, and I can’t care anymore what people might think of what I have to say."
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: "Because somebody else could die and it could be someone else that I love."
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: "And I can’t let that happen." So… I don’t know. I don’t know where I fall on this. I really, really don’t. I kind of understand both sides in this argument. I really understood where Xander was coming from. But also then Willow was this incredible friend to Buffy, right?
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: She turns to Buffy and says "What do you want?" And really puts that trust in Buffy, which is probably accurate but compli– It’s just complicated. Complicated, would love to hear all of your thoughts.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Where do we stand, do we want Angel to have his soul back or not? I want to say, too, about this scene two things. There is a look that Buffy gives Xander in the moment after Xander says that to Giles that is unbelievable. It is so good. She is shocked and appalled and it’s just a really really high moment for Sarah Michelle Gellar. [Jenny laughs] I think she nails it. And then we talked about all these things that Xander has said, but then Xander pushes the line the final moment for him. "You want to forget all about Miss Calendar’s murder so you can get your boyfriend back." Really. Cutting. Words.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: So then Buffy leaves. And we lose the museum guy. R-I-P to the museum curator.
Jenny: Right. Dru kills him and then in strolls Angelus with two vampires with ropes. So my question–
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: For the universe is–
Kristin: Uh huh.
Jenny: How? Are these vampires? These two vampires–
Kristin: Uh huh.
Jenny: Transporting this enormous stone tomb across Sunnydale…
Kristin: I don’t know, I don’t know.
Jenny: Back to their castle.
Kristin: Secret passageways. Combination of secret passageways and metaphytics is my only hope.
Jenny: Uh huh.
Kristin: I don’t know. I don’t know. This little demon, this little Acathla, this little guy. He’s such a funny little guy.
Jenny: Very like– disproportionately like his waist is very low. Long torso.
Kristin: Yeah he’s very troll– He’s like troll proportions.
Jenny: Short legs very close together.
Kristin: Or an oaf– what do you call?
Jenny: An ogre?
Kristin: Ogre. An oaf. [laughs] An ogre, yeah. He’s like a little ogre. He reminded me– I looked up when we were watching the poster for Quest for Camelot because I was like [Jenny laughs] "Is there a…" But I think I was conflating Quest for Camelot with Shrek somehow.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: But he is, he’s like a little Shrek guy.
Jenny: Mmmm.
Kristin: I kind of like him. I know he’s bad but he’s kind of a cutie–
Jenny: Yeah, he’s cute for a…
Kristin: He’s kind of a cute little guy.
Jenny: Just waiting to be woken up.
Kristin: Anyhow, then Buffy’s like "What to do, what to do." Oh dear, the Claddagh ring. [Jenny laughs] Sees the Claddagh ring which she’s left next to her hot pink hair pick.
Jenny: Right right right. [Kristin laughs] Which of course fires up the old Buffy and Angel theme cue.
Kristin: Yes. You know how I love a good theme cue.
Jenny: I know you do.
Kristin: But then we get– Buffy goes to patrol. She’s going to work out her emotions.
Jenny: Yes and speaking of a couple that deserves a theme!
Kristin: Oh, who better to work out her emotions with than her best girlfriend Kendra!
Jenny: I love it!
Kristin: This is a great scene between the two of them. They’re going to make out in those bushes.
Jenny: They’re so funny.
Kristin: Come on! They’re going to kill a couple of vamps and then make out for old time’s sake.
Jenny: Okay. Regardless of whether they’re going to make out or not, [Kristin sighs sadly] which who knows what’s in the canon…
Kristin: [laughs] The canon. I’ll give you canon.
Jenny: I just love– Buffy has a foil in Kendra, right? Her true match.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: You know and kind of her polar opposite and they know each other well enough to really, like, poke each other and it’s so fun.
Kristin: Uh huh, it is.
Jenny: And I love it. Love it.
Kristin: It is! And we don’t get enough of it. We really don’t.
Jenny: And we’ll never…
Kristin: [sadly] I know.
Jenny: Get enough of it.
Kristin: It’s just [sighs]. I always forget. [Mocking self] I always forget. Everyone knows I’ve only watched the series once so I need to stop exaggerating. I forget, I forgot that we got so little time with Kendra. So little screen time. I know that technically we get a season with Kendra but she’s just really not here for very long…
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And I just love her. So much.
Jenny: So great.
Kristin: But anyway, before we start mourning her, let’s enjoy her while we have her for this episode.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: So they make out in the bushes. [Jenny laughs] Then we learn about Acathla. Acathla came to swallow the world, he was killed by a virtuous knight. Which like, who’s that guy?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Right? Not even a slayer. Just a virtuous– Just a guy with a sword killed–
Jenny: And probably looked great in a Speedo.
Kristin: Probably looked great in a Speedo, yes Jenny. Kills Acathla thereby saving the world because, and then we learn in the next scene that there’s a demon universe that lives in a different dimension.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: That Acathla can open this vortex that sucks the whole world into this other dimension and anyone who’s not a demon dies a horrible death.
Jenny: Actually, suffers in torment for all eternity, I think.
Kristin: Oh, I made it nicer.
Jenny: Remember hell? Remember the vibe of hell? It’s forever. Hell is forever, just like diamonds. [Kristin laughs] Um, you know what we didn’t touch on when Angel and Dru get Acathla’s tomb back to vampire hut?
Kristin: Uh huh.
Jenny: We get this great line from Spike. His impression of the rock that–
Kristin: [laughing] Oh my god, right.
Jenny: That prompts the Acathla history lesson which is, [imitating Spike] "It’s a big rock. Can’t wait to tell my friends. They don’t have a rock this big."
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah, Spike is really working himself up into a froth. [Jenny laughs] A wonderful, wonderful Spike froth that finally will come to its full Spike fruition in the following episode.
Jenny: Wow, wow.
Kristin: Said a lot of F-R words all together there. ‘Froth’. ‘Fruition’. Kendra has brought a sword that Giles geeks out over.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: It’s the sword that this knight– Where did they, how did they? Whatever.
Jenny: She’s just got a very dialed-in Watcher.
Kristin: Kendra strolled over to the set of Game of Thrones and was like "Hey, excuse me. Do you know which knight it was that killed Acathla?"
Jenny: [laughs] Uh huh. So Buffy’s like "Willow, I want you to try the curse." Kendra’s like "Angel should be eliminated." Buffy’s like "Oh I’ll kill him. But I want the spell as backup just in case I don’t get to kill him."
Kristin: Yeah, Willow expressing a very intense interest in the dark arts in this episode. Just saying.
Jenny: Do they have to be dark?
Kristin: No but she– but they call it the dark arts. Many times.
Jenny: Oh. Alright.
Kristin: So, no. Willow is expressing an interest in spells, really is taking a page out of Jenny Calendar’s book and going on a particular little journey here. But let me ask you a question.
Jenny: Please.
Kristin: I need to know how Drusilla doesn’t know that Spike is at full power. I don’t buy that. I don’t buy it because Drusilla sees things. And because not only does Drusilla see things, it’s like– Okay, the only way I’ll buy it is if it’s like Spike is too close to Drusilla. ‘Cause sometimes I can have witch feelings about a lot of things, but sometimes when it’s something for me, like about me personally, it’s like there’s a wall there. I can’t perceive, I don’t have any vision when it comes to certain intense things for myself. [skeptically] So maybe Spike is just so close to her that she can’t see that? But I–
Jenny: Um, well here’s a thought.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: It could be that, it could be he’s too close.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Also, before she was made vampire, Drusilla was in addition to having the Sight, was driven mad by Angel. So that’s also a part of her psychological makeup.
Kristin: Right, right.
Jenny: And it’s also possible, I don’t necessarily know that all her visions have timestamps on them. She could just– I mean obviously Spike is going to heal.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Vampires heal fast and can’t be killed by regular wounds. So we can assume that eventually Spike will be– So even if she has a vision of Spike walking or whatever–
Kristin: Well… yeah.
Jenny: She wouldn’t necessarily think, "Oh. This will be tomorrow like all my visions are."
Kristin: Right and you saying that makes me think maybe we didn’t know– Maybe you were right. Maybe we didn’t know that Drusilla could have the Sight beforehand. I think maybe what I was thinking of was that she was driven mad before he changed her. And that’s what I was thinking of. So I don’t know.
Jenny: You know what I know?
Kristin: What do you know?
Jenny: If Angel is going to perform– if Angelus is going to perform a ritual in which he needs some blood on his hands–
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: To pull the sword out of the chest of a stone demon...
Kristin: Uh huh.
Jenny: You know he’s going to find a guy who’s as ready to be shirtless as he is all the time.
Kristin: Ooo! Third runner up for sexual tension! [Jenny laughs] That guy and Angel.
Jenny: Angel and his beverage.
Kristin: [laughs] Right but Angel of course– well we don’t– Actually the ritual starts and then we go to this wonderful flashback. So many places we go to. Ireland, we go to London, we go to–
Jenny: Manhattan, baby!
Kristin: Manhattan. 1996–
Jenny: What a year.
Kristin: I tell you, it was a great year for Manhattan. I spent a good amount of time in Manhattan in 1996–
Jenny: Mmmm.
Kristin: Because it is the year the musical RENT came out, and I saw the musical three times in the first year of it being out.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: Saw the original cast, thank you very much.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: Goodnight everybody. [Jenny chuckles] No, I– I was really interested looking back to this flashback to Manhattan because my instinct was like "that’s not what Manhattan looked like in ‘96" but then I was thinking about RENT and how the city was portrayed in RENT and I thought "Damn." The Disney-fication of Times Square, and the image shift of Manhattan and boroughs adjacent to Manhattan…
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: You know, that happened in the early 90s, the mid 90s, but I feel like maybe it was still a big part of the association that people had with the city even as late as the late 90s because I don’t think that people associate that dark alleyway, steam rising from the alley, rat thing with Manhattan as much anymore.
Jenny: Right. It’s like people don’t think of Manhattan as Gotham anymore.
Kristin: Right! Which is a–
Jenny: But that’s a relatively new thing.
Kristin: And that’s a bummer! I’m sorry, I’m very against the Disney-fication of Times Square. I’m very against a lot of the things that happened in the "clean-up" – I use air quotes that you can’t see – of the city. If you want a really great fucking read on that movement in Times Square and all of those happenings, you should read this incredible book. It’s called Times Square Red, Times Square Blue. It’s by Samuel R. Delaney and actually I just looked it up, it was published in 1999. But it is– I don’t remember which part is which, but one part is really theory heavy and the other part is really story heavy. If you’re not into reading theory, you should still read the story part because it is Samuel Delaney’s account of his experience in Times Square before the clean-up and the community and the camaraderie and the cross-class, cross-race relationships that were happening in Times Square and how that cleanup really just tore all of that apart. It’s really a great read. I haven’t read in in years but I remember being really moved by it. Anyhow, who knew? Who knew that this rat-flashback to Manhattan would take me through all of these emotions? [Jenny laughs] We also meet Whistler!
Jenny: Whistler! Another New Yorker. Here he happens to be in New York.
Kristin: Yes, but– yes. Another New York accent. And something that we haven’t really touched too much upon in Buffy yet, which is that not all demons, as Whistler puts it, are dedicated to the destruction of life.
Jenny: Hell yeah.
Kristin: I just think this is really important and this is, again kind of a first for us of seeing two demons coming together for good. And Whistler is really showing Angel the ropes and I don’t know, you know we don’t get much backstory on Whistler, right? How does he know about Buffy? How does he know about Angel?
Jenny: [spooky voice] We don’t know yet.
Kristin: We don’t know, but what we do know is not only do we get Manhattan in ‘96, but then Whistler takes Angel to L.A. in ‘96.
Jenny: Hell yeah.
Kristin: This is really exciting.
Jenny: But not before he gets a hot dog.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Which I didn’t know you could order a hot dog in New York by saying "Dog me". I lived there 9 years–
Kristin: Are you going to do it next time you go? "Dog me"?
Jenny: Next time I go to New York, I’m going to be like "Check out this sweet local move. Dog me!"
Kristin: [laughs] So first of all, this Los Angeles flashback is home to a very important GIF-able Buffy moment where she’s got the lollipop and she rolls her eyes. [Jenny laughs] I have used that Buffy GIF many a time. But it’s also really exciting for me because this is Buffy the Vampire Slayer, the movie.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: So whenever I see this flashback or when I saw this flashback, I was like ‘oh my god, we have to watch the movie.’
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: You know? ‘Cause it’s really exciting. And this guy, presumably her Watcher…
Jenny: Merrick, it’s Merrick.
Kristin: It’s Merrick. Oh, so we know that it’s Merrick? Does Merrick get a name in the–
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Okay, great. So Merrick finds Buffy, he’s like "You have a destiny." She’s like "I don’t have a destiny."
Jenny: "I’m destiny-free."
Kristin: Right, and she is– this scene is set up to mark her as Cordelia.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: She walks in the same formation with the Cordettes…
Jenny: Uh huh.
Kristin: The Buffettes, I guess.
Jenny: The [pronounced] Buff-ays if you’re French.
Kristin: She’s saying the same things, "Call me, call me, call me."
Jenny: Uh huh.
Kristin: She is in full Cordelia mode. She sees Merrick and I love her response. [Jenny laughs] "Yeah. Hi. What?" [They both laugh] Just a great progression. And we see her, this is really cool, we see her kill her first vampire.
Jenny: Yeah, and we get to see her react to that.
Kristin: Yeah, and we get to see Joyce in ‘96.
Jenny: We also get to see the dawn– the prologue to the Summers family divorce.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: You know, Joyce and Hank are fighting a bunch.
Kristin: Right, Hank is so upset. Joyce talks to him like he’s a child.
Jenny: So he says.
Kristin: So he says. But you know what I think might be in play there Jenny?
Jenny: The patriarchy?!
Kristin: Correct! [laughs]
Jenny: Whew. Wow. I think this is so interesting. I think that’s so interesting because what the setup for this was– the setup for the L.A. trip was "Hey."
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: "You could go either way, you are at a crossroads. Two roads are diverging in a vamp-y wood."
Kristin: Uh huh.
Jenny: " And you could go either way. So which way are you going to go? I’m going to show you your other option or you could continue down this path."
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: And Angel after he watches Buffy [laughs], setting the tone for many times that he will watch Buffy…
Kristin: From outside the window, yes. [Jenny laughs] His favorite thing to do.
Jenny: Also, this thing with the car and the blacked out windows, how–
Kristin: Oh, right?
Jenny: So a vampire can drive a car in the daylight if the windows are blacked out, but how are they driving?!
Kristin: Right, like they can see the idea of the road and that’s enough for them?
Jenny: That just seems…
Kristin: I like it though, I like that now they’re mobile.
Jenny: Maybe the physiology of a vampire eye, because we assume they have amazing night vision because they’re nocturnal…
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Maybe there’s something that allows them to see through…
Kristin: Black paint? [laughs]
Jenny: Is it– it’s not fully opaque though, you know what I mean?
Kristin: No, it isn’t. It isn’t. No I think it’s doable and I really like the addition of this little… now vamps can drive.
Jenny: Great world detail, yeah.
Kristin: Right, so Angel comes downstairs– downstairs by the way. [laughs]
Jenny: [laughing] Downstairs into the sewers.
Kristin: Downstairs into the sewers and he’s like "Whistler, I want to help and I want you to train me and I want to be like you, but I don’t want to dress like you."
Jenny: Which is great because nobody wants to see Angel in that porkpie hat. [Kristin laughs] And Whistler says something really interesting.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: He says "The more you live in this world, the more you see how apart from it you really are."
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Which is so interesting because Angel has been distancing himself from the world during this sort of post-traumatic stress period of his reensouled life where he’s just grieving and dealing with the trauma of having been sort of overtaken and piloted into murdering literally countless people.
Kristin: Right. Yeah, there’s a lot of deep digs in this episode. And the next episode. [sing-song] I can’t wait to talk about the next one too [Jenny laughs]. But first, we go back to the ritual [Jenny laughs]. Angel has failed and I’m just going to… Angel doesn’t do it. He doesn’t do it.
Jenny: He can’t pull the sword out.
Kristin: He can’t pull the sword out and the moment that follows is good enough for us to share a sound clip with you all. The sound clip is titled in my phone ‘Acathla Fail.’ [Jenny laughs]
NOTES: [Audio clip plays]
Spike: [sing-song] Someone wasn’t worthy.
Angel: Dammit!
Drusilla: [whining] This is so disappointing [moaning].
Kristin: [laughs]
Jenny: The two best possible reactions.
Kristin: "[imitating Drusilla’s whining] This is so disappointing." That fucking noise that she makes, it kills me.
Jenny: Followed by Angel smashing some priceless antique pottery, he’s so mad.
Kristin: God, Angel loves an antique and to smash an antique, you know? Just…
Jenny: Truly.
Kristin: His apartment must have been decorated in the only antiques he didn’t smash as Angelus the last time [They both laugh]. Anyhow, so he’s failed, Spike’s delighting in it. We cut to the classroom where the– what’s this thing called?
Jenny: An Immolation-o-gram.
Kristin: Immolation-o-gram? What does that mean?
Jenny: Immolation means like burning.
Kristin: Ohhh, okay. I loved it before I even knew what it meant. It’s Lily Tomlin. It’s not, but this is like Lily Tomlin–
Jenny: Kristin thinks this vampire is Lily Tomlin.
Kristin: I really– like I honestly looked at Jenny when we watched it the first time and was like "Is that Lily Tomlin as a vamp? [Jenny laughs] As a suicide vamp?" Left to send a message to the classroom.
Jenny: How do you get this job? And why do you take it?
Kristin: Right? For the honor? Like what?
Jenny: There’s no honor among vampires I feel like.
Kristin: I know, that’s the thing.
Jenny: Although I guess when the Anointed One was around and the Master, there was a lot of pseudo-religious…
Kristin: Yeah, martyr…
Jenny: Loyalty, yeah.
Kristin: Martyrdom stuff. So anyhow, Lily Tomlin as a vamp is all like "[dramatic voice] The graveyard…" and then just combusts and everyone in the classroom is like ‘[casually] That was weird.’
Jenny: ‘Anyway, back to my test.’
Kristin: Right. Important note: what is the fuck i s Buffy wearing?! What is she wearing?!
Jenny: What was she wearing?
Kristin: She was wearing the blue, iridescent–
Jenny: Oh, the jacket.
Kristin: Knee-length jacket that’s like she should be interning– not interning, she should be like with a briefcase going to her desk being a high-faluting power lady?
Jenny: Or like, maybe a lawyer in Xanadu?
Kristin: Oh, perfect. A lawyer in Xanadu.
Jenny: But you know why I think she’s wearing that jacket?
Kristin: Why?
Jenny: Because it looks so fucking good later when she’s running in slow motion.
Kristin: In slow motion, it does. It really does.
Jenny: So Buffy’s like ‘I gotta go. Angel said meet him at 9pm.’
Kristin: Ugh, like what the fuck?
Jenny: ‘I gotta go kill him. I haven’t learned any lessons recently. I gotta go.’
Kristin: I don’t understand– this is a bit of a hole for me. I don’t know, I want to really believe that she would be smarter than this or that someone else would be– You know, even if she’s too emotionally invested to see this–
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: That someone would say like ‘Hey guys, remember when this happened last time? It didn’t go so well.’ But she decides to go and the best part about her going… [Jenny laughs] Do you know what it is Jenny?
Jenny: Kendra gives her her– [Kristin squeals] Kendra gives her her stake.
Kristin: And she’s named… Mr. Pointy.
Jenny: So beautiful.
Kristin: Mr. Pointy.
Jenny: So beautiful.
Kristin: God, Kendra. This is like– This is testament to great writing that through just a few things, we get so attached to Kendra.
Jenny: Yeah, what is this? The third episode that she’s been in? Love her.
Kristin: Yeah, we love her. Just like, the fucking shirt is her only shirt, the fucking– she doesn’t have any fucking toys or friends so she’s names her stake [Jenny laughs]. It’s just great great character development.
Jenny: Great.
Kristin: We love her so much. So Buffy leaves and then the Scoobies are left with Kendra to do the spell.
Jenny: Okay. I’ve got a major bone to pick.
Kristin: Okay, tell me.
Jenny: Buffy wants to go to the cemetery and meet Angel? Ill-advised but I understand.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: She’s swept up in panic and fire. She just wants to meet him on the battlefield.
Kristin: Yes, she wants it to be over.
Jenny: You know what I cannot get behind?
Kristin: What?
Jenny: Oh, we’ve got to cast this sensitive spell to complete this ritual. We should do it in a public place where anyone can enter. Let’s not go to one of our houses .
Kristin: Right, right.
Jenny: Let’s not go to a place where a vampire would need an invitation to come in.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Let’s do it at the fucking library.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: No, no, no. Giles, you’re better than this man.
Kristin: I know, right? And maybe, if we’re going to justify it in any way, we could maybe root it in what we were talking about last week or a couple of weeks ago where they’re sort of really reeling. Giles is still reeling from Jenny’s death–
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Buffy is still reeling from this whole Angel situation perhaps that has caused them to not think on their feet. But the flip side is, I think that’s the very definition of the Scooby Gang is that they fucking think on their feet and they should have known better. They should have done better here. But you know who does a great job in this scene, in the beginning of this scene? Cordelia. [Jenny laughs] You know why? She’s walking around with some sage.
Jenny: Mmmm.
Kristin: That’s her job. That is her job.
Jenny: I would like–
Kristin: They gave everybody a job and Cordelia’s was to sage.
Jenny: I would really like Cordelia to come over and sage our house.
Kristin: If we ever get Charisma Carpenter on the podcast, I’m going to ask her to bring some sage with her–
Jenny: Uh huh.
Kristin: And sage our house before she leaves.
Jenny: Good, good.
Kristin: That seems fair, right? So of course, as we know, as we sadly know. This was a trick. The vampires run in there after Giles because Giles knows the ritual and Angel knows that Giles knows the ritual.
Jenny: Or can decode the texts, whatever.
Kristin: Or can decode the– right. That he is a useful resource for this situation and so in come the vampires and this is a brutal attack. It’s a very odd attack because the vampires don’t bite anyone.
Jenny: They are very mission specific.
Kristin: Yeah. They knock Willow underneath the bookcase, they snap Xander’s arm in what is just a repulsive scene…
Jenny: [grossed out] Blagh.
Kristin: I hate that moment. You know, Xander tells Cordelia to run, so we see Cordelia run away. Giles gets captured and Kendra–
Jenny: Willow goes down under a bookshelf.
Kristin: Yeah, I said that.
Jenny: Oops.
Kristin: It’s okay. It’s a very traumatic thing.
Jenny: So much to keep track of.
Kristin: And then Dru walks in.
Jenny: Then Dru walks in and we learn something. That she possesses some manner of hypnotism powers.
Kristin: Yeah, which was very believable.
Jenny: Yeah, very in the realm of her character I think.
Kristin: Right. And there’s… I mean I don’t 100% understand why Kendra isn’t powerful to at least know to close her eyes or something to break this but–
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Dru is very very powerful.
Jenny: Well I’ll tell you what, Dru was ill. Dru was weak and she subsequently regained a great deal of power.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: She was carrying Spike around like he was a rag doll.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Is it possible that this is just a sort of heightened power? So not even Kendra’s A+ Watcher knows that Drusilla can do this?
Kristin: Right, right. Whatever the reason, Dru gets her. And there’s this beautiful moment where they’re swaying together…
Jenny: Oh yeah, it’s so creepy.
Kristin: It’s so creepily done. It’s just beautiful in a horrible way. And then in this– this kill is heartbreaking because Drusilla doesn’t even drink from the Slayer. Right? Which is like, isn’t that the best kill you can get is killing a Slayer? You’d think that she would at least take one sip.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Of Slayer blood and she doesn’t. She just slits Kendra’s throat, lets her drop and is like ‘on with the mission.’
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: It’s like, it feels very– I don’t know. I just feel like Kendra didn’t even get honored in her death, you know?
Jenny: Mmmm.
Kristin: Which is sad, it makes me so sad that she didn’t even get that.
Jenny: Wow. [pauses] I’m just thinking about the second to most recent sci-fi novel that I read which was Stranger in a Strange Land in which a human baby crash lands on Mars and all of the humans manning the ship–
Kristin: I love how every time you start talking about this book, you start by saying a human baby before anyone knows… [Jenny laughs] before anyone who hasn’t read it knows that they are alien babies.
Jenny: So this baby lands on Mars and the adults in the crew all die. This baby is raised by Martians who are culturally very different.
Kristin: Mmmm.
Jenny: And one of the ways in which they are different is that they honor their dead by cannibalizing them.
Kristin: Oh wow.
Jenny: Waste not, want not style. That’s just what you made me think of.
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: Great book, you should all read it, it’s so great.
Kristin: Yeah, I haven’t read it yet and it’s on my list. So Kendra dies.
Jenny: Rest in peace Kendra. We hardly knew ye.
Kristin: We really did hardly knew ye and we loved ye so very much. Buffy before Angel even finishes explaining what has happened of course is like ‘What the fuck is wrong with me?’ and runs at full speed back to the library.
Jenny: [sadly] Ugh. For some reason jumps over a bench that she easily could have run around using less energy.
Kristin: I’m into it, I’ll take it. But she gets to the library to this horrific scene and it is narrated by Whistler.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: This beautiful monologue. I didn’t write all of it down but the bits that I wrote down I think capture the essence of it. "No one asks for their life to change but it does and it’s what you do after that counts. It’s where you see who you really are." Especially that line, "no one asks for their life to change but it does." It’s just– I don’t know.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Not to get all uber serious, but I’ve had many moments in my life where this is exactly how I felt. Living through 9/11, my mom almost dying, just these moments that are like you thought you knew what your life was and it turns out you didn’t know at all. You didn’t know anything and you know you’ll never be able to live a life that doesn’t have that footprint in it.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: That it is forever and I don’t think that those moments are frequent. But when they happen you know, it’s like something in your gut you know. No matter what, no matter how much you recover, and we do. We recover, we get stronger, we get better, we feel better. But no matter how much we recover, that footprint is always there and it becomes part of us which is really what this Whistler monologue is talking about. And this is the second really really tragic death in just a couple short episodes.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Things are getting very very real for the whole Scooby Gang very quickly and the impact that it will have on all of them I think we will see and we will continue to see how it plays out.
Jenny: So Buffy slow-mo runs all through the school.
Kristin: Right of course. I missed that, I’m so sorry. That’s Jenny’s favorite moment and I missed it.
Jenny: It’s very important and it’s a really sweet parallel to a special moment in Celine Dion’s video for "It’s All Coming Back to Me Now".
Kristin: Yeah, we’re going to do our best to get you a side by side GIF set of those moments.
Jenny: [laughs] Please god let it be so!
Kristin: Follow us @bufferingcast if you’d like to see the side by side GIF that we will hopefully procure for you [Jenny laughs]. And then you know, as she surveys the scene, her eyes land on Kendra. She crouches down in this moment of ‘oh no’. And then in what is a twist–
Jenny: Nobody saw coming.
Kristin: Nobody saw this coming. We just hear "Freeze!" And we see a gun come up against Buffy. And then it’s just ‘To Be Continued’.
Jenny: Unbelievable.
Kristin: So much happened in this episode. [Jenny groans] So much is about to happen in the next episode. What a finale. What a finale. We are halfway there and just as a reminder, "Becoming, Part 2" will go up for all of our listeners. But if you are just needing to have it right now, needing to hear what we have to say about "Becoming 2", if you’re a Stitcher Premium member you can listen to that episode right now. It is up on Stitcher Premium. You just go to stitcherpremium.com/buffy. There’s a promo code there for you to use. You get a free month and you can listen to the finale over there.
Jenny: Hell yes. Oh my god, we almost forgot! [Kristin gasps] The most important part of any episode!
Kristin: Good lord!
Jenny: The official declaration of the Sexual Tension Award for "Becoming, Part 1".
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Who’s going to get it?
Kristin: I’m in for Kendra and Buffy.
Jenny: We’re never going to be able to give it to Kendra and Buffy again.
Kristin: That’s true.
Jenny: So I think–
Kristin: In memoriam, it goes to Kendra and Buffy. And while we’re on the topic of Sexual Tension Awards, Jenny.
Jenny: Yes?
Kristin: Well I don’t know if you know this but we did our first ever listener generated Sexual Tension Award for "I Only Have Eyes for You".
Jenny: Oh yeah.
Kristin: We never announced it–
Jenny: Oh my gosh.
Kristin: And so I just want to let everyone know that "I Only Have Eyes for You", the award went to the Throuple by a pretty big margin [Jenny laughs[. The Throuple being of course Angel, Spike, and Drusilla. So they have already gotten their trophy. It was sent in the mail very promptly. But we’re just letting you all know. Thank you so much for your votes.
Jenny: Congrats to the Throuple.
Kristin: Yes, congrats to the Throuple and we’ll be sure to do at least one listener generated Sexual Tension Award in Season 3.
Jenny: Absolutely. But for now, I am Jenny Owen Youngs. When I’m not watching Buffy and making this podcast with Kristin, I write songs and record them and am just a general musician. You can learn more about me and hear some of the songs that I make that aren’t about Buffy at jennyowenyoungs.com/buffering. You can also give me a shout on Twitter @jennyowenyoungs.
Kristin: Jenny Owen Youngs: just a general musician [Jenny and Kristin laugh]. I am Kristin Russo, you can follow me over on Twitter or Instagram @kristinnoele. [spells it out] Just kidding! Are you on your toes? [Jenny laughs] It’s @kristinnoeline.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: Um, you can learn more about my work with LGBTQ young people and their families as well over at everyoneisgay.com or mykidisgay.com.
Jenny: Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on Facebook and Twitter @bufferingcast and you can always drop us an email at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin: Yes and there are some wonderful ways that you can support our work. One of them is over at Patreon. You’ve probably heard us talk about it before. On our website bufferingthevampireslayer.com, you can click on the tab that says ‘Patreon’, it’ll take you on over to our Patreon page. There’s a lot of fun things happening over there. There’s a little Facebook group. It’s not even little. There is a Facebook group that is just raging [Jenny laughs] with Buffy content for all of our patrons. And also, all of our patrons are invited to our Buffywatches. We have one coming up on July 30th and not only do we have a Buffywatch, but it is a listener chosen Buffywatch. So if you’re a patron, there is a poll up for you on Patreon. You can choose which episode you want to watch with us on July 30th. So that’s fun.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: You can also support us by subscribing to Stitcher Premium. Stitcher Premium is a pretty awesome platform where you get exclusives and original content and you also can get the finale of our podcast today if you’re a Stitcher Premium member.
Jenny: What?
Kristin: I know, right? So if you’re just dying , no pun intended? [Jenny laughs] To listen to our episode of "Becoming 2", you can go on over to stitcherpremium.com/buffy and use the promo code ‘Buffy’. You get a free month and you get a discount on the yearly membership. You will get today the finale but if you want to stay as a member, you will get many other fun things, fun exclusives, and moving into Season 3, we will be starting to do some exclusives over there as well.
Jenny: Heck yeah. Well friends, as we round the bend towards finishing Season 2, Kristin and I are thinking about ways to improve the show and we would love your input. We’ve put together a listener survey where you can weigh in on what you like and what you don’t. Your feedback will help us make the show even better. And everyone who completes the survey and includes their email address will be entered to win a Buffering shirt of their choosing.
Kristin: So many to choose from.
Jenny: Now there are [Kristin laughs]. All you have to do is just go to bufferingthevampireslayer.com and click on ‘Survey’.
Kristin: Yes, the survey will be up through the end of the summer and we would really really appreciate your input. It will help really guide us like Jenny said into Season 3.
Jenny: We’ve also got a season wrap-up episode coming on July 19th and we want to feature your voices. If you’re so inclined, please send us a voice memo that is 90 seconds or less telling us about your favorite episode of season 2, your favorite moment of season 2, or whatever you want to tell us about season 2. And you might be featured on our podcast.
Kristin: Whoo!
Jenny: Send your voice memos to bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com . And ‘til next time…
Jenny and Kristin: Awooooooo!
Jenny: Yes.
NOTES: [Ad sound]
Jenny: Once again, today’s episode is brought to you by Bold Food Tours. Join Bold Food tours for the food experience of a lifetime.
Kristin: Tours include everything from street food and cultural attractions to meals at the most coveted restaurants in the world. All you have to do is bring yourself and your appetite. Learn more at boldfoodco.com