Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 4.01: The Freshman
Jenny: Paul Scheer and Amy Nicholson are watching the greatest movies of all time on their new podcast "Unspooled" the first episode is out now. Paul and Amy are watching all those classic movies you’re supposed to have seen like Citizen Kane, that’s the first episode. And they’re gonna cover everything from the AFI 100 list, like Taxi Driver, The Graduate, Pulp Fiction. They explore their crazy backstories, like how a group of Hollywood bigwigs tried to stop Citizen Kane from being made. They actually wanted to burn it, Angel would appreciate that. And they bring on film experts to talk about what happened behind the scenes, if you’ve heard Paul’s other podcast "How did this get made?" you know this will be fun. Also Paul Scheer, noted Buffy the Vampire Slayer fan. Check out "Unspooled" in podcast apps like Apple Podcasts right now.
NOTES: [chime]
Jenny: Oh, hey, everybody!
Kristin: Hello!
Jenny: Remember us?
Kristin: My name is Kristin.
Jenny: And I’m Jenny.
Kristin: And we do a podcast, it’s really– it’s about Buffy , we haven’t talked–
Jenny: The vampire slayer, not the other one.
Kristin: Right, right, right. We haven’t talked since, like, you know, the Sunnydale high school...
Jenny: I don’t know if you remember me from homeroom… but now we’re in college!
Kristin: [laughs] You signed my yearbook but…
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: Here we are at college! Holy crap, we’ve missed you! It’s been… six weeks? It’s been six weeks.
Jenny: It feels like six years.
Kristin: It really, really does.
Jenny: The passage of time without you has dramatically shifted.
Kristin: We hope all of you had a great summer in between high school and college.
Jenny: I hope you had… a summer. I don’t care what kind.
Kristin: Oh, wow. Throw… callback.
Jenny: Throwin’ it back, yeah.
Kristin: Throwback. [laughs] So, here we are in the intro. We know that you just want to get through the intro–
Jenny: [laughs] "Here we are in the intro."
Kristin: That’s where we are.
Jenny: I’m dropping a pin.
Kristin: [laughs] Coordinates are… Intro at intro. We know you wanted to get into the episode but we have a couple of things that we want to share with you. Namely, we’re in season four of Buffy . And that means we’re also in season one… of Angel .
Jenny: Oh. My. God.
Kristin: Right. And for three seasons of Buffy , you have all written to us and said, "Uh… what are you gonna do when you get to Angel?  Do you guys know that there’s a show called Angel , and uh, we’d love to hear you talk about it. Could you talk about Angel ?"
Jenny: Uhhhhh, we’re gonna tell you what we’re gonna do about Angel !
Kristin: Yeah, as many of you already know, Brittany Ashley and Laura Zak are joining our family and they are co-hosting Angel on Top– a little throwback there to Amends– is it Amends? The Christmas episode?
Jenny: Hell, yeah.
Kristin: Yeah, where Joyce asks Buffy if the angel s  hould go on top. Get it?
Jenny: I get it!
Kristin: Anyway, they are beginning an Angel- watch podcast, Angel on Top. It launches next week, May 30th, the very first episode. They’re gonna take you episode by episode just like we do. We’re gonna loan them some jingles. The Detective Angel jingle for sure. One other very , very important jingle–
Jenny: Near and dear to our hearts–
Kristin: Super dear to our hearts, but we won’t spoil which one that is just in case some of you are coming into Angel for the first time. And you may be wondering, "but Jenny, Kristin, when I watched Buffy and Angel on television, they have it on the same day. It was 8 o’clock and then 9 o’clock." Was it 8 o’clock and 9 o’clock? I actually don’t know if it was…
Jenny: Legit, I have no idea.
Kristin: Well, we’ll just say it is. It makes sense. "It was 8 o’clock and 9 o’clock, and why, why would you be doing Buffy on the 23rd but not Angel until the 30th? What does it all mean?" Well…
Jenny: Let us illuminate.
Kristin: Yes, let us please get you there. First of all, we are going to be alternating with Angel on Top. So we’re here today, May 23rd, happy May 23rd to you, and Angel on Top will be May 30th, and we’re gonna go every other week. And we’re doing that for a couple of reasons. One, we know that many of you are able to watch the whole season of Buffy in one sitting and you can’t keep up with us.
Jenny: But some of you are like, "Well, I’ve got the Handmaid’s Tale, I’ve got Westworld , I’m catching up on Community … there’s a lot to manage here…"
Kristin: Yeah Brooklyn Nine-Nine , is it gone, is it not? It’s not, It’s a whole thing. Anyway, so we wanted to allow for people who wanted to watch and keep up with us to be able to, but also, Jenny and I mentioned a couple of times as we wound out of season three that we were moving through some family stuff, some personal family stuff, and we’re still moving through that. And when we were looking at our May 23rd launch date, we knew we either were going to need to come back in a little bit of a lighter fashion or we were gonna need to wait until the fall to come back. And we did not want to wait. We wanted to come back, and so this seemed like the best solution for all things. We also really appreciate all the love that so many of you have sent us, knowing that we’re moving through some hard stuff right now, so–
Jenny: Thanks, y’all.
Kristin: So, thank you. Thank you to our Scooby gang. And we hope that you’ll be as excited as we are to have this back and forth. I think it’s gonna be really fun. I’m really excited to hear what Laura and Brittany have to say about Angel. And just so you know, many of you have asked, too, "what about the crossover episodes?" Obviously, we will be partying with some crossover episodes.
Jenny: Don’t worry about it!
Kristin: We’ll be getting in on each other’s podcasts with some regularity.
Jenny: Absolutely.
Kristin: If you think I can go without talking about a certain someone on a certain other episode of television, you’re wrong! You’re wrong.
Jenny: And if you’re like, "wow, this is great information to have, however, I am a visual learner, please, Jenny and Kristin," then be advised that you can find our release schedule over at bufferingthevampireslayer.com. Just click on "calendar" and we’ve got episodes up through the end of the summer right now so you can know what to expect when you’re expecting to be listening to our podcast and also Angel on Top.
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah, there’s a book about that. What to Expect When You’re Expecting, it’s about Buffy and Angel . Also pertaining to Angel , so, you can find out how to subscribe to their feed, you can find out about their Patreon, you can find out about their socials using our website. Just go to bufferingthevampireslayer.com/angel and all of that information is laid out for you. Their Patreon page is pretty fun. They’re writing – you know we do a song at the end of every episode, Brittany and Laura are writing a poem from the perspective of brooding Angel for every episode.
Jenny: Yes! No intel whether those poems will be in English or French–
Kristin: [at the same time] Latin?
Jenny: Or Latin. Maybe they’ll go every third week, you know? Every third episode, English, French, Latin…
Kristin: I’m sure they’re up to the trilingual challenge of writing poetry in all of those languages. But in addition to–
Jenny: if I’m putting them– sorry, I wanna put $5 down right now, Laura speaks French, Brittany speaks Latin.
Kristin: Wow. We’ll find out and let you know.
Jenny: I’m willing to stand by it.
Kristin: But we wanted to let you know a couple things. They’ll be doing Angel watches just like we do Buffy -watches, as a matter of fact, Jenny and Brittany and Laura all did an Angel watch on the 20th, just past us, you can find out all that on their Patreon. And there’s a bonus episode that is released today, May 23rd, over there, where Jenny and I sat down with Laura and Brittany and we talked about the journey of our beloved Detective Angel from seasons one through three of Buffy, so it’s all about Angel, all the time.
Jenny: All about Angel.
Kristin: And it’s for all of their patrons over there, you can access it over there. So, bufferingthevampireslayer.com/angel will get you there.
Jenny: Also, wow, wow, wow, so much happening right now. In our store, if that’s the kinda thing you’re into, just a quick heads up, many things which have been out of stock have been restocked. We’ve got muscle tanks coming back, we’ve got a new "Just Keep Fighting" color variation that’s this cool heather aqua with yellow print up for pre-order, oh my god. We also have a "Just Keep Fighting" tote, there’s a whole lot of excitement over there in the shop, which of course you can find by going to bufferingthevampireslayer.com and clicking on ‘shop’. All of those items should be up sometime today, Wednesday. If they’re not there right at this moment in time when you’re listening to the dulcet tones of my voice, they will be soon. So just keep an eye out for that. Also, also, also, oh my god. We are coming to Brooklyn to do a live taping of everybody’s favorite episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer … Beer Bad! It’s happening on July 8th, which is a Sunday, and we would love for you to join us, so please feel free to get all of the hot, hot, hot information by going to bufferingthevampireslayer.com and clicking on our calendar page. Everything you need to know is right there. Yes! Oh my god. So exciting.
Kristin: Yes! So. Exciting. So exciting.
Jenny: So exciting. And now let’s get in to the very first episode of season four.
Kristin: Wow. In the words of Jenny… "wow."
Jenny: How dare you. You know, how did this become a thing? Everybody says wow.
Kristin: Not as much as you.
Jenny: ...maybe.
NOTES: [Theme Music]
Jenny: [yelling] Hello! And welcome to season four of Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast where we are watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer one at a time. My name is Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: And my name is Kristin Russo and this is week, as you may have gathered from Jenny’s unbridled enthusiasm–
Jenny: [yelling] Yes!
Kristin: We are talking about season four, episode one, the Freshman. Stay tuned at the end of this podcast every week for an original song, written by us, recapping the Buffy episode we are discussing, and we are discussing it spoiler-free, Jenny, you forgot to say that in your intro.
Jenny: I’m sorry, I’m sorry, I’m sorry, I’m sorry, I’m sorry.
Kristin: It’s okay, we’re rusty. We’re coming back, it’s been a minute–
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah, just getting back into it, loosening up the oldKristin: We’re going to take a minute and stretch.
Jenny: Ahhhhh, The Freshman was written and directed by Joss Whedon, some guy. And originally aired on October 5, 1999.
Kristin: Woo, we’re getting to the end of ‘99. I wonder what’s going to happen, do you think that Y2K is going to take us all–
Jenny: Yeah, do you think that computers are going to stop working because of clocks...
Kristin: [laughs] This is the one where Buffy feels like a fish out of water...
Jenny: [cackles]
Kristin: I didn’t write it…
Jenny: I know.
Kristin: In her first year at college, but the mysterious disappearance of a fellow student, aka Eddie, puts her back in her element.
Jenny: Wow!
Kristin: Thanks Eddie, thanks for getting vamped so Buffy could feel better.
Jenny: Uh, yes?
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: Everybody’s always just getting sacrificed so Buffy can have a nice arc. You ever notice that?
Kristin: I do, I mean, that’s how you write a good plot line. You know?
Jenny: I… [questioningly] yes?
Kristin: Have a vampire slayer, and then make sure a lot of people die, so that she can continue on forward.
Jenny: Hooray!
Kristin: So there’s a lot to talk about hereJenny: So. Much. Happening.
Kristin: We’re in college.
Jenny: Yes we are.
Kristin: We are in college.We are. And, you laugh ‘cause you’re like, Buffy’s in college, but I feel like, Jenny, you and I are going to do a lot of talking
about us being in college in this episodeJenny: Oh lord have mercy on me a sinner.
Kristin: Literally . You sort of can’t talk about this episode without reliving your own freshman year, especially your entry into freshman year of college. Right?
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah...yeah.
Kristin: But let’s start at the very beginning, as they say. Who did Buffy’s hair, in this first scene?
Jenny: Wait, I don’t remember what it looked like, what did it look like?
Kristin: How could you not… typicalJenny: [laughs] I’m pretty bad at noticing hair.
Kristin: It’s two incredible French braids that go from the right to the left, and meet around at the back, like, there’s no way that any person is capable of doing that to their own hair, well maybe Jasika Nicole, she’s good.
Jenny: Yeah, she could probably do it. Well, who was it that was really good at braiding and who was bad at braiding, Willow v. Xander?
Kristin: XanderJenny: Xander was really good at it. And Willow was bad. But Xander’s out of town though…
Kristin: Right. So Xander would have had to do that braid, you know, a couple months ago-
Jenny: Maybe Oz did it.
Kristin: [laughs] But yeah, Buffy’s hair is all whatever. Willow’s got a college-cut, you now...
Jenny: [under her breath] Yeah, she’s got a college-cut.
Kristin: Did you make that noise because you really like Willow’s hair?
Jenny: Just looks like a great cut for college. Willow’s wearing this hoodie, with a little logo on it, that looks like it says "The Mystery Woman" and it kinda looks like a hatless Carmen Sandiego is featured.
Kristin: Which would be of the time.
Jenny: Do you know anything about it, people?
Kristin: Yeah, let us know bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Jenny: Thank you!
Kristin: [laughs] So, this is like the first- there’s going to be a lot of things, times in this episode where I’m like ok, so this reminds me of my college
experience and this reminds meJenny: Oh yeah, like when you were hanging out in the graveyard, doing
course selection, sureKristin: Exactly, after French braiding my own hair. No, but this looking through the courses and being like "Images of Pop Culture" you just watch commercials in class? I feel like college is, as we’ll get to later, that class winds up being a nightmare. But college is pretty exciting for a lot of reasons but one is that you’re taking classes that are really fucking cool.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah! Fun, fun times. A lot more autonomy in terms of what you’re focusing on and learning about… so exciting.
Kristin: The other thing in this scene that I really liked was that Willow, I think, is like "yeah, it’s 5 miles away, it’s uncharted territory" but to the viewer we’re like it IS uncharted territory. Our map of Sunnydale just like [boop noise to indicate expansion] got a little bigger.
Jenny: Yeah, speaking of, just to jump ahead for one second, how do you think Buffy got home?
Kristin: Right, to Joyce’s house?
Jenny: Yeah, did she take the bus?
Kristin: [laughs] I wondered the same thing, I was like, I don’t see her
have a carJenny: 5 miles!
Kristin: 5 miles is kind of a hike.
Jenny: Maybe she just ran.
Kristin: But she does love the bus, we know she loves riding the bus.
Jenny: [laughing] Yeah.
Kristin: So, this scene, before we get to the campus, really just sets us up for new hairdos, ‘cause college, and of course that Buffy not super on point right now because this vamp that they’ve been waiting for gets out of his grave and wanders away and they miss the whole thing. I don’t know, I think is just a little tip of big life change, ya know?
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Then we go to the credits [singing] which are different!
Kristin: Couple of important things in the credits.
Jenny: Strong feature for the hellhound, early on, which I know you love.
Kristin: I do, I love the fucking hellllll…
Jenny: Four-legged furry scabs. And also vamp Willow- or regular Willow in vamp Willow’s clothing.
Kristin: Right. Get to the important part Jenny, what else is in the credits?
Jenny: God, there’s a lot of Spike. Is it just me or is there a lot of Spike in the credits?
Kristin: There’s a lot of peroxide covered vamp in this.
Jenny: Whoooo, I wonder what that could mean? And then there’s some stuff from episodes that are not episode one, that we haven’t seen yet, that we’re not going to talk about until we get there.
Kristin: Yes, Xander squeezing a juice box.
Jenny: [emphasizing] That we are not going to talk about until we get there.
Kristin: What? I’m just saying, wonder why he’s squeezing the juice box, that’s all I’m saying.
Jenny: [giggling] Me too, he’s thirsty. He is thirsty!
Kristin: Wow, okay moving along.
NOTES: [both laugh]
Jenny: So, I noticed when we were watching just now, the very, very first
shot of the college campus has this totally random vignettingKristin: I’m sorry, Screech sound effect. Are you done with talking about the credits?
Jenny: What did I miss? What did I miss? What did I miss?
Kristin: You missed Buffy and Faith dancing toJenny: Ho, yeah!
Kristin: What are you talking about "What did you miss"? My two biggest
notes about the credits were fucking Bad GirlsJenny: Do you know what’s wild? I have seen that microscene GIF’d and sent to us, so many times that it does not register as new information in the credits. It feels like it’s always been there. It feels like it was there in Season one, it feels like it’s under my skin, it feels like it’s in my soul.
Kristin: The soundtrack to your soul is just the GIF of Buffy and Faith dancing together. But also, one other thing that I want to point out that is almost on par with the sexiness of Buffy and Faith dancing together, is Giles and chainsaw. Now, I don’t know why he’s going to have a chainsaw, but…
Jenny: But ya love Giles with a chainsaw.
Kristin: It’s in the credits and I’m fucking here for it.
Jenny: Yeah, I’m into it.
Kristin: You know who else is here for it?
Jenny: Who?
Kristin: Kate Leth is probably here for GilesJenny: Yeah if I had to put some money down on Kate Leth being here for some stuff, it ends with Giles.
Kristin: With a chainsaw.
Jenny: Really.
Kristin: So maybe we can jump right over to Kate. I know you’ve all missed Kate! We can go to the fashion watch?
Jenny: hell! Yes!
[Jenny singing fashion watch jingle: it’s time for our friend Kate, to give you the Buffy fashion update!]
Kate: well welcome back to Buffy fashion watch, and yes Kristin and Jenny, you are right I’m very happy about that addition to the intro sequence. We’re at college, everything is different. Willow’s got new hair, Buffy’s wearing mesh and silk and wedges and a puffy sleeved sundress I’m particularly fond of. Also, shout-out to her braids from the cold open, which look really great and super cute. There’s so much to comment on here, from Giles’s companion Olivia, who I truly wish became a series regular, wearing Giles’s shirt—ah, the dream—to Willow’s blossoming love affair with knitted and crocheted sweaters which we are going to see a lot of. Sorry for the spoiler. Of course, the episode’s fashion prize goes to Sunday, who I also wish was a series regular, except for the boring fat jokes, that’s—whatever. She pulls off an incredible traci lord in "Crybaby" meets y2k goth look that is in my opinion iconic. I have definitely thought of her when getting dressed more than once in my life. The twisted hair, the chokers, the lace, the leggings, the vamp lipstick, everything about her look is iconic, and I love a blonde goth. It’s just a great look. Too bad about all that… I prepared a song for this episode but unfortunately my voice isn’t in the range. So I thought I would read to you the lyrics as a spoken word piece. I hope you’ll enjoy.
NOTES: [background music with Kate reading lyrics] In season one she knew everything A teenage girl who rarely ever took advice Now she’s been killed, bitten, transported from hell back and more But nothing’s even close To the first day of school No We’ve seen her irresponsible Until there’s demons to face Now it’s time to be responsible College is more than just a new place And it almost seems Willow can’t remember That Buffy’s definitely wise in ways that might not apply Every time I see I forget how she ignores her friends Common sense But they’re merely freshmen Her watcher took a summer vacation To forget her Invited a babe To play records Except that Buffy’s found That the campus has vampires galore She’s gonna need her friends but they’ve dispersed throughout town, I said It’s pretty irresponsible To pick on the girl that slays And Sunday, you’re responsible For your own public disgrace Back in season three Can we not remember? When the Scoobies led a tribe To make sure the mayor died For the life of me I cannot believe She’d think she’d stand half a chance Taking on that freshman What? I’m an overachiever I’ll see you at the mall.
NOTES: [music fades out] [fashion watch ending jingle] that was our friend kate, she gave you the Buffy fashion update
Jenny: Kate, how dare you! How dare you.
Kristin: Kate, that’s it, I’ve had enough, it’s just too much.
Jenny: Who can handle this woman?!
Kristin: Eternal question. An eternal question Jenny. Kate, thank you so much for just wowing us, all the time. Just—
Jenny: One hundred percent of the time.
Kristin: One hundred percent wows, one hundred percent of the time.
Jenny: Jesus H. Christ, that was too much. Yes.
Kristin: Okay! Let’s go to college!
Jenny: Let’s do it!
Kristin: So, we looked up that the UC Sunnydale campus is UCLA, most of
the exterior shots, I don’t know about all of them, but-Jenny: Okay, okay.
Kristin: Certainly the main exterior shot, and I think the library is the UCLA library. Anyway, there’s a lot—so this is like a montage—it’s not a montage, it’s not like a proper montage, but we like, in two seconds, we get this woman standing in the square with like, "freshmen! If you have this color folder go here, and if you have this color folder go here" then like there’s a bunch of protesters being like "hell no we won’t--" whatever, to like some generalized protest.
Jenny: Uh huh, uh huh.
Kristin: Then there’s like a line of pledges that go by without shirts on
Jenny: Oh yep, yeah.
Kristin: Then there’s somebody who’s like "do you wanna join this rally?" then somebody’s like "do you have Jesus in your life?" then she gets invited to a frat party. And—
Jenny: Mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm.
Kristin: Yeah, it’s just, here’s where the kudos go, is to really capturing every element of like, this is what I remember going to college being like. Walking onto campus and being hit by all angles of all of these elements.
Jenny: There was a Greek presence on your campus?
Kristin: There sure—oh yeah!
Jenny: Oh.
Kristin: You know I participated in the Greek element.
Jenny: Oh right! I forgot how many frat parties you’ve been to, right of course.
Kristin: Yeah I was not part of a sorority but I was almost a part of a fraternity, you know what I mean? [Jenny laughing] I loved to go to a frat party in my stretch black pants with the flare leg and a little pair of chunky
heelsJenny: [making disgusted noises]
Kristin: And a tight tank top.
Jenny: No!
Kristin: Drinking some punch ‘til I went home and threw it all up.
Jenny: Gross.
Kristin: College was great. I said that sarcastically.
Jenny: Ummmmmm.
Kristin: I mean it was. It was great. But also, please, I would never drink a glass of punch from a frat party. You could not pay me enough money to drink whatever the hell was in that punch.
Jenny: Mmmmm.
Kristin: It’s just bad.
Kristin: Speaking of drinking and frat parties.
Jenny: Um, free jello shots for freshmen women? Gross.
Kristin: Fuck—what does that sound like to you Jenny?
Jenny: Uh…
NOTES: [the patriarchy jingle]
Kristin: You have gotten a lot better as the seasons have gone on at introlike transitioning into the jingle. [Jenny laughing] I also want everybody at home to know that normally when we put the jingle in we don’t hear it, like
we’re taping and Jenny justJenny: We just pause, and then I drop the file in and we know what it
sounds like so we don’t listen to it. But just nowKristin: Just now.
Jenny: I played it for us so that we could get into the spirit!
Kristin: Yeah, so we, we heard it with you for the first time just now, for season 4.
Jenny: Hell. Yes.
Kristin: Yeah, so that’s fucked up and stupid just like everything within the patriarchy is.
Jenny: And really gross, and don’t, ugh, it’s so bad.
Kristin: But also, remember jello shots?
Jenny: Ew. Barely.
Kristin: Really, barely? Jello shots were like such a magnificent and giant part of my—
Jenny: Okay, we didn’t have a greek culture of any kind at my school.
Kristin: Oh right, cause Jenny- so Jenny went to SUNY Purchase and I went to SUNY Binghamton.
Jenny: Yeah, and Suny Purchase I think still doesn’t have frats, although I remember there was some petitioning to like start a frat shortly after I left. But it’s such a, or was such a, you know, freaky crunchy art school, that like, I don’t think that’s a thing?
Kristin: Yeah. Purchase is a lot smaller than Binghamton too, right?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Binghamton is like ten thousand students or something.
Jenny: I’d say we were like half the size.
Kristin: Yeah, so we had all of the things.
Jenny: And I think art kids don’t have time to sit around and make jello shots?
Kristin: [laughing] Really? I feel like that’s exactly a thing an art kid would—
Jenny: No! they’re like, get me drunk faster!
Kristin: Oh I see.
Jenny: You know what I mean? Like, no waiting? Two slayers no waiting?
Kristin: [laughing] Yeah, well, there were a lot of jello shots in my life. In college and after college. Even after I was out of college, parties would have jello shots, we would make jello shots.
Jenny: So involved.
Kristin: I—how many times have I said jello shots since I started talking about—
Jenny: Like forty.
Kristin: A lot of times.
Jenny: I think.
Kristin: Moving along from alcohol in a solid state.
Jenny: Into thrusting and spurting!
Kristin: Yes! Can we hear this Willow monologue?
Jenny: Oh, god! Yeah, please.
Kristin: It’s pretty good so, here’s Willow talking about how excited she is about college.
NOTES: [clip from Buffy]
Willow: it’s just in high school, knowledge was pretty much frowned upon. You really had to work to learn anything. But here, the energy! The, the collective intelligence! It’s like this force! This penetrating force! And I can just feel my mind opening up, you know? And letting this place just thrust into and spurt knowledge into—that sentence ended up in a different place than it started out in.
NOTES: [end clip]
Jenny: Willow, get a grip!
Kristin: [laughing] Willow’s like, short hair, don’t care. Thrust, thrust, spurt.
Jenny: [laughing] Ew! no! no thank you.
Kristin: I mean let’s, let’s not forget that our Willow has just started having sex.
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: She just started having sex at the end of her senior year, which means guess what her summer was?
Jenny: The summer of fuck?
Kristin: It was the summer of—I was not gonna say that, but yes, Jenny,
the su-Jenny: I’m sorry, was it okay?
Kristin: [laughing] Yeah.
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: Yeah, it was Willow’s summer of fuck, so like, you know.
Jenny: Aw!
Kristin: It’s what she’s got on her mind! Buffy is confused and lost and
turned around. She’s overwhelmed. And nobody else really seems to beJenny: Yeah, they’re just like going with the flow. Oz has been to the campus a million times cause of his band. Willow’s just excited to like be able to learn without having to like feel shame about wanting to learn
Kristin: [laughing] Yeah, but Buffy’s just like, where is this thing? Where is this other thing?
Jenny: Xander’s not around.
Kristin: Right. So they go up to the library and that’s like this second piece of Buffy’s undoing, it’s like, this isn’t my home.
Jenny: Right, this isn’t my regular library.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: This one’s real big!
Kristin: It really is a very big and beautiful library.
Jenny: My library was not majestic, but it was homey.
Kristin: Yeah my library at Binghamton, I don’t even remember it. I was recently talking to a friend of mine who went to college with me and we were trying to remember what the library looked like and could not recall, so. But you know what I do remember?
Jenny: [whispering]What do you remember?
Kristin: [whispering] The bookstore.
Jenny: Oh yeah!
Kristin: The book—so, college bookstore, this is like still within the montage for me.
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: Your bookstore was like, a place. It’s like, first of all, the comment about books being really expensive—super on the nose. What the fuck college bookstores?
Jenny: [agreeing] Come on!
Kristin: And just like, academic books in general? I have a very big problem with how expensive academic books cost.
Jenny: Prohibitively expensive.
Kristin: Yes, it is! You know, I don’t know if you know this, but when things—
Jenny: [sarcastic] Well Kristin, I think only people above a certain- whose
family is above a certain median income should be able to like learn andKristin: [sarcastic] You’re right. Well, that makes sense, because it’s really
only people who are really smart who have money, soJenny: [sarcastic] That’s definitely how it works! Mhmm, yeah!
Kristin: [sarcastic] You wanna keep the—right, of course, so I’m-Jenny: [sarcastic] Just perpetuate that struggle!
Kristin: [sarcastic] Yes! Of course!
Jenny: Gross.
Kristin: [laughing] Welcome to season 4 everybody!
Jenny: Yeah, we’ve turned!
Kristin: Speaking of things that make me go ugh, Buffy reaches for some books [Jenny laughing], knocks them off the shelf into what I wrote down in my notes as "beefcake Riley".
Jenny: "beefcake Riley!" it’s like somebody left Angel out in the sun—non-vampire Angel out in the sun, for about two long beach summers, he’s fully bleached and tanned. And look at him go!
Kristin: Out popped riley. So, whatever, who knows? This might be Riley’s only episode. Who knows! But I will say that I posted something on twitter about a month, three weeks, before this season went live about my opinions on Riley, and it might be one of my most viral tweets of all time.
Jenny: [laughing] Most viral tweets of all time.
Kristin: It had like ninety-six comments on it on all platforms. There were hundreds of people weighing in about their feelings about Riley. So you know, we’ll just see what happens!
Jenny: So far in this episode, all he’s done is be like tall and handsome, and
niceKristin: Yeah.
Jenny: -if not maybe necessarily giving Buffy enough attention.
Kristin: Sure. I will say right off the bat Riley is not my type. And I don’t mean—
Jenny: [sarcastic] Oh, really?
Kristin: [laughing] –I don’t mean because he’s a beefcake, I just mean, I dunno, he’s just not- he’s very like clean-cut, and polite and whatever.
Jenny: He definitely has flossed every single day of his life.
Kristin: You—I mean, you all know here that one of my favorite characters is Spike, so... [laughing]
Jenny: Yeah he’s definitely the polar opposite of Spike.
Kristin: He’s the opposite of Spike.
Jenny: I myself am inclined towards hunks? Uh, and beefcakes.
Kristin: Yes, as a matter of fact I’m sitting right next to a postcard of hunks that you have here in your studio.
Jenny: Yeah, because I wanna be able to look at them all the time.
Kristin: And we know how you feel about Xander in a speedo.
Jenny: Let’s—we’ll get to that later actually.
Kristin: Will we?!
Jenny: A little bit.
Kristin: Wow!
Jenny: So yeah. Riley’s totally just a innocuous handsome wallpaper.
Kristin: Yeah! I kind of agree. And I have negative feelings about that.
Anyway then we goJenny: [laughing]
Kristin: To the dorm room. And we meet Kathy. Yes, Kathy. So first of all, this is the nicest dorm room I’ve ever seen in my life, and they do comment
on it, but likeJenny: Yeah, but it’s like definitely like the "Friends" apartment of dorm rooms. It’s like 3 times larger than it should be, they have like a full size fridge, right?
Kristin: Yeah, they have like beautiful desks and a closet with a door that opens, and a headboard on their bed.
Jenny: Un. Believable.
Kristin: My freshmen dorm room, I was tripled in a double. So I had two roommates in a space that was designed for two. And by designed for two I mean designed for two college students who you don’t care about so you cram them into a space.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: So it was a metal bunk bed and a metal frame with the twin bed in an L shape in the back of the room. And then there were two shitty, shitty desks, and two closets without doors, just gaping holes, and two dressers, and that was it! And then we decorated with a trampoline, and a—
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: A traffic cone, cause, you know.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: Beautiful, very high taste.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: High class taste for my dorm room décor. And SUNY Binghamton is a good school—it’s not even like—you know what I mean? Like, SUNY Binghamton is a great school, but college dorm rooms just don’t look like this.
Jenny: Yeah. They don’t look like this at all.
Kristin: What did your dorm room look like?
Jenny: Well, okay, so I lived—my freshmen year I lived off-campus. I moved to an off-campus apartment with my [intentionally muffled] girlfriend.
Kristin: Oh yeah!! Cause you were dating an older lady!
Jenny: Listen! So we moved to an apartment, and it was fine, and whatever. But when I did move onto campus the next year, [intentionally muffled] cause we broke up
Kristin: [laughing]
Jenny: I moved into a building that had just been built, additional dorms had just been built. So it was like, I mean it was a cement room, it was just a cement rectangle.
Kristin: Sounds about right.
Jenny: Yeah, just functional, but nothing like this. Kinda like it had an "Orange is the New Black" feel to it?
Kristin: [laughing] The prison feel?
Jenny: Well like, just that what do they call it? camp or something? Like,
the particular type of confinement that they’re in where it’s sorta likeKristin: Like beds sort of just in a row, and yeah.
Jenny: Yeah. Or across from each other in a little two-person block. But if the walls went all the way up. Anyway.
Kristin: Yes. Yes. That.
Jenny: So we meet Kathy, and we get a load of her kath-ive aggression, her Kathy pa—
Kristin: [drawn out] Wooooooow.
Jenny: Her passive kath-gression.
Kristin: Kath-ive aggression?! Is great Jenny, that’s great.
Jenny: Thank you!
Kristin: Yeah, we get a load of her kath-ive aggression and we also get a load—
Jenny: [excitedly] Of her Celine Dion poster!
NOTES: [both laughing]
Kristin: let’s just, let’s just take a minute, Jenny, let’s just get us all there for just one second.
NOTES: [Clip plays of Celine Dion -- It’s All Coming Back to Me Now] There were nights when the wind was so cold That my body froze in bed If I just listened to it right outside the window
NOTES: [music fades out as Jenny starts talking]
Jenny: French Canada’s national sweetheartKristin: Oh wow, we have a lot of feelings for Celine Dion in this household.
Jenny: Love Celine Dion, we’re in the middle of the Dion-assance, it’s fucking real.
Kristin: I was gonna say love Celine Dion in 1999, love Celine Dion in whatever the hell she’s doing right now in 2018. But yeah, Kathy, huge fan and she says- what does she say? That she’s super fun, she’s a super fun girl.
Jenny: She just knows it’s gonna be super fun I feel like and that’s when the Celine poster drops.
Kristin: Classic, and then there’s this scene as they fall asleep where
Kathy’s making mouth noises. Going to college is a lotJenny: You have to cohabitate with somebody that you’re not in a family with or whatever.
Kristin: Right and so I do think that a lot of people suffer from passive aggression in college.
Jenny: Oh yeah, that’s where you really can foster your passive aggression.
Kristin: Yeah because you don’t have the tools to say- you don’t know how to talk to somebody in that situation.
Jenny: Actually my roommate my sophomore year, the first time I had a roommate in college, wow it was amazing, I would come home and she
would be listening to music, she would have a TV show onKristin: Oh god.
Jenny: She would be typing a paper on her computer and everything that could be happening was happening. And then she would be like "is this bothering you" and I would be like "...no" but in my head I would be like how could anyone [Kristin laughs] coexist with everything that’s going on
right now. She also would have a book open next to herKristin: Oh my god!
Jenny: Yeah, actually I’m like wow, did Wendy have powers?
Kristin: Wendy are you listening, you’re being called out for your- actually I
guess you’re being called out JennyJenny: For my inability to communicate that- whatever.
Kristin: Right, that every single thing playing at once wasJenny: Was too much for me.
Kristin: A little too much. [laughs] Okay so we’ve established having a roommate is hard, transitioning into college is hard. I mean did you have a hard time when you went to college? Did you have a transition, I kind of didn't.
Jenny: You were just fine? Yeah, cause you had two cool roommates and you guys were thick as thieves right away. I was living off campus so I was kind of [detached] It was hard for me to integrate. And also I was fresh out of high school so my way of letting somebody know that I thought they were cool, which is something that I did to our friend Bess Rogers a lot, is I would walk by her in the hallway and smile at her really sarcastically and give her two middle fingers and be like "Hi bess!" And she would be like "Hi?". [Kristin laughs] And that went on for like a year or two and then we became best friends and now we’re still best friends!
Kristin: So it worked!
Jenny: [laughs] It worked, yeah the long con.
Kristin: So if you’re listening out there, if you’re a freshman in college you
just take the Jenny routeJenny: Don’t take the Jenny route.
Kristin: You know, I have to say to you, you haven’t come that farJenny: How… dare you!
Kristin: You still kind of do thatJenny: I… have become such a genuine, warm, sweet, earnest, gentle, loving soul.
Kristin: You are all of those things but you still definitely smile sarcastically and give middle fingers to people you like.
Jenny: Yeah okay.
Kristin: Okay so we to class, American Culture classJenny: This… shitbag!
Kristin: Yo, here’s the thing, I knowJenny: This guy would be fired.
Kristin: Right? But would he in 1999? There were some- I don’t know…
Jenny: Well, when I think back on what some professors I had did and didn’t get fired for this pales in comparison.
Kristin: Yeah, right? That’s what I’m saying.
Jenny: But this is overt, what’s a little sexual harassment behind closed doors compared to in front of 200 people.
Kristin: Fine, but the thing is that I think there are a lot more freshman in college now that would sit there and be like "I have authority and I have power" And I will tell you what I do not think a lot of us in 1999, 1998, whatever, 2000 for Jenny, were aware of the fact that we had that
autonomy toJenny: The youth are deeply empowered.
Kristin: Yes and it’s not that we weren’t empowered at all it’s just that as a freshman you’re overwhelmed. You don’t know, maybe this is just how college is and it really takes somebody to say hey you don’t have to stand for this to get that ball rolling.
Jenny: Yeah, college kids now would be like callout post, absolutely.
Kristin: Right? But this guy "a blonde girl"
Jenny: No, no, no.
Kristin: Jenny I know we’re just starting the season and usually we play the jingle once but fuck this guy, play it again!
NOTES: [The patriarchy jingle plays]
Jenny: Yeah, this guy sucks!
Kristin: Yeah, he’s the worst. And of course as much as he’sJenny: Also he’s like "the point of this class is not to blah the point of this class is not to blah the point of this class is not to blah" he says like every option of what the point of this class could be, then he said, "the point of this class is actually-" And then you like can’t hear him talk cause Buffy’s dialogue is louder than it but there’s nothing that he could be saying that would make any sense cause he already eliminated every possibility.
Kristin: "The point of this class is for me to be a horrible asshole for the whole semester, you all suck" I suck the most, the end. Anyway then we goso now Buffy’s on her way to psych class and she’s walking with Riley.
Jenny: Who’s got his next to bottom button buttoned on his buttoned down shirt only!
Kristin: Yeah and this reminded me about what you said about him that he’s like an Angel left out in the sun and also an Angel who wears an under-shirt underneath his shirt
Jenny: Ooo yeah!
Kristin: So he still can’t figure out the buttons, he’s still like "oops" but underneath there's a t-shirt instead of a bare vampire chest.
Jenny: [laughs] If Xan- If Xander, oh my god. if Angel had only one button buttoned it would be like the third one down
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Not the second one up.
Kristin: Also the shirt would be made of silk or velvet.
Jenny: Ab-solutly.
Kristin: You know, there’s a couple differences here, a few, a little less brooding happening from old Riley.
Jenny: Yeah, Yeah, Yeah. And so Buffy who has been totally uncool around Riley is like [in a squeaky voice "hi"] and he’s like oh you’re Willows friend! BURN!!
Kristin: Well because Willow- what we didn’t talk about before is that Willow and Riley really had a connection in the bookstore.
Jenny: Right an academic connection.
Kristin: Yes, and Buffy’s like "what is this shit? An academic connection?"
Jenny: I’m blonde!
Kristin: [laughs]
Jenny: Also how do you forget the name Buffy?
Kristin: Yeah, solid point, so here’s something you won’t forget, Professor Walsh.
Jenny: Wow, she’s so intense.
Kristin: You can call me Maggie or you can call me what my TA’s call me behind my back that they think I don’t know "The evil bitch monster of death"
Jenny: That is so extreme.
Kristin: I wanna tell you what, two thumbs up for Maggie out the gates.
Jenny: Yeah, I mean what does she have the room bugged or…
Kristin: Here’s the thing, taking this episode [at] face value we have this asshole dude professor who’s like "a blond girl" fucking callout machine, I hate him. But then we have this female professor, this woman, and she’s strong and she is the kind of bitch I like, you know what I mean?
Jenny: Is that right?
Kristin: She’s hard edges and she’s setting expectations very firmly and I feel like- listen if you’re a college professor, an undergrad professor and you listened you can let us know if this is true or false but I feel like probably when you have freshmen coming into your class for the first time, they’re right out of high school. Probably one of the best tactics to take is to be like "I don’t take shit, this is what I expect from you" and whatever because it is hard to be a freshman, you’re used to a lot of structure, you now have very little structure. So I’m just saying Maggie, I like you so far.
Jenny: The only thing that she says that I don’t like is "if you’re looking to coast take Geology 101 that’s where the football players are" Rude! Some football players are also academically inclined.
Kristin: That’s true, and we’re not gonna play the jingle a third damn time
but you know what that’s a product of Jenny, isJenny: Wow, it’s a little men being victimized by the patriarchy as well.
Kristin: I mean listen, it happens. That shit happens.
Jenny: Okay so, [panting] guess what time it is? Ahhhh! Guess what time it is?
Kristin: From the sound of you it’s like Faith must be arriving but I know that doesn’t happen.
Jenny: It’s the other Faith.
Kristin: The other Faith? Go on…
Jenny: It’s Eddie, aka Pedro Pascal, aka Oberyn Martell, the Viper of Dorne, holy fuck, here he is at 24 years old looking soooooo cute and sweet.
Kristin: [laughs]
Jenny: And also not very far off from how he looks now at the age of 43 or whatever. Ahhh! He’s so cute, I love him.
Kristin: He is so cute, I really can’t get behind you calling him "the other
Faith" though. I think that’s taking it a littleJenny: I mean think about Oberyn Martell for two secondsKristin: Yeah, great I’m sorry not the other Faith.
Jenny: Hell yeah, bisexual icon?
Kristin: [laughs] Okay, fair, fair, you make a solid case. So we learn that Eddie- Eddie and Buffy have a really nice exchange here, he’s the first person that’s kind of on her level, lost at campus you know? And they talk
about their security blanketsJenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: Yes Jenny?
Jenny: [laughs mischievously] He’s like "Of Human Bondage" and she’s like "I’m not really into porn".
Kristin: I know! which I kind of was into. I was like Buffy really held her own thinking this guy was like "oh, this porn book" and she was like "you know I’m not into it man, but A+ for you".
Jenny: I love it.
Kristin: She was really sex positive in that moment and I liked it. But right Of Human Bondage is just a book, it’s ranked number 66 among the hundred top American classics. I don’t even know, I’m making up things but I looked it up and I thought I would find a plotline where a person gets
trappedJenny: Kristin fell asleep reading the synopsis.
Kristin: I did, I literally- I was bored reading the description.
Jenny: It’s like "a man has a journey".
Kristin: So then sweet old Eddie turns the corner, parts waysJenny: And he’s looking like "ah, I really like that girl"
Kristin: Yes, and she really likes him!
Jenny: So cute! But oh no, he has to die, sorry.
Kristin: He has to die because welcome to Sunday.
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: Let me tell you what, I like a lot of different monster of the weeks, you know they’re great, I’m gonna say that Sunday might be one of my
favorites because I find her very attractive. Sunday is my type, especiallyJenny: Wooooooaaaaaooooooow.
Kristin: Especially my 1999 type.
Jenny: Sure.
Kristin: Like way- also for those of you who are super gay or just like good movies you may know that the actress playing Sunday Katharine Towne is also in But I’m a Cheerleader, she plays the character who has the dark, dark black hair and the dark eyeliner who’s also one of my favorites. So I love her, I tried to get us an interview with her but it didn’t pan out. But if you’re out there Katharine, listening, love you. I love you as Sunday etcetera, etcetera. Before we get to talking about all of Sunday’s shenanigans which I love so much, let’s just hear about a couple of our sponsors.
NOTES: [ad break music starts]
Jenny: Today’s episode is brought to you by Kneipp. Kneipp is the plant based solution to self care, they’ve been creating plant based vegan products for the last oh… 125 years, almost as long as Angel’s been alive. Kneipp products are dermatologist tested and recommended, cruelty free, paraben free and they don’t contain any preservatives, parafins or silicone. All products are processed gently and tested comprehensively to ensure optimal effectiveness and skin tolerance. Kneipp was awarded the green brand seal for the third time in 2017 as recognition for their environmentally sound production practices and their strong commitment to sustainability. They make a whole bunch of stuff like mineral bath salts, herbal bath pillows, foot care and more. They sent us some stuff to try out and let me tell you what about this shower foam that is scented with white hibiscus and shea butter, it is so delightful, does exactly what you want shower foam to do. Also the passionfruit and grapefruit scented body wash is soooo dare I say succulent? It’s really, really, really nice. If you wanna find out what their stuff is all about you can get fifteen percent off your first order now. Go to kneipp.com and use promo code Buffy at checkout. That’s k-n-e-i-p-p.com and promo code Buffy for fifteen percent off your first order.
Jenny: Today’s episode is also brought to you by Care Of. Even when you try to maintain a healthy diet it can be hard to get all the nutrients your body needs for long term health. Care Of is a monthly subscription vitamin service made from effective quality ingredients that are personally tailored to your exact needs. All you gotta do is take their fun online quiz which asks you about your diet and health goals and lifestyle choices. They make it really easy to figure out what vitamins and supplements you specifically need in just a few minutes. No worrying about replacing multiple bottles when you run out because your subscription box includes a thirty day supply of individually wrapped packets for easy grab and go all for about twenty percent less than similar brands at local drug and health food stores. I’m not the world’s most spectacularly organized person so being a Care Of subscriber has really helped me out. You know I’m taking my vitamins more regularly. I’m reading the fun quotes or inspirational medication thoughts that are printed on the packages. Also every package says "Hello Jennifer" which makes me feel seen. For twenty five percent off your first month of personalized Care Of vitamins visit takecareof.com and enter the code Buffering. That’s takecareof.com and enter the code Buffering for twenty five percent off your first month of personalized vitamins, yeah!
Jenny: Support for today’s show comes from Hello Fresh. Hello Fresh is a meal kit delivery service that shops, plans and delivers your favorite step by step recipes and pre measured ingredients so you can just cook, eat and enjoy. Hello Fresh has a variety of plans you can choose from including the Classic, the Veggie [and] the Family. Each box is delivered right to your door in recyclable insulated packaging and made up of fresh responsibly obtained ingredients from carefully selected farms and high rated trusted sources. Plus with the simple recipes outlined on pictured step by step instruction cards you can feel confident in your cooking. There are even lots of one pot recipes that require minimal cleanup so you can spend less time meal planning and grocery shopping each week and get that time back to do more of what you love. Kristin was away at A-Camp last week so I was left to my own culinary devices. So thank heavens a box from Hello Fresh arrived including but not limited to the ingredients and recipe for their amazing apricot chicken with fingerling potatoes and green beans. Wow it was so delicious, it was so easy to make, it took thirty five minutes. I had a blast making it, Sam watched and eventually stuck her snout in the apricot sauce unfortunately but that’s not the issue here. The point is the food was great and it was so fun and easy to make. For thirty dollars off your first week of Hello Fresh visit hellofresh.com/buffering30 and enter the code buffering30. That’s hellofresh.com/buffering30 and offer code buffering30 for thirty dollars off your first week of Hello Fresh.
NOTES: [Ad break music ends]
Jenny: O… kay.
Kristin: Okay so they take everything out of Eddie’s room including a boom box that I had where the speakers hook onto the sides of the fucking- you know what I mean? They take all of Eddie’s shit out of his room and Buffy putting on a detective cap because we are missing who Jenny? Who’s not in this episode? our true detective.
NOTES: [Detective Angel jingle plays]
Jenny and Kristin: [laughing]
Kristin: Yes, yes we’re missing out detective Angel though perhaps tune into next week’s episode of Angel on Top where we’ll get a whole face full of detective Angel.
Jenny: Facefull. [laughs]
Kristin: Yeah that’s what I said.
Jenny: Yikes!
Kristin: Anyway, no trench coat for Buffy, no little black beanie for her, no glasses but she is like "I don’t see him in class, I’m gonna go to his room. Hmm all of his things are gone there’s a note here, this is weird" but then his security blanket Of Human Bondage is still in the drawer.
Jenny: Also this RA fucker with his clipboard "I don’t know the weak ones get weeded out".
Kristin: [laughs] I mean he is correct the weak ones do get weeded out it’s
justJenny: It’s just by vampires, sure.
Kristin: By vampires. So we go into the vampire den.
Jenny: Yo.
Kristin: Yeah?
Jenny: Can I talk about my favorite thing?
Kristin: Please.
Jenny: The Monet versus Klimt. [laughs]
Kristin: Oh my god, it’s so good. Did you have a Monet or a Klimt?
Jenny: I did not.
Kristin: I had a Van Gogh.
Jenny: Ooooh.
Kristin: Right? Isn’t that Starry Night?
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: Yeah, this is so on point, like everybody- my first girlfriend had a Klimt, The Kiss.
Jenny: Really?
Kristin: Yep, Brandy rocked out with a Klimt. And I definitely had people who had the Monet stuff as well but there were a lot of Starry Nights.
Jenny: Woooooow, this is wild. Maybe they just sold it in the bookstore or whatever.
Kristin: Yeah they sold it and at Bed Bath & Beyond they were selling em pre-framed.
Jenny: I think I had a Kandinsky?
Kristin: Oh excuse us, I’m so sorry.
Jenny: Which just came from Ikea or something and I was like art! But the piece of classical art that I had that I actually had a real connection to was a print of this massive 8 by 8 Joan of Arc painting that’s at the Metropolitan Museum of art. The artists name is escaping me but it’s probably French and
it’s very beautiful but thenKristin: That’s nice, that’s pretty gay of you too Jenny.
Jenny: Well it was, yeah, Joan of Arc and then a lot of Britney Spears, Christina Aguilera and Avril Lavigne posters.
Kristin: Yessss! So if we’re gonna go there, let’s go there-
Jenny: Let’s do it!
Kristin: Cause Starry Night came later for me, I didn’t have it as a freshman, I did have it later on. My freshman year wall, my roommates
called the wall of girl andJenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: And it was literally a wall covered in girls, there was a picture of Liv Tyler smoking a cigar, there was a giant poster of Tori Amos. The one where she’s wearing a ringer tee and there’s bright greens and reds in it. Do you
know what I’m talking about? It’s like a Johnson & Johnson t-shirt or someJenny: Hmmm that sounds familiar.
Kristin: Then I had a giant poster of Ani DiFranco, I had a giant poster of Rent, so there were more than just girls on that but yeah and then I had a lot of smaller pictures of girls that I didn’t know who they were. They were just girls I liked and I want everybody to know that I did not come out for several months into college, it took me a couple of months so I really think I left enough clues on my wall.
Jenny: Yeah clear- detective Angel could have put it together.
Kristin: Yeah, even detective Angel could have put that one together.
NOTES: [laughs]
Jenny: Listen, just in the interest of credit where credit is due the painter who is responsible for that Joan of Arc painting mmm well if I was a person who didn’t speak French I would say Jules Bastien LePage but it’s probably like [whispers] Bastien Lepage or some shit. I don’t know! Something French!
Kristin: [laughs] So there’s some fat shaming that happens in this scene and in a later scene.
Jenny: Oh god why!
Kristin: Right? There’s this scene, it’s Sunday totally fat shaming this other vampire and then later it’s Buffy up on the window thing being like "She’s never gonna fit into those pants with those hips"
Jenny: Fuck… that.
Kristin: Yeah. come on everybody, I mean authentic to the 90s and also now. This certainly is a thing that happens but come on responsable show runners, let’s not fucking do this shit for no reason, thanks!
Jenny: You know what we can do for no reason?
Kristin: What can we do for no reason?
Jenny: OLIVIA!
Kristin: You’re right, we can all do Olivia for no reason.
Jenny: No, I mean we can just talk- I mean… [sighs] it all came out wrong I just love her and I love fucking bachelor pad Giles.
Kristin: This is amazing, this is setting a tone. I know we don’t get ahead of ourselves too much in this series but I just wanna say this is really setting a tone.
Jenny: Yeah, what’s up with Giles?
Kristin: Giles doesn’t have the library anymore… [Jenny laughs] he’s
spending a lot of time at his house and the first bit we get of himJenny: Yeah okay so Buffy just strolls in and Olivia is there in ostensibly Giles shirt except it’s not big enough to be Giles shirt but it’s not small enough to be Olivia’s shirt.
Kristin: Yeah I feel like they made a bad call, the costumers, on that.
Jenny: Well I think that’s just what they do when- oh my god remember when Angel gave Buffy "his jacket"? They just have to make it look not stupid on- you know she’d be swimming in it.
Kristin: I’m sorry but a fucking lady in a giant button down shirt is so sexy.
Jenny: Okay, I’m not here to argue with you about that but I am here to argue with the idea of what maybe somebody doing wardrobe would think.
Kristin: Fine.
Jenny: Okay whatever, so then Giles rolls around the corner in his bathrobe! That’s made of velour or something.
Kristin: Seriously a fucking vinyl record is playing, he’s in his robe and he’s
sharing a glass of whiskeyJenny: Scotch, it’s definitely scotch.
Kristin: Oh I’m sorry, it’s Giles so it’s scotch- with Olivia. This is great.
Jenny: Okay so it’s super sick when she’s like remember before when you weren’t Hugh Hefner.
Kristin: Do you think that Joyce is jealous? Do you think if Joyce knew she would be jealous?
Jenny: Joyce is too busy taking inventory at the gallery- they’ll never- they never had a real chance.
Kristin: [gasps] Wow!
Jenny: No, I mean I love them both but they’re not right for each other.
Kristin: Why not?
Jenny: Well, I think Giles has inherent Ripper qualities to him and I think Joyce is too pure.
Kristin: Are you saying that Joyce and Giles were good together when they were in high school because Joyce was more carefree?
Jenny: Oooh, yeah!
Kristin: And now Joyce is likeJenny: I mean they’re both responsible adults now but I just feel like it never would have worked.
Kristin: Okay, alright fine. It’s working for Olivia.
Jenny: And listen, this pairing- ideal.
Kristin: "Couldn’t pass through town without looking up ol’ Ripper" she says to a mortified Buffy.
Jenny: [motorcycle revving sound] Okay so I just wanna pull this apart for one second. A lot of ageism happening here but I feel like the line is blurry between your parents having sex which is essentially what’s going on here and ageism. Nobody wants to think about their parents having sex and maybe that’s a product of our sort of puritanical western society, whatever the fuck but… I still don’t wanna think about it.
Kristin: Generally speaking- cause you’re right this is totally ageist when Buffy’s like "you’re very old and it’s gross" but even beyond it being your dad or your parent when you’re 16, 17, 18 and you’re just starting to have
sex for the first time it really isJenny: You think you have discovered it. Look what I invented.
Kristin: Yes, and you cannot imagine older people doing the things you are doing.
Jenny: They wouldn’t get it.
Kristin: I know that is ageist but there’s something a little more to it, there’s a little more texture to it than just flat out ageism. And the important part of this scene, I mean sorry, the second important part of this scene, because Olivia and Giles is very important. Is that Buffy is like "Giles I need your help" and Giles is like "you have to do this on your own" and we find out later of course that he’s doing this intentionally, he’s trying to teach her self-reliance.
Jenny: Right, right but what it does is just further intensify her feelings of being a fish out of water and not knowing what the hell to do with herself or who she is anymore in this new context without her people.
Kristin: Totally. So she leaves dejected, she goes back to campus and all of her shit is out of her room.
Jenny: Right, right and then she’s out in the grass and she’s like isn’t that the [whispers] viper of dorne in that windbreaker?
Kristin: [laughs] And she’s like of course cause this is Buffy’s ongoing narrative is she makes a connection and then that person dies or turns into
a vampire or both. And she’s like fuck and then she stakes EddieJenny: In record time.
Kristin: Yes, and behind her stands Sunday in this stance that if you missed it go back to it cause she’s like standing up above Buffy and her hand is on her hip and she is just as sassy as sassy can be is all I’m gonna say.
Jenny: You guys I know this isn’t what we’re talking about anymore but Oberyn Martell is nicknamed the red viper and I just wanna correct retroactively myself, sorry.
Kristin: Got it, Joanna Robinson is listening.
Jenny: Don’t listen Joanna!
Kristin: [laughs] But yeah, so they fight, Sunday distracts Buffy by saying her outfit is stupid because that’s what this whole episode is, it’s just people calling each other fat and telling them their clothes aren’t good enough. College!
Jenny: Hooray!
Kristin: And Buffy runs away with an injured arm.
Jenny: And she even falls, it’s very blond girl horror movie.
Kristin: She is, so I think one of the first episodes where we talked about this was The Puppet Show in season one where we’re used to seeing Buffy in
control of herselfJenny: But when there is an animated fucking ventriloquist dummyKristin: Right, or college!
Jenny: The two great terrors of life.
Kristin: Yes, or heartbreak.
Jenny: Aww.
Kristin: Those are the ways so far we’ve really lost Buffy.
Jenny: You either run or you put on your overalls of sadness.
Kristin: Maybe she’s running to her overalls of sadness Jenny.
Jenny: Possibly.
Kristin: Sunday ends this scene with a great "freshman" line.
Jenny: Oh god.
Kristin: [laughs] So then we go to mom’s house, mom! Which really is important for two reasons.
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: Go ahead Jenny you were gonnaJenny: No, please, please.
Kristin: I was just gonna say, one is her room is full of crates.
Jenny: Buffy doesn’t belong anywhere!
Kristin: Okay so your room when you went to college, how long did it stay your room for?
Jenny: I think it stayed my roomKristin: You’re like "it’s still there".
Jenny: Oh my god, no I think cause I would go home for the summers and I think it just stayed my room but maybe they redecorated it, repainted it, I don’t really remember.
Kristin: I think I kept my room for freshman and sophomore year and I think then I moved to New York City and my parents were like okay and my sister moved into my room and they turned the other room into the guest room and that was it for me. No room for Kristin but that’s a traumatic thing when your room is gone.
Jenny: Yeah, it’s wild.
Kristin: Then you know you’re really out there, you’re really on your own.
Jenny: Yeah, I think the thing about watching The Family Stone every christmas that makes me the most like uhh… is that all these adult children each have their individual rooms just as they left them.
Kristin: Yeah, it is nice. I’d still love to have a room in my house.
Jeny: Right?
Kristin: With all my old chotchkies in it.
Jenny: Yeah, a little time capsule.
Kristin: The other important thing in this scene- well I don’t know actually if it’s important, it seems important, is that the phone rings.
Jenny: It’s interesting, she picks up the phone and there’s nobody there. And then it never- hmm who could that be?
Kristin: I don’t know. Let’s put a pin in it.
Jenny: Yeah, let’s just come back to that if it ever becomes relevant.
Kristin: Now off to the Bronze.
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: We go to the Bronze and who’s singing Jenny?
Jenny: That’s Angie Hart of course, formerly of Frente. Currently in this iteration it’s her new band Splendid.
Kristin: I love Frente so much.
Jenny: I also love Frente sooooooo much!
Kristin: Yes and there’s an Angel look-alike at the bar. That’s the credits, he’s credited in the IMDB listing as Angel look-alike.
Jenny: Oh the guy?
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: David Boreanaz is actually the first shot, he’s uncredited, that’s the side of his face and then when you see the second look, when he turns his face more it’s a different guy.
Kristin: I didn’t realize that.
Jenny: How bout that shit.
Kristin: Pretty cool. Speaking of men that Jenny may or may not be attracted to…
Jenny: Whaaaat!
Kristin: Who else is at the Bronze Jenny?
Jenny: Well, it’s Xander and you know that shit has gotta be going poorly for Buffy when I’m like "I’m so happy to see Xander".
Kristin: No, you know whatJenny: No it’s sweet, it’s sweet.
Kristin: I had the same moment and thought we obviously have a lot of things that we say about Xander but we’re in season four and Xander’s been with us since season one and for all of his shortcomings Xander is one of the fucking gang and it’s good to see him.
Jenny: It’s good to see him, good to be back Xander.
Kristin: Yeah, welcome back buddy.
Jenny: Especially because he’s got a hot, hot male strippers untold story that allows my mind to run wild thinking thoughts about his speedo and dollar bills in the waistband as he mentions later.
Kristin: Yes, we also get a little bit of information about what happened when Xander got home which was that he has been forced to move to the basement and pay rent which is you know, we’ve gathered little bits of Xander’s home life and this is just another one to add to the stack. Speaking of losing your room, not only did he lose his room but he has to pay rent. He literally just graduated from high school so that’s shitty.
Jenny: Yeaaaah.
Kristin: But then he makes Buffy feel so much better.
Jenny: He does and this is maybe arguably Xander’s superpower is that when his more powerful friends and allies are faltering and having weak moments he is almost always the person to lift them up and make them remember how powerful they are.
Kristin: Totally and he has some big lines here, first of all I do enjoy him saying that she looks like she has cancer of the puppy.
Jenny: That’s pretty funny, then he goes on his whole hate leads to anger whatever and Buffy makes this dadaism joke, which is so out of character. Earlier in the episode she was like I don’t wanna take a class about the novel
because reading booksKristin: I know, and then she’s like dadaism.
Jenny: I feel so abstract.
Kristin: This reminds me of our conversation from The Zeppo about the writers room when you can really just draw the line to where the writers are.
Jenny: A writer’s fin has poked up out of the water.
Kristin: [laughs] Exactly, but Xander has this line, first he says "you’re Buffy" and then he says "you know whenever I’m really losing it and i’m really struggling I think to myself what would Buffy do?"
Jenny: And he’s like "you’re my hero".
Kristin: Really nice, and we all get this wonderful moment with Xander that he follows with "although sometimes I think what is Buffy wearing" and I wrote come on man!
Jenny: No! Dude!
Kristin: Come on! We had this beautiful moment with you…
Jenny: Why you gotta do that?
Kristin: Xander is as Xander does you know, can’t just shake all the Xander off in one fell swoop. Swoop!
Jenny: Ah-hem!
Kristin: So anyway Xander is like "there’s a vampire? Let’s fucking go for it. Let’s get this shit".
Jenny: So nice! Somebody’s still on the team.
Kristin: Yeah, so they go off and they break into what we’ve decided is an admin building?
Jenny: Yeah, looks like the registration office or something, and they’re like clickity clickity clack.
Kristin: Yep, back to detective Buffy, 1982, key fact! and Xander has all these newspapers and they crack the case.
Jenny: Yeah, you know how they always store newspapers in the registration office.
Kristin: Yeah… what? So they figure out where this vamp den is and they go over to it and Buffy’s in the window and she’s like that’s my stuff! And
Xander goes off to find the gang and then of courseJenny: [sighs] why would you keep hanging out on the skylight… of a condemned building!
Kristin: I mean you can tell just by looking at her on that window that it’s gonna fall. Why would you put your whole body on a pane of glass? You tell me?
Jenny: I really don’t know, I can’t tell you cause I don’t know.
Kristin: So she goes crashing through and luckily it seems like that window was made of safety glass because there are no sharp pieces.
Jenny: Thank heavens.
Kristin: Thank god! [laughs] And then Buffy starts to fight but it’s not looking good. She falls on the bad arm, she says "you made one mistake" and Sunday’s like "what’s that?" and she’s like "I’m not sure".
Jenny: Well statistically people usually make at least one mistake.
Kristin: Xander gets back to the rest of the scoobies, hasn’t seen them.
Jenny: Right, right, right.
Kristin: Really the only important thing I think in this scene is Xander saying to Oz "do we hug?" and Oz saying "I think we’re too masculine for that".
Jenny: Yeah, too manly.
Kristin: It’s cute because you can tell they’re calling each other out for not being quote "manly".
Jenny: [laugh] Yeah.
Kristin: Cute boys is all I’m saying, cute boys being boys.
Jenny: Kathy is like "does Buffy has a history mental distress or something because I specifically requested a stable non-smoker".
Kristin: Yes, I don’t think you can requestJenny: Somebody stable?
Kristin: Somebody’s mental health in your request, Kathy! But anyway back to the vamp den.
Jenny: Sunday... steps… on the… class… protector award?!
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: No!
Kristin: And this activates Buffy.
Jenny: So activated.
Kristin: That’s all she [needed] and I’ll tell you what, we’re sitting in the
studio right now looking at our class protector awardJenny: Hell yes.
Kristin: And I will tell you if anybody stepped on that I would also kick their ass.
Jenny: I would un-dislocate my arm and then punch them in the face with it.
Kristin: Remember that time that Faith relocated her own arm?
Jenny: [revving sound] Yes, I do!
Kristin: Cool.
Jenny: Fuck yeah, she used Xander’s body to do it, hell yeah.
Kristin: Yep, great talk, anyway so thisJenny: Best use of Xander’s body 2018.
Kristin: [laughs] So this is an incredible fight scene, I think, between Sunday and Buffy.
Jenny: So great, really, and also the scene earlier before Buffy ran away was also great. Watching Sunday kick Buffy up the hood and windshield of a car, pretty tight.
Kristin: Yes, they must be getting a bigger budget for theirJenny: Fight choreography.
Kristin: Yeah, fight choreography and stunt people are getting better meals, they’re all ready to work. I don’t know, just making stuff up guys. But yeah Buffy’s fighting with a tennis racket and then we get the most gifed, this is the most gifed moment in the series I think.
Jenny: Unless the most gifed moment in the series is Faith breathing on the window and drawing a heart with a stake through it or if the most gifed moment is Faith and Buffy dancing at the Bronze!
Kristin: Those are the most gifed moments if you’re queer.
Jenny: Oh.
Kristin: But if you’re just a personJenny: Just a regular person.
Kristin: Yeah, if you’re just a regular person, if you’re non-queer I think
that theJenny: The stake spin.
Kristin: Rotation of the stake, when you type "Buffy" into Twitter gifs that’s the first one.
Jenny: Ohhh, hell yeah.
Kristin: It’s a very famous gif, also we’re always made fun of for how much we talk about gifs on the show.
Jenny: Are we?
Kristin: Joanna Robinson in particular.
Jenny: How dare you Joanna Robinson.
Kristin: She’s always like "you guys talk about gifs so much."
Jenny: It’s weird to talk about gifs, a purely visual medium.
Kristin: Right, on a podcast, so whatever. So Sunday gets staked and this is important mostly because how she is standing when she gets staked. She literally just has both of her hands on her hips and then she turns to dust. Love you Sunday.
Jenny: Your fave.
Kristin: I mean listen, got a thing for a goth girl what can I say?
Jenny: I know, soooo they’re leaving, they have all Buffy’s stuff that they’re carrying and who should show up… but work dad.
Kristin: Work dad with all of his weapons gathered in a rush.
Jenny: I know I was trying to teach you self reliance but it’s terrible and I love you and I can’t stand to think that you might be hurting or feeling neglected in any way, Buffy I love you, you are the perfect work daughter, how can I help? And Buffy’s like cool, thanks dad!
Kristin: And they all blow by him and then he’s like "the evil is this way?" So it’s a very cute ending and obviously I think the biggest arc is that Buffy started so low but by the end of the episode the gang is back together again.
Jenny: I mean I feel like they do this with the first episode of every season, they’ve spread and then they come back together but this feels really significant because it’s a major shift from high school to college and not everybody is having the same experience. Giles is now unemployed and he’s not a watcher in an official capacity anymore. Xander isn’t going to college, Buffy and Willow are going to college, Oz is also going to college but he stayed back a year but he also has played on campus a lot so he has a good foundation for being there.
Kristin: Yeah, and you know who we’re missing Jenny? we’re missing a scoobie and we didn’t talk about it at the end of the season last season I
don’t think but we’re missingJenny: Where’s Cordelia?
Kristin: We’re missing Cordelia so I don’t know if she’s gonna turn up but maybe she will, maybe she won’t. You should listen to next week’s episode of Angel on top but for now we’re gonna play Cordelia’s jingle because-
Jenny: We miss her.
Kristin: We miss her.
[Cordelia’s jingle plays: Cordelia ah-ah I love you Cordelia ah-ah You’re perfect Cordelia ah-ah]
Kristin: [sighs] Cordelia, Cordelia, I really hope we see you somewhere. Maybe you moved to Los Angeles, I don’t know.
Jenny: Anything is possible.
Kristin: Anything’s possible, wonder what’s up with our Cordy.
Jenny: So Xander and Buffy have a nice little- they tie the bow on their conversation, Xander’s like "So college isn’t so scary after all" and Buffy’s like "Yeah, it’s like high school at least I know what to expect" and then!
Kristin: And then!
Jenny: Oh my gosh, the vampire that ran away is on campus but then
what! He gets shot with some taser business andKristin: Yeah and hisJenny: -what! Who comes out of the woods- sorry.
Kristin: [laughs] No, please go, please.
Jenny: Whaaaaat! Who comes out of the trees, the shrubbery but three guys in military outfits with ski masks on.
Kristin: Yeah, and some crazy guns. So I don’t know what that’s all about. Maybe we’ll never see them again.
Jenny: Yeah, probably not.
Kristin: Probably not.
Jenny: Cool.
Kristin: Well, we’re rounding the bend and you might be thinking ladies no!
You forgot somethingJenny: [laughs] Oh yeah.
Kristin: You forgot the sexual tension award
Jenny: Right, right, right.
Kristin: Well we haven’t forgotten it but as we mentioned in season three we decided we were gonna make this a little bit more democratic.
Jenny: Taking it to the people.
Kristin: Taking it to the people this season so Jenny and I have narrowed our contenders down to four choices. So we’re gonna tell you who our four choices are and then you are going to see on twitter the day this episode airs this is gonna go up on twitter and you’re gonna vote and you will decide who the winner is and then next episode we’ll tell you who won and so on and so forth into season four and beyond.
Jenny: Yes, yes, yes, who… are… this weeks… contenders? [Sexual Tension Award jingle plays]
Kristin: And the four contenders for this weeks sexual tension award are:
Jenny: Giles and Olivia.
Kristin: Hell yes.
Jenny: Awooo.
Kristin: Buffy and Sunday.
Jenny: Xander and the fabulous ladies night club.
Kristin: And Monet and Klimt.
Jenny: [laughs] I hope Monet and Klimt take it.
Kristin: Yeah, Jenny really came up with most of those. Jenny’s very good at coming up with the sexual tension nominees. So once again today the day that the episode goes up is your chance to vote on twitter, follow us @bufferingcast and you’ll see the tweet, it’s a poll. And you can click there to vote and we’ll let you know who won when we come back with episode two. Friendly reminder as we mentioned up at the top of the episode we will be going every other week with Angel, Angel on Top launches May 30th, that’s next Wednesday.
Jenny: Ahh!
Kristin: Ahhhhhh! What’s gonna happen, what is Angel doing? Cannot wait to find out.
Jenny: Probably brooding.
Kristin: Definitely detective work.
Jenny: Getting some blood from the butcher, ooh! Steaming his duster.
Kristin: Oh I thought you were gonna say steaming his silk shirts and I was like can you steam a silk shirt? That doesn’t seem good for the silk.
Jenny: I don’t- I mean I’m not- unclear.
Kristin: Re-sewing on buttons that have just erroneously popped off.
Jenny: Oops. Yeah he’s always got a thimble on one finger.
Kristin: [laughs] And then we’ll be back with Living Conditions, an episode we’re very, very excited to talk about [Jenny squeals] On June 6th, we will miss you but I think we all have a lot of work to do. We have two series to watch now, it’s a whole situation. We’re all very excited about it and we hope that you are too. And hey everybody welcome to college.
Jenny: Yeaaaah. I’m Jenny Owen Youngs and when I’m not watching Buffy and making podcasts with Kristin I am making songs, hot, hot jams. You can hear some of them at jennyowenyoungs.com/buffering. And you can always give me a shout on twitter at gmail nope [laughs]
Kristin: At gmail? "You can give me a shout on twitter at gmail".
Jenny: I haven’t podcasted in some time, you can give me a shout on twitter @jennyowenyoungs.
Kristin: I am Kristin Russo you can find out more about me and the work that I do with lgbtq communities with everyone is gay and my kid is gay. You can learn all about those things on my website at kristinnoeline.com that’s k-r-i-s-t-i-n-n-o-e-l-i-n-e. Jenny just mouthed my initials while shaking her head and rolling her eyes at me.
Jenny: I know this song by heart.
Kritin: Like some kind of petulant teenage child.
Jenny: How dare you.
Kristin: [laughs] Anyway kristinnoeline.com you can also find me on social media, twitter, instagram etcetera @kristinnoeline.
Jenny: You can find me on instagram too @jennyowenyoungs.
Kristin: O-kay.
Jenny: Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on twitter, instagram and facebook @bufferingcast and you can always email us at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com .
Kristin: You can support us and the work that we do in a few ways, so many of you already have done these things or are doing them probably right now as I’m talking. You can go on over to itunes and leave us a good review, that helps people find our podcast which is really awesome because our community keeps getting bigger and bigger. As a matter of fact Jenny
something that we didn’t mentionJenny: Mmm?
Kristin: Is that during our break two really big things happened, Time put
out an article of their top 100 podcasts and we wereJenny: It was actually top 50.
Kristin: It was top 50?
Jenny: That’s right.
Kristin: Oh my gosh, I keep saying 100, I’m really doing us a disservice.
Jenny: Cut that in half girl.
Kristin: Well Time put out a list of their top 50 podcasts of 2018 and we were on it.
Jenny: Whaaat!
Kristin: And then a few weeks late Esquire put out a list of their top 10 podcasts of 2018 and we were on it!
Jenny: Yeah, I greased a few palms at some major media corporations, I’m not ashamed to say it. Got us on some lists.
Kristin: Oh no, the truth of it is that you all are wonderful and you’re supporting us and you’re speaking about your support in ways on social media and what have you and people are finding out about us. It’s really exciting because I think as everybody who’s listening to this podcast knows we’re talking about Buffy but we’re also building a really supportive community of people who are like fuck the patriarchy, fuck homophobia, fuck transphobia. A community who says fuck a lot which I think is great.
Jenny: Hell yeah.
Kristin: So thank youJenny: I’m sorry, fuck yeah.
Kristin: [laughs] So thank you all for your support in these ways, and this is why it’s important. Those reviews they help people find us and then all of the sudden we’re on a list and then more people find us, it’s great. And also you can support us by going over to Patreon. Patreon is a place where you can pledge a dollar or five dollars or ten dollars a month and you get really fun things in exchange. Like the mp3s of our songs in advance, our Buffy Watches, admission into our secret facebook group, all sorts of fun things.
Jenny: Yes, yes, yes.
Kristin: And bonus mailbag episodes which those of you who pledge at the ten dollar level got a fun episode just about a week ago. So that is all fun and then of course if you’d like to outfit yourself in all of our apparel you can do that, you can just go to bufferingthevampireslayer.com and click on shop and that is another way of supporting us.
Jenny: Yes! [whispers] Yes, yes, yes.
Kristin: Oh by the way you can find our patreon also on our website bufferingthevampireslayer.com just click on Patreon. We’ve made it pretty
easy. So those are waysJenny: One more way you can support us is by hand crafting meticulously a ornamental parasol and then using a little woodburning tool to burn Jenny and Kristin Class Protectors into a little wood plate that you then affix to the ornamental parasol and then you could time travel back to prom and give it to- wait! You guys already did this! Thank you. I’m just staring at it and getting kind of choked up.
Kristin: If you don’t know what Jenny’s referring to when we had our prom back in March a wonderful core group-
Jenny: A gaggle of youKristin: A wonderful core group of our scoobies presented us with our very own class protector award [high pitched] and it was really nice!
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: So those are some ways you can support us. [laughs]
Jenny: And so far no mean, hot vampires have stepped on it in front of us.
Kristin: Yeah, we’ve been watching it very closely.
Jenny: Well I think that about does it for this episode, thanks so much for
listening and till next timeJenny and Kristin: Awwwwoooooooooooooo!
Jenny: [whispers] college. [Jenny performing "The Freshman" from the album "Songs from Season Four" by Buffering the Vampire Slayer] Not supposed to be like this - y’know I used to be a real big fish Never thought that I would miss being in high school Nothing really feels the same, wasn’t ready for this change But no one else is even phased, feel so uncool All my friends are blending in, wish I was adapting But my socializing hours are just chock-full of undead men Wish I didn’t have to feel like such a freshman Soon as I made one nice friend, campus vamps they fed on him Seems a slayer just can’t win for losing Can’t believe they cornered me, I escaped them very narrowly Did anybody see-ee-ee where my moves went Frat guys giving Jell-O shots to incoming women Yes I see the patriarchy’s alive and kickin' Wish I didn’t have to feel like such a freshman And did I mention! Giles has a girlfriend! Or something, or something And did I mention! Giles has a girlfriend! It’s fucking weeeeeeird I went to The Bronze round ten, hey Xander’s back in town again Spent his summer stri-i-pping for some ladies He told me I was strong, he said I have the strength & power to send Sunday to her knees to beg for some mercy Dropped a bunch of psych books on a teacher’s assistant Everyone’s into Monet or else they’ve gone Kilmt-ing Wish it didn’t have to suck to feel like a freshman