Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 0.06: Welcome to the Mailbag Vol. 4
Kristin: You should turn this off right now.
Jenny: Delete.
Kristin: You don’t wanna listen to this.
Jenny: This isn’t what you were looking for.
Kristin: It’s not. You... have come to the wrong place.
Jenny: Or we have come with the wrong thing.
Kristin: [laughs] Listen. Hi, it’s Kristin and Jenny. You know us, we think. We didn’t tell you last week on our episode for "Bad Eggs"– you might
remember it. It went something like this: [imitates Jenny singing] "Bad Eggs!" Was that good, Jenny?
Jenny: That was great.
Kristin: We didn’t tell you that because Jenny was on tour– Jenny, how was your tour?
Jenny: It was so fun!
Kristin: Oh, it sounded so fun.
Jenny: It was so great. So many people brought Buffy DVDs for me to sign.
Kristin: We didn’t tell you that because Jenny was on tour, we are doing a mailbag episode this week and then coming at you hot, hot, hot on April 19th with what you have all been waiting for, the episode "Surprise."
Jenny: Yay!
Kristin: Followed immediately the following week on the 26th by the other episode you’ve been waiting for, "Innocence."
Jenny: Yay!
Kristin: We have a great mailbag ahead, a great mailbag, but you guys have been stressing me out all week. [Jenny laughs] Because everyone keeps tweeting and emailing and being like, "Oh. My. God. We’re so excited. We’ve watched every episode. We’re ready." And I keep emailing people back and tweeting at everyone back and being like [in a high pitched voice], "Uh, guys, uh, there’s just a mailbag next week, and then after that is the one that you’re looking for." So I feel– I have been wracked with guilt.
Jenny: Wracked.
Kristin: Wracked with all the guilt because we didn’t give you a head’s up. We promise to always give you a head’s up in the future. Because we felt so bad, we decided to plan our next Buffy Watch, which is open to anyone who is a patron of ours at the dollar level or more, so all of our patrons, any of our patrons. The next Buffy Watch is going to be on April 24th. It’s a Monday. It’s gonna
be at 6:30pm Pacific Time, 9:30pm Eastern Time. And we are all going to watch "Surprise" together. It will be the week that falls in between "Surprise" and "Innocence," or the Monday that falls between, I should say, "Surprise" and "Innocence." So mark your calendars for that. We will all get to watch it together. And now you know that there are two surprises. One is the episode, and the other one is, surprise! This is not "Surprise!" It’s a mailbag!
Jenny: [laughs]
NOTES: [Theme music]
Jenny: Hello, and welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast where usually we’re watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer one at a time, but not this week! This week, we’ve got other plans. I’m Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: And I’m Kristin Russo, and this right here, this is a mailbag episode.
Jenny: It’s where we have mail that is in a bag.
Kristin: Yep. We pull it one– we pull the mail out of the bag one at a time.
Jenny: Like a sack, like Santa’s–
Kristin: Santa’s– yeah.
Jenny: Gift sa– erm.
Kristin: I don’t wanna say sack anymore.
Jenny: Yeah. I’m sorry.
Kristin: [laughs]
Jenny: So here we are.
Kristin: Yeah. We get incredible email from so many of you, and so we try to do a mailbag episode, you know, every month and a half or so? Because by that time we have stacked it up to the ceiling. And so we hand pick some of our favorites and respond right here in real time on the podcast.
Jenny: [laughs] Right here in real time.
Kristin: [laughs] I don’t know. I think I’ve been possessed by an announcer ghost.
Jenny: I am into it. So... how are you?
Kristin: How am I? Jenny said before we started recording, "Hey, what do you think about us talking to each other before we read some of the mail?" And I was like, "Sure? We can talk." Are you using this as a platform to discuss things that you don’t wanna discuss off air? You’re like, "I was thinking about buying a new guitar."
Jenny: Right. Oh god, I really was thinking about that. I’m thinking about that every day. You can safely assume that’s always on my mind.
Kristin: Right, right, right. What kind of things do you wanna talk about, Jenny?
Jenny: Well, we just watched the trailer for Colossal.
Kristin: Oh, man.
Jenny: And it looks… spectacular.
Kristin: It really looks spectacular. I saw a tweet from The A.V. Club that was like– paraphrasing here, but it was like, "This film Colossal helped Anne Hathaway and Jason Sudeikis understand men activists," or– you know?
Jenny: Men’s rights activists?
Kristin: Men’s rights activists. And I was like, click.
Jenny: What?
Kristin: Yeah. And then when I clicked, I read the first couple of sentences of the review– or no, it was an interview with, I think, Anne Hathaway on The A.V. Club. And the first few sentences were like, "In this movie about a woman who can turn into a giant monster in Japan by standing in a spot at a playground in the United States–"
Jenny: Unbelievable.
Kristin: "–that also tackles things like men’s rights and female empowerment." I was like, "Whaaat?" And I clicked on the trailer, and I made Jenny sit and watch it with me, and now we are really excited.
Jenny: So excited to see that.
Kristin: I mean, it seems right in our wheelhouse, if you will.
Jenny: Yeah. Up Jenny and Kristin alley.
Kristin: Yeah. Monsters, patriarchy, come on! Anne Hathaway...
Jenny: Hmmm...
Kristin: You don’t like Anne Hathaway?
Jenny: Well, watching that trailer just, like– I have a–
Kristin: Complex?
Jenny: Complex relationship with Anne Hathaway.
Kristin: You have a Hathaway complex. [laughs]
Jenny: I have a Hathaway complex. But I do like– I have enjoyed watching her act. In fact, one of our very first dates was watching Rachel Getting Married.
Kristin: That’s true, it was.
Jenny: In which she is great.
Kristin: One of our very first dates? It was our very first date.
Jenny: Well, I guess like, date.
Kristin: Wow!
Jenny: What? Gotta go. So anyway...
Kristin: [laughs]
Jenny: What a delight to be discussing exciting things with you.
Kristin: Yeah. You see, are you backtracking now, wishing that you had not enticed us to talk about our personal lives? [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah. Let’s get to that mail. Mail’s just burnin’ a hole in my hand.
Kristin: Great. Well, we’re gonna do our best to see Colossal in the next few weeks as soon as it comes out. So you should see it too because maybe we’ll talk about it on a future podcast. Maybe, just maybe, if we actually get to the movies. Okay. Moving right along to the controversial topic of vampire hair.
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: Jenny, why don’t you read to us– we’ve gotten several emails in response to our question of whether or not vampires’ hair can grow, which was kind of based on your perception that Angel’s hair never changes.
Jenny: Mhm, mhm, mhm.
Kristin: Right, right. A lot of people had a lot of thoughts. Mary B. and Melissa B... not related.
Jenny: Uh, that we know of.
Kristin: To our knowledge, right. Both wrote in. So let’s hear what they have to say.
Jenny: So Mary B. writes, "We do see evidence of at least one vampire’s hair growth over the course of the show. It’s not that noticeable when it comes to length, but the vampire in question apparently dyes their hair and at one point has roots in their natural color." Good eye, Mary B.
Kristin: Good eye, Mary B., and nice work not spoiling anything in that telling of your noticing of the vampire hair growth. Appreciate that.
Jenny: Mhm, mhm, mhm. And then Melissa B. wrote in to say, "Angel’s hair length definitely changes. It’s much longer in his vampire adolescence/the early years. Other than explaining with metaphysics–"
Kristin: Metaphidics.
Jenny: Metaphidics. "I do have a friend that is blind that shaves by touch. He’s quite adept at it but tells me it took years not to get cuts. Angel heals very quickly, so I guess it’s less of an issue for vampires. Maybe there are vampire hairstylists? Serious life questions."
Kristin: Right. So Melissa is commenting both on our question about hair growth as well as– we asked, how does Angel shave if he can’t see himself in the mirror? Melissa, one of a couple of people, bringing something very important to our attention, which is that there are blind people who shave their faces and are capable of doing that. And of course, it takes time to learn, but that Angel would be able to do something similar here with practice and have an easier time. Because his nicks and cuts, they just seal right up.
Jenny: Right, right, right. I have a related question that sprang to mind most recently while watching the People and Entertainment Weekly Buffy 20th Anniversary reunion vibe thing.
Kristin: That’s the title. That’s the official title.
Jenny: Yeah. They called me up and said, "What should the title be?" And I was like, "Here it is." And they were like, "Great."
Kristin: Right. We always call Jenny for succinct titles. [laughs]
Jenny: Rolls right off the tongue. Yes. So my question is, perhaps, does David Boreanaz's hair grow? [Kristin laughs] Because he has had the same hairstyle for the past 20 years. It was slightly longer in Buffy times, but all throughout his long– the 12 seasons of Bones that he has filmed, he’s just had that straight up in the air like he saw a ghost.
Kristin: Wow, is that really– does Bones really have 12 seasons?
Jenny: Um, yes?
Kristin: Wow, who knew! That’s so many seasons. Yeah. I mean, so I think what you’re bringing to our attention, Jenny, is that perhaps we got distracted in the lore of monsterdom.
Jenny: We were ignoring the question that was right in front of this the whole time.
Kristin: Which is, David Boreanaz, what are you?
Jenny: What indeed.
Kristin: [laughs] So this next email comes in from Ashley, and it is for you Jenny.
Jenny: Hooray!
Kristin: Ashley listened to our last mailbag episode, in which you told a story about a dream you had where a witch put some worms and other nonsense at your feet.
Jenny: [makes grossed-out blah-blah-blah sound]
Kristin: Ashley says, "Jenny, I’m listening to this mailbag episode, and I got a major case of the shivers. When I was a child somewhere between four and six, I had a dream that Ronald McDonald was under my bed, sticking me in between my toes with needles."
Jenny: Ahhh!
Kristin: I am so sorry, everyone. Ashley, this is horrible. "Still to this day," says Ashley, "I have a hard time sleeping if the covers are not tightly tucked in at the foot of the bed." Bleh! Bleh! Bleh!
Jenny: Ashley, that’s terrible.
Kristin: It’s almost as terrible as that bug that hatches out of the egg in "Bad Eggs." Almost. Not quite, for me.
Jenny: Yeah. No, no, no. The egg bug is still worse than this, but this is pretty bad. Especially– man, Ronald McDonald.
Kristin: Yeah. Oof. Ronald McDonald.
Jenny: Of all the clowns.
Kristin: Oof. Rough clown, it’s a rough clown. Listen, I don’t like clowns. Not many people, I think, like clowns. Sorry, clowns.
Jenny: [laughs] No offense, clowns.
Kristin: No offense to you, clowns, but you can be scary.
Jenny: But why you so creepy?
Kristin: Well, I mean, I think clowns have been used for as long as we’ve been alive, as horror plot–
Jenny: Horror movie plot devices, sorry.
Kristin: Oh, yeah. Anybody seen Poltergeist? Oh, man, that c  lown.
Jenny: That is the worst.
Kristin: Yeah. Ronald McDonald ain't got nothing on the Poltergeist clown. That clown is just something. But you know, this is terrifying, Ashley. And there’s something, too, about the foot of the bed or under the– like, under the bed is obviously the place where we’re always afraid of things and, you know, what’s under there?
Jenny: I would take a flying leap if I had to– ‘cause my lightswitch was by the door, but then my bed was on the other side of the room. [Kristin gasps] So I would go running and jump into my bed to avoid getting anywhere near the edge of under the bed where whatever was under there I assume would grab my ankle!
Kristin: Yes! And ‘cause you can’t see it. ‘Cause you cannot see it. And that’s like– not to keep talking about "Bad Eggs" again, but that’s kind of what’s so scary about that scene too. It’s like, yeah, the bug is scary, or the whatever it is, the baby bezoar. I hope she has a Babybzorn for her baby bezoar.
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: [laughs] But it’s because she can’t see where it is. The worst thing that could ever happen to you is to not be able to see what is happening, and you cannot see what’s happening at your feet when you’re in bed. Ugh! It’s bad. I’m so sorry. I’m so sorry, everyone. You know what? Let’s talk about libraries.
Jenny: Please!
Kristin: Now, this is a longer email, but it is great.
Jenny: But it is great, yeah.
Kristin: There’s a couple of emails that we’re gonna read that are a little bit longer than our typical emails but they have made it in because they are phenomenal. Chris B. writes in…
Jenny: Possibly related to Mary B. and Melissa B.
Kristin: [laughs] Why is everyone’s last initial B? Chris B. writes in: "As a former late ‘90s teenager and current children’s librarian, I wanted to write in and offer you a plausible explanation for one of the show’s most baffling mysteries. Why doesn’t anyone, other than the Scooby gang, go into the school library?"
Jenny: Dun dun dun!
Kristin: "Up until the mid-90s, students had to visit the library in order to do research for papers, projects, etc. A library was pretty much their only source for reference materials. However, with the advent of personal computers and access to the internet, those materials became conveniently gathered and organized on the web and/or in helpful encyclopedia CD-ROMs, remember Encarta?"
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: I do, Chris B., I do remember Encarta. "By ‘96, ‘97, most high school students could now do their research more conveniently at home or in designated school computer labs. Compounding this issue was the fact that while a fair number of the librarians at the time embraced the computer revolution, many felt more like Giles, preferring card catalogues to search engines."
Jenny: I still feel that way.
Kristin: [laughs] "This too often led to a disconnect between student and librarian. A growing sense that librarians, and therefore libraries, were old fashioned or obsolete and a corresponding decreasing interest in libraries as anything other than a glorified study space for nerds."
Jenny: In quotes.
Kristin: Yes, "nerds" is in quotes, ‘cause we don’t– we know what a nerd is and a nerd is not what a nerd seems… goodbye.
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: Chris B. continues: "Big chain bookstores also became more widespread during the 90s, offering cheap books for sale and leading to non-voracious readers avoiding libraries altogether. All of which leads us up to the Sunnydale High School library, where there seems to be a total of one computer available for use."
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: "A collection heavily weighted in favor of folklore and the occult, a librarian who, while personable and always rocking a tweed suit, didn’t like the internet or technology in general, and a small group of wacky kids always hanging out and talking about monster during their many," in quotes, "‘free periods,’ i.e. cut classes, it’s somewhat understandable that few students would want or need to go into that library. Particularly if they peered through those little round windows one day on the way to class and spotted scattered piles of medieval weaponry, a blond girl beating up the librarian with a quarterstaff or demons popping out of the floor."
Jenny: Great points, great points all.
Kristin: Chris B., my favorite librarian after Giles. Sorry, but I’m sure you’ll understand, Chris B., but librarian number two goes to you.
Jenny: You’re in Kristin’s top two librarians of all time, congratulations.
Kristin: Congrats. I just loved this, I don’t even have that much to say about it. Chris B. has said all the things that need to be said. But we were talking a little bit last episode about the mall and the position of the mall in culture, and I think this kind of falls in the same line...
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: Of what the internet does to physical– what it did in the 90s and still is doing to physical spaces.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And I think what’s really interesting is that now we’re in the year 2017, I’m saying that clearly in case this sound file is picked up in space one day. [both laugh]
Jenny: If our podcast goes on the next Voyager.
Kristin: Now in the year 2017, I think we’re also seeing the internet and our progression with the internet affecting physical spaces and physical items in a little bit of the opposite way. At first, libraries and physical products and going to the mall sort of were pushed more away. And I think now, we’re seeing you know, vinyl. Vinyl is a thing that I think a lot about. And like, physical books and zines.
Jenny: Mhm, mhm.
Kristin: And things like this being popularized again as sort of like a push back against how they were pushed away.
Jenny: Right, right, right.
Kristin: Push, push, push, push, push.
Jenny: Right. [laughs]
Kristin: You get what I’m saying, guys.
Jenny: I get what you’re saying.
Kristin: Maybe I need a trip to the library.
Jenny: I... would love to take you.
Kristin: I actually to go to the library all the time.
Jenny: Me too, I don’t know if you knew that ‘cause we…
Kristin: We– yeah, we don’t talk.
Jenny: Don’t spend a lot of time together so you don’t know a lot about my day to day activities and I don’t know about yours.
Kristin: No, but we– Jenny and I are big library people. We work at the library. Jenny is always taking books out from the library.
Jenny: Love takin’ them books out.
Kristin: Anyway, you were gonna say something.
Jenny: Who can say!
Kristin: What you were gonna say?
Jenny: Nobody, I think I was gonna say I love physical items versus intangible zero and one items.
Kristin: Oh yeah, that’s us. I mean, when we moved here to California, the friends who helped us move into our home, here in California, were so mad at us because we had four million boxes that weighed four million pounds each because we had so many books. That’s the kind of people we are! Anyhow, onwards and upwards.
Jenny: To my favorite email of all time. Back when we watched The Dark Age and we chatted with our pal Stuart McLean, who portrayed Phillip Henry, who is first a dude and then a reanimated corpse in the episode. And we saw Phillip Henry in the morgue all bruised with these splotchy bruises all over his body and I was like, WTF? Is that the corpse norm? And I think I said about as much on our episode of the podcast for that
episode. And immediately, if not sooner, Delisa P. wrote in: "I teach anatomy. After a person dies, the blood in their body pools downward (gravity) giving the appearance of bruises." That is the entire email. I love it.
Kristin: I love this email too because it was like, listen, you have a question, here’s an answer. I don’t have any more time for any more nonsense, here’s what I have to say about bruising. And I love it. I love every bit of it. I think the next email is related.
Jenny: Yes, also from the science lab.
Kristin: Also from the science lab, also from The Dark Age. Nathan wrote in
saying: "Regarding the question of acid in The Dark Age–" The question was that Ethan Rayne used sulphuric acid to burn off his tattoo.
Jenny: Remove the tattoo, right?
Kristin: Or at least that’s what we are to believe. We weren’t sure if that was actually something that could happen. And Nathan, don’t you worry,
don’t anyone worry, ‘cause Nathan said: "Regarding this question, my boyfriend is a scientist who works with sulphuric acid and spills it on himself regularly. He says that it is almost certainly not an option for tattoo removal, as he still has all of his skin." [giggles]
Jenny: We should all be so lucky to still have all of our skin.
Kristin: Yeah, so thank you, Nathan. We’re glad your boyfriend has all of his skin and we’re also happy to know that sulphuric acid...
Jenny: Is safe. Ish.
Kristin: Probably won’t remove your tattoo. I mean, I don’t that I would call if safe, Jenny.
Jenny: Safer than we once feared.
Kristin: Disclaimer!
Jenny: Don’t drink it! Don’t drink it!
Kristin: Good lord. Something I think that is also super fun is a conversation around the cross. We’re skipping a little ahead now to the episode with Kendra. What is the episode where Kendra appears for the first time?
Jenny: What’s My Line?
Kristin: What’s My Line, where we notice that Buffy’s cross that she was wearing, her necklace, was smaller when she was kissing Angel on the ice rink and then throughout that episode, and many of you had cross theories.
Lauren M.: "I think it could symbolize how Buffy’s cross to bear has gotten smaller now that Kendra is on the scene." There’s more than one slayer and so, you know, her cross to bear is not quite as heavy. I love that, Lauren M.
Jenny: Uh-huh, uh-huh.
Kristin: Cailey W.: "Buffy’s tiny cross might have been a wardrobe choice so that Kendra could reasonably think Buffy was a vampire, without a billboard-sized Jesus necklace gleaming across an ice rink to indicate otherwise." Thank you, Cailey, also I think spectacular reasoning here.
Jenny: Yep.
Kristin: And then someone, and I’m so sorry to whoever you are, but someone tweeted at us and I remember the tweet but I cannot find it. But this was my favorite theory. "I think that it will burn less because Angel and Buffy are making out a bunch now." So the theory here being that Buffy had to downsize–
Jenny: Yeah, because we know that Angel can’t keep his shirt closed.
Kristin: Oh, no. For heaven's, no.
Jenny: Buffy really needs to minimize the size of the cross she’s wearing at a given time.
Kristin: Yes. So Cailey writes additionally in her email– we heard her tiny cross theory. But Cailey also writes to us about something else that happened in What’s My Line. Which is when Oz says to Willow that he’s been practicing his E flat, diminished 9th. Is that what he says? That he’s practicing his E flat, diminished 9th?
Jenny: That he aspires to that.
Kristin: That he aspires to that. So Cailey says: "Jenny, is E flat" – oh, and he calls it– what’s important is that he aspires to that and he calls it a man’s
chord. So Cailey says: "Jenny, is E flat, diminished 9th some kind of holy grail for guitar? On a scale of one to the patriarchy, how offensive is the term ‘man’s chord’?"
Jenny: Oh boy. So we actually talked about this in the episode and ended up taking it out because, like, I just can’t.
Kristin: Jenny had some difficulty explaining this ‘cause it is– because you’re a girl.
Jenny: Right, ‘cause women don’t know as much about…
Kristin: And you don’t– ‘cause it’s a man’s chord.
Jenny: [sounding dazed] What is a man’s chord?
Kristin: What we should have done for this episode, we should have invited a man over...
Jenny: To explain…
Kristin: To explain. Any man actually, it didn’t even have to be a man who knows about music because just by default of being a man, they would probably be able to explain to us what an E flat, diminished 9th is.
Jenny: So the way that chords are made, they’re made up of a bunch of different notes. And the chord has different qualities based on what notes are selected and, you know, what notes are in or outside of the key– blah, blah, blah.
Kristin: Interesting.
Jenny: So, E flat diminished 9th actually goes by other names as well. Because if you shuffle the notes around–
Kristin: Does it go by the name the patriarchy chord?
Jenny: It goes by the name the patriarchy chord.
Kristin: Sorry, sorry. If you shuffle things around.
Jenny: No, no, no. It’s fine. Part of it is interpretation. So a chord could contain five notes and those five notes could equal an E flat diminished 9th, or the more commonly used name for it F7 Flat 9. You’ve got an E flat, a G flat, an A, an F and a C. Right? And those notes can be shuffled around into a different order or into a different mental order for you to understand a different note in the chord as being the root. The E flat or the F, and then you sort of interpret what the nature of the chord is based around where you’re hearing the root.
Kristin: How did it make you feel when it was called a man’s chord, Jenny?
Jenny: Um… irritated?
Kristin: Is it a chord you can play on a piano?
Jenny: Yeah, sure. Yeah
Kristin: Can you do that for us? Can you play us– or do we need a man?
Jenny: Mmm, let’s get a man in here.
Kristin: [laughs] Can you–
Jenny: Actually, yeah, give me your phone. So we’re looking at E flat [plays note] G flat [plays note] A [plays note] C [plays note] F [plays note] Listen to that chord. [Plays notes in order] Oh, it’s actually kind of pretty. [plays notes all together]
Kristin: Wow, thank you, Jenny, so much for that beautiful musical lesson, both teaching us two things. Teaching us about the E flat diminished 9th, and teaching us about the power… of feminism.
Jenny: [laughs] Is that what I did?
Kristin: I think so. Okay, let’s talk about ghosts. Y'all ready for a little email here?
Jenny: I’m ready for ghosts!
Kristin: This is a great email. Jenny, would you like me to read this email or would you like to? This is the long email. I know sometimes you don’t like to read aloud long emails.
Jenny: I’d love to give it a stab.
Kristin: Ooh! She’s gonna do it! She’s gonna do it, folks. Jenny Owen Youngs, reading an email from Adam T.
Jenny: Hold your applause! [Kristin laughs] "During the Lie to Me episode, you mentioned some weird encounters you both had which you attributed to ghosts. I recently came across some information that may give a scientific explanation for ghost sightings. As an audio engineer, this information made me really excited as it has to do with sound. As you may or may not know, different sounds can have different physical effects on our bodies. While you may assume that this would only apply to sounds that we can hear, even sounds we can’t hear can still have an effect on our bodies. Many studies have shown that even though we can’t hear sounds outside of our frequency range, we can still perceive them and they can cause different effects on the body. One such range of frequencies is from seven to nineteen hertz just below the hearing range of humans. Scientists have found that frequencies in this range can induce fear or panic. They believe that we evolved this trait as a source of protection against dangers like earthquakes and volcanic eruptions."
Kristin: What?!
Jenny: Ha! "As both produced frequencies between the seven to nineteen hertz range. So how does this explain ghost sightings? Well, pipes commonly found in houses and buildings can produce frequencies in this range if they are the right size and length. So a ‘haunted house’ may not actually have ghosts, but pipes that are producing low frequencies that are inducing fear and panic in people. Now what about ghost sightings? Well, not only can these frequencies affect how we feel, but they also affect how we see. According to NASA, sounds with a frequency of 18.9 hertz can resonate within our eyeballs if they are powerful enough." [singing] Within our eyeballs!
Kristin: [laughs] Adam T. did not sing it. That’s Jenny’s embellishment.
Jenny: That’s my interpretation. "This resonance in our eyeballs can smear our vision so that a small object, like a speck of dust, can appear as a much larger moving object. This frequency can be reproduced by exhaust fans in buildings and further amplified by the shape of the room. So your friends that have come into your studio and see a ghost in your chair may have just smeared vision caused by low frequencies being produced by an exhaust fan which are then resonating within the room. So sorry if I ruined ghosts for you by giving you scientific explanation for them, but I just found this really interesting and had to share it with you. P.S., sorry Kristin, I don’t have an explanation for the bathtub faucet thing, that’s super creepy."
Kristin: Yeah, that is super creepy. This is so amazing.
Jenny: This is gre– ama– fan– I love it.
Kristin: Adam, it does not make me not believe in ghosts but it does give me a lot to–
Jenny: It makes me believe in Adam.
Kristin: [laughs] Seriously. The thing that’s bananas about this– I mean, it’s great on so many levels. But we record in this studio, the studio where our friends saw a ghost sitting in the chair– the very chair I’m sitting in right now, right? Here’s a fact you don’t know. We have had a crazy time trying to get the microphones in this office to not have a hum that we cannot figure out where it comes from. We cannot figure out what the microphones are picking up. They hum differently depending on which way they’re facing in the room. We have unplugged and replugged. It is a thing.
Jenny: So you think it’s ghosts?
Kristin: No!
Jenny: Oh.
Kristin: No, in this case with this new information, I’m just thinking, what if there’s something in the room that is at 18.9 hertz that is messing with the microphones, that is smearing our friends vision, and it all fits together like a beautiful ghost puzzle.
Jenny: Wow, what could it be?
Kristin: I don’t know, we might never know, but I love this. I mean, human brains and ooph, there’s just a lot. I still believe– I mean, obviously the bathtub faucet, right? It turned on. And like, our friend and yours, Kate Leth, recently did a Twitter rant about a ghost story that she had which involved a knock on the door so…
Jenny: No!
Kristin: So those things are, you know, that’s why I hold true to my belief in ghosts. But I do think that this is very interesting [singing] and I love it! And I love you, Adam T.!
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Not related to ghosts but in similar orbits, we find the question about the tarot cards. Here’s the deal. Molly W., Crystal C., Elise F. and Robert W. all wrote in emails that were 427 pages long apiece. They were amazing, they were fascinating. But they all were markedly different. They had some overlap, some not, they talked about the two different decks of tarot. Some of them said that certain cards were certainly within the deck. Some of them said that no cards were able to be in the deck. There was a whole tarot explosion–
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: That was fascinating to me but that when I went– when I sat down and tried to be like how do I get all this information together in a succinct fashion? I could not do it. But I do want you all to know that we received all of your tarot information and it has opened my mind. One of you, I believe
Molly W., said: "Kristin, I cannot believe with your history, you did not ever get into tarot." I would like to correct you, I did get into tarot I just did not know about what I was doing.
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: You know what I mean? I certainly was like, I love a tarot deck and I would like for– you know, I don’t wanna get the death card. But I didn’t do the proper research, so you’re right. But also, I did have tarot, you know. I did have the tarot experience.
Jenny: [laughs] The tarot experience is buying a tarot deck and looking at it with your friends.
Kristin: Well, I had some–
Jenny: And being spooky.
Kristin: Yes, yes, yes, it is, Jenny!
Jenny: Okay. These tarot cards go great with my long velvet frock.
Kristin: [laughs] So we’ve gotten some questions from Twitter that I would love to tackle if you’re into it.
Jenny: Yeah! What’s up, Twitter!
Kristin: What’s up, Twitter. Nina has a three parter.
Jenny: Three prongs?
Kristin: Three prongs to this question. "Are you going to Whedoncon?" We are not going to Whedoncon. And I will tell you why we are not going to Whedoncon, it is because we are going to A Camp. A camp run by Autostraddle and me, Kristin Russo. [Jenny and Kristin laugh] It’s a camp for queer and trans women and non binary folks and some trans men because gender is complicated and I co-direct the camp in May.
Jenny: So attendance is mandatory.
Kristin: Attendance is very mandatory and Jenny is my wife and works with me at A Camp.
Jenny: I am the special assistant of covering emotional needs to the camp co-director.
Kristin: Yes, and also the composer of the official A Camp theme song, written by you, performed by you.
Jenny: Is it official?
Kristin: It is official. You wanna know what? I’m the co-director so I can make it official.
Jenny: Oh, nepotism.
Kristin: It happens at the same time as Whedoncon so we will not be there this year. But if you are going to Whedoncon, you should go check out a panel being done by Sunnydale Study Group and Hellmouthy. Two other Buffy podcasts. Believe it or not, there are a bunch.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And the lovely people at Sunnydale Study Group and Hellmouthy are doing a panel at Whedoncon and they have asked us if we could participate virtually. So we’re gonna send them a special video that they will be playing at that panel. So if you are gonna be at Whedoncon, go check it out, have a good time, be there for us in spirit. We will be missing you from Wisconsin where we will be with a bunch of queer and trans people having a party of our own.
Jenny: Mm-hm.
Kristin: Question number two from Nina, "Kristin, have you watched Angel?" Why, yes, Nina, I have. I have watched Angel, I watched Angel at the same time as I watched Buffy in the order in which I was designated to watch the episodes told to us by the internet. So that they– all of the crossover episodes would crossover the way that they were supposed to and so on and so forth. I’m sure that what you all wanna know now is are we gonna do a podcast about Angel? We don’t know, we don’t know.
Jenny: TBD. As yet undetermined.
Kristin: When we know, we will let you know. But we don’t know. But we do
love Angel. Last question: "Do you have a favorite episode of the podcast so far?" Do you?
Jenny: Oh my gosh. I love the live episode.
Kristin: Yeah, same.
Jenny: The live episode is so fun.
Kristin: Yeah, the live episode is my favorite episode. There’s just something… it’s like, you know, we sit in this room, this quiet little room and we talk to you and then later, you listen and you might have responses. Somebody wrote in to us about how they love our podcast so much that when they drive around in their car, they punch the ceiling when they’re out loud laughter isn’t enough. So we know you’re having emotions out there, but we can’t hear them in real time. But that’s why the live episode was so fun, both to do it and to also listen back to it, because you can hear the response in real time and the response in real time, you know, sort of fed us and so it had this very special energy.
Jenny: Totally, it was so fun. It was also nice to– I mean, usually it’s us and maybe a guest, right? But to get to hear a variety of guests within one podcast episode, really fun. And I mean Chris, Brittani… Chris Farren, Brittani Nichols, and Gaby Dunn all did such a great job.
Kristin: Oh! Dream team, what a dream team and actually we will be attempting to do a live episode at A Camp. Speaking of A Camp and live episodes.
Jenny: [singsong] Let it be so!
Kristin: Let it be so. We think that it will be very fun. But yeah, so those were some great questions from Nina. One more question from Twitter from Matt B. Man, what is with the last initials of B?
Jenny: All B all the time.
Kristin: All B all the time. "If Buffy could cross over with any other TV show, which do you think would be perfect?"
Jenny: [laughs] Which do you think would be... perfect.
Kristin: Perfect. What is the perfect crossover episode? I mean, crossover series for Buffy.
Jenny: I mean, all I wanna see is Buffy and the X Files. That’s all I want. I wanna see…
Kristin: What do you think would happen if Buffy met Mulder and Scully?
Jenny: I think Mulder would be all Muldery and he’d be like, "oh yeah, the Order of Taraka, yeah, I was just reading about this esoteric hyper-regional, you know, micro niche folklore item that’s directly related to what you’re talking about. What are the odds!" And Scully will be like, "I can’t believe in anything–" ‘cause Scully will get knocked out every time a vampire is about to go into vamp face ‘cause she’s always unconscious when something would make her believe happens.
Kristin: Scully would be like, "Buffy, your body temperature is a little higher than normal and I think that’s where you’re scientifically getting this extra strength from."
Jenny: Right, yeah. Ugh, that would be great.
Kristin: That would be great, I think they would have a great relationship as a trio. Because Buffy sort of straddles the line, you know, between reality and fantasy. That’s her whole character is that she’s got one foot in high school and one foot in the monster land.
Jenny: Right. [laughs]
Kristin: So I’m in. I’m into that. I don’t know what my favorite– you know, we have– we were just talking to my friend– our friend, Reese Bernard, who is the person who runs Autostraddle, speaking of Autostraddle. And her first response when we read this question aloud was My So Called Life, which I didn’t even get a chance to think about it before she said it, but I’m gonna tell you what. If I could push together two of my favorite TV shows, I would do it.
Jenny: Mmhm.
Kristin: And I think– you know who would be so into Buffy?
Jenny: Jordan Catalano?
Kristin: No. Well, Jordan Catalano would definitely wanna make out with Buffy.
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: But no, Rayanne Graff would be so i nto Buffy. Rayanne Graff dressed up as a vampire for Halloween.
Jenny: Oh yeah!
Kristin: Because she’s the best and she understands the importance of vampires.
Jenny: Okay, okay.
Kristin: And I think that Buffy, if Buffy changed schools and was going to school with Rayanne and Angela and Ricky, I think there would be a little tension. Because I think that Rayanne would be super excited about Buffy and I think Angela would be kind of jealous about it. Thank you so much for that question so now I can just think about Buffy attending the same high school as Rayanne Graff and Angela Chase. That would make me happy. Anyway, on to increasingly important news and emails here. We have an email from Joseph K. Do you wanna read it, Jenny, or should I?
Jenny: Oh my gosh! You should read it because it’s about Cordelia.
Kristin: It is about Cordelia. Joseph K. writes in: "In honor of the lovely and perfect Queen C, I thought I would share some possible origins for the name Cordelia. According to my extensive Wikipedia research, the name is most likely derived from the latin root Cor- or Cordus meaning heart. So it could be a way of calling someone dear heart or true heart." Which is what I call Cordelia all the time, Joseph.
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: "Another possibility is that it comes from the French phrase cor d’leon." I don’t know if that’s how you say that, but it sounds good to me. "Which means heart of a lion. A third possibility is that it comes from the Welsh name"– here we go– "Credalealad. Credaledalad, meaning jewel from the sea. Isn’t language fascinating? And perhaps she was named in honor of Shakespeare’s Cordelia, who was King Lear’s loyal and honest daughter, who proved her love by refusing to flatter her aging father, unlike her more sycophantic sisters, and suffered a tragic fate for her troubles. Miss Chase does possess a certain forthright brutal honesty and we do know that Joss Whedon is a big Shakespeare fan."
Jenny: Spectacular points and information, Joseph K.
Kristin: Yeah,.Joseph K., you might know– you might have hitten [sic] on– you might have hit on that tip… you might have…
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: [laughs] Joseph K., you might know that a secret way to probably get on the mailbag episode or to up your chances is by writing us something about Queen C.
Jenny: Yeah, that’s right.
Kristin: Especially the origins of– the possible origins of her name. We cannot, of course, talk about all these possible origins and talk about her lion heart or her forthright brutal honesty without playing her jingle, can we, Jenny?
Jenny: Guess we can’t!
NOTES: [Jenny Owen Youngs performs the Cordelia jingle] Cordelia (ah-ahh) I love you, Cordelia (ah-ahh) You’re perfect, Cordelia (ah-ahh)
Kristin: Well, well, well. That was lovely. Lovely as always. Thank you, Joseph K., for the inspiration. Thank you to Cordelia for existing.
Jenny: Praise.
Kristin: Jenny, why don’t you read Leah T.’s email here because you are the one who can answer this question.
Jenny: Oh boy. Leah T. writes: "Wow, I’ve been loving this podcast. If I started talking about all the things I love and appreciate about it, I would be talking for days." Thanks, Leah. "Anyways, after being weeks behind, I was catching up on the podcast on my commute and the special 20th anniversary episode was playing. I work for a summer camp for girls and as soon as I heard ‘Demons to Fight,’ I knew I wanted to be able to play it at a campfire. Would I be able to get the chords for the song as well as the okay to perform it? Finding slow songs that are empowering, don’t focus on romantic love or home and in general super rad is surprisingly difficult which is why I was so stoked to hear it." Leah T...
Kristin: Leah T. is not the only person who has written in to us to get chords to some of the songs for a summer camp.
Jenny: [high-pitched and delighted] Mmmm! Summer camp!
Kristin: Right? And not the first person to write us to request the songs for a summer camp for girls specifically to empower them.
Jenny: [high-pitched] Mmmmmm! Mmmmm!
Kristin: I can’t, we cannot, this is the best.
Jenny: Cannot.
Kristin: You can play– of course you can play it.
Jenny: Please do.
Kristin: But how will you play it if you don’t have the chords?
Jenny: I shall prepare them for you.
Kristin: That is wonderful, Jenny. I wrote to Leah and I asked Leah when the camp started and Leah said the end of May, so…
Jenny: I’ll be a-hustling to make that chord sheet happen.
Kristin: Yes, so follow us– if you don’t already follow us, follow us on Twitter @Bufferingcast or follow us on Facebook at facebook.com/bufferingcast and we will get you the chords for "Demons to Fight." And Patreons, keep your eyes a-peeled as well, because you might get some bonus chords over there.
Jenny: Absolutely.
Kristin: And we’ll let you know what’s where and when’s where and what’s what [Jenny laughs] as soon as we get there. Yes?
Jenny: Great, great, great.
Kristin: Great. So this has been a lovely time.
Jenny: What a delight.
Kristin: There’s one more email.
Jenny: Oh, is there?
Kristin: There is. In a recent episode, Giles said to Buffy that he believed it was staking time. Buffy was taking out her anger about Ted, you know…
Jenny: Oh yeah.
Kristin: Fighting a vamp a little bit too much. And Giles said, it’s staking time, Buffy. And that inspired me to sing a song… or a part of a song on the episode of our podcast for Ted [singing to the tune of "Closing Time"] "staking time!" That’s all I did. I put a couple notes into the universe that had been written for me by someone else with new words. And Brittany M. wrote in because Brittany M. wrote the full song for us.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: "Staking Time," lyrics by Brittany M. And Jenny is going to perform the song for us all. [Jenny laughs] Brittany, thank you for your lyrics. [Jenny Owen Youngs performing "Staking Time" to the tune of "Closing Time"] Staking time Open all the caskets and stake all the vamps in the heart Staking time Open all the blinds and turn all the vamps into dust Staking time One last call for alcohol at Willy’s demonic bar Staking time Beat him for some info and go save the world I know who I want to save the world (x3) Save the world Staking time Time for you to go out to the cemetery again Staking time Won’t stop til the world’s safe and the patriarchy is smashed So gather up your crossbow, get some holy water Hope that you have got a stake Staking time Every new vamp slayer comes from some other vamp slayer’s end I know who I want to save the world (x3) Save the world Staking time Every new vamp slayer comes from some other vamp slayer’s end
Kristin: Wow, that was great. Jenny, great job.
Jenny: Thank you so much.
Kristin: Brittany, great job.
Jenny: Great job, Brittany.
Kristin: And you would not believe it if we told you, but we’re gonna tell you and you’re gonna have to believe it. After we got these lyrics and we recorded this song, we got another e  mail from Alyssa, who also sent us a completely different set of complete lyrics to this song, which is phenomenal.
Jenny: Unbelievable.
Kristin: Unbelievable, you all are the best. We did make a live video of Jenny recording that song and that will be up again for all of our patrons. We said that up at that front of the episode, in case you are new and you don’t know what that means. We have a Patreon account, it’s found at patreon.com/bufferingcast. And over there, you can get all sorts of fun rewards for supporting this podcast. One of which is joining for that Buffy Watch we talked about on April 24th. Another of which is seeing this live video of Jenny playing this song. And we will also put up Alyssa’s complete lyrics that were sent through to us so you can see the alternate version as well. So check that all out over on Patreon.
Jenny: Well, that does it for us for today’s mailbag. Thank you so much for listening. I’m Jenny Owen Youngs, you can give me a shout on Twitter @jennyowenyoungs.
Kristin: And I’m Kristin Russo, you can find me on Twitter @kristinnoeline, k-r-i-s-t-i-n-n-o-e-l-i-n-e.
Jenny: Follow the show on Facebook and Twitter @bufferincast and shoot us an email anytime for future mailbag consideration at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin: And of course, we will see you next week. And guess what we’ll be talking about next week? "Surprise."
Jenny: Ahhhh!
Kristin: It’s gonna be a good one.
Jenny: For real.
Kristin: See ya then.
Jenny: Til next time –
Both: Awooooooooo!