Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 4.22.02: Restless Part Two
Jenny: Support for today’s episode comes from Buffy. Buffy makes bedding that’s earth-friendly and cruelty-free. Their latest product, The Breeze, is a comforter made entirely from 100% eucalyptus fiber, to regulate temperature and keep you cool and comfortable all night long. And Buffy offers a free trial, so if you don’t love it, return it at no cost. Whether you sleep in a coffin, or surrounded by doily pillows, or in some other sleep configuration, your sleep experience can be made cozier by Buffy. For $20 off your Buffy comforter, visit Buffy.co and enter code BUFFERING. That’s Buffy.co and enter code BUFFERING for $20 off.
Jenny: [Inhales] Hey!
Kristin: Wow. Hi. How are you doing, Jenny?
Jenny: It's-- I'm great. I'm so excited. How are you?
Kristin: I'm doing pretty great. It took us like a couple of tries to get into this intro because the information that we have to share with you is so enormous that I feel like-
Jenny: Are you sitting down?
Kristin: Right, like sit down...
Jenny: Are you in a safe space?
Kristin: Check your rear view mirror, you know, gathering your surroundings, prepare for what we are about to tell you. It's a one-two punch of announcements, folks.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Here comes the first fist to your face. [Jenny laughs] We are going to be sitting down with Seth Green, aka Oz, aka the werewolf who stole our hearts for an episode, a very special episode where we talk to Seth about his time on the show that will air on June 7th. June 7th is also the day, coincidentally, that Seth Green's directorial debut comes out. It is a movie called Changeland and it is a comedy-drama that stars a few wonderful people. One of them is Breckin Meyer. This is like, just all of my nineties heartstrings--
Jenny: Mh-hmm.
Kristin: --being played upon. I like, I follow, I think Seth Green because of Buffering on Instagram and there's a lot of crossover content between Seth Green and Breckin Meyer, which is [laughing] always very enjoyable for me. [Jenny laughs] Anyhow, we are simply beside ourselves that we that we are going to get a chance to talk to Seth. Today I'm going to put a post up on Twitter and Instagram and Facebook where you can submit questions so that will select a handful of listener submitted questions to ask Seth when we sit down with him. So buckle up! This break of ours is just turning out to be [laughing] less and less of a break.
Jenny: Yeah. What's the break?
Kristin: What is a break?
Jenny: Okay. All right. You've all got a steak on your eye right now. That's S-T-E-A-K.
Kristin: [Laughing] I know. I was like, wait, what?
Jenny: They're nursing the bruise, you just the emotional excitement bruise you just receive from that news. Are you ready for the second part-
Kristin: No, they're not.
Jenny: --of our big announcement? How could they be? We weren't even ready, but I'm going to tell you anyway. In secret, we deceived you, and in secret, we sat down with Charisma Carpenter recently in Los Angeles and talked to her all about her time portraying Cordelia on both Buffy a  nd Angel .
Kristin: Oh my God. Oh my God.
Jenny: She is amazing. We had the best time talking to her. She was so lovely and so funny and great, and we will be airing that interview-- are you ready? On Charisma’s birthday, July 23rd.
Kristin: Which like for the record, we were like, "Are there any important days in July for us to put this episode up?" And she was like, "My birthday is July 23rd." Which I thought was an incredibly wonderful Cordelia-Charisma crossover moment.
Jenny: [Both laughing] Yeah, totally!
Kristin: Yeah. So what?  What are we even doing to you in this introduction?
Jenny: Oh my God. Yeah, it's really-- woo! There's a lot. There's a lot. There's a lot.
Kristin: You know, Jenny, I'm realizing that us telling them what we're doing this summer really doesn't matter anymore because [laughing] all anyone's going to care about-
Jenny: Yeah, everyone is just staring into the middle distance right now with a ringing in their ears and nothing we say in the intro is going to register. 
Kristin: [Excited] Like, what?!
Jenny: But we must sally forth regardless.
Kristin: James Marsters, Seth Green, and Charisma Carpenter all within like months of each other? What's even happening?
Jenny: Yeah, is that a Holy Trinity, or is that a Holy Trinity?
Kristin: [Laughs] Oh wow. Okay. So let us tell you what we are going to be doing this summer. If you do, if you do want to hear more from us and not just play the Charisma and Seth interviews on loop for the rest of your summer, [laughs] I will be doing another podcast that has already begun. It is called To L and Back, and it is an L Word podcast. I, Jenny, I'm like really experiencing a lot of feelings for so many things, but namely for another Jenny who I thought I hated, but it turns out--
Kristin: Yo, Jenny Schecter is like really worming her way into my heart.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: There's like a whole journey happening over there. And that a Season One of To L and Back will go all the way through July. So if you're missing me and your ears, you can hear me, and my journey with Jenny Schecter, Marina, Alice, Dana, Shane, Laura Perkins. Oh my God, there's so much going on over there. So join me and Riese Bernard who is the CEO of Autostraddle and probably a person who knows more about The L Word than anyone else on this planet, we'll be weekly in your ears talking about some lesbian stuff.
Jenny: Mmm Hmm.
Kristin: Speaking of lesbian stuff, New York City Pride is at the end of June and I will be hosting the seventh annual, all ages New York City Pride Party at Housing Works in Brooklyn, Housing Works Bookstore Cafe. So you can follow me in all the places using my name, Kristen Noeline to find out all of those details. I'm very excited.
Jenny: I'm excited for you. And I'm also excited for myself, [Kristin laughs] if I may.
Kristin: You may. bDuring our not so breaky break, I will be doing some music stuff. I'll be releasing some, some Jenny Owen Youngs music for the first time in a while, and I'm going to be announcing details about that very soon. So please join me upon social media. I'm at Jenny Owen Youngs on all platforms. You can also find me at JennyOwenYoungs.com where I will very soon be revealing some musical release plans, information, preorder, merch. Wow. What a time to be alive! I also, as you may or may not know and playing just a few shows in the Northeast in May, and the Boston and Brooklyn shows are sold out, but there are still at the time of this taping a few tickets for Philly left. That's May 18th at Milkboy. You can grab tickets that JennyOwenYoungs.com or at Milkboy's website as well. And that's what I'm getting up to. I wish I could tell you more highly specific things about the music release right now, but [Jenny groans] just tweaking and tweaking and it's almost ready. Okay, cool.
Kristin: We're all going to be ready for it when it's ready for us, Jenny. You know what I mean?
Jenny: [Sighs] Okay. Okay. All right. Thank you.
Kristin: Something that is ready right now for your beer is a new [laughs] beer stein that's in our store-
Jenny: Woo!
Kristin: --that has Isabella Rotman’s "Support your Local Alewife" design on it. One of you out there tweeted a picture of the beer stein full of beer and it looks [laughs] so beautiful.
Jenny: Yeah.
Krisitn: So, thank you, whoever you are out there. We have a lot of new merch out, the store just, you know, so you can get your summer fixins. I'm sure we'll add a couple more things over the summer too. So you should follow us for those updates. Cause like, how could we not do another crop top? We have to!
NOTES: [Kristin laughs]
Jenny: Another crop up, maybe like a nice big Buffering the Vampire Slayer beach towel.
NOTES: [Kristin laughs]
Kristin: Yes.
NOTES: [Crosstalk]
Jenny: Just pitching ideas here, Kristin.
Kristin: It’s just Riley.
Jenny: [Laughing] Oh my god, yes, it’s just Riley.
Kristin: But yeah, we have beer steins. We have new mugs with our logo on them. We have dad hats, which I, honest to God, I’ve worn my dad had every day for the last like three weeks. [Both laugh] And we also have a new enamel pin, designed
by Carra Sykes, that is the two queerest witches of all: Tara and Willow. It's a beautiful birds eye view of them doing their sweaty, sweaty spell [Jenny laughs] that is referred to, lovingly, as the "O Spell." So get on over there, bufferingthevampireslayer.com just click on shop.
Jenny: And hey, speaking of queer witches-- a new jingle alert!
Kristin: Wow, this intro is like more powerful than even the podcast itself!
Jenny: Yeah. This intro was basically a whole episode onto itself.
Krisitn: Alright, buckle up. We got a jingle from Jenny Owen Youngs about two queer witches. That's pretty gay all around.
NOTES: [WILLOW & TARA jingle plays] Moving vending machines, pulling petals off of roses Greek poetry, kittens and you know it's Sweaty work doing spells from a place of love Like Willow and Tara!
Kristin: [Sighs] Jenny, beautiful, beautiful job.
Jenny: Hey, thanks!
Kristin: It's almost like, you know, it's almost like you yourself are queer and
therefore understand-Jenny: I don’t know what you're talking about.
Kristin: [Laughing] Oh, sorry. I didn't mean to-- how rude-- I didn't mean to out you here [laughing] on Buffering the Vampire Slayer. 
Jenny: I only like hunks, actually. [Kristin laughs] How dare you.
Kristin: Beautiful job. I wanna say, as some of you already know, Jenny has a lot of talent, but I'm like a natural talent.
Jenny: [Laughing] A natural talent! Yes.
Kristin: Without any training I have written melodies, you know, for songs like "Halloween" back in Season One. I’ve helped a lot with lyrics, and when Jenny was working on this, I just like without even thinking about it, I just like texted her like some lyrical ideas. And Jenny was so inspired [Jenny laughs] by my off the cuff lyrics that literally moments later, I mean I guess we're both natural talents
because it really took you like-Jenny: Yes, two natural talents.
Kristin: It only took you like literally 20, like not even 20 minutes. And Jenny texted me, like a prankster and was like, "Um, I just like, I think I'm going to fix like a recurring audio issue that we've been having. So like I sent you an email." And the email was titled like "Audio Issue" and I was like, "What is this?" And I hit play and it was the lyrics I had texted her fully arranged to this beautiful secondary jingle for Tara and Willow.
NOTES: [Kristin’s TARA & WILLOW jingle plays] When I say "Spell," you say "Oh!" Spell! Oh! Spell! Oh! When I say "Wolf," you say "No!" Wolf! No! Wolf! No!
Kristin: I was so moved that my, that my text moved you to make-- [Jenny laughs] like it really meant, it just meant a lot to me. So thank you. I felt really seen.
Jenny: You're welcome, and everyone else is welcome, too.
Kristin: I suppose that this will be the jingle segment of our intro because you know what, it's time for Jenny?
NOTES: [SPOOKY NEWS jingle plays] Spooky news!
Kristin: So it's the season finale of Spooky News. And I thought this was-Jenny: Yeah, I hope this one's a doozy. I hope you're ready to wow me and knock my spooky socks off.
Kristin: It is, in the sense of like, you know how when you look above to queer, which is doing a spell, [Jenny laughs] you see like a circle that connects to itself? Like of magic?
Jenny: Sure, sure, sure.
Kristin: Well this is like, this is like the Spooky News circle closing itself, because if you, if you remember the very first-- The reason that Spooky News is a thing is because several months ago I learned that two girls in high school baked one of their grandfather's ashes into cookies and served the cookies to their classmates. And I couldn't stop thinking about it or talking about it for like 1 billion years. So I put it up here in the intro.
Jenny: Jesus.
Kristin: And so Denise B, one of our listeners sent me in this. So many of you send me Spooky News. I love it. I mostly love it. Sometimes I get like 400 messages about terrifying things, but what are you going to do? [Jenny laughs.] Denise B sent in this news story from, uh, it's a town that's spelled L-I-T-I-T-Z, so I would like to call it "Li Titz", Pennsylvania. [Kristin laughs.]
Jenny: Please. Please.
Kristin: Okay. So, so in Lititz, Pennsylvania, this happened at Easter dinner of the home of this woman named Martha. The family learned that she had used her deceased husband, his name was Earl, which I feel is really relevant.
Jenny: Goodbye, Earl!
Kristin: Literally, goodbye, Earl-- her deceased husband, Earl, she used his ashes in the meal. Now just hang tight.
Jenny: [Grossed out] Nnn-- okay.
Krisitn: She didn't tell anybody-Jenny: Oh my god!
Kristin: --until after they finished eating and then she told them all that she had used her late husband's cremated remains in the meal so they could all have a piece of him forever. Which I feel like she didn't remember that, like when you eat it, you don't keep it for-- but okay. [Jenny laughs.] Like metaphysics-- fine, fine, Martha. But in addition, the other piece of this story that tickled me if you-- if I can use that phrasing-- is that she used his ashes in, are you ready? The mashed potatoes, the bread, the cake, and Jenny, even in her homemade marshmallow peeps.
Jenny: What?!
Kristin: Yeah, that's right. So husband-ash marshmallow peeps were involved-Jenny: Uhhh...
Kristin: --in an Easter dinner in Lititz, Pennsylvania.
Jenny: Oh my gosh.
Kristin: This might be my favorite, Spooky News of all for so many reasons.
Jenny: [Laughing] This is real-- it's got something for everyone. Also ash potatoes...
Kristin: Oh, ashed potatoes-- oh God, it's good.
Jenny: Woof.
Kristin: So thank you, Jenny, for listening. Thank you everyone else for listening. This has been your Spooky News.
NOTES: [SPOOKY NEWS jingle plays] Spooky news!
Kristin: All right. Something that's not spooky at all, Jenny, is the fact that today, in addition to our season finale, airing the Angel On Top season finale "To Shanshu in LA" is also airing today. I have heard this episode. It is so wonderful. Britney and Laura are so hysterical. I was like, cry-laughing at several clients of this episode. Also, I do a special segment about my feelings on Cornelia's growth this season. We talk about the queer woman at the art table, which I think is like a really critical pivotal character in this episode. [Jenny and Kristin chuckle.] And I do a Fuck Watch with Brittany and Laura. So there's like a lot of really fun, wonderful stuff. If you are not already listening to Angel On Top, [sing song] you should be!
Jenny: Yeah. And speaking of fun, wonderful stuff, while we're taking our summer hiatus, that is again, increasingly less and less like a hiatus, Angel On Top episodes will also pause and come back with us in the fall. But in the meantime they've got some hot, hot stuff going on over on Patreon for the summer. Number one, my A-#1 favorite thing that they are doing is, are you ready? "Angel On High," which is of course, some, some podcast episodes where Britney and Laura will get high and then discuss Angel-heavy episodes of Buffy the Vampire Slayer for your listening pleasure. They used to do this on Sicker, Sadder World , their Daria podcast and they were some of my favorite episodes. Listening to them talk about stuff while their high is pretty great. And they'll also be doing an Angel watch, a group watch like we do for our Buffy watches, they'll be doing a corresponding Angel watch over the summer for their patrons as well.
Kristin: Yes. And our Patreon schedule as well as Angel On Top’s Patreon schedule is all on our calendar. You can find that by going to bufferingthevampireslayer.com and clicking on events. You can see all of those things, they're all listed for you. I will say that since I've listened to the Angel On Top finale, I know that Brittany and Laura both said during their announcement of "Angel On High" that they are going to be consuming legal California marijuana and being very safe. There will be no driving. There will be no anything, just sitting on the couch discussing our favorite brooding vampire.
Jenny: Well, I feel better already. As always, we want to thank Lauren Klein, our dutiful sound engineer who you can follow on Instagram at @LaurenTaylorKline.
Kristin: Jenny, I think it's time.
Jenny: It's time? Our twenty minute intro is coming to a close?
Kristin: Hey, you know what? It's a great-- it's not-- it's a fun up here! It's not like-- it’s not taxing.
Jenny: There’s a lot, a lot to talk about. And it’s also so hard to say goodbye for the season. Except not goodbye, because we’re doing all that other stuff.
Kristin: You were trying to cue me to sing some Boyz II Men?
Jenny: Sure, yes.Do it. Do it!
Kristin: [Singing to the tune of "It’s So Hard To Say Goodbye to Yesterday" by Boyz II Men] It’s so hard to say goodbye to season four! Hoo!
Jenny: [Laughing] Wow! Oh, that's so nice.
NOTES: [ Buffering the Vampire Slayer I ntro plays]
Jenny: Oh my god. Hello! And welcome to the last episode of Season Four of Buffy the Vampire Slayer , a podcast where we are watching every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer one at a time, spoiler free. I am Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: And I am still Kristin Russo and this week we are doing the second of a
two-part season finale for Season Four, Episode 22: "Restless." Stay tuned at the end of this podcast-- you might've thought it was going to be at the end of the last
one, but actually it's at the end of this one-Jenny: [Evil laugh] Mwah-ha-ha-ha!
Kristin: Part two gets the song-- for an original song written by Jenny recapping the Buffy episode we are discussing.
Jenny: "Restless" was still written and directed by Joss Whedon and still originally aired on May 23rd, 2000.
Kristin: Yes, and this is still the one where Buffy, Willow, Xander, and Giles are experiencing dreams in which they pursued by Sineya. IMDB says a "mysterious figure," but we all know that it's Sineya. We all know we've got a lot more to talk about. If you are just tuning in and you missed the first part, go back and listen to the first part of our discussion of the finale. Because in there we talk about Willow's dream. We talk about Xander's dream. We also have a bit of an interview with David Wells who plays the Cheese Man. And now I believe we are going to sally forth, if you
will-Jenny: I will.
Kristin: --into Giles's dream.
NOTES: [GILES jingle plays] Giles! Hot dad! When you were younger you were real bad But now you're older, you got glasses That help you watch over us! Thank you, Giles!
Kristin: You know, we've talked about it in the, in the last piece of things, but we're getting a very deep, detailed view about what's happening with these characters and what has been going on with them for Season Four in this poem of an episode.
Jenny: Mmm Hmm. Oh my God, it's Olivia.
Kristin: So, well, hold up!
Jenny: Oh my God, I can't wait!
Kristin: It’s not Olivia yet…
Jenny: I can’t possibly wait.
Kristin: ...but it is going to be Olivia.
Jenny: Alright, alright.
Kristin: Which I have a questions about too. But we start with Buffy under hypnosis.
Jenny: Oh, whoops. I didn't even take a note about that.
Kristin: Well, it's really quick, but I found it really interesting because I have like little flashes of memory for, you know, all of the last four seasons. I don't remember every detail, but when I saw this, I immediately went back to the episode, which was a pivotal point for Buffy and Giles where she was turning 18.
Jenny: Oh, "Helpless."
Kristin: "Helpless." And she had to, you know, she had to perform under these crazy circumstances because the Watchers council is full of what Jenny?
NOTES: [THE PATRIARCHY jingle plays] The patriarchy! [thunder clap, evil laughter]
Kristin: That's right. The patriarchy. Anyway, Giles as her watcher was told that he had to like hypnotize her and then give her injections of this thing that would take away her-- it was really dramatic and it was this massive betrayal of trust between them.
Jenny: Mh-hmm.
Krisitn: So I just, I found it to be a very interesting and pointed choice that his whole dream began with him hypnotizing Buffy, because I think Giles remembers it just as much as I do. [Jenny laughs.] It was all I'm trying to say. Then we go to where you would like to get us to.
Jenny: Olivia!
Kristin: Olivia! So Buffy is a child, right? She's over childized, in like overalls, which are pointedly not the overall sadness. [Jenny laughs.] And Olivia is pushing a baby carriage…
Jenny: Yup.
Kristin: ...that is empty.
Jenny: Yeah. It's Buffy’s, I think.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Right?
Kristin: And is of course... Giles was a school librarian and a Watcher and now he is neither. I mean he... he's not an official Watcher. He doesn't really know exactly what his purpose is and he's been struggling with that for the whole season.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: A side of Giles that we don't get to see a lot, but I think is really cool, that's such a big part of this dream is like Giles is an adult man who perhaps thinks sometimes about what it means that he was a Watcher. What it means that he
doesn't really date very much. And like his-Jenny: And the women he does date are like, "I'm terrified of your life. Goodbye."
Kristin: Exactly! And I think that's real and I love that, you know, I wish we, I really do wish that we actually got more of that in the series about Giles. That like, you know, he is making decisions and some things he's not deciding, but similar to Buffy, he's saving the world, and that means that he can't have a normal quote, quote "life." You know, he doesn't have a partner, he doesn't have children. Buffy is kind of his child.
Jenny: Yeah, [Singing a capella to the tune of the Giles jingle] Work dad! Giles!
Both: [Singing] Hot dad!
Kristin: [Singing] When he was older he was-- I mean younger, he was...
Both: [Singing] Real bad!
Kristin: [Singing] And he had glasses and he's so mad, [Jenny laughs.] and now he takes care of us. [Speaking] Is that how it goes?
Both: [Singing] Thank you, Giles!
Kristin: [Clears throat, speaking] So another thing that I thought was cool is that this first scene with Olivia, the baby carriage, Buffy, Giles is in a cemetery/state fair. It's like the hybrid of those two worlds.
Jenny: Yeah. So great. We've got that like great a game that Buffy wants to play
real bad. That's all-Kristin: "I am a vampire!"
Jenny: Ah, yeah. And she misses real wide and Giles it's like, "Buffy, you have a sacred birthright to protect mankind. Don't stick your elbow out."
Kristin: [Laughs] Right. And it's like Giles’s feeling of needing to protect, needing to take care.
Jenny: Mh-mmm, mh-hmm.
Krisitn: I just, small, tiny little thing that I noticed is that at the state fair/cemetery thing, there's a marque behind them that it says "Dirty Gertie’s" and I just...
Jenny: Oh my goodness.
Kristin: You know, it's just there...
Jenny: I wonder what’s going on in there?
Kristin: I wanna know. I wanna go into Dirty Gertie’s.
Jenny: We don't though, we go into Spike's crypt, which has a bajillion lawn gnomes outside.
Kristin: Yes, which is a great detail. How much fun must it have been to create this episode to be like really just sit in a writer's room and be like, ‘What are these like wacky details that we can thread through to make this dreamlike?"
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And they just nail it at every turn. Cause that's, that's totally, you can imagine like waking up being like "I had this dream where I was in the cemetery and I was in Spike’s crypt, but he had so many gnomes. " It's like weird. Like what is your brain doing when it sets you up with these details? So this is, [Jenny laughs.] this is fun. Spike really gets like a starring role in the dreams.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah. It's so great. And he's, you know, an entrepreneur through and through. [Kristin laughs.] They brought a fair into his cemetery, he's going to make a buck.
Krisitn: Yeah. He's, he's basically doing the, the classic "freak show," which is such a staple of so many state fairs, that they would have the "freak show" where you'd go see various humans…
Jenny: Or vampires.
Kristin: It’s so problematic and the actual execution of what a freak show was.
Jenny: Bananas.
Kristin: Yeah, just insane… Insane what this planet does and what our society does that you would pay $5 to see quote "freaks." Which of course are people who don't look or appear the way that society expects them to based on their gender or based on their, whatever it is.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: It's just like really atrocious stuff. But in Spike’s case-Jenny: But in this context, Spike is just looking scary.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: And in black and white.
Kristin: He's doing-- oh my god. Like James Marsters… just absolutely impeccable in his ability to work that coat. I mean, are you kidding?
Jenny: Oh my god, yeah.
Kristin: I mean, his poses, his like everything that he does is just fucking brilliant. If you didn't listen to our interview with James, it's definitely one of the highlights of my life was to talk to him that you should go check it out. But this is really funny. And it also switches to black and white, which is a fun, you know, cause we were doing a lot with lighting. We're doing a lot with like all these sorts of things. And so Spike's segment is in black and white.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah. But when it flashes back to Giles and like Olivia, like watching him, that's in color.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Which is cool.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: That we’re going back and forth. Also just want to like pop in here to say that in the director's commentary track for this episode at this point, Joss talks a bit about how obviously we're seeing like Giles is like, "What is my life?" He doesn't
know if he wants to be a father, if he wants to be a rock star-Kristin: [Laughing] Right.
Jenny: --if he wants to just give the boring exposition in every episode of Buffy.  And then he, Joss said, "Ultimately, I just decided to combine the latter two for this dream." As we move like... when we eventually get to the Bronze in a second, he's kind of like rocking out as we've been seeing him do increasingly lately. And also just like saying everything that's coming to mind in terms of what's really going on here.
Kristin: Right. And before, of course, we go to the Bronze, well, two things: Spike says to Giles, "Make up your mind."
Jenny: Mh-hmm.
Kristin: Which is an important line. It's again, like underlining this dichotomy of like, "What are you, are you this or are you that, man? At the time to decide now you gotta figure out what your life is." And then of course we get the third appearance of the Cheese Man! Definitely checkout the first part of our finale where you can hear us talking to David Wells and he says what I think is the most known line of the Cheese Man is in Giles’ dream, which is "I wear the cheese, it does not wear me."
Jenny: Which actually I learned is just poking fun at a line that Leo DiCaprio says in the modern version of The Man in the Iron Mask .
Kristin: What?!
Jenny: "I wear the mask. It does not wear me."
Kristin: Wow!
Jenny: So put that in your pipe and smoke it.
Kristin: That's really a good behind the scenes little snippet. So we go to the
Bronze-Jenny: Slash-Both: Giles's apartment!
NOTES: [Both laugh.]
Kristin: This is great-- his couch and his lamp are set up in the Bronze. Very,
very-Jenny: The most dream.
Kristin: Totally.
Jenny: Anya is doing stand up.
Kristin: Her calling! Okay, let's just give a minute here for Anya’s joke. I just, let's
just all get to hear it together:
NOTES: [Clip from the episode plays]
Anya: Okay. A man walks into the office of a doctor. He's wearing on his head, um... Oh wait, there's a duck, is that right?
Guy From Audience: You suck!
Anya: Quiet, you'll miss the humorous conclusion.
Anya: And then the duck tells the doctor that "There's a man that's attached to my ass!" [Crowd laughs] You see, it was the duck and not the man that spoke.
Jenny: How are they going to get that man off that Duck's ass?
Kristin: Oh, Anya. Oh Anya. I love like, I feel like Anya and Spike really occupy very similar roles in the dreams. Like they're like supporting characters to like help us, you know, get to the next place or like understand something about the other
character-Jenny: Or like have fun while we're just getting some like...
Kristin: Information.
Jenny: ...nebulous, kind of like a psychic narrative about the other characters.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Okay. So are you ready for some shit?
Kristin: I'm ready for some shit.
Jenny: Giles gets up on stage and he's all like, [Singing] "Willow check the Chronicles, of course they stuff have is happening." [Speaking] And he's telling us all kinds of stuff about, "Oh my gosh, I must be the first watcher. Oh my gosh, a disturbance must've been caused by us, like doing the spell," whatever. All right. The gentleman playing the piano on stage at the Bronze is Christophe Beck who scores the series. Joss wrote the exposition that needed to be delivered [Kristin laughs] and then Christophe Beck just scored and arranged it.
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: That's right. So that's what they're doing up there. [Jenny laughs.] Well, Giles is just like leaning the mic forward. Everybody's got their a lighter's up. He looks great, he looks natural.
Kristin: Yeah. So, and I don't think that you're going to get through this episode with a us playing some of Giles a song of course, but I actually want to talk about some of the stuff that is said, I think before Giles starts singing. Which is Willow and Giles are talking and she's saying, you know, there's some things after us and it's your fault. And they talk about Sineya again without using her name. They just say there's, "It's a primal force." And I, you-- we keep sort of like lightly touching on this today. I think we're going to get into it much more. Obviously when we get to Buffy’s dream, but just want to put a little underline here though. Like once again, we're not saying this person's name, we're not treating them like they are a human, they're just a force and energy. And I think the word that is used in the episode as well as in the director's commentary is "primitive," which sort of gets at the heart of this whole issue and why this is so problematic. But we'll get more into it in a minute.
Jenny: Oof.
Kristin: Giles is singing, Jenny has explained to us where the music came from. I said to Kate left before we started doing this episode, I said, Kate, you know, you gotta give us a finale Fashion Watch, of course. And I would love to play Giles a song and then let the listeners just roll right out of that song into your beautiful, dulcet tones. [Jenny laughs.] And she, she was into it. So we're gonna play a little snippet of Giles singing. And then right when you get most excited, and we're going to get you even more excited with a fashion watch from Kate Leth.
NOTES: [Clip from episode plays]
Giles: [Singing] It's strange, it's not like anything we've faced before It seems familiar somehow Of course The spell we cast with Buffy must have released some primal evil that's come back seeking I'm not sure what Willow, look through the chronicles for some reference to a warrior beast I've got to warn Buffy There's every chance she might be next And Xander help Willow And try not to bleed on my couch I've just had it steam-cleaned. No wait…
NOTES: [Feedback from mic.]
Kate: Well hello there and welcome back to Buffy Fashion Watch as we wrap up Season Four. I would like to give Giles a special thanks for singing me into this strange, beautiful, problematic, interesting, very, very different episode that closes out Season Four and ushers us into Season Five as mysteriously as possible. Now there's a lot of fashion to talk about in this episode because in everyone's dreams everyone's wearing different outfits and costumes. But I would like to take a moment to really appreciate Harmony's dirndl. The word for that sort of Bavarian peasant dress, a Tavern whench outfit that she's wearing that I learned when I got really deep into the weeds last year trying to buy a nice one for the LA Renaissance Faire, which is known as the Pleasure Faire, which is terrible. The a name not the faire. The faire is pretty fun. And partly because I refuse to discuss what Willow and Tara are wearing in Xander's dream because it is so distressing. I would like to talk for just a quick second about Willow's nightmare and now Willow's nightmare sees her dressed the way that she was in Season One. And I think that that's so interesting because all of her dream, obviously we're talking about, you know, "People are gonna find out who you are, people are going to find out the real you." And we think, you know, maybe that has to do with their sexuality or with the witchcraft. And then it's, no, that she's still a huge nerd. And that's really interesting to me because so much of how Willow changes and evolves is really reflected in her clothing and in her hair, even though she's still
wearing, you know, kind of goofy stuff: sarongs and bright colors and you know, all the, all the things that were very popular if you were kind of a free spirit in that particular point in time. But it really does show how much she's changed. You know, we've seen her come from these giant fuzzy sweaters and terrible fleece hats and oversized corduroy pants and now she does dress a little bit more fashionable and she does kind of show off her figure a little bit and, and you know, part of that is growing up and getting older in the character growing up and getting older. But I just love that moment and I don't really have a particularly insightful opinion other than that. I think it's great that Willow's greatest fear is that she had no character progression. It makes sense. You know, she's smart. Like how Harry Potter's greatest fear is fear itself because he's afraid of the dementors when they show up in the boggart-- you know what I'm talking about, right? Right. Anyway, Riley wears both a cowboy outfit and a suit. It's a whole situation. Buffy’s cherry dress at the end is wonderful because it really symbolizes how different she is from the First Slayer whose whole deal I am not even going to touch. Now I'm going to wrap this up because I live near an airport and they keep letting planes take off despite how many times I ask them not to, and my Audacity keeps crashing. So I'd like to say thank you for joining us for Season Four. I am excited to come back for season five because, oh boy, there are some outfits. Until next time, I'll see you at the mall.
NOTES: [Fashion Watch outro theme plays] That was our friend Kate She gave you the Buffy fashion update!
Kristin: Oh my gosh, Kate Leth. Kate Leth having some audio issues there at the end because of the planes and her in her neighborhood, [Jenny laughs] which is kind of like immersive theater here because we leave the Bronze with feedback, which is another audio issue.
Jenny: Ah, yes. And then Giles is maybe looking for the source of the feedback and as many a musician has experienced, [Krisitn laughs] sometimes you have to follow your mic cable offstage back into the back, the same backstage area that Willow… is that right?
Kristin: It seems like the same backstage.
Jenny: It seems pretty darn similar. And then he just comes upon a great heap of straganona…
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: …like a spaghetti cabling.
Kristin: Uh-huh. And then, okay, so Giles says, "I can defeat this, I can defeat Sineya--" Of course nobody's saying her name, but "I can defeat her with my intellect." And, and one of the things is, is really starting to be underlined here. And it gets even more into it when we get to Buffy his dream, but it's sort of like Western civilization was framed directly up against, being more advanced then and therefore superior to other people, specifically black people. And so there's many layers of problems with the treatment of the First Slayer, the treatment of Sineya. And one of them is really underlined with this moment that Giles has, where he's like, "I have intellect, so I can defeat you." It's an issue.
Jenny: He also says, tipping the hand of the episode the most to us as, as it has been up to this point, "You never had a Watcher."
Kristin: Yes. 59%
Jenny: So now this is the window that's open for us.
Kristin: Right, right. And, uh, Jenny, how does Giles-Jenny: Oh my god! He gets de-brained!
Kristin: He gets de-brained. He gets like scalped, right? It's like that's the-Jenny: Scalped and then probably the whole brain goes.
Kristin: Yeah, definitely. And I think maybe, maybe people know now that we're at dream three-[Jenny sings a fanfare]
Kristin: --that of course the way that each Scooby is attacked by Sineya is directly
related to their power from-Jenny: --within the context of the spell from "Primeval."
Kristin: Exactly.
Jenny: Support for today’s episode comes from Care/of. Make 2020 the year to prioritize you and commit to staying on top of your health. Instead of that laundry list of resolutions you don’t end up sticking with, Care/of can make taking your vitamins and supporting you health goals attainable. Care/of’s short online quiz makes it easy. Just answer some simple questions about your diet, health, goals, and lifestyle, and Care/of will recommend a list of vitamins and supplements specifically for your health needs and goals, whether it’s improving your fitness routine or improving stress. And you can follow Care/of’s expert recommendations, or adjust your pack at any time. What you receive is totally up to you. I’ve been using Care/of for a while now, I think they're great. I loved taking the online quiz, it was super simple and straightforward, and they gave me a variety of things to choose form that they thought might be useful to me. I picked what I wanted, including some vitamins and also some plant-based protein powder. I’ve been using those products ever since, and they’re great. The protein powder in particular is delicious in my opinion. For 50% off your first Care/of order, go to takecareof.com and enter code BUFFERING50. That’s takecareof.com and code BUFFERING50 for 50% off your first Care/of order.
Kristin: Today’s episode is brought to you by PrettyLitter. If you're like me and you’re hiding out during the long winter months, it means there's a lot of downtown inside you house. And if you're a cat owner, you might be apprehensive of being within nose-shot of your litter box for hours on end, especially if its due for a refresh. Thanks to PrettyLitter you can get odorless litter delivered right to your door. PrettyLitter is kitty litter reinvented. Unlike traditional litter, PrettyLitter’s super light crystals trap odor and release moisture, resulting in dry, low-maintenance litter that does not smell. PrettyLitter is virtually dust-free because it’s manufactured with a specialized dedusting process. PrettyLitter also ships in a small lightweight bag that lasts and entire month. No more bulky containers or frequent trips to the store. But above all else, PrettyLitter monitors your cats health by changing colors when it detects potential underlying issues. My and my cats, Sam and Gus, are big fans of PrettyLitter. All of the elements of PrettyLitter are pretty awesome, but especially we love the fact that it is on its own schedule. It’s delivered to our door and so I never forget to get them new litter. You should make the switch today. Go to PrettyLitter.com, use promo code BUFFY and you’ll get 20% off your first order. That's PrettyLitter.com, promo code BUFFY.
Kristin: Today's episode is brought to you by Aurate. Aurate is a jewelry brand that is founded by women and is made ethically here in New York City. Pieces range from classic to statement to completely original. If you're a jewelry lover, trust me, this is the stuff you always want to find, but never can. Aurate makes real gold accessible by selling directly to you without the middleman markup. They offer the same quality as the fancy, expensive brands at a fraction of the cost. All of Aurate’s pieces come with a lifetime warranty, because they know that their jewelry lasts. I have a couple of really beautiful pieces from Aurate. I have a gold cuff that goes up the top of your ear that you can wear without a piercing. I love it so much. And I also have a really beautiful necklace that’s a gold bar. It’s really simple and beautiful. And both pieces, the cuff especially is just something I think I’ll have for the rest of my life. It's really, really high quality and I love the way that it looks. For 15% off of your first Aurate purchase, go to Auratenewyork.com/buffy and use promo code BUFFY. That's A-U-R-A-T-E-NewYork dot com slash Buffy, use code BUFFY for 15% off your first purchase.
Krisitn: So, Jenny…
Jenny: Well, we come to it at last.
Kristin: Ah, the dream of Buffy.
Jenny: Buffy’s dream.
Kristin: The Buffy dream. Yes, we've made it to the fourth quadrant of this double episode and we're going to get a chance to talk to Lauren Eggert-Crowe, who is a
writer, a poet, and also-Jenny: The creator-Kristin: --and curator of a Hamilton in Sunnydale on tumblr and @Sunnydaleham
on Twitter, which-Jenny: It rocks!
Kristin: --rocks. And we'll let Lauren talk to you more about that in a second. We're going to have some conversation with her about Buffy’s dream and about the episode as a whole, but let's, let's get into some specifics first, Jenny. Anya is roommates with Buffy in Buffy’s dream.
Jenny: Yeah! Totally.
Krisitn: What’s the meaning there?
Jenny: Or they're just having a slumber party.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Cause Willow's always staying over at Tara's [sarcastically] for some reason.
Kristin: Oh, you think that like in Buffy subconscious, she feels like maybe a little jealous of Willow's closeness to Tara?
Jenny: Or like lonely?
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Aw.
Kristin: And like needs a pal and Anya’s around?
Jenny: Anya’s great pal.
Kristin: And Anya’s probably so tired from steering that ice cream truck with no-Jenny: [Laughing] I thought you're going to say so tired from dealing with Xander being a Viking in the sack.
NOTES: [Kristin laughs.]
Kristin: Also that so, okay. So after we get this moment between Anya and Buffy,
that's pretty short lived-Jenny: And we see Sineya on the ceiling!
Kristin: Right. We see Sineya on the ceiling, which is very scary. Anything on the ceiling is just--
Jenny: Bad. Nothing good ever comes from the ceiling. [Crosstalk]
Kristin: No, that makes me think of...
Both: Trainspotting ?
Kristin: There's a baby on the-- [groans] Oh yeah. I don't, you know me, everybody, I don't remember anything. And I remember that baby on that ceiling. So we go to, from Buffy dorm room into Buffy’s sort of childhood bedroom. She's there and she says to Tara, who's now there, "Faith and I just made that bed."
Jenny: And Tara’s all, "For who?" And we're like, [sarcastically] "I don't know!" [Kristin laughs.]
Jenny: [Singing] "But it's 7:30 AM!"
Kristin: Yes,and of course this is a spoiler free podcast, but wink, wink, nod, nod everybody.
Jenny: Yes, many winks, many nods.
Kristin: We know, we know. And one day you all will know.
Jenny: Stop writing your email right now explaining to us who the bed is being made for. [Crosstalk.]
Kristin: --what 7:30 means.
Jenny: Oh my gosh, is it a tarot card or a Tara card?
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: I should go.
Kristin: So-Jenny: I make sure my secre- Tara always has a Tara deck on hand. [Kristin laughs.]
Kristin: So we're going to talk to Lauren a little bit about the, the Manus tarot card here to-- I'm sorry, Jenny, the Manus Tara card.
Jenny: Thank you.
Kristin: You're welcome. And Tara says to Buffy-Jenny: [Gasps] Can I say it? Can I say it?
Kristin: You may.
Jenny: [dramatically, imitating Tara] "You think you know what's to come? What you are? You haven't even begun." [Speaking normally] What's wrong with me? Why did I want to do that so bad?
Kristin: I don’t know. It's also like, I know the inside scoop, which is that yesterday we taped a segment with this and you said it the same way. You're really excited to say that line over and over again. Also, it always makes me think of the… that Britney Spears like, "You think you know, but you have no idea."
Jenny: You mean the-Kristin: What’s it?
Jenny: MTV, what is it? Real Life?
Kristin: Real Life? Yeah. "You think you know." [Clip from MTV’s Diary plays]
Britney Spears: You think you know, but you have no idea. This is the diary of Britney Spears,
Jenny: "But really you have no idea" [Kristin laughs.]
Kristin: Which is kind of what Tara is saying. And she says to Buffy, "Be back before Dawn."
Jenny: [Gasps dramatically] What could it mean?
Krisitn: We move to school where Joyce is in the wall.
Jenny: Dude.
Kristin: And this is, of course, I think that this is definitely Buffy struggling with her feelings of change this year. She's always lived with Joyce, especially after the divorce and the move to LA. It's been her and Joyce in the house doing their mom-daughter thing.
Jenny: Sure.
Kristin: And as we learned, Buffy is, you know, not picking up her mail. She's not been spending a lot of time with Joyce.
Jenny: Nope, nope.
Kristin: She did save Joyce's life-Jenny: Thank you.
Kristin: But you know, their closeness is shifting, and that's weird. Which is a memory I have from leaving my home. And you know, I was mostly excited to leave my home, but I also had feelings of guilt and confusion about how to interact with my family in this new way when I didn't live-- you know?
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: It's easy to have a relationship-- I mean, not easy, but it's, it's like your relationship is kind of built in when you live at home. And then when you really have to make an effort to be like, "Let’s have dinner together." or "Do you want to come and meet me for lunch?" It's a very different thing.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: So I think that's what we're seeing here. [Jenny laughs.]
Jenny: And she's got this whole bit about a mouse playing with her knees and Buffy's all like, "Mom, I really don't think you should live in the walls." And like they're having this conversation about whether she should stay in there or not. And then of course, as soon as Joyce is like, "Well you are pretty strong, you could probably break me out of the wall--"
Kristin: [Laughing] "Break me out of the wall."
Jenny: --Buffy has gotten distracted and moved on.
Kristin: Zoom. Okay, before we get too far into Buffy's dream, let's get into the conversation that we had with Lauren because we talk about things like Riley calling Buffy a killer, we talk about the Manus card, we talk about the problematic nature of Sineya, and I think that our conversation with Lauren was really fun. So let's, let's go over there Jenny, and then when we come back out the other end, we'll say some more about Buffy strain.
Jenny: Yes! [CHIME]
Krisitn: All right. So Jenny and I are here with Lauren Eggert-Crowe who is a writer, a poet in fact, and who also is responsible for Hamilton in Sunnydale, which is as I just learned more than a Twitter. It is a Twitter and a Tumblr.
Lauren: That's true.
Kristin: I know it as Twitter and it's wonderful. Do you want to explain what Hamilton in Sunnydale is for those few who might not know?
Lauren: Yes. So Hamilton and Sunnydale or @sunnydaleham on Twitter is a mashup of Hamilton and Buffy. So it has screenshots from Buffy the Vampire Slayer
with lyrics from Hamilton overlaid on it-Kristin: It's so good.
Lauren: --trying to find themes that are relevant to each other. And then sometimes on Twitter I also have Buffy quotes with Hamilton gifs.
Kristin: Oh!
Lauren: Yes. Sometimes I switch it up a little bit, you know?
Kristin: So long ago when we first met, you were like, "Here's the deal: [Lauren laughs] ‘Restless’." Like, we were like Season Two, you know what I mean? You were like, "I just... ‘Restless.’ Okay?" So now we're here, we're in "Restless," we're talking about "Restless," we’re at the end of Season Four, and you have a lot of feelings and thoughts and I thought, you know, it would be amazing to just sit and chat with you about some of these things.
Lauren: I love this episode so much. A, because I'm a poet and restless is such a poetic, lyrical, surreal, dreamy episode. And I think, and I think other people believe this too, is that it provides the emotional blueprint for where the characters have been and where they're going. There's so much foreshadowing in it, which this is a spoiler-free podcast, [Jenny laughs] so we won’t talk about... but it also talks about what the characters have been dealing with for the last four seasons. We've had some really plot heavy seasons. And Season Four, like we had Adam, and the Initiative, and Faith coming back, and Buffy going to see Angel, and there's so much… And I feel like "Restless" is like this lyrical pause where we're like, "Okay, yeah, now let's, let's transition to, let's really deepen what we're thinking about the mythology of the show. Where does Buffy come from? What does it mean to be a Slayer versus being a killer?" And we've also, we've learned that in the
Whedon-verse, they love dream sequences. Like, "If there's anything we know-Jenny: They’re so good at that. [Kristin and Jenny laugh.]
Lauren: I know! And dream sequences as we've learned so important in the Whedon-verse. It's like where the characters, like they download messages from the universe. It sounds very "LA." [All laughing]
Krisitn: It sounds very "Adam."
Lauren: [Laughing] It does! They take little a, you know, hard drive in their chest-Kristin: Yeah and insert them-Lauren: But so people who are into magic say that dreams are where we psychically digest what we've been thinking, what we've been feeling, everything we've been processing. And so "Restless" is sort of like where the characters get to do that. And we get to use like visual cues like imagery and lighting and callbacks to previous seasons and all these other like surreal elements that help us see where are the characters… where they're at and how they're feeling.
Krisitn: Yeah. Yeah, in a way that really doesn't happen. In a way it happens sometimes in more heavy handed ways throughout the season, but not in a comprehensive way like we see in this episode.
Lauren: Yeah, "Restless" really goes for it. Like there's definitely danger and there's a fight scene, but it's mostly the characters interiority, which is pretty cool.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Mh-hmm.
Kristin: You specifically like, I mean you love the whole episode, but Buffy’s dream is the one that like is the heaviest, in your experience, the one that you wanted to talk about the most.
Lauren: Yes. Right. So I think Buffy’s dream is my favorite because I think it gets to the heart of the emotional conflict, which is at the center of this series, which is… it's between the isolation of being special and chosen versus the like pain and vulnerability that comes with letting people in and being in community.
Jenny: Mh-hmm.
Lauren: So Buffy is always pulled between that. She's set apart, she's the Slayer, but she also has these friends. But people can hurt you and leave you and abandon you. And as we've seen many times in this theory, so she's always kind of like trying to decide if she is alone or is if she has people to support her.
Kristin: Right.
Lauren: And so the first layer is following them all through their dreams as punishment for the enjoining spell. [Jenny laughs.]
Lauren: And it's, but that's also sort of… They keep saying "This is like nothing we've ever faced before" because they're… I think they're also facing the psychic damage that can from all of the time they spend with like death and destruction and violence.
Jenny: Mm.
Lauren: Like they have been fighting and killing things and been in danger and being like experiencing trauma for four years now. Like, what can that do to a person?
Jenny: Truly.
Kristin: Yeah.
Lauren: And, and I think that they have like all of them, but maybe especially Buffy because she is the Slayer and she has this weight on her shoulders like they have to contend with. What does that mean for them? Like, how do they keep moving forward? How do they not lose themselves and lose each other in the process of fighting all the time. It's like what Xander said to Buffy when she was on her way to kill Faith and Season Three, he said, "I don't want to lose you." And they're all like, that's kind of what they're always grappling with. They're always on that line of like walking that line between light and darkness.
Kristin: Do you think that that is then what Sineya is also symbolizing? As like the, the side of things, sort of the mentality that all the other Slayers have had to have where they lose their friends, they don't have friendships, they don't have
whatever-Lauren: Right.
Kristin: --because really the only way up until now to do that kind of killing and fighting is to lose yourself.
Lauren: Right, exactly. And she says, she says, "No friends. Just to kill. We are alone." And she says that "I just live in the penetrating wound and the blood cry" and "I live in the action of death." Like that's a very lonely existence and that's what… that Buffy comes from. There's problematic stuff about that that we'll talk about later, but like it's definitely like Buffy is grappling with where she comes from, the source of her power, which is violence and darkness and chaos. And how does she live with that? How does she not stuff it into a box and ignore it? And how does she not completely succumb to it and still be a human and still like be a person?
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Yeah. And we know that like Buffy and every Slayer is imbued with a sort of supernatural physical strength…
Lauren: Right.
Jenny: But I dunno, like I feel like up to this point in the series we've seen maybe some indication that she's also imbued with a like psychological strength and might be like a step or two ahead of her friends. But I don't know if that's like, because of experience or training or if she just straight up like has this ability, like a greater ability to, to deal with what she is doing on a daily basis that comes with the strength. Like the… It comes with the physical.
Lauren: Yeah, I think so. I mean, I think she has that Slayer's intuition, which is why she's always having prophetic dreams.
Jenny: Right, right.
Lauren: She's part of a line of women who are fighting evil and who have both mental and emotional strength as well as physical strength.
Jenny: Mh-hmm, mh-hmm.
Kristin: I think and, you know, I'm sure you're going to talk about this as well, but it's just like the thing that is… There are a lot of problematic things, but one of the biggest ones for me is in her ignoring of Sineya that like-- isn't it-- This episode doesn't see her take Sineya’s words and wisdom and experience in any way, shape or form.
Lauren: Right.
Kristin: It just sees her say like, I got it, I've got this. And like as a, as a queer woman, that was very striking to me because I thought I, you know, like so much of my life is looking to my history and like the people who have come before me, the work that they've done and using that and not saying like, "Ah, sorry, I got this now. I don't need--" And that was very unSlayer-like like of Buffy, I thought.
Lauren: Yeah, I thought so, too.
Jenny: But it's not so far removed from behavior we might expect to see from a 20 year old girl.
Kristin: Right. Or 20 year old boy. A 20 year old white girl too, if we're going to put the race into this. [Crosstalk] [Jenny and Lauren agreeing.]
Kristin: And yeah, she's... Once Sineya speaks, we're like, "Oh, Sineya is speaking!" and Buffy is like, "Yeah, I'm good."
Lauren: The Whedon-verse loves an inner struggle, and I think that that… Like so if Sineya is supposed to represent Buffy’s inner darkness and violence and then that's why they're wrestling and fighting, but like that's so racist to have a black woman be a metaphor for how a white woman achieved self actualization.
Jenny: Oof.
Kristin: Right.
Lauren: Like Buffy goes to like generic Africa, which represents desolation and loneliness and like, then Sinia like doesn't get to be a full human, she has just this metaphor that represents Buffy’ inner source and Buffy is like-- says a racist thing about her hair, and like, she's like, "You're not the source of me." Well actually
like-Jenny: Kind of like literally. 
Lauren: Right!
Kristin: You clearly are!
Lauren: Yes! Yeah! Like maybe we should actually give some reverence to the First
Slayer and ask her what she went through. And-Kristin: And apologize for pissing her off! Yes, like she's, she's fucking angry and she's angry for a reason and like, it just doesn't seem at any point that anyone is, in this episode, and I know, you know, this is a spoiler-free podcast, so there is more to say about scenario, which we can talk about here, but we eventually will. But even with that context, it's still like in this episode, we hear from her very little, most of what we hear from her is via Tara who is speaking for her. Certainly I think I have room for, I would imagine that we all have room for like the idea that there's a lineage that, you know, that things were done differently, that Buffy is doing things differently. She has friends, no Slayer’s before her, as we've learned, have had that community, but it just seems like that story could have been told where there was some reverence for, like you said, the source of it all.
Lauren: Right.
Krisitn: So, okay, so obviously there's some problematic stuff here, but in addition
to all of that, there's a lot going on in Buffy’s dream--Lauren: Yes!
Kristin: --that I know are you want to talk about.
Lauren: Yes, there is. Okay. So there's a couple things. There's a scene where she's in her bedroom and she says "Faith and I just made that bed," which is a callback to the dream sequence in "This Year’s Girl."
Krisitn: Mh-hmm.
Lauren: And she and Faith are making that bed.
Jenny: Mh-hmm!
Lauren: I have recently been thinking that… you know the expression "you made your bed, now lie in it"?
Kristin: Mh-hmm.
Lauren: So she and Faith in "Bad Girls" really kind of went to that dark side. Buffy touched the chaos and faith enticed her into this sort of like thrill of aggression and then Buffy like later tried to kill Faith. So Buffy has like, she has-- she's gone to that dark side. She has touched that place within her that once-- that craves to like be aggressive and to hunt and to take what she can get, and now she has to deal with those consequences. You know, she keeps saying "A Slayer is not the same thing as a killer." And Riley keeps calling her "killer" in that dream. And so she kind of has to deal with "Well, where does my power come from?"
Krisitn: It's really interesting because it is the struggle that we've seen her facing for the whole series, but certainly once Faith came around was when she was like, "I'm-- but I'm not that. I'm not that thing." But truthfully, she is.
Lauren: She is. The other thing from that part of the dream, so Tara hands her the tarot card of Manus, and because I'm a huge tarot geek, I did Buffy’s numerology for her soul and shadow card in the tarot. [Crosstalk.]
Jenny: Go off! [Lauren laughing.]
Krisitn: We’re listening.
Lauren: Yeah, so if you calculate Buffy’s birthdate, you get her soul card, which is the Empress. So that's like Buffy as the prom queen, Buffy with friends, Buffy this happy, sunny, Southern California girl. Her shadow card is the Hanged One, which
is all about martyrdom and sacrifice-Kristin: Wow.
Lauren: --and kind of being bound by outside forces. So she's bound by her sacred birth rate and she's always sacrificing herself, and she has these two sides of herself.
Jenny: [Whispering] Oh my god.
Lauren: So it's all about like… This episode is all about light and darkness and reconciling the two of them.
Kristin: Mh-hmm.
Lauren: --and becoming a whole person that way.
Kristin: Wow. Thank you for being here with us.
Lauren: Thank you for having me.
Kristin: And talking about "Restless."
Lauren: Thank you so much for having me.
Kristin: Oh my gosh, yes!
Jenny: Hell yeah!
Kristin: Thank you. Really, like the perspective that you brought and also bring as a writer, as a poet, and also as somebody who is obviously deeply entrenched [Lauren laughs] in the Buffy-verse is really amazing. And for an episode like this, I think it's so cool like that we could, I mean-- So many people could watch this episode and like, "Okay, what's the thing that like really stuck out to you?" And it's like everybody's going to have something diff-- It's really that kind of episode.
Lauren: Yeah.
Kristin: So it's been really awesome to hear your perspective.
Jenny: Yeah.
Lauren: Thank you.
Kristin: You bring these things into the, into the fold.
Lauren: Thank you so much.
Kristin: Yeah! [CHIME]
Kristin: Thank you Lauren for talking to us. We really… This has been a really fun
journey through this episode. We've had so many fun conversations-Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: --with so many people. And yeah! Let's talk about some of the things that maybe we didn't talk about with Lauren.
Jenny: [Calm, robotic voice] "The demons have escaped. Please run for your life."
Kristin: [Laughing] That's a good voice over.
Jenny: Thank you! So there's that ! But don't worry, Riley and Adam have a plan. They're going to make a pillow fort…
Kristin: A pillow fort!
Jenny: …to, uh, defend themselves against the escaped demons
Kristin: Wow. What, Jenny, is a better segue to the Sexual Tension Award [Jenny gasps] than Riley building a pillow fort?
Jenny: Awooga! [SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays] Sexual tension award!
Kristin: Wow. Welcome. Welcome. Welcome one and all.
Jenny: There comes a time in a young girl's life when it's the Sexual Tension Awards again !
Kristin: Wow. It’s a very exciting time for all of us, including Emily McLongstreet. [Jenny laughs.] She who runs the Sexual Tension Award bracket. A bracket which will begin running as soon as this week's poll has ended. So if you want to be part, now every other week, you get the chance to be a part of the democracy that is
choosing a winner for the episode. But it is quite a responsibility-Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: --to be a part of the bracket that happens during the off season where we choose the winner for the entire season.
Jenny: Are you prepared? Are you up to the challenge? Are you ready to take the bull by the horns?
Kristin: Wow, Jenny. Got any other weird sex metaphors over there?
Jenny: [Krisitn laughing.] What the hell? Who's having sex with a bull around here? Anyway…
Kristin: We’ll talk off-mic.
Jenny: [Laughing] Yeah!
Kristin: Okay, so let me first tell you all the winners of the sSexual Tension Award poll from "Primeval," Season Four, Episode 21. In last place, our thruple. 13% for Adam and Spike and Riley. Apparently it was just a little too much man for all of you.
Jenny: Uh-huh, uh-huh, uh-huh.
Kristin: You know what I mean? Just one too many muscles.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And floppy disks. [Jenny and Kristin laugh.]
Jenny: I don't think any of those discs would be floppy, given the opportunity.
Kristin: Ayo! In third place we have [singing to the tune of "Un-Break My Heart" by Toni Braxton] "decrypt my code!" [Jenny laughs.] Willow and decryption. I want to say that, we don't talk about Angel because Brittany Ashley and Laura Zak to do. But Jenny, there's a really fun moment in "Blind Date", which is the 21st episode of Angel , so they aired back to back…
Jenny: Uh-huh, uh-huh.
Kristin: …where Cordelia-Jenny: Oh my god-- is on the phone with Willow!
Kristin: With Willow!
Jenny: And they’re decrypting also.
Kristin: They’re decrypting, too! It’s so great. And what's even more fun? And they talked about this on Angel On Top , you should really be listening, it's a joy. Alexis
Dennis off and Alison Hannigan, now Alison Dennis off-Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: --began dating at the beginning of-- you know, like sort of like when Alexis moved to the Angel show. And so what's really fun about the scene in Angel where they're decrypting the code is that Cordelia says to Wesley, "Willow says ‘hi’."
Jenny: Oh yeah! [Kristin laughs.]
Kristin: Which is just cute and fun cause they were dating.
Jenny: That is cute.
Kristin: Okay, I have to stay on track. Second place in our Sexual Attention Award pole for "Primeval" is Spike and Buffy with 30%.
Jenny: Nice.
Kristin: Not a poor showing, but 4% extra [Jenny laughs] was given to the winner. 34% went to Zombie Forrest and Riley. [Jenny laughs.]
Jenny: Oh, god!
Krisitn: Wou know, we have been-- Forrest has been waiting for that for the whole season.
Jenny: [Singing] It's been a long time coming!
Krisitn: Yeah, I think well deserved, Forrest. RIP.
Jenny: Congrats.
Kristin: And your trophy is in the… mail?
Jenny: Mail? Yeah, your trophy is in morgue.
Kristin: It’ll be arriving to your… crypt? [Kristin laughs.] [Clip from the episode plays.]
Forrest: This the best thing that ever happened to me. I'm free of all my weaknesses. My doubts. He’s going to fix you up too, soon as he’s got some choice parts. And you and me will be back on the same side, moving toward a new future.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: All right, Jenny, what are we got? Season finale! Sexual Tension!
Jenny: Here we go. We've, uh, we've got some hot, hot, hot contenders for this
episode. They are the following couplings: First of all, for that opening scene where Giles wanted to make sure Joyce didn't want to join them to watch some blockbuster videos, it's Giles and Joyce.
Kristin: Yes! I love a Giles and Joyce.
Jenny: Two adults! [Kristin laughs.]
Kristin: Two adults, one bathrobe, one pair of glasses.
Jenny: [Laughing] Oh my god.
Krisitn: What will happen? [Jenny laughs.]
Jenny: Okay. I'm also, you know, if that's not quite your taste, we've also got a nomination in place for Joyce and Xander.
Kristin: Joyce is coming out hot in this episode.
Jenny: Well, I mean, look at that nightie.
Both: ["The Lady In Red" by Chris de Burgh playing, both singing along.] Lady in red! Is dancing with me! [Music fades out.]
Jenny: [Speaking] Beautiful!
Kristin: [Still singing] Cheek to cheek!
Jenny: Alright.
Kristin: [Speaking] I just have to get to the cheek to cheek part.
Jenny: Yikes.
Kristin: Okay?!
Jenny: Okay!
Krisitn: Who else we got, Jenny?
Jenny: Speaking of C-H-E-E, but a different continent and then also an extra vowel, We've got the Cheese Man and cheese! [Krisitn laughing.] The Cheese Man and cheese! The Cheese Man and cheese.
Kristin: Speaking of C-H-E-E but replace-- okay. [Jenny laughs.] I'm not going to repeat it for all of you.
Jenny: Let me be me.
Kristin: I'm going to.
Jenny: And if none of those options works for you…
Krisitn: Yeah, I feel a little underwhelmed so far. What else do we got, Jenny?
Jenny: We've got Willow… and ancient green queer poetry! [Kristin laughs]
Jenny: …that she's painting on the back of her girlfriend. Incredible.
Krisitn: Wow. I'm sure that we discussed this in the last episode, Jenny, but do you know that the first time that that poem by Sappho was on television was
actually before this episode? It was on Xena and it was a poem-Jenny: Oh my…
Kristin: --that Xena read to… What's her name?
Jenny: Gabrielle.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Oh my-- This is the… Listen, I don't mean to… This some gay ass shit, is what this is. [Krisitn laughs.] Bless us everyone.
Kristin: Yeah, so Twitter…
Jenny: I think, I think we already know who won, but yes, please join us by casting a vote in our democracy. We are at @bufferingcast. Look for this Sexual Tension Award poll.
Kristin: Yeah, you've got a week to vote-Jenny: --and then when the winner is decided, the bracket shall begin-eth!
Kristin: Yes! We activate Emily McClung street as soon as this poll ends… [Jenny imitate machine powering up.] And then shit getting real! I'm not looking forward to being done with the series Jenny, but like the excitement I have for this Sexual Tension Award vote off of season to season for one ultimate winner.
Jenny: It's gonna rock it.
Kristin: Do you think it's going to be Faith and Buffy?
Jenny: Too soon to say.
Kristin: Too soon to say.
Jenny: Too soon to say. But also I'd be remiss if I didn't let everyone know that you were bummed that there are only four polling slots on Twitter because you wanted Anya and steering to be nominated. So if anybody wants to write that in, please go ahead.
Kristin: Please feel free.
Jenny: Cool! So that's your last Sexual Tension Award of Season Four.
Kristin: Wow. [Jenny vocalize beginning of the Sexual Tension Award jingle.] [SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays] Sexual tension award!
Krisitn: Okay, so we had a conversation with Lauren already about some of the problematic things in this episode, specifically with Sineya, and talked about it already. But just to repeat, I think that I would have been a lot more pleased with this episode had there been a little more reverence for Sineya's experience and also the things that she was bringing to the table after we get through the desert, the scene in the desert, we're back in Buffy’s living room and Buffy essentially is like, "I'm going to ignore you, and you're going to go away." And then as we've already discussed, makes us super racist comment about her hair.
Jenny: Oof. Yeah. I do think it's worth mentioning from the commentary that Joss talks about this moment of, Buffy just being like, "I'm just gonna like stop paying attention and like, this is not going to be part of my vibe." He talks about that essentially the climax of the episode is very anticlimactic and that's the point because Buffy is rejecting the narrative of the Slayer as a tragically isolated figure.
Kristin: Right, right. And this is, and you know, I think maybe we touched on it a little bit with Lauren, but that's what's complicated, right? Is that, first of all I don't think it's spoiling anything to say that as the series progresses, we will learn more about Sineya. This is not the full picture of her experience and with the context that we will get, I think that this discussion will expand and change cause there's a lot more there than what we just see here. But the problem is that instead of her rejecting… You know, when she takes a step away from the council, she's rejecting the patriarchy and the control.
Jenny: Mh-hmm.
Kristin: And so I think that the complication here is that instead of continuing with that theme, they positioned a black woman in this position that is being rejected.
Jenny: Right. There's something very white feminism about it. Something very like, "I've discovered my power and the way that I see things is right for everyone."
Kristin: Fuck yes, exactly right. It's like "I can do this, and sorry that you couldn't." Like almost positioning them as though they were seated equally and that Buffy just like figured it out. And had like equal access to figure it out, which of course isn't true on so many levels, not just having to do with, you know, time, race, class, like so many things. But also just by the very nature of the fact that scenario was the literal First Slayer. Yeah, it is. There's a lot of white feminism. I think that's a good call, Jenny.
Jenny: Thank you.
Kristin: You are welcome. So yeah, uh, wish that that had been dealt with better.
Jenny: Yeah. Handled differently.
Kristin: But that's what's fun about us having a podcast about the show is that we get to kind of like reactivate these conversations in current spaces and with the
knowledge that we have. And also we are notably two white women-Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: --discussing this. And when we were discussing it with Lauren, we were three white women discussing it. So we only are coming at it from that perspective--
Jenny: [Sarcastically] How many white women does it take… [Kristin laughs.]
Kristin: Right! But I think what's really cool is that usually when we open up these conversations, it's just the beginning. Like Jenny and I are like, "Hey, we have feelings about this and this is how we find it to be complicated." And obviously I, maybe not obviously, but I did read the excerpts from Joss Whedon and Race on this and some of the information that I'm bringing to the table is coming from that book as well. And you know, many of you I'm sure will email us and expand the conversation even further. And then we do a mailbag episode and we talk about it
more and it's like-Jenny: Oh my god!
Kristin: --really cool!
Jenny: What is this, a community or something?!
Kristin: It’s a community! Ad it’s just powerful and wonderful and I'm increasingly important I think, to both of us and I think to all of you. So, um, yes. There is my
monologue for today. So then everybody wakes up and they sort of unpack-Jenny: They’re having a [laughing] debriefing of their own.
Kristin: Yes, everybody is-Both: Debriefing!
Kristin: They’re around the table in the living room, or in the dining room rather, and Joyce comes out and is of course, like, "What did I miss?" And I love this energy. They're just the family…
Jenny: Like the, "The spirit of the First Slayer, like tried to kill us in our dreams," and Joyce's like, "Oh, should I make some cocoa?" [Both laughing.]
Kristin: Right, right, right! Which is like, you know, I think very true of humans, right?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Like we normally like whatever situation we're put in, for the most part, if
we're in it for long enough-Jenny: We're so adaptable.
Kristin: Yeah, we adapt. And we're like, "Right, my daughter's a Slayer, you know, evil abounds and, you know, hot cocoa is still delicious."
Jenny: Just heat up some milk!
Kristin: Wasn’t it Spike who really wanted those mini marshmallow?
Jenny: Oh my god, Spike loves the mini marshmallows.
Kristin: Joyce really loves making cocoa, huh?
Jenny: It's her-- maybe cocoa is her love language.
Kristin: Oh, it's like gift giving-- What are the love languages?
Jenny: Oh, words of affirmation, touch… uh, some other stuff. [Jenny laughs.]
Kristin: This was when we really need Brittany and Laura to help us.
Jenny: Yeah, truly.
Kristin: And hot chocolate is really where I was headed with that. One more thing.
I think we've talked about: white feminism, and the racism, and other sort of like primitive narratives in this thing, um, in this episode. But I will say that at the end of the episode, Buffy says, "I never really thought about it before." And I thought, well, if that isn't the vessel of…
Jenny: The chorus.
Kristin: Right? It's like that's the chorus of white feminism. It's the chorus of privilege. It's a thing that I think Jenny, you and I both have had to look at, especially in the last couple of years since the election of like, I never really thought about it.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: Why? Because I didn't have to, I didn't have to. Buffy has not had to-- She says something earlier in the episode to-- She's speaking to Sineya and she says, "I walk, I talk, I shop, I sneeze." And the intentionality of the line is like, "I do all of
these things cause I'm not just a Slayer." And it's like you've had the privilege-Jenny: --of being not just a Slayer.
Kristin: --of-- exactly.
Jenny: You didn’t know anything about Sineya.
Kristin: And what's amazing about this episode is I think that it was, again, I don't know, but it seems like it was very unaware of the fact that it was even highlighting that privilege.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: I think that even the writers in the room were writing from a place of privilege where they don't even realize what they were capturing.
Jenny: Sure.
Kristin: But I think that we can see it and when that line was spoken at the end of the episode, I was like, "Well, if that isn't it."
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: That's a pretty big thing. And then of course, almost the tail end of the episode, we get Buffy saying to the group, "Hey, at least you didn't have that guy with the cheese and your dream." [Jenny laughing.]
Kristin: Which is a very-- it reminded me of the end of "Pangs."
Jenny: Oh! [Laughing.]
Krisitn: You know, they're all at the table-Jenny: "Yeah, especially with Angel here. Wow!" [Kristin laughing.]
Kristin: Right. Anyhow, I thought that was fun.
Jenny: And that's not the last thing that happened. That is ass thing that happens is Buffy goes by the open door for old bedroom, looks at the bed… meaningfully, and walks it's away. And can I tell you something that you're going to have to edit out? It's a spoiler.
Kristin: Oh my God. You can, are you trying to drive them crazy? Wow. [Kristin laughs.]
Jenny: You could edit it out and then, and then put it on Patreon. [Both laughing.]
Kristin: Okay.
Jenny: If you want. [Fanfare plays] Redacted!
Kristin: Wow. Jenny, thank you for that spoiler. [Jenny laughs.] I'm very, very exciting. Actually, there's a moth flying around your head right now, which I feel is
still like the-Jenny: --the traditional, the traditional spoiler moth? [Kristin laughs.] It's just like in the magicians and every time I'm about to say a spoiler, a cloud of moths just surrounds my face. [Kristin laughs.]
Kristin: Um, yeah. So we leave Buffy looking at her bed and we hear this voiceover from Tara once again. And I think that means, Jenny, that we're about to go into Season Five.
Jenny: Truly.
Kristin: [Sarcastically.] Wow. I wonder what's going to be there waiting for us.
Jenny: [Yelling softly.] Ahhh! [Speaking normally] I'm excited. I'm so excited.
Krisitn: I will say, you know this already, we were taking a break and we will be back with a live taping from World Cafe, live in Philadelphia.
Jenny: Oh yeah!
Kristin: Friday the 13th of September we're going to be taping the premier, which is "Buffy vs Dracula."
Jenny: Hell yeah!
Kristin: And we'll be airing that episode and returning with Season Five on September 18th, I believe, is that Wednesday that follows. So we'll be gone for a little while, but if you are a patron supporter, if you're a Patreon supporter, there are a lot of things happening over the next few months. We have concerts from
Jenny, we have a comic book club with me, we have Buffy-watches-Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: We have-- Jenny, you're going to do a wrap up song.
Jenny: It's almost as if we're not taking a break.
Kristin: It is almost as if… [Jenny laughs] We will be pretty active over in the
Patreon space. We'll be doing a mailbag episode and some other-Jenny: I think that Season Four wrap-up song is just going to be about Riley's abs. But we'll see.
Krisitn: We'll see how you're so inspired. And I would like to encourage you all to
do if you are not already listening to Angel On Top- Jenny: Oh my gosh.
Krisitn: --you have this time, this break-Jenny: Get caught up! It’s so good.
Krisitn: Get caught up, because I will say, like it has been good from the jump, but Brittany and Laura are…
Jenny: It’s like they get powerful every day. It’s terrifying.
Kristin: It’s phenomenal. I'm like obsessed with them. Like I literally, I recorded a little bit of the finale with them. I did the "Fuck Watch" and I also did a segment on Cordelia's arc for the finale. And I was listening to the podcast before I pulled up to Brittany's house to record and I kind of felt like, "Wow, I can't believe I'm going to talk to them." [Jenny laughs] "And I have been listening to them this whole time and like we’re friends and they're so cool."
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: I just think they're really brilliant! I think they're really brilliant and they
have such a different energy-Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: --than you and I have.
Jenny: I love listening to them talk to each other.
Krisitn: I love listening to them too. I think it's a really great quartet that we have going. So if you miss us, you could listen to Angel On Top . Get caught up in this way when we all come back in September, you can be on board, you can have something every week.
Jenny: Hell yes.
Kristin: Right? All right, well, Jenny, who are you?
Jenny: Man! I am Jenny Owen Youngs who is so bummed becoming to the end of Season Four, but so excited to be on the cusp standing on the, on the yawning edge of the abyss of Season Five! Wow!
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: And when I'm not making this podcast, I am making songs and on some of
those songs are going to be coming out-Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: --during our break. Actually I'm going to be releasing some music over the late spring and summer. So please follow me on Twitter and Instagram and everywhere else at @JennyOwenYoung's and you can stay up to date on my releases. I don't want to stress you out, but one song I'm releasing is called "Vampire Weeknights" so…
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: That just sounds like it might be relevant to your interests, [Kristin laughs] so stay tuned for that. And that's who I am. That is the end of my spiel.
Kristin: I too am very excited to roll into Season Five, Jenny. I think it's going to be like the Dawn of a new era. And just like a Glory-ous journey.
Jenny: Totally Glory-ous. That's definitely the word I would use.
Kristin: Yeah, me tos. So, um, we're all pretty excited about Season Five.
Jenny: When we get to Season Five I’m gonna be like, "Kristin, where have you been?"
Kristin: "I've been right here this whole time!" [Jenny laughs.] Oh wow. Okay.
Jenny: Many of you are like, "What the fuck is going on right now?"
Krisitn: I know. It's rude. It's like when you go to a party and somebody else didn't go and then you're just talking to your other friend about the party in front of the person who didn't go to the party.
Jenny: Oh boy.
Kristin: We're sorry.
Jenny: We’re all going to the party together in September!
Kristin: We are. That is literally the most Valley Girl you have ever been in your whole life. You couldn't see Jenny, but her head just darted back and forth. As I was saying, I do work with LGBTQ communities. You can learn about that work by going to my website, which is KristinNoeline. That's K-R-I-S-T-I-N-N-O-E-L-I-N-E.
A few things that I have coming your way this summer: I'm about to spin off to direct A Camp, which is a sleepaway camp for queer women and trans folks. I also, at the end of June, well be hosting an All-Ages Pride Party. It's the seventh year running. It will be at Housing Works bookstore on June 29th. It's a really special event. It is sponsored once again this year by the Tegan and Sara Foundation. And something really exciting that I don't have all the details for yet but that's going to happen is that Tegan and Sara Foundation this year are sponsoring the New York City All-Ages Pride on June 29th, they're also sponsoring Atlanta pride in October. So we're going to do our first All-Ages Pride Party [Jenny gasps] in Atlanta over that pride weekend.
Jenny: Oh, wow!
Kristin: And as we have details of course I will share them. So if you want to stay up to date on all of that, I'm KristinNoeline.com you can use that same spelling to follow me on Twitter and on Instagram. And I would be remiss not to tell you that I also will have a podcast happening every single week all the way through July, which is about The L Word . I am sorry and you are welcome. [Jenny laughs.] It is already a really great time. It's me and Riese Bernard who is the CEO of autostraddle.com. She's a genius. It's truly one of the most brilliant human beings I have in my life and is also an expert about all things L Word. So we are unpacking that. There's a lot of conversations about sexuality, bush confidence.
Jenny: Wow!
Kristin: Yup. Yeah, it's really, it's a good time.
Jenny: Maybe I'll just randomly start a television podcast over the summer with all my free time. [Kristin laughs.] Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram at @bufferingcast. And you can always email us at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin: A fly fell in my coffee!
Jenny: No! Fell?
Kristin: Well I assume it didn't intentionally go into it.
Jenny: Hey, she's digging it out everybody. [Kristin laughs.]
Kristin: I got it out.
Jenny: And you're just going to keep drinking that coffee.
Kristin: Yeah, whatever.
Jenny: Alright.
Kristin: I mean, even if it pooped in there, it can’t be-Jenny: [Grossed out] Oh, god!
Kristin: It's such a small fly!
Jenny: Okay. Moving on! [Both laughing]
Kristin: Right? So if you'd like to support us, which obviously we need all the
support we can get-Jenny: Clearly, Kristen needs help!
Kristin: You can support us by going to bufferingthevampireslayer.com. You can click on Patreon join our Patreon family. It's a really beautiful space. As mentioned
before, we will be doing a lot of things over the summer and-Jenny: Heck yeah.
Krisitn: --you can find out, actually all of those things by just going to our events page, putting on events on that website and you can see all the things we'll be doing. You can also support us by [Singing] going to our store! We have so much fun new merchant cleaning and an animal pen with witches on it. [Speaking] It's really great.
Jenny: Treat yourself to some swag.
Kristin: And holy shit, we'll be back in your fucking ears pretty soon.
Jenny: Thank you so much for joining us for this season and previous seasons. You rock. We're very thankful for you and we can't wait to come back in September.
Kristin: We really cannot. Jenny, are you ready for a howl that encompasses not only "Restless," but all of our freshman year of college?
Jenny: I'm going to dig deep.
Kristin: Alright.
Jenny: ‘Till next season…
Both: [Howling] Awoo!
[Jenny singing "Restless" from Songs form Buffering the Vampire Slayer: Season Four.] Killed the demon cyborg Shouldn’t I be rewarded with forty winks Pass out on the sofa Anybody know what gives with these dreams Got me so restless Followed by a shadow Anybody here know why she wants to fight Even in my slumber I’m caught up in the kill or die every night Confounded by cheese man but this much i know I’m lucky in my friends, especially as slayers go But if I am unconscious Is it too much to wish that I dream of cowboy guy Got me so restless