Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 0.17: Interview with Seth Green
Jenny: Support for today’s episode comes from Buffy. Buffy makes bedding that’s earth-friendly and cruelty-free. Their latest product, The Breeze, is a comforter made entirely from 100% eucalyptus fiber, to regulate temperature and keep you cool and comfortable all night long. And Buffy offers a free trial, so if you don’t love it, return it at no cost. Whether you sleep in a coffin, or surrounded by doily pillows, or in some other sleep configuration, your sleep experience can be made cozier by Buffy. For $20 off your Buffy comforter, visit Buffy.co and enter code BUFFERING. That’s Buffy.co and enter code BUFFERING for $20 off.
Jenny: Hello and welcome to a very special episode of Buffering the Vampire Slayer . I am Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: And I am Kristin Russo and holy shit! Today we are sitting down to have a conversation with Seth fucking Green.
Jenny: What a time to be alive.
Kristin: Truly a delicious delectable… I'm trying to think of anything having to do with a werewolf time to be alive.
Jenny: Lupin time to be alive.
Kristin: There you go! Before we get into this very special interview, we want to tell you a couple of things. First of all, the reason that we got you sit down with Seth is that today, June 7th, is the day that his directorial debut Changeland , a film that he wrote, starred in, and directed, debuts. Comes out. Today!
Jenny: Yes! It's in theaters, it’s cable on demand, and it's also on iTunes. So there's a lot of ways for you to get at it—
Kristin: Truly.
Jenny: — and put it into your eyeballs.
Kristin: Yes! And before we talk to Seth about the movie, and of course Buffy the Vampire Slayer , we have a couple of announcements, news, things for you. First of all, today's June 7th, but on June 29th, which is a Saturday, I will be in New York City, where I live, at Housing Works Bookstore doing the seventh annual All Ages Pride Party. It is quite literally one of my favorite two events. Can you guys put the other one is Jenny?
Jenny: Is it Prom?
Kristin: It sure is! One of my favorite two events of the entire year. And uh, we have music from Kississippi, music from Adult Mom. We have Urban Word New York City doing slam poetry. I will be hosting, it's from two to four. You can find all the details anywhere you follow me. So look that up and be there if you're near New York.
Jenny: Yeah, that’s gonna rock.
Kristin: It’s gonna rock.
Jenny: I'll tell you what else is going on.
Kristin: What's going on, Jenny?
Jenny: Well, today's not just the day that set's movie comes out, but it's also the day that these "Songs from Season Four" album is available on Spotify, on iTunes, wherever you get digital music, Bandcamp, it's everywhere. You can even—
Kristin: I thought you were gonna say "Band Candy." I was like, "What about ‘Band Candy’?"
Jenny: No, no, no! You can even order a CD if that's what your preferred listening format is. What a delightful collection [Kristin giggles] of songs we made for you! Please listen to them and thank you.
Kristin: [Singing "Restless" by Jenny Owen Youngs] Got me so restless!
Jenny: That's the one.
Kristin: It’s good. It's a jam! It's always in my head. So also there's a bonus "Hush." You get both versions of "Hush"—
Jenny: Yep. Yep.
Kristin: —on the digital download or the CD. You can go to bufferingthevampireslayer.com and click on shop to find the CD, which is up for preorder now. You can also find out that we have, well we have so much good shit. I mean really truly I'm obsessed with our merch store. I have one of everything.
Jenny: As do I. I've been drinking a lot of water out of our beer stein.
Kristin: [Laughing] Oh, very nice!
Jenny: Keeping hydrated in these dry, warm months.
Kristin: I have my beer stein in the freezer for like a hot summer day.
Jenny: Oh, sure, yep.
Kristin: You know, when I want a cool, frosty beer, where I also smash the patriarchy.
Jenny: Not a bad move.
Kristin: We have new crop tops that are blue, the "Girl Gang" crop top. Now in blue, it's a different cut. It's pretty exciting. I'm excited to get mine. And hats and pins and shirts, oh my!
Jenny: Oh yeah.
Kristin: We also have a sale going on this weekend from today until— through Sunday. You can get 15% off on everything, including the brand new CD. So that's cool. You just need to use a special code that I made for you. It's on theme today. Do you know what it is, Jenny?
Jenny: Is it "gathering"?
Kristin: Incorrect.
Jenny: Is it "shindig"?
Kristin: It's so— [Excited] you're getting warmer!
Jenny: Is it "hootenanny"!?
Kristin: It is "hootenanny"!
Jenny: Is it H-double-O-T-E-N-A-double-N-Y?!
Kristin: How did you—? Yes. I think? I couldn't follow it.
Jenny: Trust me.
Kristin: I trust you. Use that code. You get 15% off this weekend on anything in our store. How exciting for you. 
Jenny: You know what else is exciting for you?
Kristin: I do, I really do.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah. The next thing you'll see from us in your feed on the blessed day of Charisma Carpenter's birth, July 23rd, will be our interview with her. Oh my God.
Kristin: "Oh my God" is right.
Jenny: What a—? I just— Is this the best of all possible worlds?
Kristin: It really is. I mean, I don't know what's happening, Jenny, but I'm here for all of it.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: Out conversation with Charisma— You know what's really cool is like, so now we've had conversations with several people, but probably the biggest interviews we've had have been James, Charisma, and Seth.
Jenny: Mh-hmm.
Kristin: They've all happened in succession and they have all been so different.
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: Like our conversations have been so markedly different with all of them. Some of them focus on Buffy more. Some of them focus on life more. With Charisma we really got into like some po-li-tics. [Politics] Which isn't a surprise, if you follow her on social media. It's going to be a blast. You should get excited. But before you spend all of your excitement over there, you should probably direct some of it over here. One last thing before we get into our conversation with Seth is
that if you are a patron supporter, a couple of things for you to know: If you're a $25 supporter, well shit. Thank you. And the next exclusive batch of merchandise goes out in July. There's a poll up now, it goes down on June 10th. So if you want to vote on what kind of shirt and pin you want to go out in July, get on over there and put your votes in. Jenny has voted more times than are legal for "I Love Hunks." So you've got to really vote to make sure we balance it out.
Jenny: Or just vote for "I Love Hunks."
Kristin: Or just vote for "I Love Hunks." Also check out our calendar on our website, aformentioned bufferingthevampireslayer.com. You can find out all of the fun things we have going on this summer for our patron supporters. A comic book club with me, concerts with Jenny—
Jenny: Yes, yes!
Kristin: We're doing— Yeah, go on and tell them.
Jenny: We’re going to do a watch of the original pilot of Buffy .
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: So, fun!
Kristin: Which I've never seen. Have you seen it?
Jenny: Me neither.
Kristin: Hoo, what a day it’s gonna be!
Jenny: What about that!
Kristin: So yeah, you're probably excited about all of that, but probably you're more excited for us to shut up so you can hear us talk to Seth Green.
Jenny: Hell yes.
NOTES: [ Buffering the Vampire Slayer theme song plays.]
Kristin: Oh, hello. We are here in Burbank, California with a very special person whose name rhymes with Beth Steen.
Jenny: That was…
Kristin: Was that a good intro?
Seth: I think I went to summer camp with someone named Beth Steen.
NOTES: [All laugh.]
Kristin: We’re here with Seth Green!
Jenny: Holy shit.
Kristin: Seth, thank you so much for taking the time out to sit and talk with us.
Seth: No problem. Do you guys always come up with a rhyme scheme for your guests?
Jenny: No, that was…
Kristin: You were very special.
Seth: Aw, thanks.
Kristin: So yeah, I hope you feel…
NOTES: [Kristin laughs.]
Seth: I definitely feel it.
Kristin: We're very excited to be sitting down with you to be talking to you. You are, as I'm sure you're aware, a pretty integral part of Buffy the Vampire Slayer. And our listeners are beside themselves that you've sat down to talk with us.
Seth: Oh, sweet.
Kristin: So we thought we would start at the very beginning as you know, Mona's wants to do and you've been acting since the early to mid eighties, at least by our research. And we wanted to know how you get into acting to begin with?
Seth: It was just a fortunate series of events. I really wanted to be acting. And when I was six years old, I tracked down an on camera training school in Philadelphia and sort of learned how to work in front of a camera or do commercials and things like that. And then the people that ran that school, the… one of the main teachers there, he was married to a talent manager that represented hundreds of kids out of New York and New Jersey and Pennsylvania. And so I got to audition for her and then she sent me out on auditions and I was just really lucky. Got the first couple of things that I went out on. And you know, kept it up as hard as I could.
Kristin: I love the part where you're a six year old—
Seth: Yeah.
Kristin: —researching [Jenny laughs] the way to get yourself on television.
Jenny: "How do I break into this industry?"
Kristin: Yeah, "How do I get in here?"
Seth: I mean, I recognize that that's unusual after the fact, [Kristin and Jenny laugh] but at the time it felt, it felt really… I knew for certain, which I recognize is a very fortunate thing to have as a young kid. I knew for certain that being a performer is what I want to do.
Kristin: And so you're from the East coast? You're from Philly area, is that what you said?
Seth: Yeah, I grew up in Philadelphia. Quite literally where Will Smith grew up. West Philadelphia. Born and raised.
NOTES: [Jenny laughs.]
Kristin: You are born and raised. [Kristin laughs.] So when did you make the move out here to LA?
Seth: I got to come out to LA a bunch of times, both for auditions and work. Uh, but then I moved out for good right after I turned 16.
Jenny: Wow. And like, how did you know when you were a kid? Like what kind of performative activities I guess were you drawn to? Like what was your kind of like immediate path to…?
Seth: Well, before I even knew that it was a thing, I loved mimicking voices or doing… imitating cartoons or singing and dancing, and, you know, put on shows and dress up in costumes for my family. And I was just always really attracted to it. And then, I think it was Sesame Street or something like that, showed a "How Commercials Are Made." And they made the point of the, the woman cleaning her kitchen for the Spic and Span commercial does not enjoy cleaning her kitchen. [Kristin and Jenny laugh.] She's part of an advertisement, a mechanic that helps sell products to people. And an actor is someone that does that. And I was like, "Ah, yeah, that's a job. That's a, that's a job for me." And then my mom was an art teacher at a summer camp and the kids put on a talent show and I got to be a part of the interstitials between the performers.
Kristin: Mh-hmm.
Seth: You know, they had crafted this whole Star Trek parody and they let me play the captain and we were traveling through the galaxy recruiting talent. And so we'd find somebody put on a sketch or perform [Kristin and Jenny laughing] and I would say, "Well, those guys are great. Let's get them a board." And you know, that kind of thing.
Kristin: So advanced for a summer camp performance.
Seth: It really was. And then she worked at another summer camp and the kids put on You're A Good Man, Charlie Brown. And I begged them to let me be a part of it. And looking back, you know, they seem like adults, but they're probably 15 and 16 years old.
Kristin: [Laughing] Right.
Seth: And so they wouldn't let me be a part of the first play that they put on, but then they— I begged them so much and was so annoying that when they, [Jenny laughs] the second term put on "Hello Dolly!" they gave me a single line at the end of the play.
NOTES: [Kristin laughs.]
Jenny: [Whispering] Yes.
Seth: And that was it. I honestly, I don't know how else to explain it, but like all the rehearsal, all of the prep, all of the costumes and the song and the choreography, like learning all that and then, you know, the night of the play and hitting the stage and saying my line and doing the review and then all of us taking the bow, it was like, "God, this is what I do." I've done, I don't know how else to explain it except that I was, I felt wholly certain that everything was correct in that moment.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
NOTES: [Seth chuckles.]
Kristin: So you moved out when you were 16.
Seth: Yeah.
Kristin: And it was several years later that you came to Buffy. 
Seth: Yeah!
Kristin: And how did that happen? Like, you know, did you know the show where you called specifically for the role? What was that entry point like?
Seth: I mean, I just auditioned through the same channels that everybody else did. But I knew Sarah cause we had met in New York and done commercials together when we were kids. And I knew Alison, cause we had done a movie called My Stepmother's An Alien years before. And I had heard of Joss Whedon. I got to be in the original Buffy movie. I played a vampire that turns uh… what's that kid's name? Sasha, the of the bad guys, one of the jock guys. I'm the, I'm the vampire that turns him, but it's off camera. And they wound up cutting the moment and like intercutting this thing with Paul Reuben, so it looks like Paul made him.
Jenny: Gah!
Seth: But I got to spend that night with Paul and I got to meet Donald Sutherland. And I can't remember if that's when I met Luke Perry. But then I wound up getting to do 90210 a couple of years later, [all laugh] so I got to hang out with him there. But auditioning for the movie was just that I just— or for the show, rather— it was just that. I just came in and auditioned. I think I read for casting, I don't even think Joss was in there until like my second session.
Kristin: And so you knew, obviously, of the Buffy sort of character, but hadn't seen the first season or anything like that.
Seth: Yeah. And that's also, you know, I've seen, [Seth laughs] I've seen so many things come and go. I've seen so many pilots and so many shows and you sort of get an attitude of like, "All right, good luck guys." [All laugh.] You know what I'm saying? And a network like the WB, which was still sort of becoming organized, it's still an external UHF cable channel with a very limited release.
Kristin: Right.
Seth: It all just felt like work. As an actor, you just expect that you're going to hopefully get to do a bunch of different kinds of projects without any real expectation. And so the fun of it is getting to collaborate with people you know, or getting to play something new or different.
Kristin: When you read for the role and then found out that you'd got the role, what was known to you about Oz at that point? You know, was he a couple of episodes? Or…
Seth: Yeah, yeah. They— there was no real plan. Like I didn't know that he was going to be a werewolf until I was already cast and we'd done like several episodes of it. It was just this idea that a, you know, a kind of quirky, subversive, guitarist for a band who liked Willow, you know? So she's not your prototypical, she, she's not like the glamorous, romantic star of the show. And so this was like a fun opportunity to play a character that was, you know, it got to… I dunno, just show a cool relationship. And all the dialogue was so excellent. Like the way that it was written was awesome. And plus Aly and I got on so well.
Jenny: Since you mentioned, obviously a big part of Oz's character at the start, and throughout I guess, is that he's in a band who plays guitar. [Seth laughs.] Did you come into the role with like guitar experience or was that something that you…
Seth: [Laughing] Uh… yeah. I had wanted to learn how to play guitar.
Jenny: [Laughing] Okay, okay, okay.
Seth: My buddy Breckin Meyer bought me a guitar for my birthday one year and bought me lessons. And [Seth laughs] I took a month of lessons and I quickly realized that like, what they teach you in the lessons is the most rudimentary and basic of stuff so that you actually understand how to play the instrument. And I also saw other friends of mine who had been diligent and learning how to play the guitar and I recognized that they had far more dedication to it than I.
Jenny: Ah!
Seth: And so I just sorta stopped. I didn't take lessons beyond that. And I learned all the cheating chords—
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Seth: —as opposed to learning the actual chords. But when I got this part, I sat with the actual musicians that had written our songs at work. It takes to get my finger placement correct. But what's funny is when the show got edited, they took everything out of sequence.
NOTES: [Jenny and Kristin laugh.]
Seth: So they just like grabbed a shot where the camera move worked the best or where our expression was, whatever. And none of the work that I had put in to actually match with that chord progression was represented on camera. And so the note that I kept getting from actual musicians was, "It's real obvious you're not playing that guitar, bro."
NOTES: [Jenny and Kristin laugh.]
Seth: I was like, "Well fuck, I tried so hard. I don't know."
Kristin: I don’t know, Jenny's a musician and when we were talking about it, you
said, "I don't know, the way that he was holding the chords… " :ike you probably thinking more about the hand positioning.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah. It all looks like, you know, like it doesn't look like it's your first time touching a guitar, which is not always the case on television.
Seth: Confidence. Confidence is the key to a real performance like… [All laughing.] What's convincing is how your face looks. Your hands aren't like just not moving. Which I've had that experience too.
Kristin: Right. So Oz comes to the show. We know a few things: You know he's a musician and he's interested in Willow. And right from the jump and throughout Oz's time on the series, he is a character that so many people are enamored with. Namely he's one of the most responsible men on the show—
NOTES: [Seth laughs.]
Kristin: —if not the most responsible manager. Right? He's super respectful of Willow. He's respectful of women in general. He doesn't slut shame. He like is totally cool with giving her autonomy. And a lot of people have written in to us during our time on the podcast to say like, you know, "The character of Oz really gave me a very high expectations for my future boyfriends." And so I wonder what that was like for you. Is there a conversation around that on set? Was that part of your awareness of the role?
Seth: I mean I'm really, I'll just keep throwing it back to the writers cause you know, Marty Noxon and Jane Espenson and Drew Goddard and Joss, like everyone that was their character and I just wanted to make it feel genuine. And so I was, I was grateful cause they gave me all of these points of view. They gave this character this morality and confidence and Zen quality and so my best effort was just to embody that. I became aware that he was such a like a decent and a good character. It made, it made me more aspirational, you know?
Krisin: That actually was a question from one of our listeners. Is sort of, and we're skipping ahead now, we'll go back for the particulars, but were there things about the character of Oz that influenced you as a person and vice versa? You know, are there things about you that influenced the character?
Seth: I dunno. I mean I tried to bring like comedic timing to it because there's a great opportunity in the calm lack of reaction to the character to make things very funny. But you know, you talk about what a character, what about a character stays with you. And I definitely have tried to maintain that same sense of proportionate response or even like a Zen observation of a moment instead of a reaction, which I don't always achieve, but I definitely strive for it.
Kristin: If you always achieved it, you'd be on a higher plane.
Seth: Yeah. Well I felt like that character existed on a higher plane, [all laugh] both in like self-awareness and self-governing.
Kristin: Yeah. So the dialogue that Oz has is pretty incredible. It's pretty sparse in terms of like how many words are said, [Seth laughs] but the words are really powerful. And it sounds like just from the beginnings of this conversation that that was always the case. That was always the way that Oz was written.
Seth: Yeah. I didn't like ad libber improv, anything about that. I just genuinely took what they gave me and tried to make it feel real coming out of my mouth.
Kristin: It felt very real. One of our listeners actually wrote in, Olivia said that they heard you speak on a podcast about your relationship to beat poets [laughing] when you were at this age. And so sort of relatedly like, you know, do you still read poetry? And was that a thing that you were sort of like into at the time?
Seth: Probably more at the time. I did a lot of study of both theology and philosophy and religion, and loved poetry and literature. And probably between, you know, being 18 and being 25, I did the bulk of my study in those areas so that that would've coincided with when I was making the show.
Kristin: And that’s incredibly Oz. [All laugh.] You know? Theology, philosophy.
Seth: Yeah, you've got to be well rounded.
Kristin: Right, right.
Seth: Well, I'd always read that about Stanley is one of my favorite creators, that he didn't focus just on comics or on pop art, that his fields of study were so expansive that it gave him a really diverse background in that way. He had a lot of versatility with writing and creating characters so that things didn't all feel exactly the same. And I thought, "Oh, that's a… that's an excellent direction to follow."
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Oh yeah. I think I'd like to ask what I think is on everybody's mind, which is in the 1990s, on television, a CGI…
NOTES: [All chuckling.]
Kristin: There we are.
Jenny: ...the beautiful combination of CGI and practical effects. Can we talk a little bit about your transformation sequences? And also whether or not you were inside the full suit at any point or if that's all stunt stuff?
Seth: Yeah, the very beginning, I got into the makeup, like the first episode that we did, I got into the makeup, and then I had an awesome stunt guy named Lee Whitaker who I got to work really closely with and we talked about like physical movement. And actually the very first episode that they did there was like a giant guy. Now that I remember it the very first time there was like a giant guy in this costume. So I did the transformation stuff. I did several stages of it and it that… that first, where I transformed back, we shot that in reverse, essentially. So I came in and got covered in hand-laid hair, and then as they—
Jenny: Whoa, Whoa, Whoa, Whoa.
Kristin: Yeah, can you tell us what that means?
Jenny: Hand-laid hair?
Seth: Yeah, there was like a team of five people gluing patches of real hair to my body.
NOTES: [Jenny groans.]
Kristin: To your skin?
Seth: Yeah, directly to my skin, yeah.
Jenny: Hu— human hair? Or like synthetic hair?
Seth: I mean it was like animal… I mean it was probably some kind of real something.
Jenny: Hoo, okay.
Seth: It's a long time, I don't remember exactly.
Jenny: Great, great, great, great. Glued all over your body.
Seth: Yeah. And that, that first process to both do the mechanics of that. Um, cause they, they basically built it right. So each time they would add a little bit more and then I'd get into that position and they'd film me in that spot and then I go back to the truck and they'd add a bunch more until eventually that we've got like the full face pieces and stuff like that. It took about nine hours.
Kristin: God, it’s like a stop motion thing.
Seth: Kind of. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Similar to that. But we did three episodes by the old process before they even custom designed prosthetics for me specifically or custom made contacts for me specifically. Cause it wasn't, there wasn't a guarantee we're going to keep doing it. But once they were like, "Ah, this is something we're going to keep doing." That was when they got the stunt guy to be in the suit, Lee, and developed all these specialty pieces for me to wear. Which cut down the time of the process from, you know, seven hours to two.
Kristin: A little bit less hand gluing.
NOTES: [Kristin laughs.]
Seth: Yeah. And then later on I was able to get somebody else to double me in the [laughing] makeup—
Jenny: [Kristin and Jenny laughing] Yes, yes, yes.
Seth: —so I didn’t have to do like the midway stuff.
Kristin: Do you remember finding out when the werewolf arc— Like do you remember the moment?
Seth: Yeah. Joss was like, "Hey man, I had this idea where I think Oz is a werewolf." And I was like, "Oh that’s cool."
NOTES: [Kristin and Jenny laugh.]
Seth: "Sweet. What are you, what do you want to do?" And he's like, "I don't know, I think you have a bit by your cousin or something. I don’t know the specifics."
NOTES: [Kristin and Jenny laughing.]
Kristin: A lot of questions about that cousin actually we posted about this interview and people were like, "Can you ask Seth if he knows how his cousin got turned?" I'm like, "Guys, it's not, it's not— That's not him." [Laughs.]
Seth: But that response is at the very core of the character, I feel. Like he calls his aunt or his grandma or whoever it is and he's like, "Hey, is Jordy werewolf? Yeah? Okay. Just checking." [Kristin and Jenny laughing.] I was like, "God, this is the, this is the absolute fundamental of this character." What Josh told me early on was that Oz would have the same reaction to a romantic overture as he would to a well airated can of spray cheese.
Jenny: Sure.
Seth: [As Oz, in a calm voice.] "Oh man. That cheese came out great. Look at this, look at this grouping. It's flawless. [Kristin and Jenny laughing.] Directly in the center? You know? Ah, you wanna get married? Let’s do it." [All laugh.] [Speaking in normal voice.] I was like, "Yeah. That was very helpful."
Kristin: That really puts a line through it all.
Seth: Yeah.
Kristin: Is that— And that was one of our questions too, right? Just in a general sense, what was your work like with the character? Maybe in the beginning it was different from towards the end. What was the journey like in terms of preparing for the character and preparing for the scenes and all of that?
Seth: I mean, I just, I tried to know my lines, forward and backwards. That was really my MO. And then if I ever had questions, everyone was incredibly informative and forthcoming with it. But more than anything, this— the character is meant to— I just practice, not moving, you know? To be the most still possible to, you know, not react to anything but to still be absorbing information and feel alive.
Kristin: Yeah. Do you have favorite moments from the set or favorite stories? Anything that you specifically like comes to your mind when you think about your time on the step?
Seth: I dunno. It's probably all the stuff that isn't the real stuff. Like I just loved that gang of kids and we were all very, very close during the making of it. And plus, Sarah and I had such a long history and Aly and I had such a long history that there was an incredible comfort and ease between us and also a real confidence in getting to work together.
Kristin: Mh-hmm.
Seth: You know, we'd have, we'd have really silly days where we're filming out in, I think it was Torrance and, you know, doing a picnic scene or whatever. And I just remember everybody getting excited because our prop guys had supplied us with a bunch of excellent picnic stuff.
NOTES: [Jenny laughs.]
Seth: So we're sitting there filming a picnic scene and the girls are going nuts over the cheese and how he's requesting like extra pieces of jicama or whatever. [Kristin and Jenny laugh.] We’re sitting there having a picnic in the middle of a functioning school with like hundreds of kids all around us. I just thought, "How fun is this? [All laugh] What a ridiculous job we have sometimes."
NOTES: [Kristin laughs.]
Kristin: Yeah. We actually, little by little as we do more interviews with the cast, we’re piecing together little things. And I remember, we were talking to Sophia Crawford, who did the stunts for Buffy, and she was telling us stories. A lot of the stories that she remembered where you, and David, and I think James maybe were the trio that she just said, you were always like joking around and goofing. You know, making people laugh.
Seth: That makes a lot of sense. Yeah, David and I realized really early that we weren't enemies and instead [all laugh] got very silly and did a lot of pranks about each other all the time. Probably the wrong podcast for this, but David, for weeks I was coming into my trailer and finding like someone had used my bathroom… aggressively.  [Kristin and Jenny laugh.]
Kristin: Oh, Jesus!
Seth: And not bothered to flush or dispose of it and…
Jenny: [whispering, in awe] Aggressively.
Seth: You know, we had— Our call times were like three in the morning, sometimes four in the morning.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Seth: You come in and it's that you're just like, "Oh man, who… who would do this?" And it went on, it went on for like a week [Kristin laughing] and then I arrived at— One time, David's coming out of my trailer and he just has this smile on his face, I’m like, "What the fuck, man?".
Jenny: Dude.
Seth: And he goes, [imitating David] "Ah, you got me!" [Speaking normally] I was like, "You're the— you're the secret pooper? You son of a bitch. How dare you." [Kristin and Jenny laughing.] [Imitating David] "Ah, alright, I'll stop."
Jenny: So you’re got like a 3:00 AM call time, but he’s making a point to get there—
Kristin: [Laughing] —at 2:00 AM—
Jenny: —at like 2:30, just to like make sure it gets done.
Seth: [Speaking normally.] Yeah. Dedication. Well, typically his calls earlier than mine. He usually had to make up call the beat mine or he had to shoot in the dark or something.
Jenny: Oh, right.
Kristin: You gotta give him credit for her dedication to a prank.
Seth: Oh. Baller. [Kristin laughs.] I wasn't really angry about it. I was just like, "Ah, check, check, check mate." [Kristin laughs.]
Kristin: Oh, all right. I'm going to take us from poop back to werewolves at sentence. I really didn't foresee saying during this interview.
Seth: No one see that coming. [Kristin and Jenny laugh.]
Kristin: But I would love to hear from you too about, I mean the show in general, right? It uses demons and werewolf's, etc, supernatural to kind of draw out bigger metaphors. And so for OZ, the whole werewolf arc was a bigger metaphor for what was going on for him. And so, you know, we both, and I know our listeners would love to hear like some of your relationship to that and sort of how you interpreted the werewolf as, you know, a piece of Oz.
Seth: I mean, I guess I just always figured that every person is sort of striving for a better understanding of themselves and how to control themselves or how to participate in any of it. And, and the werewolf was just like a kind of responsibility. Like this character has to accept that this is something that's happening to them. And so it's a little out of their control, but they can at least govern the conditions of it. You know, so he didn't want to hurt anybody. He went out of his way to protect other people and keep it a secret where possible, but more than anything like maintain a sense of control so that he wasn't accidentally hurting anybody else.
Kristin: The arc, right, goes from that place to a place that I don't know. You know, I didn't watch the show as it was airing. But Jenny did, and so I didn't get to have the experience live in real time of this happening, but when I viewed it, and I know when people viewed it live, it was really jarring to have Oz's character hit the Veruca arc.
Seth: Oh, sure.
Kristin: Right? Cause it's like, because he was such this like stand up— Doing all the right things.
Jenny: And also because like the, the prime victim in that scenario is Willow, who is like the button that they like go back to all the time when they like really want
you to feel terrible: Hurt Willow or put Willow in danger.
Seth: Yeah.
Jenny: So like detonating that arc like I think was very, very effective.
Seth: Yeah. Well that's the, that's the thing all the writers were so good at was taking moments about being a teenager and representing them with all of these fantastic, mythological metaphors. In the same way that, you know, Buffy finally… when she has sex with David and that changes his curse and he just becomes a bad guy. And I remember talking to Marty and Jane about that and they were like, well, "You know, the second you give it up to a guy who just becomes a dick." [All laugh.]
Seth: I was like, "Oh, wow. Right." Like the guy changes when he gets what he wants in a lot of cases and how teenage that whole axiom is. And the same thing with OZ. It's like you're— you're only as safe as your, as your covenant. There are no guarantees in relationships. And so, you know, the same way that people get tempted by passion or the— they feel out of control with some kind of desire and that breaks the bond of a relationship, whether that's your intent or not, it's just something you have to deal with. So I thought that was super cool. I think originally they had wanted to stretch that arc out a little bit longer, but I got an opportunity to make two movies and went to do those. And so we had to sort of adjust the schedule differently to be able to do it.
Kristin: That was a pretty massive time for you, right? Like you're leaving Buffy and then you were in so many films over the course of many years, including currently right now. So what was it like to, to leave that set and journey off into the…
Seth: I mean, I was real sad about it. You know, I love the character and I loved everybody I was working with and it just didn't seem like it was possible to do both things. And I did everything I could to make that very clear to everybody involved that I was not unavailable, and that I didn't think that this was like a permanent departure. But the character had been conceived as a guest star. And all of my attachment to the show was, I never expected to be a regular on it. So it was awesome to get to do an entire season of the show as a regular. But I also felt in a lot of ways, like the character still was very much a supporting player. And so it seemed like there was an opportunity to be able to do both things.
Kristin: Yeah.
Seth: And plus it's like the coolest stuff I ever got to do. I was like punching people, throwing demons over my back.
Jenny: Yes!
Seth: Double fisting pistol grip crossbows. Like shooting flaming arrows and monsters. [Kristin and Jenny laughing.] It couldn't be more, couldn't be awesome. And stuff, a bunch of stuff I just didn't get to do like kiss a pretty girl, play guitar on stage. It was awesome.
Jenny: It was kind of everything.
Kristin: Those two are directly related, actually. Playing guitar, you know, it really helps you kiss pretty girls.
Seth: It does. [Kristin and Seth laugh.]
Kristin: Today's episode is brought to you by Aurate. Aurate is a jewelry brand that is founded by women and is made ethically here in New York City. Pieces range from classic to statement to completely original. If you're a jewelry lover, trust me, this is the stuff you always want to find, but never can. Aurate makes real gold accessible by selling directly to you without the middleman markup. They offer the same quality as the fancy, expensive brands at a fraction of the cost. All of Aurate’s pieces come with a lifetime warranty, because they know that their jewelry lasts. I have a couple of really beautiful pieces from Aurate. I have a gold cuff that goes up the top of your ear that you can wear without a piercing. I love it so much. And I also have a really beautiful necklace that’s a gold bar. It’s really simple and beautiful. And both pieces, the cuff especially, is just something I think I’ll have for the rest of my life. It's really, really high quality and I love the way that it looks. For 15% off of your first Aurate purchase, go to Auratenewyork.com/buffy and use promo code BUFFY. That's A-U-R-A-T-E-NewYork dot com slash Buffy, use code BUFFY for 15% off your first purchase.
Jenny: Support for today’s episode comes from Care/of. Make 2020 the year to prioritize you and commit to staying on top of your health. Instead of that laundry list of resolutions you don’t end up sticking with, Care/of can make taking your vitamins and supporting you health goals attainable. Care/of’s short online quiz makes it easy. Just answer some simple questions about your diet, health, goals, and lifestyle, and Care/of will recommend a list of vitamins and supplements specifically for your health needs and goals, whether it’s improving your fitness routine or improving stress. And you can follow Care/of’s expert recommendations, or adjust your pack at any time. What you receive is totally up to you. I’ve been using Care/of for a while now, I think they're great. I loved taking the online quiz, it was super simple and straightforward, and they gave me a variety of things to choose form that they thought might be useful to me. I picked what I wanted, including some vitamins and also some plant-based protein powder. I’ve been using those products ever since, and they’re great. The protein powder in particular is delicious in my opinion. For 50% off your first Care/of order, go to takecareof.com and enter code BUFFERING50. That’s takecareof.com and code BUFFERING50 for 50% off your first Care/of order.
Jenny: Today’s episode is brought to you by Native. Many conventional deodorants contain aluminum, which forms a plug in your sweat glands to prevent you from sweating. Bleh! But Native’s deodorant is made without aluminum, parabens, or talc, so you can feel better about what you’re putting on your body. Native deodorant is made with ingredients you’ve heard of like coconut oil and shea butter. It’s also vegan and never tested on animals. And it really works. Native will keep you smelling and feeling fresh all day long. They’ve got incredible scents. Like they’ve got their classic coconut and vanilla. They’ve got rotating seasonals. They’ve got my personal favorite, wild mint and spruce. They’ve got such a variety and so many good scents, there’s really something for everyone. There’s no risk to try because Native offers free shipping on every order and 30day free returns and exchanges in the US. I’ve tried a ton of different natural deodorants over the years because I really care about what I’m putting on my body, and Native is the only one that’s worked for me. It’s effective whether I'm just hanging out or going to the gym. And I just love that wild mint and spruce scent. For 20% off your first purchase, visit nativedeodorant.com and use promo code BUFFY during checkout. That’s nativedeodorant.com and promocode BUFFY for 20% off your first purchase.
Kristin: So you, you left but then you came back.
Seth: Yeah.
Kristin: And you know there's a bunch that happens in there because when you come back, I'm saying you, when Oz comes back. Oz has sort of found his center, his peace. And there's this episode "New Moon Rising," which we just talked about. That's the most recent for us, cause we're just through season four. And that's a pretty massive episode four for you, for Willow and Tara, for so many things. So I don't know what the best in-point is, but maybe just starting with the episode itself. Like do you remember the filming of that episode? The emotions?
Seth: I do. Yeah. The coolest thing about that is that all these kids all knew each other. So like Amber and I had… We got to audition together for a Soderbergh movie that she wound up getting that Jesse Bradford did called the King of the Hill . So I'd met her all the way back then. And then she was also in Can’t Hardly Wait as well—
Kristin: Right.
Seth: —was Paige, who played Veruca, she's in Can’t Hardly Wait, too. So we all sort of knew each other and had this built in comfort or at least familiarity. And I can't emphasize how much it just felt different on the inside. Like you watch the show and you're like, "Oh, it's all these things." But for all these actors who've spent their entire life performing, you're still hoping you get a pickup and you just want to do the thing well, but nobody has any expectation of it. We certainly didn't feel like, "Oh this is working." And there's a huge audience cause cause on that cable platform there you, you didn't get a sense that it was popular, you know? We knew from the early moments of the internet and the posting board community that there was at least a passionate community around it, but that still only represents a small portion of the desired viewership of any successful show. So that may be kind of a tangent. But getting the come and film that episode, it was just fun. I thought it was so fun that they’d taken her in this other direction that they were exploring these kinds of relationships. And also the dynamic of what happens when your old boyfriend [all laughing] comes back and you're like perfectly happy with somebody and it's working well. So that was cool to get to explore. I remember the only moment that I had a little bit of trouble getting to was they wanted me to like smell her. They wanted me as an animal to pick up on something, subtextural and recognize it. And I remember feeling in the moment like, "Oh, I need a little bit more connective tissue to get from A to B." And then when we started actually doing it, I was like, "Does this… He… Does anybody fucking buy this? Is this going to work? Do you get that I'm doing this?" And then we watched it and I was like, "Oh, they just, they made that awesome, right?"
Kristin: Right. Where the editing combines at the acting, I guess.
Seth: Yeah. But it's also, there's an element of storytelling that as an actor you feel, "Oh, I've got to do more to explain or the audience isn't going to connect." And then you realize how sophisticated the audience is, especially with those kinds of dynamics and relationships that they'll fill in the gaps for you if you're really present in the moment and the audience can sorta… they’re a lot quicker than you think.
Kristin: I think there's something really amazing, and it is 2019 now, but I liked that when you spoke about the relationship that, you know, all you said was like, "I left. You know, Oz left found… got his shit together, came back and Willow was in another thing, was happy with somebody else."
Seth: Right.
Kristin: Right, that it wasn't necessarily on the nose like, and Willow had met a woman and was in this like queer relationship and what have you. And that's how the episode treated it too.
Seth: Yeah.
Kristin: And that was really powerful. Jenny and I are both queer women and there's a lot of conversations that we have around sexuality in the show. And so the Willow-Tara arc is so important and so powerful and the way that it was handled was so responsibly wonderful.
Seth: Yeah. Some of that's just timing. You know, I always appreciate when, you know, your media or your movies or your TV show is that they just sorta treat the relationships the way that they are. I love— You know, I grew up on a lot of "Very Special Episodes" of this or that [Kristin and Jenny laughing] where they got big push and everyone like recognizes that [dramatic voice] "Now is the time we're going to be talking about the issue."
Kristin: Right.
Seth: [Speaking normally.] And I feel like that's less informative to the audience than something that is just representatives completely organic and natural or you know, not some kind of complicated thing to wrap your mind around.
Kristin: Totally. I'm going a little off script for a second…
Seth: There’s a script?
Kristin: Shh! Don't look behind the curtain. But hearing you talk about your relationship to Amber and Alyson and talking about "New Moon Rising" specifically, immediately the image that came to my mind was from the 20th anniversary reunion. [Crosstalk.]
Seth: Oh yeah! We got to do those CW pictures. [Jenny laughs.]
Kristin: The photo shoots— Yes, the photo of the three of you together really exploded our collective internet, at the very least.
Seth: It was completely organic. So they sat Aly in the middle of us [Kristin and Jenny laughing.] and I was like, I was like, "Oh, we should be holding hands." And Amber’s like, "Oh, me too." And so that was what— We were like, "Oh, this is perfect." Let's all just be holding hands here. [All laughing.]
Kristin: [Laughing] It’s just amazing, you know. It was the end we all wanted to see. Sorry, sorry to go off.
Seth: No, that was really, I mean that was fun for everybody, cause everybody loves the show. And especially in retrospect, you realize what a… What an incredible privilege it was to get to be a part of something so significant. We all knew it was, it was meaningful. I mean, for me it was like some of the best writing I'd ever gotten to say.
Jenny: Mh-hmm.
Seth: And one of the coolest things I've gotten to be a part of, you know, um, but the way that it has continued to evolve after that, I love that. And I've always said that Buffy fans are almost immediately identifiable because of the depth of their passion and compassion, but it's the generations post now that the show is accessible in all of these ways and people that are sharing. People that watched it in real time as teenagers who are now sharing it with their kids. And I love, I just, I really love getting to be a part of it.
Kristin: Yeah. The viewership, the fans of the show are— us included, but I'm not trying to talk us up— but I think that our experiences with them over time has been really powerful too. And we, our podcast is spoiler free—
Seth: Oh, wow.
Kristin: This won't be spoiler free, and they'll know. We’ll warn them. But I think it underlines how many people are still coming to the series for the first time now.
Seth: I love that.
Kristin: Which is really incredible. Um, yeah. How has your relationship to the Buffy viewership been over the years? You know, like have you participated in cons and what has that been like?
Seth: I used to go to cons as a fan. Like, you know, San Diego, I've been going there since ‘95 and so becoming something that is participating in the other side of it, I'm, I'm ever conscious of the, the fan experience in that. And so I never want to go and give less or go and be in a headspace that I can't receive— You know, you meet you rapid fire meet like 2,000 people and you get like 60 to 90 seconds with each person. And I know what proceeds that is like weeks of anticipation, hours in line, and then you get this brief interaction. And I'm just always conscious about making that [Seth and Jenny laughing] 60 to 90 seconds count. Like what that person stood in line for without, you know, overdoing it or, or like sort of desperately performing. I really just try and make that a real moment.
Kristin: Yeah.
Seth: I don't always have the, the goods to back that up. [All laugh.] I make a point of not showing up unless I can be there.
Kristin: We had a hilarious experience at really our first con, which was in the UK. It's where we met James Marsters.
Seth: Sure.
Kristin: And you know, obviously he knows what con is. He knows exactly what you just said.
Seth: He’s very convincing in real life. [All laugh.]
Kristin: Well we did not. And so after our first day at the con, we were just like laying on the floor essentially in the, in the green room. And he just thought it was funny. He was like, "Is this your first con?" [All laughing.]
Seth: "Stay hydrated, ladies." [All laughing.]
Kristin: So we're here for a couple of reasons, right? We're here to talk to you about you and Buffy because we talk about Buffy, but also because this episode is airing on the day that you're a directorial debut movie, Changeland , is released. This is the first time that you've directed a feature. And so just again, jumping into the beginning, how and why, right? Like where did this movie come from and what made you want to step into the role that you have with the film?
Seth: Yeah. I— it's a very, it's a very strange thing cause it wasn't, it's not as if I have set out to be a director or the directing is the, is my aspiration or that I want to abandon acting in favor of like, "I'm an— I'm this kind of artist." Directing is something that I realized young that I had a capacity for by working so much with so many directors and see all of the ways that directors did things right or wrong. Or genuinely just paying attention to what the result of specific action was against making something. So, even on doing Buffy , you know, we had different directors every episode. So getting the experience, not just from the actors POV of a new director each week, having to jump into this well-oiled team and you know, not only put their own spin on it, but also not interfere with what makes the show work in the first place.
Kristin: Yeah.
Seth: So I had a lot of practical experience and when I started directing Robot Chicken, I realized that I had an ability to communicate with actors just because I love actors and because I am constantly on the other side of that exchange, and found myself longing for a particular type of communication or a particular type of handling or a way I wanted my questions to be answered. And so I just applied all that over the last 15 years of making this show. And I've gotten to direct a bunch of different things from animated stuff to live action shorts. But this was the first time I took on a live action narrative feature. And to be perfectly honest, it was a matter of course. It was not that, I'm like, "Oh, I'mma direct this movie, how much what I do…" It was more, I had this idea, um, and I knew this idea was not going to be able to get a big budget. And I also knew that the way that I was seeing this idea work was going to be difficult to translate. And you know, getting someone to want to direct your idea it, it presumes a lot of things.
Jenny: Mh-hmm.
Seth: It's that they feel the same way about your idea that they have a, a passionate investment in telling this story, that they understand all the subtleties or even the tone that you're trying to represent. And so for me, I was like, "I'm never going to get a lot of money to make this movie." And if I wanted to make it the most efficient and least expensive way to execute this would be for me to direct it. And also because I was directing it, I knew that I would have a direct line to actors and to communicate with them, not just to get them on board for the project, but to work with them over the course of the production to achieve the result of the movie.
Kristin: Yeah.
Seth: So how it happened was, uh, I went on vacation with my buddy Dan, and we had, you know, a little more than 48 hours in Thailand. And we, uh… actually, I guess it was like four days we spent. And we did exactly what's in the movie. We stayed at that hotel and we went out on speedboats and we went out on kayaks and we looked through these sea caves and we went to James Bond Island. And then we took a boat to another island, which is kind of like a Las Vegas in the middle of the Indian Ocean. [Kristin laughs.]
Jenny: Wow.
Seth: And everything that happened to us felt like a movie right when we got there. All of these places that are typically honeymoon destinations treated us as if we were a romantic couple. And you know, you're trying to explain for the first couple of days, "Nah, we’re just friends." [Kristin and Jenny laughing.] "Yes, we've made this special dinner with candles, and we covered your bed in rose petals, and we got you this milkshake with two straws." And everything was so ridiculous—
Kristin: Right.
Seth: —that I just kept saying to my buddy, I'm like, "Wow, we’re we living in a movie right now." And by the time we got to Ko Phi Phi, which you know, is the island that has a Muay thai ring in the middle of an open air bar, and tourists fight against locals, and tourists fight against each other. I was like, "This is a feature and I don't know what it is." But in my mind it was something like a Sideways or a Garden State or you know, just about friendship and life and the choices and decisions you make and the weight of them in the moment. And I love the idea that, you know, people follow all different paths for all kinds of reasons. And you, I've seen a lot of my friends waking up in the middle of their thirties and suddenly realizing that they're not where they want to be. Or they're in a relationship that they're not in love. Or they're at a job that they hate. And it, it all feels very desperate and final. And I wanted to present the idea that, you know, your, your life is yours. And it's not about what anybody else did. It's not about what your parents did. It's not about anything that anybody's ever told you. Like you're the only one that stewards your, your own destiny.
Kristin: Mh-hmm.
Seth: And so obviously there's circumstances that are beyond your control, but you are in charge of your own happiness. Um, and it's never too late to completely change your mind.
Kristin: Yeah.
Seth: Yeah. So I knew all of the set pieces and I had all these backdrops in mind because I'd had this incredibly cinematic experience with my buddy. And then I spent the next eight years [laughing] writing—
Kristin: Wow.
Seth: —something that emulated that and then, you know, spent a year trying to get the money, and shot the thing in four weeks, and then spent months editing and now it's coming out.
Kristin: And now here it is. So your relationship to your friends in the movie, it is something that really struck me because it's a really vulnerable and open relationship. And of course there's the hilarity, which apparently was real life when you went with your actual friends— [Jenny laughs]
Kristin: Of everybody thinking that you're a couple. But I do think that it's rare, maybe it will be less rare as the years go by to see two men being vulnerable with each other and like talking about their feelings and that being kind of at the heart of the film. And so I would love to hear from you. I know, you know, we know, obviously that you're friends with with Breckin Meyer and have been, it sounds like for forever.
Seth: Yeah we met when I was about 16.
Jenny: Jeez.
Kristin: So, is that, yeah, like where did that come from for you? Like, that's your lived experience. Where you trying to, you know, put that message out there as well?
Seth: Not intentionally, but I have gotten that, um, response from a lot of people that, um, that this is a, a non romantic, a deep friendship. And I, the thing that I wanted to pay service to was the idea that you gotta be a good friend.
Jenny: Mh-hmm.
Seth: Like you can't just take from your friends and then expect that you'll still have a valuable friendship. And I love the idea of my character calling his old buddy and saying, "I need you," and that friend, not hesitating at all to get there. But also calling my character to task for not doing the same thing. You know, not fulfilling the same obligation. Like when Dan called Brandon, Brandon wasn't always there.
Jenny: Right.
Seth: And so I liked the idea of that being at the heart of what they have to resolve so that, you know, it's not just them talking Brandon through what he's going to do about his, what he discovers is his wife's infidelity. It is about them having to fix their own relationship and Brandon making decisions that he wants to be better, that he wants to be a better husband, that he wants to be a better friend, he wants to be a better person. You know, I think he imagined in the beginnings of all of his onset that he was better. It's tough when you have a friend that is, that loves you enough to say, "You're fucking blowing it. You got to get it together." And I, and I like the idea that, that Dan is still a selflessly a catalyst for, for Brandon to make that change.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: I feel like it's more common to see like a man and a woman who are partnered, like, and the woman kind of being the catalyst for like, "Ah, you have to like open up." Or like, "We need to like shift things or whatever in order to like make this relationship really work more to make your other relationships work better."
Kristin: I'm just laughing because I asked you the question about like, um, masculinity and vulnerability, and I know that Jenny’s biggest question is about [Kristin laughing] WWE.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. The opposite— At the opposite end of the spectrum from, from a beautiful male friendship and shared vulnerability [Kristin laughing] there is, there's also Randy Orton.
Seth: Yeah.
Jenny: And prior to my research for this interview, I did not realize that you had hosted an episode of WWE Raw.
Seth: Yeah.
Jenny: And participated—
Seth: I was the first— I was the historic first celebrity guest host of Monday night Raw.
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: Congratulations.
Seth: Thanks.
Jenny: And also, congratulations on your stunning victory [Kristin laughing] in a three on three tag team match in which your partners were John Cena and Triple H.
Seth: Yeah, I mean it was an elimination, if you get right down to it. The bad guys cheated. But I got— that was my first experience meeting Randy. And, you know, I don't think any— anybody, people didn't know that I was such a fan of— people at the company didn't know I was such a fan of the company, or that I had a long history with the brand as a fan. And so I don't think, especially in 2009, Hollywood was especially respectful of the quality of the performers. And not just the athleticism but also like the actual stage presence, the ability to control an audience, understanding of like angles with cameras. And I went and did that whole night, which was hours long, and I was just blown away. Blown away by how organized and professional and like collaborative and awesome that whole gang was. It was,I was like, "I'm going to keep working with this guy." Wound up producing a series for them too and then coming back and doing stuff with them whenever they ask for it. But with Randy, that was like a long relationship that formed over time. Cause that night was the first night that we met and he was real tough on me both because we were going to be challenging each other in the ring, but also because he didn't know if I cared or had any respect or anything. And then we did the whole match and you know, I took a hit from him. [All laugh.]
Seth: He made contact. And ultimately at the end of the thing, he was like, "Oh, I think it got you there." And I was like, "Yeah you did." I didn't complain or anything. He was like, "That's great." And then I brought his clip on Conan and it got, it played really well. So then I saw him at WrestleMania following that and he was like, "You both watched the clip on Conan!" I was like, "It's a great clip for me too, man." [Kristin and Jenny laugh.] So we just stayed friends over time.
Kristin: Incredible.
Seth: Squashed our in-ring beef [Crosstalk. Kristin and Jenny laugh.] in exchange for getting to make a movie together. getting to make a movie together.
Kristin: So before we, before we pivot back to Buffy , because I know obviously you have about 4 billion things to do with the movie coming out today, June 7th, the day we're recording this interview— is to talk just for a minute about Thailand. Like you went to Thailand eight years ago and so you set the movie there and I would have, I would imagine that that's also a tricky line to walk right where you want to honor a culture but also not appropriate that culture. And so I wonder what that was like for you, that journey in walking that line?
Seth: Well, you know, in every instance Thailand is meant to be a supporting player in the film and not a comedic device. And so even though there's certain cultural differences that you can highlight for comedic effect, what I really wanted was this place to represent a safe haven for these two friends to have incredibly mature and complicated conversations that they probably couldn't have in the US. Like when you're around all the things that are very familiar to you, when you're entrenched in the life that is unsatisfying to you, it's impossible to even observe yourself sometimes. So getting to go as far away as Thailand to an environment that is almost alien in its, in its differences. You look around having grown up in America and you go to this place that seems not just picturesque but like another planet. And so I loved the idea of just representing it organically. I didn't want to make it… I wasn't, I wasn't trying to make a joke out of it or… In every instance I was like, "Oh, this is something that's just happening here and our characters get to experience it." So I just wanted it to all feel very matter of fact. I didn't want to highlight any of these things to make a specific point.
Kristin: Right, right.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Well, we're really excited on behalf of you and for all of our listeners to get the chance to see the film.
Seth: Thanks.
Kristin: One of our, speaking of our listeners, one of our listeners sort of gave us a
perfect bridge between these two things: Jenna on Facebook wrote in and said, "Since this interview is coinciding with your debut, if you could go back in time and direct one episode of Buffy , what would it be?"
Seth: Oh, that just was not me. I was so focused on that, playing that character that that is the… I really love the purity of just getting to perform something and you know, having other people be responsible for the producing and the staging and all of the organization that they're acting. Like I like, I really, um… Not that I didn't enjoy the experience of making a movie and directing myself, but I far more prefer the experience of either of those things isolated. Like I love to really be able to focus on a character and a performance and I love to be able to wholly focus on the direction of things. But it was a, it was just what I needed to do to get this movie made, to do everything. And as far as Buffy goes, we were so lucky with all the episodic directors that we had. I would never want to jump in and redo something that somebody else already.
Jenny: Sure.
Kristin: Yeah, you’re working with some pretty great directors over there. Do you have thoughts at all on the reboot, if we can even call it that? Buffy coming back?
Seth: I guess I haven't heard anything concrete. I've heard a couple of different versions, but you know, my opinion with reboots is pretty consistent. I feel like if whatever the new version of it accomplishes the same sentiment, the same effect, the same value as the original for a modern audience, then I don't begrudge a modern audience their access points. Something that they can own. You know, pop is really about a generation claiming a particular icon or story or song and, and… It's just a reality that the older you get, the less your kid is going to give a shit about what you love. You know, they may come to it and find their own access points to it, but for the most part it is very difficult to get a kid to want to look at something that is even 10 years old, let alone 20—
Jenny: Mh-hmm.
Seth: —and claim it for themselves. Especially if it's something that their parents still currently love you. You just sort of can't help it when you're young. You want to have your own opinions and tell your parents that they're stupid and you'll almost intentionally avoid anything that your parents are passionate about. And so I feel like Buffy is an incredibly valuable icon and this parable between growing up and the family that you choose versus the family that you're born into. And that's always a favorite thesis of mine. And so, you know, if the show works, and it gives a modern audience what we all love about the original, then I don't have an issue with it.
Kristin: Yeah. Well said.
Seth: Thanks. [Kristin and Seth laugh.]
Kristin: Perhaps we can sort of end there with what you just said about the, the original series and what it brought to us, right? Chosen family over family you were born into. It gave us so many metaphors about relationships, healthy versus unhealthy friendships. And I wonder if there is… The biggest takeaway from you. You know, like basically maybe to make it a simple question, how did your time on Buffy you change and shape your life?
Seth: Well, the thing, that thing that I kept with me about us, it was just, you know, there's, it's possible to be… calm. [Seth laughs.] It's possible to like thoughtfully react to things and… I dunno, I mean it was, it was an incredibly valuable experience just because of the work I got to do and the depth of the relationships I got to forge with all the people involved. That's pretty significant. And then, it changed fundamentally because it was the first time that I got to have an audience of my peers see me in a role that was arguably attractive.
Jenny: Mhmm.
Seth: You know, I'd always played like quirky, weird characters. I didn't get a lot of kissing the girl, and certainly didn't get like a swoonable reaction. And so I— That was the biggest change for me. It was suddenly an audience of people in my age group could see me in that kind of role. I've gotten to build on that.
Kristin: Yeah. Thank you so much for taking the time out to talk to us.
Jenny: Yeah.
Seth: Oh, no problem. My pleasure.
Kristin: Oz is a character that means so much to so many people as I'm sure you have heard.
Seth: Oh, me too.
Kristin: But we really appreciate the time. Uh… Jenny and I end our episodes with a howl out that we've never done that with anyone from the show, right? [Seth laughs.]
Jenny: Certainly not werewolf.
Kristin: Certainly not a werewolf. Um, so if it would please you, or at least if you'd like to, we'd love for you to howl out with us.
Seth: Sure. Yeah and that’s something fun that I get, too. Cause now I'm like part of this long legacy of a television werewolves. [All laugh.]
Seth: Whenever I meet anybody from like, you know Joe Manganiello, to uh…
Jenny: Oh, yeah!
Seth: Doesn't Isaiah play on S hadow Hunters ? Do you guys watch that?
Kristin: Oh, I don't know.
Jenny: Shadowhunters I have not seen.
Seth: [Crosstalk] —all the TV werewolves.
Kristin: Also, it’s Michael J. Fox a TV werewolf?
Seth: That’s true! [All laugh.] I don't think I've run into him… Oh my God, and Bateman too!
Kristin: Yeah!
Seth: I hadn’t thought about that. Next time I see Jason, I’ll be like "TV werewolves club!"
Kristin: Oh my god, the secret werewolf club.
Seth: I’m sure they would say, "Technically cinema werewolf." [Kristin and Jenny laugh.]
Kristin: You get one more stamp on your card if you’re cinema versus TV. All right. Well, Jenny is going to say "Until next time."
Jenny: Yes, and then we howl. And the how generally is shaped like, "Awoo!" But you can really do whatever you want. [Kristin and Jenny laugh.]
Jenny: Til next time…
Kristin, Jenny, and Seth: [Howling] AWOO!
Seth: Werewolves in the sound booth! [Kristin and Jenny laugh.]