Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 3.09: The Wish
Jenny: Oh my goodness hello!
Kristin: Hi!
Jenny: Hey it’s us, again–
Kristin: It is, we’re here–
Jenny: To tell you some things before the proper beginning of the episode… begins.
Kristin: Well [laughs]
Jenny: First of all, ho-ly smokes, we have got some new merch that we are very excited about. We have a magical kitten "bored meow" shirt–
Kristin: Yeah you heard that right: BORED MEOW.
Jenny: yeah, right??! that Diana Kresge illustrated for us, it is a thing of beauty. We also have a new version of the Smash the Demon Lizard Patriarchy shirt. Many of you have requested merch that would suit your goth lifestyle–
Kristin: [laughs] Merch that Kate Leth could have worn in high school!
Jenny: And we’re only–or now–too happy to oblige. We’ve got a brand new Smash the Demon Lizard Patriarchy designed by Devan Power and it is sick, both new shirts are so awesome.
Kristin: It has, like, two hammers, crossed, with a stake down the middle, it’s just really special.
Jenny: Yeeesss. Both of those things as well as Smash the Demon Lizard Patriarchy [high pitched] baby onesies!
Kristin: Yeah you can’t start ‘em too young, Jenny.
Jenny: And Smash the Demon Lizard Patriarchy original design tank tops, back by popular demand, they’re all up in our brand new shiny store, which you can still find by going to bufferingthevampireslayer.com and clicking on ‘shop’.
Kristin: Yes you can, you can. Now I wanna talk about something for a second over here. We–you know we have a Patreon, we talk about it here and there, because it’s the way that we support the podcast, it’s the way that we support our work. It keeps us going, and it also brings really fun things to you all in the land of Patreon, right? Something, though, remarkable has happened. Something that we didn’t plan. We couldn’t have planned it, right. We could not have conceived of it on our own. We got an email from one of our patrons that said "Hey, hey guys, just- I wanted to give you a heads-up, to let you know that in the secret Facebook group"-if you’re a patron at any level, the $1, the $5, the $10 level, you’re welcome in the secret Facebook group, and it is thriving. There’s, like, a thousand members. I mean it’s just a wonderland. So this person said "I wanted to make sure that you knew that we’re doing a holiday gift exchange."
Jenny: I can’t…
Kristin: I can’t. We set it up. They did this-they! You! You did this!
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: Of your own volition, set up a holiday gift exchange. So, there’s a big list, there were seventy-something people on it the last time I checked. We were invited to join and we have both joined individually.
Jenny: Yeeeessss.
Kristin: So everyone gets matched up with somebody else and then you exchange holiday gifts.
Jenny: [squeals]
Kristin: Because we’re all huge nerds and we love each other and we love the sense of community and it’s the holiday season and it’s just so special I could cry! If you would like to be a part of the holiday gift exchange, I believe it’s open until November 26th, that’s the day that the list sort of closes. Just become a patron if you’re not already, you’ll get into the secret Facebook group, and one of the events is the holiday gift exchange, so as long as you get there before the 26th of November, you’ll be entered in. Everybody is gonna be matched, two of you will be matched with– one of you will be matched with me, and one of you will be matched with Jenny.
Jenny: Oh my goodness.
Kristin: We’ll give each other gifts.
Jenny: The pressure!
Kristin: It’s so great, I believe it’s like a– you know, the spending limit is like $25, so it’s not, you know it’s not a super high thing and we’ll all be sort of at the same level of giving. Plenty of new t-shirts that you could, ehh…
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: [laughs] I know I’m kidding, I’m kidding! I’m just so moved by it, and so I wanted to let you all know about that, and a couple of other really fun things happening in the world of Patreon.
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: First of all, next week we’re off, right, we’re doing this three weeks on, one week off thing, so that we’re energized and we can write you good music and talk about things and be just ready to go. But next week we will be releasing a mailbag episode, and all of our $10 patrons get the mailbag episode. So we wanted to let you know, if you’re a patron at that level, you will not have an off week, you will have an on week. You’ll get a mailbag where we will talk about so many theories about why Angel might set a fire in his establishment. We will talk about Newton’s Second Law of Motion, and how that mathematically informs whether or not Buffy could have severed Gwendolyn Post’s arm with that piece of glass in Revelations. We will talk about the recent elections, we talk about a ton of stuff. It’s a really fun episode, and we’re excited to share it with all of you who are supporting us at that level, so thank you. And , for all of our patrons at any giving level, we get Buffywatches, and on December 9th, drum roll please–
Jenny: [makes drum roll sounds]
Kristin: We will be watching... Bad Girls together. Yeah, you heard me, Bad Girls.
Jenny: [giggles]
Kristin: Jenny and I will be sitting down, giggling our faces off–
Jenny: [high pitched] I’m very excited!
Kristin: at that Buffywatch, so you can check out all the details again over
on the secret Facebook page, the event is up there: December 9th, Bad Girls, you all, and us. To check out our Patreon page just go to bufferingthevampireslayer.com and click on ‘Patreon’. Oh! One more quick thing!
Jenny: Yeess?
Kristin: We have a little bit of extra adult language in this episode–
Jenny: Sorryyyyyy…
Kristin: We get into a conversation about the bases… and what they mean, so we know some of you listen to this with your children and perhaps you are comfortable with these things being discussed amongst your children–
Jenny: It would be very progressive of you!
Kristin: Sure! But we just wanted to give you a heads-up, we say some stuff! Maybe you’re cool with it, maybe you don’t want your k– I don’t know, I don’t know!
Jenny: Maybe you should listen first?
Kristin: Maybe you should listen first.
Jenny: Okay, cool.
Kristin: Great.
NOTES: [THEME SONG PLAYS]
Jenny: Hello, and welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer! A podcast where we are watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, one at a time, in chronological order. My name is Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: And I am Kristin Russo, and this week we are talking about Season Three, Episode Nine, The Wish, also known as The One With Anya.
Jenny: True.
Kristin: I left a pause for you so you could put in a crowd cheer.
Jenny: Yes!
NOTES: [CROWD CHEERS]
Kristin: Stay tuned at the end of this podcast every week for an original song, written by us, recapping the Buffy episode we are discussing.
Jenny: The Wish was written and directed by dream team Marti Noxon and David Greenwalt, respectively–
Kristin: Yeeeeaaaaahhh!
Jenny: And it originally aired on December 8th, 1998.
Kristin: Woo! Ingrid Michaelson’s birthday!
Jenny: Also one of my friends who isn’t famous’s birthday.
Kristin: [laughs] This is the one where Cordelia’s wish for a Buffy-free Sunnydale comes true, plunging her into a world where vampires have control of the town.
Jenny: Ooh "plunging."
Kristin: Yeah IMDB has had a long string of good weeks–
Jenny: They hired a new writer for Season Three...recaps.
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah they upped the ante for Season Three descriptions.
Jenny: Speaking of upping the ante…
Kristin: Uh huh…
Jenny: If I may.
Kristin: You may.
Jenny: We see a brand new kind of demon at the beginning of this episode, and I’m calling it a Spawn of Cthulhu…
Kristin: Sure sure sure Jenny: Acolyte of Cthulhu…
Kristin: Sure, I’m calling it Zoidberg.
Jenny: Also… [laughs]
Kristin: [laughs]
Jenny: totally valid! Either way-Kristin: I actually-- in my notes I called it Octopus Head, and then I was like "Wait a second! I know another octopus head."
Jenny: Uh what a— no offence if you are an octopus-like humanoid, or if you have a lot of mouth tentacles, but like–
Kristin: [laughs]
Jenny: it’s really, for a human who has grown up around other humans–
Kristin: Yes...
Jenny: who have sideways mouths–
Kristin: Yes we’ve been socially conditioned–
Jenny: and no mouth tentacles–
Kristin: Right, of course.
Jenny: the mouth tentacles covering, almost covering, a vertical, spiny-toothed mouth–
Kristin: Yeah it’s pretty rough.
Jenny: Very upsetting.
Kristin: It’s pretty rough, and it’s pretty, like, it’s pretty accurate with what is going on underneath the ocean, in my opinion. I mean, maybe not–
Jenny: Like who knows what’s down there–
Kristin: this exact demon but right. Jenny I’m not exactly sure how you feel about oceans, but I am terrified of them, because of exactly these kind of Zoidbergs.
Jenny: I have a healthy, yet fearful, respect for the oceans. A long time ago I wanted to be an ocean person-- oh wait, that sounded like I wanted to be a mermaid or something.
Kristin: [laughs]
Jenny: I wanted to be like a marine biologist. I was very into, like, sharks growing up, and we had some saltwater tanks for reasons no one can explain–
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: and I had like eels and seahorses and whatnot growing up. I was, like, very into saltwater. But also–
Kristin: I mean it’s a very healing substance.
Jenny: Yeah, so healing, full of magnificent creatures, w-hales...
Kristin: Magic.
Jenny: Magic… ?
Kristin: I’m sorry, I’m just giving the facts about the ocean.
Jenny: Right right right.
Kristin: Saltwater, healing properties, magic–
Jenny: Whales…
Kristin: and the unknown–  
Jenny: Sea cucumbers…
Kristin: abyss of terror.
Jenny: Right, right, it is deeply alarming when you think about the possibility that the ocean might contain a creature–
Kristin: Right?? You don’t know!
Jenny: so large we can’t even fath- You know what also I sometimes think
about: what if the Earth is an egg, and that molten core that scientists love to go on and on about–
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: is actually–
Kristin: The bottom of the ocean?
Jenny: An embryo…
Kristin: [laughs] Go onnn!
Jenny: That’s the yolk of the EarthKristin: Okay.
Jenny: And soon, as global warming continues to increase...
Kristin: Of course, that’s not a real thing, but yes.
Jenny: [sarcastically, dismissively] yeah that’s made up. The Earth will hatch, we will all be cast off like so much useless debris headed for the galactic dustbin.
Kristin: Uh huh.
Jenny: And whatever has been growing and forming for millennia inside the egg of the Earth–
Kristin: This is never–
Jenny: will hatch.
Kristin: gonna connect back to the ocean, is it?
Jenny: No, I’m just talking about, likeKristin: [laughs] I’m waiting. I’m like, I’m waiting, I’m waiting-
Jenny: fear, the unknown, mysteries of the earth. Even deeper than the ocean. It’s just like another… when I think- my ponderings, my childhood ponderings upon the depth and unknowability of the ocean, naturally lead to that deeper fear.
Kristin: Wow. Wow. Well I hope that everyone is happy that they’ve chosen to listen to Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast where we terrify you about the possibilities that lie within the earth’s core.
Jenny: I- yeees. So, we see here a rare moment of practicality or the acknowledging of practical reality, which is that not all demons go poof when you kill them.
Kristin: Right, not all demons go- which i think we talked about early in the season. I remember you talking about the fact that the decision for Vampires to dust was a practical one because what would we have done with all of those bodies? What would they have just practically have done filming-wise with all of those dead bodies, you know?
Jenny: Right, and then what would they do, you know, in terms of being high school students?
Kristin: Would they have to just- would there be like a burying… ?
Jenny: We see in this episode, there’s an incinerator.
Krirstin: Right, right… But yeah, and I think, watching this, I thought this was a fun moment for us, learning about their relationship and their coming together as the trio of Scoobies,right now. They’re just like- you know, Buffy’s been through a broken heart and Xander and Willow are now suffering broken hearts and they’re bonding over it and she- Buffy says, "If you guys hadn’t been here to help me… I might have died."
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: I mean, I don’t really buy it because the whole opening scene with her, she’s literally as she’s quote "dying" she's rolling her eyes and making jokes still. So you feel like she would have been ok but the purpose of this is to underline the Buffy we actually see in this episode once we get past the Wish, which is a Buffy that acts alone with no help, whatsoever. Like, it’s really in stark contrast.
Jenny: Right, right, right,right, right. Also, everyone’s broken at the same time!
Kristin: [cute voice] everyone’s broken. And I suppose misery does like company, so it’s a good moment for the Scoobies, sharing the sadness.
Jenny: Yeah... you know who doesn’t have anybody to share their pain with?
Kristin: [sympathetically] Yeah.
Jenny: Cordelia.
Kristin: Yeah...
Jenny: She’s just sharing her pain with open flames.
Kristin: I love this scene though, I meanJenny: Who doesn’t love spitefully burning pictures of someone who hath scorned you?
Kristin: Cordelia, like, OK. I don’t want for Cordelia’s heart to be broken, I don’t want for Cordelia to have fallen down a stairway hole and to have been impaled, but I also don’t want Cordelia to date Xander, so there’s a bit of a win in this episode for me.
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: [laughs] Because I feel like Cordelia is channeling her pain and finding some of her anger that is going to keep her away from men who are stupid. Men, as she says later on, she wishes for a world with no men except for maybe the…
Jenny: I believe she says the beautiful and the very intelligent.
Kristin: What ? No! The beautiful and the very intelligent? Wait,here’s what I
wrote downJenny: [laughs]
Kristin: [laughs] Jenny- we know what men Jenny wants to keep around. Cordelia wants to keep around no men except for the "dumb and feeble".
Jenny: [laughs] huhuh w  hat?  ! [high pitch voice] That’s what she said?
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: I don’t know… I think you had-there was a spell...
Kristin: Do you want to go and check the tape?
Jenny: Ah, no, let’s just let it ride.
Kristin: Let’s go back and check the tape.
[audio clip from The Wish:
Cordelia: "In fact, I wish all men, except, maybe the dumb and the really feeble/agreeable/beautiful kind, would disappear off the face of the earth. That would be so cool..."]
Kristin: OK, so we’ve played the sound clip and one thing that’s clear is that Cordelia does not say is beautiful and [laughs] intelligent, but that is what Jenny heard, so maybe this is a little magical scene where you hear what you want to hear.
Jenny: You hear what you want.
Kristin: But it’s not unclear, she does say dumb and maybe feeble, maybe beautiful? Maybe, what was the word that you thought it might be?
Jenny: Agreeable.
Kristin: Agreeable. Dumb and agreeable would make sense, so we don’t know what this line is, maybe somebody has the script and can let us know-
Jenny: Please?
Kristin: What that last line was supposed to be. But regardless, point being, I like to live in a world where Cordelia is just not happy with men, you know?
Kistin: I like to live in a world where, cue the blues riff, cue the metal guitar solo, cue the convertible flaming into it’s parking spot, the door opening, the
high heel dropping to the floorJenny: This is like the best entrance in the series- [laughs]
Jenny: It’s so great, it’s so great.
Kristin: Like Spike drives through the fucking sign, he’s got a cigarette, whatever. Buffy has some good moments. But we get this scene where we hear Willow say, "Amy said she looked pretty scary".
Jenny: [sounds of agreement]
Kristin: Let’s just play a little bit of the guitar solo.
NOTES: [guitar solo]
Jenny: Yeahhhhh.
Kristin: It’s so good, it’s just so good. It’s sooo good. And don’t you worry, Kate Leth is going to join us this episode, she’s got a lot to say, but everybody just hold tight, we’ll get there, not quite yet, but holy shit Cordelia! This- whooo!...
Jenny: Also real, Harmony is the worst.
Kristin: Harmony is the worst. Mercedes McNab, the actress who plays harmony, does a fucking amazing job in this scene. I mean, she does an amazing job, hard stop. But I just feel like we see that Harmony is the worst and also that Harmony is so, just, riddled with insecurity, all at one time. You know, you can play a mean girl, or you can play a mean girl and I just, Mercedes McNab, shout out to you. We should, we should try to get Mercedes McNab on the show!
Jenny: [sing-songs] Come and talk to us Mercedes.
Kristin: I’ll work on it. I’ll work on it everybody, but in the meantime, let’s
discuss CordeliaJenny: [sarcastic] Who’s that new Cordette?
Kristin: [sarcastic] I don’t know Jenny, who is that?
Jenny: [sarcastic] Her name is Anya, I wonder if we’ll ever see her again.
Kristen: [sarcastic] I wonder if we will. I mean, if we don’t, I still
understand why she is your favouriteJenny: Totally.
Kristen: character.
Jenny: [sarcastic] We’ve seen the full 360 degrees of Anya.
Kristin: [laughs] She’s great, she knows Prada from Payless and she’s not siding with the Cordettes.
Jenny: Nice.
Kristin: She’s siding with our Cordelia.
Jenny: Hell yeah.
Kristin: She isJenny: She’s probably got the Cordelia appreciation jingle as her Ringtone.
Kristin: 100%, 100%, it actually plays out of her little… what do you call that?
Jenny: Her amulet? [Laughs heartily]
Kristin: Her amulet, right, it just plays out of her amulet at the right, at all
the right momentsJenny: Aww, imagine if we had amulets, if we sold amulets that just played the Cordelia song? Wow.
Kristin: It would be pretty rude to Anya, I think. Anya will eventually, I’m
sure, will have a jingleJenny: [sarcastic] If we ever see her again…
Kristin: and if we have an amulet it should probably play Anya’s jingle. Anyway, we’re just too far ahead of ourselves here. Let’s go to Jonathan for a moment, because there’s this moment right. Cordelia meets Anya, Anya’s like, "yo, I’ve got your number girl", they have a moment, maybe they’re in
the running for the sexual tension awardJenny: Wow.
Kristin: There’s a lot, there’s a lot of people in the running for it this episode. We’ll get there. But then, Harmony pulls this bullshit on Cordelia, she’s like "Hey, now that you’re like single and ready to fucking mingle I’ve got just the guy for you" and it’s Jonathan.
Jenny: And it’s Jonathan, drinking a huge glug. [giggle]
Kristin: drinking a huge glug, oblivious to the entire world.
Jenny: You know, while I was watching this scene and feeling my little heart-strings being pulled on behalf of Jonathan and Cordelia, I thought to myself, "Why does that one Cordette look so familiar?" So, I looked her up, and you might remember her from a film entitled Bring It On- [excitedly]
Kristin: Oh wow!
Jenny: in which she played Whitney, or as you might remember her more readily WoWoWoWhitney-
Kristin: Wow! Holy crap!
Jenny: Which is how they announce her in a cheer.
Kristin: [Laughs heartily] That’s good Jenny. We always likeJenny: Thank you!
Kristin: when you give us cheers.
Jenny: So, I’m just saying, this is at least the second Bring It On- 
Kristin: Cast member!
Jenny: alumnKristin: YeaaahhJenny: Actually, yeah, that’s 2001, isn’t it?
Kristin: Uh, Bring It On ?
Jenny: Bring It On. 
Kristin: I believe that’s correct.
Jenny: So, maybe Bring It On just did all their cast- pulled all their castingKristin: They were like, ‘Were you in Buffy ?’Jenny: from Buffy. 
Kristin: ‘You’re in.’
Jenny: (laughs)
Kristin: "Or were you Kristin’s cousin? You’re in."
Jenny: Wait, what?
Kristin: My cousin is in Bring It On . She’sJenny: Which cousin?
Kristin: Uh, Jennifer? Jennifer Peterson?
Jenny: I’m sorryKristin: She’sJenny: What?  
Kristin: She’s an extra.
Jenny: Oh, it’s 2000.
Kristin: She’s an extra!
Jenny: Sorry, what ?! Where?!
Kristin: She’s an extra! There’s, there’s a scene in Bring It On, where they’re sitting in the- and like they’re all sitting in a classroom and Jennifer, my cousin, everyone, is in the classroom, she’s sitting like two seats behind
whoever the guy is in that sceneJenny: Whaaat !?
Kristin: Yup, and she’s prominently featured because she’s right behind him, and so, you know, she’s in a lot of the shots!
Jenny: How have we been together for eight years and you haveKristin: I dunno.
Jenny: Failed to disclose thisKristin: I dunno.
Jenny: Vital information?
Kristin: You won’t see her name in the credits, she was just an extra, also
her name wasn’t even Jennifer Peterson then. SoJenny: Wow. 
Kristin: But, whatever. If you’re in Buffy Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: Or you’re Kristin’s cousin, you got in the movie Bring It On. Moving
right alongJenny: Ha!
Kristin: [laughs] So this scene, right, this- Cordelia is, has a lotta high highs and a lotta low lows, in very short spans of time in this episode, you know. She’s been impaled, she’s fuckin’- Cordelia, I- you know what, Jenny, I can’t make it any further, we have to fuckin’ play her jingle.
Jenny: Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah.
Kristin: We might play it more than once. But just give it to, just give it to us.
NOTES: [CORDELIA’S JINGLE PLAYS] Cordelia (Aaaah) I love you, Cordelia (Aaaah) You’re perfect, Cordelia (Aaaah)
Kristin: I just like, I might, I might do this, I might give it to her again, for
specific reasons, but justJenny: Wow.
Kristin: I wanted to give it to Cordelia… her jingle. I wanted to give Cordelia’s-
Jenny: [laughing] Thank you for clarifying.
Kristin: jingle to her, because, she is– such a fucking badass? This girl just
fell on a pole that wentJenny: Yeah.
Kristin: through her fucking body. She got literally heart- so heartbrokenby the boy she loved, IJenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: I don’t know why she loved him but she didJenny: Uh-huh, uh-huh, uh-huh.
Kristin: She’s heartbroken, she’s impaled, she fuckin’ was home for one
goddamn weekJenny: [laughing]
Kristin: she put on her fuckin’ best outfit we may have ever seenJenny: Yuh-huh.
Kristin: Rolled up to school like, ‘Fuck ya’ll,’ got out of her fuckin’ car, got bullied by these assholes- 
Jenny: [laughing]
Kristin: And is still walking through the fuckin’ halls. She shows up at the
fuckin’ BronzeJenny: Yeah.
Kristin: She gets pushed into the garbage, she breaks her stitches, she’s back at school again-
Jenny: Ugh.
Kristin: the fuckin’ next day! She fucking rules. 
Jenny: I know.
Kristin: She rulesJenny: I know, I know.
Kristin: I love her Jenny: I know.
Kristin: Thank god we have a jingle that sums it up, WHOOOH! Okay!
Jenny: Okay. [takes a breath] So, quick break from CordeliaKristin: Yes, go to OzJenny: Yes, because Oz and Willow, right? We see this display of
unprecedented emotional maturityKristin: Yes.
Jenny: In which Oz is not only able to articulate what he wants, but then
also, and needsKristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And then also, when he like, feels, what Willow’s, like, putting back to him, is able to identify that, and its origins, and immediately say, "Hey, I feel like I’ve told you what I need, and you’re saying this stuff anyway, and all I can glean from that is that you’re like, not respecting what I want and you just wanna make yourself feel better- "
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: "so please, respect my wishes and go away.’
Kristin: If ever there was a character who would have this emotional maturity, it would be Oz.
Jenny: How did he get like this? Are hisKristin: I thinkJenny: No, Willow’s parents are therapists, and it hasKristin: Well, Willow’s parents are like the worst.
Jenny: Like, mangled her, right?
Kristin: I mean, well, we don’t know Willow’s parents, butJenny: I was gonna say, like, are Oz’s parents therapists, and have they
like, helpedKristin: It seems likeJenny: Forge him into an emotionally mature young adult?
Kristin: I would, I would guess that Oz has good parentsJenny: Yeah.
Kristin: I would guess, from his emotional maturity and his ability to know himself. You know, I mean, we talked about that even back in, like, ‘Beauty and the Beast,’ that Oz is a character who knows his weaknesses, who elects
to control them, who elects to lean on his friends when he needs themJenny: Mm-hmm, mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Kristin: Who is able to, in this moment, because this is not how a breakup would go if you were Kristin Russo, and you were 36! It wouldn’t even go
this wayJenny: N-noted! [laughs]
Kristin: You know what I mean? Yeah, watch out Jenny!
Jenny: Yikes!
Kristin: But it’s like, my emotions get the best of me more often than not.
Oz hasJenny: Uhhuhh.
Kristin: [laughs] You’re surprised? No, yeah, you wouldn’t knowJenny: Ah, I was just agreeing with you as your co-host, like, you know
yourself bestKristin: Right.
Jenny: You must be right.
Kristin: Right, right, right.
Jenny: [sarcastic] I’ve never seen anything, like I’ve never seen your
emotions get the best of you for exampleKristin: Yet. [laughing]
Jenny: - but, I’m sure it happens.
Kristin: But Oz is not this. And to Willow’s credit, neither is Willow. I mean,
Willow is definitely, Oz is correct in his assessment thatJenny: Yeah…
Kristin: She’s trying to feel better, but she also doesn’t push it too far.
Jenny: Yeah, she can like, take in what he says andKristin: Yes.
Jenny: Acknowledge that it’s sort of like, on the money.
Kristin: Right, she’s able to give, she’s able to give him space, so that’s great. Um, my next note, I have to remember what it’s in reference to…
"LOL,"– Oh! I wrote "LOL John Lee," becauseJenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Well, now let’s move to people who have a little less emotional maturity! [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah, that guy sucks!
Kristin: Well, John Lee, but I’m talking aboutJenny: Oh, Cordelia?
Kristin: The, theJenny: Being like, ‘oh, let me pretend… ’ What?! Who would that ever…
Kristin: [laughing]
Jenny: Work on? Xander hasKristin: [As Cordelia] "Do I have something in my teeth?"
Jenny: Depth perception, and can see how far apart their heads areKristin: Right.
Jenny: Can’t he?
Kristin: Well, Cordelia, I mean, I think the real question here, Jenny, is not about Xander’s depth perception, it’s about how Cordelia asks John Lee to
see if she has something in her teethJenny: [laughs] And then, wobbles her head-
Kristin: And then tilts her head back and forth and John Lee, also til- I think
it’s really about John Lee and Cordelia here more thanJenny: Also, is he like John, middle name Lee? Or is she just calling him by his full name?
Kristin: Mm, I don’t know, I mean I had people in high school who I would
likeJenny: Call by their full name, sure sure sure sure sure.
Kristin: Yeah, so he might just be one of those people. Anyhow, John Lee breaks the news to Cordelia– ugh, you know what this needs, Jenny? You know what this fuckin’ guy does? [As John Lee] "Sorry, man, um, uh, I’d really like to make out with you, but we’re gonna have to do that in private because I wanna keep my reputation, cuz I’m a fuckin’ dude and I’m the worst?"
NOTES: [THE PATRIARCHY jingle plays; spooky music] The patriarchy! [thunder clap, evil laughter]
Kristin: Yeah, you’re right, Jenny. It was, it was the patriarchy, at work.
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: The patriarchy was at work here in this scene, I know it’s a shock to all of us.
Jenny: [sarcastic] Well, it’s just that women are things and accessories, and
tools forKristin: Yes.
Jenny: For socialKristin: Status.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Yeah, social status tools to, yes, to increase one’s powerJenny: Yeeeah.
Kristin: Uh, yes, of course, of course, of course, of course. What’s beautiful about this patriarchal moment is that the next moment I have noticed that happens here in this scene in the school is between Anya and Cordelia,
where Anya says, "Can I just say: men?"
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: And Cordelia says, "Seconded." And I think it’s great, thank you for listening!
Jenny: [laughs] I think it’s great, too, though it does prevent them from passing the Bechdel test, in this scene.
Kristin: [laughs] Does it? Does it count? OkayJenny: Right right right, if you’re just disgusted with the concept of men?
Kristin: If you’re disgusted with men? Okay, if it’s two women speaking about a man , you don’t pass the Bechdel test. If it’s two women smashing the patriarchy by being like, "We don’t fucking need men… "
Jenny: Ah, yes.
Kristin: Does it? It’s a good question. I pose it to you, listeners.
Jenny: Mm, please.
Kristin: Does that moment count, or does it not, in the Bechdel test system?
Jenny: Do let us know!
Kristin: Yes, please. One other thing Anya mentions in this scene that I took note of was, she says something like, "I was so, I knew immediately or like I was so glad to find somebody else who obviously read W," which I thought
was, like, a political magazineJenny : NoKristin: Having to do with George WashingtonJenny: George W. Bush?
Kristin: No, George Washington!
Jenny: I don’t know why that’s how it’s filed in my brain.
Kristin: [laughs] It is not, it is a magazine that still is being printed today, but I did a dig just to see what was happening on W Magazine in the 90s, and it is a joy! It is a joy. I will do my best to put up a post on some of our social media platforms, some 1998 covers of W Magazine. I’m looking right now at one with Liv Tyler.
Jenny: Wow!
Kristin: There’s another one with Gwyneth Paltrow, 1998, like, who even remembered that Gwyneth Paltrow was on the covers of magazines in 1998 ?
Jenny: Yeah, that’s wild.
Kristin: Sometimes I forget that everyone that I- is in my orbit now was still
in an orbitJenny: Right, right, right.
Kristin: Back in the 90s, you know? We were all, you got Kate, what’s her
name, KateJenny: Winslet!
Kristin: NoJenny: Beckinsale!
Kristin: -Moss.
Jenny: Moss!
Kristin: [laughs] I should have let you keep going.
Jenny: Leth!
Kristin: Kate Leth was on the cover of W Magazine, 1998. She was seven… I
don’t know how old Kate was in 1998, actually. AnyhowJenny: So, we go to the Bronze, right?
Kristin: We do.
Jenny: ‘Cause Cordelia’s keeping up appearances, and you know who else is trying to keep up appearances, is Xander.
Kristin: Not, yeahJenny: Not nailing it.
Kristin: Cordelia’s fucking nailing it.
Jenny: Yeah, she might actually be having a good time.
Kristin: We go to Xander, we go to the Scoobies sitting on the couch, you know, back in their, like, pity party moment, where there’s a really great
discussion, I thinkJenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: -that they have about Guilt-A-Palooza, as they call it.
Jenny: Yeeess
Kristin: Shout-out to Lollapalooza, from the 90s. Jenny did you ever-
Jenny: And also now, Lollapalooza is ongoingKristin: Yeah but like, let’s be real about LollapaloozaJenny: Woooowww…
Kristin: No, I mean like, it was invented in the 90s, it was a…
Jenny: What’s the thing where you take off your glove and you slap somebody across the face with it?
Kristin: [laughs]
Jenny: And then that means you have to duel, or something?
Kristin: I’m just sayingJenny: Gauntlet. Thrown.
Kristin: Lollapalooza in the 90s was better than Lollapalooza any other time.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: Don’t you think?!
Jenny: I meanKristin: Is it just ‘cause I was a child of the 90s?
Jenny: No no no, I pledge all my loyalty to any 90s version of anything.
Kristin: Wasn’t Lollapalooza invented by Blues Traveler?
Jenny: I think you’re thinking of the Horde Festival.
Kristin: The Horde Tour! You’re right!
Jenny: [spelling] H-O-R-D-E.
Kristin: You’re right. [spelling] H-O-R-D-E. Okay, so Lollapalooza just created itself.
Jenny: Yes, it spawned itself, molecularly speakingKristin: [laughs]
Jenny: there was a stamenKristin: Yeah.
Jenny: and a- I’m trying to think of other flower anatomy- a bee pollinated… yeah.
Kristin: A bee pollinated a PaloozaJenny: [laughing]
Kristin: And out came Lollapalooza!
Jenny: But it’s weird that it wasn’t a Bee-a-palooza.
Kristin: Just- for people who weren’t around in the 90s, I just wanna be very clear that this was a joke that lasted for many years. I certainly attached ‘palooza’ to many a thing.
Jenny: I think that’s still ongoing.
Kristin: [stammering in a vaguely disagreeing manner]
Jenny: I mean, no, I’m saying like, it really has stood the test of time.
Kristin: Okay, okay, but it was better in the 90s.
Jenny: O-kay, we get the theme.
Kristin: [laughing] Anyhow, they’re having this conversation about Guilt-a-palooza versus Xander’s speech about living in the now. Now, I do- and Buffy’s like, "You know, Xander, you’re making sense, we’re young, we have a lot of life to live-"
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: And I just think it’s a good conversation! I think Xander is a piss-baby and I think that he fucked up a lot of shit, and I don’t really appreciate it, so I don’t want him to get to live in the now, but I do think it’s
a general modeJenny: Great point. A general great point.
Kristin: A general mode of operating, a general mode of moving through things that hurt, things that are painful. It’s wonderful if we can grab onto the now, and live there, instead of what Willow is really excelling at, which is just rolling around in a pile of guilt.
Jenny: Right, just wallowing. So, they do that, and it lasts for approximately one second.
Kristin: Yup, Buffy goes to get chocolateJenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Also a great tool for heartache of any kind.
Jenny: Yes, a salve, for a wounded soul.
Kristin: And then we see Cordelia hold her injury site.
Jenny: Ah, yes, [laughing] ‘injury site.’
Kristin: [laughing] And- well, what do youJenny: And she walks out into a dark alley.
Kristin: She does.
Jenny: And Buffy follows her, of course, and attempts to have a heart to heart with her, but Cordelia’s not biting.
Kristin: No, Cordelia’s not biting, but someone else is! A vamp!
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: Probably attracted by the scent of, like, Cordelia’s open wound, you know?
Jenny: Oh God !
Kristin: Right? Like, she’s just like, walking into an alley, likeJenny: Wearing a dress the color of blood.
Kristin: Right, and recently injured.
Jenny: Smelling her open wound. Jesus. 
Kristin: Sorry.
Jenny: And then she ends up in the trash heap.
Kristin: Right, she does. And she makes a very good connection which is,
"You know, Buffy, I’ve been thinking: what is the one thing that like, continues to put me in these horrible situations? It’s you!"
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah...
Kristin: She asks that age-old question, you know, that we have all asked ourselves, at one point or another, or multiple times, "Why me? Why do I get impaled?"
Jenny: Yes. [laughs]
Kristin: And the answer is, Buffy Summers!
Jenny: The answer is-
Kristin: I guess.
Jenny: Well, the answer she thinksKristin: Yeah.
Jenny: She doesn’t understand that without Buffy Summers, which we will very swiftly learn, she would not just be impaled, she would be wearing
colorless clothingKristin: Right.
Jenny: She would be having to go home earlyKristin: Adhering to a curfew, no student driving…
Jenny: She would be in an incinerator.
Kristin: Ohh, yeahJenny: Let’s just cut to the chase. [laughs]
Kristin: Oh, boy .
Jenny: Okay, so, right, so Anya sort of finally achieves her mission, which is to pull a wish out of Cordelia, and it’s not what she was expecting.
Kristin: [laughing] Let’s just get into- let’s just pause for a second for Anya, because Anya saying, "Don’t you wish" several times is one of my favorite things that happens. "Don’t you wish?" And she just pauses. "Don’t you
wish?" It’s just, it’s funny to meJenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah...
Kristin: Any demon who, like, struggles in a very human way is a thing that I love. Like, she just, like, fuckin’ itchin’ for it. Come on, man, she thought this was gonna be easier.
Jenny: She’s puttin’ down those breadcrumbs, but the goose is not hungry today!
Kristin: Right, and so now- sorry Jenny, continue, Cordelia makes her wish…
Jenny: Yes, Cordelia makes her wish, and even though Anya’s peppering the conversation with things like, "Xander? He’s an utter loser," Cordelia’s wish is still, "I wish Buffy Summers never came to Sunnydale." [intense voice] Fade to white after vein-faced Anya is like [gravelly, as demon Anya] " Done ."
Kristin: [gravelly, as demon Anya] " Done. " So good.
Jenny: Great, great.
Kristin: Fantastic! And then, and then Cordelia realizes immediately what has happened. And testament to Cordelia’s badassery, she is fully present in the fact that she has switched realities.
Jenny: Yeah, she is just like down.
Kristin: She’s fine. She is fine, she’s like, "great, that scary, veiny good fairy… "
Jenny: So, like, she runs into the Cordettes straight away.
Kristin: And then Cordelia has this cackle.
Jenny: Oh my God, it’s so good, she’s like, "heheheh!"
Kristin: Really. If you missed it, I don’t think you would’ve, listener, butJenny: But you’ve gotta go back if you didn’t hear it.
Kristin: Go back, to right after the wish is granted...
Jenny: It’s so great. She’s so thrilled with herself.
Kristin: Just so pleased. As pleased as punch.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah. And feeling very powerful.
Kristin: So, in the new reality, there’s a lot that’s troubling. I want to - on my list of troubling things, up at the top is Ted Ginger going for third in front of everyone.
Jenny: Okay, so Ted Sherwin, I think, going for third with Ginger in front of everyone.
Kristin: [laughs] Oh, sorry.
Jenny: So, In Kristin’s version of events, Ted and Ginger have morphed into some sort of like a two-person…
Kristin: Two-headed…yeah, a two-headed PDA monster. 
Jenny: [laughs] But this is - everything else is so repressed and dialed down, but then there’s, like, just teenagers, I’m gonna say it, finger-banging in front of other people?  
Kristin: Wow. You did it, you went there.
Jenny: They w  ent there! I’m just naming it.
Kristin: That’s a thing that certainly would happen in high school, though. It is, it just is.
Jenny: At school?!
Kristin: You don’t have many places to finger-bang in high school!
Jenny: I know, but –
Kristin: I’m upset by it. I have never, uh, done this in a public place, but I have seen, I have been witness to actions like this. Maybe it was after high school, but still.
Jenny: In a well-lit...?
Kristin: In a well-lit.
Jenny: -classroom?
Kristin: No. That’s inappropriate.
Jenny: In a lunchroom?
Kristin: No, but let’s just do a little bit of Hellmath here.
Jenny: Alright.
NOTES: [HELLMATH JINGLE PLAYS] (piano) Hellmath
Kristin: When you’re a teenager in high school, you have limited time in which to finger-bang - I’m sorry, for people who are listening to this with your children, I apologize.
Jenny: Hey, it’s not our fault. It’s Ted... and Ginger .
Kristin: It’s not, don’t blame me. But you have a limited time to do things of a sexual nature, ok, so we don’t have to keep saying finger-bang. But, you can, maybe in the extracurricular time, maybe you go to the mall, maybe you can borrow your mom’s car, and that’s a great place.
Jenny: Right, but what do they mean by doing it in front of everyone?
Kristin: I’m doing Hellmath here! You’ve got some - maybe you have four working hours in the day when you might be able to do this thing.
Jenny: Engage in sexual activity.
Kristin: Now, in the new reality, you have to be home right after school, so I ask you, Jenny, when is Ted supposed to try to finger-bang Ginger if not in the high school, during the day? I was upset at first, but now that I’ve done the Hellmath...it’s kind of reasonable.
Jenny: Okay, but – so maybe they were, like, at recess, sitting under a tree…
Kristin: [laughing, sarcastic] You know, high school recess?
Jenny: We had recess!
Kristin: I feel like maybe it’s, like, free period. Did you call it recess, in high school?
Jenny: Well, I guess we called it lunch, but you would go outside or whatever. Regardless, maybe they were under the old oak tree.
Kristin: Yes, the old oak tree.
Jenny: Far enough away from everyone as to sort of feel alone, but also still very much in everyone’s peripheral vision. Whatever the circumstances, this is my least favorite thing about this reality.
Kristin: I agree, I agree. I’m there with you, I don’t like it. Thank you for staying with us, listener, if you’re here. If we’ve lost you, I’m so sorry, goodbye.
Jenny: Also, I want to say one thing that you may choose to edit out at a later point, which is to acknowledge that it’s entirely possible that third base, now, in 2017, is no longer finger-banging.
Kristin: Noooo, the bases are always the same!
Jenny: What if it’s changed? But, just in case.
Kristin: Jenny, there’s four bases!
Jenny: But if the bases have changed, Kristin, if the bases had changed, we would be the last people to know about it.
Kristin: I understand, but you can’t change the bases !
Jenny: Where’s Gaby Dunn when you really need her?
Kristin: Awww, Gaby Dunn! I’ll text her right now.
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: We’ll know by the end of the episode.
Jenny: Great.
NOTES: [GABY DUNN JINGLE PLAYS] She loves being mentioned… Oooh that Gaby Dunn!
Kristin: Beautiful! Okay, Gaby has been texted. Hopefully...I’ll turn my sound on, just in case she texts back while we’re taping. She probably will. She’s very good, she’s a very good phone-a-friend, especially for matters of base and sexual deed uhh...
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: Math.
Jenny: She’d be proud of that, right?
Kristin: Yeah, of course. I’m sure. So, Ted and Ginger, [sighs] okay. And we talked a little about the other things, right? You can’t wear color, you’ve got to go home early. So they have a winter brunch now instead of, I imagine, the winter formal.
Jenny: Right. Don’t you think it’s weird that students aren’t allowed to drive, especially when we see Cordelia leave school- we think school ends at
2:45, or 2:15 or something when you’re in high school. The sun is, like, already starting to go down, and then it’s dark, like, ten minutes later while she’s walking home.
Kristin: Right, I think it’s probably rooted in having control of where they are, and so if they have to get on a bus, then you sort of know where they are. Whereas, you know, you know a teenager in a car..
Jenny : Whew!
Kristin: What are they gonna do? I’ll tell you what I was gonna do: not go to school.
Jenny: Yeah. sure. Of course.
Kristin: I mean, that’s what I was going to. And then there’s a memorial, a weekly, monthly memorial?
Jenny: Monthly memorial. And also she’s like, "Willow and Xander are like, they suck, right?" And everyone’s like, "They’re dead, Cordelia."
Kristin: They’re dead. I do like that all the death and mayhem has not affected the Cordettes in the least.
Jenny: [laughs] No, they are still going strong!
Kristin: Cordetting strong. So Cordelia is faced with the harsh reality of a Buffyless universe. And she’s not quite there yet. She’s starting to panic.
Jenny: She’s like, this isn’t exactly what I was expecting.
Kristin: Xander and Willow being dead is troubling, but then she’s walking home...
Jenny: And she runs into Xander.
Kristin: She sure does, and she’s pissed because she’s like, "you were
supposed to be dead", and the first thing she sees is Willow and XanderJenny: Canoodling!
Kristin: They’re obviously canoodling, they’re obviously still together.
Jenny: Canoodling, that’s first base, right?
Kristin: [laughing] Canoodling is first base, yes.
Jenny: [laughing] Thank you.
Kristin: I want you to know that the text I sent to Gaby about the bases
said… I’ll read you my text to Gaby: "Important question for our podcast:
are these still the bases? First: kissing. Second: boobing. Third:
finger-banging. Fourth: doin’ it." SoJenny: Wow. [laughing]
Kristin: I was pretty proud of second base being boobing, and I just wanted everyone to give me credit where credit was due.
Jenny: Great, great.
Kristin: So, here we have Xander and Willow, and what are they, Jenny, what are they?!
Jenny: They’re vampires!
Kristin: They are fucking vampires! X  ander’s a vampire, he makes a good vampire.
Jenny: I think he makes a better vampire than a human.
Kristin: I agree. And do you know who makes a fucking great vampire?!
Jenny: Well, that would be Willow, I would say.
Kristin: Willow Rosenberg! Ho-ly shit!
NOTES: [Vamp Willow jingle; drums & electric guitar] Here come Willow, she’s a vampire Willow, And she ain’t got time for you, Here come Willow, she’s a ‘bored now’ Willow, Wearing leather, makin puppy stew.
Kristin: Ho-ly shit, it’s another Willow jingle.
Jenny: Willow has many layers.
Kristin: Willow has many layers, and vampire Willow,well, ya know, I think we all have a lot of feelings about her. As a matter of fact, speaking of Vampire Willow and feelings about Vampire Willow, shall we go to Kate Leth?
NOTES: [Fashion Watch Intro jingle plays] It’s time for our friend Kate, To give you the Buffy fashion update!
Kate: Welcome back to Buffy Fashion Watch, where all of my fashion wishes have been granted! This episode has so much to give, and the real question is, are we worthy? We have Cordelia in some of her best outfits of the season, if not the entire show. I’m talking blood red faux-snakeskin cut into a pencil skirt slit up to the heavens with a matching jacket...miracles. I’m talking a baby blue silk wiggle dress and a crocheted cardigan - to school? Sure! I’m talking a sequined body con dress with crimped hair and eyeshadow to rival even Faith! Not only that, but we get both butch Buffy and vampire Willow! If this episode didn’t make me gay, I honestly don’t know what did. Where do I even start with Vampire Willow? Her jaw-dropping stockroom custom-made corseted top? Her flared burgundy Stevie Nicks sleeves? Her clamshell boob-emphasizers? Her leather pants and chock-a-block chunky platform boots, and the fact that even though it’s super hot and built to make her look like a total dominatrix, she still looks kind of a little bit uncomfortable, and maybe that’s even...cute? I don’t know. Not to mention the make-up and the fact that she tortures Angel with... matches...it’s just a lot . Of course we have to put up with Xander trying to be cool, taking up a role that could’ve so deliciously been given to anyone else, even Harmony. But I’ll take what I can get. Who could stop her but Butch Buffy? In her tank top, her gratuitous lip scar, her furiosa eye-liner, and her unfortunate cargo pants. Pair all this with the fact that there are no less than five s  weater sets,and/or sweaters draped over shoulders for warmth, cause, you know, winter in California, and this might be the best episode for fashion of Season 3. I know it’s a bold statement, we have a lot of Faith, we have a lot of pleather, we had Homecoming, but it’s so good! Everyone is bringing it. Willow even wears a shirt that says ‘Mermaids’! With overalls! And the opening segment...it is adorable beyond belief. On top of everything, and it is alot of everything, we get Anya! Anya! Who can tell Prada from Payless! She’s so perfect and I’m so excited! And I just can’t wait for everything that she is and brings to the show. Like are you kidding me, guys? This show. It’s very good, is the thing. The thing is that it's very good. Oh, and Giles wears a really cozy sweater. I just want to hug him. [sighs] Until next time, I’ll see you at the mall.
NOTES: [Fashion Watch end jingle plays] That was our friend Kate, She gave you the Buffy fashion update!
Jenny: Ok, so we’ll just be FedExing a spray bottle over to Kate’s house.
Kristin: Kate is really making an impression over the last few episodes.
Jenny: Brand strong!
Kristin: Brand is very strong.
Jenny: Also, Kate raises a great point about Cordelia’s leather...skirt... thing? We see that it’s slit very high, but I don’t think we ever get confirmation that it ever reconnects to itself. I think she might just have a sheet of leather, Duct Taped.
Kristin: [laughs] pinned at the top?
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah!
Kristin: Like Cordelia would ever use Duct Tape!
Jenny: You know what, you say that, but she’s a resourceful, practical, sensible, strong woman.
Kristin: That’s true, she did use a spatula.
Jenny: I bet she could, like, put in, like, anchors into drywall.
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: I think she knows how to do stuff.
Kristin: Talk about fanfiction!
Jenny: Uhhhh, nothing?
Kristin: Are you writing an erotic novel about Cordelia and anchors?
Jenny: Maybe! [laughs]
Kristin: [laughs] Okay, I want everyone to know that Gaby Dunn texted back while Kate Leth was giving her fashion watch in record time! I mean, I don’t even - you can time it yourselves, but it was quick. Gaby dunn
responded: ‘hahahaha, they haven’t changed, I don’t think. Also, that’s very straight, right? The bases?’ to which I responded, I don’t know, I mean you can certainly do plenty of boobing and banging regardless of gender, so I think that the bases can be queered.
Jenny: Well, I’ve been queering them for a good solid twenty years.
Kristin: Exactly! You heard it here, Gaby Dunn, famous millennial, reports in that according to her knowledge, the bases are the same. The bases are always gonna be the same!
Jenny: I’m sorry. I’m having a personal revelation that I’ve been making out with people for over twenty years. That’s crazy!
Kristin: [laughs] Wow. That’s really something!
Jenny: Okay, back to the show.
Kristin: Wow, okay. Back to the show. So, we get Vamp Willow in her cape… we’re here and it’s happening. And what does she say, Jenny?
Jenny: She says that she’s bored now, obviously.
Kristin: She says that she’s bored now, and can we get a little sound clip or that beautiful moment?
NOTES: [Clip from episode plays]
Willow: Bored now.
Kristin: I tell you who’s not bored now, it’s me, Kristin. Kate Leth is not bored now. Jenny Owen Youngs, definitely not bored. You know what my next note is? Alison Hannigan is really good at licking things.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: This is, like, a signature move of, not just Vamp Willow, we have
seenJenny: Oh yeah, remember when she put Xander’s ear in her mouth?
Kristin: Yes! She uses her tongue very vor-ver-vor...
Jenny: Voraciously?
Kristin: Voraciously! Thank you!
Jenny: This might be worth going back to the American Pie series to see if she uses her tongue there too.
Kristin: Yeah, she’s very good at using her tongue. She’s uses it many times in this episode, she’s used it before, she will probably use it again, folks! Request a minute for a jingle for Willow’s tongue, thank you very much.
Jenny: Yeah! [laughs] So, Xander and Willow run Cordelia down, but then! You think Cordelia’s about to get the bite, but a van- a mysterious van pulls up.
Kristin: It’s the white hats!
Jenny: It’s the white hats. In this reality, the white hats are Giles, Oz, Larry, and Nancy!
Kristin: Who’s Nancy?
Jenny: Well, I’m so glad that you asked!
Kristin: My notes are: White hats! Larry! Giles! Oz! Girl!
Jenny: Yeah. So Nancy, aka, girl, aka Mariah O’Brien- Mariah Waterfall O’Brien! Don’t go chasing Mariah Waterfall O’Brien.
Kristin: This is the actor’s name?
Jenny: That’s right. The character of Nancy is played by Mariah Waterfall O’Brien, possessor of perhaps the greatest name of all time.
Kristin: Perhaps, indeed.
Jenny: Who has been in a bunch of stuff, like Halloween the Curse of Michael Myers , and Gas, Food and Lodging. 
Kristin: What the hell is Gas, Food and Lodging?  
Jenny: Just her film debut.
Kristin: Did you just read that as though we were all supposed to know what Gas, Food and Lodging was?
Jenny: She was also married to Giovanni Ribisi, from 1997-2001...
Kristin: Ooh!
Jenny: And, my favorite thing about Mariah Waterfall O’Brien after her name, is that she appears on the cover of the 1992 Alice in Chains album, Dirt .
Kristin: Incredible. What a resume!
Jenny: Whew!
Kristin: Really, what a resume! Who would’ve ever thought? I bet you even Mariah Waterfall O’Brien didn’t know that here in 2017 we would be sitting in our basement studio...
Jenny: I’m confident she didn’t know.
Kristin: Talking of resume and calling her more than just ‘girl’, exclamation point.
Jenny: Yeah! Into it!
Kristin: So, right, so whatever there’s, like, this really quick moment in the library, and then we go to the Bronze, which I’ve written down is the Quagmire from San Junipero.
Jenny: Ahh, yes.
Kristin: I mean, if you’ve seen the Black Mirror episode San Junipero - if you haven’t seen the episode San Junipero of Black Mirror, get out of here!
Jenny: Shoo!
Kristin: Go, what are you doing? Go watch it right now. The podcast will be here. Jesus. But, you have, I’m confident you have, so you’ll remember the Quagmire as the, like, Dark Club. And they pulled a couple notes I think from the Bronze here. They always play metal in the Evil clubs!
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: They always play - dance metal is what Jenny called it?
Jenny: Well, it’s very fast, but it’s also very [beatboxing] jub jub jub, ntz, ntz, ntz.
Kristin: Yeah. The Bronze is hoppin! They’re doing great.
Jenny: They’re doing better, receipts are higher than ever.
Kristin: Yeah, their sales are wonderful, they’re I’m sure trafficking in many blood cocktails these days over at the Bronze. But my next note is in all caps Jenny, do you know what it is?
Jenny: I don’t.
Kristin: NOOOO! NOT FRUIT PUNCH MOUTH! [sings] Fruit punch mouth! Fruit punch mouth!
Jenny: [laughs] Kristin shrieked in horror as we were watching this, and
was like, the only thing worse than fruit punch mouthKristin: Every time I think I’m safe! Oh my God, do you want to know? Do you want me to tell everybody?
Jenny: Please.
Kristin: I’ll tell you. The only thing worse than Fruit Punch Mouth is fucking Fruit Punch Mouth picking up a tiny espresso mug with his long spindly nails and then pulling a tiny espresso mug up to his fucking fruit punch mouth and drinking out of it. I have never. This should have come with a trigger warning. I’m pissed!
Jenny: [laughs] This is the funniest thing that has happened to me in some time!
Kristin: [laughs]
Jenny: Thank you, Kristin.
Kristin: You’re welcome. Then I have Vamp Willow with a bunch of exclamation points ‘cause I guess I got excited all over again about Vamp Willow here.
Jenny: Yeah yeah yeah. She’s just like...
Kristin: She’s doing it.
Jenny: Swaying hither and thither.
Kristin: Gah, she’s really. I think her face changes for the first time.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: That’s what happens!
Jenny: That’s what we see.
Kristin: And she looks great! She looks great in Vamp Face.
Jenny: Willow and Xander both look really great in Vamp Face. I feel like they also look different - they look newer or something? They look more developed than I feel like we’ve seen.
Kristin: Right, well maybe the makeup team was like, let’s take it up a notch for these two.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: I like that the master, although I don’t want to give him anything except fucking a wipe for his mouth.
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: Just clean it! Clean it! But I will give him credit for this line where he says to them, either fucking figure this shit out or I’ll see you kissing daylight.
Jenny: Yeah, what a great...
Kristin: Kissing daylight. Maybe that’s the title of your next album Jenny.
Jenny: Kissing Daylight. Not kissing toast, for example.
Kristin: [laughs] So we go back to the library, Giles and Cordy, together again. And Cordelia is just keeping the title of badass in this episode. Because normally, I feel like, in a scene like this, Cordelia would be like, giles! And Giles would interrupt her.
Jenny: Right, right, but she’s like no, no, no shut up.
Kristin: She’s like, shut the fuck up.
Jenny: Buffy is supposed to be here, I have stumbled into this reality.
Kristin: And like, she dies just moments later which is what I think takes it to the next level of badass. She fucking got that shit out in the one minute she had.
Jenny: Yeah, which so rarely happens! And also is, like, how come you’re here and Buffy’s not, you’re her Watcher! And he’s like I’ve never been anybody’s Watcher, and is all flummoxed.
Kristin: I love that even in the reality where Giles isn’t Buffy’s Watcher he’s still the school librarian. Or is he just in Sunnydale?
Jenny: I think he is the librarian. I think he specifically sought the job of the school librarian so that he would be installed in Buffy’s life before she even got to the school.
Kristin: But then she never shows up.
Jenny: Yeah, but he just keeps his job.
Kristin: You know, the Watcher’s council, they need to get their act together!
Jenny: Yeah, they’re poor communicators.
Kristin: This is - so Jenny: Cordelia dies.
Kristin: Cordelia dies,and I have a lot of conflict. So let’s have a sexual tension award conversation.
Jenny: Is this it or just preliminary?
Kristin: This is it. We’re gonna discuss it now and we’re gonna decide who to give it to. Okay?
Jenny: Okay.
NOTES: [Sexual Tension Award jingle]
Kristin: So I mentioned already I always want to give a Sexual Tension nod to two strong women bashing on the patriarchy together.
Jenny: Yes. Yes.
Kristin: I think there’s always a certain energy created there that could perhaps lead to sexual activity.
Jenny: Uh huh. Wow.
Kristin: Thereby smashing the patriarchy even further! So I’m gonna throw Anya and Cordelia in the ring.
Jenny: Yeah, they can’t be that far away from that utility closet.
Kristin: [laughs] precisely. Willow would be hurt, I think. Speaking of Willow, there’s two throuples in this episode. But I have pause about awarding them. When the Angel-Spike Dru throuple was awarded their award they got the biggest award of all.
Jenny: They took it all.
Kristin: They took it all with their throupleness. But they were kind of all consenting, they were all into it, or so we imagined. And that’s where my question lies. Because are we awarding it on what we would like to imagine, or are we awarding it with what exists within the show? I think we’re awarding it with what we’d like to imagine.
Jenny: Okay. Okay.
Kristin: And in that vein, I posit the two throuples, also in competition, we have Cordy, Xander, and Willow, right?
Jenny: Yes. Yes.
Kristin: In this scene that we were just about to go into. And we also then later have Willow, Angel, and Xander. We’ve already seen sexual tension between Cordelia and Willow. We know it’s there, they’ve had the utility closet. We’ve already seen sexual tension between Xander and Angel at the hospital. Xander brought him flowers. So we know that pre-existing sexual tension exists between certain characters, and I’m just saying that if it were up to me in my mind, I would give it to Cordelia, Willow, and Xander. But because I don’t know if I’m positing something problematic, I’m opening it up to discussion, Jenny, I don’t know. Do you have any thoughts? Do you lean any direction?
Jenny: Well, there’s never been anyone more qualified to confidently lead a conversation about what is appropriate or not appropriate, what might be triggering or offensive. I’m definitely the person you want.
Kristin: You are! You’re very good at speaking of complicated issues.
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: Well, I’m struggling is what I’m saying. So should we err on the side of caution in these troubled times, and give it to a brilliant pair, Anya and Cordelia? Or should we say, you know what, this is about fantasy that exists outside...I don’t know! I’m going to, without any guidance from my co-host...
Jenny: Thank God!
Kristin: Sam, do you have any opinions on this? Sam’s just sleeping next to me. No one is here to help me. I’m going to award it to Anya and Cordelia! But I want everyone to know that in my heart of hearts, in my fantasy world, I would’ve given it to the throuple of Cordelia, Willow, and Xander.
Jenny: That's your fanfic.
Kristin: That’s my fanfic. So I will hold that. I will have that as mine. As my personal thing that I will take away.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: But you all, together as a group, we will come together and award it to Cordelia and Anya. Congratulations, Anya! First episode, right out the gates, grabbing a sexual tension award! Proud of you!
Jenny: Pretty exciting!
Kristin: Proud of you! You two, you go make out in that closet, and you keep on smashing the patriarchy. That’s all I’m gonna say, thank you very much.
Jenny: Speaking of sexual tension awards, as you may remember, last season our listener Emily made a sexual tension award bracket for Season 2 where we were all able to vote on our favorite sexual tension award winners across Season 2 and narrowed it all the way down to the Season 2 sexual tension award winner, which was of course, the vampire throuple of Drusilla, Spike, and Angel.
Kristin: Yes, yes it was. And we will of course be doing this for Season 3 once we get to the end of it. But we didn’t do that for Season 1, and we want to make sure that when we get to Season 7, we are able to have the biggest showdown for sexual tension in this series that has ever been recorded in history.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: So, now that we’re a few episodes in we’re gonna go back to Season 1 and we’re gonna do this bracket for Season 1. So for those of you who are just joining us, if you haven’t listened to Season 1, you just jump right in, what are you doing? First of all, you’ve gotta go back to the beginning and listen to all of them. But for those of you who were with us in Season 1, you will know you will remember,you will know that in this bracket that goes live today, we will have against each other things like Buffy and Cordelia, Cordelia and Cordelia.
Jenny: Win win win win win!
Kristin: Yeah, Cordelia and Cordelia, if we’re placing bets...Xander and Blaine?
Jenny: Hey, Teacher’s Pet! What’s up!
Kristin: [laughs] There’s so many! There’s a hyena fiveway!
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: Listen, we made a bit.ly. Emily has created this entire thing. All of the images, everything. They’re huge.
Jenny: They’re all hilarious. Thank you so much, Emily!
Kristin: They’re hilarious, thank you so, so much Emily, you are making this just such a joyous thing. So what you need to do to participate is go to bit.ly/bufferingsta. So the name of our podcast, buffering and then STA for Sexual Tension Awards, all lowercase. That’s gonna take you to the quiz, and you can fill it out. Now, there’s going to be many rounds of voting. So we suggest, if you’re not a patron, because patrons will get emails about this, but if you’re not a patron, follow us on Twitter, follow us on Instagram, follow us on Facebook. All of those places we will let you know when the next round of voting goes up. And by the time we get to our next episode, which is November 29th, we will crown the Sexual Tension Award winner for Season 1.
Jenny: I don’t know why we’re even bothering with all this ceremony, it’s clearly Cordelia squared.
Kristin: Hey don’t influence the voting, Jenny!
Jenny: [laughs] So now that we’ve got that out of the way, I just want to acknowledge that after Xander and Willow finish killing Cordelia they drop her to the floor and she makes exactly no noise.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: No noise, and then immediately after that Willow throws the key to the cage that Giles is locked in on the floor—
Kristin: Also no noise?
Jenny: And it loudly clatters.
Kristin: Ah, who’s the sound person on this episode?
Jenny: Well, what I’m wondering is, is Cordelia… so perfect—
Kristin: [laughs]
Jenny: That she somehow just fluttered to the floor like a beautiful dead feather?
Kristin: If a Cordelia falls in a library and no one is there to hear it?
Jenny: Right, but people were there and we were watching, this is flawed.
Kristin: I thought you were gonna say this is some kind of play on the fact that she’s not in that reality?
Jenny: Oh!
Kristin: I thought you were gonna be thinking big thoughts but you were just like "Is Cordelia a butterfly?"
Jenny: That’s my deal.
Kristin: Which is great. So, Giles is in the cage, Cordelia dies, Giles sees the amulet on Cordelia.
Jenny: Yes! Snags it off of her before Larry and Oz take her to the incinerator.
Kristin: I was glad that Giles took the necklace off so gently. I don’t know why but when he went for it, I thought he was just gonna like rip it off of her neck. I don’t know why that’s what...I think it’s just because the world is horrible here and I never know what to trust. We learn in the following phone call that Cleveland is also a Hellmouth!
Jenny: Well there’s a lot of demonic activity in Cleveland is what they say
Kristin: There’s a lot of demonic activity, right, sorry. I remember tweeting a while back that Laguardia airport was second in line for Hellmouth and a lot of you tweeted back like "What about Cleveland?" and I was confused cause I’ve only seen the series once. I forgot and now I’m reminded and this is why everyone…
Jenny: You just thought those people hated Cleveland?
Kristin: I was just like man everyone hates Cleveland!? What? No, ok. I get it.
Jenny: I love listening to Giles on the phone saying "Sunnydale is on a Hellmouth" and then indignantly responding "It is so!"
Kristin: [laughing] Right, right.
Jenny: So Willow’s reward for killing Cordelia is that she gets to play with the puppy and the puppy is Angel and that means it’s time for another installment—
Kristin: [makes sounds like a newscast] Do-doot-do-doot-do-doot
Jenny: — of Angel Combustion Watch! So, one thing Willow likes to do is throw lit matches onto Angel’s, oops, exposed chest.
Kristin: Yeah, you know what the most unbelievable thing about this whole episode is that Willow has to unbutton Angel’s shirt.
Jenny: Oh my god!
Kristin: You know what I mean? Let’s be real everyone.
Jenny: Well, he’s trying to protect himself.
Kristin: The only way to keep Angel’s shirt closed is to threaten him with matches to the chest.
Jenny: [laughs] So, what I’m getting from this whole tossing matches thing is maybe Angel isn’t as combustible as we thought? He’s not just a bundle of old dried out straw waiting to go up in flames as we had previously thought. Maybe it’s not so unsafe for him to be tossing logs onto a fire?
Kristin: Right, it seems like much fire would be needed.
Jenny: It kinda feels like there is some inconsistency going on in terms of vampires and fire.
Kristin: It’s also interesting to me that Angel— that we learn, I guess, that vampires scar from being burned.
Jenny: At least in this reality they do.
Kristin: Because then you’d think that vampires would have some scars from being burned.
Jenny: Yeah...
Kristin: The guy’s been around for hundreds of years.
Jenny: Yeeaah!
Kristin: I mean a couple of burn scars, even a cigarette ember, I mean I have dropped a cigarette ember on myself many a time, I’ll tell you what, and it hurts. So I’m sure that Spike would have—
Jenny: Oh my gosh yeah, he’s always smoking!
Kristin: Yeah he’s always got to light a cigarette.
Jenny: All right there’s a lot to think about here, ok ok.
Kristin: Moving along, the puppy. Ah I wish we could call Angel "the puppy" forever.
Jenny: Um we can... There’s nothing stopping us.
Kristin: That’s true. Willow’s gonna make you bark.
Jenny: Bleh.
Kristin: Ok? I know we already gave the award but my note says "oh no another throuple" and Xander’s quote "I just wanna watch."
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: Jenny’s response was precisely it, she made a face that was kinda into it and a noise that was kinda grossed out, it was like you were right on the edge.
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah.
Kristin: You were like "do I hate it or do I… I don’t know"
Jenny: It’s complicated!
Kristin: It is complicated.
Jenny: So, Giles finds the symbol of Anyanka in one of his books and realizes that he has more research to do. Giles still drives that car in this reality.
Kristin: Yes, I had that note too. Good to know in this reality the Citroen
NOTES: [trying to pronounce it]
Jenny: The thing we’ll never remember how to say.
Kristin: No it’s not even remember, we have conflicting people emailing us telling us to pronounce it all different ways. People are like "I’m from France and you say it…" I don’t know
Jenny: Right, right, right.
Kristin: I don’t know who to trust anymore.
Jenny: So we see vampires herding humans like cattle into a little wagon.
Kristin: I want to make a note that Giles says "I tried calling her" and I think we all know that Buffy specifically said that when the apocalypse comes—
Jenny: To beep her!
Kristin: [definitive] To beep her! Thank you!
Jenny: Obviously.
Kristin: She did not say "call me."
Jenny: Maybe there are no beepers in this reality.
Kristin: Oh please. You’re having too much fun with this reality, you’re just taking things out willy-nilly.
Jenny: Yeah, what’s really peculiar is I feel like Giles literally just called Cleveland and she’s already there.
Kristin: Time travel.
Jenny: Maybe there’s teleportation in this reality too.
Kristin: Buffy is rocking a sweet lip scar in this reality, a long braid, I like it.
Jenny: Looks great. Looks great!
Kristin: Yes it’s good, it’s all good. I thought we were getting another Giles knock out. I wrote "knock out number 13" and then I crossed it out, nope he didn’t.
Jenny: He was just knocked down.
Kristin: So ok then we’re in Giles apartment—
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: And this is another very important conversation. I have to believe in
a better world, is Giles stance. Buffy’s stance is: I have to live in this one. She has no belief in anything bigger or better.
Jenny: So dark.
Kristin: It’s so dark! In this reality Buffy is the opposite of Buffy. The whole reason that Buffy is able to overcome, to win, is because she does have belief in the fact that evil can be overcome, that she can fight, that she can win. Well, she believes that she can fight and she can win, but she believes that this is the best the world can be.
Jenny: And she also, what she has in reality A is family and friends and a watcher. She has a strong support group which is repeatedly highlighted as an anomaly in terms of slayers throughout history.
Kristin: Right and the reason that she cheats death, and we’ll get to this fight scene in the factory and talk about this a little bit more but it’s the reason that she escapes some moments that she would not have escaped otherwise.
Jenny: Right, just like at the beginning of the episode.
Kristin: Right, precisely, with uh what’s his face.
Jenny: Cthulhu.
Kristin: No, what’s my guy’s name?
Jenny: Zoidberg.
Kristin: Zoidberg! With Zoidberg. Also, a little note that happens in this scene between Giles and Buffy that I like is when Giles is like "Cordelia said she knew you," and Buffy says "probably just a big fan."
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: Which I love, in this reality the public knows about Buffy’s work.
Jenny: Oh, I thought she was just being sarcastic, but also, great.
Kristin: I liked the idea that there was a Buffy fan club but it was in the world for Buffy in Cleveland.
Jenny: Sure, into it.
Kristin: So Buffy goes to the factory, or the Bronze.
Jenny: Yeah when she finds out there’s a boss vamp in this town and nobody has killed him she’s like, I’ll just take care of that for you while I’m here because that’s all I’m good at.
Kristin: But she first locks eyes with Angel who says that—
Jenny: Oh my god, [low voice] "Buffy."
Kristin: —[imitating Angel] "Buffy was my destiny." Angel is dramatic in every reality far and wide. He knows no other way to be, and thank god somebody burned his chest so that his shirt could be oops, open in this scene. [laughs]
Jenny: Oh, Jesus!
Kristin: His shirt’s still fuckin unbuttoned. And Angel has waited for Buffy in this reality, he knows he’s supposed to help her, but she never came.
Jenny: Yeah, just like Giles working at the library.
Kristin: Right everybody’s waiting for the slayer that never arrived. And then we go to the factory.
Jenny: Ok, this is a huge problem for me.
Kristin: Why?
Jenny: Because the Master’s like "Welcome to a brave new world, industrialization, too long have we been bound to the routine of the predator, blah, blah, blah" and then it’s like let me show you how this works.
Kristin: Right, ok.
Jenny: So Wo-wo-whitney goes on the belt, slides down after being cattle prodded and immobilized and a bunch of really thick needles pop up into her body.
Kristin: Reminiscent of the glove of myhnegon, it’s like a body glove
Jenny: Yes, exactly. Enter her body wherever, definitely piercing organs. They go into her middle.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: But all they pull out is blood, somehow, and then she’s drained and then they have it like on tap or whatever. Now here’s the thing. Consider the hours of labor, the hours of engineering that go into designing and constructing this system, this process, right? And the upkeep and the labor of rounding people up and putting them on this thing and then having blood on tap. It doesn’t make any sense, it doesn’t yield more for the vampires and it robs them of fulfilling their natural instincts by hunting and killing, which for predators seems pretty important.
Kristin: So this is interesting Jenny because I bet you that hundreds of years ago there were two girls making a podcast at the start of the industrial revolution—
Jenny: Sure.
Kristin: And they were saying why in god’s name it is in our instincts to go out and pick fruit from the trees to get small foul and kill them with our hands or instruments that we’ve created and people wouldn’t be happy anymore if they just purchased boxes of food—
Jenny: Listen...
Kristin: I’m just saying I want to find that podcast, cause it exists.
Jenny: I get what you’re saying, sure, but this is definitely a long way around situation.
Kristin: But they don’t ignore it, it’s addressed directly by The Master he says there’s a whole fraction of vampires, you amongst their ranks who say this is fucked up, that death is our art.
Jenny: Hell yeah!
Kristin: That this is what we do. I am on that side too, I mean, I agree. I do like buying a prepackaged box of pasta, I will say, but I agree with the mentality that mass production is certainly tied into the death of a species.
Jenny: Weee!!
Kristin: [laughs] And that is probably not a good thing for vampires or humans alike. I also love the quote from The Master, he has a couple good moments here cause there’s another quote here where he says "humans with their plebeian minds have brought us a demonic concept."
Jenny: Jesus!
Kristin: It’s good, it’s really good. But yeah I agree with you I think this is no good. I also think that we’re seeing, you mentioned upkeep and hurting all the people, we’re seeing the very first time it’s happened so I don’t think they have all of the kinks worked out of the system.
Jenny: Right, fine. I’m just like, it’s not good.
Kristin: It’s not good, for sure.
Jenny: I’m not buying stock in this company.
Kristin: This episode really had a lot of 2017 in it for me, you know? Like 2017 has been a rough fucking year guys. We’re rolling around to 2018 and 2017 has been rough. It started about a year ago almost to the day with fucking some bullshit that brought us into a pile of stinking bullshit that we’re still sitting in and this episode highlights that. Cause we’re about to get into this scene, this beautiful, beautiful scene I think, that happens,right?
Jenny: Mhm.
Kristin: I know you’re upset about the mass production, so am I, I’m upset about it in the world and I’m upset about it in Sunnydale.
Jenny: Ok.
Kristin: I don’t like it for vampires or people, but then the thing that we touched on where Buffy has no belief in a better world. It’s sort of why this podcast is what it is right now, is because Buffy does have a belief in a better world, does have a belief that we can fight evil, and does believe that there’s more than just this. And so, watching this episode was very moving to me, this scene in particular, because they lay out what it could look like if we didn’t believe that there was something better. You know there’s still a fight, there’s still a battle happening here, but it’s so tragically sad. We see Oz kill Willow. We see Buffy kill Xander and we see The Master kill Buffy. Which is, to take us back, uh I have the chills. Which takes us back to the end of season one.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: Which is fucking where we were when the fucking election happened!
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: Wow guys, sorry I’m having a moment live.
Jenny: You really are.
Kristin: Just unfiltered realization happening right here, I’m gonna cry. At the end of season one she did die, just like she dies here, but she had her fucking friends and she had her community and she had everybody around her and they were like "you can do this, we’re here with you and we’re gonna stand with you, we’re gonna fight with you and fuck this shit" and they’re fighting and they’re winning.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: And in this reality she doesn’t have that. She doesn’t have her friends, she doesn’t rely on it. She doesn’t have the belief in it and she doesn’t survive.
Jenny: Mhm.
Kristin: So I’m just thankful for all of you. I’m thankful that we have each other. I’m thankful that we continue to help each other remember that we need to keep fighting and we need to keep believing in a better world. Thank you very much for listening. Shall we talk about the amulet?
Jenny: Let’s do that.
Kristin: Great.
Jenny: So while we’re seeing that beautiful scene that you were just describing, intercut with these little bits of Anya, Anyanka and Giles talking to each other. Anyanka has been summoned forth by Giles. She’s not used to being summoned by a man.
Kristin: She’s pissed.
Jenny: She’s not thrilled. She puts him in a chokehold. It’s really intense and he’s like "I’m not afraid of you and I need to get back to the better world" and she’s like "You’re a trusting fool, how do you know that world is any better than this one?"
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And he says "Because it has to be."
Kristin: Uh, Giles.
Both: "Because it has to be"
Kristin: Giles, always getting me.
Jenny: He smashes her amulet. He sure does.
Kristin: He smashes it and zap! They go back to the moment when Anya and Cordelia were standing in the courtyard, the moment that it all began at the school.
Jenny: And she’s all "done" but nothing happens and Cordelia’s like "mmm I wish this other thing" and she’s like "done!" and nothing happens and they keep going like that for a bit and then we pan over to Scoobies laughing while a 90s rock and roll band plays joyful sounding music. They try to make everybody feel better after 45 minutes of pure sadness.
Kristin: [laughs] Right. It works, we all got the reminder we needed, including Cordelia, that it’s very important that Buffy is in Sunnydale—
Jenny: Hell yes!
Kristin: And as many of the horrible things that do happen to the Scoobies as they fight nothing can even come close to as horrible as it would be without Buffy and without hope, which is what they all needed.
Jenny: Mhm.
Kristin: So, a great episode!
Jenny: Beautiful!
Kristin: Marti Noxon, David Greenwalt...
Jenny: Great job guys!
Kristin: Great job! Fantastic job!
Jenny: Finally the validation you’ve both been seeking from us.
Kristin: [laughs] Yes, I’m sure your careers feel more complete now that we have proved your work. Yes, just a really good episode. Very excited about Emma Caulfield’s work in this episode.
Jenny: Hooray Emma Caulfield!
Kristin: You know maybe we’ll see you again Emma. Maybe we’ll see you again Anya.
Jenny: Yes let it be so.
Kristin: Only time can tell.
Jenny: Hmm.
Kristin: Quite.
Jenny: So I’m Jenny Owen Youngs and when I’m not making this podcast with Kristin I’m making songs. You can hear some of them over at jennyowenyoungs.com/buffering and you can always give me a holler on twitter at @jennyowenyoungs
Kristin: You can and you can give me a holler on twitter @kristinnoeline [she spells it out]. You can also learn about the work that I do with LGBTQ communities, their families, over at kristinnoeline.com
Jenny: Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on twitter, facebook, and instagram at bufferingcast and you can always email us at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com
Kristin: Now accepting your scorned stories.
Jenny: [yells] Scorned!
Kristin: For future Anyanka watches on this very podcast. You can support our work by of course going over to iTunes and rating and reviewing our podcast—
Jenny: Please.
Kristin: That helps other people find us. You can also become a patron of ours bufferingthevampireslayer.com just click on patreon. We said at the top a lot of really fun things that are happening but just a reminder there is a holiday gift exchange happening for all of our patrons if you sign up by the 26th of November. Up at the top of the podcast we taught you how to do that, but you’ll also see it in the secret facebook group in the events page. We have a Buffy watch on December 9th for our patrons. We also have a mailbag episode that is pretty fun coming out next week. And of course tis the season, we have new merch. We have so much new merch in a new store. You go to bufferingthevampireslayer.com and click on shop you will see all your old favorites like the beautiful enamel pins designed by Kristine Thune, Kate Leth.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: You’ll see new things like a new smash the demon lizard patriarchy design for you goth kids out there. As well as the old smash the demon lizard patriarchy design which is beloved by so many now in a hoodie, in a t-shirt, in a baby onesie, in a tank top.
Jenny: Unstoppable!
Kristin: Just smashing the patriarchy all over the place not to mention the brand new bored meow t-shirt coinciding with this very special episode with Vamp Willow designed by Diana Kresge. We don’t know if we’re saying your last name right, Diana, we’re gonna email you tomorrow and find out. We’ll correct ourselves [gets high pitched] if we’re not doing it right. You can find all of that again bufferingthevampireslayer.com and shop.
Jenny: And hey listen, don’t forget to if you want to and exercise your right to vote in this democracy for the season one sexual tension award bracket that Emily created for us all to enjoy. You can find that by going to bit.ly/bufferingsta which stands for sexual tension award.
Kristin: It does. There will be many rounds of voting so you’ll probably also want to follow us on socials so that you not only get to participate in this first round but in all of the rounds until we crown a winner.
Jenny: Vote wisely.
Kristin: We will crown that winner on our next episode for the public which is November 29th when we come back with Amends and guess who is going to be our guest on that episode? Her name rhymes with Maby Dunns.
Jenny: What!?
Kristin: I know I didn’t. Her name rhymes with Laby Funns.
Jenny: Nice. I like that you’re consistently putting the s on the end for reasons no one can be certain of.
Kristin: Her name is Gaby Dunn. And she’s gonna be talking to us about Angel and all his glory in the episode that is Amends. We’re doing something special on Saturday. I’m not even gonna tell you what it is, it’s gonna become a special episode in December.
Jenny: Mhm.
Kristin: But we are making the special episode, traveling a couple hours even to a place, I don’t even know where it is. You won’t know until Saturday, we won’t know— just kidding we know where we’re going. But if you want to follow us, we’ll be putting some little clips of this special special trip up on our socials. Jenny told you how to follow @bufferingcast this Saturday the 18th we’ll be doing some really fun stuff I’m just saying. You’ll get the full episode in December, but if you want to see some behind the scenes fun stuff come and follow us.
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: Alright I think we’ve done all that we need to do here Jenny.
Jenny: God I hope so.
Kristin: Except for one thing.
Jenny: Til next time
Both: Awooo! [Jenny performing "The Wish" off the album "Songs from Season Three" by Buffering the Vampire Slayer] Up in the cemetery every evening I’ve been slaying some vampires in Cleveland Yeah shout if you feel like I’m feeling Just a vampire slayer in Cleveland Vampire slayer in Cleveland Never had much to believe in No friends and no family in Cleveland Just a whole lot of death I’ve been dealing To the vampires living in Cleveland Vampire slayer in Cleveland Oh oh When I go out on patrol Oh Ohoo I’m the loneliest girl in Ohio Rust belt hellmouth is seething In the slumbering dark heart of Cleveland All manner of evil come creeping To the vampire slayer in Cleveland Vampire slayer in Cleveland Oh oh My whole life’s one long patrol Oh Ohoo Every single night I have to go Check the Grog Shop and Great Lakes Brewing and Tommy’s on Coventry The Rock N Roll Hall of Fame and the shores of Lake Erie And don’t forget the labyrinth of Cleveland’s back alleys I never dream about leaving Cause my calling has bound me to Cleveland For the rest of the days that I’m breathing I’ll be a vampire slayer in Cleveland Vampire slayer in Cleveland (x5)