Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 5.12: Checkpoint
[CHIME]
Jenny: Hey everybody! Before we get started, just a couple quick announcements.
Kristin: Oh my gosh. So we told you last episode that we were coming to Chicago and that you'd get all the details in the intro of this episode. So here we are with them. Sunday, July 12th at 4 PM, we will be doing a live taping of Weight of the World, the penultimate episode of Season 5, at a wonderful venue called Sleeping Village. Tickets go on sale today, Wednesday, March 4th at 10 AM Central time for our Patrons. Patrons, you will receive a code that you can use that will work there at 10 AM. You'll get the code at 10 AM, so stand by. You'll get that, you can snag a ticket. And if you are not a Patron, don't you worry. Tickets will go on sale for you on Friday, March 6th. You can find information about the show on our website, bufferingthevampireslayer.com. Just click on Events. You can also use the bit.ly link, bit.ly/BuffySV, that's a capital B, a capital S and a capital V. Bit.ly/BuffySV, that'll take you right to the ticketing link. I just wanna let everyone know that we will be selling VIP tickets. You can do a meet and greet, a little sing along with us, you get a screen-printed poster designed by Kate Leth. And those VIP tickets will not be limited, so if you want that, it is highly advised that you get in on the pre-sale, because those can sell out. The general admission tickets will not, um, be able to sell out. We'll make sure to hold some of those for the public, in case they go quick. So we are so excited! Jenny, are you excited to go to Chicago?
Jenny: Very excited! The windy city!
Kristin: [laughs] Perhaps the wind will blow some of the weight of the world off of our shoulders.
Jenny: That would be nice, but then if you have bare shoulders, you'll need to cover them up. For that wind, you know?
Kristin: [laughs] Wow!
Jenny: And a great way to do that is by visiting our— [both laugh] is by visiting our online store, where you can currently get 20% off everything in the store through Friday with the code "CouncilIsTrash"! A lot of items like our hat and our mug and our final sale items, the Jeopardy tee, the 'Tis the Season crewneck, are running low! So snag them while they last. Patrons at the Slayer level and higher have a code for 30% off during the run of this sale. Heck yes.
Kristin: That was an incredible transition. Just so you all know, Jenny made it up on her—she just did it live, with the shoulders and the wind. It was—really good, really—[crosstalk]
Jenny: I'm an adult! I got ideas.
Kristin: [laughs] Um, wanted to let you know that our very first Patreon book club book has been chosen. If you are a Patron at the Watcher level or higher, you are part of our Slack book club. We're going to be reading a book together called Gideon the Ninth by Tamsin Muir. I'm not sure if I'm saying her name right, but I hope that I am. We're gonna be discussing Acts 1 and 2 of the book on Saturday, March 14th in our special Slack book club channel. Just a little tidbit on this book, the cover quote reads, "Lesbian necromancers explore a haunted Gothic palace in space. Decadent nobles vie to serve the deathless emperor! Skeletons!" So, you see—
Jenny: I can't.
Kristin: [laughing] I know. This is a very, very, very relevant-to-our-interests book choice. If you wanna be a part of our book club, just head on over to Patreon.com/bufferingcast. You can join at the Watcher level or higher. We're gonna have a very, very good time.
Jenny: Well! Speaking of having a good time, it's now time for the results of last episode's Sexual Tension Awards. These are the results for Triangle. Coming in fourth place… surprising no one but disappointing me, it's Xander, Riley and that sexy little crescent wrench, with 15% of the vote. Boo!
Kristin: [laughs] Hey, 15—I mean, listen. This vote is a good split. Everybody got a decent showing, I will say.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah. Okay. All things considered, I'm proud of you all for putting your feelings about Riley to the side. [Kristin laughs] And letting love in. In third place—now this is a shocker. I can't believe this didn't land on top. In third place, we've got Buffy, the nun and the wimple, with 24% of the vote. [Kristin laughs] And then getting into some very heated territory—
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: In second place, it's Giles and British books with 30% of the vote. And if you're doing the math along with me here… you'll know that the winner took it only by 1% of the vote. It's Spike and Xander, with—and I can't remember what this is a reference to—a "peanut slap."
Kristin: [laughing] They're—they're at the—
Jenny: Oh, right! Xander's eating the peanuts and—right, right, right, right.
Kristin: Yep, there you are.
Jenny: And Xander—Spike's trying to get in there. They've got 31% of the vote, which makes them the winners of this week's Sexual Tension Award. Congratulations, everyone.
Kristin: Yes, congratulations—
Jenny: Everyone's a winner in the Sexual Tension Awards.
Kristin: Congratulations. I'm so glad, Jenny, that I can put anything in parentheticals and you'll just read it, even if you don't know what it means.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: You were like, "okay, peanut slap!"
Jenny: I'm like Ron Burgundy over here. [both laugh]
Kristin: Um, okay. Moving from the peanut slap into a short story that I wrote when I was 12 years old—or, sorry, 11 years old, about to turn 12. Uh, we're gonna head right into Chapter 2 of this special podcast-ducken, Spooky News.
NOTES: [SPOOKY NEWS jingle plays] Spooky news!
Kristin: Okay, uh, if you missed Triangle, then you may have missed this. But I found a horror story that I wrote when I was 11 years old, and I'm reading it in a few segments over the course of these few episodes. So we left off with Tanya, a character in the story, about to begin the story of Old Man Seaver. The title of the story is The Death of Old Man Seaver. So, um, listen, if you need the back story, you gotta go back to two weeks ago to our episode with Trixie Mattel and hear the beginning. Jenny, are you ready for installment two?
Jenny: [laughing] I am ready.
Kristin: Okay. In the voice of Tanya. "Old Man Seaver was just a spooky old guy, or so we thought. He lived at the end of town, where you live now. He lived with his wife and another old man, of whom we thought might have been his cousin. Nobody paid much attention to them until…" Tanya stopped speaking and everyone glared at her and urged her to go on. "As I was saying, no one paid him much attention until…"
Jenny: [laughs] Utterly pointless pause. Go on.
Kristin: [laughs] I was 11! [clears throat]
Jenny: Uh-huh…
Kristin: "As I was saying, no one paid him much attention—"
Jenny: Oh wait, getting paid by the word at 11 years old or something? [both laugh]
Kristin: Ahem! "As I was saying, no one paid him much attention until we heard the screams." [Jenny laughs] My eyes were now about the size of tennis balls as I urged her to go on. "They were not very loud or attention-grabbing at first, but then they got louder and louder and even louder, until—WAAAA!" We all screamed and she started laughing. The tears were now rolling down her cheeks and she had clutched her stomach. Finally, she calmed down and continued on with the story. "Anyway—"
Jenny: Jesus.
Kristin: [laughs] "Anyway, the screams did get louder. In fact, they got so loud that someone had to call the police. The police investigated and they found out that every Friday night at midnight was when the screams took place." [Jenny laughs]
"So on one Friday night, at around 11:30 PM, they knocked on the door. Mr. Seaver answered it and invited the police to come in. So they went in and had a nice chat with Mr. Seaver and his cousin." Cousin—I should have put "cousin" in quotes. 'Cause we're not sure who this other man is that lives in the house. [both laugh] "The family said that they had never heard any screams at all, and then they
changed the subject. And as you know, time… did not stop. It was already 11:55 and they were still talking. At midnight on the dot, a faint scream was heard. It rose higher and higher until it reached a blood-curdling screech. The police were horrified as the scream rose even higher, but Mr. Seaver and his family acted as though nothing was happening. When the scream lowered into a faint moan, about twenty dead bodies fell from the top floor."
Jenny: Oh my god!
Kristin: [laughs] "Acting as policemen would, they rushed upstairs to see, well, to see nothing at all. Even though they had seen nothing, they heard a faint tune of what sounded like an innocent little girl singing—[laughs] [sings] 'Row, row, row your boat.'"
Jenny: Uh…
Kristin: "The words were completely different though. She had been singing, [sings, trying not to laugh] 'Kill, kill, kill the men who took my life away. Merrily, merrily, merrily, merrily take their lives today.'" So—
Jenny: Wow. I really don't know what to think.
Kristin: [laughs] That's been your second installment of the short story titled The Death of Old Man Seaver. [laughing] Tune in next episode to find out what happens! [both laugh]
NOTES: [SPOOKY NEWS jingle plays] Spooky news!
Jenny: Hey! For all of you Prom-goers and Prom-going-aspirants—[Kristin laughs] uh, just wanna let you know some very exciting updates. Brittany Ashley, Laura Zak and your goddess and ours, Kate Leth, will all be in attendance at this year's Prom! Along with other special guests we have yet to announce. If you have been sleeping on getting your Prom bids, now is the time. Head on over to bufferingthevampireslayer.com/prom for ticket links and details.
Kristin: [laughs] Beautiful. You sounded kinda like the Moviefone guy.
Jenny: I'm going for it.
Kristin: Very, very excited to have this whole crew. I also, like, don't wanna spoil too much, but I will say that Jenny has called for some choreographed dancing for some of her live music sets. So, it should be—
Jenny: [singsong] TBD! TBD!
Kristin: TBD! I'm sorry, but you can't—you can't even say the words "choreographed dancing" to me and not have it happen, so.
Jenny: Right, right, right.
Kristin: It's not TBD, it will b  e happening.
Jenny: Okay. Alright.
Kristin: [laughs] Um, okay. Something that we didn't say but that you may already know is that we are about to roll into Checkpoint with the specialest of all special guests, Ira Madison III—
Jenny: Amen.
Kristin: And it's the third time that he's appeared on the podcast, which seems like some kind of special Bingo.
Jenny: Ira Madison III, the third.
Kristin: [laughs] Alright, Jenny. If you have no more to say, neither do I and we can get on into this episode.
Jenny: Let's do it!
NOTES: [Buffering theme plays]
Jenny: Hello. Hello, hello, and welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast where we're watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, one at a time, spoiler-free. I'm Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: Ooh, Jenny Owen Youngs.
Jenny: That's right!
Kristin: I am Kristin Russo, and this week we're talking about a very important episode.
Jenny: [quietly] Oh my god.
Kristin: Season 5, Episode 12, Checkpoint. And we have, I think, the episode's biggest fan in the room with us. Hi, Ira.
Ira: Hi!
Kristin: [laughs] We Twitter-connected on this.
Ira: Yes, yes. And I'm back. [Jenny laughs]
Kristin: You are. You were here—the last time you were with us, I think, was Prom.
Ira: Yes. I skipped Season 4. [Jenny and Kristin laugh] Uh, not intentionally. I don't hate Season 4. I love it. [all laugh]
Kristin: If you had to pick from Season 4, do you have an episode that's like, your pick?
Ira: I do. Uh… I mean, I feel like everyone's always like, Hush. You know?
Jenny: It is good.
Kristin: Oh my god, right?
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: Hush is in Season 4—
Ira: Hush is in Season 4.
Kristin: That feels like a thousand years ago, yeah.
Ira: Yes, but probably like—I would pick something like, This Year's Girl? Or Who Are You?
Jenny: Mm! Mmm!
Kristin: Ooh, yeah.
Ira: Yeah. Or like, Fear Itself. Like, Season 4 has some really good…
Kristin: Nice.
Ira: Some good stuff.
Jenny: If you were in a boat with all seven seasons of Buffy and the boat was taking on water and you had to get rid of one season—
Ira: [immediately] Seven. [everyone laughs]
Jenny: Cool, so you know.
Kristin: Without hesitation!
Jenny: So prepared. So certain.
Kristin: "Did I stutter? Seven! "
Ira: Uh, the one I say the most would probably shock you. I think it's changed so much—
Kristin: Really?
Ira: Since I did your show first. Yeah.
Kristin: What is your—what season would you save the most?
Ira: Uh, Six.
Kristin: [gasps] Six!
Ira: Six is my favorite season.
Jenny: Six has so much going on. We can't talk about any of it, but—
Kristin: Well, listen. You both can have this discussion. Clearly, I cannot. I've only—like, Season 6 and 7 are a mystery to me. I've only seen them once and it was like—
Ira: Oh, wow.
Kristin: Six years ago. Yeah. So…
Ira: Yeah. It has slowly become my favorite season of the show, yeah.
Kristin: [whispers] Fuck.
Ira: Yeah, I think it's aged very well.
Jenny: Yes, yes.
Kristin: Okay, well you can be on—you can just do the whole season with us, then.
NOTES: [everyone laughs]
Jenny: You're not busy, right?
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: Yeah, you don't have anything going on. Actually—
Ira: Well, this studio's close to my apartment. [everyone laughs]
Kristin: Trixie, who was on the last episode, said the same thing. She was like, I walk—I could basically walk here.
Jenny: Yeah. I think we found the podcasting, like, nexus of power.
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah, totally. Totally.
Ira: Yeah, so—also, so many people that, like—like, Trixie, and that—just happen to live in this area, weirdly.
Kristin: Oh!
Ira: A lot of people live in this area who you'd be shocked about. [Kristin laughs]
Jenny: Apparently, Trixie sees Juliet Landau at the gym all the time.
Ira: Yes.
Kristin: Oh, yes!
Ira: I see Juliet—like, Juliet Landau's at the gym. I was like—Wilson Cruz—
Kristin: Oh my god!
Ira: Goes to my gym. [Kristin and Jenny laugh] Melina Matsoukas, directory of Queen & Slim, is in this area too.
Kristin: Wow. A hot bed.
Ira: We're not telling you the area because, stalker.
Jenny: It's none of your business!
Kristin: Yeah. It's a mystery. You'll never know that gym! [laughs]
Ira: Yes, but—yeah.
Kristin: Incredible. Well, so—
Ira: Andrew Rannells, when he's in town, here—yeah. Yeah.
Kristin: This is—
Ira: A journey.
Kristin: I mean, we are in Los Angeles. So…
Ira: Yes. But this is a central area of LA.
Kristin: Yeah. I definitely never went to the gym with Juliet Landau when I lived here. [Ira laughs]
Jenny: Nor I.
Kristin: That's 'cause we were up in the mountains of Altadena. [laughter] So Ira, before we finish our intro, which—
Jenny: Sure, sure.
Kristin: We're just, you know—we're very comfortable with you—
Jenny: Casual.
Kristin: So we're going off-script. But I said, before we were on air, so to speak, that you could talk about all the things you do, because there are so many—I mean, obviously we know—
Ira: Too much!
Kristin: There's so much! Well, I mean, you're the judge of if it's too much. [everyone laughs] We want all the content—
Ira: It is too much! [laughter] I need a nap!
Kristin: [laughs] So tell us what you're working on.
Ira: Well, there's Keep It!, obviously, the podcast. And I am now working on a new Netflix show called Q Force. It's by my wonderful friend, Gabe Liedman. He's producing it with Mike Schur and Sean Hayes is the voice.
Kristin: Wow.
Ira: An animated gay spy show.
Jenny: Um, okay!
Kristin: Fuck yes!
Ira: Yes, yes.
Kristin: When does it—when is it born into the world?
Ira: Next Pride.
Kristin: Oh, wow.
Jenny: Wow.
Ira: Yeah, so 2021. It's gonna be animated, written, but…
Kristin: So exciting!
Ira: It's gonna be great! Hopefully a lot of fun actors in it and, you know, there's like—it's supposed to be a whole fun spectrum. So you know, obviously Sean Hayes is like, the cis white guy. But you know, there's like, a trans character, non-binary, lesbians—like, there's—everyone's in it.
Kristin: And it's an animated show, but it's an animated show for adults or is it—
Ira: Netflix, yeah, for adults. Yeah.
Kristin: It's for adults. [sighs] Fantastic.
Ira: Yeah, it's from the company that makes Big Mouth, so.
Kristin: Amazing. Wow.
Ira: Yeah. We're going for broke.
Kristin: Oh, I'm so excited.
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: 2021 seems like it's a minute away, but really, it's not. It's like, we'll all take a—
Ira: It's not. So much to go through. [everyone laughs]
Kristin: Jesus Christ, yeah, actually. Maybe 2021 is farther away than we think it is. [laughter]
Ira: [laughing] Too far!
Kristin: Ahh! [laughs] Um, so to finish our intro, Jenny—
Jenny: Sure, sure, sure, sure.
Kristin: You can talk about who wrote this.
Jenny: Well! Checkpoint was written by Douglas Petrie and Jane Espenson—
Ira: Mm-hmm.
Jenny: And directed by Nick Marck!
Kristin: Oh, Nick Marck. There he is again.
Jenny: Your old friend, Nick Marck. And originally aired on January 23rd, 2001.
Kristin: Whoa!
Ira: Whoa.
Kristin: What's today? We're taping this on January—
Jenny: Is it… the 20th?
Ira: Second.
Kristin: The 22nd.
Jenny: Whoa!
Ira: Whoa.
Jenny: Time.
Kristin: Wha—hu—[makes eerie siren noise]
Ira: Okay!
Kristin: You won't hear it for a while, but just so you know—
Ira: Yeah. It's been almost 20 years to the day.
Kristin: To the day!
Ira: Wow.
Kristin: That's pretty fucking cool.
Ira: What timing!
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: Right? [Ira laughs] So this is the one, in case you don't know, according to IMDB, where the Watchers' Council—womp, womp—uh, "womp-womp" not included in the description on IMDB—[laughter] travels to Sunnydale to review Buffy's skills as a Slayer. Meanwhile, Glory puts her search for the Key into high gear.
Ira: Mm-hmm.
Kristin: I'm skipping ahead, I know we go sequential here. But something that I thought was funny about this story line is that Glory is like, "um, can you ask Ben where the Slayer lives?" And I'm like… listen, Glory. [Ira laughs] Like, I—he's like—
Jenny: She just had a phone book, like, a couple episodes ago!
Kristin: Exactly. Like, I just feel like you didn't have to at-task Ben and your minions with that, probably.
Ira: This used to be one of my favorite seasons. And sort of revisiting it, I love the concept of Glory as this ditsy, you know, like, Valley girl-ish whatever. But… [laughing] when you watch this season, when it gets towards like, episode 19, 20, you're like… Glory, pick up the pace. [laughter]
Kristin: Yeah.
Ira: "Ben, can you find out where the Slayer is?" How—how—do your job.
Kristin: Right, just do something. She's like—
Ira: Everyone else manage—every other demon and monster manages to find the Slayer at her home and attack her. Or in the streets randomly—
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: Seriously!
Ira: And Glory can't?
Kristin: Ask anyone in Sunnydale.
Ira: Yes.
Kristin: They will tell you where Buffy Summers lives. [laughter] They know.
Ira: Go find a vampire, ask them! [laughter]
Kristin: Seriously!
Ira: The laziness.
Kristin: You're a god! I can say it now.
Ira: It's been 12 episodes. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Ira: What are you doing?
Kristin: I mean, seriously. She went to the Magic Box and bought some shit.
Ira: Yes. I guess seven episodes for her.
Kristin: That's true, that's true.
Ira: 'Cause she showed up in 5.
Kristin: Yeah. We were talking, actually, in Triangle about the fact that Glory is such a memorable piece of Season 5 that you think she's in more episodes. And then like, it's like, oh, there's actually a whole other thing happening in this season.
Ira: Yeah.
Jenny: Mm-hmm.
Kristin: Where we don't see her as often. Anyway! I started us in the middle. We should start at the beginning.
Ira: Mm-hmm.
Jenny: You know when you're—ugh, you're cleaning off your living room 'cause it's such a mess and you weren't expecting your friends to come over. And then you find… a huge bulky green military sweater. [Kristin laughs] He's been gone for, like, weeks at this point?
Kristin: Yeah.
Ira: Yeah.
Jenny: And this is just, what, behind a couch cushion or something? And then Xander is like, "oh, that must have belonged to Riley. You all remember Riley."
Ira: Right. 'Cause Into the Woods aired 2000, right?
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Mm-hmm.
Ira: Like, it was the episode before the break.
Kristin: Yeah. Oh, yeah.
Ira: Yeah. 'Cause I remember—distinctly remember Triangle being—when it finally aired, it was like, it was after a long winter break of no Buffy episodes. And I think it was a longer break, 'cause I—I forget which date Into the Woods aired. But it felt like pretty sort of early in December-ish.
Kristin: Yeah.
Ira: So this is to say, long-windedly, far too long for a sweater— [Jenny laughs] that you did not notice could just be sitting there!
Kristin: A giant s  weater!
Ira: Yeah. [laughs]
Jenny: It's not like it blends in with, like, Joyce's floral curtains and couches. Like, it's thick, chunky. It has shoulder pads. It's not—
Kristin: But what's funny is that, like, from a writer's standpoint—you can weigh in on this—you know, they have to have something left behind by Riley. And so what's hilarious is that, like, Riley has no other indicative—[laughs]
Jenny: Right, it's like, that or what, a gun?
Kristin: What—yeah.
Ira: Nothing.
Kristin: Like, a gun or a sweater or a—right.
Ira: Other questions. We fully know Buffy—is she still in school at this point? She's in—yeah, 'cause she—
Kristin: She is, it's just sort of come back into the—
Ira: Yeah, she's still in school. Where's she living? Is she at home?
Kristin: She's at home.
Jenny: She moved back home. That's—
Ira: Okay.
Jenny: That happens early in Season 5, once Joyce gets sick.
Ira: That's right. Okay, yes, she gets sick—
Jenny: Slash, she finds out Dawn is the Key.
Ira: Okay.
Jenny: She's like, I need to be home, close to my mother, close to my sister.
Kristin: Protect the Key and—yeah.
Ira: I'm just thinking about Riley taking off his sweater in Joyce's living room. Inappropriate. [Kristin and Jenny laugh]
Jenny: And now we all are!
Ira: He has a home.
Kristin: He does!
Ira: Yeah.
Jenny: Hmm.
Kristin: Yeah.
Ira: Anyway.
Kristin: So yeah. So they're there, uh, apart from us to realize that Buffy's still kind of, sort of misses Riley. But like, does she?
Ira: She doesn't think about him the rest of the episode. At all.
Kristin: Yeah, I don't think she really…
Ira: [laughs] She doesn't miss him!
Kristin: I don't think she cares too much. But they're all meeting so that Giles can be like, hey, by the way, what I found out is that the entire Watchers' Council is gonna roll up. Like, didn't give him an itinerary. He's like, they might be here tomorrow, they could be here today. Not sure.
Ira: That's what they do.
Kristin: Yeah. Fucking creeps.
Ira: They're rude.
Kristin: Oh, they're such creeps. Um, Xander makes a good point. "Can't they just call us on the phone?"
Ira: [laughs] Yeah.
Kristin: Fucking couldn't they?
Jenny: No! The Council is, like, the most dramatic entity in the entire series.
Kristin: Right.
Ira: If we're being honest, like… when Buffy pegs them later, you know, like—[Jenny laughs] they obviously want, like, the tea. [Jenny and Kristin laugh] I mean…
Kristin: Jenny—what a great Jenny laugh.
Ira: Metaphorically— [laughs] and also colloquially. [laughter]
Kristin: Yeah, yeah.
Ira: [laughing] They're living over in London—not even in London, you know? Outside of London. You know they all, like, jumped at the chance to hop on the plane on the Watchers' Council budget to go to LA.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: Seriously!
Jenny: Who's funding the Watchers' Council?!
Kristin: Honestly. It's old money. It's definitely old money.
Ira: Yeah. Big business.
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah.
Jenny: Mmm. Or is it like, mystic money? Are they just like… creating gold?
Kristin: God, that would make the fucking patriarchal bullshit of Buffy not getting paid even worse, if they're just mystically making money and still not giving her any!
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: So yeah. Buffy's pissed. The Council's on their way. Uh, Dawn is constantly eavesdropping. What's your opinion on Dawn, actually? We haven't seen you since there's been a Dawn.
Ira: Uh…
Jenny: We also haven't seen you since there's been a Riley. While we're collecting opinions.
Kristin: I kinda got the opinion on Riley. I feel like Ira lands on my side.
Ira: [simultaneously] Who? [Jenny laughs]
Kristin: Yeah.
Ira: Who?!
Kristin: Trixie was hard on Jenny's side and I'm glad to have you here—
Ira: Who is Ri—who?! [laughter] Uh… [laughs]
Kristin: Thank you.
Ira: Um… [everyone laughs] Um. I like Dawn.
Kristin: Yeah.
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: Did you like Dawn when you watched the series the first time?
Ira: I did. Actually.
Kristin: That's good. That's cool.
Ira: Yeah, I did. Yeah. I think I've always liked Dawn.
Kristin: I like Dawn too. But I watched it as an adult person, and from what we've gathered, a lot of people didn't like Dawn as teenagers or younger people watching the show, 'cause she was kind of written to be—
Ira: Yeah. A brat.
Jenny: Mm-hmm.
Kristin: Yeah. Okay, so. Meanwhile, at Glory's house. She's feeding on a postman. She's sweat—very sweaty, for Glory. And a question I have about this scene actually, is why did they wait so—like, she's like, "you don't have to cut it so close next time before you bring me my—"
Jenny: Yeah, what else do these minions have to do?
Kristin: They don't doing [sic] anything!
Ira: They have nothing to do.
Jenny: They have literally one purpose.
Kristin: And—
Jenny: Maybe they're just running out of—you know when you—when you over-fish an ocean?
Kristin: Uh-huh?
Jenny: And then you're just kinda out of fish?
Kristin: But they're just—need humans.
Jenny: But—right, but maybe they've taken… the minds of all of the, sort of like, people who naturally come in the zone of this abandoned hotel?
Kristin: Oh.
Jenny: That they're occupying.
Kristin: I just feel like everyone in the Glory camp could do a little bit better of a job administratively. You know?
Ira: Yes.
Kristin: Like, Glory can find the Slayer, the minions can bring her something to eat.
Ira: Mm-hmm.
Jenny: Yeah. Organization could be improved. Also, the guy who's playing this mailman that they bring to feed her. His name is Peter Husmann. I looked him up because he looked so familiar to me.
Kristin: Oh.
Jenny: I guess he just has a familiar-to-me face, but… [Kristin and Ira laugh] in his very short list of acting credits, I want you to know that he was in something titled "Faith Happens."
Kristin: Oh!
Jenny: Which felt very relevant!
Kristin: You know, you've been really pushing Faith on us these last few episodes.
Jenny: I miss her!
Kristin: I mean, like, I'm always here for it, but this—you know.
Ira: Love her.
Kristin: Yeah. So Giles is, like, in the Magic Box. And he's talking to this junior-level witch in the shop.
Jenny: Oh, yes.
Kristin: Like, this nameless character who's a witch.
Jenny: You can tell she's a witch by her tiny, dyed-black, like, baby bangs?
Kristin: [simultaneously] Bangs? Yeah, exactly. And then Quentin and what I wrote down in my notes, his army. Quentin and his army arrive.
Ira: Quentettes. [Jenny laughs]
Kristin: Ooh! We will not be making an enamel pin for Quentettes. [laughter] But yeah, they're just assholes right from the jump.
Jenny: Okay, they are assholes. But also… the point that they raise about maybe Giles keeping dangerous stuff off the main floor of the shop could have prevented him selling Glory the ingredients that she needed to make the huge rubber snake a few episodes ago.
Ira: Mm-hmm.
Kristin: I mean, fine…
Ira: Fair. Fair.
Jenny: Just a thought. Just a thought. Safety first.
Ira: Also, the—one of them's very cute. The guy. With the…
Kristin: Which one?
Ira: Dark hair.
Kristin: Oh, the guy that—not the guy that gets the sword thrown at—wait.
Ira: No. I think so.
Jenny: Nigel?
Kristin: The guy behind the—
Jenny: He has, like, a double-breasted suit.
Ira: The guy behind the—yes.
Kristin: Yeah, yeah.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: I love the la—so—
Ira: And the lady with the glasses who's very severe.
Jenny: Lydia.
Ira: Lydia, yeah.
Kristin: Oh, her name's Lydia? The Spike fan girl?
Ira: Yeah.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Oh my god, I fucking love that scene so much. I cannot wait to get to it, but also, there's another woman. And it—I'm like, is she just Quentin's assistant? Because—
Jenny: Oh yeah, she makes tea.
Kristin: She makes tea.
Jenny: She has no lines.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Yeah.
Ira: Assistant. Makes sense.
Kristin: To which I again say, they're paying for Quentin to have a fucking assistant. They're not paying the Slayer, and certainly none of them have assistants.
Ira: Yeah.
Jenny: Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm!
Kristin: Fighting this—fighting this evil.
Ira: But they do pay Watchers.
Kristin: Yeah, they're pay—they paid Giles.
Ira: Because when they talk about back pay, yeah.
Jenny: Yeah, it's a bent system.
Kristin: Yeah. I guess we should just play—I mean, there's so many places in this episode where we can put the Patriarchy jingle, but we might as well just pop it in here at the top.
NOTES: [THE PATRIARCHY jingle plays] The patriarchy! [thunder clap, evil laughter]
Kristin: Great. So, um, yeah. I don't know. The Council is like, we're gonna shut down your fucking store.
Jenny: Anya crushing it, blending in with all the people who have been humans their whole lives.
Ira: [laughs] I love her.
Jenny: "Born to both a mother and a father!"
Kristin: Oh my god. When she—later, when she's like, "I was a child, which means I was, like, smaller and shorter than I am now." [laughter]
Jenny: Uh-huh, uh-huh.
Kristin: Very good, Anya.
Jenny: She has a firm grasp on the basics.
Kristin: Um, yeah. I mean, my main note in this whole scene is "what the fuck, what the fuck, what the fuck, what the fuck."
Ira: They're rude.
Kristin: They're rude. They're also just—
Ira: But always.
Kristin: Yeah, and it's like… I guess I—like, I get—
Ira: We haven't seen them since… Helpless, right?
Kristin: Yeah.
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: Jenny, what was that violent motion you made?
Jenny: Well, it's like, Quentin is all like, "well, we have this info on Glory, but we won't hand it over until we're convinced that you're prepared for it." And it's like, or wha—like, who else are you gonna give it to?
Kristin: That's my fucking question!
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: What is—I mean, I guess that is—
Ira: Faith? [everyone laughs] Come on.
Kristin: Right. Their plan is very… shabby. Which, I mean, I guess is how the whole episode kind of comes to an end, but—
Jenny: Do you know—what is the name of the book or methodology or whatever—the guy who, like, made a lot of money trying to get other guys to talk to women in such a way as to make them feel bad?
Ira: Oh, the—
Jenny: Like, the king of negging. The guy who invented it? The Game, the Master, the something?
Kristin: Oh. Um…
Ira: Something artist. Pickup artist!
Jenny: Yes! The Watchers' Council is basically the pickup artist, like, negging Buffy this whole episode.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Trying to get her to want their approval, when actually, as we later find out, it's—[makes a swishing sound]
Kristin: Yeah. Uh, and then, as if we didn't have enough patriarchal bullshit in this episode, we go to class, to your question of is she back in school
Ira: Yes.
Kristin: She's kind of—college has, like—it's like they just remembered that Buffy should maybe still be in school.
Jenny: Yeah… she, like, missed a lot of classes while Joyce was going through it.
Kristin: Yeah.
Ira: And someone enjoyed, you know, doing this Rasputin joke. That's the only reason this scene's there. [laughter]
Jenny: Uh-huh. And who are these fucking—how is this professor getting those kind of laughs from college-aged students for this, like, C-minus at best material?
Kristin: I agree.
Jenny: Like, "Speculation 101."
Ira: And maybe 'cause college is bigger than high school, but I feel like… don't some of these kids on campus sort of know that, like…
Jenny: Buffy's a Vampire Slayer? [laughs]
Kristin: [simultaneously] Buffy's the Slayer?
Ira: Yeah, or at least, like, saving them from random things on campus. For the past two years.
Kristin: Right. Just like they knew in high school. Yeah.
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: I mean, they might not know that their former psych professor was, like, a mastermind running an Initiative and building a weird—
Ira: Yeah, what was with the oversight from that? You know, that Professor Walsh is doing all this at the school?
Kristin: Just—yeah. Building a tinfoil lab.
Ira: What'd the school ever do about it? [Jenny and Kristin laugh] Anyway. I wonder.
Jenny: And oh, I'm just thinking about how many, like, below-ground on-college-campus, like, huge cavernous rooms they were working in, the Initiative. And like, how did they even… do any of that without…
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: The school's knowledge.
Kristin: Okay, so, fucking Buffy's had enough. She goes to the fucking cemetery. She's whaling on this vamp.
Jenny: And she can't even… get… what she needs.
Ira: Mm. And then Spike shows up.
Kristin: Yeah. The men in this episode, coming from every angle!
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: The professor, the Council, Spike.
Ira: I am a Spike fan though.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: I mean, look at him go.
Ira: Yeah. I was shipping Buffy/Spike hard, like, by this point.
Kristin: Yeah. Which is kind of what they—I mean, that's what they're—
Ira: Yeah. I mean, "out for a walk, bitch"? Like, he's stalking her. [Jenny laughs]
Kristin: Yeah…
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: And that's essentially what we have—we have, like, another version of "out for a walk, bitch" in this scene.
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: Where he's just like—you know he's in love with her. And the only way that he can seem to express it is by just saying the meanest shit he can think of.
Ira: Yeah, it's 'cause he's a demon.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Or! I mean—
Kristin: Lest we forget.
Jenny: It's not that far away from, like, the way a lot of people express stuff like this, like, when they're in, like, I don't know, fifth grade? Also.
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: Yeah.
Ira: 'Cause also he was, like, a nerd.
Jenny: Oh, he was.
Ira: Fool for Love. You know, like.
Kristin: Aww.
Jenny: Mm-hmm.
Ira: Now he's just, like, angry at women.
Jenny: Mm-hmm.
Kristin: Instead of writing his horrible poetry.
Ira: Was Spike an incel? [everyone laughs] You have to wonder. I'm just saying, was he Joker? [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah, I mean, nothing—
Kristin: Right?
Jenny: Nothing was going on for him with Cecily.
Ira: Yeah!
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: He appeared to have absolutely no game while he was still living.
Kristin: Yeah.
Ira: Yeah. Then he became a vampire. Yeah. And then immediately got, like, Dru.
Jenny: Which… nice
Ira: Drove her crazy to get her.
Kristin: Oh, yeah!
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: Interesting.
Ira: He's the Joker. Anyway.
Kristin: [laughing] Oh, shit. It's getting dark quick. [laughter] Um…
Ira: Todd Phillips as Spike. [everyone laughs] I'd see that movie.
Kristin: So… whatever. Spike's… Spike to Buffy. And then we go to this weird—whatever, we don't even need to talk about the scene where Jinx goes to the—is it Jinx that goes to the hospital?
Jenny: Yeah, that's Jinx. He goes to visit Ben at work, he's like, "where does the Slayer live?"
Ira: I'm glad you remember their names. [everyone laughs] I was just like, minions.
Kristin: Yeah.
Ira: He talks to Ben.
Kristin: The only thing that I like about that little scene is that Ben is like, "don't touch me, you're crusty."
Ira: Yeah. What's weird is knowing back then in high school, I was like, oh, Ben's very cute. But now, like, I know his potential. 'Cause he is so hot now.
Kristin: Like, Charlie Weber?
Ira: Yes.
Kristin: Yeah.
Ira: Like, on How to Get Away with Murder, he's like, hot .
Jenny: Ohhh.
Ira: Short haircut, tattoos. Even more muscle. Like, it was all there.
Kristin: Yeah. Did you know—when you were watching Buffy for the first time, did you know that you were attracted to Ben?
Ira: Yes.
Kristin: So you were like, fully aware.
Ira: Yeah. Yeah.
Kristin: You weren't like some of us, looking at women—looking at women and being like, "I don't know wh—I just feel—like maybe I wanna be her best friend."
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: You knew. [laughs]
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: Okay, so. Back to the Magic Box we go.
Ira: Mm-hmm.
Kristin: So Buffy, like, opens the fucking door, which I love the sound effect. [Jenny laughs] This is so small and random, but I just love that every time the Magic Box door opens, that fucking bell—
Ira: The bell, yeah.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Ira: It's great.
Kristin: It is. It's like a nice little thing that has, I think, finally gotten in to my brain.
Jenny: Yeah. And she thinks, oh fuck. Perhaps if I just back out of this door very slowly, no one will notice I was ever here.
Kristin: Yeah. It's a good Sarah Michelle Gellar acting moment.
NOTES: [Clip from episode plays] [bell chimes and door opens]
Buffy: Bad day. Bad, bad, bad day—
Quentin: Miss Summers! Good to see you again.
Kristin: Then this is where the Council is essentially like, you know, we're gonna send you through all these fucking te—it's like a replay of Helpless but worse.
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: They're gonna make her do all these tests and—
Ira: But you get your powers this time.
Kristin: Right, yeah. We won't, like, drug you.
Ira: And lock you in a house. [laughs]
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: Jesus Chr—that's—so what I was gonna say earlier is, like, I understand that they need this knowledge that the Council has. But I just feel like so much has been forgotten by almost everyone except for Buffy?
Ira: Mm-hmm.
Kristin: You know, like, even Giles, it's like—I just want him to be—I mean, I'm happy that what it gives us is that Buffy is the one who tells them to go fuck themselves.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: But I—you know, I'm just surprised, I think, that Giles and the rest of the crew, minus like Tara, are not a little bit more…
Jenny: I think they're—
Ira: She fired the Council and everything in—
Kristin: Yeah!
Jenny: But like, Giles is horny for the books.
Ira: Mm-hmm.
Jenny: And Dawn—
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Is the thing, I think, that—it's the thing that changes everything. Like, it's what makes Buffy and Giles more desperate.
Ira: Of course.
Kristin: Yeah. That's true, that's true.
Jenny: You know. And she's—it's not like… it's not like they're finding anything out about this woman. Buffy's just like, getting trounced over and over and over again.
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah.
Jenny: What are you gonna do?
Kristin: And—[laughs] right. And, you know, to your point on desperation, it is Dawn but it's also Giles, because then that's what they're saying in this scene. Like, they essentially use Giles as the weapon against Buffy by saying—
Jenny: Ugh! How fucking dare they!
Kristin: That they're gonna deport him. And Giles is like, yeah, they can full—like, they're shitty at a bunch of stuff. They're not good at this, they're not good at that, but like, this is one thing that their threats are not idle. They will—
Ira: Yeah.
Jenny: But how about that, like, hot dad moment of like, "she's not your bloody instrument"?
Kristin: Yeah.
Ira: Yes. Yes.
Kristin: It's incredible—it's incredible to me the way that they—I mean, I know that they're assholes and I know that they are whatever. But it's just incredible to me that they—
Ira: They tried to kill Faith.
Jenny: Ugh!
Kristin: They tried to kill fucking Faith. And that they say—like, the Coun—they say in this scene, "the Council fights evil and the Slayer is the instrument by which we fight. The Council remains, the Slayers change." Like, they are so in ownership of how shitty they are.
Ira: Mm-hmm.
Kristin: That they—you know? They're not the kind of shitty people who are like, pretending—
Ira: No.
Kristin: That they care. They're literally just like—
Ira: This is your job.
Kristin: Yeah, you're disposable.
Jenny: And we're the institution.
Kristin: And we're the institution, so you can suck it. Anyway. Jinx goes back to fucking Glory. And he's all bruised up.
Ira: [quietly] You know, Kendra would have passed the test. Anyway.
Jenny: Mm!
Kristin: Kendra would have passed which test? All the tests.
Ira: The Watchers' Council test.
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Ira: And they wouldn't have had to test her in the first place.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Ira: She was a councilwoman. [laughter] That's why she died.
Kristin: Aw, Kendra.
Ira: That's why she died.
Kristin: But she did, she followed all the rules.
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: She followed all the rules, Faith broke all the rules, and Buffy's in the middle.
Ira: Yeah. We don't have to get into that, though. I still think—I'm still angry about her.
Kristin: About… Kendra's death?
Ira: Yes, because it was bad.
Kristin: Yeah.
Ira: It was a badly—it was a badly staged death.
Jenny: Mm-hmm.
Kristin: Dru hypnoti—
Ira: The hypnotizing and the—it was very dumb.
Kristin: Yeah.
Ira: Anyway.
Jenny: Agree. [Ira and Kristin laugh]
Kristin: You're like, I'm mad—
Ira: She's the Slayer, come on.
Kristin: I don't want to talk about it—yeah. Yeah.
Ira: And then Dru never was able to do that to anyone else. Later. [Kristin laughs]
Jenny: Yeah, never seen Drusilla hypnotize another living soul.
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: Yeah, that's a fucking solid point. Mm-hmm.
Ira: Yeah.
Jenny: Hmm.
Kristin: Ugh. So we're at an important point in the episode, because we see Glory's walk-in closet. [Jenny laughs] It's just beautiful.
Jenny: Okay!
Kristin: And I thought it might be a good segue…
Jenny: Ah!
Kristin: To our Fashion Watch from Kate Leth.
Jenny: Yes, of course.
NOTES: [Fashion Watch intro theme plays] It's time for our friend Kate To give you the Buffy fashion update!
Kate: Welcome back, everyone, to Buffy Fashion Watch, in an episode I might call The Tweed Invasion. Although there is actually a lot less tweed than I would have hoped for. Um, this is a pretty fun episode for fashion, but what it actually is is a great episode for hair. Willow's got her, um, her curls happening, which is a thing that regularly occurs as her sort of short, choppy college cut is growing out throughout this season. And it is so cute! She's got her little collar in the first scene, her little choker, I guess. I shouldn't say that, but oops. And you know, her outfits throughout the episode are actually really great. Willow's fashion is kind of coming into its own here. She is dressing a little less eccentrically, a little more BoHo, pagan, lesbian type girlfriend. And also, Tara gets a really great hair moment in the opening scene, which almost inspired me to do my entire Fashion Watch about lip gloss. Because everyone's lips are so! Shiny! But, as it turns out, lip gloss is not actually that interesting and you know, as a person who used to professionally do makeup, I thought there would be more to it. But there's really not, so everyone's lips just look great. Giles is very much rocking his recently-divorced dad look in the beginning, with his kind of, uh—would you say a weathered leather jacket? Anyway. He's, uh… [laughs] he's doing alright. And controversial take for this one? Strange every single time I say it, but Xander looks good in this episode. He's doing this little collared shirt under a crew neck sweater thing, which… I have yet to see a person this looks bad on. It's probably just, you know, my thing for professors. But it's really cute and it's really working for him. Other than that, in this episode, I really do love the Watcher who is Spike's fan girl. Her outfit is not incredibly distinctive, there are not a lot of elements of note other than the glasses she gets to push up her nose [laughs] when she's geeking out. But I love her, so I just wanted to say that I do. And then Buffy, who pretty much gets, you know, standard Buffy outfits throughout this episode, in sort of the very end gets what I can only describe as her Paddington Bear coat? Uh, it's not quite fuzzy but it is—no, it's fuzzy. But it's… dense. [laughs] It looks very warm, very warm for California. But I love it? And I love every time she wears an enormously puffy or otherwise, um, stuffed-animal-esque coat. And her hoops! Her signature hoops are really making an appearance in this episode and I love it. So yeah, overall, I mean, this is a really great episode. It's one I've always enjoyed, any time Buffy faces off against the Watchers' Council is a lot of fun. Any time Buffy really owns her power, her strength, is one that I really love. So, you know. Not a huge one, nobody's wearing tie-dye pants. Anya does wear a pretty small halter top, which I almost didn't want to comment on 'cause I figured I'd sound like a creep, but here we are. Just a really solid episode, really solid outfits for everyone. I wish Xander wore that sweater and shirt for the entire show. I would be fine with that. And I do know that it shows up again, so um, good on him. Good on him. Until next time… I'll see you at the mall.
NOTES: [Fashion Watch outro theme plays] That was our friend Kate She gave you the Buffy fashion update!
Jenny: Thank you, Kate. Thank you, Kate! Now and always. [Kristin laughs]
Ira: Thank you so much, Kate.
Kristin: Love you, Kate!
Ira: Loved being there for that segment. [Kristin laughs] It's great.
NOTES: [AD BREAK]
Jenny: Um. [Ira laughs] Love all this Ben talk from Glory about how he could seduce Buffy and "bang the Key out of her."
Kristin: Ugh. "Bang the Key out of her." [laughs]
Jenny: And when… and when Jinx is like, "well, he is quite attractive," she's like, "well, of course he's attractive!" Which seems interesting. I wonder what it could mean. I wonder where this could be going.
Kristin: Okay, I—
Ira: 'Cause he's a man cast on a television show. [Jenny and Kristin laugh]
Kristin: Um, well, they do seem to be connected. You know?
Jenny: In some way.
Ira: And more interesting than Riley already. [Jenny laughs derisively]
Kristin: I mean, everybody is.
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: I'm sorry! [Jenny laughs] You got your Trixie defense. I'm gonna jump on the Ira train.
Jenny: No, no, no…
Ira: I miss, like, Graham.
Kristin: Gr—oh, Graham! I was like, who's Graham? Right.
Ira: He was better than Riley. [Jenny laughs]
Kristin: Yeah.
Ira: He was in this season! In Out of my Mind.
Kristin: Yeah, he was just—yeah!
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: Graham came back in his black beret just a couple episodes ago.
Ira: Yeah.
Jenny: Riley got in the helicopter with him.
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: I actually disagree though. I think Graham is just as boring as Riley.
Ira: Mm.
Kristin: I would—
Ira: Forrest was the interesting one.
Kristin: Exactly, I would—
Jenny: Oh, yeah. Forrest.
Ira: Poor Forrest.
Kristin: Poor Forrest.
Ira: Just—wow.
Jenny: Justice for Forrest.
Kristin: But he did have—I mean, as much as poor Forrest, he did have the most interesting, uh, arc of the three.
Jenny: Of the three Initiative boys, he definitely had the most going on.
Kristin: He got to be a—like, a mon—a Frankenstein monster.
Ira: Yeah. What? This show killing interesting black characters? Who knew?
Jenny: Hmm.
Kristin: [sarcastically] Yeah, it doesn't seem like Sunnydale…
Ira: Who knew? [laughs]
Kristin: At all…
Ira: [laughing] Who. Knew?
Kristin: Yeah, it's weird. This show is actually like kind of a standalone in that. It's just very—
Jenny: Isolated incident.
Kristin: Yeah.
Ira: There's a different world where Kendra lived, Forrest lived, and they spun off.
Kristin: Right!
Jenny: Aw, yeah.
Kristin: Oh my god, the other different world.
Ira: Yeah, the better Buffy and Riley.
Jenny: The better time.
Kristin: Yeah. [laughs, then sighs]
Ira: Anyway.
Kristin: But instead. Here we are.
Ira: Yeah. Here we are.
Kristin: It's sort of like Giles and, um, Glory give Buffy the seedlings of what she needs to get to the end of this episode. And this is the first conversation where she's—
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: She's sitting with Giles and Giles is like, "this is about power."
Ira: Mm-hmm.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: Like, he gives her that piece.
Ira: Yes.
Jenny: And then he cleans his glasses so hard that he pops a lens or something?
Kristin: He breaks his glasses, which this doesn't—I know you don't care, Ira, but just a few episodes ago, I said, doesn't Giles ever break his glasses?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: He's always battling with them—
Jenny: He's always getting punched.
Kristin: And I thought it was interesting that he never breaks them in battle, but here, where he's fucking so stressed out by the Council and their power—
Ira: I don't do that anymore. I've got Lasik since I've seen you. [Kristin gasps]
Jenny: Oooh! How do you feel?
Ira: Great.
Jenny: What is it like on the other side?
Kristin: Yeah? It's wonderful?
Ira: Wonderful. Yeah.
Jenny: Did they do the—
Kristin: I'm so scared of the lasers on my eyes…
Ira: I love it.
Jenny: Did they—is there a snipping or like a—
Ira: Just lasers.
Jenny: It's just lasers.
Kristin: What do you mean, a snipping?
Jenny: They used to do, like a cigar cutter, like, in the early days of Lasik—
Kristin: Stop it! Why are you saying these horrible things?
Jenny: I'm sorry! 'Cause they're true!
Kristin: A cigar cutter?
Ira: Something. They used tools.
Jenny: Not a literal cigar cutter, but something similar to that to create a slice—
Kristin: Everyone listening is like, kind of upset. But what you don't know is that both Ira and Jenny are making motions of the instruments as they're talking!
Jenny: That you'll never have to see.
Ira: [laughs] I just had a laser in my eye, it was 30 seconds each eye, it was great.
Kristin: And so now you're 20/20.
Ira: Yeah.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: 20/20 in 2020!
Ira: Yes.
Kristin: Wow, look at that.
Ira: Yes.
Kristin: You didn't like my dad joke? [laughs]
Jenny: I mean…
Ira: Wow.
Kristin: That's what I'm here for!
Jenny: [laughing] You're go—no, you're going hard on the 2020 dad jokes.
Kristin: I'm sorry, it's my role.
Ira: Speaking of dad. Yeah, glasses. Broke his glasses. Poor Giles.
Kristin: Speaking of dad. Daddy broke his glasses. And, um… yeah, and Buffy's also doubting herself. She's worried that, like, she has the physical stuff on lock, but that once they start looking into her decision-making, they're gonna be not so thrilled.
Ira: Mm-hmm.
Kristin: 'Cause she knows who she is. And—
Jenny: She's not the bookiest of the bunch. But the whole Council—it's again like, what is their other option? They are all, like, sideline book people. They are all on the headset, in the room. They're like, not the astronauts. They're like the people launching the shuttle.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: What are they gonna do without her?
Kristin: Oh, one thing I wanna say before we move forward into [laughing] Anya Christina Emanuella Jenkins and her answers—
Jenny: Mm-hmm, yeah, mm-hmm.
Kristin: Is that the scene with Giles and Buffy ends with Buffy saying—
Jenny: Aw!
Kristin: "They picked the perfect thing. I can't lose you."
Ira: Aww.
Jenny: [high-pitched] Ahhh!
Kristin: So like, we'll just play Giles' jingle, it's fine.
NOTES: [GILES jingle plays] Giles! Hot dad! When you were younger you were real bad But now you're older, you got glasses That help you watch over us! Thank you, Giles!
Jenny: Cut to this, like, turtleneck motherfucker…
Kristin: Was that the one you like? No—
Ira: Yes.
Kristin: The turtleneck?
Ira: Oh, not the white one—
Kristin: No, you like the double—
Ira: The one who's like, foreign.
Jenny: Nigel.
Kristin: Nigel.
Jenny: Their names are: Turtleneck, Nigel and Lydia. [Kristin laughs]
Ira: Yes, Nigel is the cute one.
Kristin: Nigel, okay. So Turtleneck is questioning everybody.
Ira: Mm-hmm.
Kristin: And Anya's doing a great job at making back story for herself?
Ira: Yes.
Kristin: [laughing] She's born on the 4th of July…
NOTES: [Clip from episode plays]
Anya: Anya Christina Emanuella Jenkins, 20 years old. Born on the 4th of July, and don't think there weren't jokes about that my whole life, mister, 'cause there were! "Who's our little patriot?" they'd say, when I was younger, and therefore smaller and shorter than I am now.
Jenny: Where is she drawing… this material from? Like, what is the source of this context—
Ira: Just thinking about American things. [Jenny laughs]
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah, yeah.
Jenny: Hmm.
Kristin: She's like, "how can I be the most American I could possibly be? I will put my birthday on the 4th of July."
Jenny: Right, right, right.
Kristin: Um, and then Willow and Tara's comedy line is, of course, that he asks them what their relationship is. He means to the Slayer.
Ira: Yes.
Kristin: But they tell us—
NOTES: [Clip from episode plays]
Tara: O-our relationship?
Willow: We're friends.
Tara: Good friends.
Willow: Girlfriends, actually.
Tara: Yes, we're girlfriends.
Willow: We're in love. W-we're… lovers. Lesbian, gay-type lovers.
Kristin: Ooh, Ira! Should I ask—should I drag Ira into this battleground of, uh, is Willow gay or is Willow bisexual? You might have some thoughts. 'Cause we're in—so we're in the new territory of Willow being like, "I'm gay." And last episode, Triangle, she was like, there's no way I would ever threaten your relationship with Xander, because…
Ira: Hello, gay.
Kristin: Hello, gay.
Ira: Yes.
Kristin: And so our listeners have been, you know, talking about this for some time. Of like, what do you guys think? Uh, and so—I mean, I can tell you what we think, but—
Ira: No. She loved Oz, so she's bi.
Kristin: Right? She's bi?
Ira: This is 2000—it was 2001.
Kristin: Right, so it's like—
Ira: TV didn't know what bi was.
Jenny: Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Kristin: Yeah. Right, the—so that's what—yeah…
Ira: And she wouldn't have either.
Kristin: Ira's on my team.
Ira: She wouldn't have either. You know?
Kristin: Right. She—exactly. Like, I didn't—
Ira: Until, like—unless she fell in love with a guy again.
Kristin: Totally.
Ira: She wouldn't know.
Kristin: Wow, actually, now that you say that, that's a really good point. Because that was my jour—that was my personal journey, was that, like, basically, I was like, "I am a lesbian."
Ira: Mm-hmm.
Kristin: I was also afraid that I would, like, meet a guy and have a crush on a guy, because then—
Jenny: You would have to tell your mom…
Kristin: That I wasn't gay.
Ira: Mm-hmm.
Kristin: Like, there was not—and not that I didn't know what bisexual was. But you know, it was not… it wasn't as accessible.
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: And you were erased from both sides—
Ira: Yes.
Kristin: Of communities. So. Anyway, I'm glad to know that you're on my team for Riley.
Ira: Yeah. [Jenny laughs]
Kristin: And that you're on my team for Willow is—
Ira: Yes, of course.
Kristin: Like, that we would believe—like, we would take Willow at her word. But Willow is not writing Willow's lines. [laughs]
Ira: Yes.
Jenny: Right, right, right.
Kristin: A writer's room in 2001. Okay.
Jenny: I like watching Xander tell Turtleneck about how he combined his essence with Buffy while they're discussing his special skills.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And Anya's like, "I'm told it was all very professional." Which like— [Ira laughs] fair.
Kristin: Nobody—nobody talked to any of them about how they should answer these questions.
Ira: No. Not at all.
Jenny: Well, I don't think anybody…
Ira: No prep.
Jenny: Oh, you mean like, the people interviewing them?
Kristin: Well, no. Like, Giles and Buffy.
Ira: No prep.
Kristin: Like, nobody was like, hey—hey. Maybe, like, do say this and don't say that. They just kind of like, let 'em loose.
Jenny: Everybody just seems like they have no idea what's gonna go on, including Giles and Buffy.
Kristin: Right. Uh, [laughing] "what level are you at?"
Ira: Five.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Five! Five, obviously.
Kristin: Five. It's a good move from Tara.
Ira: Yes.
Kristin: I like it.
Ira: This was a question on a Buffy trivia I did, like, two years ago?
Kristin: Ooh. And you got it?
Ira: I got it right. I did get it right. [Jenny laughs]
Kristin: Five… okay, so then… uh, we go to Spike's where we get one of my favorite scenes in the episode. Um…
Jenny: Yeah, this is great.
Kristin: Because it's so special.
Ira: Lydia?
Kristin: Lydia.
Ira: Yes. Just enamored with Spike, 'cause obviously, you know, he's a famous vampire.
Jenny: Yeah, #1 Spike fan.
Kristin: And she wrote her fucking thesis on him.
Jenny: He killed two Slayers!
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And he's still alive.
Kristin: Totally.
Ira: So, Watchers' Council is also a school?
Jenny: [laughs] Or…
Kristin: [laughs] Actually, interesting point.
Ira: Thes—you have to—people are writing theses? [laughter] Watcher Academy.
Kristin: Do you think that she just wrote it for fun?
Ira: Probably.
Kristin: Like, she didn't have to write a thesis, but she was like, "ooh, the books."
Ira: [simultaneously] Probably, like Wesley. You know Wesley.
Jenny: Uh-huh, uh-huh.
Kristin: Um, yeah. So she—what I love too is that, not only is she enamored with Spike, but Spike's like, main drug is, like, having somebody enamored with him.
Jenny: Uh-huh!
Kristin: So he's all turned on because she's turned on.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, and then he starts, like, going off about how, like, Buffy… pays him—
Ira: We knew that from Restless. That he loves fans.
Kristin: Oh.
Jenny: Oh, yes! Of course!
Ira: The black and white photoshoot.
Kristin: [simultaneously] That's his black and white photoshoot episode? Yes.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: Uh-huh. And I think a little James Marsters is, uh, in there. James Marsters is very good with fans, in a similar way that Spike was. I think. You know?
Jenny: Uh. I feel like James Marsters is really incredible at, like, making you feel like, special and heard when you're talking to him.
Kristin: Totally. But he's also good at, like, changing poses all the time. [laughter]
Ira: Yes.
Kristin: So…
Jenny: Okay, so Spike starts going in on, like, oh, Buffy pays me to help. Buffy will let me, like, drink from dying victims.
Ira: Yes.
Kristin: Which isn't even true.
Jenny: Which is definitely not true. He's just, like, being a little shit. And then he's like, "poor little twig can't keep a man." [Kristin laughs] Uh-huh!
Ira: He's rude.
Jenny: [laughing] So rude!
Kristin: But then—but that's when—that kind of inspires this woman to be like, wait. Do you want her to cry on your shoulder?
Jenny: Yeah, is that what you want? I would think you'd wanna kill her.
Ira: Wouldn't it be funny if the Council had been back at any point in—well, they sort of were, when they tried to get Faith—when the Initiative was there? 'Cause I can imagine them trying to question, like—questioning, like, Riley. The government would probably be like, no.
Kristin: Ooh, yeah, and they—
Jenny: Oh yeah, that would be like, a brick wall.
Kristin: That would be—that would be some patriarchy on patriarchy right there.
NOTES: [laughs]
Ira: Yes.
Kristin: Um, so Buffy doesn't know how to speak Japanese. Uh, she doesn't understand what's going on in the next scene. They want her to protect the dummy.
Ira: Yeah. But also, like, do any of the other Slayers know how to do that?
Kristin: I—there—
Ira: Did Kendra?
Kristin: That's the—well. Kendra probably did.
Jenny: If anybody did, it was Kendra.
Ira: True.
Kristin: Kendra was—yeah. Kendra definitely read all the books.
Ira: Yes.
Kristin: Including the manual that nobody ever saw. [laughs]
Ira: Yeah.
Jenny: But like, everything that the Council was about, interrogation-wise, just like, reinforces the idea that like, their priorities are bureaucratic and nonsensical and don't actually serve, like, winning and protecting.
Kristin: Well, yeah. And Giles gives us that line, where like, Quentin is like, what did you—like, how did you even train her? What did you train her in? And he's like, I trained her to win. Like, it's—she doesn't need to know how to say "bow" in Japanese to fucking save the world.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Like, I understand, you know, that there are these other things happening, but like, this is not what is the most important… thing.
Ira: Period. [laughs]
Kristin: [laughs] I just looked at my note—my last note in this scene is, in all caps, "What a cunt, Quentin." [laughs] I got real mad.
Ira: He's always been that.
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah.
Jenny: Yeah, he's a little shit.
Kristin: Um, but she kills the dummy.
Ira: Yes.
Jenny: Yeah, whoops.
Kristin: Yeah.
Ira: "Sorry guys, gotta do this my way!" [everyone laughs] Buffy, never do it your way. [edit here]
Kristin: [singing] "She'll do it her way!" Yeah. She, um—which is not, like...I mean, this is not very customary of Buffy to fucking—she's never killed any—
Jenny: We've never seen her kill somebody she was trying to protect, right?
Kristin: Ever. Ever.
Ira: Yes.
Jenny: Um. Okay, so Buffy goes home. Buffy's having a rough one.
Kristin: Who's there?
Jenny: Buffy goes home. She calls for her mom, she turns the corner into the living room. And for a second, because she's wearing, like, a dr—like, a nice dress and she has big curls just like Joyce. Glory, like, almost kind of registers as Joyce, just for like, a fraction of a second. And then like—
Kristin: That's a—that's a fan fiction second for you. [laughs]
Jenny: Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.
Kristin: I'm sorry—
Ira: Yeah, not for me, but sure. Okay. [laughter]
Kristin: Yeah, me either! But I'm into where you're going.
Jenny: Okay. If you agree with me and you think that, like, they have just some on-paper similar attributes, and like, maybe the first millisecond your eyes are registering, like, [Kristin laughs] that hair in that room, you think "Joyce"—please write in to Kristin—
Kristin: Wow! Rude.
Jenny: At bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com to back me up. Thank you.
Ira: And if you agree with me, don't write in to [inaudible, laughter]
Kristin: We'll take all of the emails we don't get as agreeing with me and Ira.
Ira: Yes.
Jenny: [laughs] What the fuck?
Ira: Yes. [laughs]
Kristin: [laughs] I mean, mostly the thing that really makes you know that it's not Joyce is that back on that dress.
Ira: Yes.
Jenny: Oh, sure, sure, sure, sure.
Kristin: Joyce does not wear a back like that. But Glory does.
Ira: Yes. Only with Giles. [Jenny and Kristin laugh]
Jenny: Hell yeah!
Kristin: Yeah!
Ira: So Glory is there, and this is my favorite scene in the episode.
Kristin: Right.
Ira: It's great. Glory feels like a real villain here.
Jenny: Mm-hmm!
Ira: It's—there's tension. Love this scene. Love when Dawn comes in, love when she—
Kristin: Ugh, she's like, "Kid."
Ira: Love when Dawn uses her brattiness to get out of the situation.
Kristin: Yeah.
Ira: See, I like Dawn, she's smart.
Kristin: Do—oh, so that's interesting, actually.
Jenny: Oh! I read that as, like, Dawn being like, "oh, well I've been eavesdropping and nobody will tell me what's going on." So when she hears Glory say like—or when she hears Buffy say, "oh, she doesn't know anything," Dawn is like—
Kristin: Pissy.
Jenny: "I know"—like, mad about it. Like, trying to—
Kristin: Right.
Ira: I think—there's a slight—I mean, I've watched this episode so many times.
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah, I trust you.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Yeah, no, I definitely trust you.
Ira: There's like a slight hesitation before Dawn does that. And I'm very positive it's Dawn realizing the situation is dangerous and getting out of it.
Kristin: Fuck yeah.
Jenny: Yeah. Honestly, how does Dawn not realize that the situation is dangerous before that, while she's slowly w  alking into the room, looking at this woman brandish a fireplace poker—
Kristin: I think that she does and she, like—
Jenny: Oh, she wants to help?
Kristin: I think she wants to help.
Jenny: She just had an incredible run, hitting the Queller demon with the—
Ira: Yeah. Yeah.
Kristin: Let's not talk about the Queller demon, but yes, yes.
Jenny: The coat rack a couple episodes ago.
Ira: Ugh.
Kristin: Fuck the Queller demon. How do you feel about the Queller demon, Ira?
Ira: That… CGI? Anyway. [laughter] Just running across the—anyway.
Kristin: The ceiling!
Ira: The ceiling.
Kristin: Suctioning.
Jenny: Ugh!
Kristin: Blech!
Ira: Truly one of the worst episodes. [Kristin and Jenny laugh] Ever.
Kristin: So, yeah. I mean, this is an incredible scene. And it's really—I mean, this is, like, the Glory episode. The episode where we learn that she's not a demon, she's a god. And it's the episode where like—we've seen Glory fight Buffy. But like you said, we haven't seen her villain it up.
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: Like she's villaining it up.
Jenny: Yeah.
Ira: Yeah. This is a very good scene.
Kristin: Yeah. She's got like, the—Buffy tries to get the fire poker. And she's just one step ahead of Buffy the whole time. And—
Ira: And then Joyce comes in, all confused. "Was that a friend of yours? What?"
Jenny: [laughs] "She had beautiful hair!"
Ira: [laughs] "I thought it was me." [laughter]
Kristin: Joyce—Joyce's bandanna—Joyce is doing great—I mentioned it in Triangle, but we had only seen, like, one bandanna. But in this episode, she has two more fancy bandannas.
Ira: Yeah. Cancer-dannas.
Kristin: Cancer-dannas, yeah.
Jenny: Mm-hm, mm-hm, mm-hm.
Kristin: So—
Jenny: And Buffy's like, "pack a bag."
Kristin: Yeah. Well, because—
Jenny: And we're like, where's Joyce gonna go? New Mexico? Uh, to see her sister in New York. Somewhere very far away from here. No, why don't we keep her in town, in a crypt, with a vampire who can only defend her against non-human entities, so if any human gets involved? In Glory's camp? They'll be fucked.
Kristin: But there are no humans in Glory's camp, right? Well, I guess—
Jenny: Well, we meet some humans that wanna kill Dawn later this episode.
Kristin: Oh, right! Right. The Knights of—
Jenny: Byzanthium.
Ira: Although, we really learn nothing about the Knights of Byzanthium, by the way. Which, I love their appearance in this episode, but my other knock against Season 5 is they, like, plop in as an afterthought.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Yeah, "and here's this other thing."
Ira: Like, who thought about these thing—these people at all?
Kristin: Right.
Ira: And what they were supposed to be doing?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Right.
Ira: I guess human—
Jenny: And this knight that she fights at the end refers to himself as a man. And all of them as men.
Kristin: Yes. Which is why—
Jenny: Which is not necessarily—
Ira: I guess human, but I would think, like, imbued with something.
Kristin: Something.
Jenny: Yeah.
Ira: Like, how else do they become the knights? It's just very—
Kristin: Yeah. How do they get those head tattoos?
Jenny: Sure.
Ira: Yeah, it's just very...
Kristin: Yeah.
Ira: The knights suck. I think they're useless! [laughter] Anyway.
Kristin: I will, though, stand firmly in their chainmail camp. I do think that that's—I like it. I wanna touch it. I love touching chainmail. Okay! So. One thing that we didn't say, which I know everybody's watched the fucking episode, whatever, you might know. But the reason that she's bringing Joyce and Dawn to Spike, which fair—all of your Swiss cheese—
Jenny: No, but also, it is, like, the best thing she could probably do.
Kristin: Sure, whatever. But Glory has threat—Glory has said, "I'm giv—this is your one shot to tell me where the fucking Key is. And if you don't, I'll kill your mom. I'll kill your sister. I'll kill your fucking friends." And we take her very seriously.
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: It is—there is no question that she's going to do that.
Ira: "You know you can't take me."
Kristin: Yeah. [everyone laughs] It seems like you'll be in favor of one of our Sexual Tension Award nominees later.
Ira: Yes. Yeah.
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: Yeah, so they're—I mean, the great part about Joyce being back at Spike's—or being at Spike's, is that we get more Joyce and Spike. Which is one of my favorite pairings in the whole fucking show.
Jenny: Love to see Joyce and Spike. Love that they almost immediately find some common ground about watching Passions.
Kristin: Ugh! It's so good. And, um…
Ira: Buffy wanders the streets.
Kristin: Yeah, she's having—we haven't had a good—
Jenny: Looking like the fucking Ikea monkey.
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: Oh yeah, the coat.
Jenny: In that coat.
Kristin: Kate, uh, gave a nice nod to that coat, for good—I actually kinda like it.
Ira: I like the coat, but it's very...it's a very Buffy coat, right?
Kristin: It is, it's a very—
Ira: That and then the black skull cap, yeah, I like this look for her in this episode.
Kristin: I do too. It's very early-aughts too, like, this—it's a legitimate—this is a coat I would have definitely wanted to wear.
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: In the early 2000s. But yeah, she's wandering—we haven't really seen her have a good Sunnydale alley walk in quite some time, so it was nice to see.
Jenny: It's been awhile.
Kristin: But of course, as happens in any alley, uh, in Sunnydale—
Jenny: Knights of Byzanthium.
Kristin: Knights of fucking—
Ira: Useless knight. She fights him.
Kristin: This is very, like, Becoming, this sword. It just was like—it really reminded me of that sword that she—
Ira: It's probably the same prop.
Kristin: It's probably the same.
Ira: It's probably the same sword.
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: Probably same sword. [laughs]
Jenny: Anybody ever stop to think about, like, how much medieval weaponry—like, nobody in this whole universe wants to upgrade to something more modern?
Kristin: Well, I think we have a lot of traditionalists on our hands here.
Jenny: [laughing] Okay.
Kristin: And the demons are very—
Jenny: Yeah, the vampires, the Council. Sure, sure, sure.
Kristin: They like to stay with what always worked. And you know—
Ira: Yeah, no guns. We don't like that.
Kristin: That's what I'm saying, exactly, yeah.
Jenny: No, no, no, I don't want guns. I just want, like, you know.
Kristin: Robots?
Jenny: No! No, no, no. Not that far, just like… every weapon that they use looks like it was invented in, like, you know, the first half of the millennium.
Ira: So those modern swords, you mean.
Kristin: You want a mod—you want a retractable sword. [laughs]
Jenny: Ooh! No! [sighs] I don't know what I want. I just…
Kristin: Well, think—can you workshop this?
Ira: Switchblade.
Jenny: Oh, switchblades! Yeah.
Ira: Switchblades, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: Oh, yeah.
Jenny: Okay, remember Faith's knife?
Kristin: Faith should have had a fucking switchblade.
Jenny: Remember. Faith's. Knife.
Ira: Yeah.
Jenny: Though? Modern.
Kristin: Yeah.
Ira: Okay. Ish.
Kristin: But I would have—I'm—sorry, I'm gonna be lost in thought for the rest of the episode about Faith with switchblades. Are you a Nightmare on Elm Street person?
Ira: Love it, yeah.
Kristin: Do you remember Nightmare on Elm Street—
Ira: Dream Warriors, yeah.
Kristin: The best one, yes, where—
Ira: Yeah. Yeah, the punk girl with the—
Kristin: Yes!
Ira: Yes, of course I do. [Jenny laughs]
Kristin: Ugh, great. That's who I was picturing. I'm glad that we could all share in that moment together.
Ira: Yeah. She got killed with heroin.
Kristin: Yes, with heroin. Oh, and her—her arms—
Ira: When Freddy's fingers became needles.
Kristin: Yes.
Ira: And jammed into her.
Jenny: Gross.
Kristin: Ooh, it was rough. But she was great.
Ira: Great death.
Kristin: She said her—she had a line that was like, "Feels so good to be bad" or something like that. [Jenny laughs] She was great.
Ira: Good kill, Freddy.
Kristin: Yeah. Patricia Arquette. Not that character, but. Anyway! That's where I fell—
Ira: Yeah. Patty.
Kristin: That's where I fell in love with Patty, was in that movie. So yeah, we talked about the Knights of fucking Byzanthium. Is there much to say, except for that Buffy does not kill the knight and that is kind of the beginning of this question of like, if she doesn't kill him because she thinks he's human, I assume—
Ira: Yeah, he runs off.
Kristin: And he runs off. [Ian says something inaudible] [laughs] Yeah. Okay, so, um. This is kind of the biggest—well, it's not your favorite scene 'cause we've already passed your favorite scene. But it is a massive, uh…
Ira: We like Buffy's speech.
Kristin: Finale.
Ira: Yeah. We like her—we like—
Kristin: I mean…
Jenny: Well, when was the last time we had a good Buffy speech?
Ira: Yeah. A good one, too.
Kristin: This is an iconic Buffy speech.
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Ira: This is when they could still write Buffy speeches. Spoiler alert. Sorry.
NOTES: [laughter]
Kristin: Aww. But yeah, this is: "power, I have it, they don't."
NOTES: [Clip from episode plays]
Buffy: See. I've had a lot of people talking at me the last few days. Everyone just lining up to tell me how unimportant I am. And I finally figured out why. Power. I have it. They don't. This bothers them.
Ira: Yes!
Kristin: It's—it's… very incredible. Actually, if it's alright with the room, I think that we could go to the Sexual Tension Awards now. Because I think this is pretty sexy and pretty tense.
Jenny: Oh!
Ira: Mmm!
Jenny: Hit it.
Ira: Okay.
NOTES: [SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays] Sexual tension award!
Jenny: First of all, enough sexual tension, perhaps, that you could—maybe you wouldn't wanna cut it with a knife, but you might wanna have two of your sidekicks aim a crossbow at it while you're doing the thing. And I'm taking the long way, all the way around—
Kristin: [laughing] I know the nominees and I still don't even know which one you're doing.
Jenny: To Spike's crypt, where Lydia's totally into it.
Kristin: Yes.
Ira: Oh, that. Okay.
Jenny: Sorry.
Ira: I was like, what? What are we talking about?
Jenny: I know! [clears throat] Four score.
Kristin: Spike—Spike and I believe I referred to her as Watcher Fan Girl.
Jenny: Sure.
Kristin: I know she has a name, Lydia.
Jenny: AKA Lydia.
Kristin: Yes. Next up, we have Glory and Buffy, who I—
Ira: Mm-hmm. Very sexy scene.
Kristin: Yeah. Glory—
Jenny: Wooo! "You know you can't take me. But perhaps you'd like to try," the subtext screams.
Ira: Mm-hmm.
Kristin: Glory and Buffy in the living room with a fire poker.
Ira: Yes.
Kristin: That is my—that is my answer. Final answer. And then this scene that we are about to dive into has the other two nominees in it.
Jenny: Ah-ha!
Kristin: One is Xander and the smashing of the patriarchy. A nominee that we would have never seen coming, back in Season 2. But—
Jenny: Can you spell this out for me?
Kristin: Why I've nominated—?
Jenny: Oh, just because Xander's really enthusiastic about what Buffy's on about?
Kristin: Xander's—Xander's sitting up in the fucking rafters.
Ira: Yeah, he's cheering her on.
Kristin: He—and he is so hot for these dudes, just getting the knife twisted in them, you know?
Ira: He's just hot for Buffy.
Kristin: Yeah. Or that.
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: And the final nominee…
Ira: I don't think it's that noble. [Jenny and Kristin laugh]
Kristin: [disappointed] Aww.
Jenny: Aw, he's been having such a good friend arc lately!
Ira: Whatever, I prefer… Xander double. [laughter]
Kristin: Yeah. You and Anya both.
Ira: Real one should have died. Anyway! [laughter] Maybe he did!
Kristin: Ooh!
Ira: Twist. Anyway.
Kristin: A nice theory. The fourth nominee I think is the one that you knew that I was going to go for, is Buffy and power.
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: 'Cause that is the sexiest shit that I've ever seen.
Jenny: Mm-hm, mm-hm, mm-hm.
Kristin: Ira, did we leave anything out? Did you have anything that we didn't bring to the table?
Ira: No.
Kristin: Alright, so then, @BufferingCast on Twitter, you can vote in the Sexual Tension Awards.
Ira: It's Buffy and power. I'm just saying. [Jenny laughs]
Kristin: I mean, it's Buffy and power. They're gonna—
Ira: Janelle Monae said everything is sex. You know, "except sex, which is power."
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Ahhh!
Kristin: Yeah. That's actually I think the second or third time that that lyric has been quoted within the context of Buffering the Vampire Slayer.
Jenny: Uh-huh, uh-huh.
Kristin: Okay, so vote. So go vote. In many ways. [laughs]
Ira: She's also talking about Power, the TV show on Starz. Buffy watches it. Anyway! [laughter]
Kristin: Okay so, so this scene. Buffy's late. 'Cause there was a fucking attack, nobody cares.
Ira: Mm-hmm.
Kristin: Um, and… Glory has given her the other piece of the information that she needs to have figured this the fuck out. She throws a knife.
Ira: She does.
Kristin: It hits the wall.
Ira: A sword.
Kristin: A sword.
Ira: Yes.
Kristin: By your boyfriend.
Ira: Yes, 'cause she's like, "no interruptions" and then he's like [mumbling sound] and she throws it, like, "I'm fairly certain I said no interruptions."
Jenny: Hell yes!
Kristin: Yeah! Which is so hot and which also is—leads to a hilarious moment with Lydia, where Lydia's like, "exc—um. I don't wanna get a sword thrown at me."
Ira: Yes!
Kristin: But these are—and Lydia also makes a good—I kinda like Lydia.
Ira: Yeah.
Jenny: Lydia should be the head of the Watchers' Council.
Ira: "The boy has clocked more field time than all of you combined." [laughter] That's the only reason Xander's turned on, he gets a compliment.
Kristin: Ohh, true, touche. Touche.
Ira: Yes. But she is right!
Kristin: They are chil—they are children. I mean, I guess we're bordering children now. But they have been fighting since they were literally children, with no skill sets.
Ira: Willow at least has witchcraft. Xander's been fighting with them since teenager, and he never took a karate class?
Jenny: Like, come on.
Kristin: Seriously.
Ira: He should be training in the gym with Faith and Buffy.
Kristin: They should all be training.
Ira: Yes.
Kristin: I don't know if you've read the BOOM! comics, but they train in—and it was one of my favorite parts of the whole fucking new telling is I'm like, this is, this is what we would do.
Jenny: This makes sense.
Kristin: This makes sense.
Ira: Yeah. Xander should know how to fight.
Kristin: Xander should. Xander neglected to tell everybody that he still has his, like, soldier training somewhere in his brain that activates sometimes. But yeah, he…
Ira: Yeah, he told Cordelia that time though.
Kristin: [laughing] Yeah.
Ira: Hey! [Jenny laughs]
Kristin: That time. Oh, you mean that time?
Ira: Yes.
Kristin: But yeah, so… Quentin accepts this. You know? Like, he's… this is a little—I don't think you see this much in this dynamic. Usually you would see the powerful white man not be able to—
Ira: She grabs him by the Council. [laughter]
Kristin: Yeah, she does! She really does. And he's like, "get me a Scotch."
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: "You're right. Like, I accept—I accept your terms."
Ira: Yes, yes. Get me a Scotch and Giles goes to get it, and Buffy's like, "No!" [laughter] "Tell us what you came here for!"
Kristin: Yeah!
Jenny: Mm-hmm!
Ira: And then it's like, oh, Buffy's [sic] not a demon, she's a god. Wow. Tea. Anyway.
Kristin: [laughing] Tea! Yeah, so. So this means a lot of things. It's like, the Watchers' Council, as much as we fucking hate them, they are reinstated in a sense, in this episode. But they are reinstated as subservient to Buffy.
Ira: Mm-hmm.
Kristin: She has flipped it.
Jenny: I'd like to know how they got the information that Glory's a god. Like, where'd they dig it up?
Kristin: They had the right book, I guess.
Jenny: Hmmm.
Kristin: You know, they're hoarding—oh!
Ira: From the Library of Alexandria.
Kristin: A bunch of old white men hoarding over the knowledge of all the things in their library? Hmm.
Ira: Who are the other gods? Anyway.
Kristin: Ooh.
Jenny: What a great question.
Kristin: Yeah. Neil Gaiman wrote a whole book about it, actually.
Ira: Yeah, I'm sure you'll find out. [Jenny and Kristin laugh] You won't. Spoiler alert.
Jenny: They'll fill in all t hose blanks.
Kristin: But this is… yeah, this is—do you think this is the best episode of the season or do you think this is the best episode of the series?
Ira: Um, it's just my favorite episode.
Kristin: Your favorite episode.
Ira: Yeah. There's better episodes.
Kristin: And so what is it—what makes it your favorite? 'Cause that's a big—I mean, you are like… you are a Buffy person. You are—
Ira: The power speech, you know, Glory finally being villainous. I like Dawn in it. Um, I think it's funny. I like the Giles and her interactions. Yeah, it just feels very, like… it's very much, you watch it and you feel good after it.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: It's sexy, too.
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: It's very sexy.
Jenny: Yeah, it's got something for everyone.
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: Uh-huh. [laughs]
Ira: I mean, I—yeah. It's just one of my favorites, you know? I think, two episodes later is even better than this episode. Crush is better.
Kristin: Oh, Crush. I thought—I was like, don't talk—
Ira: Blood Ties is better, too. Blood Ties is a very good episode.
Kristin: Yeah. It's a good season.
Ira: Yeah, it's a very good season.
Kristin: It's a good season that we are just, like, slowly sliding down the back half of. I don't know how we got here, but um, yeah. This will take us in new directions. And by the time we see you again, Ira, so much will have happened, I'm sure.
Ira: Yeah, we'll celebrate that.
Kristin: But thank you for being a part of our episode!
Jenny: Yeah.
Ira: Thank you for having me!
Kristin: And literally, any time.
Ira: Yes.
Kristin: You are welcome on any episode, any time you'd like. We love having you.
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: I also love the—there's a crew of people who guest that do not use notes of any kind. [Ira and Jenny laugh] You know? And you and Kate Leth are like, the leaders of that crew.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And you—and not only do you not use notes, but you know everything backwards and forwards. In a way that I don't even think, after doing this whole entire podcast, I will ever know. Like, you really hold the knowledge in a powerful way.
Ira: Thank you.
Kristin: Yeah.
Ira: Thank you.
Kristin: So, yeah. Tell—I know you told us at the top some of your work, but you wanna tell people about your amazing Twitter handle that always makes me jealous?
Ira: It's just @Ira. [Kristin laughs] Find me there. [laughter] Find me now!
Kristin: Yes. I think most of you listening already do follow Ira and know about all of the things that he does, but they are incredible. So if you haven't already checked them out, do it.
Jenny: Well! I'm Jenny Owen Youngs. And when I'm not watching Buffy, I am writing and recording songs. You can check those out at jennyowenyoungs.com. You can give me a shout on Twitter @JennyOwenYoungs. And you can also hear me talk more on my other podcast, Veronica Mars Investigations.
Kristin: I am Kristin Russo, and you can find out what I do in my spare time [Jenny laughs] by going to my website, kristinnoeline.com. That's K-R-I-S-T-I-N-N-O-E-L-I-N-E. What's so funny, Jenny?
Jenny: Hi-res photos of all your knitting?
Kristin: [laughs] God, I wish. I should learn to knit. Um, but you can find out, you know, work I do with LGBTQ community and if I take up knitting, I promise to post photos. You can use that handle to also follow me on Twitter and on Instagram. I have a couple of cats, they're real cute. So if you're into that sort of thing, you know, hit me up over there. And we are Buffering the Vampire Slayer. Where do we find us?
Jenny: Well, we're on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram, @BufferingCast. You can email Kristin at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com, send her all your complaints. You can leave us a voicemail at area code 216—that's Cleveland, baby!—30-BUFFY.
Kristin: You're welcome. I got a great phone number for us.
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: Okay. You ready to howl?
Jenny: And so we shall…
Kristin: Are you ready to howl with us?
Ira: Sure.
Kristin: Your… third howl with us?
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: Is that right?
Jenny: Perhaps.
Kristin: Yeah. We had the Gwendolyn Post howl, the Prom howl, and now the fuck you Council howl.
Ira: Yes. [Kristin laughs]
Jenny: Okay, fuck you to the Council, 'til next time…
All three: Awwwwwooooooooooo!
Ira: Wonderful.
Kristin: Hell yeah. [Jenny performing "Checkpoint" off the album Songs from Season 5 by Buffering the Vampire Slayer] Put me through the wringer Run me through your tests Another stupid gauntlet Won’t make a difference You say you know what’s coming I’m hoping that’s the truth
But there’s something you’re forgetting: You need more more than i need you Hey mister wait a minute I don’t think you thought about it Why you tryna act like the boss of me Hey I don’t wanna argue All about who’s got the power Fellas I am not your commodity In your very ivory tower Making all your best-laid plans You move slayers like they’re checkers Never get blood on your hands Why you wanna test my patience And get on my last nerve It’s almost like your pride is More important than the Safety of the chosen girl Hey mister wait a minute I don’t think you thought about it Why you tryna act like the boss of me Hey I don’t wanna argue All about who’s got the power I think that we both know it’s gotta be me Wait, this is serious Look in the mirror cause You and me We’re on the same team <<< GTR SOLO!!! >>> Hey mister wait a minute I don’t think you thought about it Why you tryna act like the boss of me Hey I don’t wanna argue All about who’s got the power Fellas I am not your commodity