Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 1.09: The Puppet Show
Jenny: Hey friends, before we get started, we just wanted to tell you two quick things.
Kristin: Yes, the first thing is really good news, I think.
Jenny: We have some good news.
Kristin : [laughs] Surprisingly, we have good news. The good news is that if you are close to the New York area, we are going to be doing a very special ‘Buffering the Vampire Slayer’ live event, at Union Hall in Brooklyn, on December 18th. We’re gonna be playing through all 12 songs from the, uh, first 12 episodes that we have written so tirelessly.
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: And we’re gonna be showing clips, we’re gonna be doing trivia, we’re gonna have some of our very dear friends come by and help us perform. It’s gonna be so sweet, and so fun, and so festive, and so necessary right now.
Jenny: Mmhm.
Kristin: Jenny, tell them how they can find out more.
Jenny: You can find out more by visiting unionhallny.com. That’s spelled how you think.
Kristin: [laughs]
Jenny: Uh, and um, our show’s on December 18th so you can check out their calendar.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Look at that date.
Kristin: And it starts at 8:00 PM. It’s gonna be really great. It’s gonna be really great. We also wanted to just acknowledge something before going into this episode, which is, um, that we had pre-recorded, this is Episode 9 right?
Jenny: Mmhm.
Kristin: We had pre-recorded Episode 9 also before the election last week, and so as I’m sure a lot of you are feeling, we are, um, we are a little bit
different, in our toneJenny: [laughs] We’ve changed.
Kristin: [laughs] We have changed. Um, but we were really thankful that we had recorded this before, because we’ve heard from a lot of you after Episode 8 that this is, you know, buoying your spirits.
Jenny: Mmhm.
Kristin: Um, and so I think it’s really nice that we were lost in a land of simple appreciations here, and I think, and you know, and I think too, and I do wanna say this that I, I’m very tied to getting back there for Episode 10
as well. SoJenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Um, we got a little respite [laughs] by having this beforehand.
Jenny: [laughs] Yes. So enjoy, uh, a window back in time to pre-election
results Jenny and KristinKristin: [laughs]
Jenny: Talking about Season 1, Episode 9.
NOTES: [Theme Music]
Jenny: Hello and welcome, to yet another episode of ‘Buffering the Vampire Slayer’, a podcast where we talk about each and every ‘Buffy the Vampire Slayer’ episode, one at a time, in chronological order, because that’s the way God intended. I’m Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: [laughs] And I am Kristin Russo, and this week we are talking about
Season 1, Episode 9: The Puppet Show!
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: [dramatically] Dun, Dun, Dun! [laughs]
Jenny: [makes uneasy noise] Stay tuned at the end of this episode, and every episode for an all new, all original song that we will be writing to recap what happens in this episode. Yeah!
Kristin: Yeah! Who wrote, where are we in the grand scheme of things here? Who wrote this? Who directed it? What day was it?
Jenny: Let me help you get your bearings.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: This episode was written by Rob DesHotel, or perhaps Rob Day-Hotel, his middle thing is D-E-S, and Dean Batali, and was directed by Ellen S. Pressman. Lady behind the camera!
Kristin: Nice.
Jenny: And it first aired on May 5th, Cinco de Mayo, 1997.
Kristin: [laughs] Um, also for those of you who want to be reminded what this episode is about, it is called ‘The Puppet Show’, so you probably have an idea if you’ve already seen it. [laughs]
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: Um, but IMDb tells us in their succinct description: "Buffy suspects that a ventriloquist dummy may be harvesting organs from classmates performing in a talent show."
Jenny: If I have to see this trope one more time, in American TV and
cinemaKristin: [laughs] Over, and over, and over again.
Jenny: Just always with the living dummies and the harvesting of organs.
Kristin: Harvesting of organs, I know, the one two punch.
Jenny: Give us a break!
Kristin: [laughs] Um, so, okayJenny: Let’s talk about this.
Kristin: Yeah, so I read that this was the lowest rated episode of "Buffy the Vampire Slayer’ in its history.
Jenny: Mmhm.
Kristin: I haven’t fact checked, I haven’t like double fact checked that, but
that is what I hearJenny: If one place on the internet says it, it’s probably true.
Kristin: It’s probably true right? That’s how the world works, these days. Also this is another episode with no vampires.
Jenny: No vampires!
Kristin: And this is the 4th episode out of 9 with no vampires.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: So they better get on track here.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: We need some fangs, we need some blood suckingJenny: Preferably, yeah with kind of like aKristin: GarlicJenny: Mmm.
Kristin: Communion wafers, where, where are all the goodJenny: Yes! I miss the communion wafers, the good old days.
Kristin: The stakes, come on guys! [Jenny laughs] But some important things happen in this episode. Namely, within the first few seconds.
Jenny: Oh boy.
Kristin: This may be the lowest rated of the episodes, but it may contain my favorite scene of all the episodes
NOTES: [Jenny laughs]
Kristin: Which is when we go into the theater and Cordelia is- it’s funny ‘cause they set it up like they’re auditioning but they’re really not, they’re just, like, practicing. I guess?
Jenny: Yeah this is a weird talent show set up.
Kristin: Like anyone can do this talent show, and Cordelia is singing… [singing] At least I had my... [speaking] Wait how does it go?
Jenny: [Singing] I decidedKristin: [Speaking] "I decided long ago never to walk in anyone’s shadow."
Jenny: Very Cordelia.
Kristin: The reason I got confused on the lyrics- and I didn’t tell you this Jenny, although I may have told you in our history- this song, this Whitney Houston song, came out I’m gonna say- you can look it up while I tell this mini story, but I think this Whitney Houston song came out in like maybe ‘84 or something like that. ‘85? Somewhere in there. And I say that because I remember the video. It was Whitney Houston and she was standing on a stage. She was lit by like one dramatic spotlight and she was singing this song. And I thought that the lyrics were umm... you know... [singing] "If I fail, if I succeed... duh dun duh dun…" [speaking] And then when she got to "But you can’t-" The biggest line in the song- "But you can’t take away my dignity." I thought she was saying [singing] "But you can’t take away my cup of tea."
Jenny: What?
Kristin: I don’t know. I was small. How small was I? What year did it come out?
Jenny: Well I’ll tell you Kristin. [Kristin laughs] Uhh... It’s difficult, sorry there are multiple versions. March 18, 1986.
Kristin: ‘86. Okay so I was six. I was six and I was- I loved the song. But I don’t know- [Jenny laughs] I didn’t know what dignity was. I was six years old so I thought she was- I thought somebody was trying to take away her cup of tea. That’s dramatic.
Jenny: Yeah, you don’t want anybody to take away your cup of tea.
Kristin: You don’t wanna lose that. Anyway, not to divert us too far from the main focus of this episode which is Cordelia’s opening number. I mean, I know this is really early on, Jenny, but I love Cordelia. I love her so much.
Jenny: How much do you love her? Should we do something about it?
Kristin: I think we- we can’t get past even the credits this time.
Jenny: Alright. Let’s get right to it then.
Kristin: Thank you. Thank you.
NOTES: [Cordelia jingle]
Kristin: Whoo!
Jenny: And how!
Kristin: Glad I got that out of my system.
Jenny: Me too. [Kristin laughs] That miniature song you just heard is of course Cordelia , our Cordelia appreciation anthem. And if you happen to occupy the center of the venn diagram that shows the overlap of iPhone users and people who love that Cordelia song, you can download it as a ringtone from your iPhone. You’re welcome.
NOTES: [Kristin laughs]
Jenny: So we see Cordelia singing. She is so great. Doing such a great job.
Kristin: God she’s so great. But you know if she’s outperformed by anyone in this scene...
Jenny: It’s Giles, right?
Kristin: It is Giles!
Jenny: So much fantastic, subtle face acting from Giles in this episode and so much exasperation and resignation.
Kristin: I feel like if you were a high school teacher watching this series you just wanted to [Jenny laughs] jump in the screen and hug Giles. Like his facial expressions are just total "What am I- How did I get here? How did I get here?"
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: "How did I wind up here and who are these monsters?" [laughs]
Jenny: Yeeess!
Kristin: [laughing] He really nails it. And then we meet-
Jenny: For the first time everKristin: Principal... Snyder.
Jenny: Very exciting.
Kristin: Oh boy!
Jenny: Oh man! So great! What an entrance. And before we go on we just wanted to tell you guys something so exciting. We were able to speak to Armin Shimerman who portrays Principal Snyder at some length and we’re gonna be sharing our entire conversation with him in a bonus episode later this week.
Kristin: Yes! On Saturday we’re gonna put up a second episode of the week which is so exciting.
Jenny: Whaaaat?
Kristin: We were so so excited. I want you to all be excited because Armin is an incredible human being and uh... yeah!
Jenny: What a peach.
Kristin: So many stories! Just endless wonderful, wonderful stories from Armin.
Jenny: And he’s so kind.
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: Okay so watch your feeds for that later this week, but anyway.
Kristin: Okay so Principal Snyder...
Jenny: We’re getting a first look.
Kristin: We’re getting a first look and a very clear first look. I mean he tells us himself how he differs from Principal Flutie within like his first few seconds. [Jenny laughs] He is like "I am not taking shit! I am not taking anything! I don’t like kids! This place is gonna be ship-shape!" He’s like the army general coming in.
Jenny: Yeah yeah yeah. And he’s saying Flutie was all touchy-feely, and then he says, "Sunnydale has touched and felt for the last time."
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: So good.
Kristin: He also so casually is like, "And that’s what got him eaten!"
NOTES: [Both laugh]
Jenny: Very laissez-faire about the last principal getting devoured.
Kristin: We are on the hellmouth, so everybody’s used to it I guess. Even Principal Snyder. I wonder where Principal Snyder came from. But anyway... Yeah we meet Principal Snyder and then Willow has a moment before we get to the credits here that I scratched my head about. When they see the dummy- so that’s important- we see the dummy. We see that the dummy is part of the show. And that this kid has done a horrible voice but then all of a sudden does this incredible voice. And Buffy, we learn Buffy doesn’t like dummies.
Jenny: Very relatable!
Kristin: However, Willow- very relatable- Willow: "I think dummies are cute."
Jenny: Ew Willow! Shut up!
Kristin: What are you talking about Willow? Don’t...
Jenny: Ew!
Kristin: It’s not even truthful. I don’t think Willow thinks dummies are cute. I think she just got confused.
Jenny: [Laughing] Yes, there must be some mistake.
Kristin: Dummies aren’t cute. They’re terrifying.
Jenny: No yeah they’re suuuper creepy with their little unhinged little jaws. [Jenny makes noise of "bleh" followed by quickly moving tongue to make an L sound over and over again] But how great to also see Giles who has just been looking so exhausted and so bummed out. [Kristin laughs] And he’s being mocked by his three teenage pals. And then those teenage pals get roped into the talent show by Principal Snyder and then Giles is so pleased!
Kristin: Yeah he really is very excited. [Jenny laughs] Very excited to have them on board. And then dancer Emily gets attacked in the locker room. R.I.P. Emily
Jenny: Cut to credits.
Kristin: Bye Emily. It was a good opening shot on Emily.
Jenny: Another great spooky locker room scene. Why are locker rooms so good at being spooky?
Kristin: I don’t know. This episode, I have- I took some notes too in scenes that are coming up about the fact that- we just talked about this in the last episode- that I think, and I’ll see how I feel when we get into seasons two and three, but I feel like season one of this show is really... horror movie.
Like it’s really pulling out a lot of theJenny: Oh yeah.
Kristin: This episode does the same thing with the creepy locker room shots and the scene where she’s walking over to the locker that she knocks the
lock in and opens the dummy case to reveal no dummy. That is totally doneJenny: Yeah yeah yeah yeah.
Kristin: I did make a note that in this episode I think we see Buffy walking in dark rooms of the high school to creepy music for a very long time. Like if we started to measure this [Jenny laughs] it’s probably three to four solid minutes of Buffy just walking in silence with creepy music.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah. A lot of dimly lit creepy areas of the high school that we haven’t seen yet. The auditorium, backstage...
Kristin: Right. Yeah that’s true. That’s true. We do see a lot more of the high school that we’ve seen to date. And I saw that bird’s eye view of the stage floor towards the end which really made me reminisce about being in high school. That is exactly the way the high school theater stage looked at my high school. All beaten up and walked over and eighteen different tape marks all over it. You know? I don’t know... Did you have talent shows at your high school?
Jenny: Umm... I think so... Probably... I think I was in one one year…
Kristin: Doing, like, Singing?
Jenny: Like playing an original song... I think.
Kristin: By Jenny Owen Youngs? A Jenny Owen Youngs original?
Jenny: I think so. The really big thing every year was we had a lip sync contest.
Kristin: Oooh.
Jenny: Which I also got roped into one year.
Kristin: What did you lip sync?
Jenny: Oh boy. Well usually people would do something- I don’t know if anyone of you at home listening have seen Kristin’s lip sync work.
Kristin: Oh yeah if you’re not familiar, Everyone is Gay’s YouTube channel has just an arsenal of lip syncing.
Jenny: Lots of examples.
Kristin: I’m a pro.
Jenny: And that’s very dramatic and fun and there’s like props and stuff. But because of the kind of high schooler that I was and the people that I hung out with, just the people I was in a real band with, we all dressed up like The Smashing Pumpkins and played our band instruments and that’s it.
Kristin: Awww!! That’s so fun! Were you Darcy?
Jenny: Also, inexplicably- I was Darcy and I had these silver pleather pants
from Hot Topic that I woreKristin: Niiiice! Man, Hot Topic sure is getting a lot of mentions for free on this podcast.
Jenny: Right? We’ll take that Hot Topic sponsorship any day now. [Kristin laughs] I don’t remember what shirt I was wearing but I do remember that I
had this silver lipstick and for some reasonKristin: Yeeees
Jenny: I don’t know what possessed me but I was like- I did my lips and
then I was like "Fuck it!" And then I did my whole faceKristin: What!?! [Laughs]
Jenny: [Laughing] In silver lipstick! I don’t know why! [Laughs] I don’t
remember ever seeing Darcy with like a complete silverKristin: What did you just like unhinge?
Jenny: Yeah I was just like, "What have I got to lose?"
Kristin: Just a very quiet moment of a person putting on lipstick [Jenny laughs] when it just starts to go, like, outside of their mouth all over their face.
Jenny: Go big or go home. Go face or go don’t.
Kristin: I’m gonna imagine that if you had pictures of this I would have
already seen them butJenny: Yeah I don’t have pictures…I apologize.
Kristin: What a loss. What a loss to the world. Wow.
Jenny: Uhh... So wait sorry, did you guys have a talent show?
Kristin: I don’t think so. I mean I was in theater in high school so they had like a fall play and then they had the big spring musical and they did like a secondary, like a smaller little sort of on book musical at the end of the year.
Jenny: Ahhh. We did like a fall play and a spring musical too, but I was never in it.
Kristin: But you didn’t do that. Yeah I spent the better part of my high school career in the theater. In the high school theater. That was my whole life.
Jenny: I just uhhh... Just the audition process as a concept...
Kristin: Yeah...
Jenny: I just can’t. I couldn’t do it.
Kristin: That was the worst part. That is the worst part of the process. Or at least that was the worst part for me. Putting yourself out there to be scrutinized and chosen or not chosen.
Jenny: No thank you.
Kristin: It’s very difficult. But it’s fine everyone. I played Mary Warren in The Crucible. I was in, let’s see, Camelot , Pippin , and Once Upon a Mattress where I almost- I think that I was close- or at least in the running- to get the role of the princess in Once Upon a Mattress because she’s one of the only leads in a musical that doesn’t have to be able to really sing very well. She’s like a brassy alto, kind of like a character part in the musical, but she’s the lead. I can’t sing very well, but I thought I almost had it, and then I didn’t get it.
Jenny: Did Margo Martindale swoop in and steal the role?
Kristin: Margo Martindale swooped in and got the part! What’s funny is that- Well actually maybe I shouldn’t talk about that on the podcast. Nevermind! [Jenny laughs] A story for another day when we’re good friends.
Jenny: Yes quite.
Kristin: But yeah so I spent a lot of time in the theater in my high school and I felt like t this is a good representation, but we did not have a talent show.
Jenny: Huh.
Kristin: So okay, we get past the credits and we jump right into the character of Sid because the first thing I have written down is- They’re in the theater and Sid is- this is like the scene where Sid is sitting with- What’s his name?
Jenny: Morgan.
Kristin: I keep wanting to call him Malcolm.
Jenny: That’s from last episode.
Kristin: That’s from last episode. Morgan is sitting with Sid and Sid looks over at the group, the Scoobies, and says, "Mmm, mmm, mmm! Look at the goodies." [Jenny laughs which turns into a disgusted noise] And yeah... And
this is really just with us throughout. Sid isJenny: It is a bummer.
Kristin: It’s such a bummer and I mean it’s like a 1930s- he’s like a 1930s dude, so I think they were pulling on [sarcastically] the way dudes talked about ladies in the 1930s.
Jenny: Or today...
Kristin: Or today. Just using different words.
Jenny: Oooh...
Kristin: It’s just there’s something- it’s like- female objectification is rough already but when it’s done by a wooden dummy. [Laughs]
Jenny: Yeah that is just extra...
Kristin: Extra special creepy. Oh and then we find out that dancer Emily has been behearted.
Jenny: Right. Just before the scream. Which was a great scream.
Kristin: Great scream. I wish I knew whose scream that was.
Jenny: Yeah it was a beautiful scream.
Kristin: Beautiful horror scream.
Jenny: Mmm. A+. We have Giles talking to Principal Snyder and-Kristin: This is actually where he says he doesn’t like kids.
Jenny: Yes, he does, he’s talking about how he doesn’t like kids, and they’re not people and Principal Flutie thought kids were people and, "that’s the kind of wooly-headed liberal thinking that gets you eaten."
Kristin: [laughing]
Jenny: I feel like we meet principal Snyder and everybody’s talking about him like he’s been the principal for a minute already, and he’s like "I’ve been watching you three" and like, you know "I’ve been observing this" and "there’s a new sheriff in town," whatever. So all the characters already know him but we’re meeting him for the first time. They did such an amazing job introducing this character and making it very crystal clear but also obviously it's a ridiculous overstate-- y’know it’s just blown out of proportion but it’s so great, all of his lines are so great. He’s just got this amazing air of just like[snarl, snarky imitation], so great.
Kristin: Right, yeah, he’s a great character, great actor and great character combined.
Jenny: Combined! So anyway, Emily is dead in the locker room and she’s been de-hearted.
Kristin: Emily loses her heart – de-hearted. Again, Sunnydale high school strikes again here, with – you guys, one strand of caution tape, the students are directly up against it, they’re bagging the weapon just out in the hallway, the ziplock is not even sealed, there’s a bloody knife, and they’re all – to give credit to the Sunnydale high school students, they are very calm
about this, because it’sJenny: It seems to be a regular enough occurrence that – water off a duck’s back.
Kristin: People dropping left and right over at Sunnydale high school.
Jenny: And because there’s a weapon involved, the Slayerettes are
thinking, "this is a person, not a demon". Willow says, "It could be anyone: it could be me!"
Kristin: Jenny and I guffawed twice in a row at that line when we watched it. When we watched it once and twice.
Jenny: It’s so funny!
Kristin: But I really liked this moment, I thought this was a very interesting moment. It was small and fleeting, but what I pulled from it – because, they’re like "oh, this would be – it’s simple if it’s a demon, right? Because demons are pure evil." And so we know, demons are here, they’re gonna need their heart, they’re gonna harvest it, and onwards they go. For our understanding of that evil is clear. But if this is a human – if a human did this – they sort of set it up, well, that’s more complex. Then, we’re walking in really fucked up territory. Because for a human being to kill another human being, is much more, I think in their view and mine, much more of an atrocity than a demon.
Jenny: Absolutely.
Kristin: So I thought that was interesting.
Jenny: For sure.
Kristin: Oh dear! My next note! My next note is just, "Hah hah hah hah hah Cordelia." What did she do? I don’t even remember!
Jenny: I believe all the Slayerettes are on their individual detective runs, and Cordelia is going on and on and on about what a tragedy Emily’s death is for her.
Kristin: Right, well, she actually says, " Emma and I were best friends." And then I noticed, because Buffy is wearing this dress in this piece, it’s like a leopard dress…
Jenny: Go on.
Kristin: But I’m pretty sure it’s a shirt. And that’s not me judging. You know, wear what you would like to wear, people.
Jenny: It’s just a simple matter of clothing...
Kristin: It’s just classification.
Jenny: Clothing math here!
Kristin: What is that garment? When do we call it a dress and when do we call it a shirt? Where is the line? Buffy’s right on it with this. I’ve tried to watch to see if she was able to sit down or do anything, but they cut every – as she would go to sit, they would cut to the next scene.
Jenny: Oh my god!
Kristin: But to go back to Principal Snyder for a just second, because Giles is talking about this, they’re in the library now, and Giles is talking to them about Principal Snyder, because I think this is the part when Buffy is like, "are you serious that we’re gonna be concerned about this talent show, this is ridiculous! We have stuff to take care of, Giles! You know better than to prioritize school things."
Jenny: Right, right, right.
Kristin: But Giles has this moment where he’s like "No, Principal Snyder is watching us, and if we’re not careful, we’re going to have obstacles to get around that are gonna make it even more difficult for us to deal with the demons and the vampires on the Hellmouth." Which is investing a pretty good amount of power in Principal Snyder, because nobody was worried about Principal Flutie.
Jenny: Right, he was a little bit of a – he was just a bump, you know? He wasn’t a wall.
Kristin: And I think too, for me watching this, first viewing of this episode in my life – so, I think they’re setting up, they really set you up to think Principal Snyder is harvesting hearts. I mean, you really think that. He’s always lurking behind a corner. There’s this incredible…
Jenny: Yes, he’s always somewhere.
Kristin: There’s a couple - there’s two incredible lighting moments for Principal Snyder in this. There’s one when he’s - they’re both backstage. One as he’s coming down the staircase...
Jenny: Yeah, and he’s lit from below.
Kristin: Yes! And it’s like this triangulation of light on his face that’s super spooky. And then the other one is where he’s lit from behind and his whole head is silhouette except for his two ears are just lit through, so that they’re bright red glowing ears. So nice. So you really think - I mean, I thought, I definitely thought - I kind of thought Principal Snyder had something to do with it.
Jenny: Right. Yeah, we’re definitely meant to think that.
Kristin: I have some future knowledge. Like, had I not seen the series, the whole series, then I would have thought, oh, it’s definitely Principal Snyder.
Jenny: Right, right, right.
Kristin: Yeah. Also - sorry - this is a big Principal Snyder episode! But he has this line where he’s like, you know, I’m not gonna tolerate this, and I’m not gonna tolerate that, and he ends with "I’m not gonna tolerate hearts being removed and I’m not gonna tolerate smoking!" [Laughter]
Jenny: He’s a guy who knows what he’s about.
Kristin: Right, right.
Jenny: I can appreciate that.
Kristin: And also, this is the perfect Sunnydale High School situation, where, like, the principals, the students, they all have to kind of weigh demons and horrible things against everyday struggles like smoking cigarettes.
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: You know, Buffy has to study for her exam, and slay vampires. Principal Snyder has to watch people’s hearts and also keep them from smoking. Which I guess is really watching a heart in multiple ways.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: Concerned about the well-being; the health of the students.
Jenny: [Laughs] So next we’re in Buffy’s room, and hey there’s Joyce, after a minute away. Good to see you, Joyce!
Kristin: Great to see Joyce.
Jenny: She’s dreaming about bills.
Kristin: Yeah. Oh, just as Joyce would. Just such a modern woman, paying her bills, raising her kid, working her job.
Jenny: Has anything ever been worse than when Joyce closes the door and
Buffy is getting into bed, and it pans over to the window and Kristin: No.
Jenny: The dummy’s face.
Kristin: No.
Jenny: When the light goes out it’s just there in the window...
Kristin: No.
Jenny: Yeah, it’s real bad.
Kristin: So bad. I screamed. The first time I screamed gutturally, and the second time, knowing that it was coming, I still screamed.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah, yeah. It’s terrible.
Kristin: It’s horrific . And if anything beats the horrific value of that reveal where the lights go out and that goddamn dummy head is in the window it’s the pitter-patter…
Jenny: Ughh!
Kristin: Of his tiny little wooden feet!
Jenny: Terrible. Just terrible. Brrrrrr.
Kristin: I hate it. Oh, it’s so good, though. It is really an effective creep factor.
Jenny: Just awful.
Kristin: Oh, yes. So creepy. So then commercial break. Actually, the commercial happens and then we get the tapping feet. And I love this, because something happens in this episode, where Buffy is afraid of dummies. She has a fear of them. And so she does things that I think are kind of out of character for her a lot in this episode. ‘Cause she wakes up with a dummy in her bed. Which, I will give it to you, Buffy, that’s creepy. But also, we’ve seen you behead demons and wrestle with vampires, and you deal with all sorts of mucky stuff.
Jenny: Mucky!
Kristin: And yet she is terrified. She screams for Joyce, and it’s not even like she screams for Joyce, realises her error and is like, "oh, nothing, Mom." She’s, like, "something is in my bed."
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Which, UnBuffy.
Jenny: Very unBuffy.
Kristin: But there’s something about this. It’s like, they’re not - we’re about to get to this scene with Xander not taking her seriously. You know, Xander’s not taking her seriously. Giles is not taking her seriously. And she’s really afraid and acting in ways that are very unSlayerlike.
Jenny: Yeah, out of character.
Kristin: Yeah. Which is cool, ‘cause we’ve seen her as a character who doesn’t really get afraid.
Jenny: Yeah, and if you’re gonna get afraid of just one thing…
Kristin: Yeah! [laughs]
Jenny: It should probably be a living wooden dummy! Bll-ll-ll [makes freaked out noise]
Kristin: Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Jenny’s freaked out, and Jenny’s really not afraid of - no, Jenny’s afraid of a lot of things.
Jenny: Hey now. [Kristin laughs] I am definitely not having that dummy.
Kristin: So before we get to Xander not believing Buffy… [laughs] If you don’t notice yet, no matter how inconsequential Cordelia’s moments are I will likely bring them all up. [Jenny laughs] But this is good, right, Cordelia’s losing it. She’s like, "I’m not sure I can go in this part of the talent show, because the mood won’t be right for my song."
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: And Xander has tipped Giles off to the fact that if he just mentions her hair she’ll go away and it works, it works. She gets very concerned about her - "What - what about my hair?" and she just flees off stage.
Jenny: And then the look of surprise and then ultimate delight on Giles’s another round of subtle, great, face acting from Anthony Stewart Head. Also, I just wanna say, this scene opens with the magician practising and, I’ll tell
you what: I don’t agree with his methods or what he’s all about, but he does kinda make me wanna go buy a cape.
Kristin: Oh boy.
Jenny: I haven’t had a cape in so many years.
Kristin: When did you have a cape?
Jenny: Like, when I was in elementary school.
Kristin: Oh, ok.
Jenny: You know, Halloween cape, magic cape.
Kristin: And what would you do with your cape?
Jenny: Executioner cape…
Kristin: Oh my.
Jenny: That was my last cape, I think.
Kristin: Wait…
Jenny: Which was sixth grade
Kristin: I’m sorry. Let’s just all take a moment here. You had many capes?
Jenny: Yeahhh.
Kristin: The last of which was an executioner’s cape.
Jenny: That’s right.
Kristin: And what… I’m sorry, audience, if you all know this, but what is an executioner’s cape? How is it differentiated from a cape?
Jenny: It’s just the cape that I had for my executioner costume at the - oh boy.
Kristin: Yeah, why - for Halloween?
Jenny: Well, nope.
Kristin: Ok. Yeah, it didn’t look like Halloween.
Jenny: So every year, I was in this one class in elementary school, where every year the sixth graders who were in that class got to pick an event, and they put together a whole event for, like, the rest of the school.
Kristin: Mm-hmm.
Jenny: And I was like - I had been going to Mediaeval Times a bunch, and reading a lot of Forgotten Realms novels, and, you know, just being very enthusiastic about fantasy and Renaissance fairs in general.
Kristin: Yes, yes, of course.
Jenny: So I was like, what if the theme was "Renaissance Fair"? So my teacher was like, "yes, let’s do that!"
Kristin: Uh-huh. Thinking, you know, standard costumes for a Renaissance Fair...
Jenny: Well, I mean, it was a whole thing. They had guys from Mediaeval Times come in and do a fight demonstration...
Kristin: Wooow!
Jenny: And everybody was talking in goofy, you know, whatever people think - you know, Shakespeare English.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Which I don’t think is particularly - correct me if I’m wrong, but I don’t think Shakespeare English was really the way anybody actually talked.
Kristin: Right, right, right.
Jenny: But everybody’s talking like that, and everybody’s in costume, and there were games, and it was a whole thing. And also, in sync with that, the other event that spawned off this Renaissance Fair was that we did a Renaissance Fair rehash of The Wizard of Oz called The Lizard of Oz , which
referred to a dragon Kristin: Stop it! Who was this teacher?
Jenny: Her name was Susan Painter. She was so awesome.
Kristin: Susan Painter!
Jenny: Yeah, she was amazing. She made me think I could do anything.
Kristin: I mean you - she made you think that because you literally did. You were like, "I want this!" and she was like, "cool!" and then you were like, "Let’s do that!" and, like, [Jenny laughs] that’s amazing!
Jenny: Well, I don’t think the musical was my idea. I was just like, "Renaissance Fair, I love Renaissance Fairs."
Kristin: I hope that it was Susan Painter’s idea to call it "The Lizard of Oz".
Jenny: I believe that is accurate.
Kristin: Whooph!
Jenny: So, I was the equivalent of the Scarecrow - I was a jester.
Kristin: Ok. Oh, was that when you learned how to juggle?
Jenny: Yes! That is when I learned how to juggle.
Kristin: Wow, this story is full of Jenny trivia.
Jenny: And then for the actual Renaissance Fair, which was a separate day, I dressed up as an executioner, because I was a weird kid.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And I’m gonna go out on a limb here and say my mom made a lot of
costumes when we were kids, so Kristin: Right.
Jenny: I’m gonna guess that she sewed the cape.
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: You didn’t know any of that about me.
Kristin: Well, you know, you still have that mom, so maybe you can ask her if she’ll make you an adult cape.
Jenny: Oh my god! Christmas is coming!
Kristin: She did just send us an email asking what we wanted for Christmas.
Jenny: I’m gonna tell her I want a cape. A cape!
Kristin: Mom - yes, your thirty-four year old daughter is ready Jenny: I’ll be thirty-five by then. Ready for another cape.
Kristin: Ready for an adult cape.
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: Wow, that was a real tangent.
Kristin: Oh, that was important. That is what podcasts are for. [Laughter from both] So, right, Xander doesn’t take Buffy seriously. You know, they think it’s a cat. They think there’s bigger fish to fry. We go to class.
Jenny: Oh my god. Why is this kid allowed - in what universe is this kid allowed to have his ventriloquist’s dummy out in class.
Kristin: Just sitting at his desk!
Jenny: Also, this is not the first time something has done a hundred and eighty degree head spin to look at Buffy while nobody else knows what’s going on.
Kristin: I’ll answer this trivia.
Jenny: Who was the first?
Kristin: What is the praying mantis?
Jenny: [singing voice] Yeah! Natalie French.
Kristin: What is her name? Natalie?
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Natalie French. And this is something that we - we read this little factoid on the internet, but I’m excited about it mostly because Jenny made a huge deal in episode 3, Witch , about the troll pen that Buffy was using, or that Buffy was carrying around. And we see the troll pen again. I mean, we didn’t see it either time, looking for it or not looking for it. But if you go back to the scene where they first enter the History classroom, they pan across the classroom and Willow is there, and Willow is writing with the troll pen. Second spotting of the troll pen.
Jenny: [sighs happily] Let’s keep an eye out for that troll pen.
Kristin: I like that we watched it the second time and didn’t see it, and I was like, I’m gonna find it, and I went back and frame by frame was searching for it. I just wanted to see; I just wanted to know. [Jenny laughs] So this is super creepy, right? The dummy turns around, looks at Buffy [Jenny makes freaked out sound]. It’s just really - I mean, low ratings or not for this episode, the creep factor for the dummy is pretty high. But then Cordelia has this moment that I just treasure, where it’s just her and Buffy in the back of the classroom. She says, "Oh, it looks like the dummy’s taken a liking to you, guess you can go on tour with the freak show". Or, whatever, some typical Cordelia dig. And she is so satisfied with herself. There’s nobody looking! You know, usually when you see this set up, there’s other people around, and she’s like, "Check out what I did; I bullied, haha". She’s by herself; nobody has seen her and she smiles to herself.
Jenny: And tosses her hair.
Kristin: Tosses her hair. She’s like, "Nailed it! Nailed it, Cordy! You really got her good."
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: Really, really good. And then we go - Xander has this dummy. Xander steals the dummy out of the teacher’s cabinet, once the dummy gets taken away from - why can’t I remember his name?
Kristin and Jenny: Morgan.
Kristin: I know, Morgan. I dunno. Ok. Anyway, the dummy gets taken away from Morgan, Xander takes it, they have it in the library. Xander does - his dummy voice is very upsetting.
Jenny: Yeah, it’s a bummer.
Kristin: It’s really a bummer! I just - skipping ahead - I like a lot of things, but I love the moment when the dummy disappears.
Jenny: Oh my god!
Kristin: It’s so good.
Jenny: When Xander sees it...
Kristin: Xander’s so - I’ve got this dummy thing on lock. And then, he puts the dummy in the chair, and Giles and Willow go upstairs to read the books,
and he turns around - the dummy is gone. And he Jenny: Leaps onto the table!
Kristin: Yes, he screams and in one swoop, I think jumps onto his chair. And that’s hysterical.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And that’s a real react- and I thought, way to go, Xander.
Jenny: Totally!
Kristin: And then when Giles and Willow find out that the dummy is gone. ‘Cause I feel like the direction here was, like, "act like a rat just got out," ‘cause they’re all just, like, "what can I stand on?" [laughter] It tickled me; it really tickled me. And there’s that amazing music cue, too.
Jenny: Oh, what was the music cue?
Kristin: Sid disappears and there’s a cello - some kind of a string that’s like, brrrrm! [makes medium pitched vibrating sound…]
NOTES: [much laughter from both]
Jenny: Also, before the dummy disappears, it’s important to notice that when Willow and Giles are discussing where they’re headed in the library, Willow says she’s "Once again banished to the demon section of the card catalogue," and Giles says he’s going to "Poke about in organ harvesting".
Kristin: Organ harvesting.
Jenny: What Kristin: This library.
Jenny: Section of the library - in what part of the Dewey Decimal System. Where can I locate demons and organ harvesting? ‘Cause I’d like to do some reading.
Kristin: I think you have to go to the Sunnydale Library.
Jenny: I guess so.
Kristin: Is the thing, right?
Jenny: Maybe. Oh, take me there.
Kristin: So, then a lot of stuff happens, whatever.
Jenny: Buffy goes to the auditorium to look for Morgan. She’s walking around backstage and there is a 3D demon bust, portrait thing. It looks as though it were a painting, that was a window into another dimension and the demon is sticking its head through the window that she walks past. And it’s like, what in the fuck high school has that backstage?
Kristin: You know, Jenny, you keep asking these questions. How do they have the books? Why do they have the paintings? And I think you’re forgetting where we are.
Jenny: Really, that’s it?
Kristin: I mean, we’re on the Hellmouth.
Jenny: Ok, I’ll stop asking.
Kristin: No, I was just making a joke.
Jenny: [at the same time] No, I reserve the right to be incredulous!
Kristin: No, I love it. You call it out as many times as you need to! Right, she’s looking for Malcolm...Morgan, whatever.
Jenny: Snyder shows up very well lit…
Kristin: Right, right, we get first good Snyder lighting here.
Jenny: Implies that she isn’t safe walking around by herself.
Kristin: Oh great…
Jenny: And she is very incensed: "I can take care of myself!"
Kristin: Buffy says…
Jenny: How dare you?
Kristin: Squashing the patriarchy…
Jenny: Hah! The patriarchy!
Kristin: Under her Slayer heel.
Jenny: Yeah, under her fashionable boot heel. [laughter] Then Snyder goes away, and it turns out Morgan is dead. And then, oh no, here comes a chandelier!
Kristin: See, now, I’m glad you walked us to this moment, because, how heavy could that chandelier be? Doesn’t she have Slayer strength? I guess she doesn’t have a lot of leverage, ‘cause she’s pinned. Once she’s under it I’m there with her. Once she’s under it, I’m believing that maybe it’s hard to leverage the strength to get the chandelier off of her.
Jenny: But don’t Slayer abilities perhaps imply Slayer reflexes?
Kristin: They do, she’s had - she’s a little off kilter in this episode, she really is.
Jenny: Thrown by the dummy!
Kristin: Well, ‘cause she’s afraid. You know, it’s just like any person, or
Slayer: if you’re working from a place of fear, you are not working at your a hundred percent capacity.
Jenny: Totally.
Kristin: So I can justify this with that, but there’s a commercial - I call them commercial breaks because they’re where commercials went, but we see the chandelier fall, we cut to commercial, and when we come back, I was ready for her to be twirling the chandelier on her pinky finger. You know, I was shocked when I saw her pinned underneath it. I was like, "Buffy! Get it together, girl, you’re supposed to be - reflexes like a cat!"
Jenny: I wonder - random sidebar question that you just made me think of - I wonder if, for people who are watching on Hulu, if the ad breaks…
Kristin: Are where the ad breaks are?
Jenny: Exactly. I wonder if they’re breaking it up the same way.
Kristin: Well, let us know
Jenny: Because I think there’re a lot of ad breaks on Hulu.
Kristin: Yeah, let us know, humans. Do the commercials go where the
commercials ought to go? For some reason I feel like: no. For some reason I feel like that would be way too awesome if they really got that to work properly. But yeah, she’s pinned under this chandelier. Is this all one day? Is she still in the leopard dress with the jacket?
Jenny: Well, I don’t know if it’s the same -
Kristin: It’s not the same day.
Jenny: This episode doesn’t take place in one day ‘cause she sleeps at least
once Kristin: So next day.
Jenny: Time seems to have no meaning in the realm of the talent show, ‘cause they’re just all always there. What are they doing? Right, they’re all walking in different directions, practising, but all really close to each other, so how effectively can you really rehearse? Other people are rehearsing loudly near you.
Kristin: Yeah. A mystery that is not solved in this episode; I’ll tell you what. So, Sid, ok? Sid thinks Buffy is the demon, we go through this whole thing. But when Sid goes over to Buffy, and she’s pinned under the chandelier, and he goes after her head with a knife, and she tilts her head to the right by three millimetres to avoid the knife blow. My thought was, "This dummy killed six other demons?" His fighting style is pretty weak. He has no strength at all - he’s just a little tiny sack of bones, so I’m just curious as to how he conquered the other six demons.
Jenny: Another six tales for another six episodes.
Kristin: I guess we’ll have to find out. Do you know who I miss right now?
Jenny: Who’s that?
Kristin: I miss Kate Leth.
Jenny: Oh my god, me too!
Kristin: It’s just, like, we’ve talked a little bit about short dresses.
Jenny: We’ve talked about leopard prints.
Kristin: Yeah. And I think it’s time.
Jenny: I think it’s time too.
Kristin: Kate, give us the Buffy Fashion Watch.
Jenny: Please. [jingle] It’s time for our friend Kate to give you the Buffy fashion update!
Kate Leth: Welcome back, everybody, to an episode where I finally get to talk about Cordelia in no less than three distinct outfits, although I am gonna focus on two of them, because they feature my favorite kind of fabric. Ok, listen. After everything that happened in the last week, I did not think I’d end up researching the differences between velour and velvet. But here we are, right? Whatever gets you through the day. So, velvet is shinier than velour, but it’s woven whereas velour is knit. This means that velvet doesn’t stretch. So in the opening scene, Cordy’s got that high-necked, silver, short-sleeved, incredible... situation, but it’s stretchy which means that it’s probably velour, or, more specifically, crushed velour. If velvet or velour are crushed, that means they’ve been processed so the fibres - which are known as the nap, by the way, no big deal - they lay asymmetrically rather than in the same direction, so instead of being smooth they’ve got that mottled, creased effect that was super popular in the nineties and in the sixties and seventies before that, since all fashion is cyclical. In her later scene, before the talent show, her dress has a more rigid construction. It’s thicker, you know, instead of being stretchy, so that leads me to believe it’s crushed velvet. Either way, Cordelia has her bases covered and, as always, looks perfect. The rest of the gang don’t wear a lot this episode that stands out. Pretty standard looks; everybody’s kinda rocking what they’ve been rocking for the past couple of episodes. But Buffy does have that micro-mini leopard print dress that she wears with her leather jacket, and guess what boots? Just try, just try and guess… oh yeah, it’s the brown ones. But I do wanna point out Willow’s daisy chain necklaces and her super basic earrings, because I’m sure it was an intentional stylistic choice that she always wears children’s jewellery. Almost everything that Willow wears is
really basic: chunky beads, or only one bead, where Buffy has a lot of silver, you know, things that are a little more dainty. So it makes Willow look a little more childish, a little less grown up. And it works. But also, I mean, she deserves better. It’s fine. Also, Giles’s sweaters in this episode are like, [significant pause] really good [laughs]. He’s cute; what can I say? Until next time, I’ll see you at the mall. [jingle] That was our friend Kate. She gave you the Buffy fashion update!
Jenny: Thank you, Kate, for that insightful look inside the mind and closets of all those in Sunnydale.
Kristin: Yes, thank you, Kate. So, more pitter-patter, more horrible pitter-patter of those feet.
Jenny: The worst.
Kristin: And then we find out all this backstory about the dummy. I think that this happens in this piece, that we find out all the reasons. He thought she was the dummy [meaning demon]; he was trying to kill her. But actually she’s not the demon, and it turns out, and - yes, Jenny, wide eyes…?
Jenny: All of this information is interrupted when Giles says, "[gasp] the show!"
Kristin: The show must go on!
Jenny: So for once - for once! - Giles is in the position that Buffy is usually in, where he has to balance his school responsibilities with his demon fighting responsibilities. [with drama] How the tables have turned! And the chickens have come home to roost, in a bed of your own making!
Kristin: [laughs] I really hoped you could keep going for a bit. I’m proud of you.
Jenny: That’s all I got.
Kristin: Yeah. So we go to the theatre. And the idea is we’re gonna figure out who the demon is by whoever the missing student is, ‘cause the brain has been harvested. Because we forgot to talk about it, because nobody cares, but Morgan has been de-brained.
Jenny: Bye, Morgan.
Kristin: Bye, Morgan. Literally nobody cares. We make it to the end of this episode; there is a talent show that is fully performed. Morgan was totally de-brained in the back of the theatre- not addressed at all. So, whatever, sorry Morgan. Morgan’s brain was not up to snuff, is what we find out, because Buffy, unfortunately - Buffy really has a rough run! She’s got the dummy this episode…
Jenny: The brain goop…
Kristin: She accidentally grabs a full human brain in her hands [Jenny makes freaked out noise], and even Slayers have their limits here. That’s pretty nasty. And we learn that Morgan’s brain is not viable.
Jenny: Right, ‘cause cancer. [Kristin laughs] RIP. Sorry Morgan.
Kristin: Yes, I wasn’t laughing at Morgan’s brain cancer, I was just laughing because I was already hearing Willow’s disbelief…
Jenny: Oh my god!
Kristin: At being the smart - so, they’re in the library.
Jenny: Oh, the demon’s gonna need somebody really smart, and Xander and Buffy exchange a meaningful glance and then they both look at Willow and Willow’s like, "What? what?" Oh god. Willow’s so great in this episode.
Kristin: Yeah, Willow is so…
Jenny: So many great moments.
Kristin: She really does. This is one of her top ones though. Her disbelief. She knows the square root of…
Jenny: Eight hundred and forty one.
Kristin: Eight hundred and forty-one.
Jenny: Which is of course twenty-nine.
Kristin: Wow. Ok, I have a question.
Jenny: Yeah?
Kristin: I know that we give Sunnydale a lot of room for what they allow, and their nonsense, and they don’t call the cops and they don’t care about murder. But a guillotine? An actual blade that could sever - ?
Jenny: To be fair, you know who’s in charge of the talent show? Giles.
Kristin: Yeah, that’s true [laughs].
Jenny: His mind is a little divided. No pun intended [laughing].
Kristin: But this is upsetting - ooh, nice one! But this is upsetting to me, though. Fine, Giles is in charge, it’s Sunnydale; maybe there’s a freaking guillotine in the talent show, like, an actual guillotine. But Giles was - how does he lay down on this table?
Jenny: That is…
Kristin: That’s just; that’s not…
Jenny: Is he really the smartest person around?
Kristin: He is smarter than this. We have not really called anything out on, like, "hey writers - ehhh?"
Jenny: But his British foppishness; his, sort of, [in a stuffy voice] "oh, I couldn’t possibly be rude…" You know?
Kristin: [unconvinced] I don’t…
Jenny: I’m not buying it; I’m just saying…
Kristin: That’s how they couched this.
Jenny: It seems that way.
Kristin: I suppose.
Jenny: That seems, how he’s playing it. I love them running down the hallway.
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: Gi-iles!
Kristin: And there’s a janitor in the hallway that sees them run out of the library and is just, like, "Crazy kids! Always running around, screaming about their librarians!"
Jenny: Here’s an important question about physics and stuff. How many axe chops does it take to cut through a five-eighths of an inch thick piece of rope?
Kristin: Well, I guess demons are good at what they’re good at, you know? This demon is good at certain things, like harvesting…
Jenny: Harvesting organs!
Kristin: Organs, but not as good with an axe.
Jenny: Gotcha. He’s no Paul Bunyan.
Kristin: Yeah, you give him that knife back and he’ll probably be really nailing it, but, yeah, he struggles with the rope, thankfully. I was so excited about this teamwork in this scene.
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: Giles was the only one I was disappointed in, because, how did you get us to this position in the first place, Giles? No, thank you. But Buffy flies in, knocks out the demon just before he hits the axe to the rope one more time and Giles gets de-brained. And then Xander grabs the rope as it’s falling.
Jenny: Beautiful.
Kristin: Catches the blade in his hands. And then Willow grabs the axe over to the lock to get him out.
Jenny: Yeeeees!
Kristin: Fantastic! They are getting it together, this team. Everybody’s got their place.
Jenny: Yeah, really nice. Like a well oiled machine.
Kristin: Like a well oiled machine.
Jenny: Also, I love - as Buffy is fighting the magician and kicks him into his presto chango box, we’ve seen this kid doing all these magic tricks and none of them are working.
Kristin: Right?!
Jenny: The rabbit’s not in the hat; he’s telling Giles which card to pick; his assistant doesn’t get out of the box when he spins it around. He goes into the box, and then he busts out of it fully transformed into a demon! The first time one of his magic tricks has sorta worked, in a way!
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah.
Jenny: Such a nice moment.
Kristin: Yeah, finally. [Jenny laughs] Finally he’s a successful magician and a fully formed demon. Buffy has a great moment too when he’s starting to change, before he goes into the box; she kicks him or something, and his face is part demon, and she just has a really great "Ew." That she’s so - and her "ew" actually gets her knocked on her ass, ‘cause she says "ew" in the moment of it being disgusting, and he gets a punch in, or something. He gets something in that knocks her to the ground. So, they defeat the seventh - ‘cause this is the seventh…
Jenny: Right, right, right.
Kristin: The seventh. And Sid gets this really wonderful last moment, where he’s been waiting to die. We didn’t talk about the moment where he’s up in the rafters with Buffy - I mean, we kind of did, because we talked about him objectifying everyone; gross, Sid, gross.
Jenny: Right, right, they have a heart-to-heart interlaced with some objectification.
Kristin: Yeah. But in this moment, Buffy, for whatever reason, just looks right past the objectification, or looks at it endearingly.
Jenny: Well, not totally endearingly. She is, like, "ew."
Kristin: Yeah, she’s, like, "gross."
Jenny: Gross.
Kristin: I think she’s, like, gross, but also, this dude’s been trapped in this dummy body for a while; maybe now’s not the time for a lecture on treating women properly.
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: But they have this really sweet moment where she knows, they all know, that once this demon is defeated he will be let free.
Jenny: Which means he’ll be dead.
Kristin: Which means he’ll be dead. But it’s something that he wants and has sought after for many many years. And so he stabs the demon in the heart, and then disappears. Dies. Whatever you want to call it. And then…
Jenny: Buffy picks him up.
Kristin: Buffy picks him up.
Jenny: Like a little baby Jesus.
Kristin: And then up comes the curtain.
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: To a fully packed theatre, waiting, anticipating the beginning moments of the talent show. And the reveal is a beheaded demon, Buffy holding a ventriloquist’s dummy…
Jenny: Giles putting his glasses on.
Kristin: Yes. They understand that. They’ve seen that enough times.
Jenny: They’ve seen that before.
Kristin: But yeah, this is just a really good moment. And Principal Snyder is sitting in the - I think when you’re watching this for the first time, this is like, "Oh Principal Snyder didn’t have anything to do with it."
Jenny: Right, right, right.
Kristin: He’s sitting in the audience and he’s, like, "Oh, what is this, avant-garde?"
Jenny: So great.
Kristin: And somehow then they just transition from that scene into the talent show. There’s no…
Jenny: Well, it just goes to the credits.
Kristin: Well, right, but I mean in Sunnydale time.
Jenny: Oh, right. Who knows.
Kristin: They’re like…
Jenny: We’re stage clearing…
Kristin: Ah, hah hah, don’t mind this, and they drag the demon’s body off stage. You know what I was reading that - I think this is a very commonly known fact, but the decision to make the vampires, when they are killed, turn to dust, was a very practical decision.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: Because otherwise there’d be all these dead bodies on screen, and Buffy would be tasked with clearing the dead bodies and things, so them turning to dust was very practical for that. But I thought of it here because there’s this, like, demon body that’s just laying there. So I don’t know what they’d do with that. They should have a series called "After The Show."
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: What happens? What do they do with that demon’s body? Before we talk about the split screen I just want to make sure we don’t forget about our Sexual Tension Award.
Jenny: Oh, great. But let’s leave the dummy out of it.
Kristin: Yeah, that’s the thing.
Jenny: Maybe Morgan and the dummy.
Kristin: Morgan and the - I know, but ugh.
Jenny: Yeah, no, it’s fine.
Kristin: I had a tough time with this one, ah, sexual tension.
Jenny: Is there just no sexual tension in this one?
Kristin: It was kind of sexual tension-less for the most part, right? It was just, like, who? I don’t know.
Jenny: RIP sexual tension.
Kristin: Well, I mean, maybe we give it to you. Who do you think had the most sexual tension? Do you think there was sexual tension in this one? Normally I’d just throw it to Cordelia and Buffy for fun, but I - they weren’t even…
Jenny: Yeah, they don’t even have a good thing going.
Kristin: Didn’t really happen. So I guess if we had to give it to anyone it ugh - it would have to be Morgan and the dummy.
Jenny: Let’s just not, though. Let’s just throw it in the garbage before we give it to them.
Kristin: Yeah. History’s happening here, folks. Season One, Episode Nine.
Jenny: No Sexual Tension Award.
Kristin: No Sexual Tension Award. But then something really unique happens with the credits.
Jenny: Yes! The one and only time in the whole series that we have a split screen between the credits and a little extra footage at the end.
Kristin: Right, and also they don’t use the font in the…
Jenny: Yeah, they don’t use the Slayer font.
Kristin: They don’t use the Slayer font. Probably because they wanted to fit it in the half screen. The thing that’s interesting about - and I don’t know if this was the reason why they decided to put it with the split screen, but this scene of Buffy, Willow, and Xander doing this clip, this bit of Oedipus - wait. Yeah. It’s of Oedipus, right?
Jenny: I look to you, theatre major.
Kristin: Yeah, it’s Oedipus Rex. And it was only split screened in the initial airing of this episode. All future airings up until the most modern time, now, on Netflix and Hulu didn’t have this split screen, and then the DVDs did have it.
Jenny: Right. And also when it went into syndication on other networks besides the WB.
Kristin: It was just the - ‘cause the WB didn’t…
Jenny: The WB didn’t want it.
Kristin: Right, and one of the little trivia points that I think explains why this is the case says that during a panel discussion that was a DVD extra, on the Season Seven DVDs, Joss Whedon said that after they shot this episode they got a note from the network asking for the talent show scene from Oedipus to be removed. The note said, quote, "We realize that it’s Shakespeare but does he have to talk about sleeping with his mother?" end quote. The ancient Greek play Oedipus Rex was actually written by the Athenian playwright Sophocles about two thousand years before Shakespeare was born. So WB didn’t want this clip in, but it somehow was in the initial airing.
Jenny: Yeah, it just slid right by them.
Kristin: Yeah. And then they took it out. But I thought that was kinda fun and also - you guys.
Jenny: It’s pretty hilarious.
Kristin: Shakespeare. Sophocles. Potato, potahto.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Right, so, wow. Here we are.
Jenny: Yeah, I think we’ve done it.
Kristin: We’ve done it. We’ve done most of it. I think we did a lot of it for this episode.
Jenny: Thanks so much for listening this week. I’m Jenny Owen Youngs, and when I’m not watching Buffy I am usually writing songs and recording them. You can learn more about me at jennyowenyoungs.com/buffering and you can give me a shout on Twitter @jennyowenyoungs. Also, for the month of November I’ll be working to raise funds for four
important organizations: the ACLU, Planned Parenthood, Everyone Is Gay, and Every Town For Gun Safety. These are four organisations that do great work all day, every day of every year, but now they’re more important than ever. The way that I’m working to raise funds is that I’m creating custom, hand-written lyric sheets and you can order them at squareup.com/store/jennyowenyoungs or if that url is too long you can just go to my Twitter page @jennyowenyoungs and click on the link in my top pinned tweet. I’ll be making these through the end of the month, they’re a hundred dollars a pop, you pick the song and you pick the organisation where the funds go.
Kristin: Super awesome.
Jenny: Hey, thanks.
Kristin: Hey, thank you. I’m Kristin Russo and you can find me over at Twitter @kristinnoeline [spells Twitter handle], and when I’m not here talking about Buffy, I am working to bring advice and laughter and resources to LGBTQ youth and their families and I will tell you what. I have breezed right through that description of my work for the past eight episodes of Buffering, and in this past week I have realized - not that I didn’t know how important the work was before - but I have realized how important it is right now. So I just want to encourage all of you to visit everyoneisgay.com or mykidisgay.com or share those urls, share those accounts using your social media, or using your mouth- I don’t know how you share things. But right now, young people especially, and their families, really need to know that there is support out here for them, that there are people that have their backs, and I am one of those people. So, yeah. I’m really thankful to be doing the work.
Jenny: Thank you for doing the work. Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on Twitter @bufferingcast and on Facebook at facebook.com/bufferingcast. You can email us at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com
Kristin: We also just want to remind you that this is a very special week here at Buffering the Vampire Slayer because on Saturday we are going to have a bonus episode. A very special episode where Jenny and I were able to have a chat with Armin Shimerman, who plays Principal Snyder. We have some wonderful stories to share from Armin and we’re really excited to bring you that extra episode. And that’ll be up on Saturday.
Jenny: What a guy.
Kristin: What a guy! Oh, what a guy. Seriously. We’re in love with him.
Jenny: For real. Then on December 18th we’ll be bringing our first ever live event to Union Hall in Brooklyn, New York, so if you are in town or in town adjacent, please consider joining us. You can get full details and tickets at unionhallny.com
Kristin: And really, really fun thing - really fun thing! - [singing] we have a shop, we have a store, we have a place where you can buy enamel pins and more.
Jenny: [singing] Shirts and pins! Shirts and pins!
Kristin: [laughs] That was on the fly, everybody. Just so you know, in case you couldn’t tell, that wasn’t this week’s song. We have a store! If you go to bit.ly/shopbuffering or go to our website and click on ‘store’ you can find our enamel pins; we have a ‘Slayerette’ pin and a ‘Cordette’ pin.
Jenny: [interrupting] Designed by Kate Leth - sorry!
Kristin: Designed by Kate Leth. Jenny couldn’t contain herself; she had to jump in! And we have Buffering the Vampire Slayer t-shirts with the logo designed by Kristine Thune. Everything is really really looking fun in there, so if you want to get your shop on you can do that at bit.ly/shopbuffering Last but not least, I just want to give a special shout out to one of our listeners named Andrea. I went out to get a meal just a few days ago, and Andrea was one of the wait staff at the place that I ate, and not only did she come over and thank us for the work we were doing with Buffering, but then, before I left, I got free ice cream for my work here at Buffering the Vampire Slayer. Jenny wasn’t with me…
Jenny: Yeah, [sarcastically] my biggest problem with this story, Andrea!
Kristin: Well, I mean, ice cream’s tough to travel or I’m sure she would have sent some home with me for you.
Jenny: I guess we’ll just have to go back.
Kristin: We’ll have to go back.
Jenny: But you’re not allowed to eat the free ice cream that I’m making up.
Kristin: Ok. I’ll sit and watch you eat the free ice cream for the second time.
Jenny: That would satisfy me. Thank you.
Kristin: But really, really special, Andrea, thank you so much! Also, we just posted this on Twitter, but we got our very first fan mail. Christina made us two ‘Cordette’ patches.
Jenny: They’re so sick. Thanks Christina!
Kristin: They’re so, so wonderful. So yes, thank you. Thank you for the free ice cream; thank you for the adorable patches. And thank you all for being amazing. You’re wonderful and we are so excited to have this to tie us all together in what are some difficult times.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: It’s nice to have vampires, and ventriloquist’s dummies to get us through.
Jenny: [laughs] Really takes the edge off.
Kristin: It really does! So, with that…
Jenny: Till next time…
Together: Awoooooooooooooo! [Jenny performs ‘The Puppet Show’ from the album ‘Songs From Season One’ from Buffering the Vampire Slayer] This week is the talent show and if there’s one thing that I know It’s that I don’t wanna do it but somehow I got roped into it Everybody else is good at stuff - Cordelia sings (at least sort of) But my talent’s best kept hidden not like, for example, Morgan’s ventriloquism Why did it have to be A live ventriloquist’s dummy I wish that it was anything but that Cause me and dummies have an uncomfortable past And I don’t need to bore ya With the details of my phobia I just wish that it was anything but that Oo-oo-ooo oo-oo-oo-oo mmmmm Somebody’s been harvesting - first a heart, then a brain Guess a demon needs some organs to keep livin like a human Sid’s not evil so it seems but Principal Snyder might be Yeah the jury’s out on that one Anyway Mark the magician went into his magic box and changed into a full-skin demon and attacked us but we beat him and then stabbed him in the heart (yeah) Why did it have to be A live ventriloquist’s dummy I wish that it was anything but that Cause me and dummies have an uncomfortable past And I don’t need to bore ya With the details of my phobia I just wish that it was anything but that Oo-oo-ooo oo-oo-oo-oo mmmmm