Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode A1.08: I Will Remember You
Jenny: Hey! A podcast you might like if you enjoy Buffering the Vampire Slayer is the Bechdel Cast. The Bechdel Cast is a podcast on the How Stuff Works network about the representation of women in movies. That does sound interesting.
Kristin: [laughs]
Jenny: Each week, hosts Jamie and Caitlin and a special guest examine a popular movie and discuss its representation of women through a feminist lens.
Kristin: [sarcastically] I can’t think of why it would be important, Jenny, to talk about the representation of women - I don’t, I don’t really get it.
Jenny: Yeah, who cares, really?!
Kristin: Yeah, I mean, like, personally, I feel good on that, like I don’t— Yeah, it’s, we’re fine.
Jenny: We seem fine.
Kristin: We seem fine! Um, obviously, we’re not fine, so this podcast is really important, um, and really, really wonderful. Some of the movies that Jamie and Caitlin have already discussed are Star Wars, Black Panther, Frozen, Jurassic Park, Twilight - ohhh, I haven’t listened to the Twilight episode but [laughing] oh boy, do I wanna listen to that episode! - uh, Love Actually, Pulp Fiction, so many more, so, uh, we cannot recommend it enough, listen and subscribe on Apple Podcasts or wherever you get your podcasts. You will not be disappointed.
Jenny: It’s so great.
Kristin: So great.
Jenny: Oh, hello.
Kristin: [Laughs] Hi Jenny. How are you doing?
Jenny: Hey Kristin, I'm doing well. How are you?
Kristin: I've really missed you. It's been a while.
Jenny: I have missed you also and I've also missed, uh, all of the people listening right now.
Kristin: Yeah, same, same. We've missed you all so much, but let me say something and that is, we took the majority of September off - we did give you a special mailbag for everyone - but because we took that time off, we decided let's come back hard. Let's come back - let's come back so hard, in fact, that we put up not one, but two episodes today. Uh, we have—
Jenny: That’s right!
Kristin: Yeah! We have an episode here where Jenny and I will be discussing ‘I will remember you’ with Laura Zak, cohost of Angel on Top, and today in the Angel on Top feed, you will have another episode discussing ‘I will remember you’, where Jenny Owen Youngs is a guest with Laura and Brittany, hosts of Angel on Top.
Jenny: Hell yeah.
Kristin: It's pretty exciting. What else? Tell them what else they get, Jenny.
Jenny: Well, not just two episodes, but also two beautiful poems by Laura and
Brittany: one from the perspective of Angel, and one from the perspective of Buffy for this landmark crossover episode.
Kristin: Oh yes, you'll get Buffy’s poem in our episode and you'll get Angel's poem in theirs. Really, really powerful stuff that they've brought to light here in the, in the poetry segment of this podcast.
Jenny: Yes, yes.
Kristin: But Jenny, that's not even all, that's not even all!
Jenny: No. There's one more component of this wild, wild ride, and that's that
there are also two songs this week: one in our episode from Buffy’s perspective as usual, and I will be singing that one, and one in the Angel on Top episode from Angel’s perspective.
Kristin: Mm-hmm.
Jenny: And that means that we had to cast Angel.
Kristin: [Gasps] Who could it be?!
Jenny: Joining us this week as the voice of Angel for the first time ever is the one and only Ben Thornwell, of Jukebox the Ghost fame, and, uh, also of being a great, wonderful person fame.
Kristin: [Laughs] Well, I, early in the songwriting process, I said to Jenny, "Um, I believe that Angel would, like, play the piano. Like I just feel like…" [laughs]
Jenny: [Laughs] Yeah, yeah, I wrote both songs on guitar and Kristen was like, "Yeah, but do you know what would be more dramatic?"
Kristin: [Laughs]
Jenny: And I was like, "Unbuttoning a button or two on this silk shirt?"
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And Kristin was like, "Yeah, but also: the piano."
Kristin: I mean, literally the thing that any person does when they unbutton a button on their silk shirt, the next move is to tickle the ivories.
Jenny: Tickle the ivories, yeah, wow.
Kristin: Am I right? Yeah.
Jenny: You're so right.
Kristin: You knew where I was going, everybody did. So, um, yeah, and not only—
Jenny: Some ivories just need to be tickled.
Kristin: [laughs] Not only do we get two songs - so you'll get Buffy’s song at the end of our episode and you'll get Angel's song at the end of the Angel on Top episode for this ‘I will remember you special’ - uh, but we are releasing our very first vinyl. I'm so excited.
Jenny: Holy flip.
Kristin: I'm so excited. So we're doing a split seven inch - that's what you say in industry terms, Jenny?
Jenny: I, yeah, I mean, technically it's all under our umbrella, but uh...
Kristin: Oh, I see.
Jenny: So it's not thoroughly split, but it's like... partially split.
Kristin: I mean, Angel and Buffy will never... Like, Buffy will never remember what has happened to her, so like it’s split.
Jenny: Right, right, so it’s deeply split.
Kristin: It’s really, really split. So we're releasing a split seven inch with Jenny's, uh, Jenny's rendering, of course, of the Buffy song that you'll hear at the end of this episode on one side, and then, uh, Ben Thornwell's, uh, rendering of the Angel song, uh, at the, on the other side of that vinyl, and Kristine Thune, who you know and love because she designed our logo, designed a very special, very, uh—
Jenny: Oh god.
Kristin: —uh, sad little cover, uh, for—
Jenny: It’s so beautiful.
Kristin: It really is so, so beautiful.
Jenny: Can't wait for you all to see it.
Kristin: You can preorder that vinyl starting right now, right this moment, you go to bufferingthevampire slayer.com, click on ‘Shop’. The records are up for preorder now, the vinyls need to be made and as soon as they are made, they will be sent to you so that you can relive the heartbreak of it all as many times as possible, uh, on your record players.
Jenny: However, if you can't wait for the vinyl or you need something to do while you wait for the vinyl, we'll also be releasing them digitally. Uh, the songs will be up this month on iTunes and elsewhere, uh, and hopefully by October 12th, sometimes the digital distribution gods smile upon us and sometimes they frown. But we'll keep you updated, uh, you can check socials or we'll be doing updates within the episodes, I'm sure, re. the availability there. Yes!
Kristin: Yes, and, um, last but not least in this little segment of the intro, uh, of course, if you are patrons, you get songs. So the way that that'll work this week is that all of our Buffering patrons are going to get the song you hear at the end of the episode today, but all of the Angel on Top patrons are going to get the Ben Thornwell Angel version of the song. So that's how that'll work. You can obviously find out all the information, uh, on our website and oh my gosh, we, we have to stop talking so that we eventually get to the song at the end, you know what I mean?
Jenny: [Laughs] Right, right, right, right, right.
Kristin: But a couple more updates before we get there and then we'll get right into this episode.
Jenny: Indeed! We've got a Patreon Buffywatch of ‘Hush’ coming up Sunday, October 14th at 2pm Pacific. Please join us if you are a patron of ours, and if you're
not, you can always become one: just go to bufferingthevampireslayer.com and click on ‘Patreon’, you can learn all about our Patreon situation there.
Kristin: Yes, and, uh, in line with Patreon stuff, also our $10 patrons get Q&A videos, and Jenny and I are going to be making another one of those, uh, in just about a week, just a little over a week. So there is a Q&A thread in there where you can leave your questions for us if you're a patron at the $10 level or higher. So go on and do that if you have questions.
Jenny: Yes, leave us your delicious, succulent questions! Also listen, we are going to London. I will tell you what, we're going to the Vampire Ball, which runs from November 30th to December 2nd. We are hardly the most exciting people that will
be at the Vampire Ball: James fucking Marsters will be there?! You're welcome.
Kristin: Uh, yeah, not to mention [sings] "Drusilla, you fill-a", and—
Jenny: Oh my god, yeah, yeah, Juliette Landau will be there, wow!
Kristin: Yeah. And Darla. I say all of their—
Jenny: [squeals]
Kristin: —character names and Jenny says their actual names.
Jenny: Oh my gosh, Julie Benz.
Kristin: Great job.
Jenny: Thank you!
Kristin: Uh, yeah, and not to mention, like, the Master and like, uh, Kennedy, so we have a lot that’s gonna be going on in London.
Jenny: Yeah. Oh my gosh. It's going to be amazing. We’ll be doing a live taping there and we'll also be high fiving you and having a gay old time. So hope to see any of you who might be there, there.
Kristin: Right. Uh, also if you are not in London but you are in Seattle or coming to Seattle for PodCon, we will be there January 19th and 20th with about one million other incredible podcasters doing all sorts of fun things. Who even knows what we're going to be doing? But we're going to be taping a lot of stuff, we're going to be hanging out, high fiving, it's going to be a lot of fun.
Jenny: Yes, yes, yes.
Kristin: So we will see those of you who are going to PodCon in Seattle. Then you can also get, uh, remote tickets for podcasts so that you can tune in, um, remotely, so you don't even have to be in Seattle if you live far away for that. So you can check out more information all over on PodCon’s website.
Jenny: That is going to be so fun. Uh, also, you know what else is fun? Uh, sometimes in a young girl's life, you don't have to wait two weeks to hear us talk again. We'll be back next week with our episode for ‘Something blue’, one of the funniest episodes of Buffy, I think? Like situationally?
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah, yeah, I'm pretty excited to talk about that one.
Jenny: There are some very, very special moments in that episode, I'm really excited for it, so see you then.
Kristin: See you then, and, um, last but certainly not least, we sometimes veer into the political over here when we talk about Buffy the Vampire Slayer because it's a show about fighting big bads, and we know that a lot of you, including the two of us, have just been through the fucking wringer, uh, with the events of last week, and, you know, we, we pre-taped this, even this intro by a few days here, so by the time this goes up midnight on Tuesday, um, we'll see if there are any other developments. But it's been really hard. It's been really, really hard, um, watching everything that's been happening, and when that happens, we like to come together. We like to acknowledge the fact that, like, Jenny and I really struggled, um, watching all of the, you know, everything that just went down and seeing how the country responded. It's been really tricky and really complicated, and we want you to know that we're walking through that with you. And, like we did at the, um, in the aftermath of the election, we sort of scoured for a good Buffy quote that we thought might speak to what it is we're feeling most right now. Um, Jenny, do you want to read that quote?
Jenny: "I don't know what's coming next, but I do know it's going to be just like
this: hard, painful, but in the end it's going to be us. If we all do our parts, believe it - we’ll be the ones left standing."
Kristin: Mm-hmm. So just a little message from us via Buffy to all of you. We love you, um, we know that part of this, part of this community that we've built, uh, is just creating so many beautiful things, so many beautiful relationships, and that we all hold each other up, and we're going to continue doing that. And part of the way we do that is we talk about really fucking great episodes of television with really badass characters. So without further ado, Jenny, let's get the fuck into it.
Jenny: Let's do it!
NOTES: [Clip from episode plays]
Angel: Look, we said our goodbyes, no need to stir any of this up again.
Cordelia: You don’t wanna "stir", but if my ex came to town and was all stalking me in the shadows and then left, and then he didn’t even say hello,I’d be—
Buffy: —a little upset. Wouldn’t you?
Jenny: Hello and welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast where we are watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, and also episodes of Angel that are very important, one at a time, spoiler-free. Hello, I am Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: And I am Kristin Russo. I just made a noise like a ske—, a skex—
Jenny: Yeah, you sounded just like a skexy.
Kristin: Skexy. Uh, this week we are talking about Angel season 1, episode 8, ‘I will remember you’, because we consider it to be an episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer.
Jenny: Truly.
Kristin: Stay tuned at the end of this podcast every week for an original song, written by us, recapping the Angel episode we are discussing. That was on the fly, just changed the script. Did I do a good job?
Jenny: Ummm, incredible, I am floored! ‘I will remember you’ was written by David Greenwald and Janine Renshaw and directed by David Grossman, and it aired on November 23rd, 1999, right after ‘Pangs’.
Kristin: Wow, I can't believe you didn't just do your entire monologue [laughs].
Jenny: Right after I turned 18, 24 hours previously. Luckily for me, that 24 hours was not swallowed up by the powers that be—
Kristin: Spoiler alert.
Jenny: —and I remained 18 until next year. Sorry.
Kristin: [laughs] This is the one where "Angel must make a difficult decision regarding Buffy when a demon's blood makes him mortal once more."
Jenny: [gasps]
Kristin: First of all, this is the one where they lose a day, and Angel remembers and Buffy doesn't. It's also the one where a third person is sitting in the room with us, because I can't imagine how it would feel to be a host of Angel on Top and not be invited to come here to share this room with us.
Laura: I'd be a little upset
Kristin: Oh wow!
Laura: Oh hey guys!
Kristin: Oh hey, we didn't set that up, no, we didn't [laughs].
Laura: I'm not wearing all black unfortunately, but I am here and I am Laura Zak from Angel on Top.
Kristin: You are Laura Zak, it’s true.
Jenny: You did just pop in through the door when we least expected it.
Kristin: Yeah, we were just here discussing business, making sure Angel wasn't going to kill himself with a stake, and then blam!
Laura: No one in the entire office noticed until I uttered my first word.
Jenny and Kristin: [laughs]
Kristin: Wow, so we're all three here to talk about heartbreak.
Laura: What a delight. Brittany Ashley, I know, got to be a guest on this show back in the wee old days of pre-Angel on Top. And you know, I was jealous, but I also hadn't earned my stripes yet. Brittany is such a Buffering, Buffy expert, but I feel like I'm getting there, I'm catching up.
Kristin: Yeah, Brittany rolled up with like 47 props from the show and like, you know, books. So she had, yeah, she had, uh, her cred was intact, but you've definitely earned yours.
Laura: Thank you, I appreciate it.
Kristin: Now as the host, one of two hosts of an Angel, uh, podcast - the premier Angel podcast, I'll just call you guys that.
Jenny: [laughs] Wow.
Kristin: So, um, we're talking about this episode. Before we jump in, I just want to talk about a song that has been playing on the radio constantly, and the first line of it, I hear, I hear it and I'm like, "Oh my God, this is about Angel and Buffy."
NOTES: [Maroon 5 ‘Girls Like You’ plays] Spent 24 hours I need more hours with you...
Kristin: Then it, then it gets a little off topic after that, [laughing] but the first line really nails it. So not, I don't think anyone expected to hear Maroon 5 on our discussion of Angel today, but I've just been thinking about them every time the song comes on the radio.
Jenny: You know what I've been thinking about?
Kristin: What?
Jenny: What song was, uh, is, is, is, is, is ‘I Will Remember You’, the song—
Laura: Sarah.
Jenny: —by Sarah McLachlan, reigning queen of pain in this universe already, uh, in terms of aching, terrible, uh, emotionally traumatic song placement. Do you think that they... they wanted to license that song for this episode and did not for some reason?
Kristin: Maybe!
Laura: I wonder if it was already used in the sad, um, homeless animals commercials by then. ‘Cause they had, she had it playing over commercials… or was it that song?
Kristin: Yeah, uh, no.
Jenny: No, that’s— Isn't it ‘Arms of the Angel’?
Kristin: Yeah, that’s ‘Arms of the Angel’.
Laura: Oh, you’re right.
Jenny: That’s the ASPCA song.
Kristin: Do you think that since we didn't get the song in the episode itself, we could get Joanna Robinson to sing just like a little bit of it for us, for this episode?
Jenny: [laughs] I think we could, probably.
Laura: Also that song… Nope, I was about to say it's about heroin, but no, that's also ‘Arms of the Angel’.
Jenny: Wow, ‘Arms of the Angel’ — arms of the angel? An angel? Arms of [deliberately inaudible] angel — is about heroin?!
Laura: That was my understanding.
Jenny: Also this episode could have been called ‘Arms of the Angel’.
Kristin: ’Arms of the Angel’, yeah.
Laura: Wow.
Jenny: Or ‘Thighs of the Angel’—
Kristin: God.
Jenny: —because we definitely see Angel’s thigh, we can talk about it when we get there.
Kristin: That thigh, it, like, makes me feel a lot of things, like, confusing things, you know? I don’t know what I—
Jenny: Oh! Does it make you feel bi for Boreanaz?
Kristin: Bi for Boreanaz!
Laura: #biforboreanaz.
Kristin: I think it does! Okay, let's get into this episode, look at some clocks, shall we?
Jenny: Yeah, this is the fastidious attention to detail one displays when they are trying not to think about their life.
Kristin: I have in parentheticals "(Jenny)" because this is, you don't even do things like this when you're trying to distract yourself, this is just how you behave in a day-to-day fashion.
Jenny: Well, anything worth doing is worth doing well, and an unlevel desk is uncivilised.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Uh, you can't just have pencils and pens rolling willy nilly across your work surface. That’s just good office management. I'm, I like to see that Angel is not afraid to get his hands dirty in terms of, uh, making the office right and tight.
Kristin: Yes. Great.
Jenny: Thank you.
Kristin: Uh, also, shout-out to Cordelia's midriff in the scene.
Jenny: Is this the scene where— Is she already wearing the bandana?
Kristin: She’s wearing it the whole time.
Laura: The whole ep.
Kristin: And Cordelia jumps in explaining some of the stalkish behavior that we discussed in ‘Pangs’—
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: —and that you all discuss on your podcast all the time.
Jenny: Peeping and creeping.
Kristin: Yes, a lot of peeping, a lot of creeping.
Laura: I feel like Cordelia in this opening scene is sort of like the, a little bit like a lesbian best friend who, who it's like, does she have feelings? It's like she knows Angel better than he knows himself, like she's really giving the narrative of his interior world to Doyle, which on the one hand is sort of, like, obviously helpful for those rare people who had never seen an episode of Buffy to catch them up on the deal.
Jenny: Sure.
Laura: But it was the first moment that I was starting to see, just a glimmer of a question in my mind arose of like, "Oh, she's really paying close attention to Angel's feelings about Buffy."
Kristin: Yeah, she's very concerned about Angel in a lot of moments in this episode.
Jenny: She's also like, she's just, like, really not, um, pulling any punches. I feel like Angel, uh... Nobody is ever talking to him directly about any of his weird behavior. Like Cordelia and Doyle are always, like, around the water cooler, like, whispering to each other about, like, what's weird or, like, what's not cool or what they're worried about. But they're never, like, direct with him so much.
Kristin and Laura: Mm-hmm.
Jenny: But they— But she is here and um, that is welcome, uh, because somebody should— Well, I guess Buffy’s about to get here and tell him what's what, but it's nice that Cordelia gets there a little bit first.
Kristin: Yeah. Um, so then Buffy walks in.
Laura: Ahh, squeals.
Kristin: Could you imagine?! Like, you, if you're watching this in real time, you just finished watching ‘Pangs’. Like, the episode ended and it was like, "Oh, shit."
Laura: Moments ago.
Kristin: Moments ago, Buffy learned that Angel— Also, I'm sorry, I have like a whole thing here because Buffy was like, "I'm not going to be with my family for Thanksgiving, I want to throw Thanksgiving, I'm going to have all the Scoobies together"—
Jenny: And then she goes to her dad's the next day.
Kristin: —and then she— She— She wasn’t going to see her dad.
Laura: That’s bullshit.
Kristin: That’s some bullshit.
Jenny: Oh, you don't think she actually went see her dad?
Kristin: No, if she was going to see her dad, she would have mentioned it in ‘Pangs’.
Jenny: Sure, yeah.
Kristin: I am certain she would’ve.
Jenny: She just came to huff and puff.
Kristin: Yeah. She was like, I know what I'll do, last-minute trip to see dad, just so I can pop in on the old ex-boyfriend.
Laura: Mm-hmm, she's got the rest of the week off anyway, it's college vacation.
Kristin: Right, exactly.
Jenny: Also, how does everyone get the address to this place all the time?
Kristin: Well, ‘Angel Investigations’ — yellow pages?
Laura: I mean, there were some business cards out and about. Maybe she got a whole— Maybe Oz picked up one from—
Jenny: Oh yeah!
Laura: No, actually she probably does know from Oz.
Kristin: Yeah, that's true.
Jenny: Right, well how did Oz find out? You know, who probably has Angel’s address? Giles.
Laura: Yeah, for sure.
Jenny: Angel gave his address to Giles.
Kristin: Yeah, ‘cause of Angiles.
Jenny: [laughs] Uh-huh.
Kristin: So then we get to the credits.
Jenny and Laura: [laughs]
Kristin: And Jenny, uh, you and I, like, I've talked to Laura and Brittany about the credits, and you've talked to Laura and Brittany about the credits, but you and I have never sat in a room together and discussed an episode of Angel. So I just like wanted to give you a minute to air any of your grievances or applause for this beautiful, horrific thing.
Jenny: Oh God, everyone's in pain in Los Angeles! That's what these credits are about.
Kristin: Yeah, it’s a lot.
Laura: It's always nighttime.
Jenny: It’s always nighttime in Los Angeles. Everyone's always crying and looking at the night sky. Uh, and Angel's always like busting through doors.
Kristin: Yeah, busting through doors, vamping out but in that, like, good-hearted way that a vamp can vamp out. And um, I wanted to talk about the fact that this is the first time— So I've watched Angel the series, but the first time I watched it — the only time I watched it — was when Jenny had me watch it in tandem with Buffy, but not the way that we're doing our watch, the way that you're, like, supposed to do it chronologically.
Jenny: Well, for maximum overlap—
Kristin: Sure, but—
Jenny: —as a recommended... I'm just getting involved, carry on.
Kristin: But I will say that I was frustrated because there were oftentimes when I would have to watch like four or five episodes of Angel before I could get back to Buffy. And so—
Jenny: That’s no way to live.
Kristin: —this is the first time I'm like watching Angel, and I'm just like watching Angel to watch Angel. It's a good time. I just wanted to let everybody know. I never get to talk about Angel.
Jenny: So Buffy’s here and Angel looks so caught, he looks so guilty and scared. He looks like he's gonna throw up.
Kristin: Yeah, he's— I wrote "panicked puppy face LOL" — I laughed at myself, I think, for writing "puppy face".
Laura: His face alone really conveys how much he loves her ‘cause we don't see that puppy face come out elsewhere in the series.
Jenny: [gasps]
Kristin: Yeah, that's true, that's true. When we were doing the Angelwatch recently, that's, that's, that got brought up. That Angel’s been, like, just a detective—
NOTES: [DETECTIVE ANGEL jingle plays] Detective Angel!
Kristin: —until now.
Jenny: [guffaws]
Laura: Yeah, he, he keeps a level of stoicism, but you can tell anyway.
Kristin: He's the boss, you know, he’s gotta, he’s gotta keep it under control.
Jenny: He’s the boss. They also do this, ugh, this thing we all, where Angel’s like, "Well actually, it's kind of a long story", and Buffy’s like, "Your sidekick who gets vision saw that I was in danger and then you decided to come to Sunnydale", and he’s like "Apparently not that long". That is the third time that joke has appeared in the Buffyverse.
Laura: Wow.
Kristin: [laughs] Wow.
Jenny: It has happened two times on Buffy and now it has happened on Angel as well.
Kristin: Uh, there was a big debate, I feel like, when we did the Angelwatch of this episode, about Angel telling her or not telling her, like, that he went to Sunnydale.
Laura: Whether he should have or should have not.
Kristin: Yeah. So where does everybody here stand on that? Like, do you feel that he should have or you feel like he, he made the right call by not telling her?
Laura: I understand why she'd be upset, but I think the respectful thing to do was to not tell her. I feel like what he did was the equivalent of being the one who makes the decision to end a relationship and then not plaguing the other person with a bunch of "I miss you" texts.
Jenny: Totally!
Laura: Like, it's following through with your end, with boundaries that you've set.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: It's almost like he's 243 and she's 18.
Kristin: I am not sure that I agree. I— Like, I do, I— There, there are moments in this episode when they discuss it and he makes some points that I'm, like, here for, because it's not just, it's not just in ‘Pangs’, it's like then in this episode, like he, he makes, I think, like, three consecutive decisions without consulting her for the benefit of both of them and I'm like... I just don't know. Like, you... You want to believe that Buffy will be able to have, like, a well-reasoned conversation and that it doesn't need to be Angel who's making all these decisions. And Angel wasn't going to Sunnydale because he missed Buffy; he was going there because he was, he felt he was supposed to be there to help protect her. And it is her turf, like, it is— That's her city, it's like, it's like he came to her city and didn't even tell her and all of her fr— I don't know. I'm, I'm on the fence about it.
Jenny: I'm more concerned with, uh, like, people like Giles and Will— Like, everyone who’s in the middle—
Kristin: Knowing.
Jenny: —who knows. Um, that seems like... Well, first of all, it kind of seemed unnecessary, like why did he even need to get at Willow? Like—
Laura and Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: —contacting Giles, okay.
Kristin: Right.
Laura: Yeah, that's the part I felt the most conflicted about was that he had to tell all of her friends and he knows, therefore, inevitably she's going to find out. So it's not as simple as "I'm just going to swoop in, make sure she's okay and then leave"; it’s "I'm going to ingratiate myself with everyone that she's constantly around and make sure she knows I was there and not say hi to her". So that part I can see your point.
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah, I guess it's a little wiggly. It's a confusing thing, like, I definitely am— I don't feel, like, all one way about it, but I do kind of understand Buffy being like, dude, come on. Because she says, like, "I'm not in high school anymore", you know, and she's trying to, like, say, "I'm an adult person and, like, I can be a part of this relationship in whatever form it has without you needing to, like, take care of me".
Jenny: Sure. She’s also saying that, but she's also saying, "I'm not in high school anymore", and he's like, "I'm old enough to have gone to high school 23 times!"
Kristin: Wow, did you do the math on that?
Jenny: [sadly] No.
Kristin: Is that, is that some poor—
Jenny: No, it’s probably more like 12— I dunno.
Laura: I, I did like when she said, "A lot has happened in my life since you left." And then he says, "I know and I respect that", and I thought it was classy and respectful that he did not bring up Riley because I felt there were a couple beats in this episode where she was alluding to aspects of her life that encompass new potential love interests, and he chose not to address it.
Kristin: Yeah. He has been, he's been a bigger person than the Angel we knew in the Buffyverse, I think, right?
Jenny: Yeah, I think so.
Kristin: So then we get this like real cute line from— Well, I don't know if we're ready to go here yet, but once we cut out of the first conversation they have, back to Doyle and Cordelia, Cordelia’s like, "Let's get out of here, we have, like, enough time for a coffee and the director's cut of the Titanic. "
NOTES: [Intro to "My Heart Will Go On" by Celine Dion plays]
All: [laughs]
Kristin: Come on, it’s a great nineties reference! It’s already so long, guys, that's the joke!
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
NOTES: ["My Heart Will Go On" by Celine Dion continues to play] Every night in my dreams, I see you, I feel you...
Laura: And how did I go see it in the theaters so many times considering how long it was?
Kristin: Me. Too. Oh my God.
Laura: What a godsend to the parents of middle schoolers that was. Like, "Oh, you want to go do something where you're staying busy for two and a half, three hours? Sure."
Kristin: Go get some sour patch kids. Go sit and watch the Titanic again. Oh, the Titanic was a movie made for the teenage soul, you know? That really was chicken soup for the teenage soul, the Titanic .
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: Great. I'm just having fun with some nineties references.
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: So we're almost to one of my favorite lines in the whole episode, which is when— So Jenny and I discussed, in our taping of ‘Pangs’, that there was all of this—
Jenny: —spidey sensory?
Kristin: Spidey sense, right. And so we get to hear Buffy talk about the spidey sense directly—
Jenny: Oh god.
Kristin: —when she looks at Angel—
Jenny: Oh god!
Kristin: —dead in the eyes and says, "I feel you...inside."
All: [laughs]
Jenny: Aaaaaghhh!!!
Kristin: So, cool, cool, cool, cool, cool.
Jenny: Yeeeah...
Laura: Really only one way you can interpret that.
Kristin: Yep, yep, just the one, just one. And uh, luckily to break some of that sexual tension—
Jenny: —a teenage mutant ninja turtle just busts in.
Kristin: Yeah, it's like if a teenage mutant ninja turtle slept with a troll doll.
Laura: Mm-hmm.
Jenny: Wow — and then put on a samurai hat.
Kristin: Yes, exactly.
Jenny: Helm... Headgear... I'll do some research. Uh, I hate the character design of this demon.
Kristin: Wow. Please, say more.
Jenny: I think it looks so dumb. Is that wrong?
Kristin: Why? Like what about it offends you?
Jenny: I feel like its, like, facial situation... It just feels like, uh, some real
last-minute, uh, Party City: "What do they have?" It's November. It's second. Go grab something out of the extreme clearance bin that nobody wanted. I dunno, it just—
Kristin: You think it sat next to the werewolf costume from season—
Jenny: I think the werewolf costumes were flying off the shelves. I think the Mohra demon mask just sat and sat and sat.
Kristin: All right, well, I hope you didn't offend any Mohra demons with that.
Jenny: Yeah, I don't know what our Mohra demon listenership is like, but hopefully it's non-existent.
Laura: Honestly, if they're out there, they're probably like, "No, Jenny's right. It wasn't really realistic—
Jenny: Right, yes!
Kristin: Wow!
Laura: —to what we look like, it was a bad rendering."
Jenny: Yes, precisely! Thank you. So the Mohra demon comes in and they're like fi— And we see Cordelia and Doyle still leaving, and they're hearing crashing and banging, and Doyle’s like, "Shouldn't we go...?" And Cordelia’s like, "No, no, no, you don't want to get involved." So like, Cordelia is just, like, very comfortable with the idea of Buffy and Angel settling things by physically fighting each other.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: That seems pretty weird.
Kristin: Which— And also is not her experience—
Jenny: Yeah, when has she ever—
Kristin: —of them—
Jenny: —seen that?
Kristin: —in the— Well—
Laura: Only when—
Kristin: Graduation day.
Laura: —when he was Angelus. Well, I feel like she’s only seen them fight when he was, he was turn—, he was turnt.
Jenny: "Turnt"?!
Jenny and Kristin: [laughs]
Kristin: There's a meme there somewhere.
Jenny: Somewhere.
Laura: No, basically she's like, "Yeah, their relationship is just kind of domestic violencey. Like, no big deal, lol."
Kristin: Yeah, like, "Uhhh…"
Jenny: Wait, also, did Cordelia get sketched when he was Angelus?
Kristin: I don't think so. I don't think got drawn.
Jenny: Cordelia was not included in that.
Kristin: I don’t think so. But it's like, also, Cordelia sort of, I mean she uses the word "lore" in this episode. I feel like she's, like, taken her experience—
Jenny: She’s been privy to the— Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: —and she's put it in a little package. And she's also like... She's doing that thing that, like, you do when you know somebody and, and, like, the person you're with doesn't know them, where you're like, "Oh yeah, they just do this all the time. And like, we went to get ice cream at this place—" Like where you're, like, over-selling your knowledge of the things, I think. Um, and then—
Jenny: Then it's—
Kristin and Jenny: "Oops!"
Jenny: "Oops."
Laura: I hate when you just tumble after fighting a green demon and almost meet your lips to the lips of your co-warrior.
Jenny and Kristin: [laughs]
Jenny: "Co-warrior"! Hell yeah.
Jenny: Mmm, a close call, hmmm.
Kristin: And they, they really play, they really go hard in this episode on like "When just two cells of their beings touch—
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: —sparks fly and they can't contain themselves."
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah.
Kristin: So we get a little of that.
Jenny: Then Buffy’s like, "Do you have somewhere I can change—
Kristin: Yeah!
Jenny: —for the, for our sewer mission. I'll just put on this white, fuzzy sweater."
Laura: White sweater.
Kristin: [laughs]
Jenny: And she also, like, takes her hair down, right?
Kristin: Yes! She takes off her black sweater—
Jenny: Yeah, exactly what you want for fighting in a sewer.
Kristin: —and puts on a white sweater.
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: Yeah. And then down in the sewers, there's this whole, like, argument that I actually missed the first couple times where Angel's like, "You can put that stake away", and she's like, "Oh, you think it's better than your fightin’ axe?"
Jenny: Yeah, what? Everybody put everything away.
Kristin: I know. I think they're just trying to, like, give us all the elements of their relationship. Like, there's so much tension and, like, there's so much bitterness, and, you know...
Jenny: Right, right. "Hope she doesn't accidentally put that stake into me."
Kristin: Yeah, precisely.
Jenny: Myeah. Then we get a cool, uh, delightful moment of, uh, misinterpretation where Angel’s like, "I feel weird", and Buffy’s like, "Blehhh! I feel weird too, for all these reasons. It's like this and it's like this and I-I-I don't even know how I feel about it. It's, like, very confusing, dah, dah, dah, dah, dah." And then he's like, "No, no, no, no. I feel weird—"
Laura: "Spoiler alert: I'm not here to see my father!"
All: [laughs]
Jenny: "My dad doesn't even live in LA!"
Laura: And Angel’s like, "I meant that, like, this blood is crazy right now."
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah: "I'm definitely seeing trails from this demon blood."
All: [laughs]
Laura: But then he's like, "But no, no, no, no, no, for sure, let's process."
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: Yeah, he does get right on it, which I, like—
Jenny: He processes with the readiness of a seasoned lesbian.
Kristin: Yeah [laughs]. Agreed.
Laura: I'm glad someone else brought it up, ’cause I also saw a lot of queer behaviors in this episode, but I went hard on the lesbian analysis of, in our last episode, ‘Bachelor Party’ of Angel. So I was letting someone else take the lead on that.
Kristin: Listen, I think that's what the people want, Laura. So you just go as hard on that lesbian analysis as you need to.
Laura: I will go hard on that...lesbian...analysis.
Jenny and Kristin: [laughs]
Kristin: So this scene, right, is like, "We can't, we can't, we can't." And as they're saying how much they can’t—
Jenny: —they just keep stepping closer...and closer...
Kristin: —they're getting closer...
Laura: And this is so gay — the tortured verbal foreplay?
Kristin: Yes.
Laura: Like, "Let’s talk about how much we want to, but we shouldn't. We should make the right choice, but, like, we're so attracted to each other and like, isn't that attraction funny? And, like, we feel it, but we can't, and we know—" And just, like, on and on. It's just a big slow burn.
Kristin: I want everyone at home to know that I usually listen to Laura in my ears when you're talking, and now that you're sitting in front me, I am delighted to find out—
Laura: The gesticulation!
Kristin: —that there is so much shoulder-shimmying that happened.
Kristin and Jenny: [laughs]
Laura: Oh no! This is going to make me so self-conscious. It's like, I have a thing about swallowing pills where it's a very, uh, um, I can't let anyone watch me do it ’cause it's very active? It’s like a baby bird trying to get a worm down.
Kristin and Jenny: [laughs]
Laura: And I feel like me making points about these things is a similar kind of spasms.
Kristin: It’s passionate.
Jenny: I just want to say that I think it's because I do so much shoulder, uh, movement to support my language that I did not perceive you doing any shoulder movement at all.
Laura: You just saw me as completely still—
Jenny: Yeah, that's how I—
Laura: —’cause we were matching each other.
Jenny: —perceived you, exactly.
Kristin: Jenny was moving her shoulders in tandem so both of you—
Jenny: Like opposite?
Kristin: —appeared still to each other.
Jenny: Totally.
All: [laughs]
Laura: We’re moving— It's like choreography.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Laura: Just on the same plane.
Kristin: [laughs] The old synchronized shoulder shimmy.
Jenny: Hmmm, yes.
Kristin: [sighs] So, okay, so Angel— Whatever, Buffy’s like, "We do better apart", and then climbs the ladder into, like, a beam of sunlight.
Jenny: Oh! And Angel’s like, "I really don't want you going after that thing alone" — in direct conflict, may I say, with his (later in the episode) very stupid mortal attitude.
Kristin: Ugh. We're going to get a super big patriarchy jingle and we get to that part.
Jenny: I mean it's already here!
Kristin: Alright, you wanna go for it now?!
Jenny: Yes!
NOTES: [THE PATRIARCHY jingle plays] The patriarchy! [thunder clap, evil laughter]
Jenny: On what grounds, sir, do you not want Buffy going after that thing alone?
Kristin: Yeah, agree. He's being very...daddy, and I don't like it. It's not a good daddy, you know?
Jenny: I think I'm just confused on the breadth of...of daddy culture.
Kristin: Well there’s two daddies. There’s the sexy daddy and the patriarchal daddy. And this is the patriarchal daddy.
Jenny: Can’t we come up with a different name for the patriarchal one?
Kristin: "Dad".
Laura: What does "zaddy" mean?
Kristin: Ooh!
Jenny: Do not...know.
Kristin: Does that mean something?
Laura: I've, I've had, I've had, uh, queers tweet it at me.
Kristin: "Zaddy". Is it like the gender-neutral form of "daddy"?
Laura: I think so, ‘cause it was, it was tweeted at me—
Kristin: That makes sense.
Laura: —when I posted a picture of myself in a floral suit.
Kristin: Is it "zaddy" with an X or a Z?
Laura: Z-A-D-D-Y.
Kristin: It’s gotta be the gender-neutral...
Jenny: Well, there's also a Ty Dolla $ign song called ‘Zaddy’. The lyric— the opening lyrics are, uh, "She keeps callin’ me Zaddy / She keep on callin’ me Zaddy / She keep on callin’ me Zaddy / Dat lil baby got a fatty".
Kristin: Wow. You're getting a poem at the end of this episode, but apparently you're going to get one in the middle!
Jenny: In the middle! Hell yeah. "A slang term for a really handsome guy who is very appealing and looks really fashionable. He has to have swag and sex appeal and look sexy and attractive", according to Urban Dictionary.
Kristin: Do you think— I still think that—
Jenny: [gasps] Oh my God!
Kristin: Oh boy.
Jenny: The next one is: "When you want the D so much, you have to replace it with a Z."
Laura: Oh!
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: Whoa.
Laura: I still don’t understand.
Kristin: Whoa, whoa.
Laura: I mean, I understand what "wanting the D" means.
Kristin: I think that the queers out there did not look up anything in Urban Dictionary and I think they wanted a gender-neutral term for ‘daddy’. I don't know.
Jenny: I’m sorry, I— Does the D have to be— Okay. We don’t have to get into a whole thing.
Kristin: Jenny, please never be sorry about reading slowly the lyrics to a song called ‘Zaddy’.
Jenny: Uh, here to help, here to help. Angel finds the demon first.
Kristin: Oh!
Laura: The demon finds Angel first.
Jenny: Ohhh-kay.
Kristin: [laughs]
Laura: Now that Buffy is out of the way. I think the demon instinctively knew, "That lady's going to give me some trouble—"
Jenny and Kristin: Yeah, yeah.
Laura: "—I gotta wait til this dude’s alone."
Kristin: "I just want Broody McBroodyson down here."
Jenny: Oh yeah.
Kristin: So this guy… So the demon goes after Angel and he just puts his hand up...to defend himself.
Jenny: Have you ever seen him do that before or since?
Kristin: No, I have not. And why would you ever? And then gets—
Jenny: Oh no, a sword! Here's my bare palm!
Kristin: [laughs] And then of course, because his hand has been sliced, he is open to receive the blood.
Jenny and Laura: Oh!
Kristin: Oh yeah, I'm getting really Catholic over here, actually.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah. [chants] The mystery of faith!
Kristin: [laughs] He's open to receive the blood of the Mohra demon.
Jenny: [laughs] I don't care for the way that this is being said.
Kristin: The Mohra demon’s blood enters his bloodstream, or whatever.
Jenny: They have a blood pact, by accident.
Kristin: And then my note is: "Blood mixes. Angel has an orgasm and then—"
Jenny: Jesus!
Kristin: I mean, he does! Go back and watch it. He has at least a tiny one, at least a little bit of an orgasm.
Laura: I think this is a new idea for another Sexual Tension Award.
Jenny and Kristin: [laughs]
Laura: He gave him an orgasm.
Kristin: Did Angel get an orgasm?
Jenny: Angel and reanimation.
Kristin: Yeah. And then he's alive. Alive!
Jenny: And we know because he goes, "I'm alive."
Kristin: [laughs] That was so good, Jenny!
Laura: And we know for a few reasons — they wanted to make sure we knew. There’s also a loud heartbeat.
Jenny: Yeah, up to 11 with that heartbeat. That’s some stethoscopic heartbeat.
Kristin: They go really hard on the heartbeat throughout the episode, which— Okay, so can I, can I tell a brief story about my first girlfriend, uh, ever in life?
Laura: Yes.
Kristin: So like, you know, it's your, like, first love and you're just like, "I've never felt this way before", which is kind of how these two are feeling. Um, and she was in school at the time to be a physical therapist or something. So she was like in biology classes and she had just learned that the heartbeat, like, on the— I don't know which one's the in which one's the out, but it's systole diastole. And, like, one of our very first conversations was like— This is the gayest shit I've ever talked about in my life. 
Laura: I, I am riveted!
Kristin: But like, I would like listen to her heartbeat and she told me it was systole diastole, and so like that was like a thing that we would say to each other.
Jenny: Wait, was this Randy?
Laura: Oh my God!
Kristin: Yeah, it was Randy.
Jenny: Oh my God.
Kristin: But yeah, it was just a, a quite a gay romance thing for me.
Laura: Do you know, uh, Andrea Gibson?
Kristin: You know, I've heard, I've heard of her, yeah.
Laura: She, she's a poet, a queer slam poet, and in one of her poems, she talks about how, on a first date with a woman—
Kristin: Oh boy…
Laura: —she went to her house and the woman whipped out a stethoscope, and before they had their first kiss, she had Andrea put on the stethoscope so she could hear, and put it on her own heart, so she could hear what it sounded like in her heart when they had their first kiss.
Kristin: Whoa!
Jenny: That is the gayest shit I have ever heard! 
Kristin: I know, you just out-gayed me by a land— Andrea Gibson out-gayed— Well no, Andrea Gibson's girlfriend—
Laura: Yeah.
Kristin: —if they stayed, if they even became girlfriends.
Laura: They didn't, but she did— Obviously it was memorable. And she, and Andrea kind of left off with, like, the bit of advice that everyone should go purchase a stethoscope for that reason.
Kristin: Wow! I mean, you're really bringing a lot of elements there. There's like romance, but there's also, like, sexiness, like you got a stethoscope on, there's just... That's good on all angles.
Laura: Yeah. It's just like, "Feel how hot my biology is for you", you know?
Kristin: Yeah, yes.
Laura: Wow.
Jenny: God , that is gay!
Kristin: I love that, like, the art—
Jenny: Wow .
Kristin: You can that there’s like three queer women sitting around the table though because everybody was like, "That is so gay!", and then in the next breath we're like, "But that's kinda great."
Jenny: We’re like, "It’s really cool."
Laura: Yeah, we’re like "That is so gay — I love it! "
All: [laughs]
Kristin: [sighs] So anyway, back into the office, I guess?
Jenny: Yeah: "Did you do it with Buffy?"
Kristin: Yeah. And Cordelia—
Jenny and Kristin: [laughs]
Kristin: Well Cordelia—
Jenny: "I'm only asking, like, for safety reasons, I have no personal—, no skin in
the game, just wondering: did you do it with Buffy?"
Kristin: Oh yeah, terrified.
Jenny: "Did you do it, I-T it, with Buffy?"
Kristin: Did you ever say "do it"? Like, I mean, I did.
Jenny: Hell yeah!
Laura: Yeah!
Kristin: Okay, because it was like major—
Jenny: What else are you going to say?
Kristin: Nobody says it anymore!
Laura: I also said, "Did you have do its?"
Kristin: [gasps]
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: I like that, I'm going to pick that up.
NOTES: [Ad music starts]
Kristin: Today’s episode is brought to you by The Lady’s Guide to Petticoats and Piracy , the sequel to the New York Times bestseller, The Gentleman’s Guide to Vice and Virtue . The Gentleman’s Guide captured hearts and a Stonewall Honor with its rolicking tale of Monty, an 18th-century lord who embarks on a grand tour of Europe with his "best friend" — I did air quotes but you couldn’t see them — and not-so-secret crush, Percy. Fans also have loved Felicity, Monty’s sister, a lady who defies all 18th-century expectations and gets her own adventure in Lady’s Guide to Petticoats and Piracy. It’s filled with swashbuckling pirates, hidden identities, and a quest to sidestep marriage to instead become the doctor she’s always wanted to be. I will be honest with you, I have yet to read this, and I’m going to pick up both copies — The Gentleman’s Guide to Vice and Virtue and The Lady’s Guide to Petticoats and Piracy — because this sounds like a lot of patriarchy-smashing to me. Sounds pretty queer, sounds pretty cool, and you know that’s what we’re into
over here in the land of Buffering. So now you know: The Gentleman’s Guide to Vice and Virtue and The Lady’s Guide to Petticoats and Piracy are available wherever books or audiobooks are sold. I hope you enjoy, perhaps we can meet back here and talk about it later.
NOTES: [Ad music stops] [Episode resumes]
Kristin: Um, before, before Cordelia is afraid of Angel, she thinks Angel is dead, and I just want to bring this up because there's a pile of sawdust on the floor — or dust, I guess, but it looks like sawdust. And then she says to herself, "Oh, it's just the dust I forgot to sweep under the rug." So. Just FYI.
Jenny: [laughs] Also, that is a lot of dust, that is a substantial amount of dust to have accumulated in an office environment.
Kristin: I agree.
Jenny: Angel’s doing his share, leveling the desks, setting the clocks. [Kristin laughs] Cordelia could maybe... I don't know.
Kristin: She's mad, though. She doesn't think that her job should entail cleaning the office. And you know—
Jenny: Doyle should clean!
Kristin: —I have to agree with Cordelia on this one. I don't think her job is—
Jenny: Somebody should fucking clean. That’s all. Whoever!
Kristin: She’s doing a lot: she’s making shitty coffee, going on dates, you know?
Jenny: But is it her that's making the shitty coffee?
Kristin: Yeah, I think so.
Jenny: Ah.
Laura: We've also seen in previous episodes of Angel that there's a little bit of, like, a, uh, gratitude crisis going on.
Jenny: Right.
Laura: She doesn't really feel appreciated.
Jenny: Right .
Laura: She doesn't feel fully appreciated or fully compensated, so—
Jenny: Right, right, right, right.
Laura: —it would make sense that she would phone it in a little bit with—
Jenny: Sure.
Laura: —these tasks.
Kristin: Totally. Cut to Doyle, figuring out that Angel is human, and walking over to him sexily and taking his— Speaking of taking his pulse and listening to heartbeats!
Jenny: Oh yeah!
Kristin: This is pretty sexy. I know that you guys are doing a close watch on the Doyle "bi for Boreanaz" relationship, but um, this is really cranked up.
Laura: Like honestly, in my memory of this scene, Doyle takes Angel's hand in his palm and he, like, creeps up his hands, [Jenny laughs] like makes his two fingers into little legs and slowly creeps it up—
Kristin: He does!
Jenny: [simultaneously] Oh my God, what?!
Laura: —to where he feels his pulse. That's, I think, just facts.
Kristin: He basically—
Jenny: [simultaneously] That’s what happens?!
Kristin: I mean, he— It— There's not a walk, but there is like, his finger, like, slides—
Jenny: His fingers are like trailing up Angel’s wrist.
Kristin: He doesn't just like put his fingers on his wrist; his fingers slide down Angel’s palm to Angel’s wrist.
Jenny: [whispers] Wow.
Kristin: It's real sexy. Just sayin’.
Laura: Just reading some braille.
Kristin: Um, and then Angel gets hungry.
Jenny: Riiight. And here's something I'd like to address, in whatever detail we're
comfortable with: Angel goes straight for Pop Tarts, which... Okay, so the last time the Angel ate food and felt it was, like, 220 years ago, there was nothing even closely resembling a Pop Tart available to him. Why? I mean, I know it's just there, it's like the closest thing, but like... I don't know.
Kristin: It’s like shiny and iced. Wouldn’t you go for it first, even if you didn't know what it was? It's like the whole deal— Like, the whole design of a Pop Tart is that you want to eat it because it looks good. That's why people were eating Tide Pods, you know?
Jenny: Were people actually eating Tide Pods?
Kristin: Jenny.
Jenny: I mean… [Kristen laughs] All right. Anyway! He eats some Pop Tarts, he eats some other stuff, just like whatever's around — yogurt.
Kristin: Yeah, he eats Pop Tarts with abandon. Without abandon? What's the phrase?
Jenny: With reckless abandon.
Kristin: Apples, a sandwich that's just willy nilly in the fridge—
Jenny: Yeah, whose leftover sandwich is that?
Kristin: And then—
Laura: Chocolate.
Kristin: Yeah, and his giggle [Jenny laughs] when he eats the chocolate is to be remembered. I will remember Angel giggling [Jenny laughs] when he eats chocolate.
Jenny: Ah, yes, according to Wikipedia, the place with all the information, uh, cacao, uh, dates back to 1000 BC or earlier. That's BC. That's, uh—
Laura: Before Christ.
Kristin: Before Cordelia.
Jenny: Before Cordelia.
Kristin and Laura: Ohhh, heyyy!
Jenny: The word chocolate entered the English language from Spanish in about 1600. So in conclusion, I guess Angel maybe has had chocolate before, although don't you think, like, in Dublin, you know, 243— 263 years ago now, uh, chocolate would have been like a, like a delicacy, like something not available to, uh, yeah, the drunken louts lazing about in the local tavern?
Kristin: Yeah, he probably never had an appreciation for chocolate before.
Laura: And they probably didn't have milk chocolate.
Kristin: Definitely not, right?
Jenny: Oh yeah, what's the evolution of milk chocolate and dark chocolate? [Laura and Kristin laugh] I'm not going to look it up, I'm not gonna look it up, I'm so sorry for looking anything up.
Kristin: Okay. Angel says to Cordelia, "Go tell her that I got the demon, but don't tell her that I'm human, because I gotta figure out if this is gonna stick." Once again — sorry, but like stop! I just—
Laura: Making the decisions for her.
Kristin: I just— It’s like a little too ma— It's like a few too many for me. Like I understand it's, like, wiggly…
Jenny: He’s just trying to smooth out the rollercoaster that is the two of them existing near each other and also—
Kristin: I understand—
Jenny: —this other shit going on.
Kristin: —but he just is very, like— He always acts like he knows best and like, I understand he's lived more life, but also like she's the Slayer, she's lived a lot of fucking life too. I just…
Jenny: Well you know what's way more important than what you're talking about?
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: Angel seeing his hair for the first time. [Laura and Kristin laugh] He's like, "This is what it's been doing when I've been doing whatever I've been doing to make it look this way" — and then, spoiler for the rest of the series, he continues to do it. He elects to continue to do that to his hair after he's seen what it's doing for the first time.
Laura: I think because he became a little bi for Boreanaz, for himself.
Jenny and Kristin: [laughs]
Kristin: He did! There was like, the music— If there was a soundtrack to bi for Boreanaz, it's the music that plays when Angel sees himself in the fucking window pane. It's like so... He's like, [angelic vision voice] "Ahhhhh!", like—
Jenny: Truly.
Laura: Did you guys see that, um, interview with Cher that was posted—
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: No.
Laura: — where she says that she loves being Cher, but she's not so much a Cher fan.
Kristin: Yeah, she’s not a Cher fan.
Laura: I feel like that was a little bit of an Angel here. He's like, "I kinda like being this handsome guy, but I also take issue with myself."
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: That is a lot for me to think about.
Kristin: Jenny didn't know that quote yet and clutched her heart when hearing it. It’s very—
Jenny: I did. I have a lot of room for Cher feeling that way.
Kristin: Yeah. It's very human, it’s very human. It's very human of Cher. Cher’s a
person. Celebrities: they're just like us. [Jenny laughs] So then we meet the Powers That Be!
Jenny: Uh, those are actually not the Powers That Be, those are—
Laura: —Oracles.
Jenny: —the Oracles, or the hot incest twins. Some very strong Lannister vibes coming off of them.
Kristin: Hell yes.
Laura: Oh, I didn't think they were incest-y. I thought that was a little twink and I thought that she was just... I don't know, I just didn't see them hooking up together.
Kristin: Uhhh...
Jenny: [simultaneously] I don't know. I feel like, I feel like they shared a womb, and now they share everything.
Laura: Oh.
Kristin: Yeah. I'm there for that.
Jenny: [laughs] You’re "there for that"?!
Kristin: I mean, I'm there for that reading, but also, sure!
Jenny: Yeah, I mean, I'm just here for the reading. I'm not necessarily here for the activity, but also I didn't think about how it might horrify someone like Laura [Kristin laughs] for me to just wing that out speculatively. Sorry, Laura.
Kristin: Oh, but I love these two, I love these two, I forgot about them.
Jenny: Yeah, they’re so great.
Kristin: Yeah, they're really fantastic. I don't know, I don't know the actors’ names, but we'll look ‘em up and find out.
Jenny: Love seeing, uh, creatures that have no… That are just like wholly unconcerned with what we've got going on—
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: —on this mortal coil.
Kristin: Yeah. They're just like "Silly...human", I guess "human" in this case, since Angel’s now a human.
Jenny: I love how she’s like "Oh, time!"
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah. "I love time!"
Jenny: "How whimsical!"
Kristin: [laughs] Uh, so then... Like Angel gets thrown out after he finds out that he is, in fact, mortal and this is for real.
Jenny: Yeah, released from his fealty. I have a bone that I wish to pick.
Kristin: Yes, please, pick upon the bone.
Jenny: Angel’s all like— Well, Angel flies out, and uh, apparently no time has elapsed where, where Doyle is standing.
Kristin: Yes, Doyle — "Oops!" — catches him.
Jenny: And he's like, "Oh yeah, you just went in this very moment. Look at your watch" — as though Angel had looked at his watch before he went in. [Kristin laughs] That was just so we could talk about the gift policy. Annoying.
Kristin: Yeah, solid call. And then he's basically like—
Jenny: "Oh my God!"
Kristin: "What do you really—" Like, "What do you want?"
Jenny: Yeah, so he’s like, "So the question is, what do you want?"
Kristin: Yeah. Cue—
Jenny: "Is it—"
Laura: "—to go to the pier?"
Jenny: "—a small Irishman?"
Kristin and Laura: [laughing] Ohhhh!
Jenny: You guys!
Laura: That reading is so sweet!
Kristin: [simultaneously] Aww, poor Doyle! But then his heart breaks moments later when Angel’s like, "You’re right!"
Jenny: Angel’s like, "What I really want to do is kiss Buffy in the motherfucking sunlight in front of the Santa Monica pier after I walk out from this little walkway of trees."
Kristin: It's so dramatic! Also, I feel like, what pressure on, on David to walk... Like, they're like, "Okay, the camera's going to be on you for like a solid minute and
you are walking in the sunlight for the first time: go!" Like, I would be like, "Aaagh!"
Laura: "About to kiss the love of your life—"
Kristin: Yes! "—underneath the Santa Monica pier." Well, on top of it, by it, side by it.
Laura: Whatever he did, I ate it right up because I have now watched this episode several times and I get chills every single one.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: It's so good. It's so good. I have in all caps, "What an entrance! What a kiss!" And then, "Sexual Tension Award?" — but we'll get there, we’ll get there.
Jenny: Also, where is— You guys have talked about this, I think, on Angel on Top: where is the office?
Laura: Downtown LA.
Jenny: Cool. And then Santa Monica is just—
Laura: And they go to Santa Monica a whole lot.
Jenny: —a hop and a scamp, just...
Laura: Yeah — "Catch ya over there later!"
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Well, maybe if you take the sewers, it's a lot quicker.
Jenny: No traffic in the sewers.
Laura: Oh, good point, good point.
Jenny: You think he's got a little sewer, like, jet ski?
Kristin: Oh! [Jenny laughs] I fucking hope so. Listen, Scoobies listening who are Photoshop-savvy, please render us—
Jenny: Let’s get a detective…
Kristin: [simultaneously] —Angel on— [laughs] Yeah. So, we go back to the office. And a thing that I noticed the last time we watched this, and noticed again, is that they are growing plants in their water cooler at the office.
Jenny: [laughs] Is that true?
Kristin: Yeah. There's just a full plant just sitting in the top of the water cooler, using it— Like, it's like, do they use the water cooler and also the plant uses the water cooler?
Jenny: Gotta get a good look at that.
Kristin: Yeah, it’s interesting.
Jenny: That's very interesting.
Kristin: So…
Jenny: Then some truths are told.
Kristin: Yeah, and Cordelia says "groiny".
Jenny: Cordelia says "groiny".
Laura: [simultaneously] Oh, never needed to hear that, nope.
Kristin: Love you, Cordelia, but I could take a pass on that.
Jenny: Doyle thinks that Cordelia is jealous.
Kristin: Right, of Buffy.
Jenny: Hmmmm.
Kristin: Yeah, and I mean...the reading is not totally off.
Jenny: And then Cordelia is all like, "The forbidden love of all time — apart for months — tea and crackers" — and then we cut to tea and crackers.
Kristin: Yup. Uh, Buffy and Angel just downstairs, sipping tea. Angel’s sure does have a lot of—
Jenny: Yo.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: There is a... I don't know if you noticed, but if you're looking at Buffy and Angel sitting at the kitchen table, to the right, set into the wall, is like a fucking Freddy Krueger-style grate — like, furnace grate. And there are— You don't see the flames, but you see like the flickering red glow of implied flames inside this just random fucking furnace grate in his kitchen.
Kristin: What?! Oh my God, he was like, "It doesn't come with a fireplace, but [all laughing] it does have this open furnace."
Jenny: Oh my God, yes! Yes. He found a way [Kristin laughs] to have open flame—
Kristin: I did not see that.
Jenny: —in his basement dungeon apartment.
Kristin: But it sounds like Angel Fire-watch is back with us in season four.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah. Angel Immolation-watch, please.
Kristin: Yeah, that's what it's called, that's right. Uh…
Laura: And this scene is basically an escalation of the verbal foreplay.
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: Oh yeah.
Laura: It’s like, "Now maybe we could have sex, but like…"
Jenny: "We shouldn't, still."
Laura: "...wouldn’t it be worth the wait to make sure?"
Kristin: "Yeah, let's just wait. Let’s just wait."
Laura: Why?!
Jenny: [laughs] Just fuck!
Kristin: And Buffy is kind of on the "Let's just fuck" page.
Jenny: 100%.
Kristin: I mean she's like playing along, but she thinks she's— I think she thinks she's playing along because obviously they're going to have sex, and then when it gets to the point where she's like, "This dude is serious?!"
Laura: "Oh, you're serious?"
Jenny: "What kind of dude—"
Kristin: "What the fuuuck?!"
Jenny: Weeeell, this is, I think, a place where their age difference maybe shows a little bit.
Kristin: Oh God.
Jenny: Literally, let me remind you—
Kristin: I think their gender difference shows a little bit.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Shut— Listen, excuse me. [Kristin laughs] Wait, really? I think it's like the reverse. ‘Cause Buffy’s like, "Let’s fuck, let’s fuck, let’s fuck", and Angel's like, "I think we should wait until we’re ready."
Kristin: I just mean his like "I know better than— I know best."
Jenny: Oh, okay. But consider—
Kristin: "Daddy knows best."
Jenny: Consider— Okay, consider that— Consider— Okay. What if you really like some kind of psychedelic drug, right? You do it, and then—
Laura: [sarcastically] Trying to get in the space where I can understand what you mean.
Kristin: [sarcastically] Yeah, I can’t imagine it, but...
Jenny: Use your imagination! [Kristin laughs] You love tripping face.
Kristin: Oh my God, but you don't like— [laughing] Laura’s face! [Jenny and Laura laugh] Laura is tripping face currently from you saying "tripping face". "Tripping face", Jennifer!
Jenny: [laughing] Could just stay with me for a minute, for the analogy?! You love tripping face! But the last time you tripped face, you killed a bunch of people! Including… And really, really hurt the people that you care most about.
Kristin: Sure.
Jenny: So, and then you're like... Then you find out later that you could potentially— You've been altered and your, your biological makeup could accept the psychedelics without adverse consequences.
Kristin: Sure.
Jenny: Wouldn’t you— Don't you think it would be worthwhile to— Is this a bad analogy?
Kristin: No, it's great.
Laura: It’s great.
Kristin: It's very good. I agree with, I understand.
Jenny: The last time they boned, he killed a bunch of people. I understand. I am 100% on board for him being, uh, cautious.
Kristin: Yes, yes. But luckily, Buffy lays one finger on him—
Jenny: One finger! And then it’s just [Jenny makes explosion noise].
Kristin: And then you know what it is, that I didn't realize, and now this is like the fourth time I've watched this episode, like, in sequence, and this is like a replay.They're redoing ‘Graduation Day’—
Laura: [gasps] With the fridge?
Kristin: With the, well, the table, like when, when he's, um, drinking her in ‘Graduation Day’, there's — remember all those copper plates and bowls?
Jenny: Oh yeah!
Kristin: And they like toss them all off the table, and they do the same thing here, which took me a minute to realise!
Jenny: Here’s the thing. As a dude who has recently remembered the—
Kristin: It sounded like you were talking about yourself. You were like, "As a dude", and I was like, "Okay, right, sure, sure."
Jenny: As a dude who has recently reacquainted himself with the excitement and value of food, I think that it is problematic.
Kristin: Oh please, it was like four apples.
Jenny: No it’s like a whole—
Laura: Wait, finish your sentence.
Jenny: It’s like a whole table full of shit that he's like, "Let me throw all of this shit across the floor." There's two—
Kristin: Sounds like somebody who's never thrown anybody across a table with food, you know what I mean?
Jenny: There are at least two beds! It's not a huge apartment. There's a bed like in the room next to the kitchen.
Laura: Also that was boiling water, it was tea!
Kristin: It’s the throes of passion, that’s the whole point!
Jenny: [simultaneously] Oh God!
Kristin: You don't think about the food! You're just thinking about the passion.
Laura: To be fair, that type of scene where like, "Now we're against the fridge! Now we're on the table!" — like, I definitely, when I, I think I had seen enough scenes like that in adolescence that when I started actually having sex, I was like, "Wow, there's a whole lot less slamming. [Kristin and Jenny laugh] I guess I'm just not, like—"
Jenny: "—doing it right."
Laura: "—hot enough!"
Kristin: So much less wasted food when you're actually having sex. Um, so then they do move.
Laura: And I'm sure that he— you can take this out, but — I'm sure he gets to taste some other new flavors.
Kristin: Wow! Wow. Wow. Wow. Not to steal your line, Jenny, but Jenny is speechless so I'm just going to give voice. Jenny is frozen!
Jenny: Uhhhhhhhhh…
Laura: That’s where I thought you were going with the, like, "He’s so into food and tastes now that why didn't he start with…"
Kristin: Solid point.
Laura: [laughing] I thought you said "Salad point"! I'm going to stop.
Kristin: [laughs]
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: So I mean we're not going to stop ’cause it only gets sexier now we're in the bedroom with ice cream.
Jenny: Well, first he—
Kristin: Angel in the bedroom with ice cream.
Jenny: First he scurries across the apartment past conveniently placed things that are at exactly dick-height.
Kristin: Wow.
Laura: [laughs]
Jenny: He's, he's naked at the fridge. [All laugh] Then he scuttles, uh, past some, I don't know, banisters or something that just happen to conveniently cover his modesty or whatever the f—.
Kristin: Huh? Sure. [Laura sighs] Um, but then we see the thighiest thigh.
Jenny: And here's the thing: he must, he— It's clear that he's been human ’cause he has a bruise on his thigh.
Kristin: Right. And on his face.
Jenny: Guys, I think he just happened to have a br— I, I don't think that was— I don't think they did that on purpose.
Laura: Just like Sarah Michelle Gellar happened to have a finger injury ’cause she had a band-aid on the whole episode.
Jenny: Ah, maybe they were wounded in the same event.
Kristin: Maybe they were wounded filming that sex scene.
Jenny: Jesus, yeah, that's probably where got a bruise.
Laura: The fridge! He probably slammed— She probably got singed on the fucking boiling water from the shattered tea kettle. [Jenny laughs]
Kristin: Um, so let's just all take a moment of silence for Buffy licking ice cream off of the pecs of Angel.
Jenny: Uhhhhhh again uhhhhhh…
Kristin: That wasn't silence, but we'll take it, Jenny. [laughs]
Laura: That's Jenny's form of silence. [Jenny laughs]
Kristin: [laughing] Version of silence.
Laura: "Uhhhh, can I get an E minor?" [Kristin and Jenny laugh]
Kristin: Oh, okay. So Cordelia and Doyle are at the fucking bar. Doyle has a vision: the demon’s not dead. Of course the demon’s not dead ’cause nothing can ever be good in Sunnydale, or Los Angeles.
Jenny: Wait, wait, wait wait. First, Cordelia’s like really pissed about her impending
unemployment. And she says, "I'm good for exactly two things: international superstardom, or helping a vampire with a soul rid the world of evil." I feel like that was worth mentioning. That is all.
Kristin: Do you want to give her her jingle?
Jenny: Do it!
NOTES: [CORDELIA jingle plays] Cordelia, I love you Cordelia, you’re perfect Cordelia!
Jenny: Then Buffy’s [very high-pitched voice] listening to Angel’s— Oh, sorry, the vision, yeah. Doyle has a vision, whatever.
Laura: Okay. "Something bad is coming", whatever, whatever. Back to the bed!
Jenny: Back to bed!
Kristin: [laughs] Systole diastole, am I right?
Jenny: Yeah. Except the way that Buffy says it is, "Thump thump, thump thump, thump thump." Layman's terms.
Kristin: Yeah, that’s the way I would have said it too. "This is the first time I've ever felt like a normal girl, falling asleep in the arms of her normal boyfriend," she says, one beam of sunlight cast upon her Slayer face.
Jenny: Also, for the, for anyone who's seen the episode before ever, it's really ragged for, to take in the dialogue that comes right before that, which is "I want to stay awake so this day can keep happening", and Angel's like "Sleep, we’ll make another one like it tomorrow."
Kristin: I just got full body chills and I have seen it so many times!
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: But it still happens to me.
Jenny: Aaaahhh!
Kristin: So then Angel queues up the second patriarchy jingle of the episode.
NOTES: [THE PATRIARCHY jingle plays] The patriarchy! [thunder clap, evil laughter]
Jenny: This is not just pat— This is just stupid.
Kristin: It really is just st— Well, I mean, yeah, as is the patriarchy. But I agree, it's really, really fucking stupid and…
Jenny: It's so stupid! It's so... There's just, like, no— There's no justification for it. Doyle is in the right, Angel is very, very, very stupid. Also, while they're talking, you guys, I don't know if you noticed this, but while they're talking in front of the doorway that leads into the kitchen, you can see the kitchen table has been completely overturned.
Kristin and Laura: Oh!
Jenny: It's on its side. Yeah, that's right. They fucked that table onto its side.
Kristin: Fucked that table right to the side, okay! Um, so one thing I do want to
say for Angel: there's a line that I like where, um, he says, "not for the world" would he wake her up, which, just... I know it's stupid, but it was nice.
Laura: I do think it's interesting that this is what happens when he becomes a mortal man, because I do think a lot of what goes into misogynistic, patriarchal views is in some ways an intimidation of the full scope of the power of women and femininity, should it run wild and, like, a fear of that. And it's almost like when Angel was a vampire, he was more, like, respectful of Buffy as an equal, and now—
Kristin: Yeah.
Laura: —he's like, "That is too much for you to be this amazing."
Kristin: Yeah, like, "You can't, you can't, you can't fight all of my demons. I have to be able to take charge." No, dude, she's the chosen one, let her fight. So Cordelia is selling all of the furniture in the office.
Jenny: Love it — including that Byzantine axe.
Kristin: Yep, she's going to make her own...retirement fund. What does she call it? A settlement?
Jenny: Uh, a severance package
Kristin: Severance package. Uh, and then Buffy and Cordelia get into like a classic Buffy and Cordelia like, "Haven't you ever thought about how this might affect me?" And Buffy's like, "No!" [all laugh]
Jenny: Like everyone's regressing all at once!
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah, it's true! Well, they haven't seen each other. Um, but, but Cornelia has a really important line in this scene where she says, "You can't have everything. You can't have Angel and save the world."
Jenny: Dark.
Kristin: Which is like, that's the core of the whole episode, that it's true. Like she— This— So I just watched a little series called Killing Eve . Have you seen Killing Eve?  
Laura: Oh, I ate it right up.
Kristin: Me too. Jenny hasn't seen it yet, so no spoilers for Jenny, but she's about to find her destiny.
Laura: I'm so excited for you.
Kristin: I mean you're going to lose your mind. But something that I don't think is spoilery about it is that like in their, in their chosen profession, it's basically like they kinda can't have both. Like you can't, you can't do this crazy thing in life and also be expected to maintain a family and love and relationship. And that's kind of where Buffy's at. Like, can she, will she ever be able to have love? Like real, just like familial love? Probably not. We'll see. We've got three more seasons.
Laura: But it is— And it especially applies to she and Angel because they both kind of have their destiny — two branches of destiny in a parallel direction.
Kristin: Totally. Totally. [sighs] So back down into the bellows of something?
Jenny: Well, uh, Doyle and Angel have of course tracked the Mohra demon to like a salt factory or whatever the f—
Kristin: [laughing] A salt factory!
Jenny: Whatever that is. ’Cause the Mohra demon conveniently needs large quantities of salt to live. And, um, Angel's just getting his ass handed to him. But thankfully, uh, Cordelia spilled the beans to Buffy about like where Angel was, and then she shows up and saves him.
Kristin: And this is also… This reminded me a little bit— I know they're just like these classic Angel-Buffy scenes, like ‘Becoming’, ‘Graduation Day’, whatever. And like Buffy with the sword, specifically, with Angel, reminds me of ‘Becoming’.
Jenny: Oh yeah!
Kristin: ’Cause there's like, you know what, she only fights with a sword like a couple times. It's not her weapon of choice.
Jenny: Yeah, and she only says, "You hurt my boyfriend" once.
Kristin: Exactly.
Jenny: And it's now.
Kristin: [laughing] And it's right now.
Laura: Which is amazing that that's how we establish that they're boyfriend-girlfriend. Like it wasn’t even a question—
Jenny: Well, she also, when she's laying in bed, she says like, "A girl—"
Laura: Oh right, "—in the arms of a man"
Jenny: "—of her boyfriend", "my normal boyfriend".
Kristin: "Normal boyfriend."
Laura: Gotcha, okay.
Jenny: Right, and nobody— But also like that was just like said.
Laura: So that’s like super cute that she's like looking for opportunities to be like—
Jenny: "—my boyfriend, my boyfriend, my boyfriend!"
Laura: It’s like what I've heard of people who get married and then, like, overuse the terminology of "wife and husband" or "wife and wife", or whatever, right after. It’s like, "Yeah, what's up, wife?" [Kristin laughs]
Jenny: Oh God.
Kristin: Um, the Mohra demon has a very important line. I'd like to play the sound clips so we can actually hear the Mohra demon speak
NOTES: [Clip from episode plays]
Mohra demon : Together, you were powerful; alone, you are dead.
Jenny: Just saying, he— They're together when he says that. They're together right then.
Kristin: But he means together as, as warriors.
Laura: As warriors, co-warriors.
Kristin: Exactly. He doesn’t mean as people—
Jenny: Ugh, "co-warriors".
Kristin: Co-warriors.
Jenny: Fine!
Laura: Wow, there's a lot of similarities between the Mohra demon and Cordelia in this episode. [Jenny laughs]
Kristin: [laughing] Yeah, they’re on the same page.
Laura: Like, a really missed opportunity that they didn't get a meet-cute — very, like, similar sensibilities and like, view of the world.
Jenny: Truth-tellers.
Kristin: Plus I’m sure she'd love that jewel on his forehead, you know.
Jenny: Absolutely.
Kristin: Uh, so then, uh, Angel's like, "The million eyes! I get it: it's the jewel! Hit the jewel!"
Jenny: Then Buffy winds back with her mace, and then she strikes that gem and it goes, Clink ! [Kristin laughs] It’s a pretty silly sound. And then the demon, uh, is—
Kristin: —perishes.
Jenny: —perishes.
Kristin: Uh, I want to say before we move out of the fight scene that I thought this was a fucking killer fight scene. Like the moves that Buffy has with the Mohra demon when they're fighting, there's like a move where she steps on his, like, nunchuk? It's not a nunchuk — what do you call that like...chain, ball on a chain…?
Jenny: Is that not a mace?
Kristin: Oh, is that what it's called?
Jenny: I think so.
Kristin: Yes, that! She steps on that, and like punches— It's just good shit. Good moves for Buffy and Sophia Crawford all around. Good work, everybody.
Laura: Do you feel like the transitions are extra harsh this episode? Like they're showing off for Buffy or something?
Kristin: Maybe!
Laura: They feel like really—
Kristin: Really intense?
Laura: —super aggressive, more so than I—
Jenny: Well, maybe they feel really aggressive because this episode has the most emotional content of any Angel episode up to this point. Maybe.
Kristin: Oh, that's true. Well, should we go back to the Oracle, with the dynasty— Ching dynasty 1811 vase?
Jenny: Wait, can we first talk about how immediately post-fight...al, Angel’s like crumpled on the ground, like in Buffy’s lap, breathing... You know, it's like, we're meant to be like, "Oh, mortal Angel is like really busted up," but he breathes that heavily, like pretty much all the time. Whenever anything upsetting, sad, painful,
disturbing — like anything happens and he's like: [exaggerated deep breathing]
Kristin: It's a good thing he's been practising breathing this whole time, [Jenny and Kristin laugh] so he’d have the skill for now.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah. So back to the Oracles. Angel had the decency to bring a vase this time.
Kristin: Yeah, very nice vase.
Jenny: Ching dynasty.
Kristin: He's like, "I'm, I brought this Pottery Barn vase [all laugh] for you." Uh, we learn, "Buffy will die," says the Oracle.
Jenny: I just feel like this could all be a little more definitive and we would all feel better about it and Buffy would feel better about— Like everybody could feel better.
Kristin: I agree. Like all she says is, "Buffy will die." She doesn't say—
Jenny: She says, "Sooner than most." She says, "What happens to all mortals, but sooner than most."
Kristin: But she’s the Slayer, we know this.
Jenny: Right but it's like, "sooner than most" could be...45.
Kristin: Right, exactly. And Slayers die young, that's just the, that's just the way it goes. Anyway, Angel's like, "Take my life", and then the lady Oracle—
Jenny: Woooooooh! She’s like, "He is not a lower being!"
Kristin: Yes, right!?
Jenny: [engine starting noise]
Kristin: I agree, I agree. I think we might need to add them into the running—
Jenny: Oh yeah, yeah.
Kristin: —because I wrote, "Lady Power has a big crush on Angel." She’s like—
Jenny: [laughing] "Lady Power"! I love that you nicknamed her "Lady Power".
Kristin: [laughing] That's her name: Lady Power.
Jenny: And Twink Power.
Kristin: And this is when, uh, the writers in the room decided they would slay us all because, um, they're going to take back the 24 hours, and not only are they going to take back the 24 hours, but Angel alone will carry—
Jenny: Dude.
Laura: —the memory of this day.
Kristin: Ooof.
Jenny: And Lady Power is like, "Can you carry that burden?" And Angel's like, "Bitch, I was born to carry this burden!" [Kristin and Laura laugh]
Kristin: "Bitch, have you seen these forehead creases? [Jenny laughs] I've been brooding since before you were born!"
Laura: He’s like, "Hold my beer", [Jenny laughs] and then takes out Buffy seasons one through three. [Jenny and Kristin laugh]
Kristin: [sighs] So...it happens. It is done.
Jenny: It's terrible. It’s so terrible.
Kristin: And in a real twist of the fucking knife, there's like four minutes by the time he gets back to the apartment.
Jenny: Yeah, that is particularly…
Laura: Maybe even less.
Jenny: ...brutal.
Kristin: Right? It’s like, there’s no time. And here's the big question I have, and I had it— I screamed it during the Angel- watch and I will scream it every time I
watch the fucking episode: why the fuck does he tell her? Why does he tell her?
Jenny: Like when she had to kill him at the end of season two, she had the decency to be like, "Close your eyes", and then kiss him—
Kristin: "Give us a kiss."
Jenny: —and then [sword sound].
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: Why not just...
Kristin: Why not just—
Jenny: —make out and then—
Kristin: [simultaneously] make out until poof, she's back in the fuck— Why?!
Laura: Well, you know what, Kristin? I feel like I hear you, but also I feel like he's doing the reverse of what you've criticized him for doing all episode.
Jenny: True!
Kristin: Oh, come on!
Jenny: True!!!
Laura: He’s like, "I’m going to give you the information" — although he's still making the decision…
Kristin: But he makes—
Jenny: This is the moment you choose!
Kristin: No! No, he made the decision already, that's not what I was asking for! I
was asking for mutual communication to come to a decision together. Now: "I made this decision, you won't even remember it in 14 seconds, but let me tell you that your heart is about to fall out of your body."
Jenny: Also—
Laura: I just want to say that Kristin adapted some shoulder shimmies for that point. [Jenny laughs]
Kristin: Earlier, when I called out your shoulder shimmies, I was like really seeing my— Like I was like seeing you, ’cause it's, I get very animated myself.
Jenny: Also, like, if the Powers That Be can fold it or if, if the Oracles can fold it for one day, couldn't they have folded it for two days or a week or—? Come on, guys. Just like, give ‘em something. Although I guess dragging it out is just going to make it worse.
Kristin: Yeah, there was, there was no— I mean it was good that they only had a few minutes. It's just like, to me... I will never— I mean, it was great television, it made for great television, but—
Laura: One of the most painful scenes I've ever watched of anything.
Kristin: Oh, it's horrible. I mean, Sarah Michelle Gellar deserves a jingle of her own for this acting. Her crying — this is like Willow-level crying, I think, that she delivers here. Jenny, where are you?
Jenny: I'm just thinking about Sarah Michelle Gellar crying and how she's really good at it. We haven't even seen her best crying work yet. And! Furthermore, my crying work for this episode has been peak! I have watched it three times in the last week and I have cried every time.
Kristin: Ugh, it's very, very, very, very, very, very sad. There's really no other way to put it.
Laura: And given that there's a Titanic reference, she kind of gets her own "Never let go, Jack".
Kristin: Mmm, it really is!
Laura: ’Cause she gets— There's not enough time and... "I'll never forget."
Jenny: [simultaneously] "I’ll never forget." Uggghh!
Laura: "I’ll never forget!" "I’ll never forget!"
Kristin: "Never forget." And she will forget. She does forget. I want to say, too, that like I have issue with Angel, like, making a lot of decisions, but in this particular case, he does say to her, "I didn't tell you because I knew if I told you, I wouldn't be able to do it." And I have space for that, because… Like that's something that I— [Jenny groans] Right? Like he knew that if, if she had been crying like that, and they had been connecting like that before he had gone to see the fucking Oracle, he would have never gone to see the Oracle, and then the world would have ended. So like, points for that.
Jenny: Would the world have ended?
Kristin: I mean, the world is just gonna end, you know?
Jenny: I mean, I feel like...YOLO? And we're all gonna die and…
Laura: But maybe few of— fewer of us will die if they're looking forward and not inward.
Kristin: And this is, and this is a true— Like this is the true arc of both Angel and Buffy , which is that they sacrifice themselves for the good of mankind, you know?
Laura: And it’s consistent with when Angel destroyed the ring of a Amara — it was the ring of Amara, right?
Kristin: Yeah.
Laura: When Angel destroyed the ring of Amara, making the choice to be amidst the creatures of the night who—
Kristin: [laughing] Creatures of the night!
Laura: —you know, so that he could protect more people. You know, he's had, he's had opportunities before, that he's rejected, to be more normal.
Kristin: Yeah. But this… Oof.
Laura: It’s a toughie.
Kristin: It's real sad.
Jenny: Yeah it is.
Kristin: And then there's this like five seconds left…ugh.
Jenny: Aaaaghhh!
Kristin: That ticking clock. And then: snap . We're back to the beginning where we started, and Angel remembers. And you can see there's like a moment where I feel like he's— ’Cause like, so it switches back, and he says he couldn't have done it if he knew, like, that he wouldn't have been able to do it. But the fact of the matter is he knows how to turn himself into a human now. He just needs to cut open his palm, cut open a Mohra demon—
Jenny: Do a little blood pact.
Kristin: —do a little blood pact.
Jenny: Tight.
Kristin: And so like he's standing there in the room, he knows it's all gone... He could just turn human right then. And I feel like there's a moment when he like, like wants to tell Buffy, like, something, anything, just like a little thing and he doesn't.
Jenny: Oof.
Kristin: And then, um, then the Mohra demon comes in and he's like blam! And the Mohra demon— I just want to like give him a moment to the Mohra demon who's like, "What the fuck?" Like— [all laugh]
Laura: "How’d you know?!"
Kristin: Yeah! Mohra demon also did not remember anything from the temporal fold.
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: Ah, should we like take a moment from our sadness and talk about sexual tension?
Jenny: Yeah, I guess.
NOTES: [SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays] Sexual tension award!
Jenny: Well, another episode of television, another four top contenders for sexual tension. Here we are again, and just like ‘Pangs’, uh, thematically, there is one person who made it into every possible pairing. They will definitely be receiving a trophy, no matter what the outcome.
Kristin: Yeah, get that LA postage stamp ready. [all laugh]
Jenny: We’ve got, uh, obviously we've got Angel and Buffy.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Look at all the—
Kristin: Come on.
Jenny: You could cut it with a knife.
Kristin: If food comes off a table, you get nominated — that’s the math.
Jenny: [laughing] That is the math. We've also got, you know, Angel and Doyle, they share some moments. There’s some pulse-taking...
Kristin: Tell me all your thoughts on Doyle, Angel! [Jenny laughs]
Laura: Creepy, creepy little pulse check. [Kristin laughs] I don't mean it's creepy; I meant like a creeping, a creeping little pulse check.
Jenny: Then we've got, uh, you know: "He’s not a lower being" — we've got Lady Power and Angel.
Kristin: Lady Power! Yes.
Jenny: They’ve got some potential. She's like immortal and timeless or whatever, they could make it work.
Kristin: Yeah, I bet you Angel could sleep with Lady Demon — or Lady Power — and not lose his soul, right?
Jenny: Probably.
Laura: He’d probably have like the equal and opposite reaction.
Kristin: He'd get another soul?
Laura: Yeah. [Jenny and Kristin laugh] A bonus soul.
Kristin: [laughing] A bonus soul! [Jenny laughs]
Jenny: Uh, and I think the intuitive winner, um, although our Twitter poll will tell us who the real winner is, but I think my vote is with, uh, Angel and food. Angel and food long separated, separated for two centuries, briefly yet blissfully reunited. So beautiful.
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: Please participate in this beautiful democracy by voting, uh, via our Twitter poll. We are @bufferingcast and that will be up imminently.
Kristin: Yes!
Laura: Got to give an honorable mention to peanut butter and chocolate as well.
NOTES: [Jenny and Kristin laugh]
Jenny: Oh yeah!
Kristin: Not to mention ice cream and Angel’s pecs! There's a lot, there's a lot of tension. It's— I mean it's ‘I will remember you’ so... Well, do we have anything else, folks? [all sigh] Just heavy sighs.
Laura: Just a broken heart.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah. Just some mourning to do.
Kristin: Heavy sighs, and a broken heart. Oh, we made it through though, and you know what? Because this episode is so, so heavy, we figured we'd give you not one, but two podcasts to listen to! Because you not only get a Buffering episode today, but just like in the universe of Buffy and Angel when this aired, you get two episodes on one day. So if you're listening to this first, you can just mosey on over and listen to Jenny guest with Brittany and Laura on their episode of ‘I will remember you’.
Jenny: Yeah, just scoot over to the Angel on Top feed, and I will talk a whole bunch more, and shriek and cry and mourn and gnash my teeth! Great.
Laura: We're really encouraging masochism here.
Kristin: Yeah. Yes, very much. I hope that everybody who's listening to the podcast gets to the end of the podcast today and then it like switches to the radio
and it's like:
NOTES: [GIRLS LIKE YOU by Maroon 5 plays] Twenty-four hours, I need more hours with you
Kristin: You know? [Jenny laughs]
Laura: Hell yeah.
Kristin: Just for, like, a little spooky—
Laura: Synchronicity.
Kristin: —synchronicity, yes. Alright!
Jenny: Laura Zak, we are blessed and privileged to have you here with us on this amazing day. What a life! What a time to be upon this Earth, with you, discussing these things. Please tell the good people listening to us, uh, the many places upon the internet where they can find, uh, every nook and cranny of your digital life.
Laura: Wow, wow, wow. Um, well you can find me on Twitter and on Instagram. Just look up "Laura Zak", you'll find me pop up there. Um, I also have, as you
know, a podcast with— two podcasts with Brittany Ashley: Angel on Top, also Sicker, Sadder World, which we just wrapped up but still exists forever, which was a rewatch podcast of every episode of Daria . Um, and also I'm a writer, um, I wrote for 12 Forever , which is coming out on Netflix next year, and other projects to be announced. [Jenny laughs]
Kristin: Yeah! And obviously, you can follow Angel, uh, on Top—
Laura: @angelontopcast across the medias.
Kristin: ’cross the medias! What about you?
Jenny: Me? Oh my gosh, I am, of course, Jenny Owen Youngs, and when I'm not watching Buffy — or Angel — I, uh, write songs and record them and you can learn more about me, uh, and those songs at jennyowenyoungs.com/buffering. And you can always give me a shout on Twitter @jennyowenyoungs.
Kristin: Yes, and I am Kristin Russo, and you can find all things about me at kristinnolene.com. That's K-R-I-S-T-I-N-N-O-E-L-I-N-E. Uh, it's been a minute since you've heard the jingle that Jenny made for me, so let's play it now.
NOTES: [KRISTIN NOELINE jingle plays] Kristin with an I N-O-E-L-I-N-E
Kristin: Yes, you can use that jingle to find all the work that I do with LGBTQ communities. You can check out my work at everyoneisgay.com and mykidisgay.com, and of course you can use that ‘Kristin Nolene’ spelling to find me on Instagram and on Twitte.
Jenny: Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram @bufferingcast. And you can always drop us an email at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com .
Kristin: Yes, and if you want to support us — please do, we love support — you can go on over to iTunes and rate and review us. That helps everybody find the podcast. You can do the same for Angel on Top, so that people can find Buffy and Angel and just spend all their days with us, and with the 90s, which is really where we all want to be.
Jenny: Two parallel podcast feeds never to intersect. [Kristin laughs] Oh God, the pain!
Kristin: [laughing] You can also support us by going on over to our store and buying some of our merchandise. Uh, it's, it's October by now so we probably have tons of fun new stuff in there, who knows?!
Jenny: Who can say?!
Kristin: But you can find that on our website, bufferingthevampire slayer.com, just click on ‘Shop’ — and of course, you can join us on Patreon, that link is also on our website. We have four levels of giving. At the dollar level, you get really fun stuff like being a part of the secret Facebook group. Up at the $25 level, you get some exclusive merchandise, the first round of which just went out. It's a really fun time, it's a really cool community over there, so join us if you will. And um, Jenny, before you say "Until next time", let’s just just get excited about what's going to happen with these two episodes of the podcast [Laura squeals] with um, some, some music that perhaps we've been working on.
Jenny: Mmmmm! Wait, should we talk about it?
Kristin: Yeah, I'm sure we talked about it in the intro.
Jenny: Oh yeah, of course we did, way back then, in the intro. Who can even remember?!
Kristin: Let’s get them ready for — what perspective are they going to hear and what does that mean? Why are we talking about whose perspective?
Jenny: Uh, well that's because, uh, we have elected to create not one but two songs. Two sides of the same coin. Uh, one song from Buffet's perspective and one song from Angel's perspective.
Kristin: Mm-hmm. And so, uh, this episode of course is Buffering, so you'll get Buffy’s perspective as usual; and if you are headed on over to Angel on Top, you will, at the end of their episode, hear the song from Angel's perspective. And we are going to do a limited run of seven-inch vinyl that is split and that has one song on each side. So…
Jenny: Now I have chills.
Kristin: Yeah. And if you thought that wasn't enough, there's also a fucking poem from Buffy's perspective in our episode because over an Angel on Top-land, that's what they do — they write poetry from Angel's perspective. So you get two songs, two poems, a limited edition vinyl — you know, we can make lemonade from any old soul...ful... vampire... sad love story… Yup! [Jenny laughs]
Laura: Just doling out the blessings. [Kristin laughs]
Jenny: And... Till next time!
All: Aaaawooooooooooooo!!!
Brittany: Hi everyone. This is Brittany Ashley, co-host of Angel on Top, here to bring you a poem written by me and Laura, from the perspective of Buffy, because this is the most ambitious crossover event of the century. Stay tuned at the end of this poem for your regularly scheduled Buffering song installment.
NOTES: [ANGEL ON TOP poem background clicks begin] I will remember you An impulsive trip to the city of Angel to tell off my stalk-friendly ex, still pissed he came to Sunnydale — our once love still has its effects.
But we have to stick to plan: keep our distance, reduce torment; hopefully given enough time, we should be able to forget. Some rude dude interrupts our do, a demon fight we’ll never refuse, and so we take to the sewers — I'm totally having déjà vu. Patrolling the pier is a bust, when in walks a mirage of my lust. Could it be that this face I most love is uninjured by sunshine above? I don't mean to move too fast, but self-restraint owns our past; from first heartbeat, straight into his bedsheets — among my needs, caution is last. From climax to talking on pillows, eating peanut butter off of his pecs — is this what a normal girl feels like when her boyfriend keeps his soul after sex? But just when I let down my guard, the truth hits us both hard. It seems neither of us will survive the decision to keep him alive. He's made the choice for us both to cut short our era sublime. Seconds remain and I'm aching; I won't forget, it's just not enough time!
But we have to stick to the plan: keep our distance, reduce torment; hopefully given enough time, we should be able to forget. [ANGEL ON TOP poem clicks end] [Jenny performing "I will remember you," off the album "Songs from Season Four" by Buffering the Vampire Slayer] In my wildest dreams I couldn’t have seen it so clear, so clear After all this time, by some higher design you’re right here, right here And I can’t believe it could be Possible with you, possible with you Possible with you, possible with you Gave my heart to fate, held this terrible ache for so long, so long Dreamed a thousand ways that could magically make us not wrong, not wrong Some strange bolt of lightning fell into our laps, and why and how we don’t really know All of me is reeling, shed that sinking feeling, now I’m never letting you go Still I can’t believe it could be Possible with you, possible with you Possible with you, possible with you I reached across the void for you Please don’t do what you have to do Cause now you say it’s over There’s no way we can hold it Time and shifting sand, it’s all out of our hands But I won’t ever forget Shame on me, I believed it could be Possible with you, possible with you Possible with you, possible with you Had the wildest dream, in my slumber it seemed so clear, so clear And I can’t say now cause I lost it somehow But it was here, was right here