Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 2.04: Inca Mummy Girl
Jenny: If you’re listening to this episode the day it goes up, and you live in the LA area, please be advised that we are doing a live taping tomorrow, Thursday, February 2nd at the Nerdist showroom in Los Angeles. Please join us, you can find tickets and info at NerdmeltLA.com. [mumbling away from the mic] Did I say everything I was supposed to say?
Kristin: [quietly] I think so.
NOTES: [Intro Music]
Jenny: Hello and welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast where we’re watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer , one at a time. I am Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: And I’m Kristin Russo, and this week, we’re discussing Season 2, Episode 4, "Inca Mummy Girl". Stay tuned at the end of this podcast every week for an original song written by us recapping the Buffy episode we’re discussing.
Jenny: Inca Mummy Girl was written by Matt Kiene and Joe Reinkemeyer and directed by Ellen Pressman. It originally aired on October 6th, 1997.
Kristin: And the summary of this episode is a beautiful Inca princess, who was buried alive in a tomb 500 years ago, is brought back to life. And the little image, which – they’re really getting me every week with the little images here, is just a close up of Rodney’s mummified [laughter] –
Jenny: Brace face?
Kristin: Brace face. Cool, so, fun surprise. Fun surprise. We have somebody with us today.
Jenny: We really do.
Kristin: Who is it? Do you know?
Jenny: I would love it if you would explain it to me, slowly and in great detail.
Kristin: Okay, well, her name is Mey Rude.
Jenny: Oh my god, I love Mey Rude!
Kristin: I mean, I love Mey Rude too. You may know – if you follow us on Twitter, you probably already know Mey Rude. [laughter]
Jenny: Also if you listened to our live episode –
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: Or not our live episode but our uh, Songs from Season 1 live show from Union Hall, that’s up on our Patreon page, you heard Mey just answering a few hot, hot questions that we asked.
Kristin: Yes. And you may also, ooh, "you may also know Mey", did you like that? [laughter] If you are familiar with Autostraddle, where Mey is the trans and music editor.
Mey: Yeah.
Kristin: Mey what – will you tell us what Autostraddle is?
Mey: Yeah.
Kristin: For those of us – I mean, Jenny and I have kind of an idea.
NOTES: [laughter]
Mey: A little bit.
Kristin: We’ve heard of it once or twice but, yeah, will you tell our listeners in case they don’t know what Autostraddle is?
Mey: Yeah. Autostraddle is the internet’s number one website for queer women and feminist news and culture and essays.
Kristin: It’s the best.
Mey: It is.
Kristin: I think we’ve talked about it on here before, right?
Jenny: No doubt.
Kristin: Yeah. So welcome, Mey!
Jenny: Yes, welcome! Thanks for joining us.
Mey: Thank you, yeah, thank you for having me.
Jenny: Um, Mey texted us while she was watching this episode [chuckles] for the first time –
Mey: Yeah.
Jenny: A little while ago and was like, "please tell me you're gonna talk about how fucked up this episode is." [laughter] And we were like, why don’t you –
Kristin: Yeah. [laughter]
Jenny: Come to talk about it with us?
Kristin: Why don’t you come on over, we could all talk about how fucked up it is.
Mey: Yeah.
Kristin: We’re not ready for it yet but soon we’ll get into the Fashion Watch where I think that even Kate gets in on how fucked up this episode is.
NOTES: [laughter]
Mey: Good! Good.
Kristin: Cool, so let’s jump right in then, shall we? First of all, did you have – like, Jenny and I talked about this when we watched this the first time. Did you have a cultural awareness fair or anything like that in your school, when you were in high school or middle school?
Mey: Um, in the sixth grade we did country reports, where each student got a country and you had to do a report on it.
Kristin: Oh, right.
Jenny: Right, right.
Mey: And then we had a fair in the gym.
Kristin: Yes.
Mey: Where everyone dressed up and you had like a poster board –
Kristin: Mm-hmm, and food, right?
Mey: And food from the country.
Kristin: Yeah, same!
Mey: Yeah.
Kristin: That’s exactly what we had too, so when I was watching this I was like, this is pretty spot on.
Jenny: I don’t think we had anything like that. Although it’s possible that anything that didn’t involve capes, activity-wise, I just blocked out.
Kristin: [laughing] You just didn’t pay attention to?
Mey: You could have picked a cape country!
Kristin: Yeah, yeah! [laughter]
Jenny: I… what exactly are the cape countries? Where – Transylvania? Wait, is Transylvania a country – was a country?
Kristin: Yeah, ‘cause it’s...
Jenny: Oh, boy!
Kristin: Yeah, we shouldn’t go down this path. People will very swiftly discover our lack of geographical knowledge about the world.
Jenny: Ehhh. [laughter]
Kristin: But yeah, I mean, we’re gonna talk about a lot of the things that happen in this episode, but in placing it in my growing up, I was like, this is exactly what happened and what we did.
Jenny: Right, right. [sighs]
Kristin: We dressed up and like thought that we were doing something great, to bring awareness around other cultures. And I wonder – I guess I wonder two things. One, is it happening st – like, are schools still doing this and are we just aware of – you know, all of the fucked up parts of it because of the fact that we have conversations with people who know things. Or is there more – do we think there’s more sensitivity around stuff now? And maybe we’re making food and bringing in meals, but we’re not, like, dressing up?
Mey: [sighs] Yeah, I’m not sure.
Kristin: In some appropriative costumes.
Jenny: If you’re in elementary school, please email us at bufferingthevampireslayer –
Kristin: But it wasn’t elementary school! It was –
Mey: For me it was.
Kristin: Oh, it was?
Mey: It was sixth grade. Also, I just want to say, I was not racist with my costume. I had the Czech Republic and I dressed as a hockey player, ‘cause they have a lot of NHL players.
Jenny: Hah!
Kristin: Nice.
Mey: So, my costume was not, like, culturally appropriative at all.
Kristin: Nice.
Mey: So, yeah.
Jenny: That’s pretty sweet.
Kristin: I don’t remember what – like, I don’t know. Maybe we didn’t all dress up in costumes ‘cause I don’t think I had a costume. I do remember having to make some kind of food, but I could not tell you what it was. It was like 450 years ago, so. [laughter] Anyhow, so that’s how we start the episode where –
Jenny: They’re talking about how it’s a whole – there’s just so many things converging. There’s a student exchange program, where –
Mey: Mm-hmm.
Kristin: Yeah!
Jenny: Where students from a bunch of different countries are coming to stay with Sunnydale kids. The high school is having the cultural awareness dance at the Bronze. And there’s a big banner on the Natural History Museum, that’s like, "Cultural Exchange Special Exhibit".
Kristin: Right.
Mey: Hmm.
Jenny: AKA, "Mummy", I guess.
Kristin: Yeah. Where, P.S., they get a mummy that has travelled to Boston, New York, and Sunnydale. So.
Mey: And Atlanta.
Kristin: And Atlanta?
Mey: Atlanta.
Kristin: I missed Atlanta in the list, nice. Yeah, so good job on Sunnydale,
getting a prize – which is actually one of my first questions is: why is the mummy not protected at all? It’s like –
Jenny: That is not – I’m not buying it, that’s not how museums work!
Kristin: And like, Buffy and I don’t know who – Buffy and somebody are just like leaned on the tomb where the mummy’s just open air –
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah!
Mey: Yeah.
Kristin: No covering…
Jenny: All the better for the seal to get stolen later.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: I – nonsense! That’s just – museum tripe.
Kristin: Yeah, and also this where we meet Rodney...
Jenny: Okay, and what is the deal? He’s scraping the paint off of a mask? That seems so detail oriented for a kid that we’re supposed to sort of be seeing as just a general, you know...
Kristin: That’s my –
Mey: I feel like he’s going to smoke it later.
Jenny: Well, that’s what I was wondering.
Mey: That’s what I assumed.
Kristin: Nice!
Jenny: Because, okay, so there’s a –
Kristin: Not ni – by the way, not nice, like, just like –
Jenny: You’re into it.
Kristin: Just like nice interpretation. [laughter]
Jenny: You just like smoking stuff. That was my thought too because there’s this – I don’t know if it’s an urban legend or a rumor or whatever, that there’s a part of the human brain –
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: That if you scrape it out after somebody is dead and smoke it, you trip really hard.
Kristin: Yeah, yeah, you taught me that.
Mey: [intrigued] Ohh.
Kristin: And I learned from you, Dad!
Mey: Well, I mean, if you eat human brains, there are also diseases you can get that affect your own brain and make you go crazy.
Kristin: What!? Really?
Mey: Yeah.
Jenny: Where can I learn more about this?
Kristin: Where can I get some brains?
Mey: I mean, just lots of movies about cannibalism.
Jenny: Yeah.
Mey: Or TV specials about cannibalism that maybe you watch if you’re a little too interested in cannibalism. [laughter]
Jenny: Got it. Got it.
Mey: Yep.
Kristin: Yeah, well, you’ll have to do some more looking into that, Jenny. It’s really right up your alley.
Jenny: Seriously.
Kristin: But that was my – I had the same note on Rodney though is that, like, he’s a really interesting character because he’s introduced as "oh, Rodney, he doesn’t know anything" but then he’s like, scraping artifacts into a plastic bag.
Jenny: Yeah
Kristin: And then also, so excited about that seal.
Mey: Yeah.
Kristin: Why? Is he just misunderstood? I wanted to know more.
Jenny: Maybe...
Kristin: We lost Rodney too soon, is how I feel.
Jenny: Yeah, we’ll never know.
Kristin: We’ll never know.
Jenny: Also, the tour guide with the microphone and the red jacket –
Mey: Oh!
Jenny: Like, "right this way!"
Kristin: Oh my god, yes.
Mey: That’s a great jacket.
Kristin: He’s very John Waters.
Mey: Yeah!
Jenny: Oh, there it is!
Kristin: Right? I couldn’t think of it till right now. I was like, what does he remind me of?
Jenny: Totally.
Mey: Ah, that would have been a great cameo if that was actually John Waters.
Kristin: Ugh, fantastic. We should’ve asked John Waters if he wanted to be on.
Jenny: Next time. Wow, wow, wow, wow.
Kristin: But yeah. So then, right, factually speaking. Factually speaking –
Jenny: In quotes.
Kristin: The seal is taken, the mummy rises, the life gets sucked out of Rodney.
Jenny: And then the worst thing ever happens.
Mey: Yeah.
Jenny: Which is that the dehydrated mummy’s eye sockets open.
Mey: Ugh, those eyes!
Jenny: [yelling] The worst! The worst.
Mey: Ugh, wow.
Jenny: I watched this the first time while I was home – not home, I was alone in an Airbnb in Nashville. And it was midnight and I was by myself. And I actually – even though I’ve seen this episode a bunch of times, I jumped – [laughter] when she reached up towards Rodney. And then when those eye sockets opened, I was like, "oh, this is not going to bode well for my sleep for the rest of this trip!"
Kristin: So does that eye opening moment trigger, which we’ve talked about, I think, on the podcast before, your aversion to porous things?
Mey: Ohh.
Jenny: Yeah, it’s in – there’s some overlap there. I mean, it’s not pure, but it’s definitely not great.
Kristin: Cool. Cool. [Jenny sighs] Great.
Jenny: So then we have the credits.
Kristin: Yeah, then we have the wonderful credits. Which is nice ‘cause the rest of this episode is narrated – or what do you call it? Scored with just pan flute. [laughter]
Jenny: Ohh, god.
Mey: [sound of disgust]
Kristin: Which is also, I think, a problem. So, you know…
Jenny: Yeah...
Kristin: Problem number one. We should have a little problematic buzzer. That we just, every time –
Mey: Ugh.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Mey: It would be too many times.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: It would be buzzing the whole time that we’re talking.
Mey: Basically every time Xander speaks. [groans]
Jenny: There’s that.
Kristin: Yeah. Xander’s definitely given the majority of problematic lines.
Jenny: Oh god.
Kristin: Which is I think fitting for his character.
Mey: Fair.
Jenny: Right in line.
Kristin: That’s not to say that these lines should have been written [laughter] but if they had to be written and given to anyone, probably Xander is landing in the right spot. But you know, it’s funny. When we talk about – right, ‘cause, for example, Xander has this moment where he’s like, "I don’t know any Spanish except for Doritos and chihuahua." [Jenny groans]
Mey: Mm-hmm. Well, he says, "Do we have to speak Spanish around this guy?"
Kristin: Right.
Mey: Which as a Latina, hearing that is like, great. Great.
Kristin: Makes you feel really wonderful.
Mey: [sarcasm] Yeah. I would feel welcome in that school. Yeah. [laughter] Absolutely.
Jenny: And if you were meeting Xander and he was like, "Doritos?"
Kristin: No, the first thing that Xander actually says... is "ay caramba."
Mey: "Ay caramba."
Jenny: It is such a bummer.
Kristin: It’s really – and it just goes on and on. It’s like, you know –
Jenny: "Your Spanish is very bueno", sorry [yelling] "Your Spanish is very bueno!"
Kristin: Yeah. Ugh, taking all the joy out of Mey’s enjoyment of your Spanish by quoting of a racist line. [laughter]
Mey: Oh gosh.
Jenny: Sorry. Sorry sorry sorry sorry.
Mey: Ugh.
Jenny: It’s this trope that you see when somebody doesn’t speak English, where people speak –
Kristin: Really loud.
Jenny: Really slow and loud.
Mey: Mm-hmm. But Buffy and Willow are speaking just regular.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: ‘Cause they’re not dummies.
Mey: And she’s understanding and talking with them and it’s great.
Kristin: Right. And I wonder how we would look at this episode too if Ampata – I mean, do we call her Inca Mummy Girl or Ampata ‘cause that’s the name she takes after she kills Ampata?
Jenny: Let’s call her Ampata.
Mey: Yeah.
Kristin: It’s like, I wonder how different this would have at least been if Ampata was like, "the fuck is your problem?" [laughter] There’s something doubly troublesome about the fact that they’ve made her character like, I literally love the most racist person in the – in the thing...
Mey: Yeah! "This guy’s treating me like an idiot and I love him for it."
Kristin: Yeah. "And I love that."
Mey: Yeah.
Kristin: Which is – yeah. I think it’s bad enough…
Jenny: She has been dead for a really long time.
Mey: That’s true.
Jenny: And Xander is just right there.
Kristin: Right. That’s the thing too, is like, I was thinking about this as a person who grew up in the 90s and as a person who probably fucking said a lot of this stuff.
Jenny: Mm-hm
Kristin: Like no fucking joke. Like, I had no fucking idea that – you know, when I was 16, 17, if I was like, oh my gosh, ay caram – like, it would have never occurred to me – which is certainly not to take the responsibility off of myself for knowing things like that. But it is an eye opener, I think, to see something like this, to realize where I am now in my education and my awareness and to think back to where I was as a teenager. And be like, oh cool, not only is this a problem but probably I was fucking saying things just like this all the time. Cool, great talk, everyone.
Jenny and Mey: Yeah
Kristin: Just being honest, just being real. Just letting everyone know.
Jenny: Yeah, it is kind of a little bit of a time capsule and a developmental capsule. I guess that sort of intersection –
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: ‘Cause we were that age when this was airing.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: And Sunnydale is a pretty white place. I grew up in a very white place –
Kristin: Same, very white.
Jenny: Where this wasn’t a part of the conversation. Where this conversation would have blown my mind.
Kristin: Right, but I don’t think – I think maybe for us, it’s a developmental time capsule. But I think in terms of the world, or this country, it’s not specific to the 90s.
Jenny: As evidenced by recent political events.
Mey: Ahhh.
Kristin: Oh fuck! Yeah.
NOTES: [Tone to mark break in recording]
Kristin: Hey guys, we’re breaking the fourth wall for just a second here because we want to talk to you about something. There’s a lot going on in our world and in our country right now. There has been, but everything has reached critical mass. And when we come upon issues like this in the episodes or just in general chatter, we’re really wondering if you want to hear more from us about our feelings on those things. You can certainly find our feelings on what’s happening in the United States and in the world at large on our personal social media accounts. But we know you might want to keep this a space for escapism, vampires, and all of that good stuff. So if you wouldn’t mind, shoot us a tweet, shoot us an email, shoot us a Facebook message, and just let us know. Do you want to hear more politics on here or do you want us to stick to Angel, Buffy, etcetera etcetera. For now, we’re gonna talk about Willow.
NOTES: [Tone to mark break in recording]
Jenny: What’s worse seeing Willow in pain or seeing Willow in pain over Xander in an episode where he is being particularly dreadful?
Mey: [sigh]
Kristin: Yeah.
Mey: It’s all terrible.
Kristin: I’m really interested by Xander’s... like, by the arch of Xander’s crush on Buffy and how open they all are about talking about it. It just doesn’t seem like a thing that would’ve happened in high school.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: I don’t know that we were at all able to talk about the fact that we had an unrequited crush on another person.
Mey: Mmm.
Kristin: And he’s really open about it and they’re all just like, "Yeah, Xander with that silly crush."
Jenny: "Xander had a crush on Buffy and Willow’s got a crush on Xander and Xander doesn’t think about Willow’s lips." But maybe because they’re dealing with literal life and death stuff –
Kristin: Ohh.
Jenny: All day every day –
Mey: That’s fair
Jenny: The stuff that would normally be way more dramatic in your high school time, sort of shrinks.
Kristin: Yeah, that’s true. Keen observation, I think.
Mey: That’s true. I wanted to say though, all the frickin’ time, I think about kissing my best friends. Whether in a romantic way or a non-romantic way.
Kristin: Mm-hm
Jenny: Mm-hm, mm-hm, mm-hm.
Mey: So I didn’t understand that argument, that she’s my best friend so she doesn’t have the kind of lips that I think about kissing.
Kristin: Right. Well, I also think –
Mey: That didn’t resonate.
Kristin: It also seemed like – ‘cause I agree, I think it’s more of the thing you say when you don’t know how to say the truth.
Mey: Mm-hmm.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: Like, "oh but I don’t want to ruin our friendship." It’s like, if you have the feelings too that you want to kiss the person, or whatever, pretty much you usually take the risk. Right?
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: So yeah, but Willow has a lot of heartbreaking moments in this.
Mey: Yeah.
Kristin: I just love her. Her sweet little self. And I’m like, come on, Willow. But! We meet Oz.
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: We meet Oz this episode!
Mey: Oz is my favorite male character on the show, I think.
Kristin: Wow, that’s great.
Jenny: And where are you, currently?
Mey: I’m in the middle of season 3 still.
Kristin: What are we in, season 2?
Mey: This is season 2, yeah.
Jenny: Mhm mhm.
Mey: So I’m a season ahead of where this is right now.
Jenny: Cool cool cool, gotcha
Kristin: Yeah, Oz is pretty great.
Mey: Yeah.
Kristin: For those of you watching real time with us, although I feel like it’s everyday that we get another tweet from someone who’s like, "sorry, I finished it." [laughter]
Jenny: Oops!
Kristin: I feel like we’re gonna lose everyone. By the time we’re in season 3, everyone will have watched the whole series.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: But yeah, Oz appearing is a big deal. Shoutout to Oz for the New York Islanders T-shirt that he’s wearing.
Jenny: Ah, yes.
Kristin: I was born on Long Island and I was there for 12 years and then lived in the city for 15. So like, good job, Oz.
Jenny: So you’re basically best friends with Oz?
Kristin: I’m best friends with Oz, is my point!
Jenny: Got it, got it got it.
Kristin: But also that’s a choice. Do we find out that Oz is even from New York? Is he just wearing a New York Islanders shirt?
Jenny: I think he’s just wearing a New York Islanders shirt.
Kristin: I like it.
Mey: I don’t know if he would be a sports fan, right?
Kristin: Right, like he’s wearing it ironically.
Jenny: Or maybe he bought it at Goodwill as a joke.
Mey: Yeah, I was gonna say he probably just likes the graphic on it.
Kristin: Yeah, the colors.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Blue and orange, pretty solid color combo.
Mey: Mhm.
Jenny: As we meet him he’s having a conversation with Devon –
Kristin: Wow, you know Devon’s name.
Jenny: Who has just had an exchange with Cordelia who is dating him, which I 100% do not buy!
Kristin: I don’t think Cordelia buys it. Do you see the kiss? Did you see the kiss? [laughter] There’s something else going on there.
Jenny: She’s just killing some time.
Kristin: She’s definitely killing – Cordelia literally kisses him on the cheek as though they are, like, brother and sister. She’s like, "mwah, bye."
Jenny: Yeah and – oh god. When Devon is talking to Oz about Cordelia, have you ever heard a less convinced or more distanced from the actual meaning of the sentence – performance of the sentence, [flatly] "yeah, she’s a hot girl." [laughter] It’s so great.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: "Yeah, she’s a hot girl." It’s so good.
Kristin: Cue that line I’m supposed to say so you stop talking. Is how it reads.
Jenny: Yeah yeah yeah.
Kristin: I do not remember Oz having such a facial hair situation.
Jenny: Yeah, it’s really happenin’.
Kristin: It’s really happening.
Mey: It’s a lot.
Kristin: Which you know, might get us right into talking with Kate.
Jenny: Oh yeah!
Kristin: ‘Cause I think Kate has something to say.
Jenny: Kate has a lot to say. [laughter]
Kristin: Kate has actually, a lot to say, so yeah, let’s hear it.
Jenny: Please.
NOTES: [Buffy Fashion Watch intro jingle plays] It’s time for our friend Kate To give you the Buffy fashion update
Kate: Welcome back, one and all, to the glorious return of Buffy Fashion Watch in one of the most bizarre and culturally insensitive episodes of the
entire series. Inca Mummy Girl has everything: overalls, wool hats, and pink mini skirts that practically double as belts. Cordelia has lightened her hair, Willow’s fully dedicated to pigtails, Cordelia’s got a bougie knitted cardigan and later, a vaguely Hawaiian-themed bikini and nobody calls her friend out on wearing a racist geisha costume. Xander wears a poncho. The background extras at the Bronze are in T-shirts for no reason, and not costumes, except for a couple who look like they might be in their 40s. Oz shows up and has a soul patch. Ampata produces a tailored, nonspecific, quote-unquote "period" costume and jewelry out of thin air and wears the absolute hell out of a golden, copper makeup scheme complete with a killer Twiggy-style cut crease in her eye shadow, despite having been dead for hundreds of years before, like, two days ago. There... guys, there is just too much going on in this one episode. But if I was gonna nail it down to one thing... listen. Buffy in her bedroom before the dance, hair up, white T-shirt with those baggy overalls? [sharp intake of breath] Man. Like, that’s just a really good look. I’m telling you, we did not appreciate the 90s enough. I’ll be back for "Halloween." And until then, I’ll see you at the mall.
NOTES: [Buffy Fashion Watch outro jingle plays] That was our friend Kate She gave you the Buffy fashion update
Jenny: Thank you, Kate.
Kristin: Thank you so much, Kate.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: I think that might have been my favorite fashion watch –
Jenny: All time!
Kristin: Of all time. Yeah.
Jenny: Fashion watch hall of fame.
Kristin: Really knocked it out of the park.
Jenny: For sure.
Kristin: Knocked it out of the fashion park, Kate. I wanna – we’ve already gotten into the Oz part of the show. But I wanna just jump back a second, because I had a logistical question, which is how in the fuck did Ampata know about Ampata? We go to the bus station and she’s like, "Ampata!" And I’m like, first of all, how do you know his name?
Jenny: Do you think she’s related to the…
Mey: All Latinas know each other. [laughter]
Kristin: Right.
Mey: All of us know all of us.
Kristin: Oh, I’m so sorry, I forgot.
Jenny: Ohhh, I thought maybe she was related to the mystical hyenas from season 1, episode 6.
Kristin: And that – wait, so she could see...
Jenny: Well, the myth about the hyenas was that they would follow you around during the day and then call your name at night and lure you alone out into the dark. [Kristin giggles] Too much? Too soon? [chuckles]
Kristin: It’s great, it’s great. I’m happy about it. But yeah, I was just like, wait a second, what’s going on here?
Jenny: There is a bit of a hole there.
Kristin: But thank you, Mey. That’s exactly what’s happening here. So silly of me, so silly of me. Also, I don’t need a big discussion here, but I just did
want to say: bodyguard in the bushes, LOL. [laughter] ‘Cause I really enjoy that pan where he’s just like – the lights cast on him and he’s like –
Jenny: Oh my god, yeah, and it’s catching on his scar.
Kristin: Yeah. This is a really... sad story.
Jenny: Oh my god, and a story that really highlights one of our recurring themes, which is the patriarchy!
Kristin: [laughs] Sorry, I didn’t even know you were going there. I just fell right into the patriarchy with no warning.
Jenny: A young woman has been chosen and she has to be sacrificed for the safety of her people, right? And she has no choice in the matter. Kind of like somebody else we know.
Kristin: Yeah, sounds a little familiar. But it’s hard ‘cause she’s the bad guy, I guess, but she’s not. Because she... you know, she just wants her life.
Jenny: She just wants to live!
Kristin: She just wants to live and have a ch –
Mey : Yeah. But I mean, she murders people.
Kristin: She does but –
Jenny: Right but it’s like –
Mey: She murders children. She murders sixteen-year-olds.
Kristin: But like, you know!
Jenny: But she got murdered first? She just, ehhh…
Kristin: Yeah, it’s like, ehh…
Jenny: If you get murdered and you murder other people, doesn’t it just sort of come out in the wash?
Mey: It’s like, double jeopardy?
Kristin: Yeah, yeah. [giggling] But maybe she’s murdered a few too many for it to cancel out.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: But I just... I don’t know, I found it hard to actually hate her at any point in the episode.
Mey: Oh yeah, no, I didn’t hate her at all. Yeah.
Kristin: ‘Cause you just, like – I don’t know, you really empathize with her or something? It’s sad.
Jenny: Yeah, you feel it.
Mey: Ampata-thize?
Kristin: Oooh, wow.
Jenny: Oh my god! Ampata-thize? [giggles]
Kristin: Wow, Ampata-thize, that’s really good. Jenny, I know that you had a moment that you wanted to talk about between Oz and Devon.
Jenny: [exhales] "You’re lead guitar, Oz, that’s currency" and the hand motion of currency. [laughter] Devon... you haven’t seen the last of Devon if you’re watching this for the first time. You’ll see Devon again here and there and he never disappoints. He is the sort of... absolute peak, most – he’s just 155% high school lead singer.
Kristin: Oh, well, as evidenced later in the episode when he is singing. [Jenny laughs] Horrific.
Jenny: Oh, ohh.
Kristin: Horrific.
Jenny: Oh, you don’t like his moves?
Kristin: I hate it. I hate it –
Jenny: If Gavin Rossdale was doing that, you would have been like [high-pitched] oh, my.
Kristin: Gavin Rossdale would never do that and that’s why I like Gavin Rossdale. [Jenny laughs] That’s not how Gavin Rossdale would ever –
Jenny: I don’t know, I’ve seen Gavin Rossdale move in ways that are not too far away from that. I’ll show you some videos later. [giggles]
Kristin: No, you won’t take Gavin Rossdale from me. [laughs]
Jenny: Okay, okay, okay.
Kristin: But yeah, I was very upset about the moves – Devon’s moves on stage. Nope, nope, thumbs down. Embodiment – it just made me – you know what, it made me feel like the patriarchy.
Jenny: The patriarchy.
Kristin: Sorry, I’m gonna say it again. You know what, in this new world of ours, I think we’re allowed to say "the patriarchy" more times.
Mey: As many times you want.
Jenny: Use as needed. For sure.
Kristin: Thank you. Thank you, Mey.
Mey: Wait, and speaking of the new world though.
Kristin: Yes.
Mey: I hate that this exchange student is from South America? The continent, as opposed to a specific place.
Kristin: A specific place. Yeah, is that –
Jenny: Do they never say a country?
Kristin: They never say a country?
Mey: I don’t think so. I mean, they just, over and over again say "South America."
Kristin: Yeah, well, we hear – ‘cause Giles is like, "oh, well, from the same region…"
Mey: The same region… [chuckles]
Kristin: "Of South America" but where does Peru – where’s –
Mey: Which they did get – like, they got some factual stuff right. Well, the mountain god that they say isn’t the name of a god but it’s the name of a volcano in Peru.
Kristin: Oh, wow.
Mey: Which is where the Incas lived. So, like, they did get that right.
Kristin: But…
Mey: But, like, that’s it. They stopped at that point and were like, "Okay, now we can just make it up."
Kristin: Well, when people ask me where I’m from, I say North America so…
NOTES: [laughter]
Mey: Yeah, exactly.
Jenny: Oh my god, well you might want to start doing that now.
Mey: Yeah.
Kristin: North America…
Jenny: For the next few years.
Kristin: Yeah, seriously. Yeah, solid call. Ugh. And speaking of shitty things… [laughter] there’s a lot of ‘em! This one’s just Xander-specific. There’s this really, really great moment and what I mean by great is like, it encapsulates, I think, you know, some of Xander’s character – where Willow is like "blah blah blah and my costume –" and Xander’s like, "But, um, what about me?" And I stopped and I looked at Mey and I looked at Jenny and I was like, well, isn’t that just exactly it? [laughter] Xander really is "but what about me, guys?" If there was one line to boil Xander down to.
Jenny: Oh my god, indeed.
Kristin: We’ve laid off Xander a little bit, so I feel very comfortable going full throttle.
Jenny: I mean, it’s just a rough episode for him.
Kristin: It is. It’s a rough episode for him.
Mey: It’s a rough episode for the people he talks to.
Jenny: [laughs in agreement]
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah. Oh Mey, I’m so glad you’re here.
Mey: Thank you.
Kristin: This is just great. Just great. While we’re talking – let’s just stay on this train of horror because then we get to the library. Then we get to the library, Ampata is there. Giles legitimately doesn’t even really say hi. Giles is just straight up like, "Oh, you’re here. You’re here and you’re from South America."
Jenny: "Can you translate this seal?"
Kristin: "Can you translate this seal?" So how about we don’t, you know,
have one of the major lessons in the episode be: if you need something translated, go find somebody from that region who has literally – you don’t even know them. You’ve never even met them and say –
Jenny: Don’t introduce yourself.
Kristin: No, don’t say anything to them.
Mey: Just everyone from the continent of South America can translate ancient pictograms. It’s just common knowledge.
Kristin: It’s just how they’re raised is to learn – yeah, of course. [sighs]
Jenny: I will say that when something bad is afoot, when something evil is happening and there’s research to be done, Giles is short with everyone –
Kristin: That’s true.
Jenny: Including Jenny Calendar, who he totally wants to get with.
Kristin: Yep, yep.
Jenny: But I don’t know if – is that necessary, Jenny? I don’t know.
Kristin: No, but it is a character observation, but come on!
Mey: But still...
Jenny: I mean, no, it’s rough.
Kristin: If Giles is short with everyone, Giles should still have the awareness that perhaps, maybe, at least say hello before you –
Mey: Giles should have the awareness that a teenager in modern-day Peru would not be able to translate 500-year-old pictograms.
Kristin: Yeah, what?
Jenny: Yeah... and the fact that she can doesn’t raise any suspicions.
Mey: ‘Cause they all assume that she does, yeah!
Kristin: Well, because they assume that she could.
Jenny: Of course, of course, of course.
Kristin: Which is a great lesson, which is maybe the less racist you are, the more chances you have of solving the mystery. But you’ve blown it.
Mey: Or of detecting mummies. [laughter]
Kristin: Exactly, exactly. Cool –
Jenny: One thing I will say about this scene is that Giles looks good with a magnifying glass. I don’t know if we’ve seen him with a magnifying glass before, but it looks very natural. One positive thing.
Kristin: I agree. And then – sorry, not that this is a positive thing, but we have this moment with Willow again now, that’s so sad.
Jenny: Awwwww.
Kristin: There’s three distinct Willow moments where she’s just heartbroken. But it’s good because her heartbrokenness is kind of propelling to take some initiative and we see her – like, even though she’s feeling sad, be like, "you know what you should do? You should take her to the dance and not me and I’ll be fine." Which is a pretty badass moment for Willow. Right?
Jenny: Willooooow!
Kristin: Yeah. So I love that. I’m sorry, it’s like I keep looking like there will be something really fun and wonderful to discuss. But the next thing that I have on my list is twinkies.
Mey: Ugh.
Jenny: Twinkies on the bleachers. Yo, repeat that fact you found.
Kristin: Which is a great album name. Twinkies on the Bleachers.
Jenny: Yeah. Look out for my new album.
Kristin: Jenny Owen Youngs: Twinkies on the Bleachers.
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: Oh yeah, so one of the trivia facts that I read from IMDB was that they had to eat about ten twinkies for every take of this scene as they did it, which seems like a lot.
Jenny: I feel like probably – isn’t it a thing where if you have to shoot a scene where you’re eating a food over and over again –
Kristin: You can spit it out?
Mey: Oh, you spit it.
Jenny: You put it in your mouth and then – yeah.
Kristin: Yeah, so maybe the trivia was being dramatic. ‘Cause they made it seem like they were eating the twin – they weren’t like, "and then they had to chew on ten twinkies" ‘cause that’s a little less dramatic.
Mey: Also sounds gross.
Kristin: Chewing on ten –
Mey: Which I mean, eating ten twinkies sounds really gross also. [laughter] But when you see the way that Xander chews, oh my god.
Kristin: Ohhh, it’s just – why? I don’t understand –
Jenny: [laughs] Kristin just pulled her beanie down over her whole face and was like, why?!
Kristin: I don’t understand why anyone would have done this to us. Why would anyone make us watch Xander shove a twinkie, whole, into his mouth?
Mey: And then keep talking.
Kristin: And then keep talking!
Jenny: Yeah...
Mey: And the amount of twinkie doesn’t get any less, it’s just –
Kristin: No, it’s just mushing around in there.
Mey: So much in his mouth.
Jenny: It’s not great.
Kristin: No, it’s really not. And then she does the same thing and it’s, like, way better when she does it but it’s still…
Mey: Absolutely.
Jenny: Yeah, but it’s still somebody shoving a whole twinkie in their mouth.
Kristin: This might be controversial but I did have a moment, especially in the first watching of this, where I kind of found myself a little bit endeared in the moment when she – you see that she’s liking him for the first time. Which of course, is a problem. [laughter] But she’s liking him for the first time and he’s seeing that she’s liking him, and I did have a moment for Xander, where I – ‘cause, you know, he has moments in this where you see that he is, I mean, very insecure. [giggling] And so he’s very overwhelmed by the fact that he’s talking to this girl and she actually likes him.
Mey: And like, she’s a gorgeous girl.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: A total babe.
Mey: Absolutely.
Kristin: Yeah, she’s – yeah.
Mey: Boy Ampata’s clothes fit her super well! [laughter] Like, amazingly well.
Kristin: [laughing] Especially that dress she wears to the dance, as talked about by Kate.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: One other little thing is that, Mey, did you watch the show Friends ? Have you seen that series?
Mey: No, I’ve famously never seen it.
Jenny: [whispers] Wow.
Kristin: Incredible.
Mey: Yeah.
Kristin: This will be perhaps lost on you then, but we’ve gotten feedback from our listeners on some of the overlap between the character of Xander and the character of Chandler on Friends . They really are – they have a lot of overlap, especially in the places where we don’t like them. That’s a very – you know. And so there’s a moment – and listeners, if you saw it – if you did not see it, you should go back, especially if you know Friends . There’s a moment on the bleachers when he, I think, hands her – what does he say? "That’s why you bring two!" ‘Cause she’s like, "well, what about me? I’m not going to get to try it now?" And he says "that’s why you bring two" and he does this little gesture and it is like you are watching Chandler from Friends . It is – it’s incredible.
Jenny: Oh yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Mey: That’s the one – he’s the guy who was in 30 Rock? Or Aaron’s Sorkin’s 30 Rock? Studio 60?
Jenny: Right, on the Sunset Strip. Yes, yes.
Mey: Yeah, ‘cause that’s what I thought when I watched – ‘cause I love Studio 60 on the Sunset Strip and so that’s where I know that actor from.
Kristin: And so you recognized –
Mey: And so I was like, oh, he looks exactly like that actor.
Kristin: Oh, wow! Wow.
Jenny: Yes! There it is.
Kristin: So that was a real "whoa" moment. Xander kicks a little bit of ass in the fight scene.
Jenny: Okay, so here’s something in terms of things I don’t buy.
Kristin: Yeah. Xander kicking ass in the fight scene? [laughs]
Jenny: I mean, Xander participates in slaying activities as a supporting member –
Kristin: Yeah, no, I know.
Jenny: But this – so Gil Burmingham, who’s playing a character known only as "Peru Man" –
Kristin: [sighs in frustration]
Jenny: Who is the bodyguard whose, you know, existence is tied to the mummy.
Mey: But is he an ancient person also or is he in the line…?
Kristin: Ohhh!
Jenny: Oh my god, I just assumed he was a mystical, ancient person who was sort of – like, would apparate –
Mey: See, I thought his father was one and his grandfather was one.
Jenny: Ohhh, he’s like a slayer!
Mey: Yeah, exactly.
Jenny and Kristin: Wow!
Mey: That’s what I assumed.
Kristin: [gasps] That’s way cooler.
Jenny: That’s much cooler.
Kristin: Oh, and way more sad.
Jenny: And also would really explain why he’s wearing loafers? [laughter] Even though he has that flowing blouse and a scimitar. He has khakis and loafers, so from the waist down, he’s modern man and from the waist up, he’s keeping traditional alive, I guess? [laughter] Okay.
Kristin: Oh no, but then, what does that mean? I guess the mummy doesn’t need a watcher or bodyguard anymore because... then she’s gone. Right, she’s destroyed?
Mey: But also he probably has a son or daughter at home who is like, oh –
Kristin: Who knows that they have to step up.
Mey: Who felt it – like, a movement in the force and was like, oh, now it’s my turn. You know?
Kristin: Wow. Mey, what a brilliant interpretation.
Jenny: Thank god you’re here.
Kristin: Yeah, thank god. You know what? I don’t want to take us off the episode for too long but since Mey, you are here, I just want to make sure we talk about the fact that – was it last week that we were talking about the Cordelia-on-Cordelia fanfiction?
Mey: Oh, in the last episode? Yeah.
Kristin: Yeah. And Mey, why don’t you tell us what you’ve done?
Mey: Oh, I read it. I read it and I loved it.
Jenny: Wow.
Mey: I loved it a lot, actually.
Kristin: I’m really – I was so excited. Can you tell us about it? Or – one of them you said was super short.
Mey: Yeah. Well, the first one – well, so again, Cameron Glavin, a friend of all of ours, brought these to our attention. The first one is called "The Boy, the Girl, and the Flower" which I don’t know why it’s called that [Jenny and Kristin laugh] –
Jenny: ‘Cause it should be called "The Cordelia and the Cordelia"?
Mey: ‘Cause there’s no boys in the story and no flowers in the story? And it’s 270 words or something. It’s by Sang Aaron. All these are on An Archive of Our Own, which is a fanfic website.
Kristin: Cool.
Mey: But it’s just super short and like, Cordelia meets another Cordelia and then they just kiss and it’s just a little bit of stuff. But it’s really fun and
cute. And this – the last line is so perfect. The last line is: "there have always been people willing to call you a narcissist. Why shouldn’t you make the most of it?" [Jenny laughs]
Kristin: Wow!
Mey: Which, I’m obsessed with that. That’s so perfect.
Jenny: Wow, wow wow wow.
Kristin: A plus. I have not read the whole thing but I will and –
Mey: Well, and that right there was about a tenth of it ‘cause it’s very short.
Kristin: But if that’s a tenth, I’m into the other nine-tenths. You know?
Mey: Oh, yeah, the other one is much longer, it’s six to seven thousand words. And it’s called "Chase Versus Chase" by Cdybedahl. I didn’t understand the plot points because it took place during the TV show Angel, so there’s some characters I didn’t recognize.
Kristin: Oh. I see, I see.
Mey: But they were in college and stuff. So yeah, there were people that were mentioned who I did not know. But the description of the thing said "what little plot there is in this one is just a flimsy excuse to pair Cordy up with herself." [Jenny and Kristin laugh] So the characters I didn’t know didn’t really matter.
Jenny: Right, right.
Mey: But it’s great. Cordelia gets hit with a spell from a demon and it splits her into Good Cordelia and Bad Cordelia.
Jenny: Oh, yes.
Kristin: Oh, wow!
Mey: And it gets really sexy. It’s amazing.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Mey: I would absolutely recommend it. It’s terrific.
Kristin: Fantastic, Mey.
Mey: Fanfic-tastic.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: You’re just – that’s it. You’re hired. You know what I mean?
Mey: Thank you.
Kristin: Wow, Mey, thank you for reading. Thank you for doing that work for us.
Jenny: Yes.
Mey: Oh, it was very difficult.
Kristin: Yeah. [laughs] You know, some of you were a little upset last week because Cordelia didn’t get her jingle and to be honest with you, I don’t know that Cordelia would have gotten her jingle in this episode –
Jenny: If it wasn’t for this hot new fanfic news.
Kristin: If it wasn’t for this – yes, hot, hot fanfic reporting by Mey Rude. So, let’s hear it.
NOTES: [Cordelia jingle plays] Cordelia ah-ahh I love you Cordelia ah-ahh You’re perfect Cordelia ahh-ahhh
Kristin: As always, if you want to have that be the way that your phone lets you know that an incoming call has arrived, you can just go to iTunes and get yourself a Cordelia ringtone.
Mey: It’s my ringtone and my alarm, yeah.
Jenny: Oh, man.
Kristin: It’s mine as well. And I often do not answer calls because I just want to hear the rest of it.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: Yeah, making people happy. A very important thing in these days.
Mey: Very true.
Kristin: So, a little shout out to the call out for the praying mantis episode.
Jenny: Oh yes!
Kristin: I thought that was really fun. And also important because it is pret – it’s a big bummer that Xander has had two encounters of a sexual nature – that we’ve seen and believed to be the only two. [laughter] And in one, she turns into a praying mantis and tries to eat him and two, she’s turning into a mummy and almost tries to suck the life force out of his body.
Jenny: [sighs] Oh dear, oh bother.
Kristin: Sorry about that. But also I think we’re all okay with Xander having a little heartbreak.
Mey: Yeah.
Kristin: So you win some, you lose some.
Jenny: It’s fine.
Kristin: It’s fine. Also, very Hocus Pocus in the sucking of life force, that’s what it reminded me of. The way she sucks their life out of their mouth? Yeah, very Hocus Pocusy. Cool.
Jenny: We don’t see her suck the life out of any girls.
Kristin: Oh, yeah.
Mey: She gets close.
Kristin: Willow.
Mey: With Willow.
Jenny: But no cigar.
Mey: But I know.
Kristin: Right, well, that would be a little scandalous, don’t you think?
Jenny: Right, right, right.
Kristin: No one in Sunnydale is gay, Jenny. Goodness!
Jenny: I know, I know. Sorry I brought it up.
Kristin: [laughing] Also, there’s this moment – so when Ampata and Buffy are in Buffy’s room and Ampata’s getting ready for the dance, Ampata’s like – I just love this. She’s like, "you always think of everyone else before yourself, Buffy, and it reminds me –"
Jenny and Kristin: [in unison] Of me.
Kristin: Which is like, so perfect because Buffy definitely doesn’t always think of everybody before herself, just as Ampata doesn’t. So I just really loved that whole moment. You know?
Jenny: That’s pretty great. But they do have this cool moment where she’s sort of telling the tale of the Inca princess and saying how she – that only she could defend her people from the nether world, she is this chosen one. She gave up her life to protect her people –
Mey: She gave up her chance at romance.
Jenny: And Buffy’s like "that sounds like me."
Kristin: Yeah. And that parallel is kind of hit again with – you know, when – is it when the bodyguard –? Yeah, it’s when the bodyguard is in the bathroom with her that he’s like, "I understand what you’re saying but you’re the chosen one and you have to die." It’s verbatim what we saw in Prophecy Girl. And she’s like, "no, I have a choice." And then she kills him and sucks the life out of him, which is kind of what it looked like when the Master – like, the sucking of – you know what I mean? There was just a lot of overlap between these two. Apart, of course, from the fact that Buffy doesn’t – oh, there goes your patrol cat, Jenny!
Jenny: [gasps] Patrol Cat!
Kristin: We should tell everybody about your patrol cat.
Jenny: You guys, we have this cat in our neighborhood, he’s called Patrol Cat. By us. He’s like, if Chris Pratt were a cat.
Kristin: Chris Cat.
Jenny: And that – oh god. And that might be polarizing but like, you know. I don’t know how you feel about Chris Pratt. I think he’s generally pretty likeable.
Kristin: Yeah, for sure.
Jenny: Especially Parks and Rec Chris Pratt. That’s the iteration of Chris Pratt that this cat reminds us of. Anyway, every day, without fail, just as the sun is about to sink behind the mountains in our home, this effing cat just comes trot – we’re on the corner and he comes trotting up one side of the block and hangs a right and trots across our front porch and then trots under my studio window and trots off down the street.
Kristin: Every day, the same exact time.
Jenny: Same pattern. It is just – it’s my best moment of every day, I love it so much.
Kristin: It’s really remarkable. Mey, do you have a cat?
Mey: I do, yeah. Sawyer.
Kristin: Sawyer, right.
Jenny: [whispering] Right.
Mey: She’s beautiful.
Kristin: How old is Sawyer?
Mey: She’s like 10 or 11. She’s getting old.
Jenny: A sophisticated... lady of mature taste.
Kristin: Yeah. We just were talking to somebody whose cat lived to 21. Who was that?
Jenny: I can’t remember but that was a number that is unfathomable.
Mey: Oh wow. I like the sound of that.
Kristin: Right? You don’t know with cats, they’ll surprise you.
Jenny: They might just keep living to spite you. It’s possible.
Mey: True, true.
Kristin: Literally.
Jenny: Wait, what were you saying?
Kristin: What was I saying?
Jenny: Patrol cat…
Kristin: Oh, I don't know. I’m sure it wasn’t that important.
Jenny: So after we hear this tale again or a more detailed version of this tale ‘cause the hotel –
Mey: John Waters.
Jenny: Yeah, the John Waters guy. He looks like he works in a hotel to me, hotel John Waters. [crosstalk] Yes, exactly. He kind of gave the students the rundown a little bit on this mythology. But we’re getting a more in depth, more patriarchy-centric version from Ampata herself. And then we have – ugh. It’s just, like – this – as if there weren’t enough things to bum you out in this episode, they just slide white trash in there.
Kristin: Oh, right.
Mey: Oh yeah. It’s –
Jenny: That’s – ehhh.
Kristin: Not great.
Jenny: One thing I do like – maybe the best thing that Xander does in this episode is his salivating boy gibberish.
Kristin: [laughing] Yeah.
Jenny: Which I found very convincing and relatively charming.
Kristin: Yeah, yeah, yeah. It was alright, fine, sure.
Jenny: And then Joyce gets in there to just drop a little zinger.
Kristin: It’s incredible because Kristine Sutherland was paid to be in this episode literally for one line where she just called Buffy stubborn and then Buffy rolled her eyes. That was it, that was the whole thing.
Jenny: And then –
Kristin: The dance, it’s time for the dance.
Jenny: Before we get to the dance, the second thing that Joyce says is – and this –
Kristin: Oh, yeah.
Jenny: It’s meant to set up Buffy’s mirror of Ampata’s life where she’s like – you know, we’re highlighting that Buffy doesn’t have a normal life. But Joyce says, "oh, two days in America and Ampata already seems like she belongs here." [groans]
Kristin: Yeah, I always find – like, it’s a little bit hard for me to ingest those lines from Joyce. Because Joyce really seems like – she just doesn’t seem like the kind of mom that would pull that shit. You know, like, guilting Buffy for not going to the dance. Making Buffy feel shitty about burning down her school and wanting her not to get in trouble, fine but I just – I don’t know, maybe I just want her to not be that person. To you know, make her kid feel bad about not going to the dance.
Jenny: Oh, I was thinking more along the lines of…
Mey: Like a brown person doesn’t belong in America?
Jenny: Right, right. But all of a sudden, like, "she’s trying really hard."
Kristin: Ohh...
Jenny: Or like, she’s assimilating and she’s doing normal high school girl stuff and that makes it okay that she’s here.
Kristin: Ohh, I see. Well, yeah. That’s also a thing. I did not –
Jenny: I just want to crumple up this episode and throw it in the trash.
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah.
Mey: But it is like – it is the first episode that has a major Latina character, right? [laughs]
Jenny: But I want to pull that back out of the trash, smooth it out, and hang it up next to my little cutout of Ariana Grande.
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah, I mean... yeah. It is but I don’t know, is it better to have had it or not? You know? Is it more trouble –
Mey: I think she’s a pretty good character. Just, people don’t treat her well. You know?
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Yeah, she’s a dream, she’s great.
Mey: The world she’s thrown into is just racist.
Kristin: Super racist. Yeah.
Jenny: Mm-hm. Speaking of racist –
Kristin: Yeah?
Jenny: Let’s go to the dance!
All: [groan]
Jenny: [high-pitched] Cultures are not costumes? People are not costumes?
Kristin: Yeah, the woman… oh, it’s just bad. We heard Kate. Kate talked about it already but –
Mey: Theme costu – or theme parties are my favorite thing on earth. Like, I love parties where you have to go dressed in a costume.
Kristin: Right.
Mey: But this was like my nightmare. This was so bad.
Jenny: It was.
Kristin: Well, because yeah, exactly what you just said. It’s like –
Mey: Just a bunch of white people dressed as…
Kristin: As other…
Mey: A Japanese Geisha.
Kristin: As the most stereotypical…
Mey: And there’s someone dressed as an Arab Sheik.
Kristin: Oh, I didn’t even see that!
Mey: It was like a lot of bad stuff.
Jenny: Yeah, a lot of… yeah.
Mey: There’s a Native American costume. [sarcasm] That was nice.
Jenny: [groans]
Kristin: Yeah, so not good, not good, not good.
Jenny: I liked Jonathan's Crocodile Dundee outfit.
Kristin: Yeah, Jonathan!
Jenny: That was a ray of light, comparatively.
Kristin: Welcome Jonathan, who you don’t know has a name.
Mey: Yeah, I was gonna say, I don’t know who Jonathan is.
Jenny: The guy dressed as Crocodile Dundee.
Kristin: Yeah, that’s Jonathan
Mey: I thought he was dressed as the kangaroo rat from Rescuers Down Under.
Jenny and Kristin: [laugh loudly]
Kristin: Oh my god. Amazing. Rescuers Down Under, when did that come out?
Jenny: Great question. Fact check, fact check.
Kristin: Right!
Mey: Great question, first digitally animated film.
Kristin: Really?
Jenny: Really?
Kristin: Wow! I mean, it had to be around maybe like five years before this?
Jenny: 1990. And this is 1997.
Kristin: I almost nailed that shit! I don’t know anything, but the chronology of television and movies in the 90s, I somehow have a hold on.
Mey: Nice.
Kristin: Also another – speaking of awesome 90s references, the name of Oz’s band, "Dingoes Ate My Baby" is…
Jenny: Oh yeah!
Kristin: You know, like this very famous Australian story – not story. Reality, but was also referenced in Seinfeld , that’s like a very famous reference in Seinfeld .
Mey: Sure, haven’t seen that either.
Kristin: Yeah, there’s a whole episode where Elaine is screaming about the dingo eating her baby.
Jenny: Right, right, right.
Kristin: You know, obviously a news story that took the country slash perhaps the world by storm. And we have it here and is that – do you know if that’s the name of – do we see Dingoes Ate My Baby, is that…
Jenny: That’s Oz’s band, Devon and Oz’s band for –
Kristin: For a long time. Great. Oh, that’s how you know Devon? I don’t remember anything about Devon, but Devon’s a recurring character.
Jenny: Yeah, he’s just around, singing in Dingoes Ate My Baby for a little while.
Kristin: Alright, great.
Jenny: You guys, if you don’t know what the rat from the Rescuers Down Under looks like, I just want to encourage you to take a brief moment to go a-Googlin’.
Kristin: Can you show me? Can you flip it around so I can see it with new eyes?
Jenny: Um… yes.
Mey: It’s like, the exact outfit
Jenny: It is exactly what Jonathan is wearing.
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: Exactly.
Kristin: Wow, we’ll do – we’ll put up a side by side. Oh, if we can –
Jenny: Except he’s not wearing pants
Kristin: If we can find… yeah.
Jenny: ‘Cause he’s a rat
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah, well rats don’t wear pants so… that would be silly.
Jenny: [laughs] A side by side –
Mey: That would be very silly.
Jenny: We’ll do a side by side of Jonathan at the dance and the rat from The Rescuers Down Under.
Kristin: Yeah, and we’ll put it on Facebook and Twitter so you can check that out.
Jenny: That’s like – it’s funny because that’s a job or a practical type of dress for a particular climate or a particular activity. I don’t know what I’m talking about.
Kristin: That was your full thought, complete thought.
Jenny: Yeah, I’m sorry, I maybe should have just vetted that one before I opened my mouth.
Kristin: Also has Giles come over to Buffy’s house yet? ‘Cause that struck me as like a thing that I don’t know that we’ve seen before.
Jenny: I feel like he has been over one other time.
Kristin: One other time?
Jenny: With the gang, I think.
Kristin: Okay, ‘cause I was like, whoa, and you know… [laughs] Giles is up in Buffy’s room, like, where is Joyce? And what would happen –
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: How would he possibly explain why your librarian is in your bedroom? You know? Just thinking about that, that’s all. Just thinking about that. Also speaking of – can we – I just wanna talk about my appreciation for Giles as he’s putting the seal back together. [laughter] This is like, you know – if you had to distill what I love about Giles into a moment, it’s this, where he’s like – I don’t even remember the line he’s saying. But he’s like, "the twin... something" and he’s like, "oh, right, right, right." And he fucking finds the piece and puts them together. Ohh. He has my heart, that Giles. Mey, I know Cordelia is tippity-top of your list.
Mey: Oh absolutely, yeah.
Kristin: But you’re into season three now, do you have other favorites? Others –
Jenny: Wait, wait, wait we shouldn’t talk about…
Kristin: Well, no. I don’t mean – I just meant you watched a bunch of the series.
Mey: Well I mean I do like Oz a lot. I mean, not just for a guy, but overall I like Oz a lot.
Jenny: Yeah, what a dreamboat.
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah, Oz is pretty – Oz is good.
Mey: Jenny Calendar, of course.
Kristin: Of course.
Mey: I mean, being a witch, you know.
Kristin: You feel a connection to that techno-paganry.
Jenny: Yeah, techno-pagan vibe
Mey: I mean, Buffy and Willow, I like a lot.
Kristin: Has there been, especially at this point in the series when you got to this point – how were you feeling, from season one to season two? ‘Cause I feel like you had a big –
Mey: Oh, yeah, well – ‘cause yeah… I struggled through season one. You talked about that in a previous episode. [laughter] And you were much kinder than what I actually said. Like, I really struggled with season one. I did not know if I was gonna keep watching the episodes after season one. I was just gonna keep listening to the podcast and be like, okay, yeah, I don’t know what they’re talking about, but they’re cool people so I’ll listen.
Jenny: Well, what was your turning point?
Mey: It was… well, I think – I mean it’s – I think the episode where I really turned was "Halloween." So that’s in like two episodes from now.
Jenny: Ahh. That’s a good one.
Mey: ‘Cause it’s just like – I don’t know, I really like – and Cordelia is really good in that episode.
Jenny and Kristin: Yeah.
Mey: And it just had a lot of – and Willow’s really good in that episode.
Jenny: Yes.
Mey: And so there was a lot of really good character stuff in that one and so I think that’s the one where I was like, oh, okay, I’m really invested in this now.
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: Great, great.
Mey: So, yeah, now I really like it.
Jenny: Wooooo!
Kristin: Yeah.
Mey: Yeah.
Kristin: It’ll be fun – if you want to, it will be fun to go back to season one again. At least, if you have my experience – well, because I couldn’t – I actually – you made it farther than I did. Because Jenny tried to get me to watch it twice. And I couldn’t do it. And then this time, I was like awwww, like, you know, I had such an attachment –
Jenny: You had already developed affection for…
Kristin: Yeah, so I mean, listen. Nobody’s pressuring you, Mey.
Mey: Mmkay.
Kristin: But maybe one day you’ll want to.
Mey: [reluctantly] Mmkay.
Kristin: Maybe one day when we do another podcast called Jenny and Kristin Watch Buffy Again.
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: We just do it all over again.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: For the rest of our lives.
Jenny: The rest of our lives!
Kristin: It wouldn’t even take that – if we did back to back Buffy episodes and we cycled through them, we probably – even if we lived to 80, we’d probably only make it through the series a few times. It really takes three to four years to get through it. Cool, okay. Giles gets knocked out. That’s on my list as a thing, just want to say it and make sure. Right, it counts?
Jenny: Yep, oh, right.
Kristin: Does it count?
Jenny: Ding ding.
Kristin: Yeah ‘cause he’s unconscious.
Mey: When he gets thrown into the sarcophagus thing?
Kristin: Yeah, thank god someone said sarcophagus.
Jenny: Woooo!
Kristin : So, important moment that we don’t want to miss, of course, is Oz seeing Willow.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: Which is a really solid moment.
Jenny: [softly] "Who’s that girl?" Ugh.
Kristin: "Who’s that girl?" And then he’s like, "where’d that girl go?"
NOTES: [giggles]
Jenny: Oh, he’s so cute.
Mey: Also important moment: Willow knocking over the Eiffel Tower of cheese.
Jenny: Yes! [laughter]
Kristin: So good.
Jenny: None of that cheese looked French.
Mey: No.
Kristin: Nor fresh. It didn’t look fresh or French. [laughter] It looked horrible. I have nothing against cheese, but that was not my kind of cheese.
Jenny: Potentially sealskin jacket aside, I do really like Willow with a harpoon.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: I wouldn’t hate seeing more of that.
Kristin: And Willow with the –
Jenny: Oh, fur around her face? That pleases you?
Kristin: Yeah, with just her little head. It’s a good look. Like, she does look–
Mey: Yeah, she’s very cute, yeah.
Kristin: Yeah, she’s very adorable.
Jenny: I’m into – if she spent the rest of the show just wearing thermals and thick fisherman’s suspenders, I would be like, [coolly] yeah.
Kristin: And carrying a harpoon?
Jenny: And carrying a harpoon!
Kristin: Which would be so useful.
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: In so many different scenarios.
Mey: Very true.
Jenny: Absolutely, that would be ideal Willow for me. I’ll just keep dreaming that dream.
Kristin: Oh my gosh. Ugh, okay, I almost went off track and started talking about Willow and we can’t do that here because we’re staying with this episode and only this episode.
Jenny: Love hearing Buffy tell Giles that one of these days he’s gonna have to get a grownup car.
Kristin: Oh my god, this whole scene is my favorite thing in the entire world. I love Buffy and Giles in the fucking car where she’s rolling her fucking eyes. She’s like, "could you fucking go faster, could you put your foot down?" And he’s like, [stuttering] "I’m doing the best I can, Buffy." It’s just really solid. Really solid stuff. Yeah, and the Giles mobile – so loud, just cluttering and sputtering. [sighs happily]
Jenny: Also the great shrug sigh moment between Willow and Xander.
Kristin: Oh, yeah. Fucking Willow, man. And you know, the sad story is still really sad ‘cause she can’t kill Xander ‘cause she loves him –
Jenny: Except then she tries to.
Kristin: So then she tries to.
Jenny: But then she can’t.
Kristin: But she can’t. But then she tries to and fails, but she does really try to the second time.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: I think she’s probably gonna kill Xander the second time.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: But lucky for us, her body dries out and her arms stick to Xander and her body shatters on the floor so that’s cool.
Jenny: [grossed out laughing] No, thank you.
Kristin: I also really loved, speaking of mummified things, I really loved the moment when Buffy opened the trunk in her room and the mummy was in it. And she –
Jenny: And she didn’t see it?
Kristin: No, no, no, that one’s great too, when she didn’t see it. But when she does see it and she’s like – it’s as though she found some cheese sticks. [laughs] You know? She’s like –
Jenny: Who packs cheese sticks but doesn’t even bring lipstick?
Mey: Which she had lipstick in the bathroom scene earlier, so I didn’t understand that, when she told Buffy that she didn’t have any lipstick.
Jenny: Oh my god, great point!
Kristin: Yeah, what’s going on here?
Jenny: Just holes and holes.
Mey: Too many lies.
Jenny: Too many lies. Well, Ampata does say, "you haven’t been being honest with me either."
Kristin: Ohhh. Wow.
Jenny: There’s just a lot of deception going around.
Kristin: So once again, Xander saves Willow. Or chooses Willow, right?
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: We’ve seen this happen before. Why can’t I remember when? It was like, Willow and he stepped in and saved Willow. No? Am I making this up?
Jenny: That sounds familiar but I’m having trouble putting my finger on it.
Kristin: I can’t remember when. Anyhow, he obviously chooses his best friend.
Jenny: [gasps] Patrol cat again?!
Kristin: Oh, wow, seconds –
Jenny: Sorry.
Kristin: Patrol cat only comes by once.
Jenny: He circled back around to look into something, probably.
Kristin: He was like, "hey guys, they’re talking about me on a podcast." [laughter] There’s like five other cats with him.
Jenny: He’s like, "I’ll bet you three mice that I can get them to do it again."
Kristin: Patrol cat is such a badass that he can easily give three mice to any cat in the neighborhood.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah. Totally.
Kristin: Anyhow, what was I saying?
Jenny: Sorry. I don’t know.
Kristin: Ampata – whatever. Whatever!
Jenny: Oh, Xander saving Willow.
Kristin: Right, I mean, I think they continue to hit this theme over the head that although Xander doesn’t have a crush back on Willow –
Jenny: Best friends.
Kristin: That they have a love that is very dear and very true and very wonderful. And when push comes to shove that Xander will of course protect Willow at all costs. Which is a really awesome thing and a beautiful thing. And then Buffy, powerful as all get out, of course, knocks the lid off of the... sarcophagus? No. Is that what you said?
Mey: Yeah, sarcophagus.
Jenny: Yeah, note all the punch marks on the inside of the lid.
Kristin: Oh, really?
Jenny: Yeah, there’s all these knuckle marks.
Mey: Ohh.
Kristin: That’s great. And her knuckles aren’t even bloody.
Jenny: She’s a slayer.
Kristin: Yeah, she is, she’s the chosen one, so whatever. And then they win.
Jenny: Yay.
Kristin: And then they win.
Mey: Yeah. Beautiful.
Kristin: So you know, we’re really sorry that this episode…
Jenny: Is the way it is.
Kristin: Is the way that it is. [Mey chuckles] But we get a new episode next week.
Jenny: That will be fun!
Kristin: And that, I think, will be fun. You can tell me ‘cause I don’t actually know.
Jenny: Oh yeah, that’s the episode that we’re going to be taping –
Kristin: Live.
Jenny: Yes!
Mey: Oh yeah. I’ll be in the audience.
Jenny: Come on down.
Kristin: Yes, Mey, that’s great. Mey will be there, watching us live. For those of you who don’t know what we’re talking about, we are doing next week’s episode for Reptile Boy live at NerdMelt showroom in Los Angeles. And you can find out all about that at nerdmeltla.com. It’s on February 2nd.
Jenny: Is that the day after this goes up?
Kristin: It’s tomorrow!
Jenny: Oh my god!
Kristin: Hurry! Run, don’t walk. [laughter] Cool. Mey, do you have any final thoughts on this episode? Did we miss anything that was like –
Mey: Sexual tension award?
Kristin: Oh my god!
Jenny: Ugh! Great point.
Kristin: Do you have any –
Mey: I mean, I want to give it to Ampata and Willow for almost kissing there at the end.
Jenny: Nice.
Kristin: Yes.
Mey: It was so close.
Kristin: It was.
Mey: Like, three times she leans in. But not quite.
Jenny: It just wasn’t meant to be.
Mey: No.
Kristin: Wow, okay. Yeah, with you. I don’t have anything that can beat that, do you?
Jenny: Um…
Kristin: Oh, we have a challenge here from Jenny.
Jenny: No, it’s just like – I mean, look, I know that we don’t love Xander.
Kristin: Uh huh.
Jenny: Especially in this episode. [high-pitched] But I feel like there’s a lot of tension between him and Ampata?
Kristin: Well, yeah, but –
Jenny: But like, we’re bored by that. Okay, okay, okay.
Kristin: I feel like – no, here’s what I feel about the sexual tension award. I feel that it –
Jenny: It’s supposed to highlight something that’s not…
Kristin: No. It’s supposed to highlight something that is both – has sexual tension in the episode and that makes us feel happy about this episode. [Jenny laughs] It includes the viewer, I think.
Jenny: I see, I see. So there should be joy.
Kristin: Do we feel some sexual tension? ‘Cause like, I would not feel any when it came – you know what I mean?
Jenny: How about between Giles and the seal?
NOTES: [laughter]
Kristin: Yes. See, if there’s gonna be a second place, 100% Giles and the seal.
Mey: Good, good.
Jenny: There it is.
Kristin: Oh, god. And I can’t – that just made me really excited for the next time Giles and Angel have a conversation because –
Jenny: Oh my god. Oh, boy.
Kristin: Their sexual tension is just off the charts.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Great. Oh, thank you, Mey. Thank you both for reminding us about sexual tension and also –
Jenny: Nailing it.
Kristin: Yeah. Nailing sexual tension.
Mey: You’re welcome.
Jenny: So Mey Rude, thank you so much for joining us for this very special episode.
Mey: Yeah, you’re welcome. Thanks for having me.
Kristin: Yeah, you’re the best.
Mey: Thank you.
Jenny: Seriously.
Kristin: We love you for so many reasons but in the Buffering orbit specifically, you are a joy to interact with both on social media and on our phones via text messages.
Jenny: Yes!
Mey: Thank you.
Kristin: One of my favorite parts about doing this podcast is our friends who are enjoying the series now and texting us as they go. You and also our friend Steff Schwartz text us all the time with these incredible texts that I can’t even screencap and put on the internet yet, because she’s so far ahead.
Mey: She was the one who I was telling that I didn’t know if I was gonna make it past season 1. ‘Cause she was also starting and so we were talking and I was like, "yeah, no, season 1 is awful."
Kristin: Yeah, and she was like, yes.
Mey: It’s horrifying.
Kristin: It’s not good, it’s not good. But yeah, so thank you for all of that, you were fantastic. And will you tell everyone where they can find more of you? And trust us when we tell you, you want to find more of Mey.
Mey: Yeah. Well, like I said before, I write for autostraddle.com. And then I’m Mey Rude, M-E-Y-R-U-D-E on Twitter and Instagram and I think Snapchat also. But I don’t really know how to use Snapchat.
Kristin: Same, same.
Mey: But yeah, M-E-Y-R-U-D-E.
Jenny: All around.
Kristin: Yeah, you should check Mey out if you don’t already know her because she’s a badass. And Jenny, I guess tell them one more time where they can find you.
Jenny: Sure thing. I’m Jenny Owen Youngs, as you may already know, and when I’m not watching Buffy , I am writing songs and recording songs and doing stuff with those songs. And you can learn more about me and hear a playlist of those songs that are not about Buffy that I’ve curated just for you over at jennyowenyoungs.com/buffering. You can also give me a shout on Twitter at @jennyowenyoungs.
Kristin: And I am Kristin Russo and you can find more about me on Twitter @KristinNoeline. K-R-I-S-T-I-N – how do you spell the rest of it, Mey, do you know?
Mey: I... do not.
Kristin: [laughs] See and this is why I have to keep saying it!
Jenny: Yes, yes.
Kristin: N-O-E-L-I-N-E. [laughter] And of course, when I’m not sitting in this room talking about Buffy the Vampire Slayer and the patriarchy, I am talking about the patriarchy [laughs] at everyoneisgay.com and mykidisgay.com, resources for LGBTQ young people and their families. So you can check all of that out in all those places.
Jenny: Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on Twitter at @bufferingcast and on Facebook at facebook.com/bufferingcast. You can also email us at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com. We love getting your emails and we read them all and star them for future mailbag episodes and we really appreciate all of the fascinating things you guys have to tell us.
Kristin: Yes, so much. Also if you want to support us, we have have a Patreon page. It is just patreon.com/bufferingcast. The last time I checked, we were already halfway to our goal of $1000 per month.
Jenny: Woo!
Kristin: Which is really incredible. It helps us get the equipment that we need to keep things going, it helps us to have more time to devote to each of these episodes and it also gets you really fun stuff. I put up a video last week of Jenny and I writing the bridge to When She Was Bad. We share the mp3s of the songs with our $5 donors. We’re going to be doing a Buffywatch very soon with all of our donors. It’s a fun place for many reasons and you can check that out over there. You can also head on over to iTunes and leave us a review if you like us. If you don’t like us, that’s fine just – you can just–
Jenny: No pressure to leave a review.
Kristin: Shhhh, you don’t have to tell anybody. So thank you all again for all of your support.
Jenny: You can also grab a copy of our Songs from Season 1 CD and also shirts designed by Kristine Thune and also pins designed by the amazing Kate Leth, who you heard earlier on Buffy Fashion Watch, over at bit.ly/shopbuffering. Oh, yeah.
Kristin: Yeah and of course you can get all the songs from Season 1 anywhere you want. I think they’re –
Jenny: iTunes, Spotify, wherever you get your digital music. It should be there.
Kristin: Go forth and listen.
Jenny: Please!
Kristin: And Mey, thank you for being so patient while we told them all of that information.
Jenny: But you have a very important function now.
Kristin: Very important.
Jenny: You must join our pack.
Mey: Oh yeah, I’m very excited.
Jenny: If you please. Cool. ‘Til next time…
Jenny, Kristin, and Mey: Awooooooooooooooo!
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: Beautiful. [Jenny performing "Inca Mummy Girl" off the album "Songs from Season Two" by Buffering The Vampire Slayer] Well it's cultural exchange week here at Sunnydale High School And we're hostin’ lots of students who come from all over the world There's a special exhibition down at the Natural History Museum Where they're showin’ off remains of an Inca princess mummy girl Yeah, mummies always seem to come with a curse I never heard of one without And the Inca princess is no exception If the seal breaks the mummy gets out Wah wah wah wah And if she kisses you you're gonna wish that you ran (Inca mummy girl) Restoring herself anew, sucking the life from you, yeah (Inca mummy girl) Well Xander and Ampata seem to really like each other a lot now (Inca mummy, ooh, Inca mummy) And they're going on a date to the problematic dance at the Bronze (Inca mummy girl) Dingoes Ate My Baby are rocking just as hard as they can now (Inca mummy, ooh, Inca mummy) Thanks to a dreamy lead guitarist whose name is apparently Oz (Inca mummy girl, awooooo) This is inconvenient but we just found out Ampata was the mummy this whole time (this whole time) Xander's gonna be so totally bummed out But at least he saved Willow's life Wah wah wah wah And if she kisses you you're gonna wish that you ran (Inca mummy girl) Restoring herself anew, sucking the life from you, yeah (Inca mummy girl) And if she kisses you you're gonna wish that you ran (Inca mummy girl) Restoring herself anew, sucking the life from you, yeah (Inca mummy girl) Giles worked so hard gluing that plate Who knows if Xander will ever find a non-homicidal mate? Wah wah wah wah And if she kisses you you're gonna wish that you ran (Inca mummy girl) Restoring herself anew, sucking the life from you, yeah (Inca mummy girl) And if she kisses you you're gonna wish that you ran (Inca mummy girl) Restoring herself anew, sucking the life from you, yeah (Inca mummy girl)