Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 3.14: Bad Girls
[Clip from episode plays]
Faith: Tell me stakin’ a vamp doesn’t get you a little bit juiced. Come on, say it. [giggles] You can’t fool me. The look in your eyes right after a kill? You just get hungry for more.
Buffy: You’re way off-base.
Faith: Tell me that if you don’t get in a good slay, after a while, you just start itching for some vamp to show up so you can give him a good UH!
Jenny: Oh, hello everyone! [both laugh] How do you do? What a time to be alive and what an episode for us to discuss in just a few moments.
Kristin: Oh my goodness. [laughs]
Jenny: I’m excited! But before we jump in, we just have a few announcements.
Kristin: We do! Of course it is January, a new month, which means that we are writing five more lyric sheets, handwritten lyric sheets. Each month, we do five and the proceeds all go to a different organization. January, all of the money is going to Time’s Up, a unified call for change from women in entertainment for women everywhere. I think it’s thematic to the episode, too. Bad girls, nasty women, did ya watch the Golden Globes? Did ya hear Oprah’s speech? Did ya see when Natalie Portman said "all men"?! Ugh.
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: It was great. So you can go to bufferingthevampireslayer.com slash greater good, it’ll direct you to the page where we sell those handwritten lyric sheets. You can get one for yourself. You can get one for maybe, uh, a woman that you love. A powerful, badass woman that deserves something good! You can get her one of these and at the same time, you can also get all of us additional funding for this wonderful movement that has started that we believe in.
Jenny: You could also get one for your friend who’s sort of the underdog who nobody takes care of, who’s, like, living in the motel [Kristin laughs] even though there’s totally a guest room at the Summers’ house?
Kristin: Yeah, goddamn it, get one for Faith! [Jenny laughs] She deserves something.
Jenny: Also, oh– my– gosh. Guess what? In February, we will be doing one of our now infamous Buffy Watches for our patrons. If you wanna get in on that, you can definitely become a patron. Just go to our website at bufferingthevampireslayer.com and click on "Patreon." It will take you through a magical portal to our wonderful secret garden of excitement and joy. We’ll be announcing the date and all the details soon, so join us and see you February.
Kristin: Yeah, see you in February and every day until then. Listen, if you are so sad because you have just been wanting a "Smash the Demon Lizard Patriarchy" sweatshirt and they have not been in your size, don’t fear! They are back in stock along with many other items. We have restocked the store after the holiday chaos. And so you can find a lot of things over there, just go to bufferingthevampireslayer.com and click on "Shop." I want to let you know, the Randy For Giles pins are not back in stock yet. We are working on it. The last pin company we used sent all of our pins to Australia and they lost them forever, so we’re working with a new pin company. [laughing] And the pins will hopefully be back in stock within the month. We’ll let you know when they get back. But there’s a little button on the store page where you can click "notify me" and many of you have, so if you are after a product that is out, just click on that little notify button and then I think you get an email or something when the product comes back in stock.
Jenny: Whew! Okay. Before we get into this episode, just wanna warn you that Kristin got the chance to speak with Jack Plotnick, who of course you must already know portrays Allan. Allan, assistant to the mayor– Deputy Mayor, even?
Kristin: Deputy Mayor.
Jenny: I think that’s his official title.
Kristin: I believe.
Jenny: And she had an amazing conversation with Jack. He had so many fantastic stories, and we’re really, really, really excited to share that interview with you later in this episode.
Kristin: Yes! And everything that comes before and after that interview is just Jenny and I losing our minds. So buckle the fuck up!
Jenny: I, myself, am buckled. So let us now advance directly and without hesitation into the episode.
Kristin: [singing to the tune of "Bad Boys"] Bad girls, bad girls, what you gonna do? What you gonna do when they come for you?
Jenny: Kill a man!
Kristin: Aww.
NOTES: [THEME SONG]
Jenny: Hello! And welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast where we are watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer , one at a time. I’m Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: And I’m Kristin Russo, and this week, we’re talking about Season 3, Episode 14, "Bad Girls"! Otherwise known as, Season Faith, Episode…
NOTES: [Sexual tension award jingle plays] Sexual tension award!
Jenny: Can’t even get through the intro in this episode –
Kristin: Nope!
Jenny: Before we deal it out to those who deserve it.
Kristin: Yep, obviously it goes to Balthazar and the water! [Jenny laughs] Just fucking kidding! Faith and Buffy. You– listen. At the end of this whole thing, we’re gonna have a showdown for the Sexual Tension Award for the series. And I’m just putting my hat in the fucking ring, right here –
Jenny: This is the episode.
Kristin: For Faith and Buffy in this episode. I think it’ll take the season, I think it’ll take the series! Goddamn it!
Jenny: Just two gal pals– having it out –
Kristin: Pallin’ around.
Jenny: Yeah, that’s right.
Kristin: Wow. Wow, wow, wow. Anyway, we are professional ladies –
Jenny: Right, right. Ahem.
Kristin: Who run a podcast. We have business to attend to. [clears throat] Stay tuned at the end of this podcast every week for an original song written by us recapping the Buffy episode we’re discussing. And guess the fuck what— somebody wrote in and said, "Kristin, maybe you should say fuck less ‘cause it’s losing it’s meaning." [Jenny laughs] And to that I say, "I’m sorry. I can’t."
Jenny: Not this week anyway.
Kristin: Not today. Not today.
Jenny: Yeah, Jess Abbot is back with us this week, again. Reprising her role as Faith in the musical universe of our show. Hurray!
Kristin: Jenny and Jess have been writing, co-writing via Skype. And it has been a delight for me. I walk by and they’re arguing about what other sexy innuendo they could put in the song.[laughs]
Jenny: Right, right, right. It’s been a hoot. And I’m so excited for you to hear it.
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: Meanwhile… "Bad Girls" was written by Doug Petrie, directed by Michael Lang and originally aired on February 9, 1999.
Kristin: Wow, 9-9-9.
Jenny: Yeah. 9...9-9. Right, yes.
Kristin: Well, 2-9-99.
Jenny: Well, 2– yeah. Okay.
Kristin: Yep, great. [Jenny laughs] "Bad Girls" is the one where…
NOTES: [Sexual tension award jingle] Sexual tension award!
Kristin: [laughs]
Jenny: Okay, okay, okay, we have a lot to say. We’re not gonna play the Sexual Tension Award jingle a third time, probably. But, like–
Kristin: Probably? You think–
Jenny: We have a lot to get out of our systems. Sounds like someone else I can think of!
Kristin: Wow!
Jenny: Yeah, that’s right.
Kristin: If we– I want everyone to know that if we were in a studio where I had a button that played the Sexual Tension Award jingle– [Jenny laughs] you would be hearing it 1,000 times, ‘cause it’s my favorite joke. I keep stopping and looking at Jenny and being like, "Put it in again." [laughter] Anyway, this is the one where Faith convinces Buffy to live on the wild side with fatal consequences. Thank you, IMDB, but you don’t get it. [Jenny laughs] You know what I mean?
Jenny: Uh, yeah, this is also the one where Buffy and Faith are totally doing it. Right?
Kristin: Yeah, oh, yeah.
Jenny: Right?!
Kristin: Oh, yeah. I mean, we open– let’s just jump right in. ‘Cause we have a lot to say. Oh! And not only do we have a lot to say, but as you probably heard in the intro, we also got to interview Jack Plotnick! Who plays Allan.
Jenny: What a peach!
Kristin: So this episode is just gonna be– just full to its brim.
Jenny: We also have an installment of Kate Leth’s Buffy Fashion Watch from which you may never recover.
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah, it’s true. It’s– warning. Warning, lies ahead, risky business. [Jenny laughs] Is that the category that you would put Kate’s Fashion Watch in?
Jenny: Uh, yeah! That’s where I’d put it.
Kristin: Okay, so we jump right into this episode with same-time slayin’. We know how Jenny feels about same-time slayin’.
Jenny: I mean, if you’re gonna kick off this episode with anything, let it be a same-time slayin’. Let everybody be thrown to the ground in the cemetery at the same time.
Kristin: Totally–
Jenny: Vampire on top, mid-conversation. Faith cannot get over the fact that Buffy has never done it with Xander. And here’s why. Let me give you a window into the mind of a Sagittarius.
Kristin: Hey, that’s me!
Jenny: Faith is like, "I had sex with Xander. If Buffy had sex with Xander– [Kristin laughs] that puts me closer to Buffy."
Kristin: I think– I like that analysis. However, I think Faith just brings it up because she wants to be talking about sex.
Jenny: Both! Both. It’s a win-win. It’s a double-edged sex talk.
Kristin: I was gonna say, double-edged sword would have worked just as well.
Jenny: Well, yeah, ‘cause I guess there are swords– okay, fine, fine.
Kristin: [laughs] So I wrote an erotic novel 56 seconds into the viewing, are you ready?
Jenny: Great. I’m so ready.
Kristin: "What are friends for? All this sweating nightly side by side action, you never put in for a little after-hours unh ?" I spelled that U-N-H.
Jenny: That...noise.
Kristin: Yeah. The way I said it or the way that–
Jenny: Both!
Kristin: [laughs] I tried to read it verbatim from my spelling.
Jenny: That was the longest erotic novel you’ve ever written on this show.
Kristin: No, no, no. I’m not sure.
Jenny: It’s pretty long. It’s pretty long.
Kristin: But it could be one of the best.
Jenny: I’m surprised you didn’t include...an epilogue in your erotic novel. "This isn’t a Tupperware party."
Kristin: [laughs] Excuse me, Jenny, but that’s definitely not a part of my erotic novel.
Jenny: [laughs] ‘Cause we have different concepts of what’s appropriate to include in an erotic novel.
Kristin: Well, Kristine Thune, back in our live taping over at NerdMelt, said that perhaps she and I would collaborate on–
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: A zine of erotic novels.
Jenny: Kristin strikes out on her own without me.
Kristin: And I just wanna say to you, Kristine, if you’re listening, that Faith is wearing leopard print pants in this scene, so if that could be worked into your drawing–
Jenny: Great, yes, please.
Kristin: I would really appreciate it.
Jenny: Beautiful.
Kristin: There’s also the first little, like, tease of "bad girl" in this ep– in this scene, where Buffy is like, "Okay, I’m gonna count down from three." [Jenny laughs] Or whatever, and she’s like, "Three!" and Faith is gone. Or "one," whatever she starts with.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And Faith is already over the edge.
Jenny: Faith– the rules of "one, two, three, go" do not apply to Faith Lehane.
Kristin: I’m not sure that any rules apply to Faith.
Jenny: I’m not sure either!
Kristin: [laughs] So then we go to the mayor’s office.
Jenny: This is the best!
Kristin: Yeah, the mayor– so when we talked to Joanna– this season, Joanna was like, "You know, I really feel like you’re not giving the mayor as much excitement as the mayor is due." And for me, part of it has been, like, I know I love the mayor, but I don’t exactly remember? And we try to, you know, stay with the– where we are. But now we’re really getting into it. Now, like, this is a great episode for why the mayor rules.
Jenny: Yeah. This is a great episode for the mayor ruling and this scene in particular is a great CliffsNotes for...
Kristin: [giggles] Yes!
Jenny: Our sort of, like, cabinet of villains here. Right? We’ve got Mayor Wilkins equals Family Circus, with a snake inside.
Kristin: "That PJ!"
Jenny: [laughing] Mr. Trick equals Marmaduke! Because nobody can tell Marmaduke what to do. [Kristin laughs] That’s Mr. Trick’s kinda dog.
Kristin: That’s great.
Jenny: And Allan likes to read Cathy! Which is so great.
Kristin: [laughs] It is. It’s so good.
Jenny: Oh! I have a question. Have the anti-bacterial wipes always been stored in the dark arts closet?
Kristin: I– here’s the thing. I have a feeling that there are many places in that office that–
Jenny: Just every drawer–
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: And every door opens onto–
Kristin: Yes. A sanitizing cloth of some kind.
Jenny: Okay, okay.
Kristin: I don’t think the mayor is going to– like, for heaven’s sake, what if the cabinet was jammed and he couldn’t get in there? Then he’d just have to have dirty hands?
Jenny: Oh, no, no, no, no, no.
Kristin: No. Not acceptable. I think, yeah.
Jenny: That wouldn’t do. So like, speaking of acceptable, Willow got into every school!
Kristin: Yeah! You know, it’s funny. You and I were just talking about college applications, not appropo of this episode or really anything. But it reminded me of our conversation. Do you– ‘cause you applied to one–
Jenny: I applied to one school.
Kristin: School. Do you know– like, did you apply to one school ‘cause you were like, "I will go to this school or nothing" ? Or did you apply to one school ‘cause it was, like, 100 bucks or 50 bucks to apply and, like, that was your budget?
Jenny: It was, like, a little bit of both. There were sort of, like, three schools I was aware of that had a program that I wanted to get into. And one of them was a state school, which I had a better chance of being able to sort of afford or pay off over time. And the other two were, like, you know, 40, $50,000 a year.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: So like, those were deterrents. And of course the application fee was also a deterrent.
Kristin: Which is, like, really fucked up. That was kind of what our conversation led to when we talked about it the other day. I was like– ‘cause I applied to six colleges.
Jenny: That is so many schools! But also, that’s probably the norm. That’s probably what– kids do these days.
Kristin: Ehh, it was probably maybe a little over the norm? But, like, then I was like, damn. That’s– it’s really messed up. I mean, paying for college in and of itself is kind of messed up. [laughs] But paying to apply to the college–
Jenny: Yeah...
Kristin: Seems, you know...it’s almost as if this society that we live in is designed to keep more wealthy people at the top–
Jenny: [sarcastic] That doesn’t sound like a thing!
Kristin: That would be– no, that would be–
Jenny: No, that sounds– speaking of classism.
Kristin: [laughs] Yes!
Jenny: Cordelia is a piece of shit! [Kristin laughs] Cordelia is such an asshole and then Xander’s– Cordelia is classist. And then Xander is misogynistic.
Kristin: Well, actually–
Jenny: And then Cordelia is classist again.
Kristin: Oh– oh, is Cordelia classist twice? I think I only wrote down that "hooker wear" and then "my dad has a job." I didn’t get the first classist comment from Cordelia.
Jenny: Well, I guess she’s just sort of, like, making a comment about how he is a loser–
Kristin: Oh, he’s a loser.
Jenny: And he’s gonna keep being a loser and he’s, like, planning on being a loser. So maybe that– I mean.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Take that as you will.
Kristin: Cordelia really hasn’t been, like...given dim– I mean, we’re coming off "The Zeppo," where, like, she was super one-dimensional. But I feel like in this episode, too–
Jenny: I feel like most of the time, since they broke up–
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Like, there’s just been a lot of this. A lot of them clawing at each other.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And I’m ready for something new.
Kristin: I am too! I would like the depth and the layers back, for my Cordelia.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: Do you hear me, 1999 writers room?
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: Okay, so also–
Jenny: Oh, boy.
Kristin: Oz has black hair.
Jenny: Yeah, just outta nowhere.
Kristin: And I’m pretty sure– spoiler alert, not really. But I’m pretty sure this is just for this one episode.
Jenny: Yeah, maybe one or two.
Kristin: Yeah, it’s like, black hair Oz, what? And then it’s back to normal.
Jenny: Umm… [laughs] So many delightful things in this episode. It’s a Wesley Wyndam-Pryce!
Kristin: Oh! My! God!
Jenny: New watcher? New watcher. [Kristin laughs] Is he evil?
Kristin: Wesley Wyndam-Pryce– listen. We– you’ve got two Wesley fans in the room here. And he, like, comes– he just enters brilliantly. Like, the first thing he’s saying when we enter the scene is, "I’ve faced two vampires, actually. Albeit in controlled circumstances." [laughs]
Jenny: I mean, he’s so over the top and ridiculous. And I feel like Alexis Denisof is just like, crushing i t.
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: It’s like– ugh. Ugh. He’s just so– ah, I just wanna squish him.
Kristin: Yes, I do too. And so did Alyson Hannigan, as a matter of fact!
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: Most of you– all of you probably know this, but you know, Alexis Denisof and Alyson Hannigan met on the set of Buffy the Vampire Slayer. So we are not only watching the sexual tension award episode of the series for Faith and Buffy. But we are also watching the sexual tension award for– [Jenny laughs] Alyson Hannigan and Alexis Denisof.
Jenny: Wow. Wow.
Kristin: ‘Cause this is where it began. And according to my Buffy trivia, Alyson Hannigan was super into Alexis and wanted to date him. And he was like, "I can’t date a coworker."
Jenny: Far too professional.
Kristin: Far too professional, so yeah. He was like, "Mm, I’ve only fought two vampires under controlled circumstances." [laughter] And they were friends for over a year before they got together.
Jenny: Aww.
Kristin: Sounds like someone else I know!
Jenny: Wow. Gotta go!
Kristin: Just saying. I tried to date Jenny for a while–
Jenny: Sometimes it’s cool to be friends with people.
Kristin: And Jenny was like, "I’m so professional, I couldn’t possibly."
NOTES: [laughter]
Jenny: Yes. I couldn’t possibly date a coworker.
Kristin: I wanna talk more about this scene, but before we go full into it, I just wanna call back to the last scene. Because Willow has a comment about chemistry being like witchcraft, just less newt. [Jenny laughs] Which I love and I put in the category of Hellmath.
Jenny: Wow!
NOTES: [Hellmath jingle plays] Hellmath!
Jenny: Amazing.
Kristin: Okay, so back to Wesley. [Jenny laughs] I want– I wanna give a special shoutout to the shoulder move that Wesley does in this scene?
Jenny: Oh, god!
Kristin: Where he’s, like, [Jenny says simultaneously] "a good slayer is a cautious slayer." It’s just like–
Jenny: It’s so ridiculous!
Kristin: The move is so awkward and yet it looks like exactly what this character would do naturally, which is–
Jenny: Yeah, totally.
Kristin: Brilliant.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah! Yeah, he’s so weirdly stiff and proper and–
Kristin: It makes Giles look like Giles is back to his Ripper days!
Jenny: [laughing] Yeah, exactly! It makes Giles look like Ripper.
Kristin: [laughs] Giles is just being normal Giles, and we’re like, that guy is so cool!
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah, the cool older guy! Yeah, so we get a load of Wesley. Buffy gets a load of Wesley. Then Faith comes in–
Kristin: Oh, it’s great.
Jenny: And gets a load of Wesley and is like, "no thanks."
Kristin: [laughs] Which is amazing.
Jenny: And just leaves.
Kristin: Reminds of that scene with Cordelia where she’s like, "tact is just not saying things that you"– [Jenny laughs] whatever she says. Also, there’s like– we get all the backstory in this scene. Which, you know, Balthazar wants an amulet.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: Wesley thinks that Balthazar is dead already.
Jenny: Yep. Yep, yep.
Kristin: You know, he knows about swords, yada yada yada.
Jenny: God, it’s like who cares?!
Kristin: Right, who cares. I know, that’s how I feel about any note in my entire watch that isn’t about Faith and Buffy. [laughter] But also, something to note, just in general about this relationship is– I give a little bit of credit– Wesley is a pain in the ass. He’s kind of a nightmare and whatever. But I give him credit for, like, sticking– it’s hard. Like, he is coming into–
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: A situation that is about as awkward as it could be.
Jenny: Totally! New manager, taking over for fired dad.
Kristin: Right? It’s almost like– I used to be a nanny, and sometimes when I was a– most times when I was a nanny, it would just be me and the kids. But then I had a few jobs where the mom was like, "I’m gonna be here. But like, I just want you to take care of the kids." And it was always extra special awkward–
Jenny: Yeah...
Kristin: ‘Cause like, how do you really– you know, when somebody else’s actual parent is there, you’re like, unsure of your footing.
Jenny: Yeah! Ugh.
Kristin: And Wesley is and Wesley just goes for it. So credit to Wesley where credit is due.
Jenny: Yeah, I guess.
Kristin: But also, stop telling Buffy to fetch stuff.
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: That’s gotta go, man.
Jenny: Also, like, Wesley and Giles are at such odds and then as soon as the slayers are out of the room, they, while not looking at each other, take their glasses off–
Kristin: Oh, yes!
Jenny: Take their handkerchiefs out and clean their glasses in sweet, sweet unison.
Kristin: [laughs] That’s beautiful. We need to find that GIF, is what we need to do. Or make it ourselves.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: "We’re slayers, girlfriend! The Chosen Two!"
Jenny: How many times does Faith call Buffy "girlfriend"?
Kristin: At least three.
Jenny: At least three, right?
Kristin: At least three, that I counted. My–
Jenny: It’s a lot.
Kristin: So this is outside school, and they’re like, talking about slayin’. My main note is "flirt, flirt, flirt, flirt, flirt, flirt, flirt." [Jenny laughs] ‘Cause Faith is just– I mean, Faith is going hard. "Tell me if you don’t get in a good slay, after a while, you don’t start itchin’ for some vamp to come by so you can get in a good unh! " Again!
Jenny: So, yeah, here’s the thing, right? Okay, so in the Ann Rice Interview with a Vampire sort of universe, that’s the first time– the first incident I’m aware of that, like, vampires feeding equals sex. Like, that comparison is sort of made obvious.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: And I feel like this episode is sort of clubbing us over the head with– at least from Faith’s perspective– slaying is like sex.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Which we’ve– it’s been hinted at, with like, "hungry and horny"–
Kristin: Right, I mean–
Jenny: In previous episodes. But this episode, they are going hard!
Kristin: I just– I feel like that’s the seed of this episode is that the writer of this episode was like, "hungry and horny– that’s what I’m gonna use." [Jenny laughs] Because it’s used over and over again to underline the fact that what Faith is after is– and this is complicated. So I wanted to talk a little bit about the song anyway. Like, the creation of the song for today’s episode. And you’ll hear it down the line. First you’re gonna listen to us talk about Buffy and Faith doing it for awhile. But when we were conceptualizing the song, it was like, we want it to be about bad girls. Because there’s the throughline of the episode that’s sort of, like, sexuality, right? That it’s– I mean, this is not just two queer women reading between lines here. This is– these are the lines. [laughter] Like, this is straight up what’s happening. And so there’s that line, which is like, oh, it’s different, it’s not the norm.
Jenny: Mm-hm, mm-hm.
Kristin: And it’s ladies wanting to kiss ladies, it’s dangerous, like, dark in the shadows. Like, the Pulp lesbian hovels, right?
Jenny: Sure.
Kristin: And there’s a part of that that we love. But it’s lined up with Faith also breaking a bunch of other laws and rules and what have you. And so when we were conceptualizing the song and having initial conversations around it, I was like, well this is tricky, ‘cause we want the song to be all sexual innuendo. But then it’s like, is the message– ‘cause the message of the show is like, you can’t cross those lines and the show means...that you can’t cross–
Jenny: You can’t kill a man.
Kristin: You can’t kill a man! But because it’s laid over this parallel of, like, Faith’s desire for Buffy, the message of, like, "well, you can’t go too far with that ‘cause you’ll cross a line"–
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: Is super complicated. And I don’t think that that– I mean, maybe that’s rose-tinted glasses of me to not think that that was intentional. I mean, not intentional, but like– you know, I think that it– I think that what it is is that our common perception of sexuality when it isn’t heterosexuality is, like, dark and dangerous. Especially in, like, 1990– I mean, still today. But 1999, you know, it was still like, do you talk about it? Do you not?
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: That kind of a vibe? So it’s interesting to me and I love it. I love that it’s, like, not right over the head, and you’re like, oh my god!
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: But I also feel like there’s complicated stuff that happens because of that overlay. So I just wanted to say that.
Jenny: Yes. Um, you know what I wanna talk about?
Kristin: What?
NOTES: [Audio from episode plays]
Buffy: Wait! Stop, think!
Faith: No, no, no.
Buffy: It’s a manhole. Tight space, no escape, six against two, not unlike three against one!
Faith: And there might be more, so c’mon.
Buffy: You’re just gonna go down there? That’s your plan?
Faith: Who said I had a plan? I don’t know how many’s down there, but I wanna find out, and I’ll know when I land. And if you don’t come in after me, I might die.
Jenny: Fucking! "I don’t know how many’s down there, but I wanna find out." [Kristin laughs] "And I’ll know when I land. And if you don’t come in after me, I might die!" Hop! Ahhh! Listen. [groans]
Kristin: [laughing] Yes.
Jenny: There’s so many, like– I just want to frame– I wanna print out the script of this episode and frame every page of it and hang it all over our house.
Kristin: Yeah, I –
Jenny: Out of order.
Kristin: As the other person who lives in this house, I’m in.
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: Yeah, so this is the scene where Buffy is in the crypt. She’s, like, got the amulet and then she’s like, "oh no, men are coming!" And so she jumps into the crypt and while they’re looking at her, she pulls the cover over her head, but no one notices.
Jenny: [laughs] Mmm...
Kristin: And then Faith is there. Faith is just, like, four paces behind her.
Jenny: Boo!
Kristin: You know?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Faith was like, "I’m not coming. Just kidding!"
Jenny: Just kidding! [laughter]
Kristin: So then we go to Wesley and Giles again. I do like the cutaways to them sort of–
Jenny: Right, right. Oh my god, Wesley reading Giles’ early Watcher’s diary entries where he’s like, "ugh, this girl butchers the English language and she’s insolent and da da da."
Kristin: Yes. Now...okay, so–
Jenny: Oh! My god! Are you about to talk about what I think you’re about to talk about?
Kristin: I am, I am. The girls jump down the hole after each other or whatever. Then they’re in this fight. And they’re fighting the– what do you call these guys?
Jenny: Medieval times vampires?
Kristin: Yeah, but they have a name. Illuminati?
Jenny: Medieval times vampires?
Kristin: [laughing] Aren’t they, like–
Jenny: Illiminati, I believe.
Kristin: Illiminati, not to be confused with Illuminati. Ah, okay, medieval times vampires, they’re fighting them, and, like, Faith is like, up against the wall and she– oh my gosh, something’s gonna happen! So Buffy throws the stake across the room and is–
Jenny: [makes high-pitched propeller noise]
Kristin: Oh my god, are–
Jenny: I can’t!
Kristin: Jenny, are you– do you need to take a timeout?
Jenny: I’m usually fine, but this is too much!
Kristin: Her legs– Jenny’s legs are, like, crossed and then– [Jenny laughs] like, if you put your right leg over your left leg and then take your right foot and tuck it behind your left foot so that it’s, like, wrapped around itself? That’s how she’s sitting right now.
Jenny: I– listen. I’m all wound up.
Kristin: Literally. So anyhow, Buffy throws the stake and it’s like, whump, whump-whump. And it stakes the vampire. And then there’s this closeup. Now, you listen here. If you missed–
Jenny: Yo!
Kristin: If you missed this–
Jenny: You gotta go look at it!
Kristin: You have to go back. The way she looks at Buffy...
Jenny: The fucking, like, eyebrow raise? Of thanks? [Kristin laughs] And perhaps of, "I’ll be thanking you later"?
Kristin: Do you think–
Jenny: You know what I mean?
Kristin: Jenny, do you think that you would be open to us each trying to recreate that look that Faith gives?
Jenny: Absolutely not, under no circumstances!
Kristin: God, god, come on! What– can we get them to do– if they do– if our listeners do something for you– [Jenny laughs] will you do this for us?
Jenny: No!
Kristin: Seriously, nothing?
Jenny: No, I am Buffy the vampire slayer. I am not Faith the vampire slayer.
Kristin: I just want you to, like, try to recreate the face.
Jenny: There’s no recreating it, it is an isolated– it’s like fucking Halley’s comet, except way more rare! [Kristin laughs] And you just have to accept that. Just a regular person like myself can’t fucking wake up in the morning, brush their teeth and then try to make that face.
Kristin: That’s exactly the fun of it. So don’t worry, everyone, ‘cause I’m married to Jenny and I can get her to do anything–
Jenny: [skeptically] Mmm…
Kristin: And we’ll be both trying to recreate that look for our social media accounts.
Jenny: I hate you and I want a divorce.
Kristin: Good business people would say, "if we reach 6,000 Twitter followers," but not us! We just wanna have fun.
Jenny: Yeah, we do. [Kristin laughs] Except I don’t wanna have that particular kind of fun.
Kristin: Well, you’re gonna have it anyway!
Jenny: I know.
Kristin: Damnit.
Kristin: Okay, so then Buffy gets drowned again–
Jenny: Ugh! I hate it when they drown me.
Kristin: I hate it when they drown me. It’s nice, the way they edit it, too. They kinda do that same slow-mo that they did in the end of Season 1, you know? So you’re like, ohh, flashback! Oh, no!
Jenny: Right, right, yeah.
Kristin: And then, "tell me… you don’t… get off on this."
Jenny: It’s just, like– they’re in the middle of stuff. Like, this is not the time, Faith! They’re, like… busy.
Kristin: I mean, Faith I think believes it to be the– I think it–
Jenny: Yeah, I guess Faith is, like, "this is precisely the time."
Kristin: No, you know, we should talk about Faith in a general way.
Jenny: Yo! We totally should, because, I mean, there’s so much to say. Of course. In particular I’d like to talk a little bit about some of the conversations we were having with Jess Abbot while we were writing the song. Jess brought to our attention, you know the idea of once Faith is on the scene, everyone’s like, "Oh! Now Buffy, sweet golden Buffy, can go to college, can go away, can do whatever she wants." Faith obviously doesn’t care about her own life. She can just become the Slayer in Sunnydale now. Like, Faith dropped out of high school, Faith will do whatever we say.
Kristin: Yeah, and Faith–
Jenny: And Faith is still living at a motel! And she’s a child!
Kristin: [simultaneously] And a child.
Jenny: A teenager.
Kristin: She’s a fucking child! And, like, no one is taking care of her. No one is helping her out, and–
Jenny: Who is her legal guardian at this stage?
Kristin: Very few people are believing in her, or even pushing her. It’s like, you see that she cares. You see–
Jenny: They treat her like she’s a 30-year-old adult.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: They’re like, "well, you know Faith, she’s just off on one of her walk-abouts." Nobody’s like, "hey, that 16- or 17-year-old that we’re sort of responsible for may or may not be alive right now."
Kristin: Right, and you know, certainly, you don’t expect that from any of her peers. I wouldn’t expect anyone– Buffy or Willow or– you know, they’re all the same age, give or take. And so–
Jenny: But Giles, what the fuck? Joyce, what the fuck?
Kristin: Right, Joyce, Giles, Wesley, come on!
Jenny: Spike.
Kristin: Gwendolyn Post– you know what I mean?
Jenny: Angel.
Kristin: [laughing] Right, Spike and Angel. Just like, people who are… adults? And letting this happen and not stepping in and not sort of advising Buffy or any of the others to kind of step in on their behalf or anything.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Just– it’s just a lot. And, you know, as we see, this tragic thing happens, but we’ll get there. But oh boy, do we have some places to go first. Don’t we, don’t we, don’t we?
Jenny: [laughs and groans] Ahh! Science class!
Kristin: [laughing] Science class.
Jenny: So there’s, like– there’s a few things. First of all, the concept of the honor system test. The teachers leaving them alone for no reason. [laughter] Other than so that Buffy can leave class.
Kristin: We did a– if you’re a Patron of ours, you know that we do Buffy Watches and– for all of our Patrons. And the most recent Buffy Watch that we did was for "Bad Girls," and I think I remember somebody in the chat– so we watch the episode all together with anyone who’s in our secret Facebook group. And somebody in the chat, I remember, saying something like, "Well, you know that teacher’s got a cigarette to smoke." [laughter] Classic move where the teacher’s just like, get me the fuck outta here. Give these– like, they didn’t– the teacher didn’t care at all if they cheated or not. She was just like, "bye." [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah. So Buffy’s going, like, on and on and on and on and on and on.
Kristin: Yes. I wanna say something about this.
Jenny: Please.
Kristin: Because I know once we get past Buffy going on and on– [Jenny cackles] Jenny’s gonna spiral–
Jenny: There’s no turning back.
Kristin: Right, Jenny’s just gonna be sucked out of the door. [laughter] So I just– it called to mind something for me. Because this whole episode is just super queer. And Buffy is sitting in class and she’s talking to Willow. And she’s trying to explain to Willow– and there’s a huge disconnect between Willow and Buffy in this episode.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: And it’s framed– and I think that this is valid, also– that it’s framed in, you know, Buffy is breaking rules and is sort of, like, acting out and Willow isn’t and it’s putting a divide between them.
Jenny: Mm-hmm.
Kristin: But I also think we can apply this queer lens to it. And it just reminded me of– when Buffy is saying to Willow, like, "You know, I actually don’t think you can understand"– of what it feels like, oftentimes, when you are a queer person. And you are trying to, or decide not to try to, explain what you’re experience is like. And this, of course, applies too across race, across class. Like, our experiences, when we speak to other people who have not lived those experiences, can be really hard to communicate, and you can feel really isolated.
Jenny: Right, but also on the flip side of that, I feel like Willow is trying to relate to her on a very legitimate–
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Super natural level, and is just getting shut down out of hand.
Kristin: Totally. And that’s– I think that that’s– I guess for me, it resonated. Because I still have these moments where I’m like, "You just wouldn’t understand." I get really angry, you know? And the anger is valid. It comes from being in a world for my whole life that really wasn’t set up for people to easily understand me. And that can be very angering, but sometimes that anger and that isolation can manifest in me not actually noticing when I could relate to someone who doesn’t have the exact–
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: So there are two sides to it, but I just thought it was a cool thing to talk about. And it underlines, for me too, this experience why spaces that we share with other people who do share our identities are so precious and special and important. You know, that when we’re like, hey, this is a queer-only space. And people might be like, "but why?" Well, it’s like, because in that space, you don’t really have to explain–
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: A lot of the foundational stuff you might have to explain. And I’m putting a lot on this scene, but this episode has a lot in it, so I feel it’s fair.
Jenny: Yeah, I mean, so many sides.
Kristin: Jenny’s like, "whatever!"
Jenny: So many sides. Well, you know, there’s only one side to Xander’s eye twitch that occurs every time somebody says the word "Faith."
Kristin: That’s a great moment.
Jenny: Pretty great.
Kristin: Yeah, Xander–
Jenny: Well done. Good eye twitch!
Kristin: Yeah. Nicholas Brendan really knocks it out of the park on this, we gotta give him some credit. ‘Cause it’s good and when he’s like, "some people care about school!" [laughter] He’s like– it’s just a really good delivery.
Jenny: [laughing] Yeah. Oh, do they?
Kristin: [laughs] It’s a really good delivery. So–
Jenny: Oh, boy, and then [high-pitched] along comes Faith!
Kristin: [laughs] My ability to take notes loss– like, just was entirely lost at this moment. My– I’m just gonna read you, or try to read you, what I have written. This spans– this is all I wrote from the moment that the knock on the window happened, until they’re at The Bronze dancing. Okay? [Jenny sighs] And we’ll go back and discuss all these things in detail. But my full notes for that whole series of events is, "knock knock, whaaat?" Then I drew a heart with an arrow in it. "The hand sweep, come on! Ahhh! The ahhhhh!" [Jenny laughs] That’s it. That’s all my notes.
Jenny: Yeah, well, that’s one way to look at it all, sure. [Kristin laughs] Of
course. Um, another way to look at it is: [laughs and screams] Did you see that?! I don’t think I ever responded to this season the way I’m responding to it on this watch.
Kristin: Yeah. Well, you’ve never gotten to watch it together with thousands of people who feel the exact same you do. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah, yeah. Yeah. It’s…[makes buzzing sound with lips] It’s a lot. I mean, the most, maybe, used GIF of the series is–
Kristin: Is Faith–
Jenny: Faith, foggin’ up the window, drawin’ a little heart, puttin’ a little stake through it and then again with the fucking eyebrow. If–
Kristin: Her eyebrows are unbelievable! Emmy goes to–
Jenny: They’re unbelieve– if there–
Kristin: Eliza Dushku.
Jenny: That’s exactly what I was gonna say! If there was an Emmy for eyebrow use, absolutely Eliza Dushku would have won it for this episode. Good God!
Kristin: Yeah, it’s really incredible. And also, one of the first times that we re-watched this episode for the podcast, I was like, holy shit! All three of these scenes happen within, like, just a few seconds! Like, they’re just– it’s like, boom, she’s at the window. Boom, there’s the scene with the light behind them with the stakes.
Jenny: Mm-hm, mm-hm, mm-hm.
Kristin: And then boom, they’re dancing in The Bronze.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay, okay okay okay.
Kristin: Okay, sorry, I’m sorry. Okay, great.
Jenny: So, oh my god, again with the "Hey girlfriend, bad time?" And like, I found a nest, let’s outta here. [Kristin laughs] Buffy just, like, climbs out the window and leaves school. Good God.
Kristin: Yeah, Willow’s like, "huh?" [laughter] Willow’s like, what in the hell–
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: What in the queer storyline is happening?
Jenny: Yeah, yeah. And then we get, like, closed doors inside of a crypt. And that, like, great [makes long sound that rises in pitch slightly]– string sort of slow slide that sounds so creepy. And then they bust through the doors and there’s sunlight and they’re silhouetted. And they’re like, quip, quip, unison stake draw! Hell yeah! [Kristin laughs] Wow! What a great thing to be able to watch. What a time to be alive.
Kristin: But then, it was like– ‘cause there are three GIFs that I see and maybe my– the GIFs I see are a little...biased because I’m a queer woman.
Jenny: Sure.
Kristin: But the GIFs I see the most from this series are–
Jenny: Those three.
Kristin: Faith with the heart, the two of them walking through that door with the light behind them, and them dancing at The Bronze.
Jenny: Oh! My! God! Okay, so now we’re like– we’re really at peak– we’re on the top of the peak of Mount– fucking–
Kristin: Sexy!
Jenny: Slayer– fucking tension– gah! So now that we’re up here, it’s probably time for Kate Leth to plant the flag.
Kristin: I mean, listen, if Kate Leth lives anywhere, it’s at the peak of this mountain.
Jenny: [laughs] Yes!
Kristin: So we– you know, we just have to ask Kate for just a regular Fashion Watch– Kate, can you give us a...
Jenny: Yeah, just something, uh...medium?
Kristin: Whatever you...think? And Kate delivered the following to our email inboxes and we– deceased. This is the ghost of–
Jenny: We are the ghosts of Buffering the Vampire Slayer.
Kristin: Yeah, sounds a lot like–
Jenny: Killed by Buffy Fashion Watch.
Kristin: Yeah, just a little more opaque but really the same deal.
Jenny: So you’ve been warned. This may be the last Buffy Fashion Watch you ever hear because it may kill you dead.
Kristin: It may. Here we go!
NOTES: [Buffy Fashion Watch jingle plays] It’s time for our friend Kate To give you the Buffy Fashion update!
Kate Leth: [sultry voice] Hello and welcome to Buffy Fashion Watch. [clears throat] There’s so much to say, I don’t know where to start. With Faith at the window pane, drawing a heart. Her nails, her expression, the thumb ring she wears, the way she delights in B’s curious stares. The snakeskin, the pleather, the black denim jacket. Her grin, stealing weapons and causing a racket. Those dark crimson lips when they’re not painted brown, beguiling her partner to take on the town. Poor Buffy, sweet Buffy, entranced by her looks, is dressed like she’d rather be drowning in books. This episode has her in soft baby pink, until Faith’s "hey girlfriend" is launched with a wink. Then out comes the leather, the black chunky heels, the loaded exchanges on how slaying feels. Just dancing to Curve at The Bronze late at night, to work out the rush they’re both feeling, post-fight. Not Angel, not Xander, no boys are allowed. Not Wesley, not Willow, ‘cause three is a crowd. Is Buffy’s descent ill-advised? Sure, in theory. But if you’ll attend me, I’ll pose you a query. Would any among us be better equipped to argue if Faith beckoned us to a crypt? Or would, like our heroine, we simply fall? Think on it. I’ll be waiting here at the mall.
NOTES: [Buffy Fashion Watch jingle] That was our friend Kate She gave you the Buffy Fashion update!
Jenny: Kate! I love you, Kate! You’re perfect, Kate!
Kristin: Wow!
Jenny: A fashion watch!
Kristin: [sings a few guitar notes] "Peroxide" would still work for Kate.
Jenny: Oh yeah! Wow, I can’t handle it. I can’t take it, I can’t possibly continue to live in this world!
Kristin: We bow down before ye. We are just humble ghosts.
Jenny: [laughing] Humble ghosts.
Kristin: Just humble ghosts at your service, Kate Leth. Holy shit.
Jenny: Thanks, Kate. For being so amazing. Okay so, listen, about the sexy dancing at The Bronze.
Kristin: Yeah, about it, what about it, Jenny?
Jenny: When did The Bronze get those flashy lights? When did The Bronze start playing, like, off-brand Prodigy songs? And when did The Bronze acquire this, like, pod of very hygienic dancing boy bots that swarm around Buffy and Faith?
Kristin: I think somebody tipped them off to this episode. [Jenny laughs] They were like, hey, guys, there’s gonna be some girl-on-girl dancing.
Jenny: We’re gonna need you to step it up next week, so uh…[laughter] That’s definitely the most dancing that The Bronze has seen.
Kristin: Yeah. We’ve seen some sexy dancing, but–
Jenny: But that’s, like, the highest energy sexy dancing, for sure.
Kristin: Yes. I mean, I think it might be the only strobe light we’ve seen at The Bronze, right?
Jenny: Probably, yeah. I feel like it never gets above mid-tempo in The Bronze.
Kristin: Right. You know who never gets above mid-tempo?
Jenny: [laughs] Angel?
Kristin: Angel. Who, like, walks in and looks at what’s happening. And I just would like to frame that moment as well, of like–
Jenny: Yeah, it’s very like, "I seem to have stumbled into a parallel universe."
Kristin: [laughs] He’s like, "all of my senses tell me that something is happening here, and yet I know that couldn’t be happening here." [laughter] And then Buffy sort of like goes over to Angel and jumps on him.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: Wraps her legs around him, and he’s all like, "uh…"
Jenny: Yep, yep, and she’s like, "Don’t worry about all those boys. Blegh, boys, gross." [Kristin laughs] And then, and then! And then, as if that wasn’t enough of a party at The Bronze, oh, look, it’s Wesley!
Kristin: Oh my god, and Wesley is as flummoxed as Wesley could possibly be. He doesn’t know what’s going on, no one is telling him anything. [Jenny laughs] Buffy’s like, "oh, the amulet? Just give it to this guy," which, Wesley, why do you give it to him? You don’t even know who he is.
Jenny: He doesn’t even have a choice. She takes it out of his jacket and hands it to Angel.
Kristin: Yeah, I guess that’s true, but you’d think he would be like–
Jenny: I mean...Wesley doesn’t have the power of– like, as we see really soon. He does not have the spine.
Kristin: But you’d think he would at least ask the question.
Jenny: Well, it all happens so fast.
Kristin: It does, he’s very confused.
Jenny: He’s in a youth culture environment.
Kristin: [laughs] Buffy–
Jenny: Oh my god!
Kristin: Runs over to get Faith, [Jenny squeals in background] pulls her away, and what does Faith say, Jenny?
Jenny: Oh my god. She says "call me" while pointing to every boy seven times. [Kristin laughs] Which is so great. So great as she’s pulled off the dance floor. And then we meet Balthazar, who it turns out is alive and his head minion is Vincent Vaughn, the medieval times vampire.
Kristin: Right. Totally. A hundred percent. Balthazar is, you know, most known for his famous line, "Get! My! Amulet!"
Jenny: [laughs] He loves to scream various things.
Kristin: He does. So Balthazar is a villain that sits in a jacuzzi of hot, boiling liquid that people spoon over his body. Which is– certainly, he’s related to the Master, I will tell you that right now. They’re cousins.
Jenny: [laughing] They have similar...
Kristin: Oh, yeah!
Jenny: Their mouths are very similar.
Kristin: Their mouths are bad. They are bad.
Jenny: He also has, what somebody in our Buffy Watch dubbed, "mutton chomps."
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah, yeah.
Jenny: Which are, like, teeth, sort of, where mutton chops would normally be.
Kristin: [laughs] Horrible. Just horrible.
Jenny: It’s a rough look.
Kristin: He’s a very, very specifically horrible demon. But something that I brought up a little bit when we did our live watch is that– and I thought this before Buffy comes in and quips her first joke about Balthazar, which is like, "That guy could really use a Stairmaster." Which is, like, hmm. Something’s happening here. Like, there are things that definitely will always drive me nuts, such as teeth that are pointy in a tiny little mouth that makes me wanna die. You know?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Always will make me wanna die.
Jenny: Uh, yeah.
Kristin: But there’s a play that’s happening here where being fat is also associated with being unclean, being lazy, being– you know, all of these super negative stereotypes that are often assigned to being fat. And in this case, it’s quite literally demonized and poked fun at.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: It’s almost like– you know, it’s almost like, "well, this demon, he’s bad because he kills people, but like, he wouldn’t be as bad if he wasn’t as fat."
Jenny: Yeah, you know, why did they have to take this episode–
Kristin: This beautiful episode!
Jenny: Which is full of everything that I lo– it’s nearly perfect. [Kristin laughs] It’s 98% composed of things that make me very happy. But then there’s this sliver of fat-shaming and cruel stereotyping.
Kristin: Yeah, it’s not great. And it’s also something that I think goes very unnoticed, which is why I want– which is why we want to call attention to it.
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: That you’re sort of, like, "ahh, the guy! He’s sitting in that tub and he’s– blagh!" And like, I think a lot of people’s minds are not trained to be aware of what’s happening here. Because, you know, fat-shaming is a thing that happens, but it’s also something that’s really perpetuated by the media. You know, the media has a big hand in giving us, you know, joke after joke, character after character–
Jenny: Sure.
Kristin: That does these kinds of things. So it’s certainly not isolated to this episode of Buffy by a long shot and–
Jenny: But because it’s here, we want–
Kristin: Yes. We see it.
Jenny: To note it.
Kristin: We note it. Now, Balthazar– they see– so Buffy and Faith see Balthazar. And Faith is like, "You know? This would be better if we just had –"
Jenny: Oh, look! A bow and arrow store!
Kristin: [laughs] It’s like a sporting goods store? Is that–
Jenny: It’s a sporting good store. And Buffy’s like, "If only they were open." [Kristin laughs] And Faith’s like, "They’re open for me!" Guitar solo.
Kristin: Also, this music– the music is like [imitates guitar notes] [sings] "Criminals doing criminal things! Doo-doo-do-doo!"
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah, and Faith introduces Buffy to one of her most memorable philosophies.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Want, take, have. And Buffy’s like, "oh, I get this. Want… take… have…" get arrested? [Kristin laughs] And Faith’s like, "no! No! You’re doing it wrong!"
Kristin: [laughing] You’re doing it all wrong. So also, Faith has a great line in this scene. The cops show up and they’re like, "oh shit!" And of course, Buffy’s like, just terrified.
Jenny: Of course.
Kristin: And Faith is… scared, but Faith is quipping.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: Faith is, like– it’s like Buffy to demons is Faith to cops. You know? [Jenny laughs loudly] Like, she just–
Jenny: Amazing.
Kristin: She’s just full of quips.
Jenny: Yeah, she– Faith never quips at demons, does she?
Kristin: No, she’s got all the quips in her heart for all the cops in the land.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: She’s not having it.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: She’s–
Jenny: The cop’s like, "spread ‘em" and she’s like, "You wish!"
Kristin: Yeah, and then, "I like him, he’s butch." [Jenny cackles] Oh yeah, you like butch...things?
Jenny: Umm...ahem.
Kristin: Great, great, great.
Jenny: Ahem. Then we– so the cops are taking them downtown. They’re like, "What, are you girls loading up for– in your arsenal for your girl gang?"
Kristin: Yes! This is great. So I’m reading– our secret Patreon people do wonderful things and we’ve mentioned before they have a book club. And the first book that they’re reading for their book club is a book called The Power, where suddenly, women develop this electrical current that they can discharge through their palms. And it’s, you know, you would imagine what might happen to the power dynamic in the world if that happened.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: So just watching this scene reminded me of what I’m reading in this book. Where they’re like, in the back and the cops are like, "What are you, one of those girl gangs?" and they’re like– and Faith’s like, "Yeah, we’re called the Slayers." [Jenny laughs] And they’re like, "ha-ha-ha!" And then the girls are like, zap! You know?
Jenny: Or in this case, foom! As they–
Kristin: Yeah, and I would like to give a particular jingle to this moment, Jenny, because I think that our slayers, as the male– as the white, male cops chuckle to themselves about the silly girl slayers in the front seat and they say "ha-ha-ha, zap." I think they’re smashing something.
NOTES: [THE PATRIARCHY jingle plays] The patriarchy! [thunder clap, evil laughter]
Kristin: You know, you can only smash the patriarchy double if you’re not only smashing the patriarchy, but you’re sleeping with the lady friend that you’re smashing–
Jenny: Oh! My–
Kristin: – the patriarchy with! Double smash!
Jenny: – goodness, wow.
Kristin: Bam! Boom!
Jenny: Speaking of "double smash," um, you know what I can’t understand? The three very popular gifs from this episode, I don’t understand how they’re not in a, uh, quartet with the gif of Buffy and Faith uncuffing each other!
Kristin: [laughs loudly]
Jenny: Hell yeah!
Kristin: [still laughing]
Jenny: A+!
Kristin: You can make that gif, you know.
Jenny: Jenny Owen Youngs, voter choice award… best gif… that doesn’t exist… Buffy and Faith –
Kristin:– uncuffing each other.
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: Beautiful. So, okay, so, they uncuff each other, and then we cut to, um, the kitchen, where Buffy… Okay, so, fine, Buffy’s reading the
newspaper, ‘cause she’s like: [dramatic voice] "Oh, man, is anybody gonna know that two girls flipped a cop car? Oh, man, oh, man..."
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: But what I really wanna talk about in this scene is that this episode is called Bad Girls, and I feel like a little nod was given to Joyce Summers–
Jenny: Wowww.
Kristin:– who’s dressed in her red robe–
Jenny: Yess.
Kristin:– in the kitchen. She walks over and she says: [dramatic voice] "Hey, you wanna… break our diet today?"
Jenny & Kristin: [laugh]
Kristin: I just thought it was really funny and sweet and wonderful that Joyce got to be included in the Bad Girls club!
Jenny: Yeah! She just wants to make some naughty waffles!
Kristin: [laughs loudly]
Jenny: Don’t we all.
Kristin: Don’t we all, Joyce.
Jenny: So… then we get to see the Mayor taking a quick photo with the boy scouts.
Kristin: Yes! And he says "they’re so cute I could just eat ‘em up!"
Jenny: Great. Great. Shortly before, uh, Vincent Van, the medieval-times vampire, stumbles out of the liquor cabinet –
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny:– and tries to kill the Mayor.
Kristin: Right! And there’s a moment in here that Jenny has noticed, and probably most of you have noticed, but I hadn’t noticed it until this watch. Because, so, we’re gonna get to Allan, obviously, we’re gonna talk to Jack Plotnick, and we’re gonna talk about Allan in detail, but this moment that happens where Allen is standing in the corner, and the guy has gotten in
that cabinet somehow, and the Mayor’s like: "I just can’t imagine how he would have gotten into that cabinet" and Allen is, like, flummoxed and flustered.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: And I didn’t – I always thought it was just a little bit more unclear as to what was happening with Allan’s character, but now I feel like it’s actually –
Jenny: It really feels like Allen is, uh, having second thoughts and looking for a way out.
Kristin: Yes! Yes. So just noting that, pointing it out…
Jenny: So…
Kristin: So… [high-pitched voice] Willow...
Jenny: [high pitched, sympathetic voice] Willow made a protection spell that smells nice –
Kristin: Aww, it’s so sad!
Jenny: [high-pitched voice continues]– but Buffy doesn’t care because she’s too busy with her new friend Faith!
Kristin: Yeah it’s really sad. Willow can’t come… Poor Willow! And Faith, like, barges in, and is like, [dramatic Faith voice] "You ready, B?"
Jenny: [continues voice] "I’m here in my puffy vest!"
Kristin: [laughs] [continues voice] "I’m here, looking like Faith. Ah!"
Jenny: Um, yeah.
Kristin: And Willow is so sad. And the last little moment of this scene –
Jenny:– of Willow being like, [whispers] "Stupid…"
Kristin: "Stupid!"
Jenny: Nooo!
Kristin: Nooo!
Jenny: Willow! No!
Kristin: Give her – Give Willow her jingle. She deserves it! She’s gone through a whole episode of being ignored!
NOTES: [WILLOW jingle plays] Who knows the square root of 1,225? Willow! Who is gentle of heart and nimble with a hard drive? Willow! Willow, Willow, Willow.
Jenny: I don’t understand why Willow and Buffy and Faith can’t all go… do… stuff together!
Kristin: [laughing] What are you trying to say, Jenny??
Jenny: ...And hang out. Just, I mean, one is blond, one is brunette, and one is a redhead!
Kristin: Ohhh.
Jenny: It only makes sense.
Kristin: What a great spinoff series! [laughs]
Jenny: Um…
Kristin: [laughs]
Jenny: Ripper’s Angels ?
Kristin: Wowww.
Jenny: Um…
Kristin: Copyrighted! It’s copyrighted. I just– you can– That’s how you copyright something, right?
Jenny: You just say "copyrighted" on your podcast.
Kristin: You just shout "copyright…"
Jenny & Kristin: [laugh]
Kristin: Uh, Faith has another line here: "How do you feel about getting some ribs after we…"
Jenny: Oh my god! [growls]
Kristin: She’s like, "Hey, I don’t know if you remember–" Like what she
means is, like: [dramatic, low voice] "Hey I don’t know if you remember what I said back in like, earlier this season, about, like, getting hungry and horny, [Jenny laughs loudly] but, like, what I’m saying is, like, do you wanna eat some ribs, so, like, what I also mean is, like, do you wanna do it??
Jenny: Listen! [sighs] Yes. Okay, also, her new, like, uhh… The continuation
of this thing where Slayers are like: "I love a weapon that I have to load repeatedly with one projectile at a time…" Faith’s new camouflage compound bow.
Kristin: Yeah, it’s cool though!
Jenny: Um? Yeah?
Kristin: She looks— it looks—
Jenny: It’s just impractical.
Kristin: But like, you know, maybe with— with being a slayer you want like even more of a challenge, you know it’s like— give it a add—
Jenny: Yeah, I guess...
Kristin: add an element of difficulty.
Jenny: That's… an aspect.
Kristin: So, okay, so at— so there— so Faith and Buffy are going through the alley and and Faith makes a really good observation, she like, and Buffy’s like "I don’t think we’re gonna be able to take them all" and Faith’s like "I mean, if they keep coming one at a time".
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: "We’ll be fine".
Jenny: It’s basically a video game.
Kristin: It’s a weird tactic by the Balthazar dudes, uh… to— to not— to just be like "Okay, you, 5 feet down. You, 5 more feet down".
Jenny: I just feel like maybe like if vampires could get organized like a slayer would never live more than a few days.
Kristin: Yeah, well...
Jenny: Just like get all of yourselves together.
Kristin: [laughs] Maybe that could be said for all the evil in the world, you know?
Jenny: Wow...
Kristin: [sings] Take ‘em down, take ‘em do-own [stops singing] Anyway, so, uh, Faith is slaying one Balthazar dude and then Buffy’s slaying another Balthazar dude and they’re like "Pow! Pow! Pow!" and then they round the corner and this is really important, the details of this scene, right?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: ‘Cause they have, they’ve established a pattern.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: They kill— Boom another one pops out. Kill— Boom another one pops out. Kill—
Jenny: They’ve got their rhythm.
Kristin: Then— Boom… Allen is in the alley, we don’t know why, and Allen grabs one of their shoulders. I think Faith, but maybe—
Jenny: I think he grabs Faith’s shoulder, yeah.
Kristin: I think Faith, but either way he— he grabs a shoulder and so of course—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Faith instinctively...
Jenny: Reflexively...
Kristin: Reflexively, instinctively whips around...
Jenny: In the heat of the moment...
Kristin: and stakes… poor Allen.
Jenny: Poor, gentle Allen who seems to have been on his way to share information about the mayor.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: If you ask me.
Kristin: That— yeah, if you ask— and you know if you ask Jack Plotnik I think he may have some similar hopes and— I don’t know if you realize this Jenny, but I got to ask Jack Plotnik.
Jenny: [fake disbelief] You did?
Kristin: I sure did!
Jenny: Oh my god!
Kristin: So I think now would be a great time for us to hear this interview. Jack is, as you are about to find out, a delight upon delights. He is a delight on Delight Mountain, is what he is.
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: And I was so excited, I went over to his apartment here in Los Angeles and we had a good chat and uh, you’re gonna hear some really fun stories! So let’s get into it.
NOTES: [Chime]
Kristin: So hello! And welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer. Thank you so much for talking to me.
Jack: I am so happy to be here, Kristin. This is just so fun to have you here in my apartment! And we’re talking about Buffy!
Kristin: Right? I was gonna say, when I walked in, I felt immediately at home. You’ll be hearing this after the holidays, but I want you to know that inside of this apartment, there is an Elf on the Shelf. [Jack laughs] There are three– four?
Jack: Four. [laughs]
Kristin: [laughing] Christmas trees. So it’s pretty exciting. Very much in the spirit.
Jack: And I’m a Jew. [both laugh]
Kristin: Incredible.
Jack: And by the way, two of the Christmas trees are props for a show I’m putting up. But the big Christmas tree is totally mine. ‘Cause I love… I’m gay, I love glitter, I love Christmas. [Kristin laughs] I grew up in a very Christian-y neighborhood and I grew up in all of those choirs. And so when I hear these songs, it just brings me right back to childhood.
Kristin: It’s so nice. Christmas spirit.
Jack: It’s a better– I’m sorry, Christmas is just better than Hanukkah. [Kristin laughs] It’s got better songs, better characters, better gifts. So.
Kristin: Anyhow!
Jack: So I’m Jack Plotnick.
Kristin: You’re Jack Plotnick!
Jack: Yes, and I portrayed– in the show, I portrayed the deputy mayor of Sunnydale.
Kristin: A character beloved to my heart, and to so many people.
Jack: That is so sweet of you. It’s beloved to my heart too. I treasure the memories and to me, it was a huge honor. Yeah, huge.
Kristin: Yeah. I mean, I can see why.
Jack: To be on the show and to have a role where, you know, I had some little impact.
Kristin: Yes! I think a pivotal– it’s a pivotal role, it’s a role that people remember.
Jack: Well, it’s the only… is it the only human that a slayer kills?
Kristin: I believe so, yeah, I mean–
Jack: Certainly the first big one.
Kristin: Some of the lines are wiggly, but right, that’s the plotline, especially of this episode, is, "wow, we’ve crossed a line." Faith, specifically. But start at the beginning. How did you wind up–
Jack: [singing] Start at the very beginning!
Kristin: I queued you up for that.
Jack: [singing] I have a beautiful voice!
Kristin: [laughs] So how did you come to the show?
Jack: Well, I had just arrived in LA only about maybe a year or two earlier. And I think this was probably the first dramatic series I booked, so that was a really big deal for me. Honestly, when I got the audition, I did not know the show. It had only– you know, I just– I wasn’t watching a lot of TV at the time and it was just not on my radar. But what was very exciting was that it was a drama and it was a really classy casting director and I was super excited to go in. And when I booked the role, I was over the moon.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jack: When I arrived on set, you know, it was a very strange thing to walk through Sunnydale and not know what it was. And PS, by the way, later I became the hugest Buffy fan. So just know, to me, it’s top three greatest shows of all time, to me, in my opinion. But anyway, so I’m walking through Sunnydale, having no idea what this place is, you know? And one thing I remember as one of my first sort of reactions to being on the set– I think it was the school set. I was walking through the hallways and just noticing that the sets were not very expensive. And it almost looked– not to put it down, but it almost looked like my high school musical sets [Kristin laughs] where kids kind of painted on bricks.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jack: But what the show was so smart about was, is that they didn’t overspend on the sets. Like for instance, I did Glee a couple years ago, and they throw money into the fire with those sets. I mean, it’s stupid how much money they put into those sets. They build them like they’re a real place, and you don’t need to do that. And what Joss was smart about in putting on the show was that he didn’t overspend on the sets, because what he did was he got the very best lighting designer. And it’s really… the truth about film is it’s so much about lighting. And that lighting guy knows w  hat he’s doing. And so they were smart about that, because it’s all about the lighting and not the sets necessarily.
Kristin: So some of that caused more questions in my brain. First of all, you said "top three." Buffy is one of your top three TV shows.
Jack: Number one is Mad Men, number two is Breaking Bad.
Kristin: Thank you very much, that was my exact question. [Jack laughs] ‘Cause I haven’t seen either of those shows and Buffy is a top ranking show for me. So I’m gonna have to put those on my list.
Jack: You really must. I made a movie called Space Station 76 that is, if you like Mad Men please check out my movie ‘cause you will love it. It stars Patrick Wilson, Matt Bomer, Liv Tyler, Jerry O’Connell. It’s set in the future as we had imagined it in the 1970s.
Kristin: Wow!
Jack: So you’re on a space station, but everybody’s wearing polyester and smoking.
Kristin: And where can we watch this movie?
Jack: You can download this movie anywhere on the internet you can download movies. So iTunes, Amazon, Google Play. It’s called Space Station 76. I made it independently, but Sony Pictures fell in love with it and bought it, so it’s now a Sony Pictures film.
Kristin: Hell yeah.
Jack: And yeah, it’s my baby. I worked 10 years to get that on screen–
Kristin: When did it come out?
Jack: And it came out beautifully, I got some beautiful reviews. It came out in 2014.
Kristin: Oh, so recent. Pretty recent.
Jack: Yeah!
Kristin: Amazing. So tell me, I mean, this–
Jack: Yeah, so getting back to Buffy, yes.
Kristin: You kind of answered this next question in just talking about your own work and stuff. One of my questions was, did you watch Buffy , were you a fan, yes. And are a fan of fantasy, horror, that genre in general?
Jack: Okay, so very first thing I fell in love with was Carol Burnett shows. And that’s what got me– is probably why I’m an actor today. You know, that and Saturday Night Live and this concept of comedic sketches. But at the exact same moment, I was sitting alone in my kitchen every night watching Star Trek ‘cause no one in my family wanted to watch it. And then the movie that I saw more times in my life than any other movie is Empire Strikes Back. And it hit me right at that sweet spot. Right before puberty, I believe, is the moment that– well, boys at least. You get the most obsessed about something, because you haven’t discovered sex yet. [Kristin laughs] But your brain is going crazy, right? So I fell in love with Empire Strikes Back, memorized it. So anyway, point is, I was always kind of into these two worlds of comedy, but also science fiction, fantasy. I’m a huge fan of– look, if you love Harry Potter, read the Christopher [sic] Pullman series, The Golden Compass,  because it is Harry Potter for adults. Yeah, so obviously I love fantasy and sci fi. I got into the show the season that Glory arrived.
Kristin: Ah.
Jack: And I fell in love with the show and with that actress. And you know, it’s funny. She– her baby, the real actress’s baby, is in my movie.
Kristin: Oh my gosh!
Jack: She plays the baby in my movie. She was so lovely to lend us her baby. [both laugh] But she’s a wonderful talent. Anyway, just crazy fell in love with the show, and then I had to go back and rewatch. And then, of course, when my friend Tom got on the show, that just made my head explode.
Kristin: So that’s a question that I have. We put to Twitter that you were going to be on the show, and so they have some questions for us.
Jack: Oh, I love that!
Kristin: Alexandria from Twitter wrote in and said, "Did you have a role in getting Tom Lenk on Buffy or did you meet after you’d both been on the show?"
Jack: Well, I wrote the role of Andrew and created it for him and then I cast him– no! No, I had nothing to do with it.
Kristin: Breaking! Breaking! [laughs]
Jack: Yeah, nothing to do with it. You know, they just– I have good taste and they have good taste. So Tom and I were friends and he got the role of the vampire and it was adorable. And then they liked him so much, they– yeah, they brought him back for Andrew, which is incredible. And he’s so lucky and so talented.
Kristin: And you all are working together now, currently. You just had a show in December.
Jack: Yes, yeah, we just did a holiday show. And I’m in a lot of his– we make videos together where we’re arguing, ‘cause we love to argue. [Kristin laughs] So often, if we have a good argument, and we never really mean it, we’ll go, "oh, we should film this, this is a good argument for your Instagram account." And you know, he’ll call me and say, "oh my god, I’m wearing a cardboard dress, can you come over and film me in it?" and I’m like, "sure." So yeah, he’s–
Kristin: We love his–
Jack: He’s one of my closest friends, and I adore him.
Kristin: Yes. We’re very excited to get to his part of the show, around the bend. So let’s talk about Allan, shall we?
Jack: Why not?
Kristin: First of all, this is a Twitter question as well, from Fozzie. Fozzie wants to know the backstory… if you made up a backstory for Allan. There’s a lot going on. And, you know, there’s only a few appearances of Allan, but there’s a lot between you and the mayor, and in general. So did you make up a backstory for Allan? Did they give you a backstory?
Jack: What I do is, I just feel like– there’s a quote from John Lithgow. They said how do you prepare for a role, and he said, "I read the script." [both laugh] And so you know, I think that me, and a lot of actors, what they’ll do is they just use their own life. And they just– anything from their life that is appropriate to the character, they hold onto and anything that isn’t, you let go of. And you know, I arrive on set and I play the circumstance of the scene. And Joss is such a good writer, it’s not like you need to do a lot of work to figure out why the characters are behaving the way they’re behaving. You know, it’s clear that– and honestly, it’s been awhile since I’ve watched these episodes. But you know, I think Allan’s a sycophant and he’s very needy for approval and wants to rise up in the world and is willing to break laws to do it, and to work for people who don’t necessarily obey the laws. So anyway, to me, that’s really delicious and rich and interesting, and so I don’t really need to know, like, what my character had for breakfast or– [both laugh] you know, what his grandma’s middle name is. Not that I– you know, if you like doing that, feel free. But I try to keep acting really easy, really fun. I actually teach an approach to acting that’s based in love and not fear. And I have a free ebook that I share with actors, ‘cause I just– it’s kind of my hobby is to give back to the acting community. But also… it’s on my website, which is jackplotnick.com and the free book is called "New Thoughts for Actors." But on top of that, my specialty is helping actors let go of anxiety. [soothing voice] So if any of you out there are struggling with anxiety, or get what you call "nervous" before you have to speak to people or interview for a job, please check out my book! Because the first section, which is called "The Power of Thought," will change your life. It will change your life. ‘Cause I studied self-help techniques for a decade and then wrote this book, and really simplified it all. So made it just real easy to comprehend and fun and I’ve worked with a lot of famous actors who’ve written me beautiful testimonials. Alyson Hannigan…
Kristin: Bless her soul.
Jack: Credited me for getting her the role in How I Met Your Mother. We worked on her audition together. So if you’re curious, go to jackplotnick.com and check out my free book! It’s there for you and it’s there to make you happier.
Kristin: Amazing. I’m curious. Okay, so I get what you’re saying with backstory. But let’s talk a little bit about Allan and Allan’s relationship with the mayor, and what that was like. Were you playing as something in those scenes? Was it–
Jack: I’ll tell you, it wasn’t hard to experience what Allan was experiencing in those scenes, because I was a huge fan of Harry’s. And here's this actor walking on set with this incredible career. You know, I also come from the musical theater world and he's a legend there. And so really, I just used what was happening, which was I was new to drama acting on film. I was a huge fan of Harry's and I just took him in and learned from him and felt in awe of him. And I just used that, because it just was very appropriate to the scenes. And what he was doing was so powerful, I mean, the way he was kind on the outside but you felt that intense power and forboding on the inside, and you felt it on set. He's a very talented and powerful actor and there wasn't much I had to do except just respond to what was in front of me.
Kristin: Now what was it like getting the call when you're reading the script that you're going to die?
Jack: Ah, I mean, I can only guess that I was bummed. [both laugh] Because to me, I'm sure my first thought wasn't, "oh cool, I'm the first human killed by a slayer." I think I was probably just like, oh darn. Darn it!
Kristin: Yeah, "I want the work, I want the experience."
Jack: I didn't want to die yet, you know? Because I was loving doing the show.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jack: Yeah, and I can talk about that day on set, if you want.
Kristin: I would love to hear about it, yeah.
Jack: I mean, that episode more than any is the most strong in my mind, and that's the episode we're talking about today?
Kristin: Yes, "Bad Girls."
Jack: Yes, good. Yeah so, I remember I arrived on set. It was the first time I met Sarah Michelle. And she was– my reaction was, boy, she's so professional and kind. Because, you know, the leads in shows don't have to say hello to you, and she made sure to, and she was very kind when she did. And then I was there while they were filming the scene right after they stake me, where they run away. [laughing] And I remember that there's a single take where you watch both of them jump over a fence– Sarah– and then a wall. And what was so fun to find out was that– and if you watch the scene, you're gonna notice this– that on her way to jumping over the fence, Sarah runs behind a box. Well, the person running out of the box and over the fence is not Sarah, it's her stunt girl! Stunt woman, sorry. [Kristin laughs] I'm so 50s, "stunt girl!" So it was really cool how seamless it is. And it's called an in-camera trick, where they didn't stop the camera. Sarah ran behind the box and her stunt woman just took off at the appropriate moment, and it is so seamless.
Kristin: Wow!
Jack: Yeah. But you'll notice that Eliza, yeah, that she did the stunt. Yeah, she was so fun, Eliza. And it was really great to hang out with her. She was totally willing, like, "come to my trailer, you know, have a cigarette." She was really easygoing and we instantly went, oh okay, I get you, and you're one of the gang and you're easygoing. She was happy to do whatever stunt they gave her. And then– want me to talk about the death?
Kristin: Yeah! I would love to hear about what transpired, how that was for you as an actor.
Jack: So you know, at that age, you're just happy to do anything. And I remember they said, "so are you okay doing the stunt?" and I was like, "sure!" And they're like, "okay." So they put this pad on my back– it wasn't a pad as much as, like, a piece of plastic, you know, to protect my back. And they go, "okay, so when we yell action, throw yourself against that dumpster and fall down." [Kristin laughs] [pause] Okay. So that's it, that's all they said.
Kristin: Your full direction.
Jack: Yeah! I mean, I'd had– yeah. Around the same time in my life, I did a commercial. They were like, "run into that sign with your face and fall down." You're like, okay, but I need to figure out how. So I did it and I probably got stunt pay each time I did it, I don't remember. But it hurt, that hurt a little. But it was more exciting than anything else. And then came the shot where they staked me. Okay, that really hurt.
Kristin: Really?
Jack: They don't tell you that, that those– you know, they said, "don't worry, it's a retractable stake," they showed me it. Sarah was really sweet, she's like, "see, here's how it works." They were like, "action!" and stake, and I was like, h'oh! I mean, I'm not acting there. It's... yeah. That stake hurt.
Kristin: Wow. 'Cause I guess even if it's retractable, the force of it is still hitting you in the chest.
Jack: Yeah, and of course, I had something to protect me, but it's still you're being punched in the chest. But still, I wasn't– I don't remember having anything other than just excitement and a little bit of surprise at how much that hurt. [both laugh] So anyway, then Joss came on set, for my death. And that was the first time I met him. And it was really exciting that he had come to set specifically to come down to watch the death and make sure he was happy with it, I suppose. And I can't remember if he told me to or the director, but they said, "have some blood in your mouth and let it come out afterwards." And I think I was the one who decided, I'll be trying to talk and let this blood drip out. And so we did the shot, and I die, and I'll never forget it that after they said, "okay, cut, print, that's a wrap," Joss came up to me. He said, "That was a really terrific death." And you know, you never forget stuff like that.
Kristin: Yeah, wow!
Jack: And I do, I love that scene. It was a satisfying end of my character.
Kristin: Yeah, and I mean, that image, you know. Even when you search the character's name, Allan, like the first image you see is that blood coming out of your mouth–
Jack: Yeah, I really enjoy the specific thing that he's trying to say something. I find that really unsettling to watch.
Kristin: Yeah, and we don't really know– I don't think we ever know actually why Allan was in that alley. When he got staked. Like, was he going against the mayor? Was he not?
Jack: Was he sneaking out to find someone to go tell on the mayor? Yeah, was he working for the mayor? Was he trying to meet a date? [both laugh]
Kristin: Would that be your preferred telling of it?
Jack: Yeah, that's the backstory. Yeah, you don't know, but I mean, I have my guesses. And I think he was ready to switch sides.
Kristin: That's heartening in today's day and age to hear that Allan–
Jack: Yeah, 'cause you can see that it's never really in his heart to... he wants out. You know, those last couple office scenes, he don't wanna be there. [laughs]
Kristin: I have one last question for you and it's like, a larger question, which is, you were the assistant to the mayor. But if Allan was the mayor, what kind of mayor do you think Allan would have been?
Jack: You know, Allan is such a pushover. I would guess that– and I don't think he's inherently evil. I think he is... opportunistic, meaning I think if someone had said, "you know, if you let us drill in that nature preserve, we're gonna give you all this money." I think he maybe would have been convinced to do little things like that, little evils. But I don't know! I think he was a pretty good guy and I think all it would have taken is, you know, the Ladies' Commerce Club to come in and say, "we need a new veterans hospital and orphanage" and he would have been like, "here you go, I got the money from drilling in the nature preserve!" [both laugh]
Kristin: A complicated mayor! How do we know to like him or to not like him? That's incredible. I cannot thank you enough for talking to us.
Jack: Oh, what a joy, what a joy! Thank you for having me.
Kristin: It's been so fun for us to get to interact with the fans. You know, something that I didn't ask you, maybe one quick thing before we go, is have you had experiences with the fans of the show? Do you do cons or did you used to do cons?
Jack: I was never invited to a con!
Kristin: What?!
Jack: I know!
Kristin: What kind of... what?
Jack: I know. And I would have loved to, and I once went with Tom to one and walked around, hoping I'd be noticed. I think one person noticed me. I just– you know, people tend to be on the lookout for the bigger characters. So no, I never– but I love anybody who loves the show, because we're all really a brotherhood, not just of people who love the show, but who have the same ideals, who care about the same things, who care about empowerment of women, who care about bringing down [deep voice] the patriarchy! [Kristin laughs] You know, people who have imagination and creativity and who can look at things in a heightened way. In other words, if you're able to understand the lessons he's teaching in these first few seasons before it became more serialized, then you're really a person who is able to see the bigger picture in a healthy way, 'cause you're not just, "everything's black and white." So basically, I think you meet a Buffy fan, you instantly like that person. Because they get it, and they have good taste if you ask me.
Kristin: I agree 100%.
Jack: I mean, we don't need anymore people– fans of football. It's like... [Kristin laughs] Is nothing good– I mean, come on. It's just war with uniforms that look colorful. But it's still that– yeah.
Kristin: With you 100%. [laughs] Jack for Mayor.
Jack: [laughs] So hey, you guys. If any of you are connected to your community theaters or the theaters in your neighborhood, I wrote a musical that was on Broadway last year called Disaster. I wrote it with Seth Rudetsky, the Broadway host of Sirius XM radio. It was a New York Times critics' pick, it ran on Broadway for four months. It's a 1970s disaster movie musical with all hit songs from the 70s and it's now being done all over the country.
Kristin: Oh, wow.
Jack: So if you'd like your community theater or your regional theater to do the show, just get the rights and it's there. We had about 20 to 25 productions happening this year.
Kristin: That's so exciting.
Jack: And it's hilarious. And it's got a lot of heart, and if you like Buffy, you'll really dig these characters and their journeys because each person fights for survival. And by the way, every disaster that could happen happens. That's earthquakes, tidal waves, sharks, piranhas, uhh, killer rats. So it's really fun–
Kristin: [laughing] Killer rats!
Jack: But each person is kind of discovering the true meaning of love through this journey of trying to survive. And it's set in 1979 and again, it's got all your favorite songs, hit songs of the decade.
Kristin: That was my last question to you is, where can we find you now? And so that's a place!
Jack: Well, you know, all things Jack Plotnick are at my website, jackplotnick.com, including my free e-book, New Thoughts for Actors. And I have an instagram account, which is @jackplotnick, where I put up really stupid videos. [Kristin laughs] And so if you wanna laugh, check that out. So that's where you'll see me.
Kristin: Incredible.
Jack: Yeah, I'm currently recurring on Grace and Frankie's. I've been in the last two seasons and I've got a couple episodes in this coming season.
Kristin: Wonderful. Well, it has been such a joy to talk to you.
Jack: Thank you for having me, Kristin!
Kristin: Thank you so much for talking to us!
Jack: It's so great meeting you. You're awesome!
Kristin: [laughs] Aw, thank you. You are too. Have– I know it's past the holidays, but you have a happy holiday.
Jack: I appreciate that. I hope this new year brings you so much joy.
Kristin: Oh, thank you so much–
Jack: And Jenny. [both laugh]
Kristin: Thank you.
NOTES: [Chime]
Kristin: Ah! Jack!
Jenny: Oh my god, what a dream!
Kristin: What a dream, such a delight.
Jenny: So many great stories.
Kristin: I wish we had more of Allan, you know? I wish there was just a little more Allan for the world.
Jenny: It's so hard to say goodbye to Allan.
Kristin: [singing] It's so hard... to say goodbye...
Jenny: Um.
Kristin: [singing] To Allan. Oooh!
Jenny: That was beautiful. That was actually Kristin, I should specify [Kristin laughs] so you all know that that wasn't me, professional musician Jenny Owen Youngs, but rather my wife, Kristin Noeline Russo, who does not believe that she has a lovely singing voice.
Kristin: Just a few riffs away from also getting the title "professional musician." [both laugh] So okay, Allan dies. I do wanna say that like, the moment that Faith stakes Allan. It's like, almost immediate, she says, "I didn't know." And it's so sad.
Jenny: It's really, really, really sad.
Kristin: It's so sad.
Jenny: Especially when you think about it in context of what happens later in the episode. You know what I mean? She starts bricking that wall pretty quick.
Kristin: Yeah. And then the cops, we see– I think sirens or you know, the suggestion of more cops. And they run. Angel runs into Buffy in the alley, This was weird to me?
Jenny: This is so weird! Because Angel's like, "I've noted that you have blood on your hand, that's so weird. It's not like you're fighting for your life every night."
Kristin: Right, it's not like we were– like, they were just in The Bronze and Buffy had a gash–
Jenny: Ooh, no, you know what though?
Kristin: What?
Jenny: He could probably smell that it's not her blood.
Kristin: Ooooh! Deep.
Jenny: And also creepy. [Kristin laughs] Okay, but she runs into Angels, and she lets him know that Giles has been kidnapped.
Kristin: He lets her know.
Jenny: Is that not what I said?
Kristin: You said– I think you said she.
Jenny: Whoops.
Kristin: [laughs] I mean, listen. To each his own. But yeah, he lets Buffy know and then we get this last moment of this scene–
Jenny: Where Faith comes back for a last look at Allan.
Kristin: Yeah. It's very sad. Then we go– luckily we get a little comedic relief, because Giles and Wesley are with Bal–
Jenny: They're very different– they have very different hostage styles.
Kristin: [laughing] They sure do! And we've seen Giles in a hostage situation before, we know he's–
Jenny: But we've never had him standing right next to somebody who's made of jello.
Kristin: [imitating Wesley] "Stay calm, Mr. Giles!"
Jenny: [laughs] Oh my god...
Kristin: And then Balthazar's like, "I'm gonna take your kneecaps" and he's like, "There's a man and he's dark and he has your amulet–" [Jenny laughs] "And my name is Wesley and my social security number is–"
Jenny: "I like my kneecaps!" [Kristin laughs] I mean, I have to say... I'd like to imagine myself being very brave in a scenario like this. But I think starting with "I'm gonna take your kneecaps off"– it's a short line to finding somebody's limits.
Kristin: You know what, I'm not a watcher. So I shouldn't have to be–
Jenny: Yeah, that's true.
Kristin: Like, Wesley is a watcher. How do they hire the watchers?
Jenny: They clearly have trash hiring strategies except for Giles, who then they treat like trash.
Kristin: Yeah, you know what's interesting though, is that Wesley is, I think, is the ideal watcher insofar as the Watcher's Council is concerned.
Jenny: Right, they want super by-the-book people.
Kristin: Yeah. They want dudes, maybe occasionally women, who are there to research and give orders. And who do not– it's very similar to what we heard Giles talk about in "Helpless" where he was like, "She's fighting the war, you're waging the war." And Giles is fighting the war with her. Like, he's all hands on deck and I think that the way that the Watcher's Council is structured, nobody's supposed to get dirty in the Watcher's Council.
Jenny: Right. It reminds me of a structure that I can think of, that also fights war.
Kristin: [laughs] Jenny, you keep talking about these things–
Jenny: [overlapping] That are definitely made up.
Kristin: As though we have the ability to understand them, but we don't.
Jenny: Yeah, hmm, no.
Kristin: [laughs] So Balthazar gets really mad in this scene, and he's like "There is one deal and it is you die slow or you die fast!"
Jenny: I feel like over the course of this episode, Balthazar's arc has just become more and more Eric Cartman.
Kristin: Yes. Yes.
Jenny: He's just throwing more and more of a tantrum as it goes on and like, losing his mind.
Kristin: What is the Cartman line?
Jenny: Oh, "respect my authority"?
Kristin: Respect my– can you not just hear Balthazar saying "respect my–" I mean, basically is saying that.
Jenny: Also just a teeny, tiny side note, if anybody watched The People Vs. OJ Simpson?
Kristin: Ooh.
Jenny: Starring Sarah Paulson, among other people. The guy who's in the Balthazar suit is the lawyer for the prosecution who has–
Kristin: What?!
Jenny: The heart attack or whatever in the middle of opening statements.
Kristin: Whaaaat? Oh my god. You just waited to reveal that to me, live on air?
Jenny: That's right.
Kristin: Holy shit.
Jenny: [laughs] Aren't you amazed?
Kristin: I'm amazed! What a great fact.
Jenny: I thought so.
Kristin: Anyhow, then Angel's fighting and Buffy's fighting and Wesley is like, "M-Mr. Giles!" still. And then they–
Jenny: [laughs] Also, one of the medieval times vampires has a bleach job that's like– has an inch and a half worth of dark roots grown out. Which feels like a weird choice for medieval times vampires.
Kristin: Yeah, and also comes back to a question we asked and discussed multiple times early in the season which is do vampires have hair that can grow?
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: Still really not answered, because he could have just dyed the tips.
Jenny: Still a mystery.
Kristin: You know, could've just dyed the tips. So they electrocute Balthazar and Balthazar has this really classic horror film moment where he's like–
Jenny: So great! So well delivered.
Kristin: Yes! He's totally dead and then he's like, eyes open. And now, I just wanna point out again that his relation to the Master seems apparent to me.
Jenny: [overlapping] Via his mouth shape.
Kristin: He has been electrocuted and suddenly, we see– I think the Master might have gotten his mouth electrocuted. That's where that fruit punch came from, I'm just saying.
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: 'Cause Balthazar got his whole body electrocuted and he's just one fruit punch–
Jenny: Oh yeah, he's all red.
Kristin: Yeah, he's entirely fruit punch. And he says, "you're going to wish that I killed you when he rises."
Jenny: Yeah, that's right.
Kristin: [spooky voice] Dun, dun– who is he talking about?
Jenny: [laughs] Cut to the mayor, who's now impervious and ready for root beer.
Kristin: Holy shit. And like, listen, this is some fucking Latin here. We have seen Angel do his fucking Angel Latin, and we've seen Giles do some Giles Latin. But let me tell you who nails Latin. The mayor.
Jenny: Mm-hmm.
Kristin: He is like, fucking screaming the Latin, it's so powerful. And then he stops and he immediately is like, "You know, I really don't understand why Allan would miss this. He's always so punctual."
Jenny: [laughs] Oh no! Allan!
Kristin: It's just like... ugh, Harry Groener. Man, what a great actor.
Jenny: Yeah, he's amazing.
Kristin: What an incredible actor. So, so wonderful. And then, right. We see what all that Latin did. You know, Latin can do a lot for people.
Jenny: [laughs loudly] You mean in terms of like, making them impervious to stuff?
Kristin: Yeah!
Jenny: Sure, yeah.
Kristin: You know, there's a lot of Latin phrases that conjure magic. It's always in Latin.
Jenny: Yeah, I guess that's a really good point. Well, I guess maybe 'cause it's a dead language?
Kristin: Yeah, well, it's an ancient– it's the most? Is it one of–
Jenny: Mmmm, I doubt that it's the most ancient–
Kristin: White person alert! White person alert!
Jenny: Yeah. Beep, beep, beep!
Kristin: [laughs] So okay, his face is cut in half.
Jenny: Right, and then it just seams itself back together.
Kristin: Incredible effects here. Just beautiful.
Jenny: [laughs] Oh, 1999. But I really do love the–
Kristin: I'm joking, but I actually do love the way that the effects make it look. It's very special. And just like the mayor, he pulls out his little to-do list.
Jenny: Oh my god!
Kristin: And checks off "become invincible."
Jenny: Man!
Kristin: So good.
Jenny: Must be so satisfying to check that off after working for it for so long.
Kristin: Right? 'Cause those items on your to-do list that take many steps to get to, and you're like, ugh, this is so frustrating.
Jenny: Yep, yep, mm-hmm.
Kristin: So the one thing that I wanna point out of this scene too is Tri– we haven't really talked about Trick a lot, 'cause he's been, similarly to Allan, he's been sort of assisting the mayor–
Jenny: [overlapping] Popping in and out.
Kristin: And hasn't had too many main plotlines. But there's this great moment between the mayor and Trick at the end, where the mayor laughs, and it is like this maniacal laugh. And you see–
Jenny: Yeah, after he's been sliced in half and then is like, "who's for a root beer?" and like, he skips out of frame.
Kristin: [laughs] And you see Trick look at him like, "this crazy fucker. I love it," you know?
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah.
Kristin: He's like, "this guy's out of his fucking mind."
Jenny: "And I'm having a blast!"
Kristin: Yes, "and I'm so into it."
Jenny: Totally.
Kristin: I liked that, I liked this little bit more of an establishment of their relationship that happens in that tiny moment.
Jenny: Yeah. Then cut to exterior, blinking motel– you know, the last time we were outside of this motel, a piano was gently tinkling in the background, and somebody was like, [singing] "I really can't stay..."
Kristin: [singing] "But Buffy, it's cold outside."
Jenny: But now, things have changed. Now– sometimes in a young woman's life, she must wash the blood out of her tank top in her dirty motel sink.
Kristin: [singing] "I'm gonna wash that blood right outta my tank!" You know? That's what she's humming to herself.
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah! And then maybe you're doing that and then your friend, on her way home from church, stops by.
Kristin: God, it's such a recurring theme.
Jenny: Like, what! Is! Buffy's! Outfit!
Kristin: Every time she shows up at the motel, she's dressed like an old church lady. And I just–
Jenny: Well, I think as Kate pointed out in her beautiful poem, they really go hard in terms of, what does Buffy wear compared to what Faith wears in this phase and then in this phase.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: And they're like, really hitting it hard, like, "Buffy just went to church. And prayed for your mortal soul."
Kristin: Buffy is back to being a good girl!
Jenny: Yeah, exactly. Boring!
Kristin: Yeah!
Jenny: Boo!
Kristin: Bring bad Buffy back!
Jenny: Kill a man!
Kristin: [laughs] Kill a man... Jenny means "have gay sex."
Jenny: Yeah, it's all very complicated.
Kristin: The metaphor's very mixed in this episode.
Jenny: Flawed, really.
Kristin: Yes. I wish I had been in that writer's room, I might have been able to help them along a little bit, but I'm a woman, so.
Jenny: [laughs] Stay out! Maybe you can get the coffee. So we see– oh god. We see that force fields–
Kristin: Are you upset because of the towel rack? Is that what it is? [Jenny laughs] I understand, that towel rack is rough. It goes from big to small and Faith was like– [Jenny keeps laughing louder] the towel rack was on the wall when Faith got to the motel and Faith, having not had a lot of life experience about how things are, she was like, well, it's big at the top and it's small at the bottom. So I will put one of every size towel to match– you know? It's just this tiny upside-down Christmas tree of towels.
Jenny: Yeah, that is not the most upsetting thing in this scene, but it's up there.
Kristin: You're right.
Jenny: Force fields have been fully engaged. And Faith is only showing Buffy her hard Faith shell exoskeleton. And she weighted the body.
Kristin: Took it, weighted it, dumped it.
Jenny: And then we get the most chilling– like, it's advancing and you see Buffy, when she gets there, she's like, "I'm here to help." You know? And then their very last back and forth, which is like, "You don't get it. You killed a man." And Faith returning with, " You don't get it, I don't care."
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Fucking credits.
Kristin: Yeah. It's really–
Jenny: Ahhh!
Kristin: It's really dark and it's like, you know, obviously this is self-preservation for Faith. I think that it pulls out something that's very important between Faith and Buffy. They behave differently. They also come from very different backgrounds and different experiences, and where Buffy might be able to feel confident in saying, "We killed a man and we have to talk about it." Like, her experiences have been way more privileged than Faith's have ever been.
Jenny: Oh, yeah. Well, if you read the, I believe, canonical prequel novel–
Kristin: Go Ask Malice?
Jenny: [laughing] Go Ask Malice, the Faith Lehane story. You'll learn a lot about Faith's past. I mean, you can infer a good amount from the show. But it's definitely– there's a lot more harrowing detail and... go for it.
Kristin: I mean, even on the surface, it's just like, Buffy's living in a fucking mansion with 7,000 bedrooms and has 14 trench coats.
Jenny: Yes! So mad!
Kristin: You know what I mean? 40,000 cross necklaces. And not to– whatever, it's not that Buffy's struggle isn't real. It's just that Buffy's circumstances set her up for internalizing things and acting on things in very different ways than Faith is set up to act. Faith is obviously not– does not have money and has not had a stable existence up until now. And she's just trying to fucking protect herself. And that's what's so heart wrenching about watching her put the wall up, is it's not like, "aw Faith, why do you gotta do that?" It's like, fucking, she has to do that. It's the only way she knows–
Jenny: Yeah, like, what else can she do? With the tools that she has.
Kristin: Yeah, what is she gonna do? Trust somebody else? She's only been burned when she's trusted people. And... you know. I get a little worked up about it, because I think that often– I think one of the biggest problems we have in our world is that we don't have the ability to understand that our experience isn't someone else's experience. Right, that like, the way that I experience X or Y is not the fucking same way that everybody else does. If we could just crack that one thing, so much would be over in the world. But it's the biggest thorn in our side as a society, and I just think that it's illustrated in how we see Faith and Buffy deal with this situation. 'Cause you can easily– I'm sure there are people who watch it and they're like, well, why? Why is she being bad and Buffy's being good? Right, like, why does she have to do that? She could be good like Buffy. And it's like, no–
Jenny: No, no, no.
Kristin: No! That's not it. So... taking a dark turn in "Bad Girls" here.
Jenny: Wonder what's gonna happen next!
Kristin: Me too.
Jenny: Hopefully more off-camera gay sex.
Kristin: Yeah. I mean, certainly I think we can, for the record, confirm that gay sex happened in this episode. We talked about this on the Buffy Watch and we didn't talk about it here. And we gave Hell Math to the wrong hell math, or whatever. We have more hell math, because the important hell math that we did when we did the Buffy Watch was... they left school–
Jenny: Oh my god!
Kristin: And it was daytime.
Jenny: It was daytime. Class was still happening, so at the latest, it was like, 2 o'clock. They bust into that crypt, maybe it takes like, 25 minutes to walk to the crypt–
Kristin: I'll give 'em an hour!
Jenny: Give 'em an hour.
Kristin: 3 o'clock.
Jenny: I believe this aired in February and we determined that the sun set
at 6:15 or 6:30.
Kristin: Okay. Yeah, I don't remember–
Jenny: And you know that Bronze was not happening until 9 PM at the earliest. What were they doing?
Kristin: So what. Did. They. Do?
Jenny: Maybe allot an hour for ribs?
Kristin: [singing] Motel sex, motel sex! I say a motel sex, yeah, motel sex! That's the song–
Jenny: So are you saying Motel Six ?
Kristin: Oh, I was saying sex, but.
Jenny: Oh!
Kristin: Motel sex. That's the song, I hope you liked it.
Jenny: I liked it a lot.
Kristin: That's my song. Jess and Jenny wrote one, but I also wrote one. [Jenny laughs] Mine just goes "motel sex, yeah, motel sex..."
Jenny: Vote for your favorite on Twitter!
Kristin: [laughs] So yeah. You have it. We're your authority, I think, and we declare that they did it.
Jenny: Or at least... cuddled.
Kristin: Yes, at the very least, cuddled. Made out. Made out and cuddled, at the v– they just did it. [both laugh]
Jenny: Well, with that great mystery finally laid to rest and satisfactorily answered, I can tell you now– I'm free to tell you now that I'm Jenny Owen Youngs. And when I'm not making this podcast and writing Buffy and Faith fanfic, I am writing songs. Writing lots and lots of songs. You can hear some of them at jennyowenyoungs.com/buffering. And you can give me a shout on Twitter @jennyowenyoungs.
Kristin: You can, and you can find me and all of my Buffy and Faith fanfiction– just kidding, I haven't written any yet on paper. But in my head–
Jenny: Well, your erotic novels.
Kristin: That's true! I've written a ton of erotic novels. You can't yet find those on my website, but my website is kristinnoeline.com. That's K-R-I-S-T-I-N-N-O-E-L-I-N-E. And that is also my Twitter handle and my Instagram handle, so you can follow all of the goings-on in my life, which is primarily Buffy-related and cat-related. So, you know, high relevance in today's day and age. [laughs] You can also learn more about my work with LGBTQ communities and their families over at everyoneisgay.com and mykidisgay.com. And I also wanted to mention today that I run a series with Autostraddle, which we've mentioned various times on the podcast, called Getting in Bed with Kristin. It happens most Thursdays at 3 PM Pacific time on Autostraddle's Facebook page. And it's a series where I give advice. It's also a series where I have some really fun guests. I've had Tegan Quin from Tegan and Sara, I've had Jen Richards, I've had–
Jenny: Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: I've had Jenny Owen Youngs, I've had Steph Beatriz from Brooklyn 99, if you watch that show.
Jenny: Yeah, those people are all cool.
Kristin: I've had a lot of really, really wonderful fun guests and there will be some really fun guests as well in 2018. So if you wanna learn more about that, you can also just follow me on Twitter or Instagram and I'll tell you all about it. Or you can go to Autostraddle's Facebook page and the events are listed there for you.
Jenny: Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on Instagram, Twitter and Facebook @bufferingcast. And you can always drop us an email at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com!
Kristin: [laughs] Thanks, Jenny.
Jenny: You're welcome!
Kristin: You can support our work by rating us over on iTunes. Rating and reviewing helps even more. It helps people find us, it helps people find the podcast and that is how we grow our community. You can help support us financially over on Patreon. Go to bufferingthevampireslayer.com and just click on the Patreon link over there. Plus, not only do you support our work but you also get fun things like Buffy Watches, the mp3s of the songs in advance, Q&A videos, you know. There's a whole long laundry list of fun things happening over there. Also, you can head on over to our store by clicking on Shop at bufferingthevampireslayer.com. You can find sweatshirts and t-shirts and pins, oh my! So many fun things happening over there, and something that we meant to mention at the top that we did not, is so many of you have written to us about the fact that you're going to marches and protests all across the country, all across the world, and you really wanna bring "Smash the Demon Lizard Patriarchy" on a sign to march. And that is the coolest thing we've ever heard of. Isabella Rotman is the artist who designed that first design with those little lizards with the little hats on their little heads. It's a great design and Isabella has made a version that is available for free download in our store now. So you can go on over there and print up your own "Smash the Demon Lizard Patriarchy" sign to march with. And if you do that, please send us pictures. We would love nothing more than to see that sign marching across this country or many others, where people need to wake the fuck up and smash the demon lizard patriarchy!
Jenny: I just got very emotional thinking about it.
Kristin: Yeah, me too. It's really, really special. So you just go to our store and click add to your cart at zero dollars and zero cents, and you can get that PDF that right now prints up to 11 by 14. And you know what, if we need to figure out how to make it bigger, we can. [Jenny laughs] But I think for now, 11 by 14's pretty great.
Jenny: Also, if you do wanna get a handwritten lyric sheet from this month's batch, you can do that over at bufferingthevampireslayer.com/greatergood, while they last. The organization we are donating proceeds to this month is Time's Up, which is of course a new unified call for change from women in entertainment for women everywhere. You can learn more about their work at timesupnow.com. Stay tuned after the howl for me and Jess Abbott dueting like no two slayers have done before!
Kristin: Well, I think two other slayers have maybe...
Jenny: Dueted to a similar degree?
Kristin: [laughing] Yes.
Jenny: Fascinating. Well, till next time...
Jenny and Kristin: Awwwooooo!
Kristin: [whispering] Gal pals! [Jenny Owen Youngs and Jess Abbott performing "Bad Girls" off the album album "Songs From Season Three" by Buffering the Vampire Slayer] I’m going down, are you coming in there’s two of us, and a ton of them I live for blood and adrenaline Turn them to dust but it never ends If you’re going down guess I’m coming in I’ve been good, you know I think I’ve saved the world enough Bad girls, bad girls, two’s better than one Bad girls, bad girls, just tryna get some If you don’t enjoy the work, girlfriend, you’re doing it wrong Bad girls, bad girls, just wanna have fun I’m going off in The Bronze tonight I’m cashing in on what’s always been mine Haven’t felt this good in a long time Yeah I knew you’d like it on the dark side I’m getting lost at The Bronze tonight You’ve been good for far way too long You know it’s not enough Bad girls, bad girls, two’s better than one Bad girls, bad girls, just tryna get some What’s a crime, anything is mine; want, take, have Bad girls, bad girls, just wanna be bad Bad girls, bad girls Bad girls, bad girls Bad girls, bad girls, two’s better than one Bad girls, bad girls, just tryna get some What’s a crime, anything is mine; want, take, have Bad girls, bad girls, just wanna be bad Bad girls, bad girls, two’s better than one Bad girls, bad girls, just tryna get some If you don’t enjoy the work, girlfriend, you’re doing it wrong Bad girls, bad girls, just wanna be bad