Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 3.01: Anne
Jenny: Hello everybody! Wow, hello, hi. [Kristin laughs]
Kristin: Jenny’s a little out of practice. It’s been six weeks since you’ve spoken.
Jenny: I took a vow of silence.
Kristin: So we’re back!
Jenny: We are back.
Kristin: Oh my gosh, it’s time for Season 3.
Jenny: It really is.
Kristin: I’m very excited.
Jenny: Me too.
Kristin: But…
Jenny: Before…
Kristin: We get there...
Jenny: We must...
Kristin: Share with you a couple of important things.
Jenny: First of all, this Sunday September 10th at 2pm Pacific over on our Facebook page facebook.com/bufferingcast, we will be going live to celebrate our millionth download which happened a little bit ago.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: And we’re going to be playing some songs and "A"ing your "Q"s and hanging out in general to celebrate and have a blast with you. So please join us, it’s open to everyone. Come on down, 2pm on Sunday, Pacific time.
Kristin: Yes and in the same vein in terms of saving the date, please save the date for October 14th if you’re in the Los Angeles area.
Jenny: Awoooo!
Kristin: We will be doing another live taping at NerdMelt showroom here in Los Angeles. It may or may not be up on their calendar yet, but we want you to put in your calendars. You can totally check out their site and see if the tickets are up yet. If they’re not, they’ll be up very shortly. But we want to let you know that October 14th, that is where we will be and we hope that you will be there too.
Jenny: Yes. Furthermore, you may be afraid that now that it’s Season 3, we don’t have merch anymore. But we do! Against all odds, we are still chock full of ‘Smash the Demon Lizard Patriarchy’ tees, and ‘Awoooo’ shirts and CDs and pins designed by Kate Leth and also Kristine Thune.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: It’s all so great and you can find it by visiting our website bufferingthevampireslayer.com and clicking on ‘Shop’.
Kristin: Yes and on a more serious note, two more serious notes. We wanted to let you know that we are going to talk a little bit about everything that has happened with Joss and Joss’s ex-wife Kai. Something we normally we would not dig into if it didn’t overlap so directly with feminism and patriarchy and other things that we talk about on this show. But we are not going to do that until the end of the show. So if you’re here for that, it is at the end. But we suggest you listen to the whole thing because the episode’s pretty fun. And also, since we last talked to you, the climate has done a few atrocious things.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: But one in particular in Houston, Texas. We know that many of you listen from from Houston, Texas, and we are hoping that you are all safe. We are devastated by what we are saying in your beautiful city. We have both been to Houston, we both love Houston, and we are going to do our best to support the incredible efforts that need to happen to restore your city back to where it once was. So this month, and we have decided that we’re going to do this every month for a different cause because the world is a fucking garbage fire right now [Jenny laughs]. So every month we’re going to do this for a different cause and September, we’re going to kick things off for Houston for the Hurricane Harvey Relief Fund in Houston. We are going to do five handwritten lyric sheets. They are up in our store, they cost $100 each. We’ll do the full song for you or a segment from a song. You tell us what you’d like and 100% of those proceeds, so that’s $100 because we’re not going to take the money for the paper or the pen ink [Jenny laughs], so $100 of your donation will go directly to Hurricane Harvey and we’ll send you that lyric sheet in exchange. So you can find that also on our website bufferingthevampireslayer.com. Just click on ‘Shop’ and it’s in our store. Again Houston, we send you so much of our love and so much of our strength, and we hope that you are all safe and finding shelter and safety.
Jenny: All. Right. That’s all the business. Now let’s get to the party.
NOTES: [THEME MUSIC]
Jenny: Hello and welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast where we are watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer one at a time in chronological order! I am Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: And I am Kristin Russo and this week, we are back and we are talking about Season 3… Season 3, did everybody hear that?
Jenny: Season… 3?
Kristin: Season 3.
Jenny: Mmmm.
Kristin: Episode 1 "Anne". Stay tuned at the end of this podcast every week for an original song written by us recapping the Buffy episode we are discussing.
Jenny: "Anne" was written and directed by Joss Whedon and originally aired on September 29th, 1998.
Kristin: This is the one where "Buffy living on her own in a big city assists a girl whose boyfriend has mysteriously vanished. Back in Sunnydale, Buffy’s friends do their best to battle the forces of evil." Not bad IMDB.
Jenny: That was a really good one.
Kristin: Right? And I read it kind of like Moviefone again.
Jenny: You did.
Kristin: Yeah, when I like them I try to really get into character.
Jenny: I mean if–
Kristin: "[dramatically] In a world…" You know?
Jenny: If the actual text has a rhythm and a flow and a musicality to it, the way you read it is going to be a little more natural.
Kristin: It’s not iambic pentameter, but it’s something.
Jenny: You’re not iambic pentameter.
Kristin: Wow, rude.
Jenny: I know, right at the beginning of the new season.
Kristin: Way to start this season off on a rough foot Jenny.
Jenny: How… dare you.
Kristin: So how have you been Jenny? I am wondering because I don’t see you apart from when we do the podcast.
Jenny: We haven’t seen each other for the last six weeks– I’ll tell you Kristin Russo, [Kristin laughs] some things have happened.
Kristin: They really have. So Jenny and I were like– First of all, when we finished Season 2 and we were like "Okay, we’ll see you on September 6th", many of you were like "Excuse me? I think you’ve written that wrong. Because that is a long time from now and you don’t understand [Jenny laughs] what you’re saying." And we were like "Ooo, yeah okay. You’re right." We took a six week break and I want to say that I think if we were doing a podcast about Buffy and just the podcast that we probably wouldn’t take a six week break in between seasons. But because of the fact that we’re also writing the songs at the end, let me promise you all that if we didn’t take a six week break, the graph of song quality would slowly descend and then it would hit sea level and it would go lower and it would get right to the Hellmouth is what I’m trying to…
Jenny: Right down there and everybody knows that the worst pop songs currently in existence are all coming out of the Hellmouth.
Kristin: Yes, precisely.
Jenny: So we want to avoid that.
Kristin: We’re trying to. So we took six weeks off, we thought "This is going to be great."
Jenny: We’ll catch up on our other work.
Kristin: We’ll relax maybe for a minute.
Jenny: Yeah, we might go to the beach for one day.
Kristin: Perhaps. However, some of you who follow us on social media know this already but about two? Three weeks ago?
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: We were surprise evicted from our house. No warning. Jenny just walked out to get the mail and there was a man that she did not know, walked up to the door with a piece of paper that said you have to get out of your house in 60 days or else. And our entire world was flipped upside down. We found a place that same night somehow? Which is really cool but also very rushed because we had to pack up our entire home and move it in 4 days because why?
Jenny: Flame Con, because we went to Flame Con.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: We finished moving the last pieces of furniture and odds and ends
into the house at like 7pm on Wednesday and then we got up at 4:30am on Thursday and flew to New York for our weekend at Flame Con.
Kristin: Yes. Which we taped Season 3, Episode 2 live from Flame Con. So stay tuned for that next week.
Jenny: Absolutely.
Kristin: But yeah…
Jenny: When we got home to our house full of boxes and bags and total disarray, Kristin got a cold. The worst cold I’ve ever seen Kristin have. She’s never been as sick.
Kristin: I was really sick. I’m just coming out of it, I still have a little bit of the sniffles. But I was out for like a week.
Jenny: And! [Kristin laughs] Our cat also got a cold while boarding.
Kristin: Right. So in the last 72 hours, we’ve been to Urgent Care twice and the vet ER once. Everyone’s fine but it has been three weeks, everyone. So that’s our history of where we’re coming to Season 3 from. But we made it through, we made it through an eviction, a move, a trip to New York, horrible colds for everyone but, knock on wood, Jenny, who has maintained up until this point her health.
Jenny: Holding strong for the time being.
Kristin: Oh and we are here. Even if I was as sick as I was yesterday, I think that I would have all of the energy in the world to talk about this episode.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Because not only are we getting to talk about Season 3, Episode 1 "Anne", but we had the distinct pleasure of getting to interview Julia Lee who plays in this episode Lily, becomes Anne by the end (spoilers), and who played Chanterelle in an earlier episode of the series. She came to our house everyone! She came to our house, and we sat down and we talked with her and we are going to share that interview with you in this episode. We really better get started.
Jenny: We really better.
Kristin: We have a lot to talk about.
Jenny: Oh my gosh! So the Scoobies are in the graveyard [Kristin laughs]. You’re supposed to think maybe those are Buffy’s legs but they’re not. They’re Willow’s, and then she’s like "Yeah big boy, come and get it." And then we all… look at the ground for a moment in time.
Kristin: Yeah, this is great because it leads to a, what I wrote in my notes as a "punning call out." [Jenny laughs] Because I don’t think they’ve ever really out loud discussed Buffy’s nature of you know, throwing puns at the villains. Right?
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: So that’s fun. And Willow is trying to occupy Buffy’s shoes by throwing a pun although, it made us all cringe a little bit but also love Willow so much at the same time.
Jenny: Absolutely!
Kristin: Also, this scene– first of all, let me tell you what. That vamp, Eddie? Eddie the vamp?
Jenny: Andrew? Andy?
Kristin: I thought it was– Eddie Holnich was what I wrote down.
Jenny: I think it’s Andy…
Kristin: Andy? Andy Holnich?
Jenny: Wow, let’s talk about it for a little while longer [They both laugh].
Kristin: He just– these vamps aren’t dirty when they crawl out of their graves and it bothers me.
Jenny: He looked dirty to me.
Kristin: He was not dirty. His first hand came out, no dirt moved. Zero dirt. The second hand was under one small dirt pile [Jenny laughs], and then his whole body came out and he was not dirty. But there’s two things in this first bit that I loved too. One is Willow tries to fight him. They all sort of miss him, he’s doing a lot of jumps and crazy moves.
Jenny: Yeah ‘cause he was on the gymnastics team.
Kristin: Right, that’s one of the things is that they’re like "Oh, well he used to be on the gymnastics team," right?
Jenny: Right ‘cause statistically they’re probably going to know most of the vampires since their school has such a high mortality rate.
Kristin: Right but we haven’t learned– unless I’m mistaken, there has been nothing else in the series up until this one randomly placed line to let us believe that if you had abilities as a human...
Jenny: Ahhhhh.
Kristin: That you will retain those abilities as a vampire.
Jenny: Right. They all just sort of seem to come out of the ground with the same basic...
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Karate skills?
Kristin: Right, so I just thought this was fun. I thought, you know, perhaps Angel had a lifetime of brooding before.
Jenny: Ohh.
Kristin: He was good at it before he was a vamp is all that I’m saying.
Jenny: Right. So then it’s just enhanced [Kristin laughs] when he becomes– got it.
Kristin: Right. Enhanced brooding for Eddie or Andy or whatever this gymnast vampire’s name is.
Jenny: Uh huh.
Kristin: Enhanced gymnastics skills. And I also love– there’s this beautiful culmination and the vampire’s running away and Oz grabs the stake–
Jenny: And he like stares it down [Kristin laughs] and he’s like "Mmmm" and licks his finger and sticks it into the wind to see which way the wind is blowing…
Kristin: Uh huh.
Jenny: And then hucks that stake.
Kristin: And then clank [Jenny laughs]. It just lands on the– like nowhere close to it. It’s really really great. And it’s a perfect snapshot of the Scoobies attempting this without Buffy.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: Right? Like the heart is there. The energy is there. It’s just the skillset… [laughs] not as much.
Jenny: This is definitely– if this were a movie and Buffy was never coming back for the rest of the movie…
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: This would be the before training montage.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: This would be their sort of Three Stooges version of trying to slay.
Kristin: yeah. It’s very sweet, it’s very good to see them all. But of course Buffy isn’t there and they have this conversation before they leave the graveyard about school starting the next day.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: It’s really sad because you can see that they’re all amped up on trying to fight vampires. But then reality sets in and they’re like "we start school and she’s still not back." There’s a couple of cute moments, Willow wondering what her first homework assignment will be.
Jenny: Uh huh.
Kristin: Very very sweet. And Oz we learn in this moment, right, Oz has graduated, or so we think.
Jenny: Hah!
Kristin: So Oz isn’t going to be back to school. Of course, that isn’t actually the truth. We will get to that. But the scene ends with Willow, right? I think it’s Willow saying "I wish we knew where she was."
Jenny: Yeah. Cut to! [they both laugh]
Kristin: Don’t you wish you knew where she was?!
Jenny: [high-pitched] She’s standing on a beach in a white sweater staring somberly out across the waves. But then of course it’s revealed immediately that of course, this isn’t a real beach somewhere.
Kristin: Right and I mean, maybe in 1998– Is that what year we’re still in? 1998?
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Maybe in 1998 for a minute you thought she was on a beach with Angel, but this was pretty heavy-handedly a dream.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: And you know, there’s this back and forth between her and Angel. "[dramatically] If I was blind, I would see you."
Jenny: Uh huh.
Kristin: You know, it’s very romantic in an over the top way and ends of course, this is reminiscent of that scene where Buffy is like "[melodramatically] When I kiss you, you make me want to die!" [Jenny laughs] And runs away. This scene ends with "Not even if you kill me" and then she wakes up.
Jenny: Right. But we should also mention that she says "Stay with me" and he says "Forever". That’s the whole point.
Kristin: Right, of course.
Jenny: It’s important to mention that because it does come back.
Kristin: It does, it does. If you haven’t watched the episode, what are you doing listening to this? Go watch the episode and then come back.
Jenny: Then she wakes up from this dreamy nightmare and walks to the window where there are many sirens blaring.
Kristin: Right and this is– I’ll probably talk about this again, I don’t know. But this whole Skid Row thing in this episode… I have on one hand an appreciation for the fact that we’ve come out of the end of Season 2 where Buffy has essentially been told by her mom when she came out of the closet to not come back home. So she is a runaway teen and a runaway LGBTS teen– "S" for Slayer.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: You know what I’m saying? If we’re following the narrative, if we’re following the metaphor through, that this is really following a coming out trajectory, then I have a lot of respect for the fact that this is a huge thing, right? LGBT homeless youth, this is a huge population and a huge issue in our country and abroad of young people who are kicked out of their homes when they come out or when they’re outed and so on and so forth. But there’s a certain something about the way the city, like the gritty city is depicted that just rubs me the wrong way. It seems like– I just feel like the show is so imaginative and so complex in so many of its layers that it just felt a little bit like they were like "Okay, how do we signal that she’s on Skid Row?" And they were like "How about we pan down and there’s a siren." [Jenny laughs] You know what I mean? I don’t know, I just–
Jenny: It is the shortest of short hands.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: I mean we’re trying to get to the credits here.
Kristin: It is, it is. And we do. We do get to the credits.
Jenny: We do and they are new! So many things are happening. New logo. New recording of Nerf Herder playing the theme song.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Seth Green is in the credits.
Kristin: Yeah! A lot of werewolf clips too.
Jenny: A lot of werewolf clips. Xander fresh out of the pool [saucily] in the credits.
Kristin: [laughs] Giles with a fire sword in the credits. [Jenny laughs] Very exciting. And everybody looks old– like everybody looks more wizened, you know what I mean?
Jenny: Yeah, more experienced.
Kristin: Yeah, we watched Season 2 and Season 3 credits back to back just to like– At first I thought we were going to note the differences and then I was like the entire thing is different.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: But you know, they all look kind of baby-faced in the Season 2 credits?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Even the logo looks baby-faced. And like everyone has grown up. Has seen a little more.
Jenny: Yeah. They’re getting older, they’re entering their third season of shooting this show which is a lot of really late into the night shoots–
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah.
Jenny: Spending a lot of time I’m sure on promotional events…
Kristin: Wow, so this isn’t even just acting. This is just–
Jenny: No, no!
Kristin: Jenny’s theory is the actors are old and tired [Jenny laughs] and they look it in the credits. Everybody looks great.
Jenny: No, I just think they’ve been doing a really hard job for a little while.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Not that– I mean some of them come to the show with varying levels of experience but this particular show I feel is like– they look like we did when we got to the end of taping Season 2 of this show [Kristin laughs]. Maybe that’s what I’m thinking of.
Kristin: [laughs] Oh yeah, if we had credits, we would definitely look older and more wizened now [They both laugh].
Jenny: We also get a new closing shot of the credits where Buffy is holding that great sort of semicircular ax weapon.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: That we’ll see later in this episode [excitedly] which is so great.
Kristin: And that comes from this episode which is so fun. And so after the credits, we go to Buffy waiting tables.
Jenny: She’s just doing what every waitress does. Delivering food and absorbing as much sexual harassment as she can without spontaneously combusting.
Kristin: And you know, if we were doing this show live– if we were taping this podcast as the show was airing, I would go out on the limb and say "You know, I think someone in the writer’s room was listening to our podcast."
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: Because they opened the whole season with the patriarchy.
Jenny: The patriarchy!
Kristin: Didn’t they?!
NOTES: [The Patriarchy jingle plays] [Creepy organ music] The patriarchy! [Thunder claps]
Kristin: That was our new patriarchy jingle created by Jenny Owen Youngs. If you didn’t listen to our recap, you missed a lot. We have a few new jingles.
Jenny: Yeah, the season 2 wrap up was just filthy with jingles.
Kristin: Speaking of filthy, these two filthy men…
Jenny: First of all, what are these truck– You know how truckers are always stopping in downtown L.A?! [Kristin laughs] Shouldn’t they be at a Love’s or a Flying Jay’s somewhere?
Kristin: Yeah true. But who knows? I don’t know. I have not been to diners in downtown L.A. Maybe there’s a couple…
Jenny: We will have to do some research.
Kristin: We’ll have to. We’re here, we can.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: But yeah, there’s just this disgusting moment. "Sure you don’t want me to work it off for you?" says one of the men.
Jenny: Blah!
Kristin: Then they slap– then this one man slaps her ass. And this is a really important moment.
Jenny: This is where I can’t suspend my disbelief, but maybe…
Kristin: No! This is where– I think this is very pointed because we’ve seen Buffy’s ass get slapped one other time.
Jenny: Mmmm.
Kristin: And it was by Larry and it was in the gym.
Jenny: [laughs] Oh yeah.
Kristin: And she flipped that fucker onto the ground in a split second. And we see her– because the camera pans right into the back of her head when it happens. And you see her look and you see her squash it all down, right? And it’s signalling to us that she’s not Buffy right now. Or she is–
Jenny: Ahhh.
Kristin: Because you see that instinct of "I’m going to kick this guy’s ass," but that’s not why she’s here, right?
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: She’s not here to make a scene, fight back, whatever. She’s here because she wanted to disappear.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: And so I think that it’s a really important moment that we see her swallow this because we would never see Buffy swallow this in any other context.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Anyway, can we talk about her hair for a second?
Jenny: Go for it.
Kristin: Okay, well I’m not going to say a lot because I don’t know if you have heard of Kate Leth, [Jenny laughs] but Kate Leth is back in this episode and she has a couple of things to say about hair. But my one note was when in the hell did she have time to get these highlights done? She left in her sad overalls, she walked onto the bus, she took the bus to Los Angeles where she somehow got a job waiting tables and saved enough money to get an apartment. I don’t know, whatever. [Jenny laughs] But when did she, how did she… I just, there’s a little hole there for me. But looking good.
Jenny: Totally.
Kristin: So, shall we hear from Kate?
Jenny: Let’s do it.
Kristin: Great.
NOTES: [Buffy Fashion Watch intro jingle plays] It’s time for our friend Kate To give you the Buffy fashion update.
Kate: Welcome back to Buffy Fashion Watch as we careen headfirst into Season 3. There is so much exciting fashion to come; I cannot wait to start talking about all the pleather. But this episode starts pretty innocuously, there’s not a ton of fashion stand outs. Even Cordelia, aside from her satine cloud-printed pants which are quite something and her almost sweater set that matches her purse exactly, it’s also very very good. But the real standouts here are the haircuts and there’s nothing that I love more than a new season haircut. It is such a staple and it is just such an enjoyment for me. This season we get to see Willow finally get a grownup haircut, which I’m referring to as the "Claire Danes in My So-Called Life, " and yeah, I checked the timelines and it makes sense. Buffy gets "the Rachel." It doesn’t stick around as far as I can remember although she definitely has those light blond streaks in the front for most of the season. But the Rachel, the Rachel! The most famous haircut of all time. And I started to talk about her having it in Season 2 and then I realized "No, no she gets it for real later on" and also, the timelines make sense. This would have happened after the first and second season of Friends. And I did a little bit of research into the Rachel because I’ve always found it really fascinating. I remember growing up and just seeing people talk about it everywhere and every hairdresser, it was the bane of their existence and
People Magazine always had it on the cover: "This is the haircut, this is the thing that will change your whole life." There’s a section on Jennifer Aniston– well, Rachel’s Wikipedia page about her impact or the impact of her character and it’s five paragraphs and four of them are about her haircut. It also credits that haircut with making her the highest paid performer on Friends. D  id you also know that by the ninth and tenth seasons of Friends , they were all making a million dollars per episode? Although Jennifer Aniston was making slightly more than Courtney Cox and the website credits that with her haircut. Her haircut! I can’t even believe it. Anyway, it’s not my favorite of Buffy’s haircuts. But it is cute that it starts to vary a little bit more and everyone gets really good looks this season. I even really like the scene in the Bronze where Willow’s got on that daisy shirt with the long sleeves. She looks a little bit bolder, she looks like she has a little bit more style and if you forget about the horrible purple hat she wears in the second or third scene in the library, ugh God... it’s pretty good. I’m so excited for the rest of the season and until then, I’ll see you at the mall.
NOTES: [Buffy Fashion Watch outro jingle plays] That was our friend Kate She gave you the Buffy fashion update.
Jenny: Thank you Kate. Good to be back down street from your mall.
Kristin: [laughs] Nothing pleases me more than when we get to pull in other 90s television show references into this one and compare and contrast our 90s knowledge. It’s just a joy.
Jenny: Wow. Truly.
Kristin: Truly. So we’re back at the diner and this is when we meet Lily– well we’re meeting this character whose name is now Lily and her boyfriend Ricky, and they’re having this conversation about what to get.
Jenny: Okay, here’s the thing. She’s like "What’ll you have?" and Ricky’s like "What can we get for this?" and he puts on the table I believe seven pennies–
Kristin: You counted?
Jenny: And like three nickels and a couple of dimes. And then they’re like "Should we get cake?" Lily’s like "Should we get cake?" and Ricky’s like "No, we got to be healthy. We should get pie."
Kristin: "We should get pie."
Jenny: Because fruit. But let me tell you what the amount of change that they put on the table will not buy [Kristin laughs] is even a slice of pie in 1998 in downtown L.A.
Kristin: Yeah, for those of you listening who weren’t born in 1998, you could not get pie. [Jenny laughs] Although I will say, here’s the thing, I didn’t count the change but it was believable to me because I was a smoker in 1998. A brand new baby smoker. Don’t worry everyone, I quit–
Jenny: Uh huh. Don’t smoke kids. Don’t start smoking to try to be cool like teen Kristin.
Kristin: [laughs] Oh my god. Teen Kristin, I don’t know that you’d classify her as cool, but... [Jenny laughs]. I remember because I smoked for seven years, and by the end of my smoking journey, it cost a lot of money to buy a pack of cigarettes. But at the beginning in 1998, I could scrounge around in the bottom of my car for change and come up with enough change to buy a pack of cigarettes because it was two bucks or something.
Jenny: First of all, it’s really troubling to me that you were just throwing change on the floor of your car all willy nilly.
Kristin: I was throwing everything.
Jenny: That is unacceptable.
Kristin: Did you always keep a clean car?
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: Wow, even as a teen?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: My car was a living nightmare. My parents were always like "What? Why? How?" You know?
Jenny: I too would like to know why and how.
Kristin: I mean, I was a teen! I had things to do like buy cigarettes with my change.
Jenny: [laughs] Okay.
Kristin: Come on. Anyway, Lily who we have met already as Chanterelle–
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Recognizes Buffy and this is another moment where we’re like ‘Oh, Buffy is super hiding right?’ Because as soon as Lily is like "Do I know you?" Buffy is out. She’s like "I don’t feel well, cover my shift, bye."
Jenny: Right but Buffy doesn’t cut out before Lily and Ricky show her their matching tattoos.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: And she’s like "Whoa, that’s pretty permanent." And Ricky echoes Angel from her dream nightmare…
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: By saying "Yeah, forever. That’s the whole point."
Kristin: Right. Which is weird. [spooky voice] How did he know? [Jenny laughs] Then we cut to the library which is hopping. The library–
Jenny: Never seen–
Kristin: No! [laughs]
Jenny: A fraction of that many people in the library.
Kristin: The library has– the entire school is in the library.
Jenny: So Giles works at the library primarily for one day per year.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Right?
Kristin: First day of school.
Jenny: He’s hired all year so that he can definitely be there to absorb the extreme shockwaves on day one of school.
Kristin: Yeah. I’m going to tell you what, a lot of satisfaction– What do you call that stuff that like, when people like watching people pop bubble wrap or whatever, it’s called A-S-M…
Jenny: ASMR?
Kristin: Yeah, ASMR.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: I had a little bit of that when he was scanning the barcodes with the little pen with the light on it [Jenny laughs]. Just an extreme sense of satisfaction from that moment.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: So whatever. The library’s hopping. Now briefly Kate mentioned this, but I just want to take a moment for Cordelia’s– I called it a sweater set. I mean Kate’s the expert here.
Jenny: Right. We defer to her expertise.
Kristin: But this lime-green yellow situation?
Jenny: She looks great.
Kristin: She looks real good .
Jenny: She looks like a cup of sherbert.
Kristin: She does and you know who else looks like a cup of sherbert but in a very different way is Willow.
Jenny: Yeaah.
Kristin: With this purple hat.
Jenny: Noooo.
Kristin: This has to be one of Willow’s more famous hats. I’ve seen it a lot on the internet. [Jenny laughs] It’s quite a choice. But you know, it’s the first day of school!
Jenny: Yeah. Dress to impress.
Kristin: Yeah, you gotta pick your best stuff and for Willow, her hat… [they both laugh] her hat is it. So Cordelia and Xander have this whole thing going on where they’re just losing their minds.
Jenny: Right, they’re really excited to see each other but they don’t want each other to know.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: And they’re both convinced that the other person lost interest over the summer. Mind you, so Cordelia apparently went on vacation the day after school ended and didn’t get back until last night.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: So she hasn’t seen Xander all summer.
Kristin: In my mind, Cordelia went to Dirty Dancing and came back.
Jenny: Oh my god!
Kristin: Like 100%.
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: Cordelia, if you just followed Cordelia, you’d watch the movie Dirty Dancing but Cordelia would be– I think Cordelia would be the older sister? Sorry, I mean she wouldn’t. Cordelia would be Penny. Let’s be real, Cordelia would be Penny.
Jenny: My very gauzy memories of Dirty Dancing line up with that.
Kristin: Penny is the one that Patrick Swayze is…
Jenny: Helping out.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: I’m just trying to think of the coolest person in Dirty Dancing. 
Jenny: Right [laughs].
Kristin: And I think it’s Penny.
Jenny: It’s totally Penny.
Kristin: So [laughs] anyway. They’re back and they’re doing this whole dance–
Jenny: Oh my gosh, oh sorry.
Kristin: No, I just think it’s hilarious how that whole thing ends–
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: Is like "I’m going to this and I’m going to that and he’s going to this and he’s going to that" and then we finally see them get together and they have nothing to say to each other. [Jenny laughs] They sort of sputter out and kind of fight but not really and that’s the end of it. What were you going to say Jenny, because I want to talk about what leads us to this.
Jenny: Right. I was going to say towards the beginning of this scene [laughing] when Willow and Cordelia first start talking. Willow’s like "How was your summer?" and Cordelia’s response is "I can’t believe you brought that up." [They both laugh] Which is so great.
Kristin: It really is and so this camera work. I mean we don’t often talk about camera work on the podcast but this is an incredible shot. This shot starts with Cordelia and Willow outside the library and it winds us through Oz and Willow. Then we get to Willow, Oz, and Xander. Then we get Larry walking by which I want to talk about.
Jenny: Yep.
Kristin: Then we get– you know, there’s a million cuts and angles and this reminded me of a scene from West Wing Weekly with the walking–
Jenny: You mean The West Wing? [laughs]
Kristin: Shut up.
Jenny: I don’t think they’re doing walk-and-talks on West Wing Weekly.
Kristin: Yeah they are, you just can’t see them! They’re walking the whole time.
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah.
Kristin: [laughs] Right, The West Wing. Not to be confused with the West Wing Weekly. I just thought it was incredible and worth noting. Oz is still in school. Oz, we find out, did not do summer school. He’s back.
Jenny: Right. Whoops, forgot to do summer school.
Kristin: Which is convenient for the show. You know, it’s a lot easier to have Oz involved in the storyline if Oz is attending high school [Jenny laughs]. But yeah, we have Xander say this horrible comment about heat and ducking and covering. I don’t like it, no thank you. No thank you. And then Larry. I love this moment with Larry.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: First of all, "It’s all about egg whites," Larry shouts. "It’s all about egg whites."
Jenny: I love it. He’s like "Egg whites good, mysterious deaths bad."
Kristin: Yeah, he’s like "If we can focus, keep discipline, and not have so many mysterious deaths, Sunnydale is going to rule." It’s just [laughs], it’s such a great line. It’s such a great line and such a good moment. Larry, we love you.
Jenny: So–
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: I do want to say before we leave this long, beautiful, artfully crafted walk-and-talk. So West Wing Weekly doesn’t– [pauses]
Kristin: Ha ha! Got you.
Jenny: Yeah, they got me. Fuckers. West Wing doesn’t start until what? 1999 I believe?
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: This is 1998 and I recall from the commentary of an episode, a very important episode in Season 5, where there is a similar long walk-and-talk–
Kristin: Mmmm.
Jenny: That visits multiple people over the course of itself where the director of that episode talked about just being really influenced by Paul Thomas Anderson who famously directed movies that are full of long-ass walk-and-talks like Boogie Nights and Magnolia. Boogie Nights came out in 1997.
Kristin: Ohhh, interesting.
Jenny: So if we’re going to guess what the inspiration for this long scene is, I’m going to say PTA, Boogie Nights.
Kristin: Wow, Boogie Nights. L  et’s watch that again someday soon.
Jenny: Oh my god, yes.
Kristin: What a great– I love Boogie Nights. It was a revolutionary movie of its time.
Jenny: Most definitely.
Kristin: I mean god, it really was such a big deal. You said ‘97?
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: So yeah, as a 17-year-old that was like "Movies are so cool!" You know? [They both laugh] Okay, so that’s the walk and talk. That’s the scene we get in the school. Now we cut back [Jenny laughs] to the– [frustrated] and this is what I’m talking about. About heavy-handed, like fine with the siren. But really? A can?
Jenny: Of Spaghetti-Os?
Kristin: Might as well be a can of beans, guys. Come on.
Jenny: Well here’s the thing. Here’s the thing. She’s having a hard time. She’s too sad to worry about whether or not she’s being a cinematic cliche.
Kristin: Okay, that’s true. Have you ever eaten out of a cold can before?
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Because I have.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: When did you eat out of a cold can?
Jenny: I’m sure when I was very sad or very young.
Kristin: Yeah, I was very tired and ill and on tour and I didn’t have–
Jenny: Ugh.
Kristin: I just– you know all the restaurants in that city were closed.
Jenny: Ohhh, I remember. Those cans.
Kristin: Yes and it was very sad. So it does happen, but it’s just– I don’t know. I just need a little bit more.
Jenny: It’s again the shortest of hands. There’s a lot happening in this episode, a lot to explain.
Kristin: Right, there is. There is. And this is the first time that we see somebody, I think it’s an old woman in the first shot…
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Who says "I’m no one."
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: Bringing us into what I would like to call our Game of Thrones parallel, this episode–
Jenny: [laughing] What?!
Kristin: Listen Jenny.
Jenny: Ohhhh.
Kristin: "I’m no one." They–
Jenny: You think that underground place we’re going to is the House of Black and White?
Kristin: I do, I think it’s the origin story for the God of Many Faces. What’s his name?
Jenny: Wow. The God of Many Faces?
Kristin: Yeah, the Many Faced God.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: I think there’s a tie in here because you know what? On top of everyone having to say "I am no one." "Who are you?" I am no one. [Jenny laughs] I have no name," what’s-his-face, Ken, falls through the floor and pulls off his rubber face.
Jenny: Right, oh that’s an excellent, excellent point.
Kristin: The parallels are everywhere.
Jenny: A lot of rubber faces in the House of Black and White.
Kristin: So lot of, yes. So I’m just saying you know what? I think down there somewhere, the God of Many–
Jenny: Jaqen H'ghar’s chilling.
Kristin: Jaqen H'ghar’s down there man. [both laugh] Anyhow, then we also see it cuts to Giles.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: We learn that Giles of course, who loves to break our hearts…
Jenny: [sighs sadly] Dad!
Kristin: Ugh, has just been following all these leads trying to find Buffy.
Jenny: Of course he has.
Kristin: Of course he has.
Jenny: [sighs] And he’s off to check on another one, right?
Kristin: Yes. He’s off to San Francisco? Is that where he’s going?
Jenny: Oakland.
Kristin: Oakland. Not to be confused with San Francisco, I’m so sorry.
Jenny: Often to be confused.
Kristin: Yes, I’ve gotten in trouble for that before. But I know you’re a different city Oakland. I know you’re a different city than San Francisco, everyone calm down.
Jenny: So, Buffy’s out for a late night stroll on Skid Row. As you do.
Kristin: Of course, yes.
Jenny: And who should come up behind her but Lily? First calling out Anne and then calling out Buffy.
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: Indicating that she has put the pieces together.
Kristin: Mmhmm. And we get Lily’s whole backstory.
Jenny: Right. She’s like "Oh, I used to hang with this group of people who worshipped vampires…"
Kristin: And Buffy has no time for it. She’s like "Okay, yes I remember. [Jenny laughs] Jesus, yes, fine." Right. But there’s something that happens between the two of them too here where Lily is really reaching out to Buffy–
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: And saying "Listen, I know how it is when you need to get lost okay? We might not have been on the same plane when we were in Sunnydale but here, I’ve kind of been walking this path for a long time and so, if you want help or you want to talk or if you want whatever, maybe you want to come to this party with me…"
Jenny: A rave. There’s a rave. A house rave.
Kristin: Yes, and you know, in this day and age, it’s not as common to hear somebody say "Hey, there’s a rave happening in so-and-so’s basement." But I do want to say that in the 90s, there were a lot of raves [laughs].
Jenny: Yeah, I think– I was thinking when we were watching it "Oh my god, a rave? Like that is the last thing I would like to be invited to." But then thinking back to my 1998 self, if somebody had been like "Do you want to go to this rave?" I would be already in their car.
Kristin: Yeah, I’m pretty sure I went to raves. I mean, listen I don’t know. I don’t know the textbook definition of a rave [Jenny laughs] but I definitely went to things where people had lots of glowsticks.
Jenny: Right, I think that’s the number one ingredient.
Kristin: And were dancing…
Jenny: Number two ingredient.
Kristin: And a lot of them were on ecstasy.
Jenny: Number three ingredient.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Glowsticks, dancing, ecstasy.
Kristin: And ecstasy. That’s how you make a rave, right?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: That’s the… okay. [They both laugh]
Jenny: Bring it to a boil and then cover it and simmer for [Kristin laughs] till the morning light.
Kristin: So anyhow, of course. Buffy is saying "No, I can’t. It’s too many people for me right now." And she’s really actually trying to say "You know, I might want to spend time with you but I can’t go to a party right now."
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: "...It’s too overwhelming for me." And then this man walks through, saying– well he doesn’t say anything at first.
Jenny: Uh huh.
Kristin: He walks out into the middle of the street saying "I am no one."
Jenny: Yep.
Kristin: Second time we hear it. Buffy saves him from getting hit by a car but for some reason gets hit by the car?
Jenny: We’ve seen her push Cordelia–
Kristin: Yeah!
Jenny: Out of the way of a UPS truck…
Kristin: And stay out of the way herself.
Jenny: Yes. But for some reason, she did it the other way this time.
Kristin: Yeah, she got hit by a car but obviously she’s fine because she’s you know, one girl in all the world, et cetera, et cetera.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: And everyone’s like "Oh my god, are you okay?"
Jenny: Making a fuss and she just doesn’t want to be seen by anyone.
Kristin: She doesn’t, she just said she doesn’t like a lot of people around her [Jenny laughs] so she runs off into one of the alleyways. Very nice to see that Los Angeles equipped with all of the alleys that a Slayer needs.
Jenny: [laughs] Yep. Just like home.
Kristin: Yep and she runs right into Ken. This is the first time that we meet Ken. I love Ken.
Jenny: Ken is great.
Kristin: Ken is a great villain. I believe Ken to be a great villain and we meet him and he’s like you know, whatever. "You look lost" and "This isn’t a place for kids" and "You should come to this house" and "I’ll give you hope" and da da da" [Jenny laughs] And then the music starts to play, doesn’t it? [Jenny sighs] It starts to play. I called it a Sarah McLachlan moment even though we looked it up–
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: And this is Belly Love. Belly Love is the name of this band playing at the Bronze. But the music starts with a montage– And again, I’m sorry. I don’t… It just– none of it felt real enough to me. I don’t know what it– and I wish I had a more eloquent way of digging into why… It just felt… You know when you watch those videos of the puppies? That’s why I called it a Sarah McLachlan theme.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: And it’s like really? Where did you get the footage for– I don’t know, you know? It’s just felt a little heavy handed.
Jenny: You know what I think?
Kristin: What do you think?
Jenny: I think a lot about– I’m trying to remember maybe the person that I’ve heard talk about this is Joanna Robinson?
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Friend of the pod Joanna Robinson? [Kristin laughs] And forgive me if I’m miscrediting but the idea that there are pre-9/11 movies and post-9/11 movies?
Kristin: Oooo.
Jenny: And American Beauty is the example that I recall of a movie that wouldn’t have gotten made after 9/11.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Because the way– the issues that it dealt with were not sort of global? You know what I mean?
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: It was like totally personal and very white and just sort of singular, and in a post-9/11 world, a movie like that feels less meaningful and heavy?
Kristin: Interesting.
Jenny: And I feel, maybe I’m off the mark here, but I feel like this little montage–
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: 20 years later feels like just sort of like a cartoon of what–
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: You know, the way that we think about things now.
Kristin: Yeah, you know as you’re saying that, I’m thinking about, so My So-Called Life is a show that I did watch as it aired and there’s a very very famous– can you even call it a famous episode when there’s 13 episodes total?
Jenny: Uh, there’s 19 episodes?
Kristin: Sorry, 19 episodes. But the Christmas episode…
Jenny: Guest starring Juliana Hatfield?
Kristin: Yes, guest starring Juliana Hatfield–
Jenny: Hell yes!
Kristin: As a homeless young person.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And I should go back and rewatch that. I mean let’s be real, we should go back and watch that whole series.
Jenny: Absolutely.
Kristin: And we should do a podcast about it.
Jenny: Oops.
Kristin: Okay great. We’ll be doing that. We see… I feel like at the time I was like "This is the most meaningful, powerful, impactful thing" and I was so proud of the show for showing this. So I imagine that if I had watched this in 1998, you’re right, I would have been in a different mindset and I would have felt very differently about it. And I still have appreciation for it, they don’t gloss it over. The show is attempting to say like "Hey, this is a problem that young kids are homeless and have been kicked out of their homes and da da da" but… whatever. You’re right. American Beauty. On and on and on. You don’t– we don’t need to go too much further but Belly Love is playing. It’s very depressing. Xander even calls it depressing when we cut to the Bronze. He says something very problematic which is he’s really jealous because he thinks Cordelia may have had an affair with Pedro the Cabana Boy.
Jenny: [frustrated] Xander…
Kristin: Xander! Jesus.
Jenny: Oh my god, that should be a segment. "[angrily] Xander!" [Kristin laughs] And then we spray him with a water bottle.
Kristin: Oh my god, okay great.
Jenny: Get off the table! [Kristin laughs]
Kristin: I mean he’s super you know, he has some shitty moments in this. This is one of them but you know, he’s feeling really jealous and he’s feeling really dejected and his fucking move is to be like "I know what we fucking need. I know what we’ve been missing. We need Cordelia to be fucking bait."
Jenny: Right and also based on you know, he sees Cordelia at the same time we see Cordelia, basically when he’s like "bait." Xander is dealing with his feelings of insecurity about their relationship by saying shitty things–
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And wanting to put Cordelia in danger. Cordelia is dealing with it by showing up at the Bronze looking amazing.
Kristin: Yeah!
Jenny: Xander, why didn’t you do that instead?
Kristin: Do I sense a Cordelia jingle coming on?
NOTES: [Cordelia jingle plays] Cordelia (ah-ahh) We love you Cordelia (ah-ahh) You’re perfect Cordelia (ah-ahh)
Kristin: Oh how we love you Cordelia. Always and forever. You know who else I love? Joyce.
Jenny: Yeaaah, Joyce!
Kristin: Oh we go to this scene with Joyce and Giles, Giles and Joyce. Joyce is blaming Giles?!
Jenny: Love it.
Kristin: Joyce is– "I feel like you’ve taken her away from me" she says?
Jenny: I mean imagine if you were a parent…
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And this other adult had this totally close and unknown to you until very recently relationship with your kid.
Kristin: Yeah, no. I’m totally team Joyce on this one. I mean not that I think Giles did anything wrong. But I really understand where she’s coming from emotionally.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: And then Giles bats back "I didn’t make her Buffy who she is." Still some undertones, I want to say, of this coming out arc, right?
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: The parent thinks that who the kid’s been hanging out with is the reason the kid is who the kid is.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: Not true, the kid is who the kid is because the kid is who the kid is.
Jenny: [laughs] Well said.
Kristin: I give advice for a living!
Jenny: My beautiful articulate wife.
Kristin: So this is the exchange here. And then we cut back to the diner and in the diner, Lily comes up to Buffy now and this is a pivotal moment for the character of Lily because she says "You know, Buffy…" She’s lost Ricky. She can’t find Ricky. And she goes right to Buffy and she says "You know how to do stuff. I don’t know what to do." And she’s asking Buffy for help. Now we had, as we mentioned at the beginning of the episode, we had the chance to sit down with Julia Lee Stander, who was Julia Lee back when this was filmed, and we were able to talk to her about this character, about her work on this show, about her audition, about so many fun things. And we’re going to share with you that interview as part of this episode, but before we get there, a word, Jenny, from some of our sponsors.
NOTES: [AD BREAK]
Kristin: Today’s episode was brought to you by Lola Tampons. If you are a human with a uterus, you should know about Lola Tampons. They are 100% cotton and the ones with applicators have BPA-free plastic applicators. Their subscription is totally customizable so you can choose a mix of light, regular, super, your number of boxes, and the frequency of delivery because you obviously know your body best. Here’s a scary fact. The FDA does not require brands to disclose a comprehensive list of ingredients in their tampons so most of them don’t. And major brands use a mix of synthetic ingredients in their tampons that have rayon and polyester and their tampons can also be treated with chemicals, fragrances, and dyes. These are things that we put inside of our bodies. Lola sent us a sample box and they’re really really awesome. It’s really fun to get a little box at your doorstep with all the things that you need. It has a little cute message on it. The company is owned by women which rules. And if you’re listening to this podcast, you can get 60% off of your first order. You to go mylola.com and enter ‘Buffy’ when you subscribe. We highly recommend their products, so you should check them out.
Jenny: Today’s episode is also brought to you by Casper. The Casper is an obsessively engineered mattress at a shockingly fair price. Supportive memory foam creates an award-winning sleep surface with just the right sync and just the right bounce.
Kristin: I’d like a t-shirt that says "Just the right sync and just the right bounce." What do you think about that?
Jenny: That sounds great.
Kristin: Great.
Jenny: Try Casper for 100 nights risk free in your own home. If you don’t love it, they’ll pick it up and refund you everything. Casper understands the importance of truly sleeping on a mattress before you commit especially considering you’re going to spend a third of your life on it. A third of your life on it. [Kristin laughs] If you’re in the U.S or Canada, there’s free shipping and returns, so really what do you have to lose? Absolutely nothing, you just have an amazing night’s sleep to gain. Get $50 towards any mattress purchase by visiting www.casper.com/buffy and using offer code "Buffy." Terms and conditions apply.
Kristin: Today’s episode was also brought to you by RXBAR, the whole food protein bar made with a few simple clean ingredients which all serve a purpose. Egg whites for protein, dates to bind, nuts for texture. Also in the interest of full transparency, all of the core ingredients are right on the front on the package. No bullshit. They’re perfect for breakfast on the go, a snack at the office, to throw in your bag for a bike ride, or late nights when you’re patrolling your local graveyard for bloodthirsty vampires. Better yet, beyond being a go-to snack that checks off a number of nutritional boxes, they’re actually delicious. RXBAR sent us a few samples and let me tell you what, that chocolate one, that coconut one, I love them all. They have peanut butter ones with chocolate and without chocolate. Listen, they told me to pick a favorite flavor and I can’t. So I like them all. There’s 11 flavor ones to choose from and they’re all gluten-free, soy-free, dairy-free, and free of added sugar, artificial colors, preservatives, or fillers. You know, all the things America likes to give to us in mass quantities. You can really taste the cacao. You can really taste the fruit. You can really taste the sea salt. It rules. For 25% off of your first order, go to rxbar.com/buffy and enter promo code ‘Buffy’ at checkout. Never go hungry in the graveyard again.
NOTES: [END AD BREAK] [INTERVIEW STARTS]
Jenny: Today we are so so delighted to have the opportunity to speak with Julia Lee Stander who you may know from this very episode we are discussing [Kristin laughs] in the role of Lily and then later Anne. Wow.
Kristin: Well, yeah in this episode but first as Chanterelle.
Julia: That’s right. Hello.
Kristin: And then Lily then eventually as Anne.
Julia: That’s right.
Kristin: That has to be the only character that has had that many names in the series.
Jenny: Right?
Julia: And I don’t think we even know her real name, her given name.
Kristin: Right, although I think the internet…
Jenny: There’s a deep dig. I think maybe it’s been established post-show in the comics.
Kristin: In the later comic arc?
Julia: Oh, okay.
Jenny: Just so you know.
Kristin: [laughing] Yeah just so you know what your real name is.
Julia: Just so I’m in the loop too.
Jenny: Your given name is Joan.
Julia: Okay.
Jenny: But that’s never revealed in Buffy. 
Kristin: In the series yeah. When we did our digging, we were like "Oh, interesting. Joan and…"
Jenny: Right, that was news to us. Thank you so much for taking the time to speak with us today.
Kristin: Yeah.
Julia: I’m so happy to be here.
Kristin: Yeah. We thought it would be fun to start at the beginning. Sort of like, where are you from and how did you come to acting in the first place?
Julia: Well, I grew up in Santa Fe, New Mexico and fell in love with theater in high school.
Kristin: Same [laughs].
Julia: I mean it’s a wonderful thing to do at that stage of your life and it’s quickly addictive, and came out to pursue a theater degree in California at UC Irvine. And took off from there. Came up to Los Angeles in 1997?
Kristin: Oh so this was like…
Julia: This was weeks after I graduated from college.
Kristin: Wow!
Jenny: Whoa! That’s wild.
Julia: Yeah, that same summer.
Kristin: Oh my gosh, so how did you come to the audition?
Julia: So I actually auditioned for a different episode of Buffy. I think it had to do with a sorority?
Jenny: Oh, or a fraternity?
Julia: A fraternity maybe?
Kristin: Ahhh, yes.
Julia: And there was– it was a smaller part and I auditioned for that and I did not get it. And then I got a call to come in for this a few weeks later and then– and she was originally supposed to be a nerdy goth girl. And I got a page on my pager [They all laugh] because it was 1997, on the way to the audition saying well, they’ve rewritten the part and there’s new material and they’ve sort of changed the character and she’s going to be more sexy than nerdy and I looked at what I was wearing and went "welp, guess again [Kristin and Jenny laugh] because I’m already in the car."
Kristin: Right.
Julia: So I guess I’ll try to drive faster and I got there to look at the material, and usually there’s many many people in that waiting room.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Julia: Of course that day, nope. Nobody.
Kristin: Oh wow. Really?
Julia: I walked in and they went "So, whenever you’re ready."
Jenny: Whoah.
Julia: And I went "well, alright. Can I have a minute to look at the new material first?"
Kristin: Yeah.
Julia: And they said "Oh sure, yeah. Go ahead. Take your time." And then I looked it over, certainly did not have time to be off-book but I just went "Alright, well, here we go. [laughs] We’ll walk in" and in a lovely turn of events, there was a guy sitting in the corner with overalls and Doc Martens and a baseball cap and I thought he was the assistant. [Kristin laughs] And they put me on tape and I did my audition and then I left, and 45 minutes later I got a call and they went "Alright, so you’re booked." And I went what?!
Kristin: What?
Julia: I had no callback!
Jenny: Whoah.
Julia: And they– "How did that even happen?" ‘Course I show up on set and the guy in the corner is not the assistant. He’s Joss. [They all laugh]
Kristin: Better that you didn’t know probably.
Jenny: Totally.
Julia: I think way better that I didn’t know because he kept such a low profile and just, you know, kind of giggled to himself at a couple of the lines.
Kristin: Right.
Julia: And then, you know. And so there it was.
Kristin: Wow. What an entry experience into post-college… [laughs]
Julia: I know.
Kristin: Okay, so you come into the audition. You get the role right away and it’s supposed to be, it sounds like, a one episode role.
Julia: Yes.
Kristin: Chanterelle.
Julia: Yes.
Jenny: Did you have any idea at the time that there would be any decision or how did that…
Julia: No, I don’t even know if they thought about that or knew about it.
Kristin: Right.
Julia: I didn’t get a call until probably nine or ten months later.
Kristin: Wow.
Julia: And it was out of the blue for me. And they said "Hey, so we want to expand this character. Would you be interested in coming back?" [Jenny and Kristin laugh] Let me think about that.
Kristin: Yeah [they all laugh]. I have questions, I mean there’s so many things that we can talk about. I have questions just about being on set and being with the other actors and what that experience was like. Did you watch the show? That’s a good starting place. Did you watch Buffy or have you watched the series?
Julia: Yes, and when I did the first episode as Chanterelle and I had never seen it before then. But when I went in for the audition, I think I watched an episode before then.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Julia: And then when I found out I got the role, I just started watching. And then I watched it from there on, you know?
Kristin: Right.
Julia: And so I was familiar with what the characters then had been through all the way to where I was coming back in. [They all laugh]
Kristin: Sort of like you had been following them on social media, but…
NOTES: [laughs]
Julia: And yeah, it was a little intimidating you know? Because then they were larger than life to me.
Jenny and Kristin: Mmmm.
Julia: Whereas when I first came in, I went "Oh okay. I don’t really know what I’m getting into."
Kristin: Right.
Julia: I knew a little bit, I tried to do some research and some homework but you know, now it’s– [laughs] there’s a whole world.
Kristin: Right, right.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Do you have specific memories of times on set whether it’s from that first episode as Chanterelle or this episode "Anne" specifically that come to mind?
Julia: Yeah. Well the first episode, the hair, makeup, and wardrobe people did such a good job and then all of the extras, I think, were goth kids [Jenny laughs] that they had in that club.
Kristin: Right.
Julia: And you know, I just assumed that’s how I was found too and didn’t really think about, oh well, this is not how I showed up. Because they did show up on set like that.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Uh huh.
Julia: You know, they had done their own amazing hair and makeup–
Kristin: Oh wow.
Julia: And they had these awesome outfits and they did invite me to, I think it was a goth volleyball game.
Jenny: What?! [They all laugh]
Kristin: The most California thing I think I have ever heard of.
Julia: [They all laugh] I remember being very surprised at that. But I thought it was pretty cool.
Kristin: It just seems like the makeup would run.
Julia: I know, right?
Kristin: Sports and like goth, in general…
Jenny: And also direct sunlight and goths.
Kristin: Yeah. Well you’re picturing beach volleyball, maybe it was…
Jenny: Oh, right.
Kristin: Was it beach volleyball or… ?
Julia: I don’t remember [they all laugh].
Jenny: Indoor with all the lights off. Infrared volleyball?
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Night-vision goggles.
Kristin: Night light volleyball, yeah. [They all laugh] Well, and one of the questions I had too was about your preparation for the roles. I mean obviously when you were preparing for Chanterelle, you didn’t yet know that there would be a Lily, but what did that look like on either end? ‘Cause they’re the same person at different phases of life, but very different environment.
Julia: Yeah I think for Chanterelle, she feels more a part of mainstream society. She’s got friends or at least people she thinks are her friends.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Julia: And she seems to be more social and at least have access to some kind of hair and makeup [They all laugh] and clothing. It’s not clear where she gets this all from…
Kristin: Right.
Julia: She has fallen on really hard times and she’s about as lost as you can be when we see her the next time as Lily.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Julia: And you know, you can only imagine that her home life was bad enough that she will not acknowledge it even when Buffy asks her directly, you know?
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Julia: And that she is happier living in abandoned warehouses and having greasy, greasy hair [They all laugh] than going back to anything she knew.
Kristin: Was there conversation on the– ‘cause this episode, "Anne," is really rooted in homeless youth and I wonder what the conversation was. I mean I have no idea what it’s like on a television set but if there was a conversation around the reality of this and integrating that into the preparation for the episode or the role?
Julia: I mean we did shoot in downtown Los Angeles near Skid Row and it was [sighs] you know, painfully ironic that we had extras playing homeless children and in one of the scenes with Ken the social worker, I remember we shot that outside against the front of a building and I could look across the street and there were just lines of tents.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Julia: You know? So yeah, there was definitely a cognizance of what was happening and I think, you know, the locations were chosen on purpose.
Kristin: Yeah, absolutely. And for us too, we’re coming out of the arc, I mean I guess you said you listened to the last episode, we talked a lot about Buffy–
Julia: Mmhmm.
Kristin: How she’s just sort of come out to her parent and then has run away from home and sort of been kicked out of her home. It skirts the line because Joyce does want her back but you know, that’s at play too here.
Julia: Yeah.
Kristin: Which is, you know, testament to the show of giving those things visibility and bringing light to those things.
Julia: Yeah for sure.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Let’s talk about the real wallop of an arc that takes place for your character just in this one episode. You come back into Buffy’s orbit and you are at a very low point, lost. You’ve got one person that you’re clinging to and then that person disappears. And then by the end of the episode, you are essentially responsible for defeating Ken, the evil demonic social worker.
Julia: Yes.
Kristin: Whom I dislike, but kind of like [They all laugh].
Julia: He’s a really nice guy from what I remember in real life, so he couldn’t quite hide all of that [laughing].
Kristin: Ken is a likeable demon who you probably want to die, but you know. [laughs] Sorry Jenny, I didn’t mean to interrupt your train of thought.
Jenny: No, no. I feel like Lily takes strength from Buffy, you know. And Buffy also learns from Lily and ultimately I think Lily helps Buffy realize that she can go home.
Julia: So I watched this episode yesterday with my daughter who had never seen it before.
Kristin: Oh wooow.
Jenny: Whoah, that’s so cool!
Julia: And the first thing she said was "Mommy, your voice sounds so different." And I said "Well, look at who this character is. I mean she’s as lost as you can get and that comes through. It comes through in her body language and it comes through in her voice and she’s just very insecure and also… [pauses] looking for guidance for sure. Like she tends to follow strong personalities.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Right.
Julia: There she was in the vampire cult, there she was following Ricky, there she was saying "Oh I used to follow this– " Who was it? It was a preacher.
Jenny: Oh yeah.
Kristin: Oh, some some–
Julia: I called myself Sister Sunshine.
Kristin: Yeah, Sister Sunshine.
Julia: But she finally takes that and gets it right when she focuses her energy on Buffy.
Jenny: Yes.
Julia: And she says to herself you know, "Oh, this is someone– " I don’t think she’s ever had a role model like that in her life or probably she would have been following them.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: Right.
Julia: And so she is seeing for the first time someone that’s a woman that’s taking charge. And no, Lily doesn’t have superhuman powers or anything, but I think it plants a seed for her.
Kristin: Yeah, and that’s sort of the series in a nutshell is giving that strength. Letting people know that they also have that strength whether or not they’re a Slayer or not. If they have magical powers or not. That we all walk with that strength in us.
Julia: Yeah.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: You mentioned watching the episode with your daughter and I just wonder– You said a little bit but I would love to hear what that experience is like for you and for her and if she had questions and/or does she want to watch Buffy the series?
Julia: I think that she for sure wants to watch the series. [Kristin and Jenny laugh] She’s big into fantasy too. She just loves Percy Jackson and Harry Potter and she’s just, she kind of refuses to read anything that isn’t fantasy right now. [They all laugh].
Jenny: Awesome.
Julia: I think she’s primed, she’s the key demographic here as she gets older.
Kristin: Right right.
Julia: She… I did have to point out a couple of times you know, that "See the guy that’s the demon? He’s a really nice guy. [They laugh] He had to spend a solid couple of hours in hair and makeup to look like that."
Jenny: Right, right.
Julia: And anyway, I get the better of him. Just watch. [They all laugh]
Kristin: Anyway, Mom wins.
Julia: Yeah, that’s right.
Kristin: It is pretty cool to show your child a character where you were the one to defeat the demon.
Julia: Yes.
Kristin: Especially on the heels of Wonder Woman , you know?
Julia: Yeah.
Jenny: Yep. Before we started taping, Julia was telling us that she saw Wonder Woman with her daughter. Did you feel when you took your daughter to see Wonder Woman like you were bringing her into something, you know what I mean?
Julia: Yes, yes. And I enjoyed that experience so much and I, multiple times, would look over at her to see what her reaction was and what she was getting. And I know for a nine-year-old, she’s getting different things than what I’m getting. But I teared up multiple times watching that movie–
Jenny: Yes.
Julia: Just because I was so happy to see a strong, solid female character. And of course, I know that there’s a female director and just the beauty with which that all came together, I– it was a wonderful experience to take her to that. And I hope to do it again and again and again.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Yes. That this probably will be the first of many woman-centering, woman-directed superhero films. Right?
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: It could make sense.
Kristin: Right and it may not have been, but I think what is on our side is not only is it brilliant, but it also was a box office smash. And that’s going to help I think get more for all of us.
Julia: Right. Well money is the bottom line in Hollywood [They laugh]
Jenny: Right?
Julia: It’s the universal language.
Kristin: Well, before we wrap up, it would be cool to talk a little bit about how your character then continues. Because we’ve all just seen you go from– we’ve met you as Chanterelle.
Julia: Mmhmm.
Kristin: In a very interesting set of circumstances [Kristin and Jenny laugh]. Then we’ve seen you grow and change and reappear as Lily and we leave you as Anne. And then we go over to Angel. 
Julia: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And there you are again. So how did that– was that another couple of years passed?
Julia: Yes and as a matter of fact, they asked me to come in and read some of the scenes because they said "Alright, she’s undergone a pretty big arc by this point and we only know you as the character who’s very lost and doesn’t know what she’s looking for…"
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Right.
Julia: And she can’t take care of herself and then here she is and she’s done a 180-degree turn with her life. And we want to make sure that you can project authority and confidence and that you’re someone that these teenage kids would listen to.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Julia: So I went in and I read some of the scenes and they went "Okay, yeah. We’re good." So, you know. But that seed was planted. That seed was planted by Buffy, you know? And at the last scene, Anne says, or Lily, "I’m not very good at taking care of myself. First things first." And Buffy says "It gets easier." And you know, "Can I be Anne?" And then she took that role model, Buffy is that role model. And also I think when she’s in that alternate universe hell, she sees that she’s not alone. There are all of these other kids and Buffy gives her the responsibility of, you know, "You take these kids and you go down this way." And Lily looks at her like "I don’t know if I can do that." And Buffy’s like "Just go." And she does it and then she has some success with that. Enough that it gives her the confidence to push Ken off the edge [Jenny laughs].
Kristin: Right.
Julia: And I think from that, she realizes, you know, that whole experience. "Yes, I’m capable of more than I thought I was and also I’m not alone. There are other kids out there experiencing the same thing as me."
Kristin: Right, which is huge. You know sometimes, I think for many of us, that’s bigger than finding the strength itself is seeing other people struggle too.
Julia: Yeah.
Kristin: And what I was going to say too is I think that Anne, Lily, is a character that means so much to so many people who watch the series. Because we have Buffy, obviously. We have Buffy, this very strong character, and there are tons of strong female characters but I think Lily occupies the space where we meet a character who really is struggling when we first meet her to take ownership of herself, and so that arc is very specific in the series, I think, for people who are feeling like– When Buffy starts, she’s sort of a snotty Los Angeles like doesn’t care– so she has some form of confidence in herself already, and even Willow, these characters, they have a little bit more of a semblance of self. And I think watching the series for a lot of people, especially girls and women, seeing in your character Lily that like "I don’t know if I can do this" to then you pushing him off the thing–
Julia: Right.
Kristin: Is just a very important arc for so many of us to see.
Julia: Yeah, yeah. And I love that she came back and helped and you know, made a role for herself in the world.
Jenny: Yeah and used, drew on all of that experience being lost to help other people who are lost.
Kristin: Yes, the best path right? Is using the experiences you have to help others. Do you have people reach out to you? Is Buffy a part of your life now where people recognize you or sort of reach out to you to talk about Buffy or... is it still current?
Julia: Occasionally. I think twice in the past year I’ve been out at various places and someone, I think I was at Michael’s Arts and Crafts.
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: The best place in America.
Julia: Of course [they all laugh]. And the man at the checkout counter looked up and asked me if I had been on Buffy and Angel .
Jenny: That’s awesome.
Kristin: Nice. You mentioned your daughter is a fan of fantasy, are you a fan as well? Is that a genre that you are interested in still?
Julia: Yeah, definitely. We’re reading The Hobbit together right now.
Jenny: Oh, that’s so nice!
Kristin: That’s so rad. And you’re producing now.
Julia: Yes.
Kristin: So you transitioned from doing more primarily acting to more primarily producing?
Julia: Yes.
Kristin: What led you on that path?
Julia: My husband. He was doing production and post-production and then we sort of were thinking that intellectual property is where it’s at. So we started pitching original ideas and concepts around and one of them landed at HGTV.
Kristin: Nice.
Julia: And they went with it and now I have two projects that are in development with them right now.
Kristin: Oh that’s amazing.
Jenny: That’s so exciting.
Julia: Hoping for some good news in about two or three weeks.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Great. Does that mean that you have ideas about our home? How we can improve it? [Julia laughs]
Julia: No, I find the talent. [They all laugh] I don’t profess to be the talent in that way.
Kristin: That’s good, that’s good. ‘Cause I don’t want any knowing eyes in here. [They all laugh]
Jenny: Well thank you so, so much for taking the time to talk to us today about this. It is a delight to meet you and to have had this conversation.
Kristin: Truly. I mean this is our start to Season 3, and what an incredible thing to have you as part of the episode. So special.
Julia: My absolute pleasure. It’s been really fun.
Kristin: Well let us know when your daughter starts watching the series [Jenny laughs] and if down the line she has any thoughts and she wants to chime in Seasons 4 or 5, whatever, we’ll have her on the show [laughs].
Julia: She has a lot of thoughts and a lot of opinions.
Kristin: Great, perfect!
Julia: You can count on that [They all laugh].
Kristin: Our door is always open. What is your daughter’s name?
Julia: Siena.
Kristin: Siena. Our door is always open to Siena.
Julia: Alright.
Kristin: And her Buffy thoughts. [They all laugh]
NOTES: [END INTERVIEW]
Jenny: What a lovely person.
Kristin: Oh my gosh, so lovely. Because let me tell you what, when I think about the character of Lily, I think a lovely person. Character of Anne. Whatever. [Jenny laughs] Lovely, sweet person. Julia is just the nicest– Ugh! We had the most wonderful time with her. Thank you so much again for being a part of the show and helping us kick off the start of Season 3.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Just so wonderful in all the ways. So. Let’s talk about the blood bank, shall we?
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: [laughs] Because this lady, this lady at the blood bankJenny: She’s got no poker face!
Kristin: She has no p  oker face. They’re like "Where’s Ricky" and she’s like "Ricky’s not here" and then they like, leave, and the camera pans to the lady at the blood bank, and she legit looks into the camera, she’s like "Dun dun duuuunnn."
Jenny: It’s really good.
Kristin: It’s so fucking funny.
Jenny: We haven’t seen anything like that since "a werewolf in love."
Kristin: Yes! Exactly! Exactly. And then of course, you know, Buffy and Lily go– split ways to search for Ricky, and Buffy comes upon Ricky...what chance, by the way, a great chance that she stumbles upon him-
Jenny: Well, she actually stumbles upon an old man, in fact the same old man who pushed through them, who she pushed out of the way of traffic, earlier.
Kristin: Wait, what?
Jenny: Ricky is an old man, she comes across an old man who has drank
DranoKristin: The man that she pushed out of the car, out of the way of the carJenny: is the same guy.
Kristin: is Ricky?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: I didn’t even know it!
Jenny: Oh my god. And he’s totally, he was totally trying to kill himself!
Kristin: We’ve watched the episode–
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: 712 times, I swear to you, I didn’t notice.
Jenny: Kristin!
Kristin: So, listen, there’s at least 1 person listening to this that also didn’t notice, and I am here for you, to make you f eel seen!
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: So, right, Ricky tried to kill himself the first time by stepping in front of a car, he didn’t succeed, so he drank some Drano.
Jenny: Right, and Buffy of course knows it’s him because of the tattoo, which she had seen earlier that day–
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: At the diner. Or, the day before?
Kristin: I’m confused about why they’re even re-disposed into the streets. Like, why don’t they just let them die in the dungeon?
Jenny: Maybe there they have limited real estate. Maybe human bodies don’t decompose the same way–
Kristin: down there...
Jenny: in that atmosphere that they do in Earth’s atmosphere. Human Earth’s atmosphere.
Kristin: Oh, yeah, so...anyway!
Jenny: ‘Lot to think about, a lot to talk about.
Kristin: Buffy goes and tells Lily that–
Jenny: who’s already inside of Buffy’s apartment.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Interesting.
Kristin: Honestly, this is what I think happened. Buffy was like "We’ll split up," and Lily was like "Right, so I’ll go with you," ‘cause that’s what really happened–
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: And then Buffy was like "Nonono, we’re gonna split up," and Lily was like "I can’t do that," and Buffy was like "You stay here" y’know, "just sit down, and I will deal with this." So Buffy comes back to tell Lily that Ricky is dead, and she does it kind of shittily–
Jenny: Oh. My. God.
Kristin: Because she’s got her own shit going on.
Jenny: Right, well, she does it shittily because she’s got her own stuff going on, but she also does it in, like, a TV way, where she’s like "Ricky’s dead," and Chanterelle’s like "Nooo!" and–
Kristin: Chanterelle ??
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: She’s Lily now.
Jenny: Lily, sorry! Lily is like "Noo!" and Buffy’s like "There’s something else, he’s, like, 80," and Lily very reasonably is like "That’s not Ricky, dumbass." [laughs]
Kristin: [laughs]
Jenny: And Buffy’s like "You’re just gonna have to trust me, and also, deal with it, your boyfriend’s dead."
Kristin: Right? Literally.
Jenny: Which is what Buffy is saying to herself, on the inside.
Kristin: Right, of course. "These things happen all the time" , she says to Lily.
Jenny: [in a high-pitched voice] Buffy, I don’t know if it’s really an "all the time" thing for most people?
Kristin: And Lily, who is like "What the fuck is happening right now?"–
Jenny: Reasonably.
Kristin: Yeah, reasonably, turns the tables on Buffy and is like "You know what? Maybe you fuckin’ did this! Every time I’m fuckin’ with you, there’s bad shit happening."
Jenny: Great point.
Kristin: "So maybe you brought the monster!" Y’know, not a bad theory! Not correct, but I, you know, I understand the reasoning!
Jenny: Totally.
Kristin: So Lily leaves, ‘cause they’ve gotten in a fight, runs into Ken. Everybody’s always runnin’ into fuckin’ Ken, man.
Jenny: [aggravated] Keeeen !
Kristin: Ricky’s-now I love Ken, for a lot of reasons. One of the reasons I love Ken so much, is that he does not lie . R  ight? "Ricky’s with us now," he says. Not a lie. That’s the truth.
Jenny: Uh-huh, uh-huh.
Kristin: "Ricky is no more dead than I am!" says Ken.
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: [laughs] Not a lie. Also totally the truth. So, Lily, of course, as we talked about in the interview with Julia, you know, is really lost, and is very much following whatever comes her way at this point, so she goes with Ken. And meanwhile, Buffy is like "Fuck this noise, I’m heading to the fucking blood bank." And this is great.
Jenny: So good.
Kristin: This is like, when she gets her spark back, because you can tell, when we get to the fight scene later on, Buffy is like, "I am so fuckin’ ready to fight," like she’s pretendin’ she wants to disappear and not be the slayer, but lemme tell you what–
Jenny: Right. You can’t escape who you– you know who it reminds me of, actually?
Kristin: Who?
Jenny: Our cat, who has been so sick, for the last 8 days, she’s just been like sleeping like 90% of the day, and then she’ll get up and like, half-heartedly chase a toy mouse around for like 5 seconds, and then be like "I love sleep, bye"
Kristin: [laughing]
Jenny: Today is the first day she’s been back in full form, and she’s been using all of the energy reserves that were not utilized for the last 8 days.
Kristin: Uh-huh!
Jenny: She’s been doing cartwheels, bouncing off the walls–
Kristin: Eating everything!
Jenny: Trying to eat everything!
Kristin: Literally! Pens, phones, paper, dust, everything.
Jenny: [laughing] She’s a mess.
Kristin: So yeah, this is totally, great comparison.
Jenny: Right. Exactly.
Kristin: This is Buffy, Buffy is fuckin’ pissed. She fuckin’ breaks in, the woman, fuckin’ nutty woman, comes in and she’s like "What are you doing?" and Buffy’s like "Breaking into your office and going through your personal files," and she’s like "You shouldn’t do that," and Buffy rips the phone out of the fuckin’ wall. It’s great! It’s great. And then we find out from crazy blood bank lady that she gives him, she gives Ken, quote, "the names of the healthy ones." The fuck?
Jenny: It’s pretty creepy.
Kristin: It’s pretty fucking weird, right? Like, ‘cause we don’t really get the story.
Jenny: No, no.
Kristin: What are they building down there?? We don’t know. What are they doing down there?
Jenny: Unknown.
Kristin: We never know!
Jenny: Unknown to this day.
Kristin: Unknown to this day! I bet you if you asked that guy from Game of Thrones, he would fuckin’ have the answer–
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: But we didn’t get it in this episode. Maybe that’ll be in the finale. We’ll find out about the dragons, we’ll find out about so many things, we’re gonna find out what the hell Ken was doing down there, and if Ken made it, ‘cause, I mean, Ken probably is still alive, you know?
Jenny: [hesitantly]Uuuuhhh, suuuuure?
Kristin: Oh right, no, yeah, no, he’s not alive, you’re right, I forgot about Gandhi. I was like "He only got his legs staked!" Okay, Anyway. We go back to the graveyard.
Jenny: Oh yeah.
Kristin: Cordy and Xander are fighting.
Jenny: They are.
Kristin: They’re fighting, and what happens when they’re fighting?
Jenny: [sighs] Passion? Oh, you mean-I thought you meant generally, what happens when they fight?
Kristin: Passion...
Jenny: What happens when they’re fighting is that– [imitates Angel] "Passion.." [laughs] When they fight, Willow is listening to them and is bored and annoyed and a vampire, of course, the v  ampire, Andy or Eddie, sneaks up on her and attacks her!
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: Then Oz jumps in, and is tossed to the side.
Kristin: Right, and then they...they defeat this vampire, they defeat this vampire by Cordelia pushing vampire into the stake, which is a beautiful moment.
Jenny: And they fall, they fall like a sandwich cookie, and then the vampire dustifies, and then Cordelia falls on Xander and then we hear what I guess is–
Kristin: It’s their theme song!
Jenny: It’s their theme!
Kristin: It is!
Jenny: That is their romantic theme! Just a really dramatic orchestral swell–
Kristin: [laughing]
Jenny: and they kiss, just like in What’s My Line, part 2
Kristin: Yeah, it’s great!
Jenny: What a delight.
Kristin: Meanwhile, Buffy, just showing us that she has not learned undercover skills between seasons at all, is at the door to Ken’s house "Hey, what’s with all the sin? I’m bad with the sex," she says.
Jenny: Right [laughing]
Kristin: And then she sort of becomes self-aware of her own inability to be undercover, and kicks everybody’s ass to get in the door. We see the goo.
Jenny: Right right right, Lily’s preparing for–
Kristin: the goo, the goo pool, the gool, if you will.
Jenny: I won’t.
Kristin: Okay.
Jenny: Preparing for baptism. And Buffy busts in, all like "How do you make them old, Ken?"
Kristin: [laughing] You’re right. And one more thing I wanna say before we go down into the bellows of Hell, is in the scene with Xander and Cordelia, I just wanna shout out the callout to Inca Mummy Girl.
Jenny: Oh yeah!
Kristin: It’s a great moment, it’s not every episode when we get to hear other episodes shouted out, and Cordelia makes a comment to Xander about his love affair with [singing] Oooh, Inca Mummy Girl.
Jenny: Nice. Very nicely done.
Kristin: So, thank you for that. Now we go downstairs, in the dungeon.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Now, I have questions here.
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: First of all–
Jenny: What are they doing?
Kristin: What are they doing, but second of all, if they’re disposing of the old people upstairs, why is there just a casual skeleton–
Jenny: [laughing]
Kristin: – behind Lily, that nobody cares about at all? There’s just a full skeleton.
Jenny: And isn’t it like on a cot?
Kristin: Yes! It’s just laying like it fell asleep there, it died there, and it decomposed there, and there’s a skeleton there now.
Jenny: Hmmmm.
Kristin: Again, with the siren showing downtown, they were like literally "Where’d you get that werewolf costume? Could you pick up a skeleton suit?" You know? "Just put that on the bed."
Jenny: Is Halloweentown on Postmates?
Kristin: Make it look Halloween-y, yeah! But a logistical question as well. Time moves quickly down here, right?
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Time moves, they said, 100 years equals 1 day. Do you know what that is, Jenny?
Jenny: [gasps] Hellmath! It’s, it’s–
Kristin: It is, yes, it is Hellmath.
NOTES: [Hellmath jingle plays]
Kristin: 100 years equals 1 day: Hellmath! And what I wanna know is, if 100 years equals 1 day, then wouldn’t a half an hour, or however the fuck long they’re down there, equal, like a couple of years? I haven’t done the–
Jenny: Nonono, it’s a hundred years down there is one earth day
Kristin: Upstairs
Jenny: Right
Kristin: So, doesn’t that like–
Jenny: It’s like a blink.
Kristin: So–
Jenny: An earth blink.
Kristin: But if a day is passing upstairs while 100 years is passing downstairs...
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Then, half an hour has passed upstairs, which should mean that a couple of–
Jenny: No, why has half an hour passed upstairs? Half an hour has passed down stairs.
Kristin: Oohhhh...
Jenny: [both laughing] You gotta take into account the upstairs and the downstairs differentials when you’re doing Hellmath.
Kristin: Wow, this has been great. Okay. Thank you for helping me. ‘Cause I was like "Buffy’s 19! She’s not 17, she’s not 18, she’s at least 19! She might even be 20!"
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: Okay. Great. Great great great. Um, skeleton heads? Why do I have that written down? I don’t know. Skeleton heads.
Jenny: Because the guards are–
Kristin: Oh!
Jenny: – sort of like skeleton head-esque with like sort of like flesh masks?
Kristin: I love them!
Jenny: Great, great character design.
Kristin: Like, buttoned-up faces?
Jenny: Love it.
Kristin: So fuckin’ cool. Then I have my notes about the many-faced gods
Jenny: [laughing] Good!
Kristin: And Buffy, of course, this is really, you know, the moment in this episode where she’s like "All right, you know what? Fuck this shit. I’m Buffy the Vampire Slayer, and you are?" she says.
Jenny: [cheering] Yeeeeesss!
Kristin: And she tells Lily she can handle this, Lily has this great moment, which we didn’t talk about with Julia, and I just want to say, for one second, where she’s like "I’m sorry about that thing I did before," and Buffy’s like "Not now, Lily!" and Lily’s like "But just in case we die!"
Jenny: Very practical–
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: – and responsible, I love it.
Kristin: And then we get this great fight scene.
Jenny: Yay! One slayer, a bajillion Skeletors, who will emerge the victor?
Kristin: The slayer! The slayer will!
Jenny: The slayer! There’s [laughing] oh my god once she gets, I’m sorry, once she gets hold of that rounded axe thing and she, I believe she slices someone and then she like, throws it up in the air or something, or maybe that’s how gets it–
Kristin: No, she catches it!
Jenny: She puts her hand up so long! [both laughing]
Kristin: For 6 hours!
Jenny: She doesn’t have that kinda time, she’s in the middle of a fight!
Kristin: But it’s like a great comedic moment if you imagine what’s happening, that everyone’s just watching, you know–
Jenny: All of the Skeletors are like "It would be rude to interrupt."
Kristin: And, right, so she’s fighting, she’s fighting, Ken is flipping out "You’re not supposed to fight, people aren’t supposed to fight, that’s not how this works." Now, he says, I haven’t told you, Jenny, but this is my Sexual Tension Award moment. He says to Buffy, "You’ve got guts. I think I’d like to slice you open and play with them."
Jenny: Gross.
Kristin: I would like to award the Sexual Tension Award to Ken and Buffy.
Jenny: That’s– It’s too disgusting for me to argue.
Kristin: I’m sorry! It’s just, not because of him wanting to slice her guts open or whatever, but because of the way he looks at her before he says it! He’s like "I’m kinda into this girl!" You know, he is, you just, you go back, you watch, he’s just like "Hmm."
Jenny: Once he pulls off his face and also his sort of like, youth pastor uhhh, attitude?
Kristin: Yeah
Jenny: He has this sort of like, he just like gets really fierce? Y’know?
Kristin: Yes. He does, he does!
Jenny: And I feel like, yeah, it really feeds into what you’re talking about.
Kristin: Right? He’s just like, "I like this girl. She can fight! I’m gonna kill her, but man, do I like her!"
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: So, in an episode where I felt there wasn’t much sexual tension, I’m placing it here.
Jenny: So, he brings the fight to a screeching halt by holding a knife to Lily’s throat, and he’s like "This is the price of rebellion. One of you fights back, you all die." Which, frankly, I feel like would deplete his work force in a way that would actually be very bad for him to do, so I think he’s partially bluffing.
Kristin: Right. Probably the case when anyone says that.
Jenny: Right right right. One of you fights and you all die.
Kristin: Yeah, probably they don’t actually want that.
Jenny: Then he foolishly lets her go to continue his monologue.
Kristin: Well, because he has this belief, he really believes that young people are so lost, that they don’t have the capacity to fight back, which is why Buffy is such an anomaly.
Jenny: Right right right. And then what happens?
Kristin: And then! Ohhhh, Lily pushes him right off the fuckin’ edge–
Jenny: Hell yes!
Kristin: – in this moment that’s so, it’s like almost anticlimactic, you know? In a brilliant way? In just like, this like, you know what? ‘Fuck this guy’.
Jenny: Yeah yeah yeah yeah.
Kristin: Pushes him down.
Jenny: Anticlimactic from like, what we’re accustomed to seeing in this show and shows like it, but really climactic for Lily, who is stepping up, and being really assertive, and just sort of taking the bull by the horns, and pushing the bull off of a ledge.
Kristin: Yeah, fuck yeah Lily. And then you know, of course, Buffy picks up the gate, lets everybody out, drops the gate on Ken’s legs, channels Gandhi–
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: – in a moment of destroying Ken, which was a funny, weird little thing.
Jenny: Okay, then they escape, and the tar pit seals itself up, leaving hundreds o  f humans–
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: downstairs–
Kristin: Jenny! Do you think that’s what’s underneath the Tar Pits? It’s in Los Angeles! It’s here.
Jenny: Wow. Wow.
Kristin: The clues point in one direction, and that direction is, perhaps–
Jenny: The La Brea Tar Pits?
Kristin: Yeah, The La Brea Tar Pits.
Jenny: Okay, we’ll have to do a special field trip episode.
Kristin: Where Kristin goes underneath the La Brea Tar Pits.
Jenny: [laughs] Please don’t.
Kristin: Okay, so then we have this ending scene, which we talked about with Julia as well. But, you know, this is a moment where Buffy is like, literally, but also figuratively handing over her strength to Lily.
Jenny: Right, right right right.
Kristin: And by the way, we didn’t mention, Buffy’s middle name is Anne.
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: So that’s a thing.
Jenny: Oh yeah.
Kristin: So Lily becomes Anne, Anne restores to Buffy, or Buffy re– whatever, you know what I’m talking about, everybody gets a new name.
Jenny: [laughing] Well said.
Kristin: And Buffy goes home. And before she gets there [laughing] Joyce is–
Jenny: [struggling to contain glee] Just...doing...some...dishwasher maintenance!
Kristin: Oh, it was a really great moment for everybody in this room.
Jenny: Joyce. Summers.
Kristin: Just doin’ a little handiwork around the house!
Jenny: Fixing the dishwasher!
Kristin: [bursting with giddiness] Probably is about to hang out with Pat, just kidding, we’re not there yet! [gasps]. Okay, she’s fixing the dishwasher, and then the doorbell rings? Or there’s a knock at the door.
Jenny: I believe there’s a knock.
Kristin: There’s a knock at the door. And it’s Buffy. And that’s how–
Jenny: And their faces.
Kristin: Yes. And that’s how we–
Jenny: And then they hug.
Kristin: – end this episode. She’s home. And obviously there’s a lot to unpack, now that she’s home, but the biggest thing is that she’s home.
Jenny: Hell. Yes.
Kristin: Wow, okay, so this was a fantastic episode.
Jenny: Yes it was!
Kristin: And we are almost ready to wrap up this here episode of the podcast, but before we do, we promised many of you that we would talk about the situation that was uncovered between Joss and Joss’s ex-wife. Now, I wanna say that this is something we normally wouldn’t talk about, if it was, you know, came to light that Joss had had affairs during his marriage or what have you, it’s really not the kind of thing we traffic in.
Jenny: Right, it’s like a hard line to discern what is and is not our business, but in this case–
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: A party to this information decided to make it the world’s business, so what do we do with it?
Kristin: Exactly. And I think the reason that we’re deciding to talk about it is because of that, because somebody who is involved in it made it our business and so now it is in our orbit and we have to digest it, and too, it’s not just about an affair. If it was just about an affair, we still wouldn’t be talking about it. But there are elements to this, Kai, Joss’s ex-wife shared some letters that were written towards the end of the marriage, or as the marriage was ending, or after the marriage had ended. And there were things in those letters that were very troublesome. First of all, one troublesome layer of this is the power dynamics that exist, between a director, especially a very powerful director, and that director’s actors, that director’s fans, and so on and so forth.
Jenny: Mmhmm
Kristin: So that’s something. And then there’s another layer of this, which is that, in those letters, there was an element of evolutionary reasoning, of like, "Well, I am a man, and so it is in my instincts to sort of follow these behaviors." Now, I think that Jenny and I both, having our own relationship, and certainly understanding that there are a lot of intimate things that happen in relationships that we cannot possibly understand from just excerpts from letters, we know that there’s a lot here, but this exists, and this is big, because Joss Whedon is positioned as a very powerful feminist director.
Jenny: Mmhmm
Kristin: Feminist writer, feminist creator, and we are doing a very feminist show about one of his creations.
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: So, what do we do with this? I think that first, it’s important to say that neither Jenny or myself have ever really held up Joss singularly as the only reason that Buffy the Vampire Slayer exists, and also, as a [ironically] perfect feminist –
Jenny: Uh-uh.
Kristin: – this is certainly not the first time that something has come to light that sort of has said "Hmmm."
Jenny: "Interesting."
Kristin: "This might not be exactly what it says it is" you know, there may be other things at work here, and you know, I think that, for us, learning this information was very disappointing, of course, very upsetting, very concerning on so many levels, but it also was not like "Oh no, now the entire canon of work that Joss is connected to is dead to us, or isn’t valuable to us."
Jenny: Right, it’s like this creator vs creation thing. Does somebody’s disappointments as a human being take away the power that millions of people have gained from watching this incredible show, which is a product of the hard work and sweat of–
Kristin: oh, thousands!
Jenny: – so many people! So many people worked to make this show what it is.
Kristin: Yeah, we see you, Marti Noxon! You know what I’m saying?? And so many others, I mean, [laughing] Marti Noxon comes to mind, because we love Marti Noxon, but, so many people, the actors, the crew, the writers, there are so many people who put energies into this, this p  articular show, but all of the creations that Joss has a hand in, that have shaped it well past what he himself would have done. And so I think that, you know, this has come up so many times in our life, right? The Cosby Show is something that I think immediately came to my mind, now this is very different, obviously, it’s a very, very different set of circumstances, but, you know, I hold up The Cosby Show as a part of the 1980s canon of television that did things that were not being done, and that brought people into my living room that I would have never learned about, Dizzy Gillespie, Lena Horne, you know, that show worked actively to bring black artists and creators into–
Jenny: the homes of millions of people!
Kristin: – into the living rooms of millions of people, and that’s important, and so I look at this through a similar lens, where Jenny and I exist in this world, we share space with all of you, we’ve stood in Union Hall in New York, we’ve stood at Nerd Melt in Los Angeles, we’ve stood in an auditorium in Wisconsin during A Camp with so many of you, knowing that this means something to us, and this means something to you, and we are certainly not near to the first people to sit within a community of people united by Buffy the Vampire Slayer or by other creations that Joss has had a hand in, and those communities can’t just disappear. The power that we have together doesn’t just disappear because someone has really crossed boundaries and really done some pretty awful things. That doesn’t go away. I think that’s the most important thing to both of us to say. We’re not going anywhere. We love B– I love Buffy as much as I did before any of this came to light.
Jenny: Same.
Kristin: But we also, you know, we talk about the patriarchy a lot, we talk about feminism a lot, we talk about, queer issues a lot, and so I think that it is important that we also just touch– somebody sent us an email, and a few of you sent us similar notes to this one, but I’m just gonna read a small section, Anna P. sent us an email that said, "You know, I read an interview with Nicholas Brendan where he said that Xander was Joss, he was the character that Joss saw himself as, and was his way of writing himself into the story. If we look at Xander, knowing what we know now about Joss, it makes his problematic aspects much worse. His sense of whining entitlement for Buffy’s affections, his casual asking for lap dances, his other patriarchal comments. Xander is where Joss let his ugly side out. Those are my thoughts, thanks for what you do. Your sister in patriarchal smashing, Anna." So, I bring this up because this is interesting, ‘cause this is something that throughout seasons 1 & 2, we have tried to unpack. And not connected to Joss, and, certainly, don’t worry that we’re gonna bring up Joss Whedon every time we talk about Xander now; we’re not. But I think that there is something here. There is something here, and this is something I’ve been trying to get to the heart of, and I think you have, too, Jenny–
Jenny: Mmmm
Kristin: – which is that we, at no point have we ever attempted to say, like, "Hey, Xander is a bad, evil person, Xander doesn’t do anything right, Xander doesn’t do anything good." But we’ve been trying to look at some of the things that Xander does and say "This is problematic," and we really feel like it’s important to call out the fact that this is problematic, because if not called out, what happens?
Jenny: Mmhm.
Kristin: And I think, if not called out, things like we have seen unfold with Joss and his ex-wife Kai is exactly the kind of thing that happens. Right?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And that’s why we will continue, on this show, to take a hard look at some of these patriarchal moments, some of these moments that net all of us. And we’ve said that about Xander, you know, that it’s not just like Xander is the proponent of evil, he’s also caught in this net.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: And so I think it’s really important that we look at that, that we look at Xander, that we look at the other patriarchal aspects of the show, because they are here, and they’re created by Joss and others, we all sit inside of this, you know, patriarchal pot, if you will.
Jenny: I will! Well, I’d rather not, but since I have no choice in the matter...
Kristin: And, you know, teaspoon by teaspoon, Jenny and I–
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: – are trying to empty the pot of patriarchal...water? Is that where my metaphor was going?
Jenny: That. Was. Great. So, you keep listening, we’ll keep unpacking.
Kristin: Yes. And we are open to hearing your thoughts as well, you know, you had a very active conversation on Facebook about this, and I think it is worth discussion, I do really think that it’s worth discussion, and it is disappointing, and , again, I don’t think that it affects our viewing of the show, but it might affect yours, and that’s okay. So, we are stickin’ with it, we are super, super excited about the rest of these seasons ahead of us–
Jenny: We are!
Kristin: And again, you know, send us an email if you have more thoughts, bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com and we’re about to go into season 3, episode 2, which is a live episode and we’re very excited!
Jenny: Yeah! But until then, I’m Jenny Owen Youngs, and when I’m not watching Buffy, I am writing songs! You can learn more about me and hear some of those songs at jennyowenyoungs.com/buffering and you can give me a shout on Twitter @jennyowenyoungs.
Kristin: And I am Kristin Russo, you can find out all about me over on Twitter, or on Instagram or on my website all found @kristinnoeline, that’s k-r-i-s-t-i-n-n-o-e-l-i-n-e, in case any of you have forgotten how to spell that over the long break.
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: You can also find out more about my work with LGBT young people and their families over at everyoneisgay.com and mykidisgay.com
Jenny: We’re on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram @buferingcast, and you can always drop us an email at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com
Kristin: Yes, and you can support us in many, many ways, I will give you a
few right now: the first way, and I think probably one of the more important ways, is over on our Patreon page. Patreon is a place where you can support us and get fun things in exchange. If you give anything to us at all, you become part of the secret Facebook group, which is a very fun place to chat with other Buffyphiles [laughing], and at the $5 level, you get the song every week, so you don’t have to wait till the end of the season, which, this year, I don’t even know that we’re done until April or something! So you can get the songs week by week as they come out at the $5 level, and you can read about all of the other perks over at Patreon. You can find that link over on our website, bufferingthevampireslayer.com, just click on "Patreon," and you’ll find out all of the fun details. You can also buy our shirts or our pins, or anything else that you’d like that has anything to do with the patriarchy and where it intersects with Buffy the Vampire Slayer, just click on "Shop" over on our website and find all of those goodies. I want to just send some reminders your way before we leave, is that alright, Jenny?
Jenny: Yeeees.
Kristin: I want to send a reminder out to you that we are doing a September fundraiser, we have 5 lyric sheets handwritten by Jenny and myself that will be sent out to you if you would like to purchase them and 100% of those proceeds are going to help the relief in Houston, Texas, after Hurricane Harvey. Also, a reminder that this Sunday at 2pm pacific that we will be doing a party to celebrate the 1 million download mark that we hit at the end of season 2, we’re very excited. You can find out all of those details on our website, and something we didn’t mention at the start of the show is that we went to Flame Con, and we had a blast, and up on our Patreon page, and this is for everyone, you don’t have to be a patron of ours, you can just go on over to the page to check it out, you can see some photos that the incredible Heather Hogan took of us while we were over in New York celebrating with all of the other wonderful queer creators at Flame Con and also, Heather Hogan, while she was there at Flame Con, was following us around, writing a beautiful, incredibly powerful, just fucking perfect profile on Jenny and myself for autostraddle.com. That link is over there on our Patreon page.
Jenny: It’s like, a bajillion word essay of just, the nicest thing anyone’s ever said about me, followed by the nicest thing anyone’s ever said about Kristin, and then that just sort of repeats.
Kristin: Yeah, it’s really...Heather Hogan is just amazing, I mean, Heather Hogan is like one of my favorite writers in the entire universe, so getting the chance to have her write about our life and our work on this very podcast was very special. There’s a lot of fun information in there, everything from like what our week looks like in terms of production, to like, Jenny and her feelings about capes.
Jenny: Yes! So I highly suggest that you go on over there and check it out if you haven’t already, and I think that’s all we have!
Jenny: Gee. Whiz. First episode down, thanks for joining us, till next time!
Both: [howling] Awooooooooooooooooo! [Jenny performing "Anne" off the album "Songs from Season Three" by Buffering the Vampire Slayer] One-room livin' downtown L.A. Slingin’ pie cause I ran away In a waitress uniform with a name-tag lie There’s people all around me but I don’t look ‘em in the eye Yeah yeah yeah Had too many of these bad dreams Dread unshakeable memories And it seems like I won’t find the peace I need Cause even when I’m hiding out the lost ones come to me Yeah yeah yeah Yeah, I came here just to be alone But I wonder what it’s like at home Yeah, the sirens keep me up all night Wherever I go, my fight’s still there to fight So I followed them underground Found myself on the long way down And I got my fight back cuttin' demons up Yeah, it still hurts but it don’t tear me up now quite as much Yeah yeah yeah Yeah, I came here just to be alone But I’m happy to be going home Yeah, the sirens kept me up all night Wherever I go, my fight’s still there to fight You can’t be no one if someone will fight for you [x4]