Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 2.11: Ted
Jenny: Hey everybody! Before we get started, just a quick reminder. I, Jenny, am playing a few shows in the northeast next week. From April 6th through the 9th I’ll be playing in North Hampton, Boston, Brooklyn and Philadelphia. So, you can find tickets and information at jennowenyoungs.com and I hope to see some of you out there in the world.
Kristin: Yeah and before we jump into the episode, we also wanted to let you know our t-shirts, we are rich in t-shirts these days, we’ve got three. Our own Buffering t-shirt, designed by Kristine Thuna, "Smash The Demon Lizard Patriarchy," designed by Isabella Rotman and "Just Keep Fighting," designed by Allison Weiss. We have all three shirts, we think, in stock.
Jenny: We’ve been selling through them like crazy.
Kristin: Like wildfire. Like nothing we have ever seen. So, thank you for loving them. We love them too, and you can find those, if you haven’t gotten yours already, over at bufferingthevampireslayer.com, just click on Shop. We also have some enamel pins and it’s just a good time over there, you know what I mean?
Jenny: Hell yeah!
NOTES: [chime]
Jenny: For today’s episode, we got to talk with our friend Shannon Woodward, an actor who’s most recently appeared in HBO’s Westworld. Spoilers for Westworld, it’s full of robots! Spoilers for "Ted," he’s a robot! Shannon plays Elsa Hughes on Westworld, a character who programs robots, so we were thrilled to get to talk to her about an earlier and more rudimentary prototype named Ted.
NOTES: [Theme song]
Jenny: Hello and welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast in where we are watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer one at a time. I am Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: And I am Kristin Russo and this week are discussing Season 2, Episode 11, "Ted." Stay tuned at the end of this podcast every week for an original song written by us, recapping the Buffy episode we are discussing.
Jenny: "Ted" was written by David Greenwalt and Joss Whedon and directed by Bruce Seth Green. It originally aired on December 8th 1997.
Kristin: So close to my 17th birthday. Buffy’s – this is the one where Buffy’s mother brings – everybody knows what this one was, let’s be real. [Jenny laughs] Everybody knows but I’m still gonna give you the summary. Buffy’s mother brings home Ted. Also why don’t we name people? Joyce ... brings home Ted, her new boyfriend who is… not what he seems. That’s the whole summary. [Laughs]
Jenny: Uhh, accurate!
Kristin: Accurate, yeah.
Jenny: Accurate. Ted is not what he seems, Ted is a robot and we have a very special expert guest.
Kristin: Mhm.
Jenny: A key witness in the investigation of this episode. [Kristin laughs] Some of you, many of you, hopefully all of you will be familiar with her work portraying Elsie Hughes on Westworld, down in Behavioural, it’s Shannon Woodward!
Kristin: [Laughs]
Shannon: Hey guys! Hey guys!
Jenny: Welcome, Shannon!
Kristin: Hello, Shannon!
Shannon: I heard you guys needed a little help with a problematic robot, is that right?
Jenny: Yeah, we went to Narrative and they were useless.
Shannon: They’re completely useless. [Kristin laughs] No. I, well Jenny and I were talking a couple of months ago and she knows I’m a big Buffy fan. God, when you said, by the way, what year this was in. 1997! This is crazy. I was thirteen years old.
Jenny: Hell yeah.
Kristin: Wow!
Shannon: I know this, like, I know this episode so well and I don’t want to offend anyone but it is maybe my – one of my least favorite episodes of this show.
Jenny: Fair.
Shannon: But I always called it the Westworld episode.
Jenny: That’s –
Shannon: Because I knew the movie, not because I was like [high pitched voice] "One day I’m gonna be on a TV show!" [laughter]
Kristin: But how amazingly cool is that!? That, like, you were thirteen and you were like, this is the Westworld episode and now you’re on a podcast about that episode because you’re on Westworld.
Shannon: I know, it’s all really come full circle. I mean if, you know, talking about Ted was my ultimate life dream, things are really looking up for me this evening.
Kristin: [Laughing] When we talked to Shannon, we were like, "So yeah, we would love to have you on an episode, you know, for Season 2 if you want" and she was like, "well, I like this episode and this episode but I have a feeling you’re gonna want me…" [Laughs]
Shannon: Yeah, I was like, I think maybe it would be most appropriate for me to talk about the Westworld episode.
Kristin: Yeah.
Shannon: I mean, and listen, John Ritter is amazing –
Kristin: He really is.
Shannon: And he is the only replacement for Yul Brynner I will tolerate.
NOTES: [laughter]
Kristin: [Laughs] Ooooh yeah, we have a lot to discuss, there’s a lot.
Shannon: Yeah, where do we even start?
Jenny: I mean, we could start with Xander’s pants.
Kristin: We should!
Jenny: They are sails!
Shannon: They got JNCOs!
Kristin: Yes! Right! Totally, did you wear pants like this?
Shannon: Absolutely not! [Laughs]
Jenny: [Laughs]
Kristin: [laughs] I ask cause I know that two –
Jenny: You’re in a room with two people –
Shannon: Did you guys both wear those pants?
Kristin: Ohh, yeah!
Jenny: Of course. I wanted to fit in.
Kristin: Mine look better than Xander’s.
Shannon: I wasn’t that much of a tomboy as a kid so like, I actually, every week, especially like, Season 3, which – don’t worry, I won’t spoil anything, I’m just talking about clothes here.
Kristin: You’re like, "they wear pants" and we’re like, "Shannon, we told you, no spoilers!"
Shannon: There’s hoodies, no hoodies, don’t say it! No, I remember I would go to like Marvin’s, is it Marvin’s? Mervin’s? Mervin’s.
Kristin: MER-vin’s.
Shannon: Mervin’s.
Kristin: That’s a California thing. Were you here –
Jenny: What the hell is Mervin’s?
Shannon: No, they had one in Texas, I was in Austin at the time, but I remember I would like go to try to find like the outfits that Buffy would wear.
Jenny: [Whispering] Yes.
Shannon: And I would try to like dress like her. My friends would always clock it, they’d be like, "cool overalls, yeah we saw that." [laughter] I mean, and in hindsight, I see pictures and I remember the outfits I was trying to copy and they weren’t flattering. Like, I didn‘t look anything like Buffy.
Kristin: I mean some of them aren’t even flattering on… you know what I mean? They’re not…
Shannon: Yeah.
Jenny: What percentage of clothing was flattering in the 1990s?
Kristin: Very little, except, I mean, listen...
Shannon: I don’t know, Buffy looks pretty cute to me.
Kristin: This episode, Buffy had a lot of serious costumes in this episode.
Shannon: Yeah, things were really intense.
Kristin: Like, she’s wearing heels to mini golf.
Shannon: Kitten heels, even!
Kristin: Yeah, she’s got, like – the thing that she wears right after the mini golf outfit, where she’s in the red patterned thing.
Jenny: The thing that’s like made out of upholstery like fabric.
Shannon: The camisole. It was like a camisole and then like an over thing, I was like, oh wow, double pattern! I mean, it’s pretty cool…
Kristin: Yeah, it’s great, but like she’s literally just in her house and her kitchen.
Jenny: It’s made out of drapes.
Kristin: Okay.
Shannon: They were all like very expensive. These were a lot of expensive outfits. I was really… that jacket she’s wearing when she’s sitting on the stoop when the coroner is dragging the robot out, by the way, because apparently no one noticed that he has steel for limbs. [laughter] But that jacket, I was like, that’s got to be a $4000 coat, that’s an expensive coat.
Kristin: [Laughs] Yeah, they really went for it. And we don’t even have Kate with us this week to talk about it, but I think Kate would have had a lot to say for this episode.
Shannon: There’s a lot to be said.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: There’s a lot of costumes. My big note before the credits about costumes, besides Xander’s pants was Willow’s condom hat, as I called it.
Jenny: [Laughs]
Shannon: Is it a Kangol hat? Do you remember those? Those Kangol bucket hats? And they were like – I feel like that’s what it was.
Kristin: Yeah, it’s rolled up, just like very tightly around her head, just –
Shannon: Do you think she thought it was funny? I wonder if she was like, "this is funny hat, I’ve got to wear it, it’s so silly!"
Kristin: I don’t know, when I look back at the hats I wore in the 90s, now I would think I would’ve known that they were ridiculous, but I sure didn’t!
Shannon: Right.
Jenny: There was a lot of collective bad hat decision-making and permission-granting.
Kristin: My only fan picture of my whole life is with Letters to Cleo and I’m wearing a fisherman bucket hat.
Shannon: Oh no!
Jenny: Yeah...
Kristin: Yeah, it’s really something.
Jenny: It’s great.
Shannon: I remember that time in the 90s where suddenly it was like, "you know who was so cool? Gilligan! [laughter] Why don’t we dress more like
him?" And everybody was like, collectively: "absolutely, absolutely."
Jenny: [Laughs] Yeah, yeah!
Shannon: And then they were like "But, you know what’s missing? I love the hat, you’re dead on about that trend. What if it was fuzzy?" And everyone again was like, "Yes! Yes!"
Jenny: [Laughing] "Why didn’t we think of this already?" Spectacular.
Kristin: [Laughing, groans] Yeah, we’re so happy! Oh god. So –
Shannon: Anyway…
Kristin: Anyhow, fantastic outfits, we get to the house, the door is open, a glass breaks. Buffy goes to Joyce’s rescue and what does she find, but her mother making out with –
Shannon: Pre-boning.
Kristin: Yeah – [Laughs]
Jenny: Gross! An objection. First, I have an objection to "pre-boning" and secondary –
Shannon: [makes gagging noise] You’re fired! I never said – I just made it up. [laughter] But it felt gross enough to say that like, that’s Buffy’s reaction, so I feel like I got it out of everyone one of us. Like, oh god, no!
Kristin: Yeah, she is not pleased.
Jenny: Secondary objection, the amount of time that passes between the breaking glass, the scream of "no!" and then just exactly how wrapped together they are, I –
Kristin: Well, Ted is a big man. [Laughs]
Jenny: [Groaning with displeasure]
Shannon: Also, it must have fallen in such a particular direction that they were like, "absolutely no risk of getting cut!"
Jenny: Yeah, yeah. [Laughs] We’ll just leave that there and move closer.
Shannon: Let’s keep pre-boning!
Kristin: Yeah – oh god, oh god.
Shannon: I’m gonna keep saying it, it’s so bad. It’s so bad.
Jenny: [groans unhappily and laughs]
Kristin: It’s so bad. And this is the shortest pre-credits situation I think we’ve seen to date.
Jenny: It’s so quick.
Kristin: It takes one second, this happens…
Shannon: Because he’s probably the most famous guest star they’d had ‘till then, it was a great reveal for them.
Jenny: Ahhhh!
Kristin: Yeah, that’s true.
Shannon: They were like, "And we’ve got John Ritter!"
Kristin: Yeah! He’s their first special guest, special guest star.
Shannon: Yeah, and I’m trying to think, were there other – I don’t know if I can think of anyone who was bigger than John Ritter who was ever a guest on the show.
Kristin: Yeah, I don’t know –
Shannon: No offense to all the other guest stars on the show but John Ritter’s a legend, so.
Kristin: Yeah, John Ritter was –
Jenny: Yeah, he’s pretty massive. Oh well, there’s Joel Grey, appears later. Amy Adams before Amy Adams is anyone.
Kristin: Really?
Shannon: What episode is she in?
Jenny: Um...
Shannon: Do you have to tell me after? We’ll spoil it.
Jenny: I think it’s season four or five, I’ll tell you later what the context is.
Shannon: Okay, yeah, tell me later. That’s so funny. I never knew that.
Kristin: Yeah, I didn’t either, but I also... so I’m in the room now with two Buffy-philes.
Jenny: Oh! Also, the guy from… Prison Break! Is –
Kristin: Wentworth?
Shannon: Wentworth. There’s a lot of people that are… I just mean he was already famous.
Jenny: Oh right! But John Ritter is a legend.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Right, I got too excited.
Shannon: He was already, anyway yeah, so that’s why the cold open was so quick.
Kristin: Totally. That makes so much sense.
Shannon: Why upstage him with more story?
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Right. Right.
Kristin: Get that credit in and have her be like, "Oh my god, that was John Ritter!"
Shannon: And we finally have Buffy really acting like a full-on teenager for really probably the first time.
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: Totally.
Shannon: Which is such a role reversal for them because usually Joyce is the one who needs Buffy’s help. And Buffy is in an adult position and it’s unfair and it’s a lot of weight on her shoulders. And it kind of makes the whole metaphor of the show really work, and then all of a sudden this one they’re like "…and we’re gonna make Buffy a child for the first time."
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Yeah.
Shannon: The stakes are the most realistic, I feel like, in this episode than they are in the rest of the series. At least as much as I can remember, and I think that’s why I always didn’t like the episode as much, because it’s like reality comes crashing in on you.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Right right.
Kristin: Yeah, I mean it’s the first time that we’re seeing Buffy grapple with the fact that this isn’t a demon. I mean, we eventually find out that he’s made of steel.
Shannon: She gets interrogated by the police like –
Kristin: Yeah!
Shannon: There’s a full-on interrogation scene, it went SVU for a minute.
Kristin: And we talk a lot on this podcast about the lack of police intervention. [laughs]
Shannon: Right. They really get involved this time, they went to the school, they were like, "We want to see your teacher’s notebooks on Buffy." And he’s like, "Thanks for this" and one of the teachers is like "looky here" and he’s like "Uh uh uh, that looks like murder time to me!"
Kristin: [Laughs] Giles just hands over the Vampyre book, like, a leather bound – he’s like "this is all I have on Buffy, good luck."
Jenny: [Laughs]
Shannon: He does say something in the hallway to her at one point where he’s like, "I told them…" and then he kinda gets cut off, and you’re like, "What did you tell them?"
Jenny: Yeah, what exactly…
Kristin: Yeah, what did you tell – "She’s moody. She was really taking it out on that vampire."
Shannon: She’s in the library a lot . [laughter] Loves to read.
Jenny: Book-cracker Buffy, that’s her nickname.
Shannon: Yeah, that’s her nickname.
Kristin: And plus, I feel like this episode – I feel – I don’t know how you feel but I feel like we have even more wiggle room to kind of, like, talk about bigger –
Shannon: Right, because it’s an interstitial episode.
Jenny: Noone’s like, "ugh, the narrative..."
Kristin: "I can’t believe they didn’t mention – " yeah.
Shannon: Wait, can I just say that they really did touch on something that matters to me a lot? In the scene right after the cold open, when Xander and Willow are over at the house and they’re in the kitchen. And Ted is making pizza perfectly . They have a pizza robot. [laughter] Someone made a pizza robot . And honestly, I’ve never heard of a better idea.
Kristin: [Laughs] It’s true, but I have to ask you, because one of my notes was also about the pizza…
Shannon: Yeah?
Kristin: [laughing] ‘Cause I looked at that pizza, Shannon.
Shannon: It didn’t look good.
Kristin: No, it didn’t. It didn’t. It didn’t. [Laughs]
Shannon : And bless the prop people, but they made those in the staff kitchen, six or seven hours before. Because the day ran long, you know, they were supposed to make the – they didn’t have time to pre-melt the cheese.
Jenny: I feel like my mom used to get those at Costco? They just like –
Kristin: The hockey puck pizzas.
Jenny: Yeah, exactly.
Shannon: You think they were actually just the Costco ones?
Jenny: I think they were just straight up –
Shannon: Yeah, they were just cooked.
Jenny: Is that less realistic than...
Shannon: No, I think that’s more realistic. But they cook them in like –
Kristin: [Laughs] But I liked your story more.
Shannon: But they still did make them in the crap oven there on the stage or whatever.
Kristin: Right. I just love that everyone was like, "These are the best pizzas" and they were like clanging off of the dishes. [laughs]
Shannon: I feel like they had so much to get to that day that the director’s note of like, "Can we make the pizzas looks, I dunno, edible?" and they were like, "Nah, forget it."
Jenny: [Laughs]
Kristin: [Laughs] Yeah, not today.
Jenny: He made it sound really good when he was talking about baking them and then sautéing them in olive oil and herbs, so I thought…
Kristin: Yeah! You have to use a cast iron.
Jenny: No room for compromise.
Shannon: He’s like, "And you gotta use the cast iron!"
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Later, someone will use the cast iron.
Kristin: I don’t want to miss – there’s a few quotes in this episode that I don’t want to miss. And one of them I think happens right before we get to the pizzas, which is when Buffy makes this off-hand comment to Joyce about how she must have been cataloguing more than art.
Shannon: [Laughs] Yeah!
Jenny: Sick. Gross.
Shannon: But she says it in this way where she’s, like, really hurt. She’s like, [dejected] "Guessing you’ve been... cataloguing more than art." And you’re like, "are you worried your mom’s cheating on you?" It’s so funny. But she says it in this really earnestly hurt way that really made me laugh.
Kristin: [Laughs] Yeah. Joyce is all – I mean, I give everybody a pass on this because we find out that they’re, of course, eating drugged – delicious, but drugged food. But Joyce – [crosstalk]
Shannon: It’s pot food, right?
Kristin: Yeah, they’re just eating edibles for the whole episode.
Shannon: They’re like, "I love this stuff, it’s delicious!" [laughter]
Kristin: But it’s just like, Joyce – I know it’s the drugs, whatever. But Joyce is – come on, Joyce is not Joyce in this episode. I cannot believe that Joyce is gonna fall for Ted. I just can’t!
Jenny: She’s a mess.
Shannon: I know. It’s one of those things where, and a lot of shows do this, they’re just like, "Well, for this episode, you’re just this person. Let’s just like..." And Buffy’s mom has always been that character to me in the show that like, she’s there to serve a purpose for the story, you know, as a barrier between Buffy being a grownup or not, you know?
Kristin: Mmm. Right.
Shannon: And this way, it really keeps her a child. And also, the fact that Joyce is suddenly like, "I don’t believe anything you ever say, Buffy."
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Right!?
Shannon: When she’s like, "He said he would slap my little face" and she’s like, "He said no such thing." I was like, "Ahh, I feel really triggered by this..." [Laughs]
Jenny: Yeah. [Laughs]
Kristin: Yeah...
Shannon: It’s like someone being like, "That person raped me" and they’re like, [laughing] "No they didn’t, you stupid woman, shut your whore mouth!"
Kristin: Right!
Jenny: [Laughs] Fuck.
Kristin: But that’s kinda of where we’re at with this episode, it really truly is. It’s so violent.
Shannon: I know, yeah.
Jenny: Yeah.
Shannon: Yeah, it’s very purposeful too. It’s definitely – it’s not lost on them. I mean, it’s smart, it’s just dark.
Kristin: It is!
Shannon: It’s one of the darkest episodes because it really does hit home in a way that the rest of the show doesn’t. It’s more of a metaphor where this becomes really real. Her mother has a horrible, misogynist, abusive boyfriend. And Buffy tries to save her mom and the cops are like, "we’re gonna lock you up forever!" It’s dark! [laughs]
Kristin: Yes! We’re really jumping around but like the scene with the cops is – you know, they’re really questioning the victim in the situation, although Ted is dead at this point. But there’s just a lot – you know what there’s a lot of, guys?
Jenny: Is it the patriarchy?
Kristin: It’s the patriarchy!
Shannon: It’s a lot – I mean, they should have just called this episode "Patriarchy."
Kristin: Yes. [Laughs]
Jenny: [Laughs]
Kristin: Because, I have a whole patriarchy segment of my notes.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: But I mean, they’re mostly just quotes from Ted. Ted makes me more uncomfortable than I think any character we have seen to date. And there are demons that – I don’t like looking at the Master’s fruit punch mouth. I don’t like it.
Shannon: It’s ‘cause this one really hits home. It’s a little too close to home.
Kristin: It is his like, you know, "Joyce, let me handle this" and of course, " little lady." "Sweetheart." [Jenny makes an uncomfortable noise] There’s just so much of that fucking bullshit.
Shannon: "I beg to differ, little lady..."
Kristin: Ugh.
Jenny: [whimpers] No.
Kristin: It really – it makes my body feel bad. My whole – my nerves – my nerve endings are just not… yeah, there’s a lot.
Jenny: Ugh.
Kristin: So, yeah, this episode, you’re right, this episode could be titled "The Patriarchy."
Shannon: Heavy stuff.
Kristin: We’ve had a couple of episodes that, you know – "Reptile Boy" was super – you know, it had a demon lizard chained the basement that they would sacrifices girl to. [Laughing] So there was patriarchy there. [laughter] But this one is, yeah, you’re right. I mean, overall, it’s just very real. It’s like real people, even though he’s a robot. He was a real person and he’s the embodiment of his real person –
Shannon: Is that... true?
Kristin: Right? Did I read the story wrong?
Shannon: I don’t think they said anything like that, right?
Jenny: I think at the very end, there’s a little bit of exposition where they’re trying to explain it really quick…
Kristin: And what did they say?
Jenny: Xander’s talking and they said Ted, the real, the original Ted…
Kristin: Ted 1.0.
Jenny: Uh, was a brilliant computer programmer –
Shannon: Oh right, and made a robot himself.
Jenny: Got sick, his wife left him. He made a robot of himself who then went and got the wife, I guess?
Kristin: And then killed the wife.
Jenny: And maybe killed her or held her captive until she died and then got another wife, and another wife, and another wife…
Shannon: So where’s real Ted?
Jenny: Dead.
Kristin: Dead. I guess?
Shannon: Okay.
Jenny: Of cancer, or something close to cancer is kind of what they implied, but back in the 50s or something.
Kristin: It’s a very loose – it’s a very loosely…
Jenny: They really don’t go to any trouble to outline it.
Shannon: I mean, the craziest thing too is that of all the stuff that they’ve seen, of all the supernatural stuff, this is a practical thing. Like, someone has jumped a thousand years or something technologically and been like, no, this guy who works at a remedial software company whose a software salesman, by the way. It just turns out, like, he built an incredible android! And everybody's like, huh!
Kristin: [Laughing] Sure, yeah! Of course!
Shannon: So I’m not gonna tell Mom that. I mean, she might be onto my vampire stuff if I tell her about that really intense computer she was dating. [laughter] Like, it’s just so weird, it’s such a strange jump.
Kristin: So okay, chronologically, Buffy is like "I hate Ted" and then goes to the graveyard, cemetery, I can never remember which the fuck it is.
Jenny: Cemetery, let’s say.
Kristin: Cemetery and beats the shit out of a vampire, taking her aggressions out. And the only reason that I want to call attention to it is because Giles says, "It’s staking time." And I love it. And Shannon, we watch the episodes twice, so we watched this yesterday before we watched it today. And last night when we watched it and Giles said that, I sang "Closing Time" but using "staking time." So I just wanted everyone to know that.
Shannon: Great!
Kristin: And that’s my complete story about that scene.
Jenny: That’s something you can do at home, too.
Kristin: What do you mean? Oh, you can, yes.
Jenny: The listener.
Kristin: Yes, you too, listeners, you too can sing [singing] Staking time…
Jenny: Great!
Kristin: You’re welcome. Thank you. [Laughs]
Shannon: Also after that scene, you know, I pointed this out when we were watching it. Buffy’s never winded unless it’s a plot point.
Kristin: [laughs]
Jenny: [laughs] Well, is that ‘cause she’s the slayer and she’s super strong?
Shannon: It’s because the actress didn’t, like, have to –
Jenny: Didn’t feel like it?
Shannon: Her stunt double, who’s amazing by the way. I remember being such a big fan when I was watching the show live as a kid, of her stunt double because she’s incredible. But it’s like, she just steps in and just the last bit, and then she does her scene. But every time I’m like, god, that stunt double was exhausted, she was breathing so hard. [Jenny and Kristin laugh] And she’s like [pants loudly] and doing roundhouses and all of a sudden she’s like, "Oh Giles, I’m so bored" and it just makes me laugh.
Kristin: [laughing] You know, last week we learned that that stunt double was also the stunt double for the pink ranger, right?
Jenny: Yeah!
Shannon: I knew that!
Kristin: Yeah!
Shannon: But I wonder what she went on to do, that’s the thing. I never looked her up after. I wonder what she does now.
Kristin: I dunno!
Jenny: We should find out.
Kristin: We should and we can find out.
Shannon: [chanting] Let’s find out. Let’s find out.
Jenny: Y’all. Here we go. Buffy’s stunt double was, of course, Sophia Crawford.
Shannon: Yuh! Big ups!
Jenny: Who was one of triplets.
Shannon: What!?
Kristin: What!?
Jenny: That’s right. She also performed as Sarah Michelle Gellar’s stunt double in Scream 2.
Kristin: What!? Be still my...
Shannon: Because when you’ve got a great double, that’s a thing, by the way, that people do. They get the part and –
Jenny: Some people look their whole life for a great double and never find one.
Kristin: I love when Wes Craven gets brought up on this podcast. My favorite thing. Something that is really small that I just need to say because I noticed it last episode, is the fucking vending machine in the school. There’s a whole second row of snacks where they’re all upside down.
Shannon: I saw that. I think it’s because they’re trying to hide the logos.
Kristin: Except for, they’re Fritos and Doritos. You know what I mean? They are.
Jenny: Like you don’t recognize that upside down?
Shannon: They are, but they can’t show the logos, I think.
Kristin: It’s so funny, it’s just so funny. Like, you’d think they’d go for non-branded snacks.
Shannon: I bet it was actually just easier to just get real ones and just hide the names.
Kristin: So funny.
Jenny: Mmmmm.
Kristin: And like, did the cast and crew ever eat the snacks out of the vending machine or was it just for show?
Shannon: I wonder if it’s actually just the vending machine in the school.
Jenny: Oh yeah.
Kristin: Oh, in Torrance High School?
Shannon: I bet it probably is and that’s why they’re upside down, they just open it up and turn them upside down.
Kristin: I love it. So Xander has a pretty good episode.
Shannon: He’s very funny in this episode.
Kristin: He’s very –
Jenny: He’s funny and inoffensive.
Kristin: Yes! And we – Shannon, we talk about Xander a good amount because our listeners talk about Xander a good amount and because we talk about the patriarchy a good amount. And somebody – a few people have written in to us saying, you know, Xander – the character Xander is really tasked with kind of the burden of carrying the patriarchy because he is really the teenage boy and what have you. But a few people have written in to us and said, but in future episodes, where characters start to be introduced who can carry that weight, Xander starts to be, you know, a more fully fleshed out character and what have you. And I feel like this is the first real example of it that we’re seeing, ‘cause Ted is – Ted’s doing a fine job.
Jenny: Ted’s handling it.
Shannon: I think there’s another reason for it too though, which is, for the first season and a half, Xander’s pouty because he doesn’t get Buffy. And that’s the patriarchy there, right? That he feels like he deserves her, and it’s that way he feels open about pouting about it and annoyed that he can’t have her that’s so patriarchal. And then he starts getting some from Cordelia and suddenly he’s like, okay, I’ve got mine so we’re good now.
Jenny: "I’m in a better mood now."
Kristin: You’re right!
Shannon: And so that’s why he gets to change his attitude, because his drive is now elsewhere.
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: Great assessment.
Kristin: So the patriarchy lives.
Shannon: The patriarchy lives. It’s just that he’s distracted and he has his other outlet, one that is a character. We don’t mind if he gives her a hard time because –
Jenny: [laughing] ‘Cause she can hold her own?
Shannon: She’s a ridiculous character, in a great way.
Kristin: Yeah, actually – a ridiculous character in a great way. I didn’t think she was gonna get her jingle...
Jenny: But now’s the time.
Kristin: But now, you know what, she’s going to get her jingle.
NOTES: [Cordelia Jingle plays] Cordelia (ah-ahh) I love you, Cordelia (ah-ahh) You’re perfect, Cordelia
Kristin: Well. Now you’ve heard the jingle, Shannon, what do you think?
Shannon: Uh you know, it’s interesting you say she’s perfect. She knows that already. [laughter] It’s a lot more moving than I expected it to be, it was sweet. It was really sweet. It was ethereal, which is not what I think when I think of Cordelia. But I’m really into it.
Jenny: I think in the off hours, at the end of a long hard day of being Cordelia, I think what Cordelia really needs is a gentle, ethereal appreciation jingle.
Shannon: Yeah and like a melatonin. [laughter]
Kristin: Definitely a melatonin.
Shannon: Give ‘er some mela-tee!
Kristin: Someone who does not have a jingle but who is really holding strong in this season, appears. Jenny Calendar.
Shannon: Jenny Calendar.
Kristin: What are your Jenny Calendar feelings?
Shannon: Honestly?
Kristin: Yeah.
Shannon: I was never a huge Jenny Calendar fan. And rewatching now, ‘cause obviously I haven't watched the show in a long time. She just really seems, like, really crazy to me. She’s got crazy eyes in a way that I feel like Giles would spot. But you know, it’s a cute little bit. Always out of left field for me, sorry to all the Jenny Calendar fans.
Jenny: [laughs] They are legion.
Kristin: No, I mean, everybody’s got their –
Shannon: I just don’t respond to her the way I feel like I’m supposed to.
Kristin: Yeah. The last few episodes for her, she’s been going through some stuff.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah. She got possessed by a demon.
Shannon: It seems like a real warning sign that’s she’s like, "Listen, you are making me feel bad." I get it –
Kristin: Yeah, I didn’t like this scene.
Shannon: But it’s real snappy. I was like, oh, she’s a little intense.
Kristin: Jenny was into it.
Jenny: I really like that she’s so good at saying what she needs when Giles is, in fact, lingering about, after essentially being responsible for something super traumatic that happened to her.
Kristin: Yeah, that’s true.
Shannon: Yeah.
Kristin: I was gonna say, Giles is pulling a Jenny Owen Youngs –
Jenny: How dare you.
Kristin: In this scene.
Shannon: It’s not so much what she’s saying. It’s how she’s saying it.
Jenny: It’s not a great vibe.
Shannon: I’m feeling warning signs. [laughter] But you know, she’s just, like, a casual witch.
Kristin: A techno-pagan, you know.
Shannon: Yeah, just a techno-pagan computer teacher.
Jenny: Just casting some bones on the internet.
Kristin: So we’re in this episode but you’re here. And can we just hear a little bit about your relationship to this show, ‘cause we know it, but they don’t – the listeners don’t know.
Shannon: To Buffy?
Kristin: Yeah.
Shannon: I mean, I was just an über fan. I was such an über fan. I would watch every episode live and I would record the show on my VCR. I had every episode. I would just buy VHS tapes from Eckerds. When my mom would go I would be like, "I have to go because I need to get another VHS tape."
Jenny: Yes!
Shannon: And I would record it on extended play. Did you know you can do that? You could set your VCR to record at a much slower rate so you could get eight hours out of something instead of getting, like, two hours.
Jenny: What?
Kristin: Wow! Wait, so it recorded at a lower quality?
Shannon: Yeah, at a lower quality so you could get more because it’s not like I was made of money when I was thirteen.
Kristin: Right.
Shannon: You know, my parents weren’t exactly dying to encourage – I knew how to set the VCR timer. And as soon as IRC was around, then I was downloading the episodes ‘cause that was legal at the time. Nobody was streaming anything. You’d get like MPEGs. I was encoding MPEGs.
Kristin: Oh my goodness.
Jenny: Wow.
Shannon: Just really, truly the nerdiest person.
Kristin: Do you have a favorite character? Even if they haven’t appeared yet.
Shannon: Yeah, I was just a Buffy person. It was a great role model. She was smart, she was funny, she was never too put upon because of the burden that she had. You know, she was... I don’t know, I think I just wanted to relate to her. Saying I related to her sounds like I’m complimenting myself.
Kristin: I don’t know, I say it all the time so you go right ahead.
Shannon: Even when we were shooting Westworld, I was telling our showrunner, Lisa Joy, after we finished the season, we were talking about it and we were talking about Buffy. ‘Cause she is a big Buffy fan too. And I was like, "I feel like I play Buffy the Vampire Slayer, but you know, slightly nerdier" and she’s like "Okay, or you’re more Willow" and I was like "No, I see myself as this" and she was like "Okay, I don’t want to mess that up for you. But, you know." [Kristin laughs] And I’m like, [stuttering] "No, I’m – I’m Buffy." "Whatever you want to think, Shannon. That’s just not how I –"
NOTES: [laughter]
Kristin: Amazing.
Shannon: Not that I’m not a Willow fan, I am. I was just like, I just never really connected with Willow.
Kristin: Right, you see yourself as a Buffy. Hell yes.
Shannon: Yeah. Anyway, so funny. I remember actually when I was – I came to L.A. to start acting when I was about 15. So the show was still on, it was still shooting. I mean, they were probably doing Season 4 or 5.
Kristin: Mm-hmm.
Shannon: And I went to their stage for an audition because their casting directors were casting something else. And I went to the stage and they gave me a visitor sticker and I was slow walking through their set. Like, through the graveyard.
Kristin: Oh my god.
Shannon: I was just like "Oh my god!" I was freaking out. I don’t even remember what I was auditioning for, I know I didn’t get the job. I was just, like, so excited – I was a child. I was so excited. I remember I went up to an AD and was like, "Do you think maybe Sarah Michelle Gellar would let me meet her?" and they were like, "No! Get off our lot" [laughter]
Kristin: Oh no!
Shannon: Right, this was after my audition, but I remember I found this the other day in some old notebook, the visitor sticker.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Shannon: And I wrote on the side of the sticker "the day I almost met the cast of Buffy the Vampire Slayer."
Jenny: Oh my god!
Kristin: That’s so wonderful!
Shannon: It’s so embarrassing even to say out loud. Just like, such a nerd. It was still so real to me.
Kristin: Yeah, I mean, it was still going on.
Shannon: I’m actually really glad I didn’t see – but I was just like, "oh my god, this is crazy!" When I first came to L.A., I drove to Torrance High School and walked around.
Jenny: Hell yeah!
Kristin: Of course you did. Did those VHS tapes – are they long gone?
Shannon: Yeah, I think I threw them out or gave them to Goodwill or something. Probably around 18 or 19.
Kristin: Yeah.
Shannon: I mean, as soon as I started working and I was busy, the fixation was removed. I think ‘cause –
Kristin: Yeah.
Shannon: But I mean, it was, like, truly a fixation.
Kristin: Goodness, goodness. Well, and jumping back into the episode now, you’re an Angel fan.
Shannon: Yeah, I was an Angel fan.
Kristin: We get a little Angel here.
Shannon: Yeah.
Kristin: My note is "Angel’s sexy hand wrap." That’s how I wanted to remember this scene.
Shannon: [laughs] It’s also something that you can so easily do yourself. [laughter] The hand wrap? It’s such a simple wound to be like, "Ah, it’s time to redress it." Also, like, what, ‘cause he’s gonna get an infection?
Jenny: Also don’t vampires heal fast?
Kristin: Yeah, he heals –
Shannon: That’s what I mean.
Jenny: What the fuck!
Shannon: Also he’s definitely not gonna get an infection. It’s not like he’s like, "well, I don’t wanna lose the hand, I’ve had it for 300 years." [laughter] "Because I take good care of my wounds."
Kristin: I don’t know, maybe it’s their foreplay. You know? A little hand wrapping, a little making out.
Jenny: A little pre-boning.
Kristin: Oh, come on! You guys are really holding onto –
Shannon: Pre-B! [laughter]
Kristin: No! No, no!
Jenny: I apologize.
Shannon: Never be sorry.
Kristin: But yeah, we get a little bit of Angel.
Shannon: A little bit. A little bit of hard making out. The making out is getting –
Kristin: Yeah, they’re going somewhere, those two.
Shannon: They’re at a 7 on a 1-10 right now.
Kristin: So this is where your expertise, Shannon, is gonna start to come into play.
Shannon: Yeah!
Kristin: Because we’re at mini-golf and Ted fucking loses his fucking mind.
Shannon: Yeah!
Kristin: He shorts. I think he loses – I don’t know. You would probably – from your research for your character –
Shannon: My research for my character – [laughter] [nerdy voice] robots tend to get very upset when they lose mini-golf. [laughter] I don’t know if you’ve met a lot of androids, but I know Maeve really loses it. [normal voice] Yeah, I think this actually should be a niche exhibit at Westworld. Just the narrative where the robot is really serious about mini-golf. [Jenny laughs] Just Teddy is like [in a low Southern accent] "Well sir, the rules are the rules. I saw you kick that ball out of the rough." You can see, my robot accent is –
Kristin: Wow, that was a pretty great Teddy, just for the record.
Shannon: Thank you so much. It would be too weird if I actually tried to impersonate a co-worker. I feel like that’s – it’s crossing the line. [laughter]
Kristin: So yeah, this is – oh sorry, Jenny, go ahead.
Jenny: I just feel like Buffy is super strong and she has all these heightened senses and abilities. Why wouldn’t she just hit it out of the rough? I feel like she could’ve gotten a hole-in-two.
Kristin: Well, because I think like what Shannon mentioned earlier, she’s really being portrayed as the teenager –
Shannon: It’s like what we were saying before, where Joyce kinda serves a different purpose. It happens a lot I think on this show – this episode in particular is like, well, Buffy’s a teenager this time.
Jenny: Right right right.
Shannon: This is about the real weight of –
Kristin: They’re like, put her in the kitten heels, make her clomp over to the rough, walk over to the thing. But this is great, John Ritter is fucking incredible.
Jenny: Yeah, what a great creep.
Kristin: He’s terrifying.
Shannon: He is terrifying.
Kristin: Yeah, he’s an incredible creep. He really embodies this, freaks everybody out. And then as we’ve already discussed, Joyce doesn’t believe Buffy.
Jenny: Ugh!
Shannon: Remember when Ted tells Buffy that it’s okay to have feelings?
Kristin: Ohhh!
Shannon: I kind of lost my shit emotionally watching that again. I was like, "I feel so triggered [gets faster and faster and angrier] I can have feelings if I want to! Of course I can, I’m a human!" [laughter]
Kristin: We’ll be offering that noise from –
Shannon: Thank you for telling me that it’s okay for my heart to beat!
Kristin: That noise from Shannon will be offered as a ringtone. It’ll be called the patriarchy ringtone. [laughter]
Shannon: If you could text me that ringtone, I will... actually, just before I forget, I was thinking I may – you know how you can rename Siri? I might name her Ted.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: Ooh! Are you sure you’re gonna be able to handle that though?
Shannon: It’d be such a deep cut.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Sick.
Shannon: I’d be like, hey Ted? I just want to see how long it’s gonna take for somebody to notice that I named my Siri after the robot boyfriend.
Kristin: Somehow reprogram her to say "malarky" a bunch of times.
Shannon: "That’s malarky." "I beg to differ, little lady" instead of "Sorry what was that? I didn’t quite get that." "I beg to differ, little lady."
NOTES: [laughter]
Kristin: Yeah, you turn the wrong way down a street, "I beg to differ –"
Shannon: God damn it!
Jenny: Yo, in the scene with the sticky buns –
Kristin: A great sentence already.
Jenny: Yeah. When –
Shannon: The Sticky B’s! [laughter] I gotta keep this as a theme.
Jenny: When Joyce is just like, letting Buffy know that she doesn’t believe her and that her experience is not valid –
Kristin: Mm-hmm.
Jenny: I just want to point out that Joyce’s hair has softened into a thing that we haven’t seen before.
Shannon: I noticed that, is it like a 50s thing?
Jenny: I think it’s like a 50s, 60s vibe.
Shannon: I think it was on purpose.
Kristin: Yeah, totally.
Shannon: I was noticing that and it kind of changed –
Jenny: That’s probably how Ted likes her hair. [grossed out noises]
Kristin: Good call. Ugh.
Shannon: ‘Cause the house was very 50s when we see it later.
Jenny: Oh yeah. Oh, hell yeah.
Shannon: I was wondering what was going on with the hair change. I was like – and I actually was like, did they have a new hair person that episode? They’re kind of just figuring out what they want to do or something?
Kristin: Yeah, that was a good call ‘cause I kind of noticed it but I didn’t even connect it to the larger theme.
Shannon: Yeah.
Kristin: So then we go to the high school and there’s a banner. I’m just calling that out because we have talked a lot about how Sunnydale High School fucking loves a banner.
Jenny: They just love a banner.
Shannon: They might be –
Kristin: This week is a pep rally.
Shannon: Oh, right, the signs in the background. Yeah. I saw that.
Kristin: Yeah, yeah. There’s just always – somebody’s making a banner, hanging a banner.
Jenny: Oh! Were you gonna say maybe it’s hanging over something that says Torrance High School?
Shannon: Yeah, I meant the one that says Sunnydale, like, the banner outside. Like yeah, I wonder if it’s covering stuff like that.
Jenny: Yeah.
Shannon: Like something practical
Kristin: I would love to know what is behind every banner in the series, you know? Just rip it down.
Shannon: Also it’s the high school in 90210 too, right?
Jenny: Yeah!
Shannon: I think that they were just very aware of that too, maybe the production designers, being like this is not 90210, this is a different school.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Totally. I have a personal question based on what we see happen between Xander and Cordelia. So Xander complements Cordelia’s outfit and Cordelia’s like, "the fuck are you doing, you idiot?" And then they want to make out in the utility closet, which reminded me of My So Called Life.
Jenny: [Gasps]
Shannon: Oh yeah, I remember that, yeah.
Kristin: They used to always make out in the boiler room, right?
Shannon: Yeah!
Kristin: And I just thought, maybe it’s just me, but I didn’t make out anywhere in any secret room in my high school.
Shannon: I didn’t make out with anyone in high school so I’m really the wrong person –
Jenny: Me neither.
Kristin: That is a lie. You made out with people in high school.
Jenny: Well –
Kristin: But not in a secret room?
Jenny: No.
Kristin: Yeah. So it’s just like – but I kinda feel jealous about it.
Shannon: I literally never made out with anyone at school, ever. It didn’t even happen the one time.
Kristin: No, I think I made out with –
Jenny: You know why? ‘Cause school is not a place for making out! Giles and Jenny Calendar!
Shannon: [nerdy voice] It’s for studying and talking about Buffy the Vampire Slayer at lunch.
Jenny: Yeah, fuck yeah!
Shannon: Just ask tiny little baby me. [laughter] And for wearing the closest you could get to Sarah Michelle Gellar’s outfit that day.
Jenny: Yes exactly, it’s not for making out. Be you student or a teacher, especially teacher . Faculty, ugh!
Kristin: Yeah, Jenny – not Jenny Calendar but Jenny Owen Youngs was very mad about Giles and Jenny Calendar making out in the school.
Shannon: It is unhinged behavior [Jenny laughs] and completely unprofessional and really goes to my theory that it is a red flag.
Kristin: Right!?
Jenny: [whispers] Red flag.
Kristin: Ooh nice, Jenny. [laughs]
Jenny: There’s a great SNL sketch that you should totally check out called Red Flag. Look it up. Enjoy.
Kristin: Oh, I didn’t know that. I just thought you were... it reminded me of another SNL skit – whatever, continue. [laughter] I’m not gonna go down this path.
Shannon: That’s a different podcast.
Kristin: It’s a different thing.
Jenny: A slippery slope. Uh, Buffy goes to Ted’s office.
Kristin: She does, mm-hmm.
Shannon: And doesn’t even sneak around.
Jenny: Doesn’t even sneak around. Doesn’t even wear her normal detective outfit of trench coat and horrible sunglasses.
Shannon: She doesn’t even try to hide. She stands, like, right next to him in the snack area.
Jenny: Right by the snack desk.
Shannon: And she’s just fully stood up, not concerned. She’s just like –
Jenny: Sort of leaning forward.
Kristin: Yeah, yeah. This is a whole thing, a very interesting thing. She sees this picture folded in half, cutting Buffy out.
Jenny: The thing is, she knows that photo, it’s on her fridge at home. Why does she have to take it out of the – I mean, I know it’s for us.
Kristin: It’s for us.
Jenny: I know, but I can’t –
Shannon: Production only took the one picture, so... [laughter] we didn’t get around to doing a second picture, so we just have the one.
Kristin: But also why do you think – what’s the motivation for Ted to put the picture – is the robot’s motivation to have the life he once had and he just programed the robot wrong so that the robot’s really angry and kills the wives every time? Like, I don’t understand why –
Jenny: We’ll never know.
Kristin: And why does he have a job ?
Shannon: Just because the patriarchy.
Kristin: Cool. Cool cool cool.
Shannon: He has the job to serve the story, that’s it.
Jenny: To serve the story but also maybe some sort of 50s man patriarchy breadwinner thing.
Kristin: Ohhh-kay, yes.
Shannon: I just remembered that his conversation on the phone is like, "It’s actually very expensive software." [laughter] He’s talking about how expensive the software is.
Kristin: God!
Shannon: Like that would be a pro. Like, "I’ve got this new software, it’s quite expensive." In 1997, being like, "She runs cheap software."
Jenny: Just to the front of the episode when he’s talking computers with Willow and he’s like "I bet you love your 9 gig hard drive" and she’s like "I do!" You do?
Shannon: He gives her floppy disks later –
Kristin: Floppy disks!
Shannon: As an upgrade. [laughter]
Kristin: They’re like bundled together.
Shannon: He’s like, "Here’s the upgrade I talked to you about." I was like, that’s a disk.
Jenny: It was 5 floppy disks rubber-banded together.
Kristin: Cut to the scene that’s an hour long where Willow is just popping out one disk and inserting the next disk [laughter].
Shannon: [as Willow] "I love these new disks, they’re massive".
Jenny: Oh! Ted also has a job to pay for the rent on his weird, creepy underground apartment which is below the Halloween store or the same place the Halloween store was.
Kristin: Yeah.
Shannon: Whatever is their weird room on their lot that is a swing set for them.
Kristin: Yeah.
Shannon: They’re like, "today it’s an apartment." I swear, it’s the store later, but I think they use it as someone’s apartment at one point because I remember that window.
Kristin: We’ll find out. We’ll let you know –
Shannon: I don’t want to spoil – yeah.
Kristin: When we see it again.
Shannon: Holler at me.
Kristin: We will let you know. So, Ted dies.
Shannon: Wait, what?
Kristin: Ted dies. It happens so quickly.
Jenny: After Buffy finds out that they’re gonna get married?
Kristin: Yeah, which is fucking weird. That whole thing is weird.
Jenny: [grossed out noises]
Kristin: But this scene where she comes back into her room –
Jenny: Ugh! Ugh!
Kristin: And he’s sitting there like a fucking creep-o, with her diary.
Jenny: No!
Shannon: And he literally says he gonna send her to a psych ward.
Kristin: Yes!
Shannon: It’s full on, classic "if you don’t do what I say, I’m gonna lock you up in a psych ward."
Kristin: Right!?
Shannon: "I’ll put you in jail."
Kristin: He really went hard on –
Shannon: The patriarchy.
Kristin: The 1950s patriarchy. That brand of the patriarchy.
Shannon: And then when she gets upset, he punches her square in the face!
Kristin: So hard.
Jenny: Without a warning shot.
Shannon: If she hadn’t been a vampire slayer, which was very lucky for Ted in this moment –
Jenny: That her diary was true.
Shannon: She would have died because later, she gets slightly hit by Ted and Joyce gets knocked out.
Kristin: No, Joyce is knocked out, yeah.
Shannon: She’s out for hours. Doesn’t remember a thing.
Jenny: Yeah.
Shannon: Is just like, "Whew, he was weird, huh?"
Jenny: Yeah.
Shannon: In the end she’s like, "That was weird."
Kristin: Watching this episode, when we watched it for the first time, I don’t know. I guess I just anticipated that he would get killed for the first time in the end of the episode, so it really took me by surprise when we were 20 minutes in and Ted was dead at the bottom of the stairs. I was like, well where’s this gonna go? [laughter] You know?
Shannon: It goes into SVU. It’s like, dun dun!
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: So then Giles packs his bag full of all of the weapons in Sunnydale High School.
Shannon: In the smallest duffle bag.
Jenny: Hope the detectives don’t take a look in the Sunnydale library locker.
Shannon: He doesn’t even zip it up because sound was like, "Could you not zip it? [laughter] It’s really disruptive"
Kristin: Yeah, he just walks out with his open duffle bag.
Shannon: Is that a giant crossbow in that tiny duffle bag?
Jenny: [as Giles] "No! No no no!"
Kristin: The crossbow, again jumping ahead – so last episode we saw Kendra pick up the crossbow and be like "I know how to use this" and then trigger it and shoot it accidentally. And the crossbow is up to no good once again where Jenny Calendar accidentally shot Giles in the back.
Jenny: Let’s be real, as soon as Jenny Calendar picks up that crossbow, it is apparent that she is not a person that should be holding a crossbow.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: She does not look centered?
Kristin: No.
Shannon: Would you call that a red flag, or no? [laughter] Just wondering.
Jenny: Is there a color past red?
Shannon: When she’s waving it wildly, as if she’s attempting to aim but it looks like her eyes don’t work.
Jenny: [laughing] Yeah. She’s kinda dancing with it.
Shannon: It’s moving so much to where you’re like, "Are you aiming or trying to learn the macarena?" [laughter] It is a lot. So naturally she shoots him in the sacrum .
Kristin: Yeah, she really gets him good.
Jenny: But how about Giles ripping an arrow out of himself?
Shannon: In the liver or kidney or something, like, in the back. He’s – I can’t believe he lived. We never talk about that again.
Kristin: He does, though.
Jenny: Yeah, just another unanswered question from this episode.
Kristin: True. But he fucking yanks that thing right out of his own back.
Shannon: Ugh! And then they’re making out, like, two scenes later.
Kristin: Yeah, it’s a whole thing.
Shannon: I have issues.
Kristin: Oh god! Sorry, I just looked down at my – I have more notes but the one that popped out at me was "Daddy’s here."
Jenny: [loudly] Ew ew ew ew! Ew! Ew!
Kristin: I’m sorry. We’ll get there. We’re not there yet so I’m sorry because we’re gonna have to say it again. Okay, we learn some stuff we should go over before we get to daddy being here again. Bleh bleh bleh! There’s MDMA or something in –?
Jenny: Listen! Suspension of disbelief. Willow is looking at a cookie under a microscope! [laughter] What chemical compound does she see?
Shannon: It’s like Soylent Green or something, you know? [laughter] "It’s people!" It’s all his old dead wives.
Kristin: Right! Oh, god – but right –
Shannon: "Does this pizza taste like dead wives to you?" And Xander’s like, "Yes, it’s delicious."
Jenny: Exactly!
Kristin: Xander loves dead wives. That’s on brand.
Shannon: It tastes amazing ‘cause the patriarchy.
Kristin: Yeah, because of the patriarchy. So yeah, they’re being drugged but of course Buffy’s mad the whole time. So she’s the only one not drugged. Ted is alive. Now we got to it. Now we got to "Daddy’s here."
Shannon: Yeah. "Daddy’s here."
Jenny: Gross!
Kristin: Disgusting.
Shannon: Mike P, is that you? You know, ‘cause – sorry, because the Pences call each other Daddy and Mommy.
Jenny: [grossed out noises]
Shannon: It’s very strange.
Jenny: [continues making grossed out sounds]
Kristin: Oh, god, it’s like, "Daddy’s here" –
Shannon: Politics aside, guys, it is a crazy thing to do! [laughter] It. Is. Weird.
Kristin: It’s just disgusting. "I don’t take orders from women, I wasn’t wired that way." Says Ted.
Jenny: Blegh. Great.
Kristin: And this is where – you know, Jenny, you’ve been talking about Shannon being on this episode with us and getting into Ted’s robotics. And this is really where, I think, you might wanna ask some questions.
Jenny: Yeah! I mean, if you were teching on this – if you were teching on Ted, what would your moves be?
Shannon: Well, I mean, it depends. First of all, I don’t write the moves, let’s not give me too much credit here. [laughter] But you know, it depends on what his narrative is. Like, if he’s supposed to malfunction, if that’s part of the experience for Buffy –
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: Right right.
Shannon: You know, maybe she was like "I really just always wanted to kill a guy my mom wanted to pre-bone." [laughter] So now it’s an experience and she’s like "And I really wanted to have the cops be involved for the first and only time, I think, ever in this series." [laughter] "I want to feel some weight of my – like, the consequences of my actions." Maybe that’s her theme park experience.
Kristin: Interesting.
Jenny: So everything’s going according to plan. No adjustments necessary.
Shannon: Yeah, just because frankly, I don’t want to gives notes on whoever built Ted but why the hell are there so many lights in his cheek?
Kristin: [laughing] Yeah.
Shannon: When his skin comes off, it’s like, you don’t need those there, man. What is going on there? [laughter]
Kristin: Yeah, his skin coming off is a real...
Shannon: Just a true waste of luminosity there.
Kristin: But I’ll tell you what, a waste in practicality, but effective in the visual.
Jenny: Blegh.
Shannon: Yeah, they’re like, "It’s a robot!"
Kristin: Yeah. I’m a fan of the open-faced Ted.
Shannon: That’s an old model that responds to the radio signal in sector 3 of the park.
Jenny: Mm-hmm.
Kristin: "How about a nice game of Parcheesi?"
Jenny: No!
Shannon: Hard pass.
Kristin: I loved Parcheesi!
Jenny: Yeah, Parcheesi is fun, but not with Ted.
Shannon: Really?
Kristin: Yeah, you didn’t play Parcheesi? You weren’t a Parcheesi player?
Shannon: No.
Kristin: I loved it, I don’t know why. On face value, it seems like a pretty boring game.
Shannon: By the way, I love a board game. I’d play anything. But I’ve never played a Parcheesi.
Kristin: Parcheesi is like Sorry. Did you ever play Sorry?
Shannon: Oh yeah.
Kristin: I mean, it’s basically Sorry, but without... sorry.
Jenny: Without an apology?
Kristin: Yeah. It’s the non-apologist’s Sorry.
Shannon: It’s like un-co-dependent Sorry. Sorry, I’m sorry. Sorry, sorry, sorry [laughter] What if we made a game and we just called it "Sorry?" The women will always win. "Sorry sorry sorry sorry." [laughter]
Kristin: Yep.
Jenny: Speaking of women... you know that thing where sometimes in a young girl’s life, you just have four dead wives in your closet?
Kristin: For safe keeping.
Jenny: And you can only tell by looking, not by smelling, but we don’t know how – like, are they –
Shannon: Yeah, it never smells bad. It’s clearly clean skeletons.
Jenny: Kristin said, "I picture them in jars." I was thinking maybe they were skeletons.
Shannon: And I said those jars, first of all, where do you get giant industrial translucent jars? [laughter] That Xander can clearly see through. But also... how do you get all the flesh off the bones so quickly? I mean, unless that robot is from the 50s. Maybe the robot has been doing this since the 50s? Is he a 50s robot?
Kristin: Right? That’s the impression I got.
Jenny: No clear answers.
Kristin: Where does he get the body? You know what I mean? Because when we saw "I Robot, You Jane," is that the one where they build a robot – they’re building a robot body?
Jenny: Mm-hm.
Kristin: It would make sense ‘cause it’s called "I Robot, You Jane" but I just wanted to make sure. They need the bodies to make them alive again.
Shannon: Right.
Kristin: So you would think that you would need a casing, right? It’s...
Shannon: ‘Cause the 3D printers haven’t been invented yet –
Kristin: Exactly.
Shannon: In 1997, though androids have. The biggest problem is the skin.
Kristin: Precisely.
Shannon: Yeah. I mean, artificial intelligence is already here in 1997. Just no skin, which is hard.
Kristin: Right. But yeah, this episode... is a weird episode.
Shannon: There’s a lot of suspension of disbelief, more so than we’re used to.
Kristin: Yes.
Shannon: There’s a lot of world expanding here. They really kind of go out on a limb, but I like the limb. It’s just a very strange... there’s a lot of – it just is happening. Like, the cops must’ve decided to drop the charges on Buffy when he gets off the table. The autopsy table.
Kristin: Right? They’re like, "Well, the guy’s gone, so I guess we’ll – the body is not in the morgue anymore, so…" There’s a bunch of stuff –
Shannon: There’s a lot of, like, "it doesn’t matter for the story, so let’s just move on."
Kristin: Yeah.
Shannon: And it’s all – it’s definitely the right – it’s just crazy.
Kristin: It seems like one of the most important – I mean, I think one of the most important pieces of this episode is us looking at Buffy respond to harming a person. Even though we find out in the end that Ted was a robot. That’s, I think, the realest piece of it, is that she’s like "No, I killed someone. I used my strength against a human." And we haven’t really seen that ever happen before.
Shannon: Yeah, I actually thought it was interesting that they decided not to go there deeper. That she doesn’t question her power or be like, "I’m not doing this anymore –"
Jenny: Mmm.
Shannon: "I don’t want to be a violent person anymore." I mean, I’m sure there was that idea in the room and they were like, that’s not where we’re going with this, Buffy should never question her being a vampire slayer.
Kristin: Right.
Shannon: But it did surprise me that she’s just kind of sad.
Kristin: Yeah.
Shannon: She’s just sad that her mom’s sad. But she’s not like, "I gotta look myself in the mirror." It definitely – that doesn’t exist in it, which is weird.
Kristin: Yeah, there’s not as much introspection as you would think. As we’ve seen in past episodes.
Shannon: There’s just not time in it for where the story’s going, but yeah, it surprised me. On a rewatch.
Jenny: There wasn’t even enough time to explain half of the things that happened in the episode.
Shannon: Yeah, exactly.
Kristin: Yeah. Ted. That’s it. That’s all I’ve got.
Shannon: Wait, I actually have one more thing. Remember when they go to his house and it’s, like, in the hatch? Down the hatch?
Kristin and Jenny: Yeah yeah yeah.
Shannon: How the hell did they get all that furniture down there? The hatch is barely the size of a person! [laughter]
Kristin: Oh yeah!
Shannon: There’s no exterior door. The first time we see that couch, I was like, how’d they get the couch through that hatch? [laughter] Did they build it around – wait, what’s happening here?
Kristin: Yeah, and it’s almost made to seem like the building was built around that underground department, you know?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And we only found that, thanks to Cordelia. I just want to point that out.
Jenny: It’s like, does the rug not go with the decor or is there no decor to speak of?
Kristin: Well, that’s what she means. She means...
Jenny: Maybe.
Kristin: I’m a Cordelia apologist.
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Shannon: Sorry sorry sorry sorry. [laughter]
Kristin: I mean, I was kinda into the apartment, I’m not gonna lie. I kinda like the 50s vibe going on down there.
Jenny: You want to get an underground, no windows place?
Kristin: Yeah! With four dead wives in the closet.
Jenny: Mmm.
Shannon: See you guys never! [laughter]
Kristin: You won’t come over to do the podcast anymore when we move to our bunker?
Shannon: Oh okay, that’s alright. I’m okay. I’m gonna stay in, I gotta wash my hair.
Jenny: Uh-huh, yes.
Shannon: Can I just talk about the second to last thing that Ted says –
Kristin: Please.
Shannon: Is [impersonates Ted] "Want a little gravy with that?!" [laughter] His malfunctioning asides are so great. It’s such a – I wish that this was – I wish I had read this as a comic book.
Kristin: Mmm.
Shannon: This episode is a perfect comic book.
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Shannon: It really is, but those bits. Like, [Ted impression] "Want a little gravy with that?" I’m really just sad that, you know, I never made that joke at work on Westworld. And then also sad for myself ‘cause if I had, no one would have gotten it. I would have been like, [nerd voice] "That’s what John Ritter says when he malfunctions." People would be like, "Take Shannon back to her cage." [laughter]
Kristin: Not to keep bringing it back to this full circle but I really can’t get over the brilliance of you, having at age 13 called this the Westworld episode. And having known that, like, how did you know?
Shannon: Well, my dad’s a software designer and we watched all kinds of sci-fi.
Kristin: Was your dad Ted?!
Jenny: [simultaneously] Is your dad a robot!?
Shannon: My dad is... Ted.
Kristin: Complicated.
Shannon: He worked for IBM, actually. But yeah, he showed me the movie. We watched all kinds of stuff like that. We watched The X-Files. All the books that he gave me to read when I was like, "I want to read grown-up books" when I was in 5th, 6th grade. Whenever you start asking about stuff like that, they were all Michael Crichton books.
Jenny: Hell yeah.
Shannon: The first grown-up book I read was The Andromeda Strain.
Kristin: Wow.
Shannon: It wasn’t weird to me that I knew these movies. It was weirder to me that that’s not what other people’s dads were showing them. My dad’s very young too. But yeah, Westworld. It is really the Westworld Buffy episode, truly.
Kristin: Truly.
Jenny: The most.
Shannon: He’s the Yul Brynner. What if Buffy’s mom dated the malfunctioning robot from Westworld?
Kristin: What if there was a slayer in Westworld, what would happen?
Shannon: Also if I would’ve been old enough to really appreciate, by the way, what Westworld was as a genre movie – it really was such an awesome movie way before it’s time. I would’ve, I think, had much more of an affinity for this episode. And I think that’s why Joss… Joss wrote this episode. There really is a great – it’s really cool.
Kristin: Yeah.
Shannon: It just doesn’t fit in the world the way… it feels like it’s a passion project.
Jenny: Right.
Shannon: And I like that.
Kristin: Which is kind of amazing. I mean, I like that view of it too, is that you have the ability to take these stories in different directions and explore things and have fun with them.
Shannon: Yeah, it’s like, I’d want to make the Beetlejuice episode, you know what I mean? I do get it.
Kristin: Totally! Well.
Jenny: Well.
Shannon: This was fun.
Kristin: This was the best.
Jenny: It’s been fantastic!
Shannon: Guys, thanks for having me. It’s been a treat.
Jenny: Thanks for being with us.
Kristin: Thank you, you are always welcome here if you’d like to talk about any other episodes. They do not need to always include robots.
Shannon: Okay. Thank you so much for saying that. [laughter] Sorry sorry sorry sorry sorry.
Kristin: I’m so sorry.
Jenny: Everyone who’s listening, you’ve already seen Season 1 of Westworld but go back and watch it a second time, please.
Kristin: It really merits at least a second viewing, if not a third.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: It’s a show that I think really gets better with additional viewings, yeah.
Jenny: It improves with multiple viewings. Hell yeah. Shannon, where can people find you on the internet if they just want to absorb your social media presence?
Shannon: I’m @shannonwoodward on the twitter. It’s 90% politics, 10% jokes. So just warning you. Don’t –
Kristin: A lot of smashing the patriarchy happening over there.
Shannon: Yeah, there’s definitely a lot of that, yeah.
Jenny: Oh, hell yeah!
Shannon: I like to slay trolls. Much like Buffy slays vampires. [laughter]
Jenny: Yeah, you go hard on the trolls.
Shannon: Listen, sometimes you gotta teach the teenage kids how to deal with bullies. And I think to some extent, it’s the only reason why I keep doing it. You just gotta hang people with their own dumb, hateful words.
Kristin: Mm-hmm.
Shannon: You know, like, I’m not mean to them, I just let them hang in public.
Kristin: Yep.
Shannon: And you know, it’s kind of the best way to deal with a bully. A lot of kids write at me sometimes and they say, like, they learn how to talk to people in a certain way. As annoying as it is, I truly keep doing it because of those kids.
Kristin: Yeah.
Shannon: And because I slightly enjoy it. But you know.
Kristin: So follow Shannon Woodward on twitter.
Jenny: Yeah, thanks for making the world a better place in a variety of ways.
Shannon: Oh, thanks, guys!
Kristin: Yeah. Wait, Shannon can you talk about… ‘cause you work with some really awesome projects too, that are lifting women up.
Shannon: Oh yeah, I’m also part of a women’s reproductive health organization called A is For. And you can follow us on @aisfororg on twitter or aisfor.org. We basically – we raise money for various women’s reproductive health organizations, some of them smaller and we give them direct donations. All kinds of really interesting women’s health. People who provide law services for pregnant teens or – you know all kinds of things like that. Anyway, if you’re interested in that, please check us out.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Hell yeah.
Kristin: Very important stuff.
Shannon: Thanks.
Kristin: Thank you for doing that too.
Shannon: Aw, thanks
Jenny: Listeners, thanks so much for listening! I’m Jenny Owen Youngs and when I’m not watching Buffy I’m making music. You can learn more about me and listen to some of those songs at www.jennyowenyoungs.com/buffering and you can give me a shout at Twitter @jennyowenyoungs.
Kristin: And I’m Kristin Russo you can find me on twitter @kristinnoeline [she spells it out]. You can also learn about the work that I do with LGBTQ communities, as well as their families and educators over on my website www.kristinnoeline.com. Those organizations that I run are Everyone is Gay and My Kid is Gay. And just so you know, something that I don’t talk about often, is that I also wrote a book. It’s called This is a Book for Parents of Gay Kids. And I don’t know if you know what it’s about, but it is a book that is a Q&A guide for parents, family members, educators, anyone really who is in the orbit of any LGBTQ person. It tackles sexuality, gender, coming out, all of those things. It’s very useful and you probably know someone who could use it. [whispers] It might be you.
Jenny: It’s a great book.
Kristin: Thanks, Jenny.
Jenny: You’re welcome. You can always find out about any upcoming Buffering events that might be headed down the pike and you can also find information about my events and Kristin’s events all hubbed in the convenient location of www.bufferingthevampireslayer.com under the Events tab. You can follow us on twitter @bufferingcast or drop us an email at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin: Yeah, what about Facebook? What about poor Facebook?
Jenny: Oh my gosh, facebook.com/bufferingcast!
Kristin: Goodness!
Jenny: Heavens.
Kristin: You can also support our podcast and this work, it is a thing. It’s a serious thing that we’re –
Jenny: A real thing.
Kristin: A real thing. And you know what else is serious? Is how many of you support it. Our Patreon page is over at patreon.com/bufferingcast and you can give at the dollar, $5 or the $10 level and so many of you do. Thank you so much for supporting us.
Jenny: Thank you so much!
Kristin: We know it’s fun, too, for you. A lot of the rewards are really fun. You can get the songs in advance, before we release the album at the end of the season. You get special Q&A videos, you get Buffy Watches. There’s a lot of fun times over there. Plus, it’s a fun community.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: There’s a lot of little chatter, a little private chatter happening in the Patreon land.
Jenny: It’s very sweet.
Kristin: To those of you who support already, thank you so much. And to those of you who are just finding out, hey, come on over. Help support our work.
Jenny: Please.
Kristin: You can also support us by going on over to iTunes and leaving a positive review, if you have positive things to say. If you have negative things to say, you know, maybe just shoot us an email privately.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: [laughs] And of course, as always, you can go on over to bufferingthevampireslayer.com, click on Shop and get yourself some fun vampire themed goodies. Or patriarchy themed. [laughter] You know, same diff. Shannon, will you please howl out with us?
Jenny: Till next time –
Everyone: Awoooo [Jenny performing "Ted" off the album "Songs from Season Two" by Buffering the Vampire Slayer] Here lies Ted Ted is dead May he rest In little pieces Scraps all heaped up In little pieces to the sky Here lies Ted No tears shed He always said You take no malarky And he had no heartbeat In his chest Here lies Ted The evidence Of four ex-wives Found in a closet In his apartment Underground
NOTES: [whistling] Here lies Ted May he rest In deep distress And never call me Little lady Ever again
Jenny: Oh hey guys, you’re still here. During the editing phase of this episode we realized that we neglected to give out a Sexual Tension Award.
Kristin: [gasps]
Jenny: How embarrassing.
Kristin: How embarrassing.
Jenny: But don’t worry!
Kristin: Don’t worry, we’re still here!
Jenny: And we still have an award.
Kristin: We thought maybe it could go to Buffy and Angel, they had that whole hand wrap scene.
Jenny: Meh
Kristin: But really
Jenny: We know where the tension is!
Kristin: We know where the tension is and it’s between Xander and that damn pizza.
Jenny: Yeah Xander and the mini pizzas.
Kristin: Yeah
Jenny: A tale as old as time.
Kristin: Mhm
Jenny: Sometimes you just lock eyes with someone, or some pizza across the room [laughter] and you just know that they’re the one.
Kristin: There was this beautiful ad in Brooklyn at this pizzeria I used to walk by all the time that was just a lady holding a pizza. She was holding it two inches above her head. It was like she took the bite with the pizza parallel to her mouth and then raised the pizza up a couple inches so that the cheese was pulling down.
Jenny: What a weird…
Kristin: She was making out with the pizza is what I’m trying to say.
Jenny: Ohhh! So you’re no stranger to sexual tension between a person and pizza
Kristin: I’m no stranger and the poster is definitely from the 1980’s so what I’d also like to say is Xander is not the first person to have sexual tension with pizza.
Jenny: No, he’s not the pioneer. The pizza love pioneer.
Kristin: Huh-uh. There were many that came before him. Xander and the pizza—
Jenny: Congratulations!
Kristin: — congratulations to you both.
Jenny: Bye