Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 4.10: Hush
Jenny: Today’s episode is brought to you by Krave. Made with tender, gourmet cuts of meat and elevated yet simple, all-natural ingredients, Krave jerky is a great source of protein that’s low in fat and gluten free, not to mention, the range of flavors is bold and imaginative, like my personal favorite right now, the Black Cherry Barbecue pork. Yeah! They’ve also got a Garlic Chili Pepper beef flavor, if you want to snack and also repel vampires at the same time! Just go to kravejerky.com and get 20% off when you use the code ‘buffy’.
Kristin: Today’s episode was also brought to you by Nations Photo Lab. Need a gift that won’t be regifted? You can create a Buzz Book, the new, soft-cover photo book by Nations Photo Lab. Relive the memories you don’t want to forget; that time your whole town lost the ability to speak, that trip you took to visit your sexy librarian friend where you saw a monster through the window, or that time you realized your boyfriend was a secret commando at the same moment that he realized that you were the Chosen One. All you have to do is fill the pages with your favorite photos, it’s that easy to make something truly memorable. Make every moment matter, even the scary ones. Head to nationsphotolab.com/buzzbooks and use the code ‘Buffy’ for your free Buzz Book. That’s nationsphotolab.com/buzzbooks and all you need to do is use the code ‘Buffy’ and you get a free book.
NOTES: [CHIME]
Kristin: Oh hey there, it’s Kristin. How are you doing? Are you ready for ‘Hush’? I have just a few items of news. Jenny has unfortunately lost her voice, so I’m here by myself. She’s traveling. She hasn’t actually lost her voice. But you know, it seemed thematic at the very least. Since she’s not here I’m starting a new segment, so she has no say in whether we do it or not, ‘cause now it’s begun, called ‘Spooky News’. I’m starting this segment, I mean it is almost Halloween but also we do a show about vampires. And also, also last week two teenage girls baked the ashes of one of their grandfathers into sugar cookies and brought those cookies to school and some of the students ate them knowing that they were ash cookies and some of them ate them not knowing that they were eating ash cookies. And I can’t stop thinking about it. I want to make sure that you know about it. I understand that there’s a lot of complicated pieces of this whole story but at the end of the day I just pictured Regina George and Wednesday Addams coming together, falling in love, having a baby, raising the baby, and then this is that baby. Like, it just… baking your relative’s ashes into sugar cookies and then bringing them to school, it just needs to be in a future teen movie, I think. So that’s my vote. I also wanted to let you know that when I looked up the story just now to find out if I needed to share any other details with you, it looks like the people over at livescience.com talked to a microbiologist, Rolf Halden, the director of the Center for Environmental Health Engineering over at Arizona State University’s Biodesign Institute, who let us know that there’s actually not a health concern from eating the ashes of a human being in a cookie. So, you know, in case your interest was piqued, in case you wanted to know some of the science behind this, in the cremation process, any sort of bacteria or disease or anything like that, it’s gone. So these sugar cookies, although there’s a lot of moral questions surrounding this story, they were safe. They were not gonna hurt anybody. And I for one would really like to meet these two girls. I just want to know what the motivation was. What was the story? Where did it come from? How did it happen? You know? Anyhow, let’s get to some news relevant to Buffering the Vampire Slayer. First of all, I want to remind everyone that we now have socks, Buffering the Vampire Slayer socks, you heard me right. We also have a new t-shirt that’s like a football jersey t-shirt that says ‘Buffy forever’ on the front and ‘Summers ’01’ on the back. It’s real nice. It’s done in Sunnydale colors. And then of course we have all of the
regular things that you’re accustomed to by now: smash the demon lizard patriarchy, support your local girl gang, support your local alewife. I mean there’s a lot of support to be given out there. So you can find all of that by going to bufferingthevampireslayer.com and clicking on ‘shop.’ [sings] The holidays are approaching, not just Halloween. Ok, this is what happens when Jenny’s not here, I sing. Another thing that I want to talk to you about is that last week, our sister podcast ‘Angel on Top’ put out their episode for ‘Hero’. And listen, all of the episodes of ‘Angel on Top’ are phenomenal, and I love the show ‘Angel’, but I want to talk to you about the fact that when we get to ‘I Will Remember You’ and we turn the corner to ‘Hero’, we’re getting into some really good shit over in ‘Angel’ land. So, if you have not watched the series or you haven’t started a rewatch with us, I just want to tell you as someone who is doing it, [sings] you should do it. The episode that Brittany and Laura put out for ‘Hero’ was brilliant and beautiful and wonderful. I’m not gonna tell you too many details about it, but there are some things that are like, wow! But I don’t want to spoil them for you, so, if you have not yet gotten on the ‘Angel on Top’ train, I highly recommend getting on. Now. Two other things, not really related to trains, unless you’re going to take a train to London or to Seattle. Jenny and I will be out at the Vampire Ball in London from November 30th to December 2nd. And you can join us there. Not only can you join us, but you can join people like, I don’t know, James Marsters, Julie Benz, [sings] so many cast people from the show are gonna be there. Also from January 19th to 20th we’ll be in Seattle at PodCon where you won’t find as many actors from ‘Buffy the Vampire Slayer’, but you will find literally so many of your favorite podcasters, including us, if you like us. I mean you’re listening now so I’m hoping you like us, but time will tell. So please join us at one of those two events. Or both. Or you know what, if you’re really feeling it, join us at both. Again, that’s November 30th to December 2nd at the Vampire Ball in London and January 19th to 20th at PodCon in Seattle. Now, I am going to break a wooden box so that Jenny can get her voice back and we can get into this episode.
NOTES: [Buffering the Vampire Slayer theme plays]
Jenny: Hello and welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast where we are watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, one at a time, spoiler free. I am Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: And I am Kristin Russo and this week we’re talking about Season 4, Episode 10.
Jenny: [whispers] Hush.
Kristin: I didn’t have a plan, but I was like "maybe i’ll just never talk again."
NOTES: [laughter]
Jenny: Just like an hour and a half of a silent episode.
Kristin: Of complete silence.
Jenny: Sure.
Kristin: Stay tuned at the end of this podcast every week for an original song written by us, recapping the Buffy episode we’re discussing. And this week, we didn’t write the song, did we Jenny?
Jenny: Well, not exactly. Some of us did and some of us didn’t.
Kristin: I did not. Jenny of course did. And who did you get to work with?
Jenny: I got to write this episode’s song with friend-of-the-pod and excellent dude, Hrishikesh Hirway, who you may know from his podcast Song Exploder and The West Wing Weekly, his musical projects, The One AM Radio, and Moors, and also, oh my god, he scored Kristin’s new favorite show—
Kristin: Ah!
Jenny: Everything sucks!
Kristin: I love it so much! And I love Hrishi so much!
Jenny: He’s the best! I had the greatest time of all times making this jam with him.
Kristin: Yes and Jenny now is a great time to maybe to let you know, I know we’re going off script here, but this is a big episode, we’re gonna do a lot of things differently than we normally do and one thing that we want to tell you is that Hush is a pretty big deal. We were able to interview Doug Jones. We were able to interview Camden Toy. Those are the two lead Gentlemen!
Jenny: [high pitched squealing]
Kristin: Not only that but we also sat down with Hrishi. I talked to you both about the creation of this song and some of the really rad shit that you did. Not only that but we also have Kate Leth here with us this week—
Jenny: Thank god!
Kristin: — doing an ASMR fashion watch. Jenny was going to explain to me what ASMR actually is. I get it’s like… sex for your ears? Is that what it is?
Jenny: That is… I, I—
Kristin: No?
Jenny: I feel like the ASMR community might not like that?
Kristin: I have no idea! That’s just what I perceived.
Jenny: Let’s not look it up. Let me just try to explain it to you.
Kristin: Ok, great.
Jenny: [whispering] It’s people talking really quietly.
Kristin: Oh.
Jenny: [whispering] And sometimes they’re like making noises. [Back at full volume] Like crinkly noises or brushes on microphones—
Kristin: And it’s satisfying
Jenny: — all of the stuff that makes your scalp tingle and makes you relax and stuff.
Kristin: Right. So why is sex for your ears not accurate? It seems accurate, still, to me.
Jenny: Ok, I’m open to that I just don’t want to offend anyone.
Kristin: Pleasure for your ears. So we had so much content and Jenny and I have like 400 pages of notes to talk to you about—
Jenny: Naturally.
Kristin: Because it’s fucking ‘Hush’. So we’re actually gonna do two episodes.
Jenny: Ahh!
Kristin: I know. Not one, but two. We’re gonna do our regular ‘Hush’ discussion of the episode, with Kate and with a snippet of our interview with Doug Jones. But then next week for Halloween…awoo! Sorry a little early awoo here. But next week we’re gonna do the full interview with Doug, the full interview with Camden, the interview with Hrishi, and the second version of the song, which you’ll learn about it, you’ll get there.
Jenny: Yeah yeah yeah.
Kristin: We really should get back on script for goodness sake.
Jenny: Yes. Yes yes.
Kristin: One thing I want to say after letting you know about the song that we write every week is that if you haven’t started listening to our ‘Angel’ podcast, ‘Angel on Top’, hosted by Brittany Ashley and Laura Zak, [sings] what are you doing?
Jenny: If you’re waiting for an invitation, this is your invitation.
Kristin: It is, and last week their episode was ‘Hero’ which is a fucking incredible episode of Angel. Shit in Angel is really starting to pick up the pace.
Jenny: Yeah it’s getting intense over there.
Kristin: You might wanna jump on that wagon.
Jenny: Get on that.
Kristin: Get on over there.
Jenny: [laughter] Wow! Shall we proceed? ‘Hush’ was written and directed by Joss Whedon with cinematography by Michael Gershman and original score work by Christophe Beck. It originally aired on December 14th 1999. Just three days—
Kristin: Thank you!
Jenny: Before Kristin turned 19.
Kristin: Thank you! You’re not the only one with a birthday around here! Goddamnit!
Jenny: True.
Kristin: This is the one with The Gentlemen, let’s just…
Jenny: This is the one with The Gentlemen.
Kristin: This is the one with Tara.
Jenny: This is the one with that wild vending machine. This is the one—
Kristin: With the overhead projector!
Jenny: Oh my god! [suggestive] This is the one where Olivia’s back in town.
Kristin: Aw yeah! But according to boring IMDB, this is the one where "When everyone in Sunnydale loses their voice, the Scooby gang must silently solve the mystery of the monsters who stole their ability to speak." This is the one about communication. This is the one about sex and love.
Jenny: [two short breaths out]
Kristin: This is the one where Buffy kisses Riley—
Jenny: For the first time, in a dream, and also for the first time IRL.
Kristin: Yes, and also they get some theme music! Ok we haven’t even…
Jenny: Yeah yeah yeah.
Kristin: I’m getting ahead of myself because I am, as you can tellJenny and Kristin: Very excited!
Kristin: So why don’t we just jump right in?
Jenny: Yeah yeah, I also just want to let everyone listening know that in preparation for this, I took regular notes on a regular watch of this episode like 5 times in the last few weeks—
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: — because working with Hrishi and also preparing for this and I also have spent some time with the director’s commentary so I’m gonna be interjecting small bits of what Joss has to say about the episode in the director’s commentary on the DVD special features.
Kristin: Yeah yeah, we did a lot more research. I also read a bunch of articles, I sort of combed through things. We wanted to make sure that we were catching all that we could catch because this is one of the best episodes of the entire series. It’s regaled… is that the right word?
Jenny: Mhm.
Kristin: Regaled as one of the top episodes of the series.
Jenny: Oh wait no no no, it’s not, you regale someone with a story, a thrilling retelling of something that happened.
Kristin: Oh what is it? It’s a renowned—
Jenny: Renowned! Yes!
Kristin: It’s a renowned episode yes, but it’s recognized maybe?
Jenny: Sure.
Kristin: Recognized worldly, wildly, worldly, uh…
Jenny: [laughs] What just happened? Are you ok?
Kristin: Yes. Widely, it’s widely recognized as one of the t op episodes of Buffy and in my memory, of course I’ve only seen it through once, the series, but in my memory I think ‘Hush’ is my second favorite episode of all of them. My first favorite being an episode in season 5.
Jenny: Mhm!
Kristin: Take your guesses. So all that to say, this is some serious shit. This was the only episode of Buffy nominated for an Emmy for writing.
Jenny: Hell yeah!
Kristin: Which is doubly brilliant, because there’s how many minutes of… the majority of the episode has no dialogue.
Jenny: So, we open [laughter] Ah yes it’s time to go back to the Psych 101 lecture hall where Professor Walsh is doing this whole language versus communication thing and she’s like "mm need a volunteer, Buffy".
Kristin: This episode is crafted in every way brilliantly, the first lines of the episode where obviously we’re in a dream sequence here and I think this might be my number two dream sequence, number one being of course Faith, Buffy, and the cat.
Jenny: Oh hell yeah!
Kristin: But I think it’s done very powerfully, it makes me very uncomfortable, but I think that’s the point.
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: And it opens on Walsh saying "Talking about communication, talking about language, that’s not the same thing. The thoughts and experiences that we don’t have a word for" she sort of talks about the moment that you realize an idea before you put it into words is the biggest, most powerful thing. It’s really poignant and it really sets us up. There are a few things that set us up for what this episode is about which is kind of that, that talking isn’t necessarily the best way to communicate, or sometimes when we have the ability to speak, we don’t communicate.
Jenny: Right. Right. Right. This is not about communication, but can we just talk really quickly about what Buffy is wearing in this scene?
Kristin: Yeah we can.
Jenny: I wrote down like "what the hell is up with this?" She’s got an asymmetrical shirt and a matching silken cuff.
Kristin: Bracelet.
Jenny: This is maybe not the most insightful thing but in the commentary track Joss refers to it as "Flintstone-looking shirt, Pebbles and Bamm-Bamm".
Kristin: [laughs] I mean it is.
Jenny: Yeah it totally looks like pre-sewing machines.
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah they were just like "cut that and uh stitch it up".
Jenny: Fashioning things to wrap around your body from the turquoise animal that you hunted and killed.
Kristin: Right right right. So, Professor Walsh is like "Buffy why don’t you come and…lie down on my desk".
Jenny: Yes! You know when you start college you know eventually you’re gonna hear that sentence "lie down on my desk". Like, what?
Kristin: And then she looks at Riley and she says "be a good boy" and then Buffy says "if I kiss you it’ll make the sun"— no Riley says—
Jenny: Riley says.
Kristin: —"If I kiss you it’ll make the sun go down" and my biggest question is what the fuck is going on with Buffy? In Buffy’s subconscious, obviously we’re getting to the prophetic part of the dream, but before we get to the prophetic part of the dream—
Jenny: Love is inextricably intertwined with darkness. Or maybe [deeper voice] passion.
Kristin: Yeah, but why is Walsh being sexy in her daydream, night dream, sleeping day dream?
Jenny: I think that maybe you’re interpretation is that Walsh is being sexy. I think that Walsh is being simultaneously evocative narrator—
Kristin: I don’t know, this gave me like Secretary vibes, you know? Like [suggestive] "go file that paper".
Jenny: Eww. Ahh.
Kristin: And we’re not yucking anyone’s yum but I think because it was Walsh.
Jenny: It’s just from a professorial…
Kristin: It made me feel uncomfortable. I felt in Buffy’s dream, Walsh was real attracted to Buffy and Riley making out.
Jenny: Good gravy.
Kristin: You didn’t get that?
Jenny: No I just thought it was all illustrative.
Kristin: I guess my mind is in the gutter.
Jenny: Well, or I’m just oblivious.
Kristin: Don’t worry Jenny because we’re gonna turn the corner into some Freddy Krueger shit in this dream.
Jenny: Uh-huh uh-huh.
Kristin: "Can’t even shout, can’t even cry, The Gentlemen are coming" sounds a lot like "one, two Freddy’s coming for you".
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Also sung by small girls with bleach blonde hair.
Jenny: Totally.
Kristin: You know I like to punch up a Freddy reference when I can, and that’s what’s happening here. Just very, very Freddy. Which is, of course, as we’ll talk about The Gentlemen, this whole episode is fairy tale based and I feel like Freddy Krueger is rooted in a very similar…
Jenny: It’s sort of the intersection of fairy tale and urban legend, Freddy Krueger.
Kristin: Right, exactly.
Jenny: So yes, she’s like staring this girl down who’s singing this creepy song, holding this weird little wooden box and then Riley puts his hand on her shoulder but then when she turns—
Kristin: Dun dun dun.
Jenny: [screams]
Kristin: Oh you’re right, you know what’s funny? When I took my notes I was like "Oo this is the first time we see The Gentlemen’s feet" and "Oo this is the first time we see The Gentlemen’s face" but that’s outside of her dream. I forgot that we see the face in her dream first.
Jenny: Right, mhm.
Kristin: So we see the face of Doug Jones.
Jenny: Nice.
Kristin: Then Buffy wakes up, because of course, it’s terrifying and that’s kind of what happens at the scariest part of a dream, unless you’re in ‘Nightmare on Elm Street’ and then you die.
Jenny: Right right right.
Kristin: But if you’re not in ‘Nightmare on Elm Street’ you wake up.
Jenny: You wake up and your friend’s make fun of you because you were sleeping in class.
Kristin: Yes, Willow’s making fun of Buffy and then they go out into the hall and Riley’s making fun of Buffy and Willow’s like "gotta go do a thing".
Jenny: Yeah, smooth.
Kristin: In Willow’s entire life she has never thought of one possible reason for her to leave. [laughter] Like ever, she’s always just like "gotta go… do a thing." It’s like you have all these mess ups you’d think at one point in her life—
Jenny: You’d just come up with one story.
Kristin: One! Gotta go file my nails. Gotta go change my shoelaces. Gotta go—
Jenny: Study at the library.
Kristin: Tie dye my shirt.
Jenny: Ok.
Kristin: I don’t know, I’m just spitballing here. So Willow turns into flirt detective.
Jenny: [sings in the style of Detective Angel jingle] Detective Willow.
Kristin: She’s hiding behind a fucking notebook that’s opened to see what’s happening.
Jenny: Dude, it’s a lot. Dude.
Kristin: It’s a lot, it’s really funny. And I just want to say that the level of sexting, it’s not sexting cause they’re not texting, but I don’t know why Riley and Buffy’s conversation made me think of sexting.
Jenny: Sulking, sulkxing?
Kristin: Oh like walking? Like sexy walking?
Jenny: Talking.
Kristin: [laughs] But like, I’m sorry Riley’s like "was I in your dream?" and Buffy’s like "yeah" and he’s like [suggestive] "is that right?"
Jenny: Oh my god, yeah.
Kristin: She’s like [suggestive] "you had a cameo, more like a feature role" and I’m like get a—
Jenny: And he’s like "romantic lead?"
Kristin: It’s just pretty hot and heavy for hallway conversation.
Jenny: For two people who can’t get it together to fucking kiss in the next scene.
Kristin: [laughs] Exactly.
Jenny: It’s a lot.
Kristin: Exactly and we hit the theme a few times in the episode a few times before they lose their voices, we hit it with Buffy and Riley first, then we hit it with what, Xander and Anya?
Jenny: Mhm mhm.
Kristin: And then we hit it with somebody else.
Jenny: We’ll get there.
Kristin: I think Willow and Tara? In the Wicca group.
Jenny: Oh, yeah yeah yeah.
Kristin: We’re seeing illustrated that words are not necessarily helping people in this episode get to where they need to get to. And we see it happen the first time here with Riley and Buffy where they’re, of course, keeping a major secret from each other. He doesn’t know she’s the slayer. She doesn’t know he’s GI Joe.
Jenny: GI Joe!
Kristin: So they go out and, I don’t even know what happened.
Jenny: Oh she’s all like "patrolling, I mean petroleum" and he’s all like "grading papers" and they’re maybe gonna kiss and then she’s like "what papers?"
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: "What papers are you grading? We had finals already." Whatever, they’re lying to each other. It’s a whole thing. Listen, I need to just go back for one second because we didn’t talk about when they actually kiss—
Kristin: Oh, in the dream.
Jenny: In the dream. Go back if you will and just observe how big Marc Blucas’ hand is—
Kristin: Oh brother!
Jenny: — on Sarah Michelle Gellar’s body. He basically could like… he could dunk with her. [laughter] His hands are so big on her tiny body, the end. Thank you for listening.
Kristin: There’s probably a fanfic that involves Buffy being dunked.
Jenny: [laughter] Oh [uncomfortable noise] backpedal, backpedal, backpedal.
Kristin: [laughs] I’m glad we went there though. This scene ends with Buffy basically tangling herself in her words, them being awkward, and not kissing which was about to happen and I’m kinda glad they didn’t. It just didn’t seem like a great place for your first kiss. It seemed like a very 7th grade place for your first kiss.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Right outside of a classroom.
Jenny: You need some mood lighting.
Kristin: Yeah, just a little bit.
Jenny: I just want to pop in here with some commentary from Joss. Right around this point in the episode he’s talking about how he outlined the whole episode but he didn’t… even though he knew all the plot points he didn’t know what it was about emotionally or at the human core or whatever and he started talking about once he actually started writing and figuring out the whole "oh when people stop talking they start communicating la la la la." He said something very specific that I just want to repeat that I thought was a cool sentence. He said, "As soon as you say something you’ve eliminated every other possibility of what you might be talking about."
Kristin: Ah! That’s like basically what Walsh is saying.
Jenny: Yeah, totally!
Kristin: The moment that you have the thought, before it becomes a word, is so much more powerful than the word.
Jenny: Than when you try to… effectively communicate it.
Kristin: Which is probably why poetry was invented, right Jenny?
Jenny: Oh. my. god.
Kristin: Just saying.
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: And music! There’s still truth in the fact that before you speak it, it’s probably more powerful than it is in any form, in your mind, in your imagination, the reason why I tend to always love a book more than the movie created from the book. Because you know, what I make in my mind, although that does involve more than reading off the paper, but it’s like the reverse. I read the words off the paper and in my mind it becomes something so large.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: I sort of can’t ever be communicated or contained in a form. Our minds are more powerful than anything we can speak.
Jenny: Totally and once you see Daniel Radcliffe, your brain is like aha this is Harry Potter! Forever will Daniel Radcliffe and Harry Potter be intertwined in my mind. Some corner of the thing which previously existed in your imagination has become cemented.
Kristin: Like blunted, or well right and the other pieces are sort of tamped down to fit within Daniel Radcliffe.
Jenny: Sure sure.
Kristin: It makes me think of, and not to get too, I mean we have so much to talk about here but the first time I had that experience, and I know we’re sort of a little removed from what the actual concept is here, but I read Misery as a kid and I was so scared by that book that I threw it across the room a couple of times while reading.
Jenny: You love throwing books across the room.
Kristin: Well, I used to throw Jenny’s books across the room but that was just for fun. [laughter] It was funny. It was funny when she was reading Game of Thrones to pick the book out of her hands, throw it across the room, and laugh.
Jenny: Yeah, funny—
Kristin: And see her get annoyed.
Jenny: —[sarcastic] that’s the word that I would pick, uh-huh.
Kristin: But this was a fear throw and I think it was my most visceral experience with a book up ‘til that point, I was like 13 or 14 or something.
Jenny: Mhm.
Kristin: And then I watched the movie and I was so excited to watch the movie and I was so let down. And the movie is so… respected—
Jenny: The movie rocks.
Kristin: Kathy Bates, come on. It just couldn’t hold a candle to the fear that I had instilled within myself in my own imagination.
Jenny: Totally, totally. Hey speaking of poetry from a minute ago.
Kristin: [laughs] Uh-huh.
Jenny: Don’t you just love watching Giles recite this poem from Buffy’s dream?
Kristin: Also Giles’ desk is in the middle of the room and I—
Jenny: [yells] Dude! I know!
Kristin: —I didn’t ever notice it until this episode.
Jenny: I don’t know if ever has been.
Kristin: No it has because the camera always gets it from all angles. We’ve definitely had the ability to realize this before this episode, I think.
Jenny: Mmm. I blame them. I think they’ve moved things around.
Kristin: But like it’s also kinda cool to have a desk in the middle of the room.
Jenny: [skeptical] Is it?
Kristin: Yeah! I think so, it’s a little centerpiece.
Jenny: Yeah, I don’t know.
Kristin: The heart of Giles’ apartment is his desk where he works.
Jenny: Anyway, this is my favorite episode of ‘The Odd Couple’.
Kristin: [laughs] Yes!
Jenny: Love seeing these two roommates from different worlds working it out.
Kristin: Spike crumbling up Weetabix in his blood for the texture.
Jenny: So gross.
Kristin: Sick! Sick sick sick. But also hilarious.
Jenny: Then we’ve got Xander and Anya.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Rollin’ up.
Kristin: "You don’t listen to what I say," this is shitty. This is actually where we’re gonna get our first patriarchy jingle, I believe. Because Anya’s like, "You don’t listen to what I say, you don’t care about how I feel" and fucking Xander says, "You really did turn into a real girl."
Jenny: Yeah, pick your moments dude.
NOTES: [THE PATRIARCHY jingle plays] The patriarchy! [thunder clap, evil laughter]
Kristin: But we’re coming right out of this patriarchy moment to Anya. Anya is not thwarted by this bullshit and she comes right back to him and says, "See you make jokes about my pain".
Jenny: Uh-huh uh-huh.
Kristin: She’s fucking on it, cause she’s Anya. But these two, this is kinda like number two hitting it over the head, their words are not expressing what they feel inside. Well, that’s not true, Anya is expressing very clearly.
Jenny: Well yeah, Anya is kinda like the most effective communicator, in a way, or like the most willing communicator, because newly human she’s basically like a baby.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Except she has a—
Kristin: A hot baby. [laughs]
Jenny: A hot, hot baby. God dammit, she’s like an infant in that her emotions are all brand… they feel brand new to her because it’s been a thousand years since she was a human. She’s just totally riding every single wave that happens and she has no reservations and she has the ability to use language to communicate, versus a baby who just cries.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: You dumb baby.
Kristin: [laughs] We take Anya’s forthcoming speech to the next level when she walks inside, she’s like, "All you care about is lots of orgasms" and Xander goes into his own turtle shell. A turtle shell of his own making. And Spike is like, "Tell me more".
Jenny: [as Spike] Go on, I want to hear more about Xander’s orgasms.
Kristin: I don’t even know where the sex arrows are hitting in this scene because then Xander says to Giles, "My mom said you wanted me to swing by," and I say "Uhm what!?!" [excited] So does this mean that Giles and Xander’s mother are still in communication since the raspberry fruit punch?
Jenny: I think that Mrs. Harris just picked up the phone when Giles called and Xander wasn’t home and she took a message.
Kristin: You don’t think Giles is like [suggestive] "It’s Mr. Giles, missing your raspberry fruit punch".
Jenny: I don’t think he his. I think that Mr. Giles is probably preoccupied with his incoming visitor which he is about to tell us about. But before he does I want to inject one more piece of commentary.
Kristin: Uh-huh.
Jenny: So Joss is talking over the scene where Xander and Anya are having this whole conversation like before they go in talking about how they’re not communicating with each other even though they’re saying a bunch of words, la la la.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: And, he just stops in the middle of a sentence and is like "Oh hey, they’re having a weird hair phase" .
Kristin: Oh wow.
Jenny: Which, accurate.
Kristin: Actually Anya and Willow are really starting to find the same hair groove at this point. They’ve got very similar hair.
Jenny: Yeah I think the lines on that chart, on that graph, they’ve met and now they’re gonna—
Kristin: Diverge.
Jenny: —diverge once more.
Kristin: So of course Anya, Giles says, "Yo, Spike is staying at your place" and—
Jenny: And Xander’s like "What?" and Spikes’ like "What?" and Anya’s like [yells] "What?" I love that they stacked it in order of indignance.
Kristin: Yeah, totally and fucking Giles is like "I have a friend coming" and Anya’s like "An orgasm friend?"
Jenny: And it’s like, yeah.
Kristin: Yes. O for Olivia. O for orgasm.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: There it is folks. And Olivia is coming back to town!
Jenny: Uh Olivia is such a babe—ok.
Kristin: I mean Olivia is… Olivia might be the babeliest of all the babes in Sunnydale. I mean, she doesn’t live in Sunnydale.
Jenny: [sighs]
Kristin: Which is maybe why, cause she has time to center herself.
Jenny: Sure sure.
Kristin: She’s not always fighting evil. And then, this episode is just ridiculous because we cut right from Olivia the orgasm friend heading back to Sunnydale, to the Wicca group. Now when I take notes Jenny, I write "classroom," "Giles’ house," I write where the scene happens.
Jenny: Sure sure sure.
Kristin: This one got all caps "WICCA GROUP HELL YES" I got so excited that I couldn’t even contain the category, or the scene of this.
Jenny: Sure, sure.
Kristin: "We come together daughter of Gaia," yeah you fucking do!
Jenny: Oh my god!
Kristin: Yeah you do! You stupid witches. These witches make no sense, Jenny, they make no sense at all.
Jenny: I think it’s weird to even refer to them as witches.
Kristin: Right, cause they’re not. And Willow is, like us, being like, "What the fuck is this shit?" That’s the expression on her face. They’re all, "I’m gonna make an empowering lemon bundt".
Jenny: I’m so mad about it.
Kristin: First of all, oh my god, I’m sorry, I’m getting carried away. Just mow over me Jenny if you need to mow over me. I have a lot of feelings about the Wicca group. I have a lot of feelings about [louder] Tara!
Jenny: Who’s that girl with the zigzag part?
Kristin: Zig. Zag. Motherfucking part! I have a few things that I remember from the series, you know what I remember? That fucking zigzab— zab?
Jenny: Zigzab?
Kristin: That zigzab— that zigzag part! Is everything.
Jenny: Yeah, it makes an impression.
Kristin: So we see that and then the fucking Wicca group is busy making fun of alewives, Jenny! The Wicca group!
Jenny: How dare they!
Kristin: This is the epitome of some of the shitty stuff that happens in queer culture, you know what I mean?
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: I mean in any… you’re just like did you read your fuckin’…why are you in this group? Why?
Jenny: Yeah what are they all doing there? Making empowering lemon bundts, I guess.
Kristin: It’s kinda like when you go to a yoga class and the whole thing is like athletic.
Jenny: Yeah, they’re playing Britney Spears music and being like now do 20 crunches.
Kristin: And you’re like uhh...
Jenny: What that’s not…
Kristin: Did you read anything about where the foundational practice of yoga originated from? You do know that yoga is done to get us in the mindset so we can meditate? It’s not about… that’s how I feel about this Wicca group. This is how Willow feels about this Wicca group. And Tara although she really doesn’t have a way with her words is also feeling like shit about this Wicca group.
Jenny: Totally.
Kristin: Willow and Tara have a connection here, it’s their first connection.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Where they’re like, how about spells? They’re fucking so rude to Tara. Tara stutters.
Jenny: Aww.
Kristin: Tara has a stutter and also is anxious. You can just tell right out of the gates with her.
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: She’s got some stuff and the stupid other girl is just like, "Everybody be quiet, yes Tara?" and I want to take her eyeballs and yank ‘em out. Why didn’t The Gentlemen cut out that bitch’s heart is what I wanna know?
Jenny: That is a good question.
Kristin: Ooh! Sorry Jenny.
Jenny: No no you’re just, I get it, it’s very exciting. A little bit more from the commentary track, Joss talks about how he wanted to introduce a couple people in this episode who aren’t experienced in this world so we would have an audience proxy for child like terror. So we have Olivia.
Kristin: Oh!
Jenny: And we have Tara. And we’re invested in them because we see people that we care about, caring about them.
Kristin: Oo that gave me the chills.
Jenny: Uh-huh uh-huh.
Kristin: Right, they aren’t well versed demon hunters.
Jenny: Right right, he also talks about Tara being introduced here kind of like a new Willow. Because Willow has gotten so confident and is continuing to expand her power—
Kristin: And yet Amy’s still a rat.
Jenny: [yelling] De-prioritization of turning Amy back into a human is one of the biggest, most upsetting, it is a Sunnydale bombshell. It is fucked up! Who benefits? Who profits from keeping Amy a rat?
Kristin: It really is so—
Jenny: I posit that Willow benefits most from keeping Amy a rat because she is the most powerful witch in Sunnydale.
Kristin: Wow! Wow! Ok wow, this episode is getting us to so many places, I didn’t mean to derail you.
Jenny: I think about it all the time.
Kristin: [laughing] You wake up in the middle of the night and you’re like, "Why haven’t they fucking dealt with Amy?"
Jenny: Well just like watching ‘Something Blue’ four times or whatever, I was like goddammit! They’ve got her in the cage. Willow is doing more spells all the time. Giles is a fucking grown ass man who has been working with the dark arts for who knows how many decades. Somebody get that girl back to humanhood. I am pissed! Ok thank you for listening.
Kristin: So Willow’s talking, unpacking with Buffy, about the Wicca group’
Jenny: She’s like "Uh, I’d like to float something bigger than a pencil someday." Like a vending machine, perhaps?
Kristin: [laughs] Foreshadowing. Little tiny question I have here...
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: That Dingoes poster is still up on the goddamn wall.
Jenny: She. still. cares. about. Oz.
Kristin: Even after everything we witness in ‘Something Blue’, she has the poster up.
Jenny: She still cares about Oz.
Kristin: I just feel like in order for her to move on, she’s gotta take the poster down, Jenny.
Jenny: Sure, yep yep, and burn it.
Kristin: You know what my next note is?
Jenny: Uh, what?
Kristin: "Sweaty hunks for Jenny" is what I wrote down.
Jenny: [laughs] Hell yeah! That should be my next note. But instead it’s "Riley telling Forest that Buffy is special" and he says "I didn’t hear you the first 486 times." Which means this is the 487th time, which if he tells him two more times it’ll be 489 times and that will be 420 plus 69. The end.
Kristin: What the fuck just happened?
Jenny: [laughs] Hellmath?
NOTES: [HELLMATH jingle plays] Hellmath!
Kristin: Jenny that was some… some me wondering what the hell you were doing Hellmath, but thank you for it.
Jenny: You’re welcome.
Kristin: Also Forest saying to Riley "Thank god we’re pretty" and he doesn’t like Buffy, and a lot of you have written into us to be like, "Could you please talk about the fact that Forest is in love with Riley."
Jenny: [gasps]
Kristin: So.
Jenny: [gasps]
Kristin: A gasp that could only come from a girl who doesn’t read our email.
Jenny: [laughs] Why I never!
Kristin: [laughs] So I just want to put a pin in this and I think we should all watch it as the season unfolds.
Jenny: See if anything develops. Can we please talk about the Spike and Xander sleepover?
Kristin: Oh my god yes!
Jenny: Because first of all where did Xander get that amazing chair? I want it so bad.
Kristin: Good chair.
Jenny: Incredible chair.
Kristin: Great chair to be tied to.
Jenny: Second of all, he ties Spike to it all good and tight, [louder] facing his bed like three feet away! Dude why? Why? Why?
Kristin: [laughs] Also, I know Spike’s the enemy or whatever but give the dude a magazine or something. Is he just gonna sit there all night watching Xander sleep? Then we get Spike imitating Anya like, "Oh Xander!"
Jenny: Yeah yeah yeah yeah.
Kristin: I feel like Spike has one imitation of a lady and it’s always the same voice.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: My next note is "Hi Olivia, no small talk, don’t you think."
Jenny: Hell yeah, baby!
Kristin: Olivia’s like let’s get down to fucking business.
Jenny: Her accent is so great.
Kristin: Her everything is so great. And that’s really that whole scene was just for us to scream about Olivia.
Jenny: Yeah, she rocks.
Kristin: Then we go to the fucking clocktower. A whole different type of screaming will come from this location.
Jenny: Sure, yes.
Kristin: The first scene, not counting when we saw The Gentlemen in the dream, it’s now real life, the first thing we see that introduces us to them is this hand slowly moving to the wooden box, opening the box, and I’m doing it for Jenny. Jenny’s looking at me like are you out of your mind, because I can’t talk about it without doing it, but of course I can’t do it because I’m not a trained mime, but it’s so powerful.
Jenny: Yeah, it’s so great and creepy. It reminds me of the time that I got a music box for Christmas, and I was so excited, and I opened it and all of the voices in my whole town got sucked into it.
Kristin: Wow, I can’t believe you never told me this story before.
Jenny: Yeah, isn’t that wild that the same thing happened to me. It was such a caper, you know? Such a hassle to return all of the voices individually. I went door to door, it was a whole thing.
Kristin: But this is creepy shit and Doug Jones also plays a very important role in ‘Hocus Pocus’.
Jenny: Uh-huh uh-huh.
Kristin: And the way their voices are stolen visually is nearly identical to how the souls are visually stolen—
Jenny: Oh yeah.
Kristin: — in ‘Hocus Pocus’. You see this white mist be sucked out. It’s also similar to how I think Kathy was stealing Buffy’s soul.
Jenny: [gasps]
Kristin: Just a common effect in the late 90s here.
Jenny: Sure sure, they had just figured out how to do that affordably’
Kristin: Everybody was like [dude voice] "Do that ghost effect man. Do that ghost out of the mouth effect." So we see the voices of Sunnydale be stolen. We pan through many of the voices being stolen and my favorite is a post coital Giles and Olivia. We get so much Giles and Olivia post sex this episode.
Jenny: Truly.
Kristin: They fuck many times.
Jenny: Well she’s just in town for a limited time.
Kristin: And desperate times call for desperate measures.
Jenny: Oh yeah.
Kristin: It’s like a double whammy of reasons to screw.
Jenny: Sure.
Kristin: Also I just want to say that the clock tower was built specially for this scene on the lot.
Jenny: Yeah, they modified an existing house.
Kristin: Yeah, and it’s very powerful with it’s shutters, or not shutters but boards over the windows.
Jenny: Yeah and like the clock face is kinda a little too big. You would never see a clocktower actually built like that which makes it feel more like a fairy tale.
Kristin: Exactly. Do we know where… is that supposed to be on the campus? Or is it supposed to—
Jenny: I think it’s just in Sunnydale, in the town. He talks in the commentary a lot about like we see these shots that we’ve never seen. The budget for this episode must’ve been bonkers because they built out a street in a way that we’ve never seen. We always see the same little chunk of State Street all the time but they built out this whole neighborhood around the clock tower. And we’re able to see way more of a span of town at one time in this episode than ever before.
Kristin: Do you think that the clocktower continues to exist in Sunnydale or do you think that—
Jenny: It just appeared overnight.
Kristin: —Right and then like disappears—
Jenny: It kinda feels like that, right?
Kristin: — when their heads explode. Can’t wait to get there. But right it does, and maybe partially that’s because of what you’re saying, that we’ve never seen any of these angles before, so we’re like is this Sunnydale or where are we? Because we really have been seeing the same shots, similar shots, for many seasons now. And so we’re about 14 minutes into the episode when the voices get taken.
Jenny: Well well well well well.
Kristin: And we hear a few voices, but not from our Scoobies, not from people in Sunnydale, but from the news or whatever, but for the most part this is when we stop with dialogue. And also it’s where we fucking pan to The Gentlemen’s face—
Jenny: [gasps]
Kristin: — and we see that fucking smile.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: We got the chance to talk to Doug Jones. We’ve mentioned it a couple of times already. We got the chance to talk to Camden Toy. We’re gonna play for you just a little bit of the Doug Jones interview now but we’ll have a second episode next week where we’ll play the full interview with Doug, the full interview with Camden, and a special interview with Hrishi. But I want you guys to hear a little bit about this, especially this piece. Because these smiles were initially, and you can see, I’m kinda repeating what’s gonna be in the thing but you can see that the other Gentlemen, not the two leads, not Camden and Doug, but the other ones, their smiles are in their masks or whatever.
Jenny: Right right.
Kristin: But Camden and Doug, that’s their smile.
Jenny: [uncomfortable shiver noise]
Kristin: So let’s hear a little bit from the amazing, brilliant Doug Jones
NOTES: [CHIME] [Recording of interview plays]
Kristin: Doug Jones, our entire Buffering-iverse is beside themselves, literally, that you’re talking to us today, so thank you so much for taking the time out to be here with all of us.
Doug: Well thank you for that beside yourself reaction, I was not expecting that.
Kristin: Well the internet doesn’t lie and I shared with the internet that I was going to be speaking with you today and I think it’s one of our most liked tweets in all of history so that’s just a nod to how beloved your character is in the Buffyverse.
Doug: Aw that’s very kind. It’s just one episode, I was never expecting that, you know?
Kristin: Yes but what an episode. We’re in, obviously you know, season four, and people have just been waiting and waiting and waiting for us to get to ‘Hush’. The Gentlemen are notorious. They embody this silent, slow-moving horror that is the stuff of my nightmares, I think many of our nightmares. I’d love to start by talking about your physical presence which obviously you bring to so many of your roles. I thought it would be cool to maybe hear about your training in physical acting and how you learned to do what it is that you do.
Doug: Well actually my training in physical acting started with my training in acting. I never set out to be monsters in my early days. I never thought that was a career option. I was inspired by sitcoms and variety shows when I was a kid. Things that made you feel good, tap your toes, and laugh, that’s what I was after. Boy was I wrong. [laughter] Barkin’ up the wrong tree. But in college at Ball State University in Indiana I discovered the art of mime and I joined a mime troupe called Mime Over Matter, ah get it?
Kristin: [laughs] I do! I do!
Doug: O-kay. So it was that art form that really woke up my entire body to all of the visual communication that we do everyday as regular human beings who aren’t mimes. So much is communicated through our posturing, our gestures, our body language, our facial expressions. So much, that it can change our words drastically, you know? You can say, "Get out of town" in so many different ways with visuals that it can mean anything from joking to actually please get out of town, right? So I learned all that at an early age with performing with a mime troupe where words were not spoken. We did not have the luxury of verbal dialogue, we had to use visual dialogue, so that was early training. I also at Ball State University, we were the Fighting Cardinals and that meant that there was a mascot in a big bird suit and I played Charlie Cardinal at the basketball games my junior and senior year. So to manipulate a big red bird suit and make it come to life for an arena full of screaming fans was again very useful for what was to come.
Kristin: Wow from a bird suit to the scariest monster on television.
Doug: [laughs] Right? Right?
Kristin: So, how did you come to this part in particular. How did you come to Buffy? Did you audition or did they seek you out for the part having known your previous work?
Doug: Well remember this was 1999 so that’s 19 years ago and that’s back before I had much of a name in the public eye. I was known by creature effects makeup people cause I’d been already working with them for roughly 10-11 years by then but a lot of casting directors did not know who I was. Creature people did, but standard showbusiness people did not. So a casting notice was put out in the breakdowns looking for these silent Gentlemen characters on ‘Buffy the Vampire Slayer’ and my agent at the time knew of my background and knew of the creatures I had played thus far in my career and just submitted me for an audition. So I did indeed get that call, went to the audition. It was straight to call backs, so that means that the room was full of producers and Joss Whedon himself. So that was rather intimidating to walk into that. Didn’t have any script or sides to work from because it was a silent character, so kind of off the cuff in the room Joss said, "OK, I want you to pretend that someone is lying in front of you and I want you to gently and gentlemanly cut his heart out and smile as big as you can the entire time," so that’s like, huh, a little unsettling, sure. If you talk to Camden Toy ever, he was the other lead Gentleman, the two of us were the two main ones, I think there were six of us total, so there were four other Gentlemen that were featured around us but we were the two focal ones, Camden and I have similar stories of that audition. What was really a complement to both of us is that Joss liked our creepy smiles so much, as people, just as people walking in off the street he thought we both had the kind of smiles that made him get the heebie-jeebies. So he had Camden’s and my makeup redesigned. If you look at the background Gentlemen they have smiles kind of plastered in the mask of their face. He had our makeup designed so that it would actually glue down to our own lips so that we could manipulate our own smile then they put metallic dentures in our mouth so that we could use our own mouths and our own smiles because he liked ours better than the actual design that was on the outside of the masks. So that was a last-minute redo that was a huge compliment to Camden and me.
Kristin: Incredible! So, is it a compliment to be told you have a creepy smile?
Doug: In that world, absolutely, the highest compliment [laughs].
NOTES: [Recording of interview ends] [Episode resumes]
Kristin: Wow! Doug Jones thank you so much. And there is so much more of that interview including I asked him about Hocus Pocus and it’s a great story—
Jenny: Truly, oh my god.
Kristin: — it actually might be my favorite story from the whole interview. So tune in next week for that and for much more about this brilliant episode. But let’s get back into the moment by moment shall we here Jenny.
Jenny: Slayers they’re just like us, peeing in the morning.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Brushing their teeth.
Kristin: Yes, it’s true.
Jenny: Bumping into somebody in their dorm hall who’s crying and then Buffy reenters the room and Willow tries to say good morning and it starts to become clear very quickly what is going on.
Kristin: Right and I love… some of how they unpacked this just resonated so much to me. That at first they think they can’t hear, right? That sort of makes sense. I do think that if this happened that would be the first place that your mind would go. And then they slowly put it together but then there’s this incredible moment where Xander tries to call Buffy and Buffy answers the phone and is like "What an idiot!" and Xander’s on the other end of the phone like "What an idiot!"
Jenny: [laughing] Yeah.
Kristin: Part of this episode is how much those of us who can speak take for granted—
Jenny: That we can.
Kristin: — that we can.
Jenny: Mhm.
Kristin: And this is really when the score, cause you talked about Jenny, who did the score?
Jenny: Christophe Beck who scores the show always.
Kristin: Oh ok and this is just some of the most incredible scoring.
Jenny: Yeah the score is working overtime as are all of the actors on the visual front.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Everybody is working super fucking hard to pick up the slack for the lack of dialogue and knocking it out the park.
Kristin: Absolutely.
Jenny: Um I have to, before we move on to Xander and Spike I need to call something out.
Kristin: Yes, ok.
Jenny: There is a darkness in Sunnyvale that we have been watching for three and a half seasons but we have not named. That darkness is matching pajama sets. They are everywhere! They are a plague! Willow here is wearing a pair of pink with brown spot cow pajamas, I am so mad. Later a young gentlemen who’s gonna get his heart cut out is wearing a plaid matching pajama set.
Kristin: Yeah, it is a lot.
Jenny: We’ve seen many matching pajama sets but I can be silent no longer. Moving forward I will be calling out any and all matching pajama sets.
Kristin: Wow. [news alert noises]
Jenny: Imagine hooking up with a boy, a hunk.
Kristin: I can’t, possibly.
Jenny: [silly voice] Yeah oh me neither mm-ah. Imagine hooking up with a dude and going back to his dorm room and him being like "hang on let me slip into something more comfortable." [laughter] I’m a 19 year old boy hang on, here’s my fucking plaid matching pajama set. I just, I know that this was an era when matching pajama sets were more of a thing.
Kristin: I guess, I never had a pair.
Jenny: I did. I had like a bunch.
Kristin: Wow. Pot calling the kettle.
Jenny: I’m not saying that I didn’t participate, I’m just saying that moving forward we need to call this out when we see it.
Kristin: Great great great.
Jenny: Yes, thank you for listening. Ok so Xander can’t talk and he thinks Spike did it.
Kristin: Spike is just one big eye roll.
Jenny: Dude so he does this thing which I don’t know if you all know, I’m sure all of you listening from the UK know, but I didn’t know what this was until I went to the UK and did it and then found out I was doing something that was not polite. But Spike does basically a peace sign but with the back of his hand facing Xander and that is the same in the UK as giving the middle finger.
Kristin: The middle finger and I have to say it’s way easier to do than the middle finger.
Jenny: Right?
Kristin: It takes a lot of coordination to just raise your middle finger, where as these two they just…why is that? Our biology friends or whatever you have to be skilled in to understand how the body works, I think it’s biology, why is it that it’s easier to raise your pointer and your middle together than it is just to raise your middle?
Jenny: Yeah, uh imagine if to flip someone off you had to do—
Kristin: Your ring?
Jenny: — your ring finger, that feels terrible!
Kristin: The hardest one of all!
Jenny: [laughs] Wow, anyway.
Kristin: So, right, Spike is super nonchalant, he’s like "fuck off," then we cut to The Initiative, they can’t speak, they can’t speak to get clearance in the elevator.
Jenny: Ok and this like mustard gas or whatever starts pouring out of the ceiling and somehow, what are these countermeasures if they just get to the bottom of the elevator and they get out of the elevator and they’re still alive, A, and B, the sign that Professor Walsh points to, just in case there was any confusion about this point, that sign, we’ve seen that elevator open before, that sign’s never been there before.
Kristin: Oh, oh!
Jenny: It was introduced for the gag, for this episode.
Kristin: Right, right, right, that makes sense. I mean, to get a little general for a hot second that’s another part of the brilliance of this episode is that it’s so terrifying and it’s so dark and it’s so deep but it’s also full of these hilarious, and we’re gonna get to the most hilarious—
Jenny: Oh my god!
Kristin: —of all—
Jenny: One of the greatest scenes in this show’s history.
Kristin: — when we get to the overhead projector.
Jenny: [high pitched scream]
Kristin: But it’s just an incredible meld of these two genres almost that you very rarely seen hand in hand like this. At least hand in hand where the effectiveness of the terror is so in tact, it’s so present. So Riley tries to use his breath on this, and I just want to talk about that because we do see people making noises.
Jenny: Olivia gasps, for example.
Kristin: Olivia gasping and what have you and I read on a very reliable source for anything biological, IMDB. [laughter] But it sounds right, that voiceless sounds are those in which the vocal folds don’t have to vibrate. Vowels are always voiced. Some consonants are voiced, but many are not. Voiceless consonants /t, p, k/ those don’t use the voice.
Jenny: Oh they’re more tongue—
Kristin: They’re percussive, right, exactly. These sounds can be made by a person even if their vocal folds were removed or damaged. So a gasp or a sigh can also be made without using the voice. In case we had any naysayers. Somebody wrote in and said, why can’t they whisper and I could be wrong but based on my heavy research on IMDB about vocal cords it sounds like you couldn’t whisper an "o" an "a" even in whisper you couldn’t make those noises that have to come from your throat, essentially.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: Right? So ok, wow!
Jenny: Based on my inability to whisper any more quietly than I speak, I have to agree that it makes biological sense that you wouldn’t be able to whisper if you had lost your voice.
NOTES: [ad break]
Kristin: Before we get onto the next bit of this, Jenny, why don’t we hear a few words from some of our sponsors? Also, I say that every time, like, "A few words from some of our sponsors," but it’s just more of us talking about our wonderful sponsors.
Jenny: [laughs]
NOTES: [ad music plays]
Jenny: Back-to-school time means you’re always on the go, so there’s not as much time to devote to staying healthy. Thankfully, Care/of can make taking care of yourself this autumn easy with personalized vitamin and supplement packets. Whether you’re wanting to add supplements for energy, stress and sleep to your routine, or you're trying to replace all that vitamin D you’re not getting because it’s not summer anymore, or you’re trying to replace all that vitamin D you’re not getting anymore because you’re a vampire, Care/of has tons of options to match your needs, all of which get delivered right to your door in personalized, easy-to-remember, daily packs, perfect for a busy, on-the-go lifestyle. Better yet, your monthly subscription box can be easily modified at any time, so you can give your immune system a little extra love when winter rears its head. I’ve been using Care/of for a while now and I love them, it was so easy to take their personalized quiz online and just say, like, what I was looking for in a supplement and then they took the information I gave them and did some computations and then sent me a personalized kit of vitamins, just for me, which I then took and wow, felt so great! For 25% off your first month of personalized Care/of vitamins, visit takecareof.com and enter the code "Buffering". That’s takecareof.com and enter "Buffering" for 25% off your first month of personalized Care/of vitamins.
Kristin: Today’s episode was brought to you by Outdoor Voices. Outdoor Voices makes high-quality active apparel to take you from gym life to everyday life seamlessly and fashionably. Outdoor Voices clothing is engineered for performance and designed for having fun, with a fabric offered for every single type of activity. Their signature textured compression hugs, sculpts and supports as you hike, jog or slay, while their TechSweat materials wick sweat and keeps you dry, even in the cemetery. Outdoor Voices is available for all genders, whether you’re hoping to add versatile pieces to your wardrobe or looking for an activity-specific collection, like running shorts, there’s something for everyone. Their gear is available nationwide at outdoorvoices.com and in Outdoor Voices shops in select locations across the country. Outdoor Voices encourages living happier, healthier, more sustainable lives through daily exercise of any form, it’s just about getting out there. The Outdoor Voices community regularly hosts events across the country to keep you doing things and meeting new friends along the way. We got some Outdoor Voices leggings, some sports bras and some shirts and I have to say, they’re incredible. The leggings are so nice, they have a little slot for your key if you go running outside. The shirt, the shirt is my favorite, I got the long-sleeved shirt that’s made of cloud material, where it has the little thumb holes already in the long sleeved shirt, it has thumb holes! Nothing’s better than thumb holes! In all seriousness, I am really psyched about a brand that is about getting out there, about moving our bodies and that’s not about, like, a very specific way that we’re supposed to look. Yes yes yes. Thumbs up Outdoor Voices for your philosophy and also for your awesome stuff. For 20% off your first order of $100 or more, visit outdoorvoices.com/buffy and enter code "Buffy". That’s outdoorvoices.com/buffy and enter code "Buffy" for 20% off your first order of $100 or more.
Jenny: Today’s episode is also brought to you by Warby Parker, a new concept in eyewear. Contemporary eyeglasses that are extremely affordable and fashion-forward. Can’t we live in a world where glasses can be a fashion accessory and not cost as much as a plane ticket or a new iPhone? At Warby Parker, glasses start at $95, including prescription lenses with anti-glare and anti-scratch coatings. And, for every pair you buy, a pair is distributed to someone in need. Wow! I can’t stress this enough, Warby Parker makes buying glasses online easy and risk-free. If you’re someone like me, who’s like, "I need to try on glasses but don’t look at me in a public place!" Warby Parker will be so perfect for you. They have a home try on programme that allows you to order five pairs of frames, shipped directly to your door, where you can try them on in the comfort of your own home and get feedback from your friends and your family and your cat, everyone whose opinion you care about. You can try the frames for five days before sending them back using a free, prepaid return shipping label with no obligation to purchase. It’s 100% free! It’s so easy, Amy the rat could do it. I recently got some frames sent to me from Warby Parker so I could try them on privately and take selfies as needed, and it was so great, it was so much calmer than going to, I don’t know, a mall or whatever. So, if that sounds good to you, head to warbyparker.com/buffy to order your free home try-ons today. Choose the five frames you’d like to try on, mail the frames back, choose your favorite pair or pairs to have your prescription added to an order. So visit warbyparker.com/buffy to begin your free home try on experience today. Have an iPhone X? Make sure to download Warby Parker’s app where you can use their brand new feature, "Find Your Fit". "Find Your Fit" uses the iPhone X’s TrueDepth camera to map and measure key facial features. Using these measurements, "Find Your Fit" recommends approximately 12 Warby Parker frames that are likely the best fit for your face. Wow! We live in the future! The process is seamless, and only takes a few seconds, so visit warbyparker.com/buffy to begin your free home try on experience today.
NOTES: [episode resumes]
Jenny: So we start to see, on and off campus, some of the immediate social impact. We see somebody drop that glass bottle in the middle of a crowded room.
Kristin: That’s so powerful. But my question is, is that a glass bottle of Mountain Dew?
Jenny: Is it Mountain Dew? I thought it was Snapple.
Kristin: Oh, I mean, that would make sense to me. Snapple [with a hard ‘a’]. Why’d you say it like that? [mimicking Jenny] "I thought it was Snapple." [laughter] I mean that would make sense, maybe it was. We’ll call it Snapple. Somebody was super excited about those fun facts on the inside of the caps you know what I mean?
Jenny: Oh my god. So we see the bank is closed but the liquor store is very very open.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Just a quick note from Joss, the door to the liquor store that we see somebody run inside of, there’s nothing behind that. That guy just runs in behind a door that leads nowhere and then hides.
Kristin: [laughs] But this is, I think that the effectiveness of portraying what happens to a town in a state of chaos, not to get too ahead of myself because oh boy I can’t wait til we hear the computer that Professor Walsh has say "In a state of chaos." But you know when a switch is flipped and the reality you take for granted is gone, certain things happen. Jenny and I are both people who were either in New York City or adjacent to New York City during 9/11 so I think have some first hand experience. I know I do having been in Queens. Some of the things you see unfold in a city or a town when something happens that changes everything. And we see here that the whole town is in this sort of tragic state, everybody’s moving slowly, everything’s different, things are closed, there’s a religious group of course that’s united to be together in that sense, and this is the one that got me the most is that in record time there’s a man selling message boards.
Jenny: Dude.
Kristin: This is real life, like this shit is for real, that is exactly what the fuck would happen.
Jenny: A) what’s wild is though this episode came out before 9/11, the commentary was recorded after.
Kristin: Really?
Jenny: He immediately sites the American flag decals and all that stuff that began. This whole cottage industry sprung up, suddenly everyone needed one of those. And also I posit, now I know we don’t hear this guy speak, but I feel like his outfit and his demeanor and the way that he puts money in his pocket makes me feel like he is part of that vibrant community of Brooklyn transplants to Sunnydale.
Kristin: Yes yes.
Jenny: Who then open businesses.
Kristin: The stereotypical Italian, he lives in the neighborhood called The Little Stereotype of Italy.
Jenny: [laughing] Yes, exactly.
Kristin: Right and so we’ve already seen Forest and Forest is the first person to write something to somebody else in this episode and with the onslaught of message boards we’re gonna get more of that.
Jenny: Aww like when Willow and Buffy get to Giles house and Willow writes "Hi Giles."
Kristin: "Hi Giles."
Jenny: [Yells] Ah!
Kristin: Isn’t it so much? Because it signifies, that moment where Willow just takes that moment to say "Hi Giles," it signifies the realization of what they had taken for granted. That they could just, and I have the chills talking about not just that moment in this scene but this moment where Giles puts his hand on Buffy’s shoulder. The look that she gives to him makes me die. And you know in another avenue, and we’re gonna get to the kiss pretty soon but, it’s like two things, I think, I don’t think that it’s just the fact that they no longer have language, that’s not true they have language but they don’t have their voices.
Jenny: Mhm.
Kristin: That’s one part of this but it’s also that they are in a state of chaos. They’re in a really terrifying state. And so the combination of those two things makes everyone want to express to each other the things that they have not yet expressed or that they haven’t expressed enough. They really want to let each other know how much they care. And really no one can get me much more in this episode than Giles and Buffy. They usually are the ones that get me the most.
Jenny: Yep. Then Buffy’s like "I see you’ve written can’t even shout, can’t even cry from the poem that I told you about from my dream. [louder] We can’t shout or cry!"
Kristin: Right!
Jenny: So there’s that and then Xander gets everybody’s attention and turns the volume up on the news. Learned from the commentary that that’s an actual local newscaster.
Kristin: Oh wow!
Jenny: You might remember him from Amends when he’s like "Well we won’t see the sun today on Christmas, it’s snowing in Southern California."
Kristin: "It’s snowing 700ft today in Southern California." [laughter] We learned in this newscast that Sunnydale has been quarantined.
Jenny: For laryngitis .
Kristin: Which, come on, that’s not how laryngitis—
Jenny: How dare you.
Kristin: And also there’s this one quick shot to Olivia—
Jenny: Dude! She’s drinking scotch and looking so bummed like "Why did I pick this weekend? What the fuck!"
Kristin: Yeah she’s like "I’m fucking stuck in Sunnydale" and we’ll kind of, at the end of the episode, get to a little bit more of the Olivia that eventually comes out of this episode which I think is heartbreaking.
Jenny: But first we go to Professor Walsh who’s all like "Fitter, happier, more productive."
Kristin: It’s the same computer.
Jenny: It’s the same software probably, right?
Kristin: Actually lets play a clip from Professor Walsh’s computer and a clip from Radiohead side by side. Let’s see how similar they are.
Jenny: Sick.
NOTES: [Clip of Radiohead plays]
Radiohead: [Robotic voice] Fitter, happier, more productive.
NOTES: [Clip from the episode plays]
Walsh’s computer: [Robotic voice] Because there will be chaos. You will help keep order. Dress as civilians. Military presence will increase panic.
Jenny: You know the first time I was watching this episode and taking notes I was doing it long hand on a yellow notepad and then I looked up and saw Riley writing on a yellow notepad.
Kristin: You felt really seen. Connected to your hunky boyfriend.
Jenny: Yeah, I felt seen, I felt connected, I felt like taller and more muscular all of a sudden.
Kristin: [laughs] So...
Jenny: I was like, "Am I sweatier?" Riley’s pretty sweaty 25-30% of the time.
Kristin: You were like [robotic voice] "Am I fitter, happier, more productive?"
Jenny: Truly.
Kristin: Uh, so we go to the town and we see of course the other side of a town in chaos is um, there's garbage can fires suddenly, and fire hydrants are exploded and—
Jenny: Interesting how we don't see any women attacking each other.
Kristin: People are—
Jenny: Just men attacking. Interesting.
Kristin: Odd.
Jenny: Hmm.
NOTES: [THE PATRIARCHY jingle plays] The patriarchy! [thunder clap, evil laughter]
Kristin: So of course then Buffy and Riley meet and they're like, "Oh my God, this is happening. Do you know what's happening?" Riley's trying to break up a fight. Buffy slickly helps without Riley seeing.
Jenny: I just got boose...boosegumps [laughs]
Kristin: [laughs] Boosegumps? A case of the boosegumps, Jenny?
Jenny: Help, I just got goosebumps! Dammit! How, why is this happening to me? I don't even like their theme.
Kristin: You don't like their theme song?
Jenny: It's like fun. But so this is another thing that Joss talks about in the commentary, he talks about how he prefers this to the Angel and Buffy love theme, which is more like as he defines it straight ahead and romantic, which I guess I just like things that are straight ahead and romantic cause I prefer that theme and it feels more emotional. And this one feels like—
Kristin: Oh, a little bit like cardboard?
Jenny: [laughs] Cardboard dipped in butterscotch, maybe.
Kristin: [laughs] So then we get a shot of the clock tower and we see the floating feet—
Jenny: Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. They kiss.
Kristin: Oh my God. I'm sorry.
Jenny: In real life.
Kristin: I'm so sorry.
Jenny: They're about to go their separate ways and then Riley's like, wait. But silently, in his brain.
Kristin: And they're able to, of course, because they're no longer using their language, they're using everything else to communicate. It's very clear and also very like dark. So it's time, the time is now. And this is a much more romantic way to kiss for the first time than in front of a classroom. So I say again, I'm glad for it and hopefully they'll continue to kiss until Buffy can realize her fantasies of professor Walsh being involved.
Jenny: What the fuck?
Kristin: I'm just saying it's weird. The dream sequence in the beginning—
Jenny: Get that out of your mind!
Kristin: So then we get to the clock tower and floating feet.
Jenny: Yeah. They're like, we all float up here, Buffy.
Kristin: Yes. And then we meet the henchmen. We haven't seen like the muscle behind The Gentleman yet because The Gentlemen are too proper, of course, to get any dirt under their fingernails.
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: They have these henchmen that are like in straight jackets.
Jenny: Technically in the script, I guess they're called footmen, but I call them straight jacket mummies.
Kristin: Yeah. They're, they remind me of the, um, the monkeys in the wizard of Oz. You know, like the, the Wicked Witch has, what are they called?
Jenny: The flying monkeys. Or is it winged monkeys? Flying monkeys? Monkeys that are able to fly somehow.
Kristin: It was bad monkeys, you know?
Jenny: [laughs] Bad bad monkeys.
Kristin: So they remind me of them. And this is like really, this is The Gentlemen have a creepiness that I think evokes like a Michael Myers. Um,
Jenny: Oh.
Kristin: Do you know the—
Jenny: They're slow.
Kristin: Yes. They don't have to chase you. I mean, they, they are chasing you but—
Jenny: They don’t have to break a sweat.
Kristin: Exactly. They have to exert no effort and the like—
Jenny: They’re like, "We'll get to you."
Kristin: —what are they called? The Watchmen? The henchmen?
Jenny: Footmen.
Kristin: Footmen, uh, help them by sort of being the ones to run a little faster, pin people down, et cetera.
Jenny: Olivia and Giles just have some more sex.
Kristin: Of course.
Jenny: And Olivia, hell yeah, wakes up in the middle of the night and like puts a robe on. Yeah. Yeah.
Krstin: Oh wow, Jenny.
Jenny: Sorry.
Kristin: No, I mean I'm here with you.
Jenny: She’s just so elegant.
Kristin: Yes.
Both: [laughs]
Jenny: She goes upstairs and um, once again like, uh, Joss talks here in the commentary about like how the scariest moments are reserved for Olivia and Tara. And this I think is arguably maybe the scariest moment in the entire series. It's like, right. And Matt, you’re thinking like what would it be like to be Olivia to look out the window. You're visiting your hot, older boyfriend, you like see this fucking creepy monster floating, but you're like, well, at least it's like across the stree— Oh my god, it's right there!
Kristin: I jumped, I jumped.
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: You made me jump and I knew what was coming and also it's not happening. But I jumped. It is terrifying and a lot of you wrote in about this scene. It is horrifying and of course only made more terrifying by the fact that she can't scream.
Jenny: I've probably seen this episode like 25 times and only in the last like three times that I've watched, even the first time that I watched it to like start working on the song. This go round. I like jumped at that.
Kristn: Yeah, it's, it's, it's real. It's real. And whew. Sorry for Olivia. And then The Gentlemen of course glide into the dorms and they like are wagging their finger.
Jenny: We see a closeup when they're still outside. We see a closeup of the hand curling. Uh, Joss talks about how he, uh, said to that actor, Don Lewis, who was a mime, uh, give me Nosferatu on the hand. That's like where that curl comes from.
Kristin: So creepy!
Jenny: And dude, Doug Jones’ face, when they get to room 118.
Kristin: Right?
Jenny: He's like, "I love this room! This is my favorite dorm room!"
Kristin: That’s the best part about The Gentlemen is that they're like, so, later when they're proud of each other, they're proud of him for bringing back a heart. And he's like, so proud of himself.
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: And they're all clapping.
Jenny: "Oh I couldn't possibly! Don’t make me sing!"
Kristin: It’s like, I know they're terrifying, but I sort of love them. Like, you know, we sort of love their little crazy, horrible, murderous society.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: Just a touch, uh, so, the henchmen on the, the henchmen, the footmen, whatever, the evil monkeys, hold the student down.
Jenny: Oh, the student wearing a matching pajama set?
Kristin: Of course! And they glide in, smiling. The scalpel comes out and it fades to black. But I read Jenny that they actually filmed the scene, couldn't include it, and it's apparently, I don't know how we would ever get our hands on it, or if we would want to, but it's apparently terrifying.
Jenny: I bet somebody out there has it.
Kristin: You think? Well, send it to us or don't.
Jenny: I have two things to say. Uh, first of all, the Victorian, like black doctor bag that they're carrying around, it's got a scalpel and like two jars in it, I guess. Probably.
Kristin: But, so well leathered so it won't make a sound.
Jenny: Oh, totally.
Kristin: Or well oiled, I should say.
Jenny: Okay. And this scene where we're seeing from the boy's perspective, we're seeing Doug Jones gliding towards him. Okay. So dig it. That is a moment that, uh, is from a dream of Joss's in which a man was floating at him as he was like lying in bed in his dream. So it was very important to him to like shoot it from POV for like extra scary. But that means they had to shoot the ceiling, which means they had to put a ceiling on the room, which they usually wouldn't bother because you know, lights go up there and stuff.
Kristin: Right!
Jenny: It’s just one of like a zillion examples of like how much more went into this episode.
Kristin: Incredible.
Jenny: Than your average episode.
Kristin: Yeah, incredible.
Jenny: He also talks about how his mission with this episode was to traumatize a generation of children. He wanted like a generation of children to be like, "Man, you know what fucked—" like at the bar, age 35, "Man, you know what really fucked me up when I was a kid? The Gentlemen from Buffy the Vampire Slayer."
Kristin: Ding, ding, ding! It worked!
Jenny: Yeah, mission accomplished!
Kristin: We're not at a bar, but we will be later if you know what I mean.
Jenny: So we see a bunch of jars.
Kristin: Yes. Jars of hearts.
Jenny: And do you know a song—
Kristin: Isn’t there a song—
Jenny: There's a song by Christina Perri that goes, uh, it's about The Gentlemen [laughs] that goes, "Who do you think you are running around leaving scars, collecting your jar of hearts and tearing love apart. You're going to catch a cold from the ice inside your soul. So don't come back for me. Who do you think you are?" [whispers] A Gentleman.
NOTES: ["Jar of Hearts" by Christina Perri plays] Who do you think you are? Runnin' 'round leaving scars Collecting your jar of hearts And tearing love apart You're gonna catch a cold From the ice inside your soul So don't come back for me Who do you think you are?
Jenny: I'm so sorry. I'm going to, this is the last thing I'll say for a second. I will let you speak. Um, but I just thought this was also in addition to Nosferatu, visual inspiration for The Gentlemen also came from Pinhead, from the Hellraiser series. and also Mr Burns from The Simpsons.
Krisitn: Mr. Burns, yes! I read that same thing!
Jenny: He talks about how he wanted The Gentlemen to remind people of what scared them the most as children. And then he posits that children are most afraid of old people.
Kristin: Well, I was afraid of old people as a kid.
Jenny: Exactly.
Kristin : Yeah.
Jenny: We're like, what's up with that? I don't understand that.
Kristin: Yeah, exactly. I'm so far from that that it terrifies me. So, okay. Buffy sees that the heart's been removed—
Jenny: Detective Buffy!
Kristin: Do you think she’s horrified because of the heart or the matching pajamas.
Jenny: I think she's horrified by how easy it was for her to just slip behind the person who's supposed to be guarding the door. And also the fact that the door is wide open and there is a heartless body laying on a dorm bed.
Kristin: Yeah, uff. And then we learn, Jenny, that Olivia can sketch too. And my question to you is, do you think Olivia and Giles sketch together, do you think they bring their sketchpads to the Sunnydale river bank?
Jenny: What I think first of all, great sketch Olivia, which prompts Giles to say, aha I've been fucking up. Let me go get my fairytale book.
Kristin: He moves over ‘the book with the cover that says ‘Vampires’.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: Then he moves over the book that says...
Both: ‘Witchcraft’.
Kristin: And then he falls on the book that says ‘Fairy Tales’.
Jenny: Yes. Well I don't think they sketch together. I don't think Giles wants Olivia to know what his drawings look like. And also why didn't Olivia help with the slides?
Krstin: Oh my god. Because, because, okay. So Jenny, we’re about to get to one of the most noted scenes in the episode where we go to this, UC Sunnydale classroom. Now I enjoy this scene. You enjoy this scene, I assume?
Jenny: Love it.
Kristin: Okay. So before we start talking about it, Jenny, I'm going to pause the recording here because I have, unbeknownst to you, brought us to dry erase boards and I want to set up the camera so that we try to tell each other what we think about this scene, but without speaking and we can only use our dry erase boards two times.
Jenny: Oh my God.
Kristin: Okay?
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: I just surprised Jenny with this. I didn't tell her what we were doing, but that's, that's the plan. So you can, um, Jenny and I just did an experiment. Uh, we'll put a snippet of it, uh, up on socials and we'll put the full video. It was about five minutes of us trying to communicate.
Jenny: I think I did a great job.
Kristin: I think we both did a great job. Uh, Jenny went heavy on the whiteboard though. I would have preferred a little—
Jenny: Use the tools that are available to you.
Kristin: Well, sure. Uh, so you can see the full video if you’re a patron of ours, uh, at any level. And of course you will all get to see a highlight from, from the experience on our social media. You could follow us of course at @bufferingcast on Twitter, on Facebook, on Instagram. We'll put it in all of those places just in case you prefer one social media outlet over the other.
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: So let's talk about this scene now that we have our voices back, Jenny.
Jenny: Yeah! Giles puts on his favorite lecture music.
Kristin: So, and I wish I had written this fact down, but Giles used to be in another show, not Giles, Anthony Stewart Head, used to be on another show that was like a bad detective, I don't remember. But this was the theme music to that show where apparently they like solved crimes using logic or solved mysteries using logic. Anyway, there's a little Easter egg of a thing, but the song, and you can tell that I have yet again prepared so well to talk about it.
Jenny: Wait, what was the takeaway from what you just said?
Kristin: Just that that song is the theme song—
Jenny: Oh, that song is the theme song, got it.
Kristin: That theme song he’s playing is the theme song to this other show.
Jenny: he was like, I brought my own theme music, so he puts that on.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Cracks his knuckles.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: "Oh yes, I’m ready!" And then promptly puts on the first slide backwards.
Kristin: Right! And also just a nod, a moment of appreciation, for the era of the overhead projector.
Jenny: Long may it reign.
Kristin: You too can have an overhead projector for very little money at almost any Salvation Army or Goodwill near you.
Jenny: Really?
Kristin: Every time I go to any thing like that, there's always like an overhead projector because what are the, where are the rest of them? There must be like an overhead projector graveyard, but I loved and what did you call, what are they? What are the little clear sheets called? They have a name!
Jenny: Oh god. Oh god.
Kristin: Cool. We'll leave you with that horrible unknowing that we now have to sit with—
Jenny: Transparencies!
Kristin: Yes! Oh, she did it! The million dollar question. I loved transparencies. I loved drawing on them. You could draw on them with markers that would wipe away or you could be like, "I'm making this transparency permanent forever." And I believe the Giles went with permanent for these. I hope he did. And I would love to know where the original transparencies are.
Jenny: Yeah, where are these transparencies now?
Kristin: They have to be worth a lot of money, more money than any other transparency.
Jenny: Definitely.
Kristin: [laughs] So Giles's drawings are hilarious.
Jenny: They're so funny.
Kristin: The Gentleman that he draws with the fucking doctor bag that he— And like, first of all, his use of red marker—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Is incredible.
Jenny: True.
Kristin: And his execution of drama. It's like, he could've just written down the things he needed to write or—
Jenny: Also, why do they need to do it at this lecture hall?
Kristin: I know!
Jenny: It's so great!
Kristin: Because they wanted to give us our favorite thing, and it is the scene! So they have some um, miscommunications. Giles is like, do you know what they're after? Buffy is like, taps her heart and Xander's like boobies. He says boobies. He doesn't say it, but he mouths it.
Jenny: It's really unfortunate that it's a two syllable thing.
Kristin: Anya is eating popcorn.
Jenny: Lovely
Kristin: Because she's fucking here for the show. I mean Anya and Spike have a lot of similarities, I think.
Jenny: Totally.
Kristin: They're both like ex-demons/ex-vampires and they're just like, "Seen it all, been here, done that, don’t give a fuck.
Jenny: Yeah! "Look at these goofy humans at it again."
Kristin: Then of course we get the most confused moment of all when—
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: —they're like, how do we kill him? And Buffy is like by—
Jenny: Jerkin’ ‘em off!
Kristin: Giving them a handjob. Right! If you give a Gentleman a hand job—
Jenny: Oh my god!
Kristin: —then his head explodes, which is actually kind of accurate.
Jenny: That’s not far off, probably.
Kristin: We think. We've heard.
Jenny: That's what I've read about.
Kristin: [laughs] So of course she means maybe with a stake. But what I posit here is Buffy has never used a stake like this in her entire life. You slay forward—
Jenny: Not down!
Kristin: Right, exactly. Um, but it gives us all a laugh.
Jenny: Also, then Willow is like, what about this Cher CD? Will this Cher CD—
Kristin: She’s like, if we play ‘Believe’, will it kill them? Will it kill them?
Jenny: But alas no, only a real human—
Kristin: Because it almost killed Buffy.
Both: [laughs]
Kristin: Oh then Buffy is very annoyed.
Jenny: Dude! This is like the peak. This might be the peak comedy moment.
Kristin: Oh my god, where she’s so mad about her rendering.
Jenny: And the way that she like moves her hands. Apparently Sarah Michelle Gellar pitched this moment. That was like her actual reality.
Kristin: [laughs] Incredible. Oh, incredible. And then there's this beautiful shot at the end of this scene where Buffy is holding the transparency. Thank god you remembered what they're called. Uh, and she's holding the transparency and it's sort of like we're focused on Buffy and then it pulls out and focuses on the transparency, which is just really nice.
Jenny: Yeah, really nice effect.
Kristin: And then everybody's suiting up to patrol. The Initiative suiting up. Buffy’s ready to patrol.
Jenny: Riley sees movement in the clock tower.
Kristin: You know who else is ready to fucking patrol, Jenny?
Jenny: Who?
Kristin: Tara. Tara’s ready to patrol.Tara has a list of rooms!
Jenny: Yes. She's looked up where Willow lives and she's been doing some research. She's taking the books, whatever. Now this you'll appreciate.
Kristin: I will.
Jenny: She takes about three steps outside and falls right down.
Both: Because she’s so clumsy.
Kristin: Tara, so clumsy. Also, it's been brought to my attention by a couple of people that this episode will mark the first in an ongoing relationship of Tara versus doors.
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: Tara, apparently, is going to have many a struggle with getting a door open. And the first time that that happens is here in her first episode, ‘Hush’.
Jenny: Right so before she gets inside to the doors though, she’s picking herself up and The Gentlemen and the footmen are in the background.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Now those gentlemen floated around through the fucking dorm hall until they were like, "What's my favorite room?" They were so particular. So what do you think makes like a good heart to them? Cause they see Tara and they're just like, yes, you think there's like a purity factor?
Kristin: Ooh, maybe. Or I was going to actually say like a fear factor. Not to be confused with the popular 90s show ‘Fear Factor’ or maybe early noughts. Um, but, but that like the like, you know how like an animal can smell fear?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Like maybe The Gentlemen—
Jenny: But they’re just like cruising down a hallway, knocking on doors. Like that guy who answered the door that we first saw—
Krisitn: But like everyone’s afraid, cause none of them have voices
Jenny: But that would make everybody's heart good. And like, why bother cruising the hallways?
Kristin: No but what I’m saying is, like, maybe certain people have a proclivity to be more afraid. What I'm saying is I'd be fucked cause I'm more afraid of everything. But maybe you're right. Maybe there's a purity. I mean we did see matching pajamas on that man, or boy, which does—
Jenny: —does suggest that he's never had sex.
Kristin: He’s pure.
Jenny: Virgins only please.
Kristin: And Tara definitely has like a purity about her from the moment we meet her. Like, an innocence, I think.
Jenny: Yep. Yep.
Kristin: So maybe that is what it is. The pure heart.
Jenny: Okay. Then Tara's running around banging on doors.
Kristin: Oh my God. She's knocking on all the doors. And this is like a study in humans who don't come to other, the aid of other humans at the risk of themselves here because all of the people in their dorm rooms are like, "Fuck whoever that is. Could be somebody bad or like, I'm not going to get involved," and no one opens the fucking door. Of course, except for Willow. Before we get there. I just want to say Buffy with the crossbow, it's like her weapon of choice this season I feel like, right?
Jenny: Urgh, it's so impractical!
Kristin: And then I thought that Riley's weapon was a thing that would shoot a stake. Like it looked like it was a stake in a gun.
Jenny: Right. But instead it's just like a taser—
Kristin: —Ghostbusters blaster.
Jenny: Yeah, it's a blast.
Kristin: Definitely, Riley's one of the Ghostbusters.
Jenny: Uh-huh, Yup.
Kristin: So, um, Tara sort of knocks on the door and the way they set this up as you think that she's knocking on Willow's door, because we've seen Willow hearing the knock, but turns out she's actually knocked on the door of the place that The Gentlemen have just taken another heart. So they opened the door and they're holding a heart and she's like, "Fuck. This. Shit."
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: And she starts running at the same moment that Willow comes out. And of course clumsy part two.
Jenny: So clumsy!
Kristin: "Oh god—"
Jenny: "—oops, I just ran right into you—"
Kristin: "Oh my goodness!" Ladies piling on ladies accidentally in the hallway! They stand up and they run. And Tara is like, it's really subtle. But Tara is like super protective of Willow in this moment. Like you can see her, you can see Amber Benson pushing Alyson Hannigan, like, you can see her like sort of guiding her out the door, um, to, of course also exit, but it just feels protective.
Jenny: It feels protective. But also look, you know, it's just impractical. That's not how you run when you're running away from something.
Kristin: But they're like, they're not just running away. They've just fallen and like, they're discombobulated.
Jenny: Al-right.
Krstin: I'm sorry, I’m here getting zigzag part one and I'm here for it all. Okay, so Buffy is in the clock tower. Riley's in the clock tower.
Jenny: This shit gave me more goosebumps, goddammit.
Kristin: More boost gums?
Jenny: More boost gumps!
Kristin: The crossbow faces the Ghostbuster taser and there's the reveal and we cut to black. We cut to commercial and now you're going to be like, "Hefty, hefty, hefty, wimpy, wimpy, wimpy."
Jenny: Wow!
Kristin: Remember that commercial?
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: We're like a commercial where like the Koolaid man breaks through the door.
Jenny: Or just some more herbal essences—
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: [laughs] —starring Olivia.
Kristin: So we cut back in on this scene and like as two fighters would do, right, they're both trained to fight. They're like, "Holy shit, what the fuck?" But they're like, "Not now. Now we have to fight." And we get a moment that I enjoy where like Buffy swings across on the rope and Riley has to take a minute cause he's like, "Dayum!"
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Very impressed. I also read that in this final fight scene, you might be delighted to hear—
Jenny: That Marc Blucas does all his own stunts?!
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: Yes I know!
Kristin: I want you to know that Jenny is sitting in a chair with arms and while that came out of her body, she pushed her body up out of the chair. Like, I don't think your butt was even on the seat anymore. She was pushing up on the arms. She got very excited. So that's pretty cool! Points for Marc Blucas. And Spike. Um, James Marsters did some of his own stunts as well earlier in the season, I believe.
Jenny: Nice.
Kristin: So like great work everyone. Um, so whatever. The biggest reveal of the episode—
Jenny: Oh yeah.
Kristin: —is that Giles has not one, but two green mugs, Jenny, two green mugs.
Jenny: [laughs ]Ha, well, he's got a set.
Kristin: He has a set.
Jenny: Notice that none of the Sunnydale kids are ever drinking out of a green mug. He’s like, "That mug is for company," and company is Olivia.
Kristin: Jenny, I think that in addition to the fact that we revealed not only the two green mugs, but we think that perhaps the person who gave him those green mugs is Olivia and Olivia is here in this episode. I believe that we should call upon a very, very infrequently played jingle.
Jenny: A rare beast.
Kristin: The green mug song.
Jenny: Seldom seen and heard.
NOTES: [Jenny performing "The Green Mug Song"] Well, it's a green mug song From the bottom of our hearts This very handsome glassware Will answer every mug prayer And Giles can drink In Style And Giles can drink In Style
Kristin: Oh, lovely. You didn't think you were going to get that in this episode.
Jenny: Sure didn’t.
Kristin: But boy did ya!
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: I personally think the zigzag part deserves a jingle. Just going to say. Just a little one.
Jenny: [playfully] I’m. Busy!
Kristin: Just like a ‘Detective Angel’, kind of a little snippet. You know, nothing big.
Jenny: Oh god!
Kristin: Just a little.
Jenny: You make jingles sometimes.
Kristin: Not only, uh, did we get two green mugs, but immediately after we get the two green mugs, Spike is going into the fridge for the ‘Kiss a librarian’ mug. We get it again this week.
Jenny: So many mugs.
Kristin: Mugs full of blood already like prepped for him. Do you think he prepped it for himself or do you think Giles prepped it for Spike?
Jenny: I think Giles preps it for Spike.
Kristin: Um, and of course Spike takes a sip vamps out cause mm delicious pig's blood.
Jenny: Yep.
Kristin: And Xander walks in and the way that Spike is over Anya and Anya is asleep, Xander thinks that Spike has killed Anya, or at least fed off of Anya and he loses his shit.
Jenny: Hell yeah.
Kristin: Right. And Anya is like—
Jenny: [suggestively] Hell yeah!
Kristin: Like, and this is another, this is kind of like the Buffy-Riley kiss moment, of like, we saw that when they could speak to each other, they were not communicating the things that the other one needed to hear. Namely that Xander was not able to communicate his feelings for Anya to Anya. But in this moment, of course his feelings are very clear. And my favorite part about this moment, Jenny, is that after it's realized, of course that no Spike has not fed off of Anya. And Anya is like, "Oh my God, but you love me. You really love me." We see Olivia looking so excited about them kissing. She's so excited. She's like, "Ah, yeah, ahhh."
Kristin: No!
Kristin: Uh-huh, you go back, check the tape! It's there.
Jenny: I think that the adults in the room are just happy that the young people have—
Kristin: Oh, please, Giles could give a fuck. Giles is so over everything. Uh, anyway. And then of course Anya is like, do you want to have sex but uses the very known gesture.
Jenny: See, what you do is you make a circle with your left forefinger and thumb.
Kristin: [laughs] It has to be your left?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Okay.
Jenny: And then you point your pointer finger of your right hand and then...wait. Pointer finger?
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: No, index finger. Right? Index is your first finger pointer is your middle.
Kristin: What kind of...what the hell? This is your pointer finger. It's the finger you point with.
Jenny: [clears throat] A-he-hem.
Kristin: Oh my God. Jenny's Google search history: "Marc Blucas, Marc Blucas in shirt. Marc Blucas in no shirt. What is a pointer finger?" Your index finger is your ring finger, I thought.
Jenny: No, your index finger according to this fucking—
Kristin: —is also your pointer finger.
Jenny: —is your pointer finger/forefinger—
Kristin: Do you think, wow, that's way too many names for one finger. Do you think that is your—
Jenny: —/trigger finger/digitus secundus/digitas two and many other terms.
Kristin: Be careful with all that Latin, Jenny, you're going to conjure a demon.
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: Oh, okay. Well regardless,
Jenny: Yeah, whatever, you take your first finger and your left on your thumb and make a circle and then you take your other first finger on your right hand, jam it in there, jam it in the hole.
Kristin: Stop doing that so violently, Jenny.
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: Yes, of course. This is only symbolic of um, penis, either penis in vagina or penis and butt-sex. Um—
Jenny: I think—
Kristin: Or finger-in-hole sex—
Jenny: Listen, I think it could be any kind of—
Kristin: You think it could be —
Jenny: —oblong.
Kristin: Oh, like it could be a dildo in—?
Jenny: Sure.
Kristin: It’s penetrative sex.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Why are you sad?
Jenny: Well, cause I felt like, should I not have been just talking about penetrative sex?
Kristin: You can talk about penetrative...Pen-etrative? Is that how—?
Jenny: I should go. I’ll just see myself out.
Kristin: You're allowed to talk about—
Jenny: Pen-etrative.
Kristin: —sex that penetrates as it is a form of sex. Just not the only form. However, that gesture is definitely used more often than any other gesture, uh, to denote sex. And I heard that the network was kind of pissed about this being in the episode.
Jenny: Yes. Yes. But they let it slide cause it was too funny.
Kristin: They let her slide for humor.
Jenny: Hard to argue with that.
Kristin: Um, don't worry. We're getting to perhaps the next best part of the episode where, um, you know, Willow and Tara, they’ve run, they've gone in the room and they need to block the door, and luckily, I guess, when— You know what happened, Jenny?
Jenny: What happened?
Kristin: When the snake went through the high school and then they blew up the high school, destroyed, everything destroyed, except the vending machine. And they were like, damn, this vending machine lasted through the snake and the explosion. We should put that at the college.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah.
Kristin: So the same vending machine that used—
Jenny: Cold drinks!
Kristin: —used to serve cold drinks for the high school now serves cold drinks at the college and Willow can't move it with her strength. And then she sits down and she's like, "I'm going to use my powers, not to, not to help Amy, but to help myself. I'm going to move the vending machine." And she tries and it's wiggling, it's wiggling. And Tara is like, "Oh, I'm really feeling something here. Uh, maybe we should hold hands." The shot of them intertwining hands is certainly the sexiest thing that happens in this episode.
Jenny: It’s the most X-rated moment in television history.
Kristin: It’s like, I'm sorry, that gesture Anya did holds not a candle to the fingers of Willow and the fingers of Tara intertwining and then their forces combine and they reveal what lesbian sex is, for the first time on television.
Jenny: Yes, moving a vending machine.
Kristin: Moving a vending machine.
Jenny: Telekinetically.
Kristin: Across the room. It's amazing how many vending machines that we have had to find in our lives.
Jenny: Yeah, and also how many shows have gotten it wrong.
Kristin: I know. I mean, it's typical, you know, representation matters and we don't get it really many places, but here from, perhaps the only time we see what lesbian sex truly looks like.
Jenny: Thank you, Buffy the Vampire Slayer.
Kristin: You know who I bet wants to talk about this.
Jenny: [gasps]
Kristin: You know who?
Jenny: [gasps]
Kristin: I think Kate Leth would like to ASMR her way into our eardrums, talking about some fashion and probably talking about vending machines.
Kristin: Nice.
NOTES: [Fashion Watch intro theme plays] It's time for our friend Kate, To give you the Buffy fashion update!
Kate: [whispers] Hello and welcome to Buffy fashion watch. Today we're going to be talking about season four, episode 10, ‘Hush’. If you're finding yourself unsettled by The Gentlemen and their footmen, take a moment to relax. Center. Focus. Focus. Think about Tara’s center part, Willow’s gauzy, red shirt, Buffy’s bright pink, top. Giles. Giles in everything he wears. Always. It's alright. It's okay. When I first watched this episode, I was 11. 11 years old. And I got pulled out of school for falling asleep. But because I had been awake with three, three, nights straight. So if you're worried or scared, just picture your hand into my hand intertwining as we move a vending machine with the power of our beautiful. Gay. Witchcraft. Focus on your breathing. There's nothing outside. Then again, how will you know unless you go ahead and peek out? See, it was just your imagination. Until next time, I'll see you at the mall. [Fashion Watch outro theme plays] That was our friend Kate She gave you the Buffy fashion update!
Kristin: Wow. I can't believe what it feels like to have ear sex. You know what I mean?
Jenny: I—
Kristin: [laughs]
Jenny: —gotta go.
Kristin: I’m sorry. It was my first understanding. I was like—
Jenny: [in tones of playful despair] Ear sex!
Kristin: Now it's my only understanding. Kate Leth, thank you. And also like, oooh.
Jenny: And also [whispers] thank you.
Kristin: [whispers] Thank you.
Jenny: So!
Kristin: So, Riley's a Ghostbuster.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: Buffy's like, "Break the box!"
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: And Riley’s like, "I got it."
Jenny: Slow-mo hero moment. I'm gonna smash the wrong thing.
Kristin: Yup. Of course.
Jenny: And the way that he like looks at her after he does it, he's like—
Kristin: He's so—
Jenny: "Did I do a good job?"
Kristin: Yeah, he's a total Labrador. And she's like, "Urgh!" She's literally like "Men, am I right?" She's like, "No, you dummy." And then, and then she uses her hands to be like, "The box, the box," and he smashes the box. And um, her voice is, everyone's voices are returned and she knows, thank goodness, because of transparencies
Jenny: [guffaws]
Kristin: That the thing that will kill The Gentlemen is the sound of a human scream. Now Jenny, this is not Sarah Michelle Gellar screaming.
Jenny: Though she did scream her head off.
Kristin: So do you know from watching the director's commentary what happened here? Because I didn't find it on the internet. It just told, the internet told me, this was not Sarah Michelle Gellar’s scream. Someone wrote into us and said, you know, I think that they made this scream not as— Cause we've talked at length, I've talked about my love of a good horror scream and one of our listeners wrote in and said, you know, you might be disappointed cause this is, it's not a, it's not a great horror scream.
Jenny: It’s more of a yell.
Kristin: And this listener of ours posited that perhaps that was done intentionally because Buffy has never screamed in distress in her whole life.
Jenny: Hmm.
Kristin: I think, I don't know. But what do you know?
Jenny: Well what I got from the director's commentary was that they, uh, Foleyed in someone else's screamed for the sustain.
Kristin: Oh!
Jenny: Because that's a long scream.
Kristin: It is a long scream. But why? I mean, I guess whatever. I would love to hear the, I would love to hear the screen that Sarah Michelle Geller did. Wouldn't you?
Jenny: Of course.
Kristin: Yeah. Well anyway, wishing and hoping won't get us anywhere, Jenny. Let's just talk about the reality of the episode. We got this scream and it does what it's supposed to do. Now this, you haven't seen, um, ‘Everything Sucks’ yet, but you need to get on that train. There's a great moment in the film that they make in ‘Everything Sucks’ where they use a watermelon and they explode a watermelon, but they paint it to look like the alien's head and it's this great, whatever.
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: Anyway, I just finished the series and it reminded me of the way that their heads explode. Um, really effective. Really hilarious. It's like funny, you know, like it's, it's gross, but it's, I think comedic.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: Then everything is restored to normal.
Jenny: Yeah, and then Willow was like, "Why were you looking for me?" And Tara was like—
Kristin: Oh my God.
Jenny: "Well I thought we could do a spell."
Kristin: Come on everybody. Like, is there anything more gay than being like, "So why were you looking for me?" Like literally everything was just, you were almost dead. Like everybody went and you're like, "So um—"
Jenny: No, you know what's even gayer?
Kristin: What?
Jenny: When Willow's like, "I'm nothing special." And Tara’s like, "No, you are!"
Kristin: But really her voice drops, like five octaves.
Jenny: It's really intense.
Kristin: [in a very deep voice] "No, you are!"
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: Um, so, you know, we'll just have to see what—
Jenny: Yes! It seems exciting over in that corner.
Kristin: —kind of witchcraft happens with these two.
Jenny: Over in the Giles and Olivia corner though, things are not looking so promising.
Kristin: This is so sad. So basically Olivia is like, "So all that shit you told me like was for real?" And Giles is like, "Yeah, like I, these are like the monsters are real, the demons are real." And she says "Scary," and he says, "Too scary?" And she says, "I don't know."
Jenny: [quietly] Noooo!
Kristin: And then we all sob, because Giles deserves a lover.
Jenny: He just can't have anything nice.
Kristin: I know. This is really sad. And then, oh, I'm so sad. We're getting to the end of the episode. Good thing we have two episodes on.
Jenny: [laughing] Yeah.
Kristin: Um, so then after Giles breaks our hearts, we of course go to Riley and Buffy who have communicated better in this episode than they've communicated in any episode. But now their voices have returned and this big reveal has happened. They know that the other is not just a normal boy or a normal girl.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And Riley sort of like, "So I guess we should talk."
Jenny: And Buffy’s like, "I guess we should."
Kristin: And then...
Jenny: ...they don't.
Kristin: They sure don't. I mean, we'll see what happens in the next episode, but this is very poignant, very, you know— I don't know, I think it just underlines the entire theme of the episode, the silence at the end of the episode, the like chosen silence, right?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Like before it was silent because they could not speak and now it is silent because they cannot speak. A different kind of cannot speak. They're afraid of course. Right? Like they really like each other.
Jenny: Also, what happened after the clock tower? They just were like, "Well, see you tomorrow."
Kristin: "Meet you back at the dorm."
Jenny: "Bye!"
Kristin: Yeah. But yeah. Um, and we come to the end of one of the best episodes of the series.
Jenny: Hurray!
Kristin: And we had a hard time figuring out who to nominate for sexual tension. But let's play the jingle and get into this before we bid you adieu. [SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays] Sexual tension award!
Kristin: We're going to, we're taking this episode to root us back in a land where sexual tension awards go to, um, human people.
Jenny: To two human people. Or more.
Kristin: Or three. Right. But the secual tension award has become populated as of late with many inanimate objects. And I'm not yucking anyone's yum here. Uh, but, but Jenny and I did a lot of discussing and we decided let's ground this one, uh, in some like old school sexual tension awards.
Kristin: Yes!
Kristin: And Jenny, what do we have?
Jenny: Well, here are these sexual tension award nominees for this episode, ‘Hush’. We've got Olivia and Giles.
Kristin: Hot hot hot.
Jenny: Everybody loves it. We've got Anya and Xander.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Not too shabby. We've got Tara and Willow doing a sexy vending machines spelled together.
Kristin: Vote, vote, vote, vote. Sorry.
Jenny: And we've got in the fourth slot for your voting pleasure, Olivia and all of us.
Kristin: Yes, indeed. I know I'm voting for, but whatever. Um, also I want to let you know that it was really hard for me not to nominate. We had other, other options. These will not be listed, but I thought that The Gentlemen and hearts was up. I thought Spike and blood should have been a gimme. I'm still kind of up there with Giles and Xander's mom. Um, and I also, um, kinda think that Olivia, Anya and Xander wanted to do a little thing.
Jenny: God!
Kristin: I thought about nominating Buffy and Riley, but figured no one would vote for them.
Jenny: Never.
Kristin: A few people and then they'd feel sad cause—
Kristin: Yep. Yeah.
Kristin: You know, so a lot. Just a lot of sexual tension to go round. Thought maybe about doing it between all of us and Kate Leth's fashion watch.
Jenny: Sure.
Kristin: But that's not canon. So had to leave that one out. Anyway, you can follow us on Twitter @bufferingcast to vote in the sexual tension awards. And Jenny, normally we wait until the poll is closed to announce the winners from the week prior. Let's just announce what the winners are right now. If it changes, we'll have to come back and rerecord.
Jenny: Right, right, right.
Kristin: But if it stays the same, we'll keep it.
Jenny: Please tell me who won.
Kristin: Okay, Jenny. So, as of today, now there's still two days left. Anything could change, but right now tied for third place with 5% of the votes, Buffy and Riley's arms. Sure. Good contender.
Jenny: [laughs] 5%
Kristin: And Anya and Xander's mom.
Jenny: [guffaws]
Kristin: They both have 5% as of today.
Jenny: Oh God.
Kristin: As of this recording. And neck and fucking neck have been, should I read it? I'll tell you the neck and neck and then I'll, and then you can drum roll me to the winter. Spike and Passions, the television show, has been battling it out with Buffy and Spike. I’ll remind you, this is ‘Something Blue’. This is, this is, they're like, maybe people— [crosstalk]
Kristin: Maybe people are like, "Well, they didn't have any tension there." Anyway. Right now in second place with 43% of the vote is Spike and Passions. With 47% of the vote, Buffy and Spike have taken it. Will it last? Well, if you hear the jingle again right after we're done talking, then it lasted. And if you hear us say, "Hahahiiiiii," then you know, perhaps there was an upset.
Jenny: Oh my god. [SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays] Sexual tension award!
Jenny: Weeeeeell.
Kristin: Well, well, well.
Jenny: That is our first episode for ‘Hush.’ Tune back in next week for our second episode.
Kristin: You really want to tune in. Doug Jones, Camden Toy and a long discussion about the incredible work done, Jenny, by you and Hrishi on this week’s song. And I will say that you'll notice when we get to the song in just a few minutes that, um, there's some instrumentation where perhaps lyrics would have been and Jenny and Hrishi, and you'll hear more about this process next week as well, wrote the full song with the lyrics. And so next week, in addition to getting those interviews, in addition to learning about the creation of this song, you'll also get the song with all the lyrics in it, which is pretty rad.
Jenny: Yes, yes, yes. Two songs, no waiting. Except one week of waiting. Ah, ah, yes. Okay, cool. So I am Jenny Owen Youngs and when I'm not making this podcast with Kristin, I'm usually watching an episode of Buffy five times in a row so that I can then talk about it with Kristin. But also sometimes I write songs and record them. You can learn more about me and my jams at jennyowenyoungs.com/buffering and you can give me a shout on Twitter at @jennyowenyoungs.
Kristin: Yes. And I am Kristin Russo, but my middle name is Noeline. And because of the ease in which you can spell it, I've chosen to use it as my website and also all of my social handles. So, you can learn more about me and the things I'm doing when I'm not talking to Jenny about Buffy. Uh, and our second watch of Buffy and our third and fourth and fifth watch of this week's episode of Buffy. Uh, I am helping LGBTQ young people and their families find the resources they need, find the advice they need. We just recently passed national coming out day and I was really excited. I did a compilation of all the resources that, um, I've worked on with some brilliant people over the years. And you know, it's, it's fun sometimes to kind of see the, the scope of the work and there's some really good shit so you can learn about that work that I do on my website. That's Kristin Noeline, K, R, I, S, T, I, N, N, O, E, L, I, N, E dot com. You can also use that to find me on Twitter and on Instagram at @kristinnoeline. Uh, and check out my kidisgay.com. My kid is gay, is a resource for parents, for loved ones, for educators. Basically for anyone who knows somebody who's LGBTQIA or um, just wants to learn more about the community. Uh, there's some really great resources over there that you should check out. And that's, that's the end of my rant, Jenny.
Jenny: Tight rant. Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on Twitter, Instagram and Facebook @bufferingcast. You can always email us at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com and Kristen will read it and then tell me about it.
Kristin: Yeah, it's true. I forward Jenny some emails and tell her about others. We have a great system.
Jenny: I love the system.
Kristin: You can support us and our work and let me say something. Um, a lot of you do support us and it's enabling us to do some really cool shit.
Jenny: Holy flip!
Kristin: Right? Because like, I mean it enables us to record. It enables us to spend time producing the show and it lets me reach out to people and book them for interviews. But recently it's been allowing us to also book some interviews where I will be traveling to some really fun places to talk to some really fun people in the coming months.
Jenny: Ahhhh! It’s gonna rock!
Kristin: And that is because of the support that you give us and it's like, it's really impactful is what I'm trying to say.
Jenny: Yeah, you make it possible for us to make a better show.
Kristin: You do.
Jenny: Thank you.
Kristin: Truly! And um, and we're all just having the best time doing it. You can support us financially over on Patreon. Just go to our website, bufferingthevampireslayer.com, click on Patreon and you'll see that there are four different levels of giving. You also get really cool shit for giving. You can be a part of the community, part of the secret Facebook group for just giving a dollar a month. At $5, you get the music in advance and you'll also get both of the songs, right? The without lyrics and the with lyrics versions of ‘Hush’.
Jenny: Sure.
Kristin: Um, we recently did a Buffy watch of hush with everyone. Uh, all of these things happen in the land of Patreon. There's merchandise discount codes, there are Q&A videos. There is exclusive merchandise which just shipped out just a couple of weeks ago. Uh, so really fun stuff. Um, speaking of merchandise, that's another great way to support us. We have some pretty bad ass stuff. I'm really excited about our store. We have stocks now. Um, hopefully very soon we're going to have the dinosaur mugs back in ‘cause they sold out.
Kristin: So great.
Kristin: We have a new ‘Buffy forever’ shirt that's like on a football Jersey shirt and it's really fucking cool. I love it so much. There is a ‘Support your local alewife’, there's a ‘Support your local girl gang’, there's ‘Smash the demon lizard patriarchy’ in two designs. There's a ton of shit over there. You can find it by going to bufferingthevampireslayer.com and clicking on a shop or store. I don't remember. You'll figure it out. And last but not least, if you don't have any money, that's totally chill too. Go on over to iTunes and rate and review us or rate and review ‘Angel on top’, our sister podcast about ‘Angel’ hosted by Brittany Ashley and Laura Zak. Those reviews help us a ton, especially when they're good reviews. Um, they help us build our community, help people find the podcast, help us get written up in places like Esquire and Time, which happened this year. It's been a really fun year for us. And so much of that has to do with all of you.
Jenny: Thanks. And till next time. [Jenny performing "Hush," off the album "Songs from Season Four" by Buffering the Vampire Slayer] I’ve been up, up all night I’ve been pacing, lost and tongue-tied What’s the word to reveal All the unsaid things I feel But I keep quiet, can’t even try it If you knew, knew the truth Where I go at night without you If you saw, saw the scars And heard all the ugly parts Would you still want me? How it haunts me Darling, whenever I try to tell you My voice gets caught I’ve been breaking down doors to reach you But the words stay locked But we need to talk We need to talk We need to talk We need to talk When I woke, [instrumental] Darling, whenever I try to tell you My voice gets caught I’ve been breaking down doors to reach you But the words stay locked But we need to talk We need to talk We need to talk We need to talk So we’re here, hear me out Here’s the part that I’ve left out I’m gonna tell you— Okay, I’m gonna tell you—