Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 4.21: Primeval
Jenny: Today’s episode is supported by Mack Weldon. Mack Weldon is a premium essentials brand that believes in smart design, premium fabrics, and simple shopping. And they self-identify as a men’s essential brand, but take it form me, your friend Jenny, you don’t have to be a man to wear their stuff. Their t-shirts are perfect. They’re so soft and they come in a zillion great colors. I also love their Ace sweat pant. I have three pairs and I wear them all the time. Their online store makes shopping and also exchanges so easy. The only difficult part is narrowing it down to what you’re gonna order. For 20% off your first order, visit Mack Weldon and enter promo code BUFFY at checkout.
Kristin: We also want to take a quick minute to thank two of our Prom sponsors. Two of the people who put goodies in those Prom totes that you received if you joined us in New York City in March. Boxed Water gave everybody a box of water. If you don’t know about Boxed Water, you should! They are part sustainable water company, part philanthropic project. They obsess over providing the purest water in the most sustainable way. The water comes in boxes instead of plastic bottles. It also is delicious and wonderful, and I very much enjoyed the boxed water I had at Prom and after Prom. Another fun item that you snacked upon in your Prom bags, and we thank you so much Pipsnacks for donating it, was Pipcorn! Which is tiny, little mini-popcorn. It’s very cute. It’s easier on your teeth and stomach than regular popcorn. It’s gluten free, it’s non-GMO, it’s vegan, it’s wholegrain, it’s good shit. I had some extra bags of Pipcorn leftover and I finished them very quickly. They’re very delicious. To Pipcorn and Boxed Water, thank you both so much for donating and supporting our work here, and for keeping everybody hydrated and snacked at Prom. If you want to learn more about Pipcorn, you can go to Pipsnacks.com. And if you want to learn more about Boxed Water, you can go to BoxedWaterIsBetter.com. Thank you both, again!
NOTES: [CHIME]
Jenny: Hello!
Kristin: Oh, hi
Jenny: And welcome to the intro. Hi Kristen.
Kristin: Hi!
Jenny: How is it going?
Kristin: It's going great. Jenny, can you tell that I'm wearing an Invisalign?
Jenny: I can't. You're wearing an Invisalign?
Kristin: I am. And I was just, this is the first time that I've recorded any audio while wearing it. So I'm just wondering if you could notice any speech differential from me or if I still sound great.
Jenny: You still sound great. You sound— I'm wearing my fangs. Can you tell?
Kristin: [Laughs] I can’t you must've been practicing?
Jenny: Yeah. For all day and all night.
Kristin: Um, listen, everybody, we have a pretty big announcement. Uh, if you've listened to our podcast for a long enough time, you know that our Philadelphia listeners have let us know that they are super ready to party. Philadelphia listeners, we've heard you loud and clear. We're going to be taping our season premiere episode for Season Five, "Buffy vs Dracula," at World Cafe Live on September 13th, which is also a Friday the 13th. And we're,
Jenny: Wooo!
Kristin: Yeah, that sums it up, Jenny. I was going to say, we're really fucking excited. Patrons got advanced ticket links yesterday. So you've got a little advanced
access to those. And today, Wednesday, April 3rd at 10:00 AM Eastern time, the tickets will be available to the public. We made you a Bitly, it's bit.ly/bufferingphilly. You can also go to the World Cafe Live site and find tickets there. We will let you know yesterday's pre-sale moved some tickets and there are some left for sure, but if you want a ticket, you need to get there pretty soon because we have a feeling that we're going to sell out and we're going to sell out pretty fast. So Philadelphia, you've already proven yourselves and if you would like it to get, get
on over there. 10:00 AM today, Wednesday, April 3rd, pop on over there. Oh my God.
Jenny: Wow. Uh, you might be doing some—
NOTES: [HELLMATH jingle plays] Hellmath!
Jenny: —right now and realizing that alive taping on a Friday, the 13th of September of Season Five, episode one means we're taking a little break and your math is correct. We have just two more episodes this season. Two weeks from today we'll be bringing you the season finale, "Restless." And then on May 1st we will have a very special season wrap up episode including some special guests, not the least of which is David Wells who plays the Cheese Man.
Kristin: I can't even believe like we asked you all to like help us think of questions and like 80% of the questions were, "What is his favorite kind of cheese." and "Did the cheese stick to his head on its own?"
Jenny: [Laughing] Oh no.
Kristin: So we'll be finding out those hard hitting answers for you and that's interview, but we're really excited to talk to David. Um, and after, after the season wrap on May 1st we're going to be taking the summer off and the main feed, but things are going to be pretty awesome in the land of Patreon during that time off. We'll tell you about that in a minute. The live taping of "Buffy vs. Dracula" from Philly will air on September 18th and then we're going to be back to our regularly scheduled programming and um, it’s Season Five, so like buckle up! We also have a few things going on personally this summer. So Jenny, why don't you tell them what's going on with you this May?
Jenny: Well, I'm playing a few shows. I'm playing in Boston and New York and Philadelphia on May 16th and 17th and 18th respectively. You can find tour dates at JennyOwenYoungs.com. And I'll tell you what else I have this EP that's done and I'm just putting the finishing touches and getting artwork done and preparing to prepare for release. I like a two-stage preparation process. So please stay tuned to me over the summer for news about that release and preorder and possibly more shows and all the fun things that go around releasing music. Hooray! What are, what are you gonna do all summer long?
Kristin: I am going to be a co-directing A-Camp, which is a sleep away camp for queer and trans people that happens in June. Very excited to those of you who joined me last year at A-Camp. I hope you're coming back. Can't wait to see you all again. And then also, Jenny, I don't know if you know this, but I'm going to be co hosting a podcast about The L Word. 
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: The first season of I'm, I'm joining for the first season as cohost. It's an autostraddle.com podcast. I'm doing it with Reese Bernard and it premiers literally in just a few days on April 8th. That's a Monday. So it's gonna be a Monday podcast and it runs from April to July. So if you're missing my voice in your ears, you can just listen to me talk about living, laughing, loving, fighting, fucking, I don't remember the rest.
NOTES: [Both laughing.]
Jenny: Those are all the important ones, I think.
Kristin: Yeah. And if you haven't already, go over and subscribe and join us on this
fantastic and horrific journey: bit.ly/LandBack, it just looks like "Land Back." So bit.ly/LandBack. Also I mentioned that we have our super busy summer on Patreon, so if you're in need of Jenny and I, you can also find a lot of treats over in that space. Bufferingthevampire slayer.com, Just click on Patreon. I just want to tell you a few of the things that are happening between May and September over there. Jenny is going to be playing two online concerts, Buffering songs. It's going to be really fun.
Jenny: Yes, yes, yes.
Kristin: [Laughs] We're going to be releasing bonus episodes including a Mailbag. And also you're going to get the complete interview with Mercedes McNabb, who as you know, plays Harmony. We'll be releasing part of that interview in Season Five, but patrons, you're going to get the full interview this summer, so well in advance. Also, Jenny, you're going to make a special season four song, right? For the whole season?
Jenny: Yes. Apparently I am,
NOTES: [Kristin laughs.]
Jenny: —but the whole season, I mean, I don't know how specific you want me to get, but I think it's just going to be a lot of like Riley doing pushups…
Kristin: I was going to say like, it’s in your control
Jenny: …Adam sucks…
Kristin: So if it's a song that's just you fantasizing about Riley, like there's nothing we can do to stop you. We'll just have to see what happens.
Jenny: Hell yeah.
Kristin: Also, I'm going to be reading the boom Buffy comics. So I'm going to be reading the first few issues for one Facebook stream, we'll be talking about those and then we're going to read three and four, which will be released. And I think just a few actually really soon. I think it's being released in April. So we'll be reading those together and talking about it in Facebook land. And that's not even all the things that we have going on. If you go over to our website, bufferingthevampireslayer.com, and you can also click on events and you can see all of the things happening in the land of Patreon.
Jenny: Wow, that rocks. Also while you were talking, I just worked out for myself that "Rippling abdomen, I don't even like men. What will you be doing later, Riley?"
Kristin: Okay. Wow. Live songwriting in the intro. Have you ever?
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah. The third, the third fragment needs some, some work, but I am excited that "rippling abdomen" and "I don't even like men" workout together. I'm going to workshop it some more.
Kristin: It's pretty good. It's pretty good, Jenny
Jenny: Preview of things to come. Yes. And speaking of things to come. If you want to come see us in Philly on Friday the 13th of September, please get your tickets. We imagine that people will be coming down from New York and up from DC and maybe other places as well. So get them now because there's a good chance we'll sell out. You can use that bit.ly that Kristin mentioned. You can also just go to our website, bufferingthevampireslayer.com, click on events and all of the information will be there for you.
Kristin: Every time I tried to go to the events page without clicking on the events link, I'm like bufferingthevampireslayer.com/events and it doesn't go anywhere. And I'm always like, what the hell? And then I remember the trick I play now on myself, which is that the link for the calendar is bufferingthevampireslayer.com/jennycalendar.
NOTES: [Jenny laughs.]
Kristin: So, and I forget every time and then I laugh at myself and my own joke every time.
NOTES: [Both laugh.]
Kristin: Okay. Um, also we have new shirts if you haven't seen them. Christine Thune who designed our logo, drew a re-imagining of the logo. It's like, honestly, it's gorgeous. It's the hand and the stake and the graveyard. But it's all like thin lines and beautiful. There's a lot of shading. It's so gorgeous. It looks so amazing on the shirt. It's over in our store and also when you're over there you'll see that we added a new sweatshirt because you all love the girl gang shirts so much. We added that in a sweatshirt now so you can stay warm while doing your girl gang duties.
Jenny: Yes! Yes, yes, yes. God, the new Christine design is so great.
Kristin: Brilliant.
Jenny: You know what else is great?
Kristin: What Jenny?
Jenny: Tension of the sexual nature and just the awards thereof.
NOTES: [Kristin laughs.]
Kristin: Yes. We um, did the nominees live together in the episode but we had taped it so far in advance that we didn't have the results. But Jenny, now you have them, you have the results. And when I typed the results out, I like squealed cause it was so, [Jenny laughs] it was so close.
Jenny: It's really exciting. I'm looking at them right now and woo, I'm fired up. Okay, so tied for third place, I guess—
Kristin: This is for the Yoko factor. Just in case we forgot.
Jenny: Oh yes, I’m sorry. Season Four, Episode 20, blaze it, tied for third place, each holding 11% of the vote, we have Adam and Spike, a worthy pairing. And Buffy and Angel,
Kristin: [Laughing] Womp, womp.
Jenny: Oh my gosh. And then the remaining, [groans] the remaining two match-ups. So close one has 38%, one has 40%. And they're both incredible pairings. In second place with 38% of the vote we have Spike and Giles.
Kristin: Oh, so close guys.
Jenny: And in first place taking home a hulking, well sculpted trophy for this episodes STA's, 40% of the vote, the victors, Angel and Riley.
Kristin: Congratulations, gentlemen.
NOTES: [Jenny imitates a cheering crowd.]
Kristin: Yes, the crowd cheers.
Jenny: This episodes STAs comes with a special honeymoon suite at your local Sheridan. Angel and Riley, we’ll be sending you some hotel keys as well and look for the trophy in the mail, thank you.
Kristin: Jenny, I released a book of my erotic novels for Faith and Buffy and I kind of want you to release a book of fan fiction of just Angela and Riley. I think that, you know, there's an audience out there for you.
Jenny: Yeah, that sounds great. The first activity that I pictured them doing together was changing the oil of a pickup truck
Kristin: [Laughing] Wow!
Jenny: which I guess they’d have to do at night. Like all of their, all of their activities would be like kind of farm-y but also like nocturnal.
Kristin: [Laughing] Nocturnal farming. That's pretty sexy by the light of the moon.
Jenny: Yeah, I'm there. Yeah, that's what I'm saying.
Kristin: Let us turn the corner from sexy to spooky. Shall we?
NOTES: [Jenny gasps.] [SPOOKY NEWS jingle plays] Spooky news!
Kristin: Okay. Jenny, this is the second time I have a spooky news story for you, and this one's really fun. This is from a listener, Jessica, who emailed it to me and it is from— it's a Twitter thread. The source of this information is, um, a book called Haunted Grease by John L. Tomkinson and the tweet is from @TarkaBarkaHolgy, which is T-A-R-K-A B-A-R-K-A H-O-L-G-Y. Who says, are you ready?
Jenny: I'm ready.
Kristin: [Reading email] I just found out that many Greek towns on islands traditionally designated smaller, uninhabited islands to bury their vampires on. [Jenny gasps] Yeah! Or rather dead people that they suspected of being vampires because vampires can't cross saltwater. [Jenny gasps] So Greece has Vampire Islands!
Jenny: Wait, what? Okay. First of all, according to who they can't cross the salt water?
Kristin: I know. I was like, well that's a particular lore.
Jenny: I guess the Greeks. I'm unfamiliar with that lore. But I love it. That rocks. But also on what grounds did they suspect people of being vamp dead people?
Kristin: I mean probably just like two puncture wounds in their freaking neck. But actually this week goes on to add that, um, according to the book, the Greek vampires are often cobblers by profession.
Jenny: What? So like I know a smear campaign created by someone with a, with an ax to grind with a local cobbler.
Kristin: Right? But also so they're apparently often cobblers, who are like named vampires after their death. And then the, the lore has it that they continue their work after death, which means according to this person tweeting, vampire islands with vampire shoe businesses. So just…
Jenny: So are the, [laughing] okay, so are those cobblers making shoes just for vampires or is their clientele open? Oh is it a mark of bravery to buy a pair of shoes as a mortal human from a vampire cobbler?
Kristin: Yeah! You know, like I could see like a pretty like a black market trade happening with this where like you have to pay for your vampire shoes in people, you know? Like you have to like deliver, you have to deliver people that they can eat or, you know, drink their blood. And then in exchange for that you get a pair of vampire shoes.
Jenny: Oh my god and they can probably use the, the tanned hides of the people that they drink—
NOTES: [Kristin gasps.]
Both: To make more shoes!
Jenny: Yeah, no, that's, that's um, efficiency.
Kristin: Now that’s some spooky news.
NOTES: [SPOOKY NEWS jingle plays] Spooky news!
Jenny: Well now I'm so scared again,
NOTES: [Kristin laughs.]
Jenny: But not too scared to say thank you to Lauren Klein, our dutiful sound engineer. Who are you going to follow on Instagram @LaurenTaylorKline. Hey Lauren!
Kristin: Yeah! And we are about to go right into Primeval. Now I want to let everybody know we say it in the episode. Well, we taped this episode two days after prom in New York City, so we are especially loopy. We hope you enjoy, we apologize in advance, and you're also welcome? Jenny, let's go and rips and fucking uranium out of that hard drive guy.
NOTES: [Both laugh.]
Jenny: Beautiful.
NOTES: [Buffering the Vampire Slayer Theme plays.]
Jenny: Hello and welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer . A podcast where we are watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer one at a time, spoiler free. I am Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: And hey, I'm Kristin Russo! We're back together again. Have you missed us?
Jenny: [Singing] Tada!
Kristin: This week, we are, wow. We are almost at the end of this season. We are
talking about Season Four, Episode 21: Primeval. Stay tuned at the end of this podcast every week for an original song written by Jenny recapping the Buffy episode we are discussing and if you have not yet started listening to our Angel podcast, Angel On Top, hosted by Brittany Ashley and Laura Zak, what in the Sam Hill are you doing? Who is the Sam bill?
Jenny: Yeah What's with the Hill of Sam? [Kristin laughs.] Primeval was written by David Fury, directed by James A. Contner and aired on May 16th in the year 2000.
Kristin: This is the one, yeah, where having gained control of Riley's mind, Adam, the name we always want to hear, sets in motion his plot to create an army of unstoppable soldiers and destroy the Initiative. So I guess he is successful.
Jenny: And is that the point of Adam? The point of Professor Walsh creating Adam was for Adam to create all these demonoid hybrids so that they could destroy the initiative? That seems like not—
Kristin: Well, I feel like that's the first step of the plan is like…
Jenny: Destroy the initiative and then what? Destroy—
Kristin: World domination?
Jenny: For what? I don't buy this— this posthumous character assassination of Professor Walsh, who was not great…
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: But I feel like she wasn't really world domination type.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: As someone who recently became the owner of my first lab coat, [Kristin laughs] I feel qualified to say, I just don't see it.
Kristin: Jenny and I are taping this episode two days after we were at Buffy Prom in New York City, which was amazing. And I sound a little sexier than usual, I think because of all of the screaming that we did.
Jenny: A lot of screaming.
Kristin: A lot of screaming. And in case you haven't seen already on our social media, over at @bufferingcast, we were gifted— we were— oh boy.
Jenny: I mean, I can't.
Kristin: For starters, we were named queen and queen—
Jenny: Of prom.
Kristin: Our Scooby's are beautiful, beautiful Scooby's made us a tiara and scepter that are incredible. The tiara is like, has little like bite me charm on it and a little Faith charm on it.
Jenny: And a crossbow, little battleax.
Kristin: It’s incredible.
Jenny: The scepter also has those charms. Just so we're clear.
Kristin: Yes. Everybody has the charms. And in addition to that, also lab coats because it is Season Four and my lab coat says Erotic Poet Laureate on it. And Jenny's, Jenny what does yours say?
Jenny: My lab coat is embroidered with my name, which is Jenny Owen Young's and my title, which is Hunkologist.
Kristin: Hunkologist. So that's the lab coat to which Jenny is referring. Also, wow. Prom was amazing. Jenny and I cried all day Sunday trying to process all of the love that we have for you. We won't get too deep into that cause we have an episode to discuss. But you know that our hearts are like the Grinch's except they started at normal size.
Jenny: Right, right. So imagine how messed up all of our other organs are right now.
NOTES: [Kristin laughs.]
Jenny: Also probably in the future we should have a Prom debriefing episode just so that we can squee all over the place. Anyway.
Kristin: So Jenny you were talking about lab coats. Why?
Jenny: Cause I have one? Oh because professor Walsh, because science, because character assassination!
Kristin: Yes. Right. Because we don't know what Professor Walsh’s actual end goal was. But it does seem, I mean here's what makes— I would say like Adam is lying or like Adam embellished the plan, you know, later on. But the fact of the matter is that we learned that Riley has a chip in his heart or whatever.
Jenny: Oh my god
Kristin: We just like, I tried to do a little deducing but I didn't get far enough. But I was like, Spike has a chip in his brain and Riley has a chip in his heart…
Jenny: It’s who needs a chip in their—
Kristin: It's like who needs courage? Like he's like the, like if, because then I was like, so that would make Spike the Scarecrow, which kind of makes sense because the Scarecrow in Wizard of Oz was like the intentionality of a scarecrow is to scare the crows away. But he was afraid of everything and like Spike isn't afraid of everything, but he kind of has to be afraid of things now.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: Like he's the vampire that nobody is afraid of, which checks. Yeah, then got really excited but then I got confused.
Jenny: No, because, okay, because Riley's chipping his heart. Tinman, tin soldier.
Kristin: Oh yeah!
Jenny: So then who a chip in their fear center?
Kristin: Like who, right, who's the third and then his Buffy, Dorothy. Like it would seem like Buffy would have to be Dorothy, but if Riley and spike are two then is it Angel? Is it far off Angel?
Jenny: I was thinking that would be the natural…
Kristin: The cowardly lion? The brooding lion?
NOTES: [Kristin laughing.]
Jenny: The brooding lion. Yes.
Kristin: Okay. So, so you can all work on that. What you do expect some photo shopping to be happening right away.
Jenny: Please
Kristin: Right away. Right now. Pause the episode, get to work. Yes.
Jenny: So at the very beginning of this episode of the very end of the last episode, Buffy was like, "I'm going to go find someone I can count on."
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: And we were like, "Who?" And in the beginning of this episode, she's like "Riley!" Except, what? Riley's not sitting in his dank, moldering school shell. He's somewhere else. Which we know, but Buffy was not anticipating. He's with Adam!
Kristin: Yeah. Brothers, Huh?
Jenny: Ew!
Kristin: Brothers. But before Jenny, before we get to brothers and mothers, which
is cast away title of this episode of Season Four, Episode Twenty: Brothers and
Mothers. I just want to say a couple of things: first of all, previously on, I didn't know if you noticed, but we had to hear Maggie Walsh say, or we had to hear Adam say mommy so many times in the previously on. And it's like the editor finally heard our screams because this previously on we get everything except "Mommy," we don't think you previously on it.
Jenny: Thank you, previously on.
Kristin: Thank you so much for that. Also I just, I didn't get to talk about the Yoko Factor, and there's two things that I just really want to talk about very briefly. If it’s all right with you. If it’s permitted.
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: I just want to say that the moment when Angel and Buffy leave Riley in the room made me happier than most things I've ever made me. It was really funny and I loved it. And the other thing I really wanted to talk about for two seconds is [Kristin laughs] Riley thinks that Angel is bad. And Buffy's like, no, that's actually just regular Angel. Okay. Sorry. I just, you know.
Jenny: Okay. You feel good?
Kristin: Cause I watched the Yoko Factor before I watched Primeval I got all jazzed on it. Now I'm ready.
Jenny: Yeah?
Kristin: Now I'm ready to go forward into the, to be continued. I want to say that I love Buffy studded jacket. You probably, I don't know if you talked about it in the Yoko Factor?
Jenny: We did not.
Kristin: Because we did not wearing it there too, but it's like a lady twist on a leather jacket.
Jenny: Oh geez.
Kristin: It's like a cowgirl jacket.
Jenny: [Laughing] Oh god.
Kristin: But the core of this episode really, and the last episode is something that Buffy repeats, I think in the previously on, which is, "This is why there's no ancient prophecy about a chosen one on her friends."
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: The core of this whole thing is really, and we're gonna I would imagine, probably spend the bulk of our time talking about this, is us seeing the Scoobies come together in a way they never have before.
Jenny: Hooray!
Kristin: It's very special.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: But first brothers and mothers. [Laughs.]
Jenny: Dude, Maggie Walsh also implanted a behavior mod chip in Riley. I mean, we've already mentioned this, but like, yeah, I don't, I just don't buy any of this.
Kristin: Yeah, there's, I mean, so season four has a lot of really great things, but I think it also has some weak spots. Adam, I think we've been clear on—
Jenny: Oh? [Kristin laughs.]
Kristin: —as the facts able weak spot of season four. But, but also right, like I don't really buy that Spike would be, allying with, is that way you say it allying? Ally-allying? Being an ally? Al- ly -ing?
Jenny: [Laughing] Oh my God, keep going.
Kristin: I don't think spike would be
Jenny: Teaming up with Adam?
Kristin: Teaming up with Adam the way that he is, cause it's so it's just like a bunch of verbal promises. Like he's trusting this like Frankenstein monster to take the chip out of his head with his long fingernails. Like, what he fuck?
Jenny: Well I think there's, I think Spike is a survivalist above all.
Kristin: Sure.
Jenny: And Adam is currently the beefiest beef stick in town.
Kristin: Wow. You're going to make your graph? To go along, ranking the beef factor of all of our dudes?
Jenny: Oh, of course. And, I mean when they first, when they first team up, it's like A. Adam makes a clear show of his superior strength and then it's like, "I'll give you the one thing you want."
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And then he does this like little motivational speech thing.
Kristin: I think the only way I'll believe it is what I think Spike has a little bit of a crush on him. You know, like I think that Spike just as like pretty into anything that might be able to kick his ass.
Jenny: Oh yeah, okay, I can see that.
Kristin: Right?
Jenny: Yeah, there's a pattern
Kristin: So, but I think that's a little holey for me. And I also think that, Maggie, right, Maggie's arc. And we set this up in the intro, but in case you skipped the intro for whatever crazy reason cause you missed Spooky News. So, we have an interview that we did a while ago with Lindsay Crouse who plays professor Maggie Walsh and is amazing and we saved it for this episode. So we're going to get to that pretty shortly. It's very, very exciting.
Jenny: Yeah! So Adam runs through the basic commands for a Labrador retriever: [Kristin laughs] sit, stand, quiet…
Kristin: Yeah, stop talking.
Jenny: and Riley's doing all of it.
Kristin: Right. And we're all like "Whaaaaaaat?"
Jenny: Uh-huh. And then Adam is like, "Humans are adaptable but weak and emotional." And I'm like, true.
Kristin: [Laughs] Yeah. I mean there are some points that Adam has that are—
Jenny: But, also who keeps saying, "Mommy?"
Kristin: [Groans] Also like that's something, sorry not to get all macro again, but something that I do love about this episode, and like I don't like Adam, but I do love the dichotomy of sort of like magic and heart versus like machinery and planning?
Jenny: Science?
Kristin: Yeah. Like, I mean I didn't want to play—
Jenny: I mean like, magic and science,
Kristin: Right? Hard and soft.
Jenny: [Laughing] Heart— heart and soft. You know that piano song that's like, [vocalizes a song].
Kristin: Like right. It's just like, I feel like it's like rigid, like following a plan to the letter and like be having your data in line versus like following your heart and your gut and your, and your passion—
Jenny: Baking versus cooking.
Kristin: Yes! Cooking fucking wins, man. Anyway, we'll get more into that in a bit, but Giles is really hung over.
Jenny: I feel him in his bathrobe.
Kristin: Jenny’s looking little tired. You still hung over from Prom two days later,
Jenny: No, I had one whiskey over four hours.
Kristin: I know I only had two—
Jenny: I’m emotionally hung over.
Kristin: That’s what I was going to say I only had two whiskeys, but I am emotionally and laboriously hung over. But yeah, Giles is in his robe and trying to fucking lie about it. [Imitating Giles] "I'll be on a brisk jog."
Jenny: Brisk jog. Of course. Me too.
Kristin: I thought maybe for Giles we can give him a little jingle. What do you think?
Jenny: Yes. [GILES jingle plays] Giles! Hot dad! When you were younger you were real bad But now you're older, you got glasses That help you watch over us! Thank you, Giles!
Jenny: Also we find out that Adam's like end game for getting Buffy into the fight is to achieve maximum carnage.
Kristin: Yeah to collect body parts.
Jenny: —More body parts cause Adam wants to make a bunch of Adam's. and how is everyone around Adam Not like you really want more of this? This is the aesthetic that we want to multiply?
Kristin: I know like can you like do, do we get improved looks as we get further down the line? Is it like are we eventually going to wind up with an iPhone X? Are we all going to have faxibilities
Jenny: iPhone X’s that are just like, "Mommy?"
Kristin: So yeah. And sorry, there was something else that you wanted to
Jenny: Oh yes. Spike has failed because he's effectively separated Buffy from all her friends, but too early because she didn't get the information that Adam wanted her to get.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Also, this whole thing is such a bad plan, let's get her some encrypted disks that reveal to her that there's going to be a rumble. Like what?
Kristin: Yeah also that are so encrypted that even willow can’t uncrypt them. Decrypt them? Decode them? Whatever. And that they uncrypt themselves.
Jenny: We’re never allowed to tape right after Prom. [Kristin laughing, Jenny imitating Kristin] Uncrypt? Decrypt?
Kristin: [Singing to the tune of "Un-Break My Heart" by Toni Braxton] Uncypt my code, say you’ll crypt it again… [Speaking] See we should tape after Prom all the time. Okay, so Xander’s really sad. And I'm sad for Xander, you know, and it brings—
Jenny: Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. I'm sorry you missed a really important scene, which is Buffy going back to her dorm to weapon up, [Kristin laughing] and she's got a tiny, little tote bag and a huge battle-axe and she's like, "I'm going to just make this work, it’s fine." Like, what are you doing? What is that accomplishing? You're going to put the heavy end of the axe in and then put the tote strap over your shoulder. But you're going to have like a very long battleax handle, just like sticking out, whacking and people as you stroll across campus.
Kristin: Yeah, it’s kind of how I feel when I put my yoga mat in my tote and it sticks out, but even more dramatic.
Jenny: Yeah, and more deadly.
Kristin: I also skipped the fact that Buffy goes into the dorm room and picks up the photo. It’s like very season one photo— [crosstalk]
Jenny: Holy Trinity—
Kristin: —and looks at it. But after those two very—
Jenny: Now we're ready.
Kristin: —very notable things happened. Xander is lying in bed and I have to say, Jenny, I know that you're the Hunkologist here, but he is looking pretty hunky like he's looking pretty good. And you know who thinks he looks good, especially when she picks up the blanket and to look at his penis?
Jenny: Oh my god! [Both laugh] Anya. The answer’s Anya.
Kristin: Sorry, Jenny and I tape remotely for so many of our episodes now that the fact that I have you sitting across the table from me makes me want to just say—
Jenny: —say the word—
Jenny and Kristin: penis.
Kristin: Just to get a rise out of you.
Jenny: Yeah. Oh, " rise ". So, Xander's depressed. He doesn't want to go check the board for available job opportunities and Anya is like, yeah, you shouldn't go down. They won't even interview you if you're naked.
Kristin: Yeah. But Anya is such a good girlfriend.
Jenny: This is so nice.
Kristin: Right? She's like, cause he basically gives us the first bit that explains the rest of the episode, you know? Because she's like don't worry your friends, what your friends say don't matter. And he says "Whoa. Right. It doesn't, it's just that I kind of believe it." And that's what's really complicated about Spike’s— what Spike's doing is he's not just like planting fake things. He's hung around with the Scooby's enough to really know their insecurities—
Jenny: And he has a greater emotional intelligence than all of them put together.
Kristin: Yeah. So, the seeds that he's planted within, all of them are pretty—
Jenny: —are like pretty aligned with their individual fears.
Kristin: Right, and Anya is like, but I love you.
Jenny: She is like, "Even if they are right, it doesn't matter. I love you."
Kristin: "You’re a good person, and a good boyfriend, and I love you."
Jenny: Also a Viking in the sack.
Kristin: Yeah. She loves talking about how good Xander is in the sack. It's like almost too much. Like, is he good in the sack?
Jenny: I have to believe her. I have to believe that Anya wouldn’t settle for a sub-par— He's probably better in the sack than he was when they got together. [crosstalk]
Kristin: I mean, math is—
Jenny: It’s probably a boot camp over there. That’s the real Fort Dicks. [Both laughing.]
Kristin: Wow! She’s coming alive! She’s coming alive! Just had to say penis at her face a couple of times. Um, yeah, I mean I think, I don't even, I lost my train of
thought: Fort Dicks! Fort Dicks was too good of a joke. We can move on now. So we briefly see when Buffy goes into look for Adam that Adam has what— I worked at a hedge fund for a few years with my life and I'll tell you that if you're a trader, you have three computer screens at your desk. [Both laughing.]
Jenny: I think he's just like buying stocks.
Kristin: I just thought it was so funny that, not only did he have three computers on his desk in quotes, it's like a pile of dirt… [laughing]
Jenny: [Laughing] Why does he have a desk?
Kristin: [Lauging] I don't know,
Jenny: His computer lair.
Kristin: But anyway, Adam's not there because he's taking Spike on their little jaunt to see the secret initiative lair that is sealed away like Indiana Jones.
Jenny: Why? At this point it’s just like an empty room. It's like, [imitating Adam] "Look, Spike. Look at what we have."
Kristin: And then, Jenny…
Jenny: Yeah?
Kristin: From around the corner…
Jenny: Yes?
Kristin: … comes what might be a zombie, what might be a reanimated corpse. One thing we know for sure is it is professor goddamn Walsh. And moments later, Forrest.
Jenny: But also Dr. Engelman. Poor, forgotten, Dr. Engelmann.
Kristin: Do we see Dr. Engleman in this scene? I didn't clock him in this scene. I thought we just saw him later.
Jenny: Oh shit.
Kristin: Spoilers! We’re going to see fucking doctor doom later. But in this scene…
Jenny: [laughing] Dr. Doom…
Kristin: I think— what did I used to call?
Jenny: No, I have Engelmann in my note for this part.
Kristin: Anglerfish! That’s what I used to call him.
Jenny: Oh, wait, wait, wait. Did you say that Adam took Spike on a tour?
Kristin: Adam took Riley on a tour. Who can keep track of those three?
Jenny: Yeah cause he’s all like, (imitating Adam) "This is what the secret part of the Initiative where the new race will begin." The new race? Dude? Okay. But also, like, I have to assume and now I am a doctor, [Kristin laughs] but I may not, this isn't my field of focus. But I don't think that once you start making demonoid-human-robot-fax machine hybrids, like once you start building them… I don't think they can like mate with each other and make other little lizard-bot-boys.
Kristin: Aww! If they could that would be so cute. Well, probably not.
Jenny: Well that would be better than looking at Adam.
Kristin: Yeah. I mean I guess it depends on like what kind of functionality these demonoid have. Like what do they look like when they take their clothes off? Are they mostly human? Can they still procreate? Are their reproductive organs left intact? Like what's happening?
Jenny: Yeah. What's up with their [laughing] dicks? [Both laughing.]
Kristin: We gotta go.
Jenny: You neglected to mention that when Buffy walks into Adam's empty computer lair, she's like, [whispering] "Adam, where are you?" [Normal voice] Out loud!
Kristin: Yeah, this episode has its strengths and it’s weaknesses. You know what’s a strength though, Jenny? Now that we've met a zombie or reanimated corpse, Professor Walsh, I think we should take a break here. Take some— [Crosstalk.]
Both: —get a drink of water—
Kristin: And we should go over to listen to a snippet from our interview with Lindsay Crouse. You are going to enjoy it. Oh my God. [CHIME]
Kristin: So hello Lindsay. Thank you so much for being on Buffering the Vampire Slayer. We're very excited to have you.
Lindsay: Thank you. It's great to be here.
Kristin: It's always funny for us— We've spoken to a lot of the, for lack of a better word, villains of the show.
Lindsay: I beg your pardon. [Both laugh.]
Kristin: So I thought we could start at the beginning and just hear a little bit about how you came to the role of professor Walsh and just hear about, you know, did you audition? How did you find out about the audition?
Lindsay: I did not audition for this. Someone called my manager and asked if I would come on the show and do this. And I wasn't quite sure when I was first called exactly what the role was, but then when I found out I thought, oh, this is going to be really fun. [Lindsay laughs.]
Kristin: That's actually, that kind of leads into the second piece of it. So you got called in for the role. Did you know the arc of professor Walsh at the start when you started or did you know like she was Buffy’s professor and there would be more to come?
Lindsay: Right. That's more what I knew. I knew nothing about what was to come. I didn't know how many episodes there would be, how long she would be on the show, or anything where it was going.
Kristin: So you just knew you were playing a professor who also went by the nickname "Evil Bitch Monster of Death?"
Lindsay: Yes. [Both laugh]
Kristin: Were you familiar with the show when you got called for it? Like did you know it already?
Lindsay: Oh sure. Yes. I thought the show was really fun. I watched it, it was really cute. And I have to say being, being called the evil bitch monster of death, there was a day after I'd been on the show for awhile when I took my young daughter into the orthodontist and it was very early in the morning and we came up to the reception desk and there was a pair of twins who were the receptionists in this dental office.
Kristin: Oh, wow.
Lindsay: And they stood up simultaneously with these very surprised looks on their faces and said simultaneously, "Oh my gosh, it's the Evil Bitch Monster of Death!" [Both laughing.]
Kristin: Oh my god! There's something like, I feel like you would have remembered that story no matter what, but there's something about there being two of them standing up at the same time.
Lindsay: Exactly. Tweedledum and Tweedledee. It was one of the most surreal things that ever happened to me. [Kristin laughs.]
Kristin: So in this, so this is an interesting question then because my next question is about like your preparation for the role and I wonder if that changed too as the role deepened and developed?
Lindsay: The way that the show worked for me was I didn't know what was coming. So, it was more like I would arrive and find out or I would find out only a few days before I was going to shoot. So it wasn't as if, you know, I was able to have a meeting and sit down and we were going to talk about how this was going to play out. As a matter of fact, at one point, because I had children and because I needed to plan my life a bit, I went to Joss and I said, you know, can you tell me what you think is going to come? Or, you know, how long this interaction is going to go on with Buffy and whatever. And he said, "Oh my gosh, we have the most incredible thing that's going to happen." I said, "Oh, that's fantastic." He said, "We're going to kill you!" [Both laugh.]
Lindsay: And he was so excited about it. I said, "Oh my goodness, when?" He said, "Two weeks from now." This is the life of an actor, you know, I thought, Oh my
gosh. And then he said, but he said "What’s really exciting: we're going to bring you back." I just remember feeling like, oh my gosh. Ah, okay. Cause I was hoping I was really gonna get Buffy at some point and have her in tremendous danger. [Lindsay laughs.]
Kristin: You got so close, but you know, she's really hard to take down. [Both laugh.]
Lindsay: I will say that when I came back, [laughs] I was in the makeup trailer, I didn't know anything, I didn't know exactly how it was all going to go down. I was in the makeup trailer, and there was a huge fight argument between the man, who was the gentleman who was doing my makeup and one of the people on the show, I don't remember who, as to whether I was a zombie or a reanimated corpse. I personally didn't have much to offer because I had never really been clear about the distinction between those two beings. [Both laughing.]
Kristin: [Sarcastically] How dare you!
Lindsay: So I sat there like a Ping-Pong match, you know, just watching one of them in the other one of them arguing for whichever way it was to go. Well, they decided eventually on a reanimated corpse, which I think involved a bit more flaking off skin.
Kristin: Wow. I was gonna say, what is, what wound up being the difference between the two?
Lindsay: Well, I think it was a lot of, a lot of flaking off skin and then it left a little bit more creativity because they put on my back a pack that weighed about 22 pounds out of which came tubes, some of which were carrying green lighted water and some which were carrying red lighted water, which was supposed to be my circulatory system, [both laughing] which came out of the body and went back in, I guess.
Kristin: Sure. Yeah, that makes total sense.
Lindsay: The only hard part about that was that it was literally glued onto my skin and that I had to sit with it all day. So if I had a shot, you know, at seven o'clock in the morning and then not one until five in the afternoon, there was no way I could lie down because I had this pack on my back. That was pretty fun.
Kristin: Wow! Wow. 
Lindsay: But I enjoy all of this. I loved the makeup trailer because watching them turn everybody into what they were was really, really fun. Really, a lesson was, it was a riot. There was a very Halloween atmosphere in the makeup trailer. [Laughs.]
Kristin: I'm sure. Well, actually another listener submitted question was about the practical effects and the makeup for both that you were involved in, but also, you know, you were around seeing so many of the monsters and Adam in particular. And they would love, and I would love to hear you talk about, you know, any of the fun like practical effects and monster stories that you might have.
Lindsay: You know about, about Marc Blucas, which plays into this. Marc actually I had known. I lived in Pacific Palisades at the time and Marc used to go to the rec field and, you know, work with kids on the basketball court, you know, he was so athletic and everything. And so I met him there because my kids played basketball and they were down there on the rec field. And you know, I would ask Mark, how are ya and what are you up to and whatever and say, well, I'm an actor. And like many young people, I'd think, oh my god, you're an actor. You poor baby, you know, you're probably waiting on tables someplace. And then he shows up on this set of Buffy. And I went, [laughing] "Marc, you’re really an actor! Congratulations, this is wonderful!" So I, when I came back as this reanimated corpse, Marc was, I can't even remember why now, Marc was, kind of tied up in a laboratory or whatever and I was going to inject him with some serious type of poison. So I had this huge hypodermic needle and part of being a reanimated corpse, I discovered, is that they have kind of inner sight, so their eyes are dead. So I had to wear totally occluded, totally clouded up contact lenses. So it meant I couldn't see. But I had to make an entrance into a laboratory, turn left, [laughing] aim this hypodermic at Marc and get him in the arm and inject this stuff. [Kristin and Lindsay laughing.] And I couldn't see a damn thing. [Laughing] I said to Mark, look, I'm going to— I used to be a dancer— I had to do many physical things on stage. And I said, this shouldn't be too hard. I'll figure out how many steps this way, how many steps that way and the level of my arm. But I won't know truly how close I am to you. So I could be heading with this thing to your eye, to your ear, [Kristin laughing] to this side of your neck, you know, to your chest. So you just yell cut because I can't.
Kristin: Right, right. So this is like an actual sharp thing that you're walking with?
Lindsay: Yeah, you know, it was one of those needles that would retract into the tube, but still.
Kristin: Yeah.
Lindsay: It's a thing headed for his face or whatever. We tried a number of takes and the first couple I ended up totally off base, like somewhere around his chin or the back of his head or something, or in his hair and he never would yell cut. I said, "Marc, why don't you yell cut, I won't like risk your life?" He said, "Because you know, you might hit me someplace and it'll be better! It'll be better." [Both laughing] Like what? Like right your eyes? This will be more dramatic.
Kristin: Oh my gosh.
Lindsay: He was always very willing.
Kristin: That's incredible. It's incredible that you knew each other before you did the show.
Lindsay: Isn’t that cute? Yeah.
Kristin: I love that. I would love to hear from you too about the set of the Initiative. We refer to the initiative set as the tinfoil basement because it's just like literally so much tinfoil. And so I'm wondering what it was like to work on that set, and if you remember seeing it for the first time?
Lindsay: I do, it was really extraordinary. I just thought, oh my god, it's amazing what people put all their efforts into. And it did. I mean, it was so much fun that way actually, because I'm a creature of the theater. I come from the theater. And in the theater there's so many simple things that you use that will stand for something else and it's part of the fun.
Kristin: Right.
Lindsay: And yeah, I, it's like the pack on my back, it looked like, you know, two teenage kids had made it, [both laughing] and it was just great. I loved it.
Kristin: Is there anything else about your time on the show that you wanted to share with us that I didn't ask you about?
Lindsay: I think just that I was grateful for the time that I had on the show. I think that Buffy was like many great television shows, a very special iteration of what television can be. And I think the commitment of all the actors that were on it, the lovely, lovely cast, the superb direction, the fun of it, the adventure of it was a really nice relief from cop shows and the lawyers and judges and other parts that I tend to play on television. And I had a good time, so I was, I was grateful and it's a nice memory.
Kristin: Well, we had a wonderful time with you as well.
Lindsay: Thank you.
Kristin: [Laughing] So much so.
Kristin: Thank you for, for being our very favorite Bitch Monster— Evil Bitch Monster. There will never be another. [Both laughing.] [CHIME]
Kristin: Oh my gosh. Talking to Lindsay Crouse was such a joy. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you again to her. So special. You know what else is special, Jenny?
Jenny: When you're strolling through the caves…
Kristin: Uh-huh?
Jenny: … looking for some big freaky demon-human-robot guy, then oops, you just bump into Spike. What's he doing down here?
Kristin: And then he calls you Nancy Drew in a way that makes me—
Jenny: It’s kinda hot!
Kristin: Yeah. Theres something… I don't know about these two, but I will get to the sexual tension awards later. And I'm just going to throw a hat in the ring for this moment because, uh, yeah. Cause you see he's like calling her Goldilocks in another episode, he's calling her Nancy Drew. I already discussed how Spike feels about people who might be able to kick his ass.
Jenny: Right. Yep.
Kristin: So a theory and it's not bunnies. Wait, wait!
Jenny: Yes?
Kristin: Before we go, I just would like to give a shout out [Kristin laughs] to zombie Forrest just before we left the other scene, who says, [imitating Forrest] "God has nothing to do with it." [Jenny laughs.]
Kristin: [Normal voice] Thank you. Okay. So Spike blows his cover.
Jenny: Yeah, he, uh, really fucks up.
Kristin: He keeps fucking up and it's—
Jenny: —it’s almost like he wants to get caught and punished.
Kristin: Right? It's almost like he maybe wants to keep that buck in chip in his head saying. So we cut from this scene to what I'm going to begin the goddamn scene with a jingle. [HELLMATH jingle plays] Hellmath!
Kristin: Willow was like, "Oh, it wasn't an asymmetric algorithm. It was a hexagonic key pattern the whole time!"
Jenny: Of course. Anyone with a lab coat knows that.
Kristin: But of course she doesn't get to crack the code and she's very adorably Willow about it, right? She's like excited that they have the information but also mostly bummed that she didn't get to do it herself.
Jenny: Mh-hmm.
Kristin: We cut back to—
Jenny: Wait, wait, wait, wait! Buffy calls for Willow and fucking Tara. It's like, yeah, she's right here— I mean— hang on. Let me see if she's available.
Kristin: Tara not great with doors.
Jenny: Don’t hire Tara as your secretary please. [Both laughing] She’s your secre-Tara. Sorry.
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: So please go on.
Kristin: So we go and there's this a little bit of… this is a rough episode for sexual tension in general, but I do think that Forrest, zombie Forrest is really hot for something [Jenny laughs] and I can't really figure out what it is. But this next scene he's like, [imitating zombie Forrest] "You're wrong man. I'm surging with life." [Regular voice] So we sort of learned here that what— this is interesting. It's almost like Adam is making like servant demonoids, and then Adam demonoids.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: It's like, cause professor Walsh is like kind of mindlessly doing, what?
Jenny: They're not even demonoids, they're just—
Kristin: Reanimated drones
Jenny: They’re workers.
Kristin: They're the worker bees, but is not and Forrest is not.
Jenny: Which kind of seems to me to indicate that maybe like Forrest didn't die when he was impaled.
Kristin: Oh!
Jenny: Maybe! I mean Adam's human body was dead. Like the human parts of him were dead. But if it feels… this kind of makes me feel like Forrest remained alive and perhaps in critical condition while he was disassembled and reassembled.
Kristin: Forrest was like, [imitating zombie Forrest] "Come on, man. It's always been my fantasy to be a zombie sleeping with zombie Riley, please man."
Jenny: Also the way that he goes [grunting sound] "mmm, mmm," [Kristin laughs] and like windshield wiper wags his finger. [Both laughing.]
Kristin: Also, he tells Riley that he has, that they have some choice parts for him. [Jenny laughing] To that I say, sir, which parts?
Jenny: I think we already— we've already discussed— I think we already know when we've already named them within this episode.
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: Also he says he's free of all his weaknesses and doubts. [Both laugh.]
Kristin: Wow. Jenny and I are here for it today. He then tells Riley to be a good boy, or maybe Adam tells him to be a good boy. Or maybe Maggie does that.
Jenny: I think professor Walsh does that.
Kristin: Somebody tells him to be a good boy.
Jenny: And then she gives them a shot.
Kristin: And then we go to campus where we have this summoning circle. [Jenny laughs] Scoobies, right? Where Buffy is sort of saying like, "Hey, who told you the information that pissed you off?" And everybody sheepishly…
Jenny: Is like, "oh, it was Spike…"
Kristin: "Why he got us again!"
Jenny: "He's such a naughty boy!"
Kristin: "What a villain!" So they all find out that Spike got them. And of course they don't feel better because as aforementioned, these things are real for them and they're thrown off. What I kind of like about like how this conversation happens throughout the episode is that they're not talking about like they've been feeling off for a little while. They really are all like, "Hey, this whole season is kind of felt… like we’ve been getting off track as Scoobies." And like, you know, Willow later talks about like, "Well it was our first year in college." Which is crazy to me when I watch episodes from season four at the beginning, I'm like, oh my God, when we started, it feels like 400 years ago. When you think about the fact that when we started the season, they were just beginning college, you know?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Anyway, we'll get more into it in a bit. Spike is working for Adam. They figure that out.
Jenny: The disks included plans about Adam making his cyber demonoid army. Do you think those disks were ever in his chest slot?
Kristin: [Laughing] Do you think he shits them out?
Jenny: [Laughing] Oh, Jesus.
Kristin: Like how does Adam eject those desks is what I'm wondering. But also, I don't want to know.
Jenny: Also the initiative sales are just overflowing with demons, which prompted me to try to come up with a portmanteau that would…
Kristin: Did you say a portmanteau? [trying to pronounce portmanteau] Is it a port-man-toe or a port-man-too or port man—
Jenny: Okay, so I covered this with Rishi and the proper vowel sound is, "OH" at the end. But it's portMANteau. PortMANteau. I've been practicing in the mirror. So I tried to come up with a Trojan horse demons portmanteau and what I— I'm going to tell you my— I didn't spend very long on it, so I'm going to invite everybody else to come up with better ones—
Kristin: Great!
Jenny: —and send them to us. But mine are, just to get you started. [both laughing] They’re so bad! They're not even portmanteaus they're port-man-phrases or something, you know? Cause it's two words there.
Kristin: They’re the poor man's portmanteau? [Kristin laughs.]
Jenny: Exactly, yeah. So, on one side we have demon horse. Trojan horse, demon horse. I said they were bad. This is just to get it going. And Trojan orc, you're welcome.
Kristin: Oh, great.
Jenny: So I don't think orcs exist in the Buffyverse, but they're like kind of demonic.
Kristin: Okay. Trojan orc. It’s not bad.
Jenny: I think it's pretty bad.
Kristin: I’m think our listeners will do better.
Jenny: But yeah, I just didn't have a lot of time.
Kristin: Yeah, that's great. Well, good call to action. I'm also— the one thing I want to talk about before we go to the next scene is Xander's saying, "Does anyone miss the Mayor? Just wanted to be a snake."
Jenny: Just wanted to be a big snake!
Kristin: To which I think we all say, yeah, we all fucking miss the Mayor. We all wish that we had the mayor right now, but we don't. Adam is using some chunk of his demon self that can sense things and he says, [imitating Adam] "She's coming, I can feel it." Fuck you, man.
Jenny: He’s gross! [Ad music plays in the background throughout.]
Kristen: Today’s episode is brought to you by Pretty Litter. Pretty Litter makes life as a cat owner, which I am, very easy. A bag of Pretty Litter weighs up to 80% less than most other litter, and it lasts an entire month. Unlike conventional litter, Pretty Litter’s super absorbent crystals trap and eliminate moisture. No smell, no mess. It also does a ton for your cat’s health. It changes color to detect underlying illnesses before urgent medical care is needed. Saving you money, stress, and potentially your cat’s life. And unlike other conventional litters that contain ingredients and additives that can be damaging to your cat’s health, Pretty Litter is created from naturally occurring minerals, is safe for your cat, and it’s virtually dust free. I am a cat owner, as you might know. I have two cats now, Sam and Gus, they are wonderful. They wake me up really early in the morning. But I will say that Pretty Litter is amazing for a lot of reasons. I love it and I also love the fact that I don’t
have to remember to get litter. That’s something that I struggle with: remembering. It helps me in that department, too. You can make the switch to Pretty Litter today. Just go to prettylittler.com and use the promocode BUFFY. You’ll get 20% off your first order. That’s prettylitter.com, promo code BUFFY.
Jenny: Support for today’s show comes from HelloFresh. HelloFresh makes slaying meal time a reality with deliciously simple recipes and fresh, premeasured ingredients delivered to your door. All meals come together in thirty minutes max, call for less than two pots and pans, and require minimal clean up. Plus with three plans to choose from, including classic, veggie, and family, there’s something for everyone. So get out of that recipe rut and start cooking outside of your comfort zone. For those of you who subsist on the blood of the living, I guess meal time is pretty cut and dry, but for the rest of us there’s HelloFresh. I have been using Hellofresh for a while now, and as a carbon-based life form that needs to eat food to survive, but also doesn’t have a ton of spare time, I am so over the moon for it. The meals are delivered directly to my door. Convenient! The chefs of HelloFresh are always cooking up fresh recipes. No pun intended, but really I get how it looks like I meant to do that. And every HelloFresh meal I’ve ever prepared has been delicious. For $80 off your first month of HelloFresh, go to hellofresh.com/buffering80 and enter the code BUFFERING80. That’s hellofresh.com/buffering80 and enter the code BUFFERING80 for $20 off your first four boxes.
Kristin: Today’s episode is also brought to you by PodCoin. Did you know that you can actually get paid just for listening to this podcast? It might sound out of the ordinary, but it’s true, and you can do it with a new, free app called PodCoin. It
literally pays you to listen to podcasts. Here’s how it works: you listen to podcasts and earn PodCoin while you listen. Then you turn the PodCoin in for gift cards at places like Amazon or Starbucks. Or if you want to use it to give back, you can even donate the PodCoin to charity. The more you listen, the more you earn. You can download the PodCoin app right now on your iPhone or your Android, and use our code BUFFY. You’ll get 300 PodCoin just for signing up. And if you listen to enough of us on there, you can go ahead and get yourself some free coffee or some stuff on Amazon. Listen to this podcast, or virtually any podcast on PodCoin, and sign up with the code BUFFY to start earning today. It’ll change the way you listen to podcasts. [Ad music fades out.]
Kristin: And then we go to Giles's.
Jenny: and Xander's like, "If only we could call upon the powers of Gray Skull and make a Megazord," or whatever the fuck.
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah, earth, wind, fire, water, whatever.
Jenny: Choose your property, where people combine stuff.
Kristin: And Giles is like, "Holy shit."
Jenny: Giles… I don't know if he actually takes his glasses off or if I just imagine, like it's just ingrained in my brain that he would be like taking them off and being like, [imitating Giles] "Actually, [Kristin laughs] you've got a point." [Normal voice] Then it's time to belay.
Kristin: Yes! I wrote, Jenny, in my notes: Ha, ha, ha, ha, belay on!
Jenny: I also wrote belay on.
Kristin: Oh, so I said the right thing? Jenny, taught me belay on and belay yourself. What’s the other one?
Jenny: You say belay, and then you'd say belay on. And then you say climbing and then you'd say, climb on. Well that's two people. One person says the "ons" and one person says the "not ons."
Kristin: Got it. So yeah, they're belaying! They're belaying.
Jenny: I guess they're technically repelling.
Kristin: Oh my God.
Jenny: But I'm…
Kristin: Will somebody… You know who else you're repelling?  
Jenny: [laughs] Oh fuck! Our listenership?
Kristin: Um, well me, but probably not our listenership. Okay, so—
Jenny: They love me. They gave me a lab coat, Kristin!
Kristin: They gave me a lab coat too, Jen-ny.
Jenny: I don't remember— I don't remember that part.
Kristin: Uh-huh.
Jenny: So Buffy and Willow make up—
Kristin: But, hold on, before that, I just, I just, there's a really wonderful Giles line when they're walking in before they start belaying and repelling and whatever the hell else, where he says to Xander, "Xander, just because this isn't going to work doesn't mean you should be negative," [both laugh] which is nice.
Jenny: Great.
Kristin: Okay. So yeah, so Willow and Buffy. I think this is important for a couple of reasons. One, the bigger piece of this, which is their insecurities, but two, because like we had this coming out moment a couple of episodes ago.
Jenny: Mh-hmm.
Kristin: And I think that this is really nice because as so many of us know, coming out is not a onetime thing. It is a thing where like you have the initial moment and then you have to unpack stuff later and they're not specifically just doing that here, but I think it has a piece of it.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Buffy also calls herself out on something that we often call Buffy out on and says, "I've been so wrapped up in my own stuff."
Jenny: Classic Buffy!
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: As a wise man in London once told us it's almost as if she's just like, "The weight of the world is on my shoulders."
Kristin: Which is actually what Willow kind of says, she's like, "Well your stuff is kind of important." And Buffy's like, "Well actually, I mean Riley, you know." And then Willow is like, "Also I was keeping secrets too, but I wanted to tell you, but I was so scared." [Jenny squeals.] You know what we should talk about for a second, cause we haven't had a chance to, we shared it on social media, but when Kate and I talked about new moon rising, we were like, wow, this coming out moment was so powerful. Like Marti Noxon, just Noxon-ing it out of the park and like—
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: Yeah, I've been sitting on that one for awhile. [Both laughing.]
Jenny: Wooow.
Kristin: And then we learned from you all that Marti Noxon has two moms and then Marti Noxon tweeted at us. "Yeah, my two moms just celebrated their 40th wedding anniversary." [Jenny squeals.]
Kristin: [Excited sounds] So anyway, um, I think that Marti Noxon’s input into this show as the child of two queer women or lesbian women, I don't know how they identify, is like why we get some of this really powerful stuff that does seem just so informed. Yeah, that Willow was scared to tell her best friend cause that's scary. We get it, Will.
Jenny: Mh-hmm!
Kristin: Okay, they love each other, they hug, Xander comes down, they hug Xander. And Xander—this is nice, right? Cause like Xander can often make things like "womp womp" and be like, "Hey look at these two ladies hugging me and one of them's gay. " And like, he doesn't do that here. He is just like, "Oh man, my pals!" And then he's like, "Giles, get down here quick, man! This really sweet thing is happening."
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: Okay—
Jenny: So then they pry open the elevator doors and the Initiative is waiting for them with guns.
Kristin: Yes. And Spike has failed Adam once again.
Jenny: And Adam's like, [imitating Adam] "Take his head off."
Kristin: Yeah, [laughs] Adam suddenly becomes a Queen of Hearts.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Off with his head! Spike does a move that I— is high up in my ranking— takes his fucking cigarette and puts it out in Forrest’s eye. [Jenny groans.]
Kristin: I mean I don't love the eye thing, but I love Spike using a cigarette as his weapon, I think.
Jenny: Yeah…
Kristin: Pretty—
Both: —on-brand.
Jenny: Sure.
Kristin: And are pretty great. I also really love what happens to Forrest’s burned eye. It like loses its color.
Jenny: Just milks over, which is not, I think, what would actually happen if you burned an eye with a cigarette. Please don't try—
Kristin: No.
Jenny: —to let us know.
Kristin: I would like to know from our scientists though like, is there any scientific—
Jenny: What the fuck?
Kristin: What? Oh that you're a scientist?
Jenny: That’s right!
Kristin: Cause you have a fucking lab coat?
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: Well if you're a scientist that earned your lab coat in ways that are not talking about Buffy the Vampire Slayer [laughs]…
Jenny: [sarcastically] Okay…
Kristin: … and hunks, I would love to know if there's any truth to color coming out of an eye from heat. Like, is that a thing or is that just probably just an effect?
Jenny: [disgusted sound]
Kristin: Okay. We're into a segments of the show that I believe can start off with a jingle. [THE PATRIARCHY jingle plays] The patriarchy! [thunder clap, evil laughter]
Kristin: This general, [imitating] "I know every and show this lab, ah, no, a tick of a mouse if it got in here." [Normal voice] Ugh.
Jenny: This is exactly the kind of overconfidence that, if you possess it, you can be certain it's— you're about to die.
Kristin: Yeah, exactly. It's also just a really white dude-ly, a little white dude-ly thing to do.
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: And of course we're positioning like, I think like structures, organizational structures against heart as we talked about in the beginning of the episode. And guess what side of the line the patriarchy falls on? The organizational structure side.
Jenny: Ah!
Kristin: And it doesn't get very far. And Buffy, to her credit and their credit, they're really trying to help here.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Like they're really trying to be like, "Dude, can you just stop with the patriarchy for a second and like, listen to us because you don't know what you're talking about?" And of course he can't hear that. Also there's the moment where the general is like, [imitating] "You’re already are bringing weapons in here," [normal voice] and he holds up the gourd.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Which he'll talk about a couple of times more in this.
Jenny: I mean, it's a magic gourd, in his defense.
Kristin: In his defense. And he is told it's a magic gourd. They're locked in. They’re all locked in.
Jenny: Yeah, just as he tells them how absolutely in control he is, all the power goes out. All the exits are locked down.
Kristin: [Laughs] Do you know, do you know how the power gets turned off, Jenny? [Jenny laughs.]
Kristin: Cause Adam, with the longest fingernails known to man— we get, not one, but two separate clips of B roll of Adam's mother fucking fingernails clicking on [both laughing] like a lovely lady out of like a… it reminds me of like, the women who used to—
Jenny: [Laughing] A lovely lady!
Kristin: —the women who, who like ran the switchboards when phones needed switchboards and they were like, "Alpha data, blah blah," whatever.
Jenny: [Laughing] Oh yeah.
Kristin: Like I feel like that's Adam in this room. He's like, [imitating nails tapping] clickity clack. [Both laughing.]
Jenny: And all the demon containment cell doors are unlocked and opened and they immediately start attacking all the lab coat clad scientists. And you know what, this reminded me of a lot?
Kristin: I gave it a name actually.
Jenny: What'd you give it?
Kristin: I called it the Battle of Tinfoil Alley. [Both laughing] What’d you call it?
Jenny: That’s pretty good. It also reminded me a lot of Cabin in the Woods. 
Kristin: Oh the, sorry I got ahead of myself. Yes. The release of the demons, totally.
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: And Cabin in the Woods —now is the time to watch it while you're watching season four because certainly so much of some of the pieces of Cabin in the Woods were pulled directly from here.
Jenny: They were like, what if we had a budget, and no Adam, and also some like totally different ideas about this, but also just like a few of the same ideas.
Kristin: It’s such great movie. It's kind of like how Chicago was a great city, but then it burned down and they were like, let's do it even better.
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: And that's why Chicago like you get alleyways for your garbage. It's very nice and all that, like New York. Great metaphor.
Jenny: Also Chris Hemsworth before he was famous is in Cabin in the Woods and he is, he looks great.
Kristin: You just want to use your lab coat right now? For your little Hunkology?
Jenny: Yeah, I've got my lab coat, I've got my title. It's before he got all Thor-jacked up. So like he's like a lean hot. It's pretty good.
Kristin: Also, it's not a big deal, but my friend Kristen is in Cabin in the Woods, so whatever.
Jenny: Also true.
Kristin: Okay, so battle of tinfoil alley: My favorite moment—no—I have two favorite moments in the— Oh, you have a little sentimental face on Jenny?
Jenny: [High pitched] Yeah!
Kristin: Go ahead.
Jenny: The Scoobies set up to do their spell, and Xanders like, "I still don't like you going in alone," and Buffy’s like, "I won't be." [Jenny squeals.]
Kristin: Yeah, no, that's very— I know. I want to talk about that, this whole thing cause it's pretty massive. But can I tell you my two favorite moments from the Battle of Tinfoil Alley that are not sentimental?
Jenny: Please.
Kristin: Okay. One is the, the clip of what I call the snake man. There's just like a man like climbing out of the tinfoil pit and there's like a weird snake like tentacles wrapping around him.
Jenny: You know, I would go like octopus or squid, cause there's… the snake is just kind of a line.
Kristin: You're right, it's tentacles. It's many, many tentacles. If you could see the knowing, [Jenny laughs] the "I know how to identify, weird rope like shitty special effects tentacles Jenny Owen Youngs" face that I'm getting right now. The other, my other favorite moment for the battle of tinfoil alley happens later and it's when the Scoobies have to go through the Battle of Tinfoil Alley to get to the room where they set up to do their magic. And it [laughs] it is because of you go back and you look at them while they run through, Giles is clutching the magic gourd. [Jenny laughs.]
Kristin: He’s holding it so carefully running through the battle because they fucking need that gourd.
Jenny: Yep. Yep.
Kristin: So one thing I want to say is that Willow uses the electrical grid before they get to the secret little place to do their magic, to find the secret lab, which I find incredibly hot. And I'd to play her jingle. [WILLOW jingle plays] Who knows the square root of 1,225? Willow! Who is gentle of heart and nimble with a hard drive? Willow! Willow, Willow, Willow!
Kristin: Okay. So now we're here in sentimental alley, Jenny, where your face [Jenny laughs] got a little earlier, but yeah. She's not going in alone because they're doing this pretty crazy spell that makes Buffy a vessel, for not only all of their powers, but also the daughter of [trying to pronounce Siniah] Si-nay-uh?. Si-nigh-ah? Is that how they said it? I forget how they pronounced it because I wrote it.
Jenny: Uhh, I don’t remember!
Kristin: But the, the First Slayer, they're calling upon the powers of the First Slayer in addition to Spiritis, the spirit, who is Willow. [Jenny laughing.]
Kristin: [Laughing] You're gonna laugh at me? You’re gonna laugh at me while I try to pronounce these words.?
Jenny: [Laughing] Yeah!
Kristin: Such a supportive pal. Animus, the heart, which is Xander. Sofus, which is mind and is Giles. And Manis, which is hand and is Buffy. And this is, you know, we’re a spoiler free podcast. So we haven't talked about this sort of like demarcation of the Scoobies yet. It's kind of the reason why I'll be trying to convince Jenny to go through the series an entire other time. [Jenny laughs.]
Kristin: I mean, you know, there's so many times already in this series where we've seen them play out these roles and we haven't called it out because we didn't
want to spoil this moment where they really do underline it for us: what they're bringing to the table. And of course they all bring multiple things to the table, but if we're going to distill them down to their essence, this is really it.
Jenny: Yeah. [Sarcastically] That everybody has a function, a place for everything, everything in its place. We're stronger together. [Regular voice] How am I doing?
Kristin: You're doing great. And— [Jenny laughs] yeah. Right, I know. I was going to say we'll get to some more sentimental stuff like as they really do occupy Buffy and the fight begins. But before that, there's a couple of fucking ridiculous things that I think we need to talk about.
Jenny: Oh my gosh. Buffy finds Riley, Riley can't talk to her. Oh my gosh. She sees the zombie/reanimated corpses. Adam's like, "He can't talk to you. He's not programmed to." And then he's like, "Forrest kill Buffy." And then Riley is like "B-B-B-Buffy!" We started to see him take a little bit of control of himself with his— [crosstalk]
Kristin: His eyes!
Jenny: yeah, his eyes are like all wild. And Forrest [clears throat dramatically] says [imitating Forrest] "Shut up and watch me kill your girlfriend." [Kristin laughs, Jenny giggles.]
Kristin: The things that make Jenny giggle like a lady are really great. [Imitates Jenny giggling.]
Jenny: He’s so stupid! Forrest is so stupid.
Kristin: Forrest is pretty stupid. Also, like, the response that Adam has to Buffy makes me fucking die. Where she like walks in and he's like telling her that she's going to do a bunch of shit. He's like— she's like, "I don't jump through hoops. I don't like—I don't play your game, man" is basically her message and he just goes, "Oh… kill her." [Both laughing.]
Kristin: He's like kind of intrigued and he is like, even as he's dying, like even as the fight is getting more intense later, like… I hate Adam, I hate everything about Adam, but one thing that I'm kind of into about Adam is that like even as he's gonna be destroyed, he really is a seeker of any kind of knowledge and this is not a knowledge he learned in any of his books.
Jenny: Mh-hmm.
Kristin: So he really is like, "Huh, what is happening here? I would like to learn."
Jenny: Yeah, yeah. Then… [Both laughing.]
Kristin: Are you going to talk about the arm? Is that why you're laughing?
Jenny: I'm gonna talk about Riley sweatily cutting the chip out of his own chest.
Kristin: Jesus Christ.
Jenny: It goes on for so long. There's so much… sweat.
Kristin: [Disgusted] Oh, also he holds it up like a weird piece of bacon.
Jenny: [Laughs] A weird piece of bacon. [Kristin laughs] Then he hops up and yanks the blood tubes out of the zombies. [Kristin groans, Jenny laughs.]
Kristin: Disgusting!
Jenny: And it's time for Riley and Forrest, the final showdown! [Kristin imitates dramatic music, Jenny harmonizes dramatically.]
Kristin: So meanwhile fucking— [laughs] Buffy’s like, "I broke your arm," or like "Your arm broke," or whatever the fuck she says.
Jenny: Oh cause he whips out his [inaudible] out of Spike and she snaps it.
Kristin: [Overlapping] She breaks it. And he's like, "I got another," and then it's like the Terminator up in here like [imitating alarm] "Wah wah wah!" And his arm extends, too. Then we go from Terminator to like… the Sopranos? I don't even know.
Jenny: Yeah, It's a big…
Kristin: Like a Tommy gun? Is that what you call that?
Jenny: Yeah, it's kind of like a automatic bazooka Tommy gun kind of thing.
Kristin: Yeah, it’s just really silly.
Jenny: It’s really dumb. I would love to know what percentage of the budget was spent on that CGI. Cause I feel like it, well actually it gets, I guess we're about to get a fucking face full of CGI.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Really this room is all about it.
Kristin: Yeah, it's not the best decision that's ever been made to make his arm turn into a gun. I highly, highly prefer when Rose McGowan's leg is a gun, in whatever that movie is.
Jenny: Mh-hmm!
Kristin: That's another story for another day. But one fun thing that does happen is
Adam makes a joke: [Imitating Adam] "I've been upgrading." [Normal voice] Actually, he doesn't even mean it doesn't joke. He's legitimately—
Jenny: It's just like very matter, right?
Kristin: He's like, "I'm on operating system 2.0 right now."
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And then Buffy’s eyes are like snap, snap, yellow. So we know there was a contact specialist on site in this episode.
Jenny: Uh-huh, uh-huh, uh-huh.
Kristin: Um, and she started speaking in, I would, I would imagine as Sumerian.
Jenny: We would have to believe is Sumerian.
Kristin: Meanwhile Riley and Forrest, uh, their fight ends [Jenny laughs] when—
Jenny: With a bang, but not the kind of bang Forrest was hoping for.
Kristin: Ooohhh! Ayoo! Nice one, Jenny.
Jenny: Thank you!
Kristin: Then Buffy, via the first Slayer and the Scoobies, turns bullets into doves, which is also an interesting choice [laughs].
Jenny: Wow, it’s a classic close-up magic trick.
Kristin: The opposite of bullets— [Crosstalk]
Jenny: It’s bullets into doves.
Kristin: It’s some doves! [Kristin laughs.]
Jenny: Yeah. And then she makes Adam's gun retract.
Kristin: Oh my god. Yeah. Which would have been cooler if it was, what's the episode with the werewolf guy where she bends the gun in half with her actual strength?
Jenny: That's Phases.
Kristin: Is it Phases? Yeah, it would have been cool if, if instead of it like retracting on itself, it just like bent, you know?
Jenny: But then we would've had to watch Adam with like a weird…
Both: …bent arm…
Kristin: Forever. "You could never hope to grasp the source of our power," she says to Adam then rips his—
Jenny: Dude!
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: She does this like wild flying bicycle kick thing across the room.
Kristin: I like that.
Jenny: Then she plunges her tiny fist into his disgusting chest cavity, yanks out some weird glowing toys cylinder that she bought at Spencer gifts [Kristin laughs] that seems to be covered in gack and macaroni and cheese. Actually it kind of looks like something from Ren and Stimpy. That's really—
Kristin: Ohh!
Jenny: Cause of all the like sweet potato root points coming off of it.
Kristin: Wow! Nice reference, Jenny. It really does.
Jenny: Yes, well…
Kristin: And she says, "but yours is right here." Um, and I'm kinda into the, the lines here. "You can't grasp a source of our power." "Yours is right here." I'm not into the Ren and Stimpy uranium thing.
Jenny: Gross!
Kristin: And what I'm really not into is that it floats [both laugh] up out of her hand.
Jenny: I actually blacked that out.
Kristin: She erases that. So Adam is dead. Adam is destroyed.
Jenny: Wow! We thought that it couldn't be done.
Kristin: [Sarcastically] Yeah, we're all really sad to see him go.
Jenny: Um, now that he's gone, I kind of miss him.
Kristin: I do, I want to say, just going back into the fight scene for a second. So I've, I have some feelings. A, I the CGI I like is the like water CGI. Like the guns. The guns hitting the…
Jenny: The guns hitting the water wall.
Kristin: It's really cool. And I'm it and I think like, you know, this is like the short of CGI, so most of it is pretty not great, but I think that this is a CGI effect that was so effective that like, I know it's been improved but we still see this. They reminded me of like, I don't know, like X-Men or I feel like we've seen, I've seen this effect used in more recent times for other Sci-Fi/Fantasy sort of genre stuff. And I don't know, Jenny, I just feel like we should talk about the fact that the Scoobies have always worked as one. I mean it's kind of the thing, right? It's the, she's, Buffy is a Slayer and she's different from all the other Slayers because she
has a crew, she has support. And so I have a few things to say about that: One, we just came off Prom. I'm having a lot of feelings.
Jenny: Mh-hmm, mh-hmm.
Kristin: And obviously this is like also the source of our power here at Buffering the Vampire Slayer and like that, like people can't touch the source of our power, and that the community that we have is so strong because we lift each other up, and it's just, I have a lot of feelings about it. [Jenny clears her throat.]
Kristin: And this episode and so many episodes in the series underline that. That like we are more when we are together. We are more powerful when we work as a team. We all have different strengths that we bring to the table.
Jenny: Mh-hmm.
Kristin: When we call upon them, we can destroy evil. So I just have a lot of feelings and this episode was watched right after a lot of things happened at the Prom and I think it's important. And then just in the arc of the show in general, I want to say that, whereas the Scoobies had been working together forever and that's been a point of reference for us many times. I think that after their first year of like— we're sort of getting to the end of their first year of college. Um, we've been through a lot. Willow has come out. Xander is really facing things in his life. Giles has had to face what it's like to not be employed as a, you know, as part of the Watchers Council. Buffy has had to get over the loss of Angel and start to date again. Like Willow has had to get over the loss— They've been through like some real shit. And I do think that they are coming together. And this is what—this is the deal with like long-term relationships or friendships—long-term relationships of any kind, love, friendship, whatever, is that people change and grow and when you can grow and change with them and move with them, that's also really powerful. So I just think that it's… it's not just a repeat of, "Oh, the Scoobies are together." It's like we've seen them grow and change and they're coming together again and they're coming together in a different way now because of all that change.
Jenny: Mh-hmm, mh-hmm, mh-hmm.
Kristin: I'm done with my monologue. Thank you all for listening.
Jenny: Great monologue.
Kristin: Thank you so much.
Jenny: Thank you so much.
Kristin: [Laughing] So then Spike fucking just strolls in.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, and he saves them and they're like, "You just did that so we wouldn't kill you." And he's like, "Yeah, did it… did it work?" And they're like, "We're tired."
Kristin: [Laughing] Yeah, they’re like… [crosstalk]
Jenny: "We’re too tired to you kill you, Spike."
Kristin: And then he's like, "Let's go save ‘em, by gum!" Which I—
Jenny: Oh my god, what a joy.
Kristin: He's such a doof. And then Buffy comes in, you know, it's like sort of, they're all together again. Riley and Buffy come in and the Scoobies are there, and Spike is there, and we sort of cut to the patriarchy.
Jenny: Okay, this little spiel.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: The Initiative was a failed experiment. It will be erased and filled in with concrete.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And then they, on behalf of all of us, say "Burn it down and salt the earth!" [Kristin laughing] And we're like, "Thank you! Thank you so much! "
Kristin: It's interesting because it's not often that we see like somebody in position— like I think the general and then his commanding officer or whatever, I don't know how things work with rank in the army, but there's sort of positioned as these like very stubborn pigheaded, you know, men who are like, "We can do anything," and like whatever. So I did find it interesting, that this man was acknowledging essentially "We can't." Like demons cannot be controlled. And like we tried it and it failed.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: It's like I'm into that cause there cause he cause he's right, like he's right. They should burn it and salt it to the ground both because this is a power that is greater than theirs and they can't control it or contain it. And also because, Jesus Christ, can we be done with the initiative now?
Jenny: Uh-huh!
Kristin: So Jenny?
Jenny: Yes?
Kristin: Do you want to get a little sexy?
Jenny: Always. [SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays] Sexual tension award!
Jenny: Hello and welcome to this installment of the 2019 Sexual Attention Awards
for Season Four, Episode 21: Primeval.
Kristin: How exciting. We haven't gotten to do these together either in a little while.
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: What a delight.
Jenny: What a delight, indeed.
Kristin: Well, I'm sorry that I had to announce the winners for the Yoko Factor up in the intro. I know you love when we do that together, but you see, we haven't even— I haven't even nominated them as of this taping. So as much as I wish I could use my Time Turner, I cannot.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: So our first nominee for Primeval is a thruple. So glad to have a thruple here nominated.
Jenny: Hooray!
Kristin: It is the thruple of Spike, Riley, and Adam. [Jenny laughs] Because these three boys with chips and various parts of their bodies want to do it together. You know what I'm saying? Chip on chip on chip.
Jenny: Ummmmm… Hmmmmmm… [Laughing.]
Kristin: How about this, Jenny: hunk on hunk on Frankenstein. [Both laughing.]
Jenny: I'll take it. Cool. Next up, because the episode, this episode's pickings are slim.
Kristin: They really are.
Jenny: But because she seems genuinely interested and invested in pursuing this, Willow and decryption. Decryption? Decryptitude?
Kristin: Uncryption.
Jenny: Disin-cryptin-tion.
Kristin: [Singing to the tune of "Un-Break My Heart" by Toni Braxton] Uncrypt my code. [Both laughing.]
Kristin: [Speaking] Our third nominee is Spike and Buffy because of all those nicknames.
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: You know what I’m saying?
Jenny: He's like, "Got a magnifying glass? Don't need one!"
Kristin: He’s like, "Where's your lady trench coat to go with my man trench coat?" [Laughing] I gotta go. Okay.
Jenny: And our last nomination…
Kristin: Of course.
Jenny: …if this doesn't win, I'm going to be very upset, is Zombie Forrest and Riley because, [both laughing] well, you know why listen to this whole episode.
Kristin: Choice parts.
Jenny : Yeah, choice parts.
Kristin: Okay.
Jenny: So please join us. Make your voice heard in our democracy. Find the Twitter poll at @bufferingcast for this, and every episode’s sexual tension awards. Vote and be merry. Thank you.
Kristin: On Twitter. Did you say on Twitter? On Twitter.
Jenny: Yeah. I said on Twitter.
Kristin: Great!
Jenny: It’s a Twitter poll! [SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays] Sexual tension award!
Kristin: All right.
Both: Well!
Kristin: Jenny, I've got the fire. Do you have the salt? You know what I'm saying?
Jenny: I know what you're saying and I do.
Kristin: Great. Well, wow! We get to end an episode together in real time.
Jenny: How fun!
Kristin: That’s also fun.
Jenny: Mh-hmm, mh-hmm, mh-hmm. [Silence.]
Jenny: Oh! I remember how to do it. Don’t worry! [Kristin laughing.]
Jenny: I, of course, am Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: Are you sure? You hesitated.
Jenny: Resident Hunkologist, lab coat owner, and co-host of this podcast. When I'm not making this podcast and watching Buffy, I'm writing songs and you can hear some of them and learn more about me at JennyOwenYoungs.com/buffering.
Kristin: Do any of your songs sound like [singing to the tune of "Un-Break My Heart" by Toni Braxton]uncrypt my— [speaking] sorry. Jokes usually come in threes. That's all.
Jenny: [laughing] Oh boy. And you can always give me a shout on Twitter at @JennyOwenYoungs.
Kristin: Yeah! Oh Gus just laid his little head down. Look at him, Jenny. [Jenny squeals.]
Kristin: Oh, well Jenny’s squeal just woke Gus up.
Jenny: Yeah, he doesn't…
Kristin: Gus is my new cat who's friends with Sam, in case you haven't been following everything. [Laughs] And he's sleeping on a bed next to us right now. Okay. So I am Kristin Russo and if you don't know, I also do a lot of work with LGBTQ communities. You can check that out over on my website
kristinnoeline.com, finding organizations that I co-founded: Everyone Is Gay and My Kid Is Gay, a book I wrote called This is a Book for Parents of Gay Kids. My website, I'll spell it for you. You know what Jenny wrote a jingle to help you spell it, so…
Jenny: Yeah! Hit it! [KRISTIN NOELINE jingle plays] Kristin with an I N-O-E-L-I-N-E
Kristin: Yes, you can use that spelling Kristinnoeline.com. You can also use that spelling to find me on Twitter and on Instagram at @KristinNoeline.
Jenny: Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on Twitter, Instagram, and Facebook at @bufferingcast. And you can always email us at Bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin: You sure can! [Singing] Dot com! [Speaking] You can support us in a variety of ways. Of course, you can rate and review our podcast, or our sister podcast Angel On Top over on iTunes. You can buy some sweet merch and we've got [singing] some sweet new merch in the store, so check it out!
Jenny: Oh, yeah!
Kristin: [Speaking] Bufferingthevampireslayer.com, just click on shop. And course you can join our Patreon family.
Jenny: Woohoo!
Kristin: It is, it is almost 2,000 people strong. I would love to be 2,000 people strong before we get to the end of this season. Just saying. And you get all sorts of perks, namely just being a part of the secret Facebook group where people hang out and do lovely things together. It's really sweet. If you are a part of that group, you got to see Jenny perform at Prom because we live streamed those sets for our patrons. You get the MP3s in advance, at the $5 level. You get all sorts of things. It's fun. Just check it out. Bufferingthevampireslayer.com, just click on Patreon.
Jenny: Yeah. Do all those things. Until next time!
Both: [Howling] AWOOO!!
Jenny: [Quickly] Burn it down and salt the earth. [Jenny performing "Primeval," off the album "Songs from Season Four" by Buffering the Vampire Slayer]  I made my mistakes You made yours too How can it matter When we have what we do I know it was wrong To fight like we did And now that I have you back I just want to forget Can you forgive me, I wasn’t quite myself Was it a dream, that had to be someone else I was a fool We’re better together, I’m better with you I was a fool How did I get so Far out of my head So many wrong things That can’t be unsaid How could I let go For even a blink My hope and my anchors My everything Can you forgive me, I wasn’t quite myself That wasn’t me, it had to be someone else I was a fool We’re better together, I’m better with you I was a fool The hand and spirit, heart and mind I need you all to win this fight I was a fool We’re better together, I’m better with you I was a fool