Angel On Top
Episode 3.08: Quickening
NOTES: [CHIME]
LaToya: Welcome back to Angel On Top, a podcast where we watch and discuss every episode of Angel, one by one, spoiler free, and in tandem with Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast which we are feuding with. I'm your co host-
Morgan: Pew, pew.
LaToya: [laughs] I'm your co-host, LaToya Ferguson, AKA the Cordelia Chase of the Buffering verse, AKA Bones, AKA one half of the Gunn Squad, AKA Theodore K. Mullins.
Morgan: And I am your co-host, Morgan Lutich, AKA the Winifred Burkle of the Buffering verse, AKA also Bones, AKA one half of the Gunn Squad, AKA Frank Scabopolis.
LaToya: And this week, we're watching Angel Season 3, Episode 8, Quickening. Quickening was written by Jeffrey Bell and is directed by Skip Schoolnik. It aired on The WB on November 12th, 2001.
Morgan: And this is the one where everyone's trying to figure out what Darla's supernaturally impossible pregnancy means before her possibly very dangerous baby is born.
NOTES: [Angel On Top theme plays]
LaToya: So, we didn't talk about this last week, but we were talking about this before the recording. Which is that, it's so very clear, watching now, like, of course this is a sweeps week story. Or sweeps-month story, 'cause yeah, that's how we start off November. It's, uh, Darla and the baby and this whole-this is a-like, this is a good story. It's not like these are bad episodes.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: But watching them back now, it's like, yeah, these are for sweeps. These are for ratings. And you know what? It worked, actually.
Morgan: Yeah. [crosstalk] they did, they did well.
LaToya: So it begins-yeah. So in the previous episode, Offspring, they got 4.4 million, which is actually kind of standard for Angel around that-this episode, 5.2 million.
Morgan: Wow. Okay, cool. Good for them.
LaToya: It worked. It worked. Morgan, how did you feel about this episode?
Morgan: I-I felt good about it. It felt very much like a Part One. Like, I feel bummed we can't just, like, roll right forward. It feels like an unfinished story. But I think there's a lot of really good stuff in it. And I am gonna shock no one here by saying I thought Julie Benz was really great in it. [laughs]
LaToya: She was. I agree with you.
Morgan: Yeah, I adored her. I still am just not there with Holtz. Like, I just don't care about him. And I-he feels kind of like a strawman. 'Cause he's not telling us anything new about Angel or Angelus. Like, we know Angelus was bad. We know! Like, and it sucks, what he did to this guy. It's-
LaToya: Yeah, I was gonna ask if you feel bad for him yet, [laughs] based on what Angelus and Darla did. And like, they haven't even told-like, this is not a spoiler. Like, they haven't even told the full extent to what he did to Holtz's family.
Morgan: Right. And I feel like the common decency sympathy for him, where I'm like, yeah. Sucks, man. But I truly just don't have any sense of him beyond, like, he's the one guy Angel, like, fucked with who's, like, tenacious enough to, you know, get him back in this way, particularly. And I don't-I guess I, like, want more of an understanding of, like, what's inside him that makes him that way? Like, what is there that feels, like, textured and real about him as a person? Like, he feels very, like, generic old vampire hunter to me. Like, I-so-and you know, I also just know Angel's not that guy anymore. And I know that he's doing everything in his power to try to atone. And it's totally cool if that doesn't mean shit to Holtz, because he killed his family. I would likely feel the same exact way. But I-I'm watching the show that's called Angel. So I need-as a viewer, I need just a little bit more to be able to enjoy and engage in his scenes.
LaToya: Yeah. I-I guess I feel stronger about Holtz than you. But like, I've said it before. I don't even know if it was on this podcast or-all the podcasts have, like, bled together in my brain now. [Morgan laughs] It's just soup. I'm, like, a really-I'm a really big fan of Count of Monte Cristo, like, the book and like, the Jim Caviezel movie. And so I kind of love the story where it's like, this good man who's coming for revenge and, like, he's basically destroying his soul, pretty much, to get this revenge. That in this case, it's kind of hollow because Angel has changed so greatly.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And you know, just seeing, like, the fact that, yeah, he-you know, he cares about humanity in a way. But at the same time, he has no problem just killing a bunch of people, like it's nothing.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And he literally makes a deal with a devil, is what he does, to get this vengeance.
Morgan: Yeah. And you say Count of Monte Cristo and I'm immediately leaning forward and interested. But in my vague recollection of Count of Monte Cristo, you got a sense of the guy he was before, right?
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: And a sense of his, like, humanity and like, the goodness in him that was, like, beaten away by all the awful things that happened to him and like, all of his time in prison and all of that stuff. I have no sense of the moment before, with Holtz. And even if they give it to us in the future, for me, that'll feel like way too little, too late.
LaToya: I guess, put this discussion in your Shanshu prophecies as we discuss further.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Because I think there's a part of this story that I don't love. And it's because it, um-and it's not even necessarily Holtz. But there's a part of the story coming forward where it's like, you had the opportunity to do what you're saying, basically. Like, give us more of their interior life before this. And because of certain reasons, that's not possible. And also, like, the thing about the chronology of this so far is that most of what we've seen of Holtz is, like, him reacting to them killing his family. So we didn't get to-like, this is really our first time really seeing his family stuff-
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: At all.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: So like, yeah, when we're introduced to him, like, he's coming after them in France. That's, like, years after the family-his family's been killed.
Morgan: Yeah. And-yeah, it's-telling that story out of-like, out of chronology and out of sync, I think does no favors to the character. And I honestly, like-I don't like to, like, boo on performances, but I don't find the actor particularly engaging. And it, as a performance, is doing very little for me. To the point where I'm like, what were you going for? Like, what-what is-I can't even put my finger on what is lost for me.
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: Like, I'm like, is he supposed to be campier? Is he supposed to be more tragic? Is he supposed to be, like…I don't know, like, deeply charismatic? Is he-am I supposed to be afraid when he's on screen? Like, I…I really just don't know how I'm supposed to feel. I-it, like-he very much is, like, a white dude in period clothes for me. Like, I have no…like, he's an actor in a costume. Like, I really even-
LaToya: They called him-
Morgan: I have trouble with viewing him as a character. You know?
LaToya: They call him the pirate with a sword, which I was like, Finn Mikaelson found dead, yet again. [both laugh]
Morgan: I wish it was Finn Mikaelson instead. [laughs] I'm sorry, I don't mean to go off on Holtz, who I-I sympathize with his mission, in general. [LaToya laughs] If someone killed my wife and daughter, I would annihilate them, so. [laughs] Fair enough.
LaToya: And don't forget about the baby. We-like, the baby is part of it. [laughs]
Morgan: Absolutely. Well, my wife and two-and two children. I would, again, annihilate them. [laughs]
LaToya: Moral combat! [Morgan laughs] Let us get into…Quickening.
Morgan: Let us quicken. [laughs]
LaToya: Ugh. No! Previously on Angel. The Nyazian scrolls. The Tro-clan! The ruination of mankind! Angel lies to Cordy about fucking Darla, Darla arrives pregnant 'cause she fucked Angel, she chomps Cordy. Our baby has a soul! The Tro-clan is arriving now! It's Holtz! "Just tell me where he is." Okay, you're caught up.
Morgan: Woo!
LaToya: So we open with horse galloping, as my subtitles tell me.
Morgan: Mmhmm. Yes.
LaToya: It's the first thing it said. Horse galloping. I'm like, yes.
Morgan: Felt right at home. [laughs]
LaToya: York, England, 1764, a very good year.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Holtz and his people think they've found Angelus and Darla. And they're off to find them. And Angelus and Darla, they're at a house. This little girl named Sarah-
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: She's like, "I'm not allowed to let strangers in." But they're like, "We know your father, which means we're not strangers." Which is the oldest trick in the book.
Morgan: Also, they're like, "We know your father likes you. Would strangers know that?" And I'm like, I mean, it's a 50/50 shot. Like…[both laugh] it's kind of, like, not like, an amazing guess. Like…
LaToya: It works. Their charm works, yet again.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Even though they're pretty creepy, but you know.
Morgan: They're creepy but they're so hot. It's hard to say no to them. [laughs]
LaToya: You know that little girl's like, "You guys are hot, so." [laughs]
Morgan: "Dang." [laughs] She trusts pretty people, which I think we've all, you know, experienced problems having done that. [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah. She learns like the rest of us, basically.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Darla's like, "Remind me to give you a special treat." That's ominous.
Morgan: Yikes!
LaToya: Again, so Holtz and company seem to think that Angelus and Darla are trapped inside this house, which I wanna know how they got that intel.
Morgan: Yeah. I was also-at first, like, I was very fooled by the cross-cutting and was like, he knows it's his house. And he's like, "Burn it down! I don't care!" And I'm like, Jesus, your family's in there! [LaToya laughs] What a dick! Like, again, this is how poorly I think of this character, that I was just like, ugh, like, then you don't give a shit about your family! Like, why do you care he killed them? [both laugh]
LaToya: Wow! 'Cause I was like, I was wondering if it was gonna work for you, and apparently it did.
Morgan: It a hundred percent did.
LaToya: Too well. [laughs]
Morgan: I was like, fuck this guy! [both laugh] Again-
LaToya: Jesus.
Morgan: It's just-he and I are not simpatico and I feel bad about it. [both laugh]
LaToya: [laughing] This is gonna-let's see how this goes-
Morgan: [laughing] I know.
LaToya: [laughing] Yeah. Jesus.
Morgan: But I mean, Angelus, with everything we've seen of him so far, he's very single-minded in his pursuit of this guy.
LaToya: But even though you know that he's specifically-continues to go after them because they killed his family. You know this. [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah, 'cause I was like, you're a hypocrite. I-you're gonna hate what I'm about to say, but I've been watching a lot of Real Housewives, and people do hypocritical things. And it's upsetting.
LaToya: [sarcastically] What? People on reality TV do hypocritical things, Morgan?
Morgan: 'Cause people…in real life…do hypocritical things. [laughs]
LaToya: Cancel this podcast! [both laugh] So then the wife-the wife of Holtz, Mrs. Holtz, you know, they would say. She meets Angelus and Darla and they're still creepy. And no one is-
Morgan: But she's also like, "Hey!" Like, she is also charmed by their hotness, too. She's like, "Hi…?" instead of what I would be if a stranger came into my house at night, being like, what the fuck?! And you know, grabbing for my big baseball bat.
NOTES: [laughs]
LaToya: I mean, this is also white privilege. They're hot white people, so it's like, okay, I guess we trust you. [laughs]
Morgan: Fair.
NOTES: [WHITE SUPREMACY jingle plays] You know what that sounds like to me? (What?) White supremacy! (Oh no) Woven in not too subtly (Ugh) White supremacy! (Uh-uh) Open your eyes and that's where you'll find it Crush that (squash that) White supremacy!
LaToya: So Angelus says he has a message for her husband, and Darla's gonna give it to Sarah. [Morgan laughs] It's creepy, creepy, creepy. Tells this child to close her eyes. Creepy, and it's chomp o'clock.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And then over at the completely wrong house, the note says, "How do you hope to save others when you cannot save your own?" Which I was like, that seems like Angelus's cadence. Which proves that Angelus can write.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: We have figured it out now.
Morgan: And he has lovely handwriting. Really beautiful script. [both laugh] Like, I wondered earlier. Like, is he using a calligraphy pen? Does he have that with him at all times? I was very impressed.
LaToya: I mean, didn't they all, in the 1700s?
Morgan: Maybe, I don't know. [laughs] I wasn't there. [both laugh]
LaToya: As we all know, Morgan knows nothing about before she was born.
NOTES: [laughs]
Morgan: No, I refuse to learn about the past. [laughs] I live in the now. [both laugh]
LaToya: So Holtz realizes they're at his house. Poor guy.
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: Or fuck that guy, if you're Morgan. [both laugh] And then we hear that a baby exists in this house, which is like, holy shit, that's really dark. Darla calls it a horrible noise. [both laugh] She's not-so you know where that's gonna go.
Morgan: Yeah. Things are not looking good for that baby. [laughs] And Darla's very much like, "Are you gonna take care of that or am I gonna take care of that?" Which is worrisome to hear.
LaToya: It is. I also-this is where I wrote in my notes, during this, "I wonder if Morgan will think Holtz has a reason to hate Angel now." [both laugh]
Morgan: I wrote, Holtz-well, here's the thing. My next note in my Shanshu prophecy? "Holtz arrives. Sad face." I did feel bad for him. Here/
LaToya: Is that what that means? It could just mean that he has a sad face.
Morgan: I-no! This is about both him and me. We both have sad faces.
LaToya: Present day. And I do like the transition of the sun rising and that brings us into the present.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: I like it. It's cute.
Morgan: Yeah, it's nice.
LaToya: A very pregnant Darla is sleeping and Angel comes to check on her. And touch her belly and she, like, wakes up and holds his hand and it's actually really sweet. Until she's like, "Are you gonna do it or am I?" talking about, um…killing this baby, once it's born.
Morgan: Yes. An unfortunate callback that is very upsetting, given their history. And yeah, Boreanaz is so good in this moment, where he's like, so tentative about, like, touching her while she's asleep. Because you know, like, they don't have that kind of relationship or intimacy. But he just, you know, wants to feel this baby. 'Cause right away-it's so great, after the contrast of how shitty he was last week. And how, like…you know, like, suspicious he was of the baby, of Darla's motives, of everything. That now he is the kid's, you know, like, number one defender. I think it's a really nice look. And I think it's nice to see him go through that journey. And it makes sense. Like, it…it's-it would be hard to believe that something that could come from Darla and his union would be good. 'Cause, uh, genuinely, when they're together, toxic things happen. [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah. But yeah, this is back on track to how Angel was, like, for most of the season, until last week's episode, where we had to take him to task, honestly.
Morgan: Mmhmm. And I hope that he's feeling pretty embarrassed after all the stuff we said about him. [laughs]
LaToya: He…he listens, he reflected. He feels just bad about it, honestly.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And then we get some TV in a demon lair, which you know. Where is the electricity? No one knows, but it's provocative, so.
Morgan: Mmhmm. [both laugh] It gets the people going. This is where Holtz learns about the moon landing. Which, we must take the detour. Our other podcast, The AMPire Diaries, also features a character that was essentially put into forced hibernation throughout much of the modern world. And she missed out on the moon landing and we have no knowledge of her finding out about it. Unlike Holtz, who at least is told, which I think is the right thing to do. You gotta let people know we've landed on the moon. [laughs]
LaToya: I forgot that he was informed about the moon landing. And then when it happened, I was so happy. [Morgan laughs] Let characters who have been in suspended animation learn about the moon landing, please.
Morgan: Because if they hear about it out of context, they're gonna behave weirdly. Like, imagine not knowing about it and someone being like, ah, yes, 'cause we've been on the moon. We have? What? [laughs] Like, look, that blows your cover. If you're trying to look like you are a normal, modern-day person, and you don't know about the moon landing? I think you're screwed. [laughs]
LaToya: This is how you blend, people. Know about the moon landing. Know that it exists. Know that we went to the moon in 1969, as Even Stevens taught all of us.
Morgan: In fact, show them Influenza. The musical. Show them it and they'll get everything, right away. You don't even need to tell them anything else. [laughs]
LaToya: [singing] "We went to the moon!"
LaToya and Morgan: [singing] "In 1969."
Morgan: [singing] "Not 1968 but the year after!" [laughs]
LaToya: And I, of course, am shaking my head, side to side. Like the choreography in that musical number. [laughs]
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: This also reminded me of that scene in American Horror Story: Coven, where Kathy Bates sees that Obama is president and she's, like, so racist and so upset. She is crying because she hates it so much.
Morgan: [laughs] Yes-
LaToya: And she's like, [whispers] "Lies!"
Morgan: [simultaneously] "Lies!" [both laugh] I'm-I've seen that GIF a lot, yes.
NOTES: [both laugh]
LaToya: The magic box lies! Lies! [both laugh]
Morgan: But this is where-so we realize, like, Holtz has been gone for 227 years of human history, which is a long time.
LaToya: And I-it makes me curious about, like, all of the books they have. Where-'cause obviously, Holtz would be in all of these kinda-these history books that they have. And the fact that he just disappears, that seems like something, like, people should know. [laughs]
Morgan: Maybe it's something that kind of just, like, make sense. Because as the demon explained to him, if he had stayed, you know, alive in his own timeline, he would have just, like, withered away and became a bitter old man who never saw Angel again.
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: So that just must be what everybody assumes happened.
LaToya: How depressing. But yeah, he's gotten updated and he's like, "I understand enough. How is it no one has killed Angelus or Darla?" And it's actually funny, because Angel did kill Darla. [both laugh] And Angel did die. Both just didn't take. [both laugh]
Morgan: I know, I wanted to be like, well, actually! [both laugh]
LaToya: They were both killed. It happened, it just didn't stick.
Morgan: But yeah, Holtz has not been given the whole story. Which again, for me, kind of like, makes him very, like, strawman-y, where I'm just like, he doesn't even know what's happened and what's going on. Like, I-which again, makes it hard for me-like, he feels like such a pawn in, like, a bigger plan. Which could be tragic, but since he doesn't feel like a person to me, it doesn't feel tragic.
LaToya: But yeah, he's clearly a pawn. Like, Sahjhan is clearly skipping some things.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: [laughs] And not even just the soul stuff, honestly.
Morgan: But he does tell him about the Beach Boys. And asks him if he thinks he really gets them. [both laugh] Which, I write in my notes, "does Holtz get the Beach Boys?" Probably not. [LaToya laughs] He needs to meet my dad. [laughs]
LaToya: Ah. Morgan's dad. [Morgan laughs] Yeah, like, how has no one killed them? Obviously, people have killed them. Each-[laughs] like, they've killed each other, basically. [both laugh] He killed Darla, Buffy killed him. It's good. Then they fucked. Obviously, Sahjhan doesn't bring up the fact that Angel's a force for good now. [laughs]
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: So Sahjhan says that Holtz's fate and their fate is entwined. Because you know, we got our Nyazian scrolls and all of that fun stuff. And Holtz is like-he's ready to go. He's ready to go do some killing, but Sahjhan says, uh, they're gonna do this right. 'Cause he's been-he's been tracking Angel for two and a half centuries.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And even bippin' and boppin' through other dimensions, 'cause he can do that.
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: And Sahjhan is played by Jack Conley, who was in a previous Buffyverse episode. Do you know which one, Morgan?
Morgan: No, but I did recognize him, and was like, I know this guy. What do I-what-with-who is he?
LaToya: He is from Buffy Season 2, Episode Phases. He is Cain the werewolf hunter.
Morgan: He…is Cain the werewolf hunter! Why do? I don't know why they would do that, but I guess they can do that. I guess it's just his fake face.
LaToya: They have-they've done that more than once. Like-
Morgan: Well, I-yeah.
LaToya: It always works, actually, so.
Morgan: Yeah. I knew because I saw his face and I was annoyed. I was just like, ugh! And I was like, why am I-I'm like, if I'm annoyed, I must know this actor. And then I was like, I shouldn't look it up 'cause LaToya will tell me. [both laugh]
LaToya: Back at the hotel-and I really just love everything about the hotel sets. Like, everything.
Morgan: Yes.
LaToya: I just-what a-what an excellent set.
Morgan: The colors are so rich. Like, it's like-it's very, like, gothic-homey. Which is perfect for Angel. And I mean homey, H-O-M-E-Y, like, very lived-in and comfy. And kind of-
LaToya: You didn't mean H-O-M-I-E, like Gunn?
Morgan: I didn't mean that as in "homie don't play that." I meant it as in, a very homey place. [laughs]
LaToya: You guys, Morgan just said "homie don't play that."
Morgan: Only a reference-my favorite Kimmy Schmidt line, which is, "Say something like 'homie don't play that.' First, establish yourself as homie. [both laugh] And then…" [laughs]
LaToya: I do need to know, have you ever seen an episode of In Living Color?
Morgan: I have not. [laughs] I'm sorry.
LaToya: My white friend. [laughs] I just wanna say, my white friend.
Morgan: I'm sorry, but I can. And [crosstalk]
LaToya: [laughing] You don't have to apologize for being white. I just-'cause I've not, like, watched it in adulthood. I watched it as a kid, being a black person in America.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And I'm not surprised you weren't watching it, but I just-I needed to double check. [laughs]
Morgan: I-but I feel bad whenever, like, I have any gaps in my, like, television history. Especially when they largely exist because of my, like, race. So I just want to be a more-I strive to be a more well-rounded human in all of these ways. And that's why I say that I'm sorry. [laughs]
LaToya: Well, I would suggest-instead of In Living Color, uh…unless I, like, kinda cherry-pick, try to find a sketch that I feel like hasn't aged so terribly. Maybe Martin or Living Single if you've not watched either of those shows.
Morgan: Mm. Okay, okay, okay.
LaToya: This has been Race Relations with LaToya and Morgan. [both laugh] Put up a hiphop beat, Kristin! [both laugh]
NOTES: [Old school hiphop beat plays]
Morgan: I love this scene with Darla and Angel, because it opens with both of them being like, "Remember how we fucked?" [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: And then-yeah.
LaToya: He had a bad day. Come on, Angel. [both laugh] She does give him crap for being beige Angel, it's pretty funny.
Morgan: Yeah, and he just kind of, like, doesn't have an excuse. He's like, "It kind of just seemed like what I should do." And I'm like, wow. Great rationale, there. [both laugh] What a goof. He is being silly. And then the gang arrives and they're like, "We have research news."
LaToya: Mmhmm. Gunn-
Morgan: Fred is so cute.
LaToya: Gunn with a crossbow, because he is on, like, protect everyone duty. And yes, Fred is great. And this episode is-like, Skip Schoolnik's directing is very great for closeups. And then just, like-in, like-unfocused things happening in the background. Like, Julie Benz's reaction [laughs] to Fred's thing, in the-like, she's just in the background. 'Cause they're focusing on Boreanaz-is so funny. And there's like a bunch of that throughout this episode. So Fred's rambling, but the gist is, once again, grammar comes into play with translations.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: So-
Morgan: And it's sweet that she's, like, gassing up Wesley, given, like, the idea that we're still in the after effects of Billy. And she's like, "Hey. Just want publicly to announce that Wesley's good and I like him." Like, I just think that's kind of her. And also just-like, I think it also is genuine. Like, I don't think it is a political thing that she's doing, but it's really nice to see.
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: I think they've been very conscious of all of the Wes and Fred interactions since Billy. And making sure that it shows you, like, these two characters are okay with each other. Like, Wesley might be harboring still, like, guilt and bad feelings about what he did. But there is still, like, affection and respect between these people. Like, that has not gone away. Which is nice.
LaToya: Yeah. Yeah, and so basically, Tro-clan is not a person, but it is a confluence of events. So it's not just Angel, Darla, the baby, but other horrible things we don't know about, says Cordy. [Morgan laughs] And Angel is so happy that it's not, like, his baby, obviously.
Morgan: Yeah. It's just nice.
LaToya: But there's still a bunch of phrases he has to translate that have to do with a birth.
Morgan: Yeah, and it's-
LaToya: This damn prophecy. [laughs]
Morgan: Whew! It's a tricky one. [laughs] And I like that it's kind of, like, well, the baby's probably not bad? But it's not definitely good. [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: Is kind of like, the result. But Angel, again, like, being optimistic and warm and wanting to protect this kid and his only chance at being a dad. Like, it really-that touches me so much.
LaToya: This is when Darla reveals that something's protecting the baby. So she can't get rid of it, even if she tried, and she has tried. And this is why she's talking about, like, killing it after the pregnancy-like, after the birth, because you can't do it now. And oh, Gunn. Our glorious Gunn. He wants to shoot an arrow at her stomach to find out what happens. [both laugh]
Morgan: And I love that she's like, "Bring it the fuck on." Like…[both laugh] again, Julie Benz just lounging in the chair, just pointing to her stomach and being like, do what you will. Like, I just-I adore her.
LaToya: Of course, Angel's like, no. [both laugh] No doing that.
Morgan: [laughing] Please do not.
LaToya: And then they all start just talking about how they're gonna kill this baby. Wesley says, "We wait for it to be born and then we chop its head off." [both laugh]
Morgan: Guys!
LaToya: Is it Fred who says, "What if it doesn't have a head?" [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah. [laughs] And then later, Fred's like, "Maybe it has two heads." So all over the board here.
LaToya: They start bringing up flamethrowers. And Angel's like, "No, there will be no throwing of flames." [both laugh]
Morgan: Old man. What a-yeah, this is not The Vampire Diaries. We can't have a bunch of flame throwers. [both laugh]
LaToya: Yes. Angel, for once, is the one who wants to think things through.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And he's like, "come on, guys, who's with me?" And Darla tries to leave.
NOTES: [both laugh]
Morgan: He's like, "Anyone who's not with me can leave." And Darla's like, cool! Bye! [both laugh] And he's like, "Not you." Again, just like, Julie Benz, killing it on all levels, making me laugh so much. And I love that Cordelia is in, but her one condition is…[laughs] she must punch Darla in the face.
NOTES: [CORDELIA jingle plays] Cordelia… (ah-ahh) I love you, Cordelia (ah-ahh) You're perfect, Cordelia (ah-ahh)
Morgan: I have never related so hard. [both laugh] I-as a punchy gal myself. Good-good on ya, Cordy. [laughs]
LaToya: And yeah, it's-we should also note that, like, obviously Angel's trying to rally the team. But it's Cordy's commitment that he wants the most, after everything that happened last week, where he really fucked things up. But it seems like they're back on track now.
Morgan: Yeah, it's nice. It's good. It's-things aren't, like…perfect, but she is on his side and, like, at his disposal for this mission. Like, she is willing to take his lead. Especially now that he kind of seems to, like, have his head on straight, like, about the possibility of what this kid could mean for him. Yeah.
LaToya: Yeah. And now we go to another one of those scenes where I'm like, maybe this is the smartest scene ever. Which is Lilah doing a-like, signing a contract in blood. And she pricks her finger, she doesn't slice her goddamn palm.
Morgan: Yeah!
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: [sighs] I loved-I loved seeing that. I also just, like, loved the-like, how habitual it felt. Like, how much it was not the first time she'd done it. And like, the very measured way and like, all of the tools that she had to make that possible, with like, her blood inkwell and her fancy pen set. I loved it. That ruled. She is so hot [laughs] and I love her.
LaToya: [laughs] And then enter this mail bag douche, as I called him in my notes, Cyril. This actor's a psychotherapist in Silver Lake now, by the way.
Morgan: Oh, yo! [laughs] Well. Now I know who to go to. [both laugh] But…what a creepy vibe this gentleman has. And he is giving Lilah-
LaToya: I mean, I love it. But like, also…stop.
Morgan: Look, do I agree that Lilah's very cool? Yes. But…[laughing] I wouldn't go about it like that. Wouldn't go about telling her that like that.
LaToya: I kinda do love how he just hopped allegiances every scene he was in.
Morgan: Yeah. Like, he was-he, like, for lack of a better word, a real snake. Like, really, very-very untrustworthy. Because I mean, I assume his allegiances were-lay in that final place the whole time. He was just-
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: You know, we were seeing him for the first time, you know, lying to everybody to get his way. Which, uh, good. [LaToya laughs] Good stuff. If you're gonna infiltrate Wolfram & Hart, I think you have to be a snake. Like-
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: You have to be able to, you know, have no allegiances but to yourself.
LaToya: Yeah, he gives her a CD-ROM that has video footage of her and Mark Angel, from Carpe Noctem, on Wesley's desk. Which means that there is surveillance in the hotel. Which also means that's from the exterminators in That Vision Thing, so.
Morgan: Yeah, which like, guys. Uh, notice things like that. [laughs]
LaToya: Gunn sent them away. Why didn't they check after that?
Morgan: They're very busy. [both laugh] They're very understaffed.
LaToya: What…Gunn and Fred, did you not tell the rest of them about these exterminators that came at night?
Morgan: I-yeah, the evening exterminators. [laughs]
LaToya: So. He's decided he's going to choose his side in the different factions at Wolfram & Hart. So he chose her side, against Gavin, who was responsible for this little tape.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Fucking Gavin. I mean-
Morgan: But it's also just like, so creepy that, like, the guys in the mail-the implication that the guys in the mailroom, like, look at this tape of them making out. Like, agh! No thanks. Wolfram & Hart's a gross, seedy place. And I would say, do better, but they're evil so they're not gonna.
LaToya: They're doing correctly for them. And also, I have to give it to Gavin. Gavin was smart to put surveillance in Angel Investigations. Like, he was right.
Morgan: I can't believe it hadn't been done already? To the point where I was just like, yeah, this is obvious? [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: Why not-why has no one done this before? [laughs]
LaToya: I have to give Gavin his props for once. This was correct, actually.
NOTES: [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: For his nefarious purposes, he did good, kid.
Morgan: Look, smart plotting. Congrats. [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah, he's having this-them surveil everything. Even, like, Angel and Cordy's training sessions in the basement.
Morgan: Mm.
LaToya: And they're transcribing-she's Female 1, by the way, Cordelia. [both laugh]
Morgan: Oh. She must be thrilled. [both laugh]
LaToya: She's number one on the female call sheet. [both laugh]
Morgan: That they haven't put, like-that is the thing where I'm like, okay, Gavin. How smart are you if you know to record this, but you are getting very little intelligence from this, it seems. Working quite hard and not smart, in terms of, like-and you know, later, Lilah points this out, where it's like, you're understaffed. You aren't, like, doing anything with the information that is of value. You don't even know who Darla is. Like…
LaToya: [laughs] They do need each other, actually. 'Cause Gavin did a good thing, but he doesn't really know how to implement. It's-[laughs] he'd be fucked-like, he wouldn't know anything about the Darla stuff if not for Lilah.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: It does speak to how Wolfram & Hart sees everyone on the team who is not Angel, where Cordelia is just "Female 1." [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah. I mean, it's like, she has an actual tie to the Powers That Be and gets vision and is in charge of, essentially, their mission. Which, again, like, only Lilah is smart enough to attack her, which she, you know, does in That Vision Thing. But I don't know. It's…it's weird. It's weird to think about Wolfram & Hart on-like, on the lower-like, on the macro versus the micro levels. And the idea that, like, Gavin can't see the forest for the trees in doing his evil. And it is-it is crazy that Angel is just, you know, one person on a team of a few people that has to fight this entire organization. Like, that's-it's an intimidating enemy. I always love Wolfram & Hart and getting more information on what's going on with them. Their inner workings fascinate me.
LaToya: Yeah. But Gavin continues to suck, that he says no one cares about her and the Mark Angel thing because, from what he hears, bumping uglies-ugh!-with an old man who body-jumped into a vampire is the closest thing you've had to a meaningful relationship in years. Uh…ho, shut the fuck up. [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah, like, bitch, who are you making out with? Probably no one. Like-
LaToya: That's a lie, you're very attractive! [laughs]
Morgan: They're both hot! It's like, how can you, like-
LaToya: They should fuck.
Morgan: They really should. Like, I do feel that they should engage in some hate sex. But that is very, you know, obviously up to them. And-
LaToya: [laughs] If they would like to do that.
Morgan: I would just like to remind them each, individually, that that is an option. [laughs] If they, you know, haven't considered it.
LaToya: It's like, is Gavin saying that, like, he fucks all the time? 'Cause like, I would like to see that.
Morgan: Yeah. I-I'm interested in learning more. For sure.
LaToya: I feel like I need to know more about Gavin Park. And to do so, I would need to see his sex life.
Morgan: Yes. I would actually like to know more about Gavin's personal life. I would like to know more about both Gavin and Lilah's personal lives. I just-the idea of being, like, a mover and shaker in the business underworld of magical evil, always just gets me, man. Like, it's a similar, you know, area in terms of like, The Cabin in the Woods, like, of it all, with Bradley Whitford and Richard Jenkins characters. It's clearly an area that Joss Whedon is interested in as a creator. Which, you know, womp-womp, to mention him. But I am similarly interested in the banal business of evil. [laughs]
LaToya: Which is why we want more mailbag douche Cyril. [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah. Cyril…Cyril's got the goss. Cyril knows about both of their sex lives.
NOTES: [laughs] So Cyril, come on the pod. Tell us what's up. [laughs]
LaToya: Cyril reads the papers. [both laugh]
Morgan: He hates that that's his catchphrase. [both laugh]
LaToya: So. "Unidentified pregnant female." 'Cause they-they lost the feed for a little bit. This is not high tech-like, the highest of tech for them.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: They lost audio for a couple days last week, so they pull the tape. And Lilah immediately realizes it's Darla.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And Gavin's like, "uh, vampires can't get pregnant." Yeah, we know!
Morgan: Yeah, that's why this is notable.
LaToya: And then Lilah calls Linwood. This is his first episode and says, "We have a problem." 'Cause they do. And in the background of this, again, you have Cyril who's clearly pleased by what he's seeing.
Morgan: Not to bring up 30 Rock again, but Cyril really has the vibe of the Ikea employee in the 30 Rock episode where they go to Ikea, who's in the back, like, going like, "Yes, fight!" [both laugh] And I…I'm not against it. [laughs]
LaToya: So Darla's having contractions and they're regular and they're timing. And she's feeling pain and Angel's like, "You like pain." She's like, "This is different." [Morgan laughs] And Boreanaz's delivery of "but you like pain" is so funny. He also looks really good here. He just looks really good in Season 3, I gotta say. [laugh]
Morgan: Yeah. It-this…this is what peak performance looks like. [both laugh]
LaToya: And Angel at this point is afraid that the baby's going to skitter, 'cause they've gotten into his brain. [laughs]
Morgan: Skitter! The word skitter made me laugh so hard. I-I loved it. [laughing] The idea that she's gonna give birth to, like, a little crab [both laugh] really gets me. But I also love when they're like, "well, how long does birth usually take?" And Wesley's like, "I don't know, like, 18 hours?" And Darla's like, "what?!" Childbirth is terrifying. If you have gone through childbirth, I salute you. You are so brave and strong and impressive to me. But all I can think about, again, is the Leo Spaceman, like, "Why is the baby covered in goo?" and him yelling, "'Cause everything about this is disgusting!" [both laugh] Like, I-it-childbirth is terrifying.
LaToya: Yeah. It is. It's-much power to ya if you can through it, or if you wanna go through it.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Couldn't be me.
Morgan: Again, I salute you. [laughs] But Darla-again, Darla very much is like, I never planned to go through this. Why is this happening to me? How dare life? And I agree. Like, god, I can't imagine. Like, truly, being nine months pregnant out of nowhere is the stuff of my stress dreams. So I felt for Darla, very much in this episode. [laughs]
LaToya: And you know, Gunn says, "We should get a demony doctor in here. You know, someone who understands how a vampire girl parts work." To which Cordelia gives him a "what the fuck" face. And he's like, "You know what I'm saying." And I was looking it up. In the original shooting script, he says, "That came out wrong, but you know what I'm saying." 'Cause he's talking specifically about, like, her internal organs, because-
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: They don't function. Because she is a dead body.
Morgan: His general idea is very correct. It is truly a problem of using the wrong words. Like, it is-like, I could not remember the sequence of events from this episode. You know, 'cause again, you know, I obviously watched this episode before, a long time ago. And so when I saw the doctor, I was like, oh okay, so someone is going to, like, deliver the baby in, like, a traditional sense, who understands, like, vampire anatomy and like, what Darla would need to, like, [laughing] successfully perform this birth. But that ends up not happening. But like, I was like, Gunn, you are right. Just, you shouldn't say it like that. [laughs]
LaToya: Gunn was right and then a demony doctor does show up-
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Who, like, would probably know more about this. It's like in Once More, With Feeling where Giles says, "It could be a dancing demon." And then he's like, "no, that's not it." But you know what? He was right! [Morgan laughs] When these men are right, we should say it.
Morgan: 'Cause sometimes men are right. We-we can-we're big enough that we can say that. Sometimes men are right.
LaToya: Is Giles wrong that Buffy needs to live on her own? Yes, because she was dead. She's not in a state of arrested development, she's in a state of having been dead. She is behind on things. Uh, yeah, we're gonna talk about that here too, because again. We are feuding with Buffering the Vampire Slayer, which means we will also take the takes that they're saying. And we'll say them again, but on this podcast, and they won't do the same, 'cause they're scared. [both laugh] Morgan, you don't seem like you're as invested in this feud as I am.
Morgan: I-I'm searching for the specificity of my role in the feud. I'm still finding it. I want you to know that I am fully committed, because as your partner, I'm always on your side, no matter what. And I am-I think I have proved that I am ready to punch anything you want me to. [LaToya laughs] But-I'm always here to be fighty. But I'm-I am still very much finding my role in the battle to come.
LaToya: Thank you. I love you, Morgan.
Morgan: I will say, they all walk out of the room and just, like, leave Darla screaming in the other room, to have this conversation. And I was livid about that.
NOTES: [both laugh]
LaToya: As though-
Morgan: I was like, you assholes!
LaToya: [laughing] She's gonna hear you anyway. As we confirm later, like, she heard them.
Morgan: [laughing] Yeah! Why would you-
LaToya: She's a vampire, still!
Morgan: So rude! [laughs]
LaToya: I do love it when they just, like, leave the room when someone's clearly-this happens all the time on this show. Someone's in so much pain. Like, let's just leave the room and have a conversation that they should probably have with this other person in the room.
Morgan: It's one of those things-it's, like, very much a TV show thing, where it's like, it'll be really annoying for this actor to have to go, like, "ow! Ow! Ow!" in the background of the scene. So we should just, like, have them leave them. But also, like, if you're watching this and you believe all of these to be, like, kind people who care about each other, [both laugh] it's pretty callous to watch them just be like, "alright, I'ma leave the screaming pregnant lady alone. And come have a talk about her-you know, what we wanna do with her body." [laughing] You know, that, less of a good look.
LaToya: Fred realizes they should just…you know, like, they can't really get a real doctor. Again, Gunn was right about demon doctor, but whatever. So they just go to a real hospital and all they just needed is the right equipment, so.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And then we get Linwood, Linwood Murrow. We get another L.M. name.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Played by the great John Rubinstein, prolific actor of screen and the stage. Originated the role of Pippin on Broadway. The titular Pippin!
Morgan: He's-he's the original "gotta find my corner of the skies" singer? Wow!
LaToya: Yeah. That was his Broadway debut.
Morgan: Then he has an incredibly impressive tenor range. If you know musical theater, you know-you have heard Corner in the Sky belted so many times by people, often incapable of hitting that final big note. So deeply impressive.
LaToya: Yeah. That was in '72, and then in 1980, he like, won every award, like, Tonys and all of them for Children of a Lesser God on Broadway. Yeah, he's kinda like-this casting is kinda like Joel Grey in Season 5 of Buffy, where it's just like, oh. [laughing] We're doing this. We're just having this legend here now.
Morgan: Yeah. This was great. I've-again, not to harp on casting, but I-a lot of the, like, Wolfram & Hart higher-ups have left me kind of cold, performance wise. And this really felt like the first person with, like, a lot of authority. But also the ability to deliver the jokes and, like, the asides and the-kind of, like-again, more like, banality of evil style comments. I was so stoked to see him.
LaToya: Yeah. And John Rubinstein is the father of actor Michael Weston. Which-Michael Weston played the younger version of John Rubinstein in an episode of Supernatural.
Morgan: Aww!
LaToya: It was very adorable. But yeah, Linwood is here. And they're, like, keeping all this information about the Darla pregnancy away from the senior partners, 'cause it's not gonna end up well if they know about this. And they're trying to figure out how they missed something this big. Like, why their psychics and everyone on their payroll didn't know this.
Morgan: Yeah, and it's like, good on Darla for staying off the grid, then. Because I mean, obviously, like, it-clearly, there's a reason that their psychics were, like, very-you know, like, unaware of this. But also, like-
LaToya: Well, is it-
Morgan: They could have caught them through normal means, if Darla had been, you know, out and about.
LaToya: But actually, is it Darla? Or is it, like, Sahjhan? Considering what he can do with dimensions.
Morgan: Yes. I think that too, but I also think, like, probably-he could only-like, I assume the fact that she left very little physical evidence of being anywhere also probably helped.
LaToya: But she chomped on that bus, like, very publicly. And you would think-
Morgan: You are so right.
LaToya: Wolfram & Hart would wanna know about, like-when they hear about that-
Morgan: Bus chompings. [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: Well, 'kay, well, whoever is in bus chompings is totally fucked. [LaToya laughs] Like, their performance review is gonna be really uncomfortable. [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah. They're saying, you know, "no way to foresee this." To which, our little friend, Cyril, he's lurking. And then he calls his master to say, "What you foresaw [both laugh] has come true." I-the Nyazian scrolls again. They're a little fickle bitch, honestly. [Morgan laughs] Shanshu is clearly-it's like, everyone knows about Shanshu.
Morgan: Mmm.
LaToya: Nyazian scrolls, people don't really know. But you know. It's fun to try to figure it out. It's, um…
Morgan: A little puzzle.
LaToya: A little puzzle. I wonder if it's gonna cause any more issues this season.
Morgan: [sarcastically] I imagine that it won't cause a single issue, going forward. I think we're done with that. [both laugh]
LaToya: That part's over now. [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah. That's in the past, LaToya. [both laughing]
LaToya: We've moved on. Holtz is here!
Morgan: [laughs] This is where I wrote in my notes, "Cyril creepin'." And I wrotesome bullet points for his conversation and my final bullet point was: "This dude, a li'l creep." 'Cause he is.
LaToya: He is. [spooky voice] York. Nine years later. [normal voice] So…this is after France, this is after Rome. He's-Holtz is basically, like, kind of defeated with not being able to catch Darla and Angelus. Because, yeah, this is six years after France and two years after Rome.
Morgan: Oh, okay. So yeah, he's sitting there. He's looking at the fire, 'cause they didn't have TV back then.
LaToya: They didn't.
Morgan: [laughs] No, you just had to watch the fire.
LaToya: [simultaneously] Yeah, he's looking at the fire. The fire, AKA cowboy TV.
Morgan: [laughs] Then our demony guy arrives, whose name is Sahjhan? Correct?
LaToya: Yeah, Sahjhan.
Morgan: Yeah, Sahjhan is there. And he is-Holtz is not excited to see him.
NOTES: [laughs]
LaToya: He's like, you're not a man. You know, yeah, I'm a demon. But clearly masculine. And I actually kinda like this, because you know, with demon stuff, it's like masculine-presenting, so this is what it is. And it's the "manpire" thing actually over again.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: 'Cause it's always like, should we call him a man? Or-but he's not human, but yeah. So.
Morgan: He does-and he does not wanna be misgendered, which fair enough, Sahjhan. And he's like, look, I-like, you aren't gonna-this is when he's like, you're not gonna see Angel and Darla, like, again if you don't come with me. Like, you'll, you know, wither and die alone and you'll never get your revenge. Unless…[laughs] you come with me. And I, you know, take you to the future. And I appreciate that he's like-at first, when he was, like, speaking very anachronistically, I was-in this scene, I was really annoyed. Because I do find that to be kind of, like, the overly quippy stuff that I can-that can be kind of, like, a crutch for both Buffy and Angel, like, dialogue-wise.
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: Which isn't always fun. But then I was like, oh, right. He, like, dimension hops and probably, like, time hops as well.
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: And therefore, would have modern vernacular. So then that didn't bother me anymore and was good. So. Props to everybody. [both laugh]
LaToya: Shake everyone's hand. You get a prop. You get a prop. [laughs]
Morgan: [simultaneously] You get a prop.
LaToya: Sahjhan says, "I want your word that when time comes, you will show them no mercy." And it's like, why does Sahjhan, you know, want them dead so much? Like, what's in it for him?
Morgan: Mmhmm. Unclear.
LaToya: Mmhmm. So we have Angel, wheeling Darla in the hospital. The gang's found an empty operating room, in a teaching hospital. Is it really necessary to know that this is a teaching hospital? But I guess…
Morgan: I don't know, it is-but I guess it makes sense for why it's so big, that it's kind of like, more of, like, an operating theater. Like, that it's large enough to accommodate all of our people and for, like, all the vampires to show up. I guess?
LaToya: Mmhmm. It seems like probably one of those things that is a network note, where they were fine just having an indiscriminate teaching hospital, but not saying it. And the network said, "Say that it's a teaching hospital."
Morgan: Yeah, probably.
LaToya: Obviously, you know, we're all afraid of Darla doing more chomping. But I did think that Wesley asking to touch her was another kind of residual of the Billy situation.
Morgan: Yeah. That is fair. And I just-but it also just, like, struck me as like, fearful but also, like, kind and respectful. And I was like, Wesley, you're good. I-I do-does Wesley, like, canonically have, like, doctor education? Like, is he-
LaToya: [laughing] This is what I wanted to know about. Because-
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: [laughing] "It's been a while since I looked at these ultra-like, ultrasound pictures." I'm like, when were you looking at them? But I guess maybe Watcher school, with, like-there are other demonic pregnancies.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Not vampire ones, but we know of, like, mystical pregnancies. That's a thing they would probably have to learn at Watcher school.
Morgan: Like, that or like, Wes got a girl pregnant in high school. [laughs]
LaToya: Jesus! And he was gonna do right by her.
Morgan: Yeah! I mean, I would believe it. I believe he'd be a gentleman about it.
NOTES: [laughs]
LaToya: I also believe that his father would make him cut off any, like, interaction with this young woman and it would be terrible.
Morgan: Yes, I believe he would have to do that in secret. And then would have to just, like, completely separate himself and like, provide for the child. But, uh, you know, never see them.
LaToya: You can always make Wesley's back story more depressing, apparently. [Morgan laughs] And we found a way.
Morgan: Yeah, you can't stop me. I'm gonna keep doing it. [laughs]
LaToya: It's Braxton Hicks, it seems, is what is happening. Back at the lair, Holtz is restless, like the Buffy episode.
Morgan: Very much so.
LaToya: And Sahjhan, we learn, is non-corporeal, which is why he can't do the work himself.
Morgan: Mmm, very cool, very cool.
LaToya: It is. And he says something about rules and time tables and forces at work. I love how-like, he's clearly got his own purposes. But he just says enough things, like, vaguely enough, that it's like, ah, it'd be very complicated to actually explain what I'm doing. So just know it's this.
Morgan: How-like, again, I'm just like, Holtz. Like, red flag after red flag. And I get that he's very single minded in his quest for revenge. But that's no excuse for overlooking the evidence in front of you. Like, I-I still-I think he's-I think he's being very foolish here.
LaToya: [laughing] You-Morgan does not suffer fools.
Morgan: I do not. Look, if you're gonna-like, were it me, were I doing some revenging, I-you know, I'd try to do it clear-eyed. I don't wanna get messed with.
LaToya: Well, that's not how revenge works. [both laugh]
Morgan: Well, I think-I guess my anger usually gives me clarity. [both laugh]
LaToya: That's what you think. See, that's what people on missions of vengeance think. But again-
Morgan: Mmm.
LaToya: If you're going on an act of revenge, you must, of course, first dig two graves.
Morgan: No, not me, I'd do everything right. [both laugh]
LaToya: Okay, Emily Thorne.
Morgan: Yeah, I-I foresee no problems for me and my quest for revenge. Our next scene is at Wolfram & Hart. And I am obsessed with it.
LaToya: "Are you now or have you ever been a vampire?" Get it?
Morgan: I loved-just, like, the pan across the conference room table, seeing all the various, like, supernatural creatures and people with, like, prophetic powers, doing their thing, was great. Like, there's the polygraph going on. There's someone just, like, reading tarot cards. I, um, I loved it. I love seeing just, like, a bunch of monsters. It makes me so happy. [laughs] Linwood kills that psychic. Which is a fun little bit of business. [laughs]
LaToya: Based on the world in which they live, the psychic deserves it. [Morgan laughs] Very bad at their job.
Morgan: Did not do a good job. And I love that he's like, "How didn't you foresee this?" And he's like, well, we're gonna be really chill and be nice to you. And the psychic goes, "Wait! No, you're not!" And he's like, "Where was that insightfulness when we fucking needed it?" [both laugh] And then he is strangled with a plastic bag.
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: Very brutal stuff. [laughs]
LaToya: So Lilah brings up the Nyazian scroll, who's now-now Wolfram & Hart knows about it. The fact that Wolfram & Hart is the last to know about the Nyazian scroll is very embarrassing.
Morgan: Em. Barassing. Like, to the point where I was almost like, how is Wolfram & Hart this bad at everything right now? Like, I was-I was disappointed in them, as agents of evil and chaos. [laughs] I expect better.
LaToya: I mean, the fact-the fact that they're letting Gavin do things and he's not equipped for this shows-things have gone to shit once Lindsey left, honestly. They-
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: They planned for Lindsey to take over and then they were fucked when he left. [both laugh]
Morgan: No plans be-yeah, their list was like: Lindsey takes over. And…I don't know, we'll figure it out after that. [laughs]
LaToya: It's like the whiteboard: Lindsey takes over. Angel turns evil. Question mark?
Morgan: Profit? [both laugh]
LaToya: So Linwood brings up all the facts since you want the baby, and how they have to get the baby first and dissect it.
Morgan: Ugh!
LaToya: Yeah, and Berlin has heard about this. Which means that Singapore and then Muncy… [both laugh] might hear about this. Uh, yeah, this is a Cleveland Hellmouth situation we have going on.
Morgan: Yeah, yeah, yeah. We got another office. [laughs]
LaToya: He's gonna make Lilah the scapegoat if they get caught, basically, how much they fucked up. And Gavin's-
Morgan: And Gavin loves it.
LaToya: Gavin loves it. But then she's like, um…[laughing] she says something that's supposed to be cool but then she ends up fucking up more, too.
Morgan: [laughing] I know. Watch this!
LaToya: Lilah is taking those L's. She calls this-this magic assassin. And she gives him an order. And then he, like, does magic to get his sword and he goes like, "magic sword! Cool!"
Morgan: This dude was hunky. I was like, okay, Lilah. Like…maybe there's some stuff about your social life-
LaToya: Right? [laughs]
Morgan: That Gavin doesn't know! [both laugh] And I was like, okay, get this little himbo to do your bidding, I love it.
LaToya: Yeah, she definitely fucked this guy. [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah, congrats, Lilah.
LaToya: Go off, queen!
Morgan: [laughing] Fuck the haters. [both laugh] They don't know you.
LaToya: Girl boss!
Morgan: [laughs] She is very hashtag girl boss.
LaToya: She is. She's-she's my Cruella. [both laugh]
Morgan: Women can do anything. Even be horrible. [both laugh]
LaToya: Yeah. Let's see my notes. [laughing] Wes, when were you studying ultrasounds? And then he realizes it's a human boy. And Wesley and Fred are both like, aww! And then Angel…
Morgan: Ah!
LaToya: Proud papa!
Morgan: He is. Also, Gunn thinks it's a CHUD. Um, which…[both laugh] I screamed at. [laughs]
LaToya: Gunn.
Morgan: But Angel-Angel just keeps saying, "A son!" Like, "I have a son!" Like, ugh! He just melts me. He's so excite-like, again, just seeing him get something he never even knew he could have. Like, it's lovely. I-I will fight-I will stand between this baby and anyone. [both laugh] Like, 'cause I would like to keep seeing David Boreanaz smile.
LaToya: He really be smiling this season. And that's how it's gonna stay, right? Nothing bad will happen.
Morgan: [sarcastically] Uh, yeah, based on my knowledge of the Buffyverse, like, when you're happy, you stay happy. [laughing] There is no prank element on the horizon.
LaToya: [sarcastically] Nothing bad will happen. [laughing] And the Nyazian scrolls, we're done with that! Sahjhan, he's not doing anything shifty.
Morgan: Yeah, the next episode is getting the nursery ready. [LaToya laughs] And then it's just very, like, Three Men and a Baby kind of, like, wackiness. [laugh]
LaToya: I mean, this ep-this season really is just setting us up to be crushed. Because how many moments have just been-like, so many happy moments, actually, in all the chaos.
Morgan: Yes. And it-like, they really are setting up this, like, really warm family unit. And I see what they're doing, and I don't like it. I don't wanna feel bad. You guys, stop it, right now. [laughs]
LaToya: [laughing] What if we just, like-we stop the podcast right before Angel goes back to the hotel? And we're like, well, that's Angel the series.
Morgan: We had a great time, didn't we? [both laugh]
LaToya: I'm sure Darla gives birth and it's great and they all are one big happy family. And no one chomps on anyone ever again.
Morgan: Nope! [laughs] And-
LaToya: And that's the show. And suck it, Buffering!
Morgan: Yep. But Fred, similarly, has to do some parade-raining. And like, realizing, where she's like, "Hey, Angel. Yeah, exciting about the son, but, uh, we are surrounded by a bunch of vampires." [laughs] But luckily, they are all chill and they're like, this is the miracle child. We are excited and want to protect him. And every-and it's like, oh, okay. Maybe everything's gonna be fine. [laughs]
LaToya: Cut to black. Angel, the series. [both laugh]
Morgan: End of episode, everybody's happy. [both laugh]
LaToya: Um, yeah. So Sahjhan in his human face is walking Holtz around LA. And this is where Holtz says that there are still families. [both laugh]
Morgan: [laughing] It's just-why would you think those don't exist anymore?
LaToya: I think he just-'cause remember, the world was smaller back then. He just thinks that the world's probably, like, just burned down from vampires.
Morgan: Yeah, yeah, yeah. But do you know what was not bad or confusing to me? The demon gym.
LaToya: Is this your spot? You're like, this is lit.
Morgan: I fucking wish I could work out at that gym! [both laugh] I-like, the freedom I would feel, the complete lack of self-consciousness I could feel working out with all of those, like, tusky demons. I…I am-I'm sad. I-I miss-because of quarantine, I miss the gym. Like, I miss boxing so much. I'm like, if I could just work out with a bunch of, like, grunty, muscly demons. And they wouldn't bother me and I wouldn't bother them. That would be so tight, like. [laughs] I loved all of them and their makeup. And I loved, like, the guy in the corner on the wall on the machines. The two guys boxing-like, it just-it warmed my heart. [laughing] I know they're probably not good dudes, but it seemed like a positive space.
LaToya: Well, I mean, the way Sahjhan describes them is just that they're himbos who know how to crush and destroy.
Morgan: And I'm like, yeah, I wish. Like, I would like to be like-I wanna just-I just wanna get really jacked and [both laugh] be very strong and punch stuff. So I-I wanna roll with these guys. They are good to me.
LaToya: Holtz doesn't because, you know, they're demons. [laughs] Back at the hospital, the vamps, they just wanna protect the miracle child. And then, enter the assassin screaming "Die!" [both laugh]
Morgan: He is so immediately killed. Embarrassing, honestly, for Lilah. [both laugh]
LaToya: Like, Lilah-ugh, another L. No. [both laugh]
Morgan: She can pretend he fought bravely. [laughs]
LaToya: He screams "Die!" It's…[laughing] it's hilarious.
Morgan: Well, he wanted them…to die. [both laugh]
LaToya: [laughing] Does he, like, do like, a front-flip into…
Morgan: [laughing] He does. He does a bunch of flips. Ugh, like, the-such 2000s, like, goofy, blustery masculinity. You know, just like, really at the peak of when there was suddenly, like, a bunch of flips and parkour in all action. And it was just, like, so ornamental and not practical at all. And it would just get really frustrating to see, just guys doing a bunch of flips instead of fighting.
LaToya: It's like-
Morgan: So I appreciated seeing this kind of-[crosstalk]
LaToya: It's like how Chris Tucker reacts to everything Zhang Ziyi does in Rush Hour 2. [laughs]
Morgan: It is exactly that, yes. [laughs] I loved Rush Hour and Rush Hour 2 as a child.
LaToya: I still love the bloopers at the end of Rush Hour 2, where the guy dies, and Chris Tucker said, "He ain't gonna be in Rush Hour 3!"
Morgan: [simultaneously] "Rush Hour 3." Iconic! [both laugh] Talk to a friend about that movie and watching it as a child and being like, action and comedy? [LaToya laughs] Who knew they could do both these things! Together?! At the same time?! [LaToya laughs] Amazing. [laughs] But back to the episode…the vampires are like, look. Your child is very protected by us. He's special to us. And Angel's like, cool! I love that.
LaToya: They are beaming with pride over their child being special and it's really sweet. [both laugh]
Morgan: He's like, you hear that, Darla? Our kid's special! [both laugh] And he's like, and now we're gonna kill all of these humans and give their blood to you, Darla. And Darla's like, sweet, so I am getting dinner. And please know in my notes that I drew the sunglasses emoji. 'Cause that very much felt like Darla's energy in this scene, and I loved it. [both laugh]
LaToya: Yeah, so not great for the gang, but great for Darla. And meanwhile-
Morgan: Everything's coming up Darla.
LaToya: Meanwhile, Gavin's brought black ops into it. [laughs]
Morgan: And he's got blueprints of Angel Investigations. Like, he's at least-has some things of value to contribute to this. So I guess good job, Gavin.
LaToya: He-see, after that colossal failure on Lilah's part, Gavin's up again, basically. [both laugh]
Morgan: Yeah. Oh, yeah, he's like, have you noticed that I'm not Lilah? And I am very good? [both laugh] And then…a new character arrives. [both laugh]
LaToya: Jesus.
Morgan: That…I was just blown away by. Dr. Fetvanovich, an expert in paranormal obstetrics, who's come from the Balkans. He is a dang-ass freak. And he has a big leather duster. And he is grinning as he says he cannot wait to dissect [laughs] this baby and its mother.
LaToya: Dissection all around. He is bad creepy. He is the opposite of Cyril. Don't want more of him. [laughs]
Morgan: I was-I was so delighted by his weirdness. Like, I just really enjoyed the chaotic awfulness of him. Like, he is very, very creepy and unsettling. But something about him, it was so-it just really-it felt so specific. And I just appreciated the specificity of it. And I also just loved his leather duster. [both laugh]
LaToya: With that in mind, I think now is the perfect time for Fuck Watch. [both laugh]
NOTES: [FUCK WATCH jingle plays] Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing Fuck Watch!
LaToya: Who ya got this week, Morgan?
Morgan: Uh, I-we spoke a little bit about this before. And I think I'm going to have to pick Darla. What a queen. It is my favorite thing in the world when people or monsters who do not have feelings suddenly begin to experience them, and really resent the dang things. 'Cause they are pesky, aren't they? And so her, like, crying a single tear in the back of the car and later, just being like, "I'm just mad that you all didn't get murdered!" I love you, Darla. I will buy you a big blood dinner. 'Cause you probably don't like pasta. And I love you, baby. [laughs]
LaToya: Mine's the assassin, because again, what a hunk.
Morgan: Truly hunky. But RIP.
LaToya: RIP.
Morgan: You don't have long with him.
LaToya: I don't, but like, literally, as soon as, like, he was introduced, I'm like, this is a body.
Morgan: Yeah. Like, dang! [laughs]
LaToya: I'm just like-yeah, this is a straightforward, just wanna fuck this guy.
NOTES: [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah, body be bangin'. Godspeed. [laughs]
LaToya: Even after he magically brought his sword to his hand and then he just started shadow-swording for no reason. [both laugh] I'm just like, still hot, honestly.
Morgan: Yeah. I was like, very goofy but like, what's up? Call me. Yeah, great pick.
LaToya: Sword guy. [both laugh] [FUCK WATCH jingle plays] Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing Fuck Watch!
LaToya: Darla's gonna let 'em chomp. Until she learns that they also basically wanna dissect her.
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: And eat her eyeballs. [laughs]
Morgan: And like, wear her entrails around their necks or something? Like, yikes!
LaToya: I feel like no one here knows vampire anatomy. [laughs] And no one seems to think that she'll be dusted at any point, at all.
Morgan: Yeah, I'm confused by people-by their plans for process here.
LaToya: I guess none of them plan to fuck with her heart. But like, I guess you could also-you better not behead her accidentally.
Morgan: Yeah, like, very Hannibal in terms of the, like, how much surgery can you perform on a person before their body just gives out? But I guess if they're a vampire, like, as long as you don't chop off the head, you don't burn the body, you don't, like, put wood in the heart. Should be able to do a fair amount of damage. [laughs]
LaToya: Yay.
Morgan: You can eat those eyeballs, I guess. Yay.
LaToya: Give me them eyeballs. [both laugh]
Morgan: Pop-pop!
LaToya: [groans and laughs] But yeah. So now she's part of the team because she does not like that.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And she calls the vampires "youngsters." [laughs]
Morgan: God, I love her! I loved her so much, 'cause especially Angel's like, hey, Darla, you wanna, like, help us out? And she's like, nah, I'm good. [both laugh]
LaToya: Until they start talking about chomping those eyeballs.
Morgan: Yeah. Ugh, god. And then I love that Fred very politely asks if Charles has a dagger she could borrow.
LaToya: And he does!
Morgan: [laughs] They are so cute.
LaToya: And then she brings the dagger to Darla's belly. "It's always the quiet ones," says Cordy.
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: But then, oh Fred. Fred, Fred, Fred, Fred, Fred. [both laugh]
Morgan: Fred does something-has everybody's attention and everyone's like, oh, no, we're immediately at your mercy. And then she does a stage whisper to Darla and is like, [whispering loudly] "Don't worry. They don't know that the knife can't hurt the baby." [both laugh] And Darla's like, well, now they do, Fred. 'Cause vampires have excellent hearing. [laughs]
LaToya: And you know what? I think the reason she told Darla is because she's learned from That Old Gang of Mine, like, when she took the crossbow and then she turned it at Gio. Like, that the plan is like, I'm gonna-like, I should tell them when I'm gonna do the plan. [laughs]
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: So she does it this time. But there are vampires who can all actually hear [laughs] what she is saying, because they are vampires.
Morgan: Yes. And I think, like, Fred has been very, like, conservative and traditional, I feel like, in the way that she has viewed Darla's pregnancy. Like, she seemed to really pale at Darla saying she, you know, wanted to get rid of the baby. She's like, why don't we just go to a hospital? Like, she has very-I think, like, very specific and delicate sensibilities about this. So I also do think she's like, well, I shouldn't give this pregnant woman a fright! [both laugh] That wouldn't be good at all! So I feel like it also stems from that. Which, Fred. Baby. Give a little pat on the head, I love you.
LaToya: And then in my notes, I have: "punchy, kicky, stabby, and we're out."
Morgan: Yes, Cordelia even tosses someone! Love to see that.
LaToya: Training, baby! The training is working.
Morgan: That made me very happy.
LaToya: Kyrumption! [Morgan squeals and laughs] Moira!
Morgan: We-so then we go to-back to the Hyperion. And we see the tactical guys.
LaToya: And the doctor. The doctor who's still on his bullshit. Morgan's loving it. Iwrote in my-like, my notes literally have: "Doc's whole thing is 'I'm creepy.'" [laughs]
Morgan: Truly, just-again, a dang-ass freak! [LaToya laughs] Like, such a-a weirdo! Like, he's just coming in in his duster and he's like, "We'll need a cage for the baby and the mama." And I'm like, okay! [laughing] Cool! Like again, he just…unapologetic. Really committing to having the absolute weirdest vibe. [laughs]
LaToya: See, 'cause here's the thing. Unlike Holtz, he's not trying to have layers. He just has the one thing. [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah. I'm like, I-I believe it. I have no questions. I'm just like, yeah, this guy's a weirdo. [laughs]
LaToya: Well, now-okay, now I really-I realize who should play Holtz, based on our past discussions. It's Kris Polaha.
Morgan: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. Get him back. [both laugh]
LaToya: No one will notice that he was already there. Yeah. Perfect. If you really wanna do the parallels between him and Angel, like, make him like the same age as Angel.
Morgan: Donezo. [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: We then go to the car. [laughing] Gang's on the move. They are so cute.
LaToya: [singing] "Gang on the run!"
Morgan: They're all just-all of them, riding together inside the convertible. Like, all of them squished in is so adorable to me. I love it, and everyone's okay. They have evaded any remaining members of the vampire gang who are stalking them. And Darla is crying. [laughs] Angel's like-everyone's like, you crying? And she's like, shut up! [both laugh] And Angel's like-
LaToya: I never cried in my life! [laughs]
Morgan: Never cried-I don't know what a tear is! And Angel's like, "It's because you saw the baby. Like, you saw the kid and you're, like, feeling something about it." And she goes, "No, I'm just disappointed that the vampire cult didn't kill all of you." [both laugh]
LaToya: Uh-huh.
Morgan: Darla. I love you.
LaToya: And so, they're driving but they don't actually know where to go.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: 'Cause going to the Hyperion's bad, because obviously, people will be expecting them there.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And you know what? Gunn wants to go to Vegas, again. And again, they say no to Vegas. But you know what? Shoulda gone to Vegas!
Morgan: Coulda been fun. Although, you probably-they probably would have had to, like, pull over on the highway and give birth. Which, we're gonna talk about giving birth in a car later, 'cause I don't care for it. [both laugh] If I could pick-if I had to pick my arena for where I would do that activity, the backseat of a car, on one blanket. No.
LaToya: So you're not a fan of the Citizen Cope song, Son's Gonna Rise, where he talks about his wife giving birth in the back of the car. [laughs]
Morgan: I have not heard it, but I-it sounds like the subject matter does not jive with me. [laughs] But I like that-this is when Wes is like, hey, well, actually. And Cordelia is like, I don't wanna fucking hear "well, actually" out of you. Which is relatable. But it seems to be more like, I don't wanna hear, like, you know, good reasons why we can't do a plan that makes sense. [both laugh] And unfortunately, he's like, well, all of these people seem to know a lot more about Darla's pregnancy than we do. Which means we have to get to the scrolls, which are at the Hyperion, so we gotta go back. And Angel's like, fine. A quick stop. [laughs]
LaToya: Also, they-
Morgan: So the dad energy is there.
LaToya: They still know more than Wolfram & Hart apparently does, so. They're ahead of someone. But yes, back at the hotel, Holtz is taking out black ops guys. [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah, he gives them a bonk. [both laugh]
LaToya: Doc's like, "Is this man with you?" No, creepy doc! [both laugh] And then, watching the surveillance, he's like, who is this pirate with a sword?
Morgan: Yes.
LaToya: And again, it's Finn Mikaelson.
Morgan: The doctor has a bunch of tools and one of them just appears to be, like, a big scooper. [laughs] And it's like, are you gonna scoop the baby out?
LaToya: I'm really surprised he wasn't your Fuck Watch, Morgan.
Morgan: I have no sexual feelings for him. I'm-but I am obsessed with him. So I understand how that is confusing. [laughs] So yeah, Holtz is like, where is Angelus? And all of these people are like…[makes "I don't know" noise].
LaToya: And then Lilah and them are like, he used his old name! Ooh! And then [inaudible] was like, fuck that! Take them out! [both laugh]
Morgan: And then the video and audio gets spotty again, but they manage to hear a bunch of screams. And when Linwood, like, is on the walkie and is like, okay, did you kill him? Is everything good? He gets no response.
LaToya: No response. So yeah, Angel parks in an alley a couple blocks away from the hotel. He puts Cordy in charge to drive if he's not back in five minutes, to just go. And then Darla's about to get emotional again.
Morgan: Mmhmm!
LaToya: But she shakes it off.
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: Angel does some parkour. [laughs]
Morgan: Oh, yeah. He does a little climb, it's cute.
LaToya: Yeah, he gets back to the hotel. Sees all the carnage. A lot of blood.
Morgan: Yeah, not looking good. And then he sees that our creepy doctor has little chicken feet! [both laugh] I, again, screamed. I was like, great! Great! Of course! I-that's-that is good to me. That is what I want. I was very excited.
LaToya: Your new favorite character, and he's just a one and done.
Morgan: I know. [disappointed] And then we're interrupted from the cool chicken feet reveal by, you know, the villain of this part of the season, Holtz.
LaToya: Jesus. [both laugh]
Morgan: I'm kidding. He's like, "Angelus, I've been looking for you." And Angel looks…thrown through a loop.
LaToya: I wonder why! [laughs]
Morgan: Not expecting to see this guy.
LaToya: It's been 227 years, of course he's not expecting to see him.
Morgan: Yeah, it's been a minute! [both laugh]
LaToya: Speaking of minutes. Cordy's about to go, because it's been six and a half minutes.
Morgan: Mm-mm. Yeah. And like-but Fred's like, can't we just wait, like, another minute? Like, what's the harm in waiting another minute? [laughs] And of course, Darla begins to scream in pain, because her water has broken. And then we decide that she is going to give birth in the back of the car on a blanket. And I am not on board.
LaToya: Where is Angel? What's keeping him?
Morgan: Credits. [laughs]
LaToya: Credits, credits!
Morgan: So yeah, I mean, again, very much, like, a part one. Like, you know, I felt so eager to just keep going.
LaToya: How about we don't stop watching episodes? [laughs] Everyone else can just deal with it.
Morgan: Yeah. Yeah. We're gonna leave you guys behind. We're just gonna go forward, you know? [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah, sounds good to me. I think people-if they don't like it, they can suck it. [both laugh] So I guess it's time for me to pick a WB episode that Angel should watch to learn from.
Morgan: Yes, please! [DUBBA-DUBBA-WB jingle plays] Angel is a vampire Does he even like TV? "I think he'll like The WB." They got that hot teen drama To ease the pain and trauma And here's the episode that he Needs to see (aw yeah!)
LaToya: I mean, this could have been used last week. But this is-you know, it's really helpful for a vampire who is impregnating another vampire, which of course is, you know, impossible, as they say.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And this is Episode 13 of Season 1 of The WB's The Mountain.
Morgan: Oooh!
LaToya: An episode called Great Expectations. It's also the final episode to ever air of The Mountain. [laughs]
Morgan: Aww.
LaToya: Only 13 episodes, baby. This is the episode where Penn Badgley's character and Kaylee DeFer's character have a pregnancy scare. Because, you know, teens not being-protecting themselves.
Morgan: [simultaneously] Iconic.
LaToya: Have a pregnancy scare. And yes, Penn does do a PSA at the end of the episode. I think it's teenpregnancy.org or dot com, I'm not sure, I'm sorry.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: But that's part of it. And it's like, sure, you may be thinking, you know, "I can't get pregnant. I'm an immortal vampire." But look. You can't just go around thinking you're not gonna get pregnant or have a pregnancy scare.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And we learn that from the future Dan Humphrey and the future Ivy Dickens of Gossip Girl. So. Yeah.
Morgan: You gotta be-look, protect yourself. No harm in being real careful.
LaToya: Protect yourself before you wreck yourself. Neck yourself before you wreck yourself, 'cause it's vampires. Angel. You should have used a condom.
Morgan: What's the harm? You know? Especially-you would not have wanted a baby with Darla at that time. You know.
LaToya: "It was a bad day." A bad day doesn't prevent you from wearing a condom, men!
Morgan: You gotta do it. You gotta do it. [laughs]
LaToya: And that is the episode that Angel should watch. [DUBBA-DUBBA-WB jingle plays] Angel is a vampire Does he even like TV? "I think he'll like The WB." They got that hot teen drama To ease the pain and trauma And here's the episode that he Needs to see (aw yeah!)
LaToya: Wow, we did it.
Morgan: We really did. You can follow us on both Twitter and Instagram, @AngelOnTopCast. You are also very free to come on our Patreon. Our last post is probably our live watch of First Impressions, so if you didn't make it, you can watch along with LaToya and I as we enjoy Gunn and Cordelia's first ever mess-around. [laughs]
LaToya: Aww, yeah!
Morgan: And LaToya, where can people find you?
LaToya: You can find me on Twitter, @lafergs. From there, you can find my writing and whatever else I'm doing on the tweet box. Of course, you can find the podcast I do with Morgan and our friend named Jill, called The AMPire Diaries, wherever you get your pods. You get all these pods wherever you get them.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Go get them!
Morgan: Go get 'em. We also-also, AMPire Diaries has a new Patreon, which you are very welcome to subscribe, which has a bunch of fun, exclusive content. We're covering Legacies right now as it airs. You can find me on Twitter and any other social media you're interested in following me at, @LorganMutich. I'm being silly there. [laughs] And that is it for me.
LaToya: Until next time…keep the creepy doctors in your hearts and minds.
Morgan: Please do. [laughs] [Angel On Top theme plays]