Angel On Top
Episode 3.13: Waiting in the Wings
NOTES: [CHIME]
LaToya: Welcome back to Angel On Top, a podcast where we watch and discuss every episode of Angel, one by one, spoiler free and in tandem with our arch nemesis, Buffering the Vampire Slayer. I'm your co-host, LaToya Ferguson, AKA the Cordelia Chase of the Buffering verse, snoring and all, AKA Bones, AKA one half of the Gunn Squad-bang, bang!-[Morgan laughs] AKA Theodore K. Mullins, AKA Gilly, AKA lover of long winded bits, AKA Daddy Boreanaz.
Morgan: And I'm your co-host, Morgan Lutich, AKA the Winifred Burkle of the Buffering verse, AKA also Bones, AKA the other half of the Gunn Squad-bang, bang-AKA, um, Frank Scabopolis [laughs], AKA Daddy Dean Morgan.
LaToya: And this week, we're watching Angel Season 3, Episode 13, Waiting in the Wings. Waiting in the Wings was written and directed by Joss Whedon. It aired on The WB on February 4th, 2002.
Morgan: This is the one where Team Angel gets tickets to the ballet and things get horny. [both laugh]
NOTES: [Angel On Top theme plays]
LaToya: Previously on Angel. No Previouslys, actually, 'cause they're not trying to give up the Gru reveal, to the point that he's not even credited with the guest stars at the top.
Morgan: Oh, really? They hid him?
LaToya: Yeah, it just credits our buddies Lorne and the Count in those guest star credits.
Morgan: Oh, gosh. The Count. I have thoughts. [laughs]
LaToya: [laughs] You got notes on the Count?
Morgan: I have notes on the Count. One of the all-time faces. The second you see the guy, he's like, agh! [LaToya laughs] And you're like, okay, I get it. [laughs] Like…
LaToya: I get your deal.
Morgan: Like, vibe-a vibe has never been sold quicker. And more just expediently. [laughs]
LaToya: We open on an image of a sexy demon in one of Wesley's books. [both laugh]
Morgan: I have in my notes, "my Fuck Watch?" This is-I think it's "Sorialus the Ravager." And they've got six boobs, but apparently we've got some time before we have to deal with them. And Cordelia recommends that we file Sorialus the Ravager under "pending."
LaToya: But yeah, Wesley's not even noticing these six boobs because he's too busy, you know, thinking about [dreamily] Fred.
Morgan: Aww! Which yes, that is the only way you should say her name. But he's, like, freaking out over, like, when the timing will be right to ask her out.
LaToya: "When the iron's hot." [laughs]
Morgan: Ugh! That met-as if that-that metaphor gets so aggressively tortured. So it's like, in case you were wondering if Joss Whedon wrote this episode, like, by the end we have just…[laughs] we've, like, plucked that dry. [both laugh] In terms of "iron is hot" jokes. But more importantly, Cordelia tries to fish for compliments. And refers to herself as the ditziest bitch in Sunnydale? Like, okay-
LaToya: I mean, I would say that's Harmony, actually. Like, let's be honest.
NOTES: [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah. Cordelia was less of a ditz and more of, like, a bitch.
LaToya: Yeah, she was just full-on bitch. She was, like, the bitchiest bitch in Sunnydale. This is all a compliment, just so you guys know.
Morgan: Oh, yes. Like, step on me, please. I wrote, "BRB, changing my Twitter bio" because I loved it. [laughs]
LaToya: But she's noticing that-now that she's become intimidating-
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: The men aren't flocking to her, so. [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah, I was pretty sure that was my problem all throughout my youth as well. So-
LaToya: That's-
Morgan: I can relate to…[laughs]
LaToya: That was totally your problem, Morgan.
Morgan: That was totally my problem. I was really intimidating. [laughs]
LaToya: I'm still intimidating. Not just in my youth. Just in my life, always. [both laugh]
Morgan: I'm intimidated by you, but in a good way. [both laugh] But all of this-every single thing that we've said-although this is all good, very charming place setting for where everyone is in terms of, like, how their romantic life is going. For something that Cordy lets slip about the only action she's been getting lately. And it has to do with a loofah and a certain ghost. What? [LaToya laughs] I wrote in all caps, "Are she and Ghost Dennis friends with benefits?"
LaToya: This is a family podcast, Morgan.
Morgan: [laughing] If you won't discuss this with me, you know who I'm gonna have to call upon.
LaToya: Who?
Morgan: One Kristin Russo!
LaToya: What?!
NOTES: [KRISTIN'S CORNER jingle plays] Kristin's Corner! Kristin's Corner! It's all Riley sucks and what the fuck And horny is hot Kristin's Corner is the place For very deep thoughts
Kristin: I'm so glad to be here. Two things, okay? One, Ghost Dennis and Cordelia are having sex. Two-[Morgan and LaToya laugh] with a loofah? Because I just-I'm not sure if a loofah is the tool you want to use in that situation.
Morgan: Now, not to be…crass [Kristin laughs] or to show my naivete, either way.
LaToya: [simultaneously] You pervs.
NOTES: [Kristin laughs]
Morgan: But what does one do with a loofah-
LaToya: We have seen-
Kristin: [simultaneously] Do you not know what a loofah is?
LaToya: Phantom Dennis use the loofah on Cordelia, you perverts.
Kristin: We have.
Morgan: That's the-oh, that's, like, the thing with the brush.
Kristin: It's a very rough-yes, its-its purpose is exfoliation. It is a rough-
Morgan: See, I-mmhmm.
LaToya: They're just exfoliating, you-you pervs! [laughs]
Kristin: They are not! [LaToya laughs] I don't understand how it could be sexually pleasurable. And that is not meant to yuck any yum. It's just that these are sensitive parts, people.
LaToya: We don't know how he's hitting those parts.
NOTES: [Kristin laughs]
Morgan: That is actually what I was going to bring up.
LaToya: Kristin is trying to turn this show into what's happening on Buffy in Season 6. That's what's happening here.
Morgan: Yeah. That's-
Kristin: [laughs] Like, so you're saying he didn't loofah her behind a dumpster? Is that what you're saying? [laughs]
LaToya: Oh! [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah. He loofah'd her at her place of business. [laughter] They loofah the house down together. [laughter] Absolutely.
Kristin: Alright, good luck with the rest of this episode. I think that's the horniest it gets.
Morgan: Yeah, never-[LaToya laughs] nothing else horny happens in the episode. So we should be good. [laughs]
Kristin: Okay, great, yeah, good luck, bye!
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: Bye!
NOTES: [KRISTIN'S CORNER jingle plays] Kristin's Corner! Kristin's Corner!
LaToya: But Angel wants to know, who's doing what with a loofah? [both laugh] You know what? Wesley is a gentleman and a scholar.
Morgan: Wes-Wes covers up so brilliantly. Like, Wes is a true friend and I love him. And I love even more that Angel says, "Ask me why I'm smiling." [laughs]
LaToya: After he says-after she tells him, "So you went with the dark colors today?" Which, you know, usually-if this were the first two seasons, that would always be what he was wearing. But you know, Angel's wearing the colors this season, you know?
Morgan: Mmhmm. Yeah.
LaToya: He's stepping out with that too.
Morgan: He is. He has diversified his wardrobe a little more. But today, he's in darker colors. When he is asked why he is smiling, he says, "Because we are stepping out!" Old Man Angel strikes again.
LaToya: Old Man Angel is in full force here.
Morgan: I was so happy to see him. He is so dorky. But again, hot. [laughs]
LaToya: [laughing] The hottest old man. The hottest old man around.
Morgan: Absolutely. Speaking of hot, our next scene is outside the Hyperion. It's a Gunn and Fred scene.
LaToya: It is. And this is the first scene where things were cut from the shooting script, and I have to note this.
Morgan: Mm.
LaToya: Because-so this scene's, you know, them talking about how Fred can eat-
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: So much, and he calls her a remarkable woman. But the scene in the shooting script starts with him in the middle of a story, telling Fred about a story between him and his sister, and like, a fun thing they had. And he's like-
Morgan: Aw!
LaToya: "I like talking about my sister when it's with you."
Morgan: Ohh! That's so nice.
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: That's-'cause, like, we already know he thinks she's cute and that she's, like, cool and stuff. But knowing that he can feel vulnerable with her is huge. That would have been really nice to see. Like, I get for timing, but yeah.
LaToya: And Joss even notes, like, this scene might possibly be too long, too. Like, in the script.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Which, I gotta say, that is-that's good to note.
Morgan: Ooh, okay, I will be checking out that scene in the shooting script. But yeah, he teases her about her appetite and breakfast food. And she, like, play-hits him, which, like, Fred, stealing my moves. [both laugh] And he's like, "whatever, you know you're gorgeous." And her face. [laughs] I have written, all caps, "Eek!" in my notes. She's got it bad, too.
LaToya: He just gives her-like, it's a matter-of-fact "you know you're gorgeous" and he just, like, walks on. And she-she's making those eyes, as we would say.
Morgan: And it's really sweet, 'cause you just kind of get the feeling that, like, I don't think Fred's been treated like that before. There is something really nice about, like, someone making a move on you and being, like, confident that you're awesome. And polite about it and, like, not aggressive but just kind of, like, letting you know what's what. I think that Gunn is walking a really specific line, like, with his treatment of Fred, probably because they're coworkers. And I think he's being like, "I'm over here, liking you. If you would like to come join the space I'm standing in where I'm over here, liking you, you are welcome to come in here and maybe like me back." I appreciate the amount of, like, respectfulness but also, like, clear interest he is showing her. Which is a small note for one-one Mr. Wyndam-Pryce. [laughs]
LaToya: Ah. Wesley.
Morgan: Buddy.
LaToya: Wesley, Wesley, Wesley. Gunn's excited, also, because-and here's the thing. This is a great script, in general.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: The Whedonisms, you know, they're abounding. But you gotta-[laughs] this very white man writing these black man-[Morgan laughs] black man's lines. "Mahta Hari is the tightest band in LA. You guys are gonna be trippin' out." Which, I'm sorry, J., that you had to say this line. It does get better just because of the rule of threes, when they keep saying it. [laughs]
Morgan: Yes.
LaToya: But on its own? It's bad. [laughs]
Morgan: I-yes. I was wondering what you would have to say about this. [LaToya laughs] Also, why would you ever trust Angel to get you concert tickets? I would not trust Angel to do a dang-a normal errand of any kind for me. Like, I know he'd find some way to ruin it by brooding.
LaToya: Gunn, why didn't you just go with Fred to get the tickets? You guys were just at breakfast. Like, you could go get tickets together. That's a thing you could also do. [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah, I don't understand why it would be more convenient for Angel to do that. But he says that instead of getting the tickets to Mahta Hari, like Gunn wanted, he got tickets to the ballet. And he pitches it to the gang.
NOTES: [Clip from episode plays]
Gunn: You got ballet on my Mahta Hari tickets.
Angel: This is the Blinnikov World Ballet Corps.
Cordelia: He's been saying that like it has meaning.
Angel: This is one of the premier companies in the world. And they're doing Giselle! It's their signature piece.
Gunn: This is all like some horrible dream.
Morgan: Angel reveals that, when he first saw this ballet, he cried. "And I was evil!" [laughs]
LaToya: And that was in 1890.
Morgan: Mmhmm. So put that in your Shanshu prophecies.
LaToya: Yeah. But Gunn says the trust is gone. He trusted Angel to do one thing and he got ballet tickets. Cordy's hyped because they get to dress up.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Old Man Angel says tight and trippin' out. He repeats Gunn's words back to him. So that-[both laugh] see, it's funnier now.
Morgan: It is very funny when he says it, yes. [both laugh]
LaToya: Meanwhile, all of LA is buzzing about Giselle. And the Count says, it'll be the performance of a lifetime. I guarantee it. [laughs]
Morgan: This is where I write, "spooky guy with jewel promises performance of a lifetime, 'cause jeez." Again, within seconds of appearing, he's just like, spooky and menacing. And you know, you and I. We're Los Angeles, you know, locals. And we can assure you that when the ballet comes to town, this city simply buzzes. [both laugh]
LaToya: Ah, the first thing we're gonna do when the town, like, really opens up. We're going to the ballet. We are stepping out.
Morgan: We are stepping. And yeah, we'll at least see one ballet.
LaToya: We'll also be tripping out.
Morgan: We'll be tripping out, we'll be stepping out, and we're gonna see a tight ballet. [both laugh]
LaToya: But yes. This amazing…villain-clearly, the villain-
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: Count Kurskov, played by playwright and character actor, Mark Harelik.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Who played both himself and God in the TV show Preacher, which makes me wanna watch the TV show Preacher. [laughs]
Morgan: Ooh, hell yeah.
LaToya: He was on my beloved Imposters, Getting On. He is the third Jedediah Lawrence in Boy Meets World. Like, the-'cause you know, Topanga's parents were always recast.
Morgan: Right.
LaToya: Yes, he was the one paired with Marcia Cross.
Morgan: Oh. Okay, cool. Cool, cool, cool. I think it is very important to note that in this-that we see this whole scene from, like, this POV of someone hidden. Someone wearing white gloves and laughing menacingly. This is where I write, in all caps, "Phantom of the Opera?" question mark, question mark.
LaToya: Gerard Butler just rounding out the daddy cast. [laughs]
Morgan: God, I wish Gerard Butler was in this. [laughing] That would actually make me cry laughing.
LaToya: [laughs] We couldn't do a coherent episode.
Morgan: No.
LaToya: On Hulu, it says "sinister chuckling" and it says that throughout the episode. I need to make clear. It is both sinister chuckling and sinister sobbing. It's both.
Morgan: I have to say, 'cause at first, I did not know what to register. I was like, is that crying or laughing? And it was very upsetting. Did you watch this with headphones?
LaToya: No, no, no. I just watched it on my TV with the subtitles.
Morgan: So because I was watching this while my boyfriend worked, I watched this all with headphones. And I have to say, all of the creepy laughing, when you have it really just inserted deeply into your ears via earbuds, is so upsetting. [LaToya laughs] I felt, like, ill at ease and it was light outside. When I was hearing, like, [imitates creepy laughter], like, inside my ear, just-ugh, I didn't like it. I kept, like, moving around and I felt very scared, so.
LaToya: So it did its job is what you're saying.
Morgan: Absolutely. We then cut to titles. And we come back from titles. We're shopping.
LaToya: Women, they do be shopping.
Morgan: They do! Certainly Cordy and Fred are in this scene.
LaToya: But aren't they, you know, poor?
Morgan: [laughs] Good point. So the plan is to pull a Lizzie McGuire and to wear the dress and hide the tags and then return it. Hope you don't spill a slushie on it and then have to wear your backup pair of jeans and then find out that those are actually a very cool pair of jeans all along.
LaToya: [laughing] Have you been, like, rewatching Lizzie McGuire on Disney Plus?
Morgan: No, I just remember every second of it. [both laugh] I am so obsessed with this scene, it's so cute, 'cause it's really nice. Again, like, having another woman around is so great. 'Cause now Cordy is, like, not just, like-there is no, like, and Cordy's the girl and Cordy's, like, the one lady. Like, now there are two and it's nice.
LaToya: Yeah. It also, like-I think it makes her friendship with Wesley feel better. When it's just like, and there's also another girl she can talk to and not just, like, all she cares about is Wesley's thing. She cares about Fred, too. But unfortunately…
Morgan: Mmm.
LaToya: She…I know Cordy doesn't think she knows, but she should do some thinking here, because she does not know.
Morgan: There is a deep and fundamental miscommunication between the two of them. It's clear that Fred thinks they're talking about her and Gunn. Cordy thinks they're talking about her and Wes. And basically, like, it's like-
LaToya: And Cordy, you should know it's about her and Gunn. Like, you should be paying attention to this. It's very obvious. They're not hiding it.
Morgan: [simultaneously] Like…can she not see? Can she not see the vibes? But also, more importantly, Fred loves the ballet because she used to see the Nutcracker every week and her first sex dream was about the Mouse King?
LaToya: I was hoping we could skip past that, but okay. [laughs]
Morgan: Sorry, I can never skip past that. That is so spot on. Like, in a piece-
LaToya: I'm like, that sounds very Morgan to me. [laughing] I'm like, I don't know if she wants to address this.
Morgan: I just think it's like a perfect piece of character writing. And the way she delivers it with such absolute glee, I think is, like, a perfect bit of, like, Amy Ackerisms.
LaToya: Yeah, Cordy says "he feels," to which Fred says, "he feels? Feelings?" I'm like, Whedon.
Morgan: Ugh. Oh, yes. And they're like, and if you're lucky, there'll actually be some feeling, like, later. And I was like, alright. [both laughs] I get it, we used it in all the ways.
LaToya: But Fred wants to set up Angel and Cordy.
Morgan: Yeah, she wants a dress that'll make Angel go crazy. To which Cordelia says, "Angel's already crazy." [both laugh] Absolutely amazing.
LaToya: Cordy, she's talking about awooga!
Morgan: Yes. And yet, Cordy is very skeptical. She's like, absolutely not. Like, that's not how he sees me. And I'm like…okay, so first she can't see that Gunn, like, and Fred have something going on. Second, she can't see that Angel-
LaToya: Cordy's powers are actually rusty. Since becoming half-demon and, like, her visions getting better, like, her original human powers, they're rusty. [both laugh]
Morgan: I agree, yeah. It's like those senses have weakened. Yeah. She needs to get her groove back. [both laugh]
LaToya: Ooh, I would watch an episode called How Cordy Got Her Groove Back.
Morgan: Yes. Now. [laughs] Our next scene's an Angel and Lorne scene. Angel got fancy. He's in a tux. He's in a tux that Connor puked on and Lorne is cleaning the puke off of, but it's looking pretty good.
LaToya: I think about this scene a lot. Not just because, you know, Lorne is bringing up kyrumption, a term that Angel knows because of Fred, and we all know. But because of Lorne calling him pastries, and then Angel being like, "stop saying that and stop calling me pastries." And he's so dopey when he says it.
Morgan: Yeah, he's-'cause the thing is that, like, Angel's become so-like, these people have become so important to him. And he can say "stop calling me pastries," but like, that's about as much as he's going to stop them from trying to emotionally connect with him. Like, he has given up, he has given in. He is a part of a family now and part of a group of people that love him. And they're going to show that love to him, even if it makes him uncomfortable. And that makes me so happy.
LaToya: You said family, and because my brain is poison, I'm like, should I sing See You Again? [Morgan laughs] But I won't do it.
Morgan: But know that we're thinking about it. So Lorne-
LaToya: [sings part of the tune] That's it, that's it.
Morgan: Lorne basically tells Angel, "You know, it's okay to like Cordelia. She's fucking amazing, right?" He's like, "If I thought she was into green, like, I'd be over there." [laughs] And I was like, Lorne…
LaToya: That's how we learn Lorne is bi for Cordelia Chase. [laughs]
Morgan: Yes. Bi for Cordelia, our next jingle. But I love it so much, and Angel actually does not say-like, doesn't brush this off. He says, "What do I even have to offer her?"
LaToya: [groans]
Morgan: Which, I write in my notes, "Um, your feelings?" [laughs]
LaToya: How are we…supposed to deal? He-Lorne calls Cordy a champion, old school. And I'm just like, two champions should smooch. To the point where I-in doing this rewatch with you, I'm just like, I'm not even annoyed that I'm saying champion all the time. I just want them to smooch!
Morgan: I would like them to smooch. And we are very lucky, because [quietly] they're gonna smooch later in this episode. [normal volume] But it's-
LaToya: What?!
Morgan: Nothing, nothing, nothing. You don't have to know about it. But…[laughs] it's so lovely. And they have such-like, I think they've done such a good job building to this, where-all doing it while both of them, like, remain pretty oblivious to their connection to each other, which I think is incredible. Like, they keep-it's as if they're going to suddenly be married and, like, have rings on their fingers and, like, be like, wait, what happen-do we like each other? Like, it keeps-it's as if-they keep dating each other and being a family and being in love-
LaToya: They're so domestic, yeah.
Morgan: Yeah-without ever actually, like, saying the words or doing the, like, specific actions. But like-or you know, making with the smoochy, so to speak. But like, you guys are-like, you're a partnership. You're raising a child together. You spend all your time together. You think the most of each other. Like, a lot of these things have a pretty heavy correlation with being a couple.
LaToya: And as Lorne says, Angel has a thing for ex-cheerleaders.
Morgan: True. [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah, and you know, we talk a lot about enemies to lovers. But like, I like a friends to lovers thing. I don't know if you can tell. But I really like a friends to lovers thing.
Morgan: Hmm. I'm just seeing if this tracks with what I know about you. Actually, it does, that's so weird. [both laugh] It fucking-friends to lovers absolutely rips. This is no exception. Like, it's because all of this comes from such, like, a mutual kind of respect and affection. And I think that's what you want to see for the Angel we know now. Like, you wanna see someone-you want to see him accept that he is liked and loved for who he is, before romance is even a part of it. 'Cause I think that's the piece of things that's really difficult for him, like, is just understanding that he's cared about and he's, like-that he even could be dear to someone like that. So I feel like all of the stuff they've already done is, like, a lot more of the battle than either of them could possibly think, so.
LaToya: Yeah, 'cause it's clear Angel doesn't, like-he just doesn't think he's worthy of Cordelia. He thinks he's dirt compared to her. That's what we keep coming back to, basically. And he doesn't understand what she would see in him at all.
Morgan: Yeah. Which is…which, I mean, is because he can't look in a mirror, so.
NOTES: [both laugh]
LaToya: If he could see that panim.
Morgan: Yeah, if he could see that cute little face. [laughs]
LaToya: And then Cordelia's standing in the doorway and I literally say out loud, "Jesus."
Morgan: I, um…I write, "Cordy in a hot dress" in all caps. I have Angel, I'm drawing the eye emoji. And-
LaToya: Of course you are.
Morgan: There's all of this stuff about how tonight, we don't have to be ourselves. [laughs] Huh!
LaToya: Hmm.
Morgan: Is a theme starting to approach about, you know, play acting and the kind of things that we can allow ourselves when certain things are pretend or theatrical? And how sometimes real feelings can spill over into expressions of artistic joy? Perhaps.
LaToya: I just heard expression.
Morgan: It is called expression, baby. [both laugh]
LaToya: But yeah, she's like, "We're young sophisticates." And I'm like, young sophisticates kiss.
Morgan: Yeah. I've heard-I've heard they do that. So then, out in the lobby, we have Fred, wait-looking at an empty doorway.
LaToya: Oh!
Morgan: Oh, do you want-
LaToya: I'm sorry, I just saw this bit that was cut out, which is hilarious to me. [laughing] And I'm-it probably was cut out because the network's like, no, you can't have that. Which is, where Lorne says that Connor's asleep. "He so much as peeps, I'll chloroform him." [both laugh]
Morgan: Amazing. Then, out in the lobby, we have Fred looking at an empty space where it seems like a hunk should be. Gunn-we hear him. And he is like, "Promise you won't laugh?" And she's like, "Stop being such a little girl!" And he comes out in a tux.
LaToya: To which, Joss wrote, "Gunn steps out of the office in his tux. He is James fucking Bond, born to wear a tux."
Morgan: And-and he did it. And he did that. That was-that was taken quite literally, 'cause fuck. J. August Richards looks so good! And Fred-oh my gosh, does Amy Acker play seeing Charles Gunn in a tux pretty dang perfectly-that she is just, like, stunned, overwhelmed, in awe, and then, upon reflection, giggly. [both laugh]
LaToya: And she says, "You're so pretty." Which he is!
Morgan: Mmhmm! Now LaToya, this is kind of seeming like a pretty good job to honor one Charles Gunn. How could we even begin to do that? As podcasters in the Buffering verse, what is our love language?
LaToya: Slicing our palms and pledging to him? [laughs]
Morgan: Hmm. Close. Do we have any other options? We could do a long bit.
NOTES: [laughs]
LaToya: Oh! Huh. A jingle!
Morgan: I would love a Gunn jingle!
LaToya: Hit it, bitch!
Morgan: Woo!
NOTES: [GUNN jingle plays] Check that tux, check that bod Sign me up for the Gunn Squad Did someone say golden god? I'm all in on the Gunn Squad Yeah boy, play it, himbo king Sign me up for the Gunn Squad Either way, he's curmudgeonin' I'm all in on the Gunn Squad Bang bang! You know Charles gonna shoot his shot Bang bang! Cracking skulls up and down the block Bang bang! Got a smile that make the panties drop Bang bang! Gunn Squad, Gunn Squad
Morgan: Thank you so much, Jenny! A new Gunn jingle! This is the best!
LaToya: So sensual.
Morgan: Yes.
LaToya: And I'm smiling like a big old goof at these two, honestly.
Morgan: I am just absolutely losing my mind. They're so cute. And then Wes shows up and…and he tries to, you know, be charming and put some moves on. And…
LaToya: My exact note is, "Enter Wes with a shawl for her. Boy, she's not into you." [laughs]
Morgan: It's-I have in all caps, "Wes, cringe." I love Wes but he is embarrassing me.
LaToya: I do love Wes. I don't want it to sound like we don't like Wes, but like, again, he's not in the game.
Morgan: He's not in the game. And here's the thing, like, the embarrassment that I have for Wes is second-hand. Like, it is the idea that, like, I am so sympathetic to where Wes is. Like, I know-we all know what it's like to, like, try to make the move and for it to be the wrong time. Like, I am thinking about how Wes-
LaToya: Story of my life.
Morgan: Yeah, I'm-[laughing] I feel this. I'm thinking about-
LaToya: You have a boyfriend, shut up!
Morgan: Yeah, and I didn't always. [LaToya laughs] Thinking about, like, how Wes is going to think about this later. [laughs] Before he goes to bed, for several nights to come, and just feel his skin crawl with humiliation. And I just-it hurts my stomach. It makes me so sad. Like, it's just…you should have made the move earlier, buddy. You know? Maybe then it would have been a conversation, but…you gotta look at who she's looking at. You know? You gotta be aware. You can't be blinded by things like your own fantasy of how you wish things were. Cough-cough, theme, cough-cough.
LaToya: Yeah. He is looking at Fred a lot, but he is not looking at who Fred is looking at, because she's often looking at Gunn.
Morgan: That's the thing. It's like-you-which I think is why his piece of this episode is also really important. Like, as much as everything else is, like, fun and hot and horny and I can't wait to talk about all of it. I think Wes's piece of it is so important, 'cause it's about the other side of fantasy, of, like, wish-fulfillment when you don't get the thing that you wish for. Despite, you know-he might feel very similarly to the way Gunn feels, at the top of this night. But he's not gonna feel how Gunn feels at the end of this night, at the end of this night. And yeah, it's sometimes the way the cookie crumbles, and it's sad.
LaToya: Some of it is just that he has not had the opportunity. 'Cause you know, Fred's being split up and she's going on things with Gunn. That's-like, that's happening, instead of Wesley being the one to go on things with Fred. Or like-but then, it's gotten past that to where Gunn and Fred are having breakfast together. Outside of work, they are just having breakfast together.
Morgan: And he knows that Gunn's interested, too. So at-I don't know-yeah, I don't know what's not computing there or if he's just kind of, you know-just being hopeful. But I love him, and I wish him well. [laughs] Unfortunately, this is just another bad day for Wes. [laughs]
LaToya: [sarcastically] I'm sure he won't have any more bad days this season.
Morgan: [sarcastically] No, this season's never gonna hurt us, never gonna hurt Wes again. [laughs] But Angel and Cordy walk in, arm in arm, and-
LaToya: Mom and Dad walk in, arm in arm. [laughs]
Morgan: It's-it is very Mom and Dad showing up, arm in arm. And they're so cute, and Cordy tells Wes that the iron is hot. And I write, "oh no!" in my notes, because oh no.
LaToya: But she did have a vision that she'll have no visions tonight, so there's that.
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: And Wes has a shawl for her too, so he's not just, like, simping for Fred here. [laughs] He has shawls for the ladies.
Morgan: Yes, he's on shawl duty. [laughs] There's a girl out there who's gonna love that, and her shoulders will never be chilly. [laughs] So they arrive. It's pretty.
LaToya: They're at the Orpheum Theatre, downtown, by the way. And-'cause the show had fucking money, [laughs] in case you couldn't tell still.
Morgan: Yeah, the production value was apparent. Everything looked really fucking nice. They get in the audience. We see television's Summer Glau.
LaToya: I mean, she was not television's Summer Glau at this time. Like, this is her debut. Which I will say, this is a really good debut for her. First of all, she's a great dancer, in case you couldn't-didn't-couldn't tell.
Morgan: Yeah, I noticed. [laughs]
LaToya: She's very good. I'm like…there's a reason why, like, eventually,there's-that episode of Terminator: Sarah Connor Chronicles where she's also doing ballet. It's like, let's remind you, she's really good at ballet.
Morgan: She's great. Like, I love Summer Glau. Like, I know you are not a Firefly person, but I very much was.
LaToya: I-I'm-like, for some reason, I'm just not a Firefly person, you know?
Morgan: Yeah. I love-
LaToya: I like everyone in the cast of Firefly. [laughs]
Morgan: Oh, I mean, yeah. It's pretty good-
LaToya: Besides, you know, some bigot.
Morgan: Yep. [laughs] With the exception of one bigot, it's a pretty great cast. Pretty talented cast, at least. And it-she's wonderful and her, like, dance training is-she's a very physical performer. And, like, I think you see that a lot with people with dance training being one, good at action, and two, good at being, like, physical as actors. Like, they talk about it a lot with Chris Evans as Captain America, with like, his dance training being really instrumental to, like-he's the only Marvel actor who, like, does his own running and things like that. Like, for most other people, it's doubles but Chris Evans has got a cinematic run. And Summer Glau's got a cinematic everything. [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah. Olivia Liang, our beloved Alyssa Chang, who's now the lead on The CW's Kung Fu. Like, she comes from a dance background, so that translated to that.
Morgan: That's perfect. And yeah, I think-like, Summer is so good and she's so mournful. [laughs] Like, she's-she's giving us such sad prima ballerina energy, and I do love it. Like, you do kind of-much like with the Count, one look at her and you are like, oh. Maybe all's not well. [laughs]
LaToya: Maybe I will freeze time now. [both laughs] Just to see this again and again and again. It's-'cause obviously, we have noted some Joss Whedon stuff and we're going to, throughout this episode. But like, it's understandable to be like, yes. This one. I will cast her in something in the future because of how good she is here. Like, I think this is, like, a star-making performance, which is not always the case with dancers. Like, a lot of dancers, you know, will like, be in a movie or TV show-
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And like, they won't be great at the acting part. I think her acting is very good, as we'll see later in the episode, like, really with dialogue. I think her acting's really good. Like, Center Stage, a movie I love. I think Amanda Schull's not good at acting in the movie, but I've-she's grown to become a very good actress, I believe.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Like, in shows like 12 Monkeys and Suits, like, she's great there. But like, I would not say she was a great actress [laughs] in the movie Center Stage, you know?
Morgan: Fair enough. And I-like, to the point where I kind of forgot this was how, like, Joss came into contact with Summer. And I was just, like, surprised she did not have more to do as an actor. But it's very much a, like, you cast a ballerina to do a thing, and they have a couple of lines. And she crushes hers. She's-her scene with Angel is so good. Our spooky Count is watching the ballet. Cordy falls asleep and snores quite loudly. [laughs] Angel has to nudge her. But Gunn?
LaToya: Well, no, before we get to Gunn-
Morgan: Oh, please.
LaToya: He nudges her, so she leans on his shoulder. [Morgan snorts] And he's like, okay.
Morgan: I'll allow it.
LaToya: He is content now, which is also noted in the script.
Morgan: [laughs] And then Gunn is, um…is perking up. He's leaning forward, he's grinning, he's watching with rapt attention. But then, suddenly Angel sees something that gives him pause.
LaToya: But he doesn't say something, because that would be rude.
Morgan: Yes. He doesn't. [laughing] But when the act finishes, Gunn yells, "Bravo!" Which, iconic.
LaToya: Which, I honestly have no idea if J. said anything about Joss or-but it seems like Joss really loved writing for Gunn, at least from this episode's script.
Morgan: That's great.
LaToya: He just-he really-it seems like he was enjoying the Gunn stuff a lot. To write.
Morgan: Good. Well, that is what that character deserved, so that does make me happy to hear. In spite of other things that I'm less happy about. [laughs]
LaToya: Cognitive dissonance, but not really, but kind of.
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: That's what we have to do. That's our job.
Morgan: No, that's so fair. And it's the thing where, like, there's-we all contain multitudes. And a lot of things are going on, so-
LaToya: I have layers, bitch. [both laugh]
Morgan: Hell yeah. But yeah, like, I think-I'm glad to hear that and I hope that his experience doing this show was as good as it could be, given a lot of the things that we've heard, which were probably not so great. But yeah, Gunn is great in this episode and I'm excited to read the script. Our next scene, we're going out for intermission. We're in the hall. And [laughing] Gunn does say, "These guys are tight and I am tripping out."
LaToya: Rule of threes, baby. It's perfect now.
Morgan: [laughs] No notes. And Angel's like, yeah, so weird thing. Nothing has changed. These are the same people I saw, in 1890. And Cordy's just like, ah, wow. That they would dare do something magic on our night out. [both laugh] She's like-
LaToya: "Are there snacks?"
Morgan: "Hmm, it's a puzzler. I'll go get snacks." [both laugh] So, like, with this all in mind, Angel and Cordy decide that they're gonna go snoop.
LaToya: Cordy…obviously, we know she came from money.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: But as we also know, money does not indicate class. Elon Musk. [both laugh]
Morgan: SNL host Elon Musk.
LaToya: [simultaneously] SNL host Elon Musk.
Morgan: Our next scene, Angel and Cordy are descending an elegant staircase, which I wish. And there's a guard guarding the hall. And they're like, should we distract him? And Cordy has this great-like, "Should I make with the distracting? Should I-" and she's doing all this, like, old-timey movie dialogue. And Angel says, "I don't know, if I'm that guy and the most beautiful woman in the world comes up to me, I'm thinking-"
LaToya: All caps in my notes, "the most beautiful woman I've ever seen!" No, not the stupid part, Angel!
Morgan: She's like, you said what? 'Cause he's like, "oh, don't worry, I don't think you're stupid," because he's called her stupid before. And then, like, is like, zoop! And I'm off. Whereas Cordy is still in, like, "I was called beautiful" land. Oh my gosh. It's so cute. And then also, the-like, their ultimate-the ultimate fulfillment of their plan is also adorable.
LaToya: The cut. "Say, do you like bribes? Do I ever." [both laugh] She gives him $20 though, so of course, it's like-it's nothing.
Morgan: Yeah. So Angel decks this guy.
LaToya: This is LA, come on. [both laugh]
Morgan: So then we're stuck in this spooky forever hallway. They-you know, they look down and it goes on forever. And then they look behind them at the door, and there is just more hallway. And they are stuck here, which-meaning, they cannot go back and, like, warn the others or tell them what's going on.
LaToya: Whoops.
Morgan: We see more ballet, more ballet. And then, Cordy and Angel make their way over to the prima ballerina's dressing room.
LaToya: Hoo! [laughs] And of course, some of this scene-
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Was in the promo for this episode, you know.
Morgan: Mmm.
LaToya: They were just, um, bullying [both laughing] people like me, who wanted to see these two get it on.
Morgan: Good god, yeah. Angel notes that the room is unchanged, and I'm like, you been here before, mister? [laughs] But our prima ballerina has, like, a very fancy vanity. But suddenly, Angel and Cordy-as they are, you know, snooping around for clues-start to feel very warm, and start to feel very certain that something happened here.
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: And Cordy, just out of the blue, orders Angel to undress her. I, of course, write down, "I Only Have Eyes for You vibes." And they're like, huh, this isn't us, is it? But the scene carries on nonetheless.
LaToya: Yeah. Angel is fighting it, he's like, "this isn't us." Then Cordy snaps out of it, like, yeah. [laughing] But then he snaps into it, and she snaps back in as well.
Morgan: Yes. And they are these, like, you know-she's the ballerina. He is, you know, her lover. They shouldn't, but also, they must. And dang.
LaToya: My note is-again, all caps, "Hot, hot, hot." I'm bi for Boreanaz, and for Carpenter, and for this dressing room. So I guess play the Bi for Boreanaz jingle right now, please.
NOTES: [BI FOR BOREANAZ jingle plays] He's got a broody stare and hot spiky hair If you're straight or gay, Your tingly feelings don't care You're just being honest 'bout this Sexy demonic and you're… Bi for Boreanaz Bi for Boreanaz Bi for Boreanaz
Morgan: Cordy delivers a line of dialogue that I wrote down in all caps. [laughs] Which is, "I'm only alive when you're inside of me."
Kristin: "I'm only alive…[LaToya laughs] when you're inside of me!" I almost fell off of my couch. [laughter] How is this on network television?
Morgan: I cannot believe that was allowed. It-
LaToya: This show's lead-in was 7th Heaven. [laughter] We got a lot of viewers, but there was a drop off because they were like, not this Satanic show. [laughs]
Morgan: This is sinful stuff, folks. [laughs]
LaToya: Imagine you're watching your 7th Heaven and you're seeing promos for this.
Morgan: Which I'm sure, you know, it was like, 7th Heaven, commercial break, Charisma Carpenter saying "I'm only alive when you're inside of me," more 7th Heaven. [laughter]
LaToya: I looked up what episode of 7th Heaven it was.
Morgan: Please.
LaToya: It was like, oh no, Simon has been peer pressured. He is drinking at a party to be cool. Commercial. [laughter] "I'm only alive-" [laughs]
Kristin: [simultaneously] "I'm only alive…"
LaToya: "When you're inside of me." Satanic network-religious household-like, The WB's being banned from your household.
Kristin: Oh, no! It was the Lil Nas of fucking 2002. [LaToya and Kristin laugh]
Morgan: I'm so sorry if you weren't allowed to watch Angel because of [laughter] 7th Heaven-based purity.
LaToya: Your friend who made you watch 7th Heaven is [inaudible] [laughs]
Morgan: Name redacted, hope you're okay. [laughter] I write in my notes, "Make out." And then, "I'm fucking dying, they're so hot." [laughter] It's a lot. They're…they're going at it.
LaToya: I…like it.
Morgan: Have to agree. We then cut to some-we cross-cut, some dancing, some kissing, some dancing, some kissing. Cordy had been fiddling with a cross necklace the ballerina had, so it is in her hand. Yeah.
LaToya: I-I feel like I should include Joss's direction-like, his action lines for the kissing. I think it's respectful.
Morgan: Yeah, please.
LaToya: I don't know how things were on set, but-
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: As a script, I think it's respectful. So to end the act, it says, "And kiss they do. Big time." To open the act, the [inaudible] "Well. They're still kissing. It's pretty heated, I must say."
Morgan: I must say! [both laugh] Sorry, but to go in the first person in your action is very funny. [both laugh] Okay. Okay, good bit, good bit. I-so yeah, as I was saying. Cordy was fiddling with this cross necklace, so she has it in her hand. She, like, puts it up to, you know, run her fingers through his hair and burns him with the cross. So they kind of, like, snap out of it for a second. And-so they decide to try to leave, but the leaving is not easy. This is some-
LaToya: The choreography for this leaving. [laughs]
Morgan: Some funny girl, I am woman, you are man-like, type of shit. Like, he keeps, like, spinning her and then pulling her against his body? And I write in my notes, "He keeps spinning her and pressing himself against her, and I'm feral about it." [LaToya laughs] This was a lot. I'm sorry, if you're listening to this and you are not…into this scene, apologies. But I don't get you. 'Cause this is-couldn't be me.
LaToya: To quote Icona Pop, "I don't care, I love it."
NOTES: ["I Love It" by Icona Pop starts playing] I don't care, I love it I don't care
Morgan: I write in my notes then, "Obviously, ghost shit a factor, but like-" exclamation point, exclamation point, exclamation point. They do make it out, though.
LaToya: "Open the damn door." "It's kinda hard." "I kind of noticed." [both laugh]
Morgan: They are horny.
LaToya: Again, a 9 PM show on The WB, but still. Network television.
Morgan: Yeah. They-they make it out into the hall, and they remain quite horny. And they're like, good thing it, like, wears off the second you leave, right? [laughs] Guys. [both laugh] So they're just out in the hall, like, chests heaving like they've both just run a marathon. And they're, like, just making eyes at each other, but also very deliberately not making eyes at each other. And it is, um…
LaToya: And what does Angel do?
Morgan: I don't know, what does he do, LaToya?
LaToya: He removes his jacket, because you know, it wears off right away. And he puts it…in front of himself. [both laugh]
Morgan: Yeah. He does very strategically drape his jacket in front of his…hip area. [both laugh] Which I suppose is…respectful. Good god. We take a break from this, because I need it. And we cut to Lorne and Connor at the Hyperion. Lorne is singing, but he also mentions in his extemporaneous song that he resents that he was not invited to the ballet. Which, I agree.
LaToya: Right?
Morgan: Let Lorne go! It's dark in there. He coulda worn a hat. Like…[laughs] turtle neck. But then there's someone-we're seeing an unknown POV creeping through the Hyperion. I write in my notes, "The return of lil' nipper," because he calls the baby that again, which is very cute. Lorne grabs an axe, sees someone, and says, oh my god.
LaToya: Which is not-I wanna say, is not as impactful as Elena Gilbert saying "You!" [both laugh]
Morgan: But what could be? [laughs] So then back in the forever hallway, Cordy is recalling that in between the making out, they said some stuff, back in the dressing room. And they're like, oh, right, we were afraid…and worried someone might find us, like, a specific someone. Oh. And then it is suggested that they need to go back for more clues. To which I write in my notes in all caps, "Oh, okay. [LaToya laughs] For clues." [both laugh]
LaToya: I can hear the air quotes. Angel says, "I'm marvelling at the wrongness of that idea." Which, I think, is the most Joss line of the episode.
Morgan: Mmhmm, possibly, yeah.
LaToya: Yeah. [laughing] He asks, "What if there's no more talking in that scene?"
Morgan: That killed me. That made me laugh so hard. 'Cause he's also like, hey, I remember a little episode of television entitled I Only Have Eyes for You. Like-
LaToya: [sings] Shebop-shebop!
Morgan: This kind of shit doesn't end well. Like, you know-like-and Cordelia's like, "Yeah, but it's not us." And Angel's like, "It is us, like, kissing. Like, it-kissing you, it's just not something that I-" And Cordy cuts him off and is like, "I'm not that bad." And I write "fools!" in huge letters, fully-
LaToya: Honestly, she is the fool. Let this fool finish his sentence! Let someone finish their sentence, Cordy. You are the one who is wrong all episode. [laughs]
Morgan: It's interesting to think-really quickly. Because, like, as we've said before, like, Cordy-no slouch in the dating, you know, realm, when it came to, like, her time in Sunnydale. Like, she was fairly, like, capable of getting what she wanted.
LaToya: She had a different boy every other week!
Morgan: So is-
LaToya: Before Xander ruined everything. [laughs]
Morgan: So are we to-I guess what I wanna ask is like, are we to believe this is self-sabotage?
LaToya: Yeah, I think that's what it is. I don't think it's something Cordelia's ever had to deal with before, but I think that's what it is.
Morgan: 'Cause this is very real. Like, this isn't-this would be-you know, the only person we've seen her have, like, a real emotional connection to, romantically, in a relationship, is Xander Harris. And that's not right. That-Cordelia Chase cannot have only, like, really loved and been in a relationship with, while being in love with, Xander Harris.
LaToya: Get ready for the one stars now that the Xander hate has come to this podcast, too. [both laugh]
Morgan: I'm so sorry. It's just, like-it's Cordelia Chase, you know? Like, I-I love Xander…
LaToya: Well, now you're gonna get hate for loving Xander!
Morgan: I-but I-
LaToya: There's no actual way to win in the Xander discussion Olympics.
Morgan: Oh, I did-oh, yeah, you're right. To me, Xander is the Julie Taylor of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, where like, I'm like, I…
LaToya: That's an insult to Julie Taylor. I didn't used to hate Xander as much as everyone. But like, Xander can kick rocks. [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah. Um, where I-I begrudgingly am like, you're a part of this family, so I love you, but I don't like you at all. But jeez. Come on, Cordy.
LaToya: But yeah. She thinks that Angel's trying to say that it's horrible to kiss her. No! You fool!
Morgan: Look, we are not advocates for letting men speak often. But [laughs] Cordy-
LaToya: Angel has rights.
Morgan: This time, you shoulda let the man speak! [both laugh] So we have more ballet. Then we go out into the audience. And this is the scene where the guys are on either side of Fred. And both Gunn and Wes are either going-I can't tell if it's for a knee touch or a hand hold.
LaToya: It's a hand touch. They're not perving it up, as far as I can tell.
Morgan: Well, no-like, is a knee touch inherently-
LaToya: I think-well. Gunn could touch the knee.
Morgan: Mm.
LaToya: Wesley could not touch the knee. [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah, I don't feel like Wesley has laid the groundwork to, like, a casual knee touch, but Gunn might have, yeah. But anyways, either of them-both of them are kind of going to make a move. And Fred just says, "Angel! [laughs] And Cordy!" They're gone too long, and I-do you feel like Fred knows what's happening? Or-and is trying to get out of it?
LaToya: I think she's kinda sensing it.
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: Like, Fred's not…I mean, she doesn't know some things. But she's not, like, completely naive.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: [laughing] Like, come on. She's aware.
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: And again, Wesley, you haven't really made your intentions known, so like, she's oblivious for honest reasons in your case.
Morgan: Yeah. So Gunn doesn't wanna go. He doesn't wanna miss the end, but they have to. In the dressing room, I have written, no. I would like to talk about the dry run they do throughout the scene, 'cause it's not working.
NOTES: [Clip from episode plays]
Cordelia: Okay. Let's take it from the middle. I want you to undress me.
Angel: You want me to have sex now with you here.
Cordelia: Yes, but I'm scared.
Angel: But you're afraid.
Cordelia: And afraid. What if we-he-finds us?
Angel: Well, I'm not afraid of anything.
Cordelia: Only good inside, blah, blah, blah…[kissing noise]
Angel: Maybe it only works the one time. You know, when the energy…
NOTES: [sounds of making out]
Morgan: Oh my god. And she drops the cross on the ground, almost immediately-
LaToya: Whoops!
Morgan: So there will be no getting out of this one. [both laugh]
LaToya: Whew!
Morgan: [sighs] So then Wes, Gunn and Fred follow the trail of breadcrumbs that has been left for them, meaning, an unconscious guard. And they enter the forever hall, and we hear the spooky gloved guy start to do their horrifying laugh. And this is when I start to get-
LaToya: Laugh and cry. It's both.
Morgan: The laugh-this is where the laugh/cry starts to get to me. 'Cause we only heard it a little bit before, but now I'm hearing it a lot. And it is, like, making my skin crawl. [laughs]
LaToya: And the Count's just like, deal with it! [laughs] To them. Like, dude, this is what fucks you over. You don't do the-you see this all the time. You could step away. But I guess, again, he has to focus, so-
Morgan: Fair-
LaToya: For it to even exist, yeah.
Morgan: Right, fair enough. So then, back in the-in the prima ballerina dressing room. The lover's name is Stephan?
LaToya: Good old Steve. [both laugh]
Morgan: I…truly, yelling and screaming. Then, Angel slash Stephan says something about "doing this." And then Cordy seems to have a big reaction, so-leading me to write in my notes, "Is this…dot-dot-dot…fingering?"
LaToya: Um, I mean, in my notes…it says, "Well, now Angel is fingering Cordy. Sorry. 'Stephan' is fingering her." [laughs]
Morgan: Does this-
LaToya: And I will just say, again. Joss's script, at least-
Morgan: Mmhmm. Yeah.
LaToya: Is respectful. Which is-
Morgan: Yeah, what is canonically happening?
LaToya: "We don't see exactly what he's referring to, but she breathes in sharply, eyes squeezing shut for an instant. But there is still fear in them as she breathlessly continues." So there.
Morgan: Dang! Okay. So they keep talking about this guy-this-he has an unnatural power, he's an obsessed owner and the prima ballerina is scared to run. And she-
LaToya: The Count is also Klaus Mikaelson. [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah. And she says, "Help me not be afraid." And I write in all caps, "Smooch!" [laughs]
LaToya: Doesn't she say, like, help me, also-like, help me to be not afraid? It's like-it's not proper grammar. [laughs]
Morgan: I think this is…
LaToya: Yeah, "help me be not afraid." [both laugh]
Morgan: Is this, like-I mean, when Summer talks, she has, like, a very thick Russian accent. So I wonder if-
LaToya: [simultaneously] Yeah, it's Russian, yeah, yeah. It's Russia.
Morgan: I wonder if this is maybe perhaps not a-the firmest grasp on the English language-
LaToya: Yes.
Morgan: At the time. But I-yeah. It's-or it's just meant to sound, like, stilted and poetic, who knows. Then in the forever hall, the gang hears something.
LaToya: They hear them fuckin'.
Morgan: Yeah, they hear moaning. Wes is like, pain? Is someone in pain? And I write, in all caps, unfortunately-and please know that it brings me no joy to do this [LaToya laughs]- "Wes, this is why you have no game." [both laugh] Wes hears a woman enjoying herself and goes, is-butterfly meme. Is this pain? [both laugh] And Fred is like, or it's someone…in fun? [both laugh] I can't. Like…don't give me-don't throw softballs at me that I can just-[makes clicking sound] hit into the stands. It's not fair.
LaToya: Anyway, Cordy's topless.
Morgan: We're seeing that belly button. [both laugh] There are stomach kisses. I am…just unwell. Thank god someone tackles Angel off of her, or I would have spontaneously combusted. [both laugh] The masked, glove giggly-cry'ie boys are here. And they start fighting with Angel.
LaToya: Yes, the masked boys, we should note-now that we, like, properly see them-are comedy and tragedy, like, the comedy and tragedy masks. They are even, I believe, in the script, noted as Comedy and Tragedy.
Morgan: Oh! Okay, that makes a ton of sense and I didn't even pick up on that. Because-
LaToya: Morgan!
Morgan: No thoughts, head empty, only-
LaToya: I'm ashamed of you at this point.
Morgan: [simultaneously] "I'm only alive when you're inside of me." [both laugh]
LaToya: Come on!
Morgan: As a theater kid, I'm ashamed of myself.
LaToya: You should be.
Morgan: I'm so sorry. Out in the hall, the-our gang starts fighting our gloved spookies-our Comedy and our Tragedy. And Gunn is stabbed! Which is not what you love to see.
LaToya: Stabbed in the back. The Rebekah Mikaelson special.
Morgan: Ugh, I hated it. And then Wes gets a sword. Fred is smashing the shit out of one of these guys. And I write-
LaToya: She is fucking pummeling that dude. [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah, that's Pylea strong. That is-[both laugh] that's how you get that. And then I write in my notes, "laughter especially horrifying with headphones." So I believe this was the peak of how unsettled I was. [laughs] 'Cause it's loud. And it's really just heavy in the mix, especially for headphones. And yeah. Things are not looking great. [laughs] Then, in the dressing room, Ang-one of the guys stabs Angel and he says, "Thank you" and pulls the knife-the sword out of his chest and stabs the guy, while simultaneously throwing a knife and killing a guy behind them.
LaToya: Okay. So that's very hot. Correct?
Morgan: Yes.
LaToya: So Cordelia thinks that she's still under the influence of the spell when she said, "You just looked really hot doing that." But no. It's just true.
Morgan: I think it's-I don't know if it's necessarily that. Because it also might just be, like, looking that hot, there's no way we're not gonna get pulled back into that scene, if we don't run the fuck out of this room. [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah. That is the natural reaction. So if you're already thinking that, you gotta go!
Morgan: You gotta go. And…just…bless them. 'Cause obviously, like, you-this is maybe not the ideal way for Angel to kiss Cordelia's lower stomach, that we all hoped and dreamed for, you know. [LaToya snorts] You'd want it to kind of be as yourselves, rather than as these, like, ghosts.
LaToya: [singing] "Be yourself!"
Morgan: [singing] "Be yourself!"
LaToya: [singing] "Be yourself!"
Morgan: [singing] "Be yourself!" But yeah, ideally, you know, you'd prefer them to be, like, fully of sound mind and body. But they did, like, agree knowingly to do what they did. They get out before we're passing too many thresholds. [laughs] Then, we cut outside. We're having more sword fighting.
LaToya: Yeah. Wes clearly learns, from Giles embarrassing him in Graduation Day Part One. [both laugh] Reading a goddamn newspaper while fencing him. Like, Wesley now can do things, so that's good.
Morgan: Yes, and I'm proud. And there's-who yells, "Who's laughing now?" That feels like a Gunn line.
LaToya: It is Wes.
Morgan: [simultaneously] Oh, it's Wes!
LaToya: [laughing] He's like, "Well, you. But I still win."
Morgan: Ugh. A king. Like, at least Wes still gets to do that. Like, good for him. He still gets to win a sword fight, you know? Not a totally lost night. [laughs] Our next scene's a Fred and Gunn scene.
LaToya: What?
Morgan: She's tending to his wounds, LaToya.
LaToya: She is.
Morgan: She's-and she's quite scared and worried about him.
LaToya: Yeah, he's cracking-he's cracking jokes. Gunn, come on. Come on, Gunn.
Morgan: [laughing] You can't do this to the poor girl. And this where I write, like, again, the idea that he starts, like, doing kind of, like, Shakespearean dialogue. And I like the idea-
LaToya: He literally says, "It's just a scratch." You know, Mercutio. Romeo and Juliet. I don't know if you've heard this. But in that case, it wasn't just a scratch and he did die. [laughs]
Morgan: Yes. And I love the idea that, like, this episode is about, like, play acting and drama. And about being a different person, whether it's through art or through a special occasion, or just through, like, a special night. And the idea that, like, Gunn uses that to be able to broach the gap between him and Fred in this moment. That he's just like-you know, he says, like-you know, he's like, "The light's dimming!" And she's like, "That's not funny." And then he realizes she really cares, and he does it again, and commits further.
LaToya: I mean-
Morgan: And shows her that this is, like-he means it in-like, the gentle, romantic, playful sentiment. And they kiss.
LaToya: [whispers] What? What'd you say?
Morgan: They smooch!
NOTES: [Part of the GUNN jingle plays] Bang bang! You know Charles gonna shoot his shot Bang bang! Cracking skulls up and down the block Bang bang! Got a smile that make the panties drop Bang bang! Gunn Squad, Gunn Squad
LaToya: I don't know if you've heard. The immortal bard, Shakespeare, once said, "All the world's a stage and all the men and women merely players." I don't know if you've heard that.
Morgan: Wow. Huh, interesting. I'll put that in my back pocket. Yeah. The immortal bard really came through for us. Didn't he?
LaToya: [laughing] The immortal bard, Kenneth Branagh.
Morgan: Kenneth Branagh, yeah. I'm sure they felt the spirit of Kenneth Branagh himself in the room. But yeah, they freaking kiss. And it's really cute. And of course, we cannot feel joy for even one moment, because Wes has to come in and see it and be sad. And I do feel bad for him. And he Charlie-Brown walks away, dragging the sword behind him. [laughs]
LaToya: [sings tune]
Morgan: [joins in] And it's so sad and he, like, falls to his knees. And this is where we kind of do, like, the mislead of like, is he now gonna be, like, taken over by dark magic as well and, like-
LaToya: Yeah. He's feeling the Count's rage. And then of course, we see the Count still watching the ballet, looking like a fucking evil count, like-[laughs]
Morgan: Just like, a little creep.
LaToya: If you were like, what does an evil count look like? I would point-this guy!
Morgan: This guy with his little jeweled doublet. Like, ugh.
LaToya: Jewel and you got the facial hair.
Morgan: That dang-ass freak. [both laugh] So then, we see more ballet, then we're backstage with Cordy and Angel and Gunn and Fred. Wes, like, shows up and he explains everything that's going on by saying- [Clip from episode plays]
Wesley: He was a wizard. He was obsessed with a girl. When he found her with the other man, he went insane with jealous rage, pulled her out of time, out of any reality beyond his theater, his company. He swore she would dance for him forever.
Morgan: So yeah, I like-and I think I essentially said this before-but I do like the idea of, like, Wes's piece of this fantasy theme and storytelling-the idea that, like, fantasy can cut both ways. Like, sometimes it comes true but sometimes it gives us the sense of, like, false security. And when that false security, like, disappears and we see things for the way they really are, everything kind of comes crashing down. And that's what's happening for Wes, and that makes me very sad. Poor guy.
LaToya: But the difference between the Count and Wes is that the Count fights his ins-sorry.
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: Wesley fights his insensibilities, basically. 'Cause he's been, you know, tackling a lot of things, post-Billy. And like-
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: This is…basically, he's at a crossroads here. If he-if he goes Count way, that is, like…
Morgan: Bad.
LaToya: Going to his baser instincts, the things that he didn't want from Billy, basically.
Morgan: [simultaneously] Everything that Billy magnified, yeah.
LaToya: Yeah. He does not wanna do that, even though he's heartbroken. He's like, yeah, he was a wizard, he was obsessed with the girl, went into a jealous rage, pulled her out of time, swore she would dance for him forever. I'm like, is Joss just writing himself [Morgan laughs] and somehow not also seeing that he's the villain? But…
Morgan: Yeah. Yeah, interesting parallels there, for sure. And I think it's-the idea that it's, like, Wes closed his eyes to what was really going on with Fred, because he was, like, living a fantasy world that, like, they could be together. And that she was, like, returning his feelings and all that stuff. So he, like, you know, willingly closed his eyes to some information. But that only goes to a point. Like, he does not delude himself into thinking she's his so hard that he, you know, like, does something awful. He just, like, kind of misses a step and has the rug pulled out from under him. And that's painful, and that-like, there's drama to that and there is hurt to that. And that is a shitty feeling, and I-to that, I wish him a-you know, a slice of cake or something, and a stiff drink. But sometimes that's the way it happens.
LaToya: I mean, get back together with our third favorite army wife, Virginia. [laughs] Because our first, obviously, is Torrey DeVitto. Our second is [inaudible]-
Morgan: Yes.
LaToya: So. Third favorite wife. [laughs]
Morgan: Give her a call! So he explains, like, look, temporal shifts like this, they take a lot of power. All we have to do is, like, overload him. And like, there's this moment where, like, Wes looks at Gunn kind of sharply and we wonder if we can trust him. But we can! And it turns out that Comedy and Drama, the spooky gloved boys-when you kill them, they split into two. So if they just keep killing them and keep splitting them into more and more and more, they can drain the Count's power and save everybody!
LaToya: Rita Repulsa should have done that with the Putties. The Power Rangers woulda been fucked.
Morgan: [laughs] Fuck yeah. So then there's dancing, there's fighting. And Angel finds his way backstage to have a little scene with one Summer Glau, who says, [Russian accent] "You're new." [laughs]
LaToya: [snorts] Please do the accent for all of this.
Morgan: [laughing] I can't.
LaToya: [laughing] Do it!
Morgan: That's the second bad Russian accent I've done today. But yeah, Angel explains. He's like, look, I-I know. Like, I get what's going on, like, I've seen this before. And she says, you know, "he made me. He owns me. I dance for him." Ugh! No, girl! Dance for yourself! [laughs]
LaToya: Again, this is where I wrote in my notes, "It's such a Whedon allegory, it hurts?" question mark.
Morgan: That is-it is really-
LaToya: It's so bizarre, right?
Morgan: Yes. It is odd. And it's interesting because I think-for better or for worse, I think we've found that a lot of these people who are getting called out, cancelled, what have you, have told us who they are in their work pretty clearly. Like, I think these people tend to, like, make art about the thing that they're doing that is harmful. And this is definitely a piece like that, which-I like that we had a fun time watching this episode and that we're enjoying it. And I don't wanna take anything away from our fun time, good coverage of this. But, like, yeah, there's something dark there. And it is…icky. And maybe at some point, we can talk about this more, but-yeah.
LaToya: Especially 'cause Summer-Summer Glau was plopped into a Whedon show, like, right after this, too.
Morgan: Yeah. It's interesting to, like, see him kind of, like, pick her and then keep her. And that-like, that, obviously, has a connotation to it too that I don't love. And yeah, this is hard. Like, it's a tough thing to unpack and there's, like, a legacy that, I think-I mean, I'm sure you've been dealing with since we found stuff out, I've been dealing with since we found stuff out, like, years ago and more recently. Like, all of it is tough and…yeah. I don't know what to say about it, other than, like, it's really complicated and really unfortunate. And fuck it. [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah, fuck it. I already said fuck Joss Whedon, you know?
Morgan: Yeah, hell yeah, yeah. So Angel's like, is that enough? Like, what about Stephan? And she says, you know, like, I waited too long. I hesitated. [Russian accent] "Now all I do is dance." [both laugh] So she explains, like, that it's-she's not just doing the same ballet over and over again. She's giving the exact same performance. She makes the same mistake every time.
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: And you know-and it's-that this asshole never even notices.
LaToya: [simultaneously] And because-yeah. 'Cause he doesn't even know anything about ballet.
Morgan: Guy doesn't even know shit about ballet. [laughs] Oh, I hate him.
LaToya: I mean, he could also just be, like, a terrible-like, an allegory for a terrible network exec.
Morgan: Yeah. So she ends kind of her explanation with "I don't dance, I echo." And you know, that's not a life.
LaToya: That's a-I think about this scene a lot. A powerful line, "I don't dance, I echo."
Morgan: Yeah. It's really sad. And there is definitely something-yeah. There-it-it's really sad, and it's very interesting. So things start to fade, seems like, you know, chopping all these dudes into two is working. Angel urges Summer Glau to do a new dance. She does something different. Like, I wish she did-she unfortunately does not do Julia Stiles's audition dance [LaToya laughs] from the end of Save the Last Dance. I wish she did, but alright. She does real ballet that looks good instead. [laughs]
LaToya: "I've listened to hip hop. Before."
Morgan: [laughs] The Count is like, what?! This isn't the dance I'm used to! [laughs]
LaToya: This whole thing is hilarious. Because people start disappearing off the stage. [both laugh] Angel…hops up…to the balcony, to save the day. Talk about that so I can continue to talk about how hilarious it is.
Morgan: It is so-he fucking zoops up there. And he is like, where's your-everyone-
LaToya: People see this. People see this!
Morgan: What on earth-look, I'm sure LA was buzzing after this about the ballet and about how fucking weird the ballet-did you see that fucking ballet where everybody disappeared and that guy ran up on stage and leapt into the balcony, punched this dude right in the jewel and he, like, lit up? [both laugh]
LaToya: Yeah, 'cause he realizes, like, the Count's power center. It's his ugly-ass necklace, like, that's clearly his power center. [laughing] Because he looks like a fucking DC magician villain.
Morgan: Truly, yes. Like, he-
LaToya: [laughing] He looks like fucking Doctor Strange, actually, in DC.
Morgan: He does have Doctor Strange vibes, you're right. Yeah, it's so silly.
LaToya: She finishes and she disappears, too. To which, again, why I watch with subtitles. The response to this is "scattered applause." Because it's insane! [laughs] What? Everyone disappeared.
Morgan: Yeah, that was part of it. You don't know Giselle, where the end, they all fade to nothing? [both laugh] It is so funny. And he's like, "I-but I love her and she's mine!" And Angel goes, "Start a website."
LaToya: 2002, baby!
Morgan: Like, okay, weird. [laughs]
LaToya: Was that, like, really the strongest line you could use to end this scene, Joss? [laughs]
Morgan: No. Yeah, very Twilight, Edward Cullens saying, "You can Google it." Just-[LaToya snorts] certain things don't age well. [laughs] Our next scene's in Wes's office. And, like, they're like, are you in pain? And Gunn's like, what pain? I-
LaToya: 'Cause he's, uh, looking at his girl.
Morgan: I'm dying. I'm-they're aggressively romantic. I've written no other notes for that scene, so who knows if anything happens in it. Not me. [both laugh] Out in the lobby, Cordy is looking at her dress and she's like, "do you think it's still returnable?" Poor thing.
LaToya: [laughing] No!
Morgan: No, baby. And she's like, okay, we're gonna have to get a lot more cases. She says something about how we don't have to talk about what we saw, what we did, what was or wasn't perky. [laughs]
LaToya: And again, Angel is trying to use his words. He is trying. [Clip from episode plays]
Angel: Cordy. You and I, we've been working together for a long time. [Cordy laughs] What I mean is, you've become a truly extraordinary woman. [Cordy laughs] I know we haven't always gotten along, but I think that we… you know, we…
Cordy: Groo?
Angel: Yes!
Morgan: But unfortunately, that was not a helpful lover's sentence finishing. She saw The Groosalugg. [both laugh] He's back, baby. My hunk has arrived.
LaToya: [laughs] Yeah, Morgan, I wanna know. How do you feel about The Groosalugg? Groo, if you will.
Morgan: I love him. [LaToya laughs] Obviously. I love him so much. Like, the-that beautiful golden retriever. He is so hunky and so hot and so respectful. And if that is not the holy trinity, I don't know what is. They hug! They kiss! Lorne's like, yeah, he just showed up. Like, I guess all this stuff's going on in Pylea. And Angel's like, cool, good for her, I'm gonna go check on Connor. And Lorne's like, actually, he's fine! And Angel's just like, nope, going to check…
LaToya: Oh, baby. Oh, baby!
Morgan: And poor Fred just looks over at them and is like, wow, I thought for sure she was meant to be with Angel. And we end on Wes.
LaToya: And yeah, so another deleted aspect of the show is during the ballet, Wesley is, like, imagining himself on stage with Fred. Because Amy Acker also has dance experience. [Morgan gasps] So there is-there actually is a deleted scene, which is Amy dancing-
Morgan: Oh, wow!
LaToya: Proficiently, because she has ballet experience. And [laughs] Alexis dancing like a dang-ass fool.
Morgan: [laughs] Oh my god, I love-a little dream ballet! Oh, I wish they'd done a full dream ballet. Come on.
LaToya: Yeah, and so when she's like, you know, I guess you can never predict those things, you know? Wes looks at her. And then apparently at the end, it cuts to him again remembering Fred dancing on that stage, that [inaudible] thing, and then it cuts back to him and he's like, "No, I guess you never can." And that's where it ends. I feel like…it's actually for the best they cut all that, just for…again, I made the comment about, like, the show is like, no, we're not gonna do, like, this whole incel, "how dare she not love me?" thing. And I think that might veer into that part. Whereas here, you're, like, thinking, how is he going to, like, react?
Morgan: It is maybe making, like, a bit too much of a meal out of, like, his expectations versus his reality, when I mean, honestly, he's not entitled to anything. Like, that's the thing is that it-it-showing us more of what he wished and-like, leads us to feel more entitled to that outcome. And so I'm glad that they didn't. But I also think it just, like, also leans fully on Alexis Denisof's performance, which I think is really good. Like, he is just genuinely gutted about this. Like, he really likes Fred and it's not gonna happen. And you know, she's with someone he also really cares about. Like, it's like, what is he gonna do, not be happy for Gunn? And like, you know, be an enemy of their love? I can't remember, because I don't know what happens next. [LaToya laughs] But I certainly hope not and that doesn't sound very Wesley to me. You know, he's just gonna have to swallow it and deal with it. But…he's owed at least one night of being really fucking sad, if not a couple months of listening to really sad music in his car. Like…buddy. I'm sorry.
LaToya: Yeah, and I think this episode is very good to be like, yeah, Wes is upset but, like, he's not-you know, he didn't do what he had to do, basically. So he's not entitled to her, whereas I feel like-this is why I, like, you know, would always stay out of fandoms. Because you know, they have their own issues. I feel like fandom felt, like, very entitled to it being Wes and Fred. And the fact that it was Gunn and Fred-obviously, like, she's-she-Fred-Gunn is into her and she is into Gunn. Like, it is clear. This episode makes this very clear.
Morgan: Yes.
LaToya: And just being like, but what about Wesley? It's like, she's not interested in Wesley and Wesley never made it clear that he's interested in her. At least, not in a healthy way. Like, there's Billy, but like, that's just-
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: Billy just suggests that, like, he's a man who finds her attractive. That doesn't really mean that he had, like, feelings for her, you know?
Morgan: Yeah. I mean, I fully agree and we've, I think, sketched this out as we've talked about this whole season. And I do think this lands really well. Like, especially, like, on this episode about fantasy-is that, like, for now, Fred and Gunn-like, that's just a fantasy. Oh, sorry-Fred and Wes is just a fantasy. Like, it's…it's not based in anything real. Even if these two characters do have, like, affection for each other. And I do think, like, Fred cares about Wes and thinks highly of him. Like, it's certainly not, like, that kind of thing where she's like, yeah, Gunn's just better. Like, it's not about that. Like, sometimes people click, sometimes they don't. There's timing to things, there's all sorts of things involved in this stuff. And blaming it on other stuff feels immature and, like, entitled and gross to me. So I-
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: I think it's a valid story to tell.
LaToya: It just-it's-you know, as an adult, you know, as a critic and someone who, you know, consumes media differently. Just going back, like, thinking about what I saw in fandom in general-not just, like, on these shows but like, in everything. It's just like, thinking about, like, the anti-Gunn and Fred stuff. It's like-a lot of it is just, like…racist bullshit. Like, how dare this black man think he can be entitled to this white woman? It's like, well, this white woman likes this black man, that's why. [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah. That's kind of the most important piece of it, is her choice and his choice happening to overlap, so they are sharing a relationship. Like, that's how it fucking works! Yeah, I would encourage people to examine what their…the way they're telling on themselves online, with the way that they criticize certain characters and certain ships and certain choices. And it's just-that's something that's pushed me out of fandom, like, as well. Like, racism-there's a lot of, like-unfortunately, there's a lot of internalized misogyny in fandom as well, which sucks. But, like, I'm sorry that that happened 'cause that's fucked. And I don't like it. And I'll punch them. [both laugh]
LaToya: Ah! Fuck Watch?
Morgan: Hell yes! [FUCK WATCH jingle plays] Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing Fuck Watch!
LaToya: You gonna fuck that six-breasted demon? [both laugh]
Morgan: Mmm, you know what? I think I'm gonna go with something-or someone-a little perkier. [laughs] Cordelia. Honey. Tonight's your lucky night. [both laugh] Because I pick you, baby. [laughs] Uh, yeah, it's Cordelia. I love her. She looks gorgeous, she's awesome, and I would-I-I pick her. I respectfully choose her.
LaToya: And you've not picked Cordelia before.
Morgan: I have not.
LaToya: As we all know, in Heartthrob, the premiere, I picked business casual Cordelia. And I was like-I mocked all of you being like, "What about Waiting in the Wings?!" But I am going to choose possessed Angel and possessed Cordy, because they are Stephan and the prima ballerina, so it is actually not them. [Morgan snorts] So, um, suck it. [laughs]
Morgan: This feels like cheating to me, but I-but I don't make the rules. So. [both laugh]
LaToya: I make the rules, baby! [both laugh]
Kristin: I pick Ghost Dennis and his loofah. [laughter]
Morgan: Hell yes, Kristin.
Kristin: Also, I just wanna say that there is absolutely no way that not shipping Gunn and Fred is anything but racism. Because…[LaToya laughs] they are so clearly so hot and fuck Wesley, and I love you, Wesley. But like, sorry, bud. That's all. That's all I have to say. I pick the ghost and the loofah and you're racist if you don't think that Gunn and Fred belong together. Thank you, goodbye. [laughter] [FUCK WATCH jingle plays] Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing Fuck Watch!
Morgan: Um, yeah, wow. A great Fuck Watch. But now that we've done a little bit of a Fuck Watch, might it be time for another segment? [DUBBA-DUBBA-WB jingle plays] Angel is a vampire Does he even like TV? "I think he'll like The WB." They got that hot teen drama To ease the pain and trauma And here's the episode that he Needs to see (aw yeah!)
LaToya: Ahh, so. You know, we have Team Angel. They're stepping out.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And I'm like, should I think about shows on The WB where they go to the ballet or the opera? No. I should think about an episode where they-they're also stepping out, but to see something a little more modern. I know Gunn couldn't see Mahta Hari.
Morgan: Mmhmm?
LaToya: But you know what, the Dawson's Creek crew, they saw No Doubt. [Morgan laughs] In Season 6, Episode 8, Spiderwebs. Yes, they named it after the No Doubt song, Spiderwebs.
Morgan: Spiderwebs slaps.
LaToya: [simultaneously] Sorry, I'm not home right now. I'm watching Dawson's Creek.
Morgan: [laughs] So leave a message and you'll call me back. [both laugh] [LaToya claps] [singing] "Sorry I'm not home right now, I'm watching Dawson's Creek."
LaToya: [sings lyrics quietly]
Morgan: [joins in] So good.
LaToya: I would screen my phone calls if Dawson Leery tried to call me. [laughs]
Morgan: [laughing] I would screen my phone calls…
LaToya: That psychopath. [laughs]
Morgan: Fuck yeah. What a pick.
LaToya: And don't worry. It's okay to call Dawson Leery a psychopath because he did try to kill Pacey with a boat that one time. [both laugh] But yeah, they go to see No Doubt. This is a post-Rock Steady situation. Also 2002, like this episode we just watched. And really, the most important part-because you know, we're talking about people being alive when someone's inside of them.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: To which I wrote-once you guys were like, well, hopefully that's a factor. I'm like, well, Jensen Ackles's C.J. is only alive when Busy Phillipp's Audrey is inside of him.
Morgan: Okay! [laughs]
LaToya: And that's a very important part of the episode. Because C.J., who I might hate the most of any character to ever be on Dawson's Creek-
Morgan: Wow.
LaToya: He's got, like, real nice guy vibes.
Morgan: [groans]
LaToya: He spends the whole season rejecting Jen Lindley, played by Michelle Williams, only to go around and fuck Audrey as soon as she breaks up with Pacey. And-because she has-she's-she's a mess. Like, she has her drinking problem-
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And like, she's on the down swing, and he fucks her.
Morgan: Ohh.
LaToya: So now he's all like, we can be a thing. It's like, dude, she's not okay. So he's spending a lot of that whole episode trying to, like, get her to talk to him. It's like, dude, she's about to go to rehab. Like, this is not good. But yeah-
Morgan: Boo, hiss.
LaToya: Angel should watch to see, hey, so the ballet, it didn't go the way you planned. You didn't ask for this, nobody ever does.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: But it could be worse. Because it could be this. It could be Dawson not interacting with any of his friends because the tickets that he has with his actress girlfriend. Played by…I believe it's Bianca Kajlich, who of course is Sheriff MILF on Legacies-
Morgan: Hell yeah.
LaToya: They have the wrong tickets for the wrong date. So they are just stuck outside the venue while everything else is going on. No Doubt singing Magic's in the Makeup. Like, things could be worse.
Morgan: They absolutely could be. And especially in the Buffy and Angel verse, things could be worse. No one died tonight. Let's just chalk it up to a win.
LaToya: I think, like, the worst thing that happens-and it's actually the best because, again, C.J. is a terrible character-is that Pacey punches C.J., as he should.
Morgan: Yeah. Always happy to hear you talk Creek, baby. [laughs]
LaToya: Oh, what a night indeed. Hit the music.
Morgan: Oh, what a night. [giggles] [DUBBA-DUBBA-WB jingle plays] Angel is a vampire Does he even like TV? "I think he'll like The WB." They got that hot teen drama To ease the pain and trauma And here's the episode that he Needs to see (aw yeah!)
Morgan: What an ep. [both laugh]
LaToya: [singing] "Oh, what an ep! Doo-doo-doo! Late April in 2021! Vitamin C, what have you done?"
Morgan: [laughs] I'm so happy. [LaToya laughs] Never stop singing this.
LaToya: [laughing] Wrap it up, please.
Morgan: So. Should you be interested, you can follow us on social media, @AngelOnTopCast, on both Twitter and Instagram. From there, you can go to angelontop.com, where you can find our Patreon! We're doing fun stuff over there, including releasing some jingles.
LaToya: J-j-j-jingles.
Morgan: We recently dropped our Cynthia jingle, which I fucking love and I wrote a lot of copy about Cynthia and how much I love the idea of having a teen at the Hyperion. We will be releasing the Gunn jingle there.
LaToya: [simultaneously] You'll never regret saying that. [laughs]
Morgan: Never. Never, ever, ever. [laughs] And we will be doing-we'll be doing Girls on Film there, which we should already have Down with Love and Legally Blond episodes out. So lots of fun stuff that you can check out there. And LaToya, where can the people find you?
LaToya: Nowhere. [both laugh]
Morgan: LaToya's missing.
LaToya: @lafergs, but also, don't tweet at me [laughing] because no one ever gets my bits!
Morgan: Yeah, please have a solid, like, knowledge of comedy before you…before you reply to anything LaToya tweets. And you can find me anywhere, @LorganMutich, on most platforms. So-and you can listen to us both on The AMPire Diaries, which is our Vampire Diaries podcast, if you so choose. Also, should it-if you have been interested in maybe getting into either The Vampire Diaries or The AMPire Diaries, towards the end of this month, in late May, we will be doing a live table read of The Vampire Diaries pilot. It should be incredibly silly. And you might know the two people we cast to play Stefan and Damon? Just two chicks named Kristin and Jenny? I don't know, like, they might be good, I think. Do you think it'll be good, LaToya?
LaToya: No. [both laugh]
Morgan: But we'll do our best. So, um-
LaToya: I hear they have a black Caroline Forbes. What's up with that? [both laugh]
Morgan: [laughing] I heard it's a groundbreaking decision. [both laugh] I heard their Jeremy and Elena are dating. [both laugh] And with that, we will hang out with you next time. LA's buzzing about the ballet. [LaToya snorts] [Angel On Top theme plays]