Angel On Top
Episode 3.01: Heartthrob
NOTES: [CHIME]
LaToya: Welcome back to Angel on Top, a podcast where we watch and discuss every episode of Angel, one by one, spoiler free, and in tandem with Buffering the Vampire Slayer. I'm your host, LaToya Ferguson. And if you are a long-time listener of Angel on Top, that is definitely a new situation. Moving forward, for Season 3 and hopefully beyond, I will be filling the enormous shoes-just huge shoes-of Brittany and Laura. Their shoes are just… so large. It's gonna be a little different. I will have a revolving door of guest hosts with me to help me not talk by myself, because as you can hear, when I have to talk by myself, it's very awkward and I start going on about shoes. Looking forward to going on this wild adventure with all of you listeners to Angel on Top. And this wild adventure of Angel Season 3, which, uh… just by my estimation, it pretty much slaps. It rips. It bangs. Possibly bops. And that's just what you can expect from me, the kind of analysis of television you can expect from me, a professional television critic. This week, we're watching the Angel Season 3 premiere, Heartthrob, which was written and directed by Angel showrunner David Greenwalt. It aired on The WB on September 24, 2001, one week before the Buffy Season 6 premiere, Bargaining, on UPN. This is the one where Angel has to deal with a network change-err… death of Buffy and is faced with his past once more in the form of a proto Spike and Drusilla situation.
NOTES: [Angel on Top theme plays]
LaToya: I am here today with a couple of voices you may know. Kristin Russo, Jenny Owen Youngs, of Buffering the Vampire Slayer.
Kristin: Whaaaat!
Jenny: Hello, my friends.
Kristin: Hello! How did we get here? What? What's happening?
LaToya: I do wonder at this point if they can hear the sheer terror in my voice.
NOTES: [Kristin laughs]
Jenny: No, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Kristin: No-
Jenny: Seasoned professional?
Kristin: LaToya, it's a big day. It's a big day. And I want you to know that in the intro to the first ever episode that you are anchoring here, you've already taught me something. You didn't even mean to, and I did-I had no idea that Angel aired a week before Buffy. None.
LaToya: It did.
Kristin: I had no clue.
LaToya: I was doing the research, basically, to kind of figure out why that was. Obviously, not the same network. Angel was on Monday and then Buffy was on Tuesday, so that actually kind of works in tandem. But again, these networks were not working in tandem. These networks were being very petty. And we'll talk more about that. [laughter] So from what I could tell, it seems that it links up in a way with the timing of these episodes, so a certain plot point in both of them can happen.
Kristin: Exactly.
LaToya: It can be confluent.
Kristin: I also thought-'cause when I watched this episode today, in preparation for this, the debut of Season 3 of Angel on Top, I was thinking, well, this is a bit of like, a bummer. Because you already know that Buffy's not dead if you've watched Bargaining. So the whole, like, through line of Angel grieving the loss of Buffy would be not as powerful. So I guess it would have had a day, but it having a whole week is also kind of intense for the fandom at the time.
LaToya: Right now, Buffy is still very much dead. [laughter] They're treating her as such. She's dead to the WB, which means her name is not mentioned. [Jenny laughs] She is "Buh-" or "the B Word." [laughter] And just when you thought that the networks couldn't get more petty in this whole "Buffy's no longer on The WB" thing, they do. Jenny, what did you think about that?
Jenny: You know… I think it's funny. I think-there's so much at play here. Like, do you know something we don't know about why The WB did not renew Buffy but did renew Angel?
Kristin: Was it the patriarchy?
Jenny: Was it people wanting more money?
LaToya: I don't think it was the-
Kristin: Same.
LaToya: I think it was not the patriarchy, but it was Sarah specifically wanting more money. Because I know that when Angel gets cancelled, it's for similarly dumb reasons. It's for even more dumb reasons, and we'll get there eventually. The WB and decision-making, for a network I love greatly, not always great. [laughs] I will say. And it is kind of a one-sided pettiness in a way, because UPN will allow Buffy to say the name "Angel." I will say that. As much as they're not allowing the B-word to be said on Angel. [Jenny laughs] But I think-if we pretend that The WB isn't the one who mandated this, I think it's also a good choice for Angel the show, just to finally-it's standing on its own.
Jenny: Yeah.
LaToya: And I think a lot of Season 3, it will allow that to be shown. And it is ridiculous, the lengths they go to not say the B-word. But you know what? How about this, we're not saying the B-word until they do on Angel on Top now.
Kristin: [laughing] Hell yeah!
Jenny: Ha! [laughter]
Kristin: Oh my god, I love this-I love this rule. I would like to also point out something that I've realized in this conversation about Angel and Buffy-oh! [laughter] About Angel and the B-word starting on the same network and then splitting here. It's kind of ironic that Angel on Top and Buffering the Vampire Slayer were on two separate feeds until the moment they split networks. And now we've come together! That seems powerful. [laughs]
LaToya: We basically decided we're forming The CW early. [Kristin laughs]
Jenny: Yes!
LaToya: That's what would happen.
Jenny: [chanting] Horny teens! Horny teens! [laughter]
Kristin: I wanna know, in pod feed, how you're feeling, you know? Like, we're just here. You're here, you're anchoring a podcast about Angel, a show that you love, for the first time, in this space. Like, how are you doing? What can we get-do you need anything? [laughs]
LaToya: I just need to talk about Angel.
Kristin: Great.
LaToya: Angel Season 3, my first ever season of Angel. So, you know, near and dear to my heart.
Kristin: This is where you began your watch?
LaToya: This is where I began my watch. Like, a few episodes-
Jenny: Wow.
LaToya: Into Season 3, yeah.
Kristin: This is just meant to be-it's just meant to be. You know? It's just-the cosmos are aligning. The buttons on Angel's shirt are slowly popping off, one by one.
Jenny: Mm!
Kristin: All things are coming together.
LaToya: I mean, we can talk about Angel's shirts. Season 3 spawns a glorious time of Angel. He's wearing light blues. He's wearing some color now. It's not just straight black. And you know what? It's good to me.
Kristin: Mmhmm. I'm here for it! Do you-
Jenny: It is good. I think it's an interesting choice to have him in like, all white and then a khaki overshirt and then a blue button-up, right after the love of his life has died.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Interesting choice to bring color in. Episode 1.
LaToya: Angel-Angel is thriving. He's 30 and flirty and thriving. [Kristin laughs] He's on his own, in the big city. [Kristin laughs] His best girl's got a bob now, we love to see it.
Kristin: Oh my god! Don't even get m e started on Cordelia. Don't even get me started. Cordelia-
LaToya: Let's get you started on Cordelia, please.
NOTES: [CORDELIA jingle plays] Cordelia! I love you Cordelia! You're perfect Cordelia! Ah-ahh!
Kristin: Cordelia in this fucking-in this season, but in this episode, is-I just can't. First of all, her fucking hair. She looks phenomenal. Second of all, one of the first things that she does is she puts on a necklace and is like, "so what do you think about how this brings out my breasts?" And is like, you were all thinking it, and I love her. And third of all, she's like, the fucking voice of reason in this whole episode. Ughh! I love her.
LaToya: She is. She is-Angel may have a soul, but she is Angel's heart, basically.
Kristin: [gasps] Aw! Ah!
Jenny: Awww! My god! [laughs]
Kristin: LaToya, you can't just go and do that in the middle of a recording, like. [laughter] Fuck.
LaToya: I will do that-I will be doing that a lot this season.
Kristin: Ugh!
LaToya: I am sorry. She is the only one who knows Angel well enough to know, he may look great-the fact that Angel was smiling-
Kristin: Yes.
LaToya: And content should tell them something is wrong.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah-
Kristin: And wearing color! And kind of-yeah-
Jenny: Set off those alarms.
LaToya: It's not even like, a moment of true happiness, content. It's just like, a still being. Which is-it's not Angel. He's not brooding, so they should be worried. [Kristin laughs] But they're like, we got cool stuff!
Kristin: Jenny, you look very upset by something that I posited and I would love to know what it is.
Jenny: No, no, no, no. I just have a question with regard to one of Cordelia's looks in this episode. Right at the top, they're coming back from killing a bunch of demons. And I'm wondering if anyone can confirm or definitively deny whether Cordelia is wearing pajama pants? Whether Cordelia wore pajama pants-
Kristin: Mm-mm.
Jenny: To the slay.
Kristin: No. It's 2000-first of all-
Jenny: They're so flowy.
Kristin: How dare you? [laughs] And second of all-[laughs] no! Cordelia wasn't wearing pajama pants. It's probably just 2001-type style pants. I don't remember what they were, but.
Jenny: Hmmm.
Kristin: I would have noticed if they were pajama pants.
LaToya: I would hope they were paj-overalls but they are not, so.
Kristin: Oh… my…
Jenny: I'm sorry, "paj-overalls"?
LaToya: Oh, have you not heard about-
Jenny: Pajama… overalls.
LaToya: Yeah.
Jenny: Pajama overalls?
LaToya: Paj-overalls. [Kristin laughs]
Jenny: You'll have to excuse me. I need to go make a purchase. [laughter] I'll be right back.
LaToya: So, yes. We begin our episode three months after the events of No Place Like Plrtz Glrb.
Kristin: I was really hoping that I would go without having to say it. So far, I haven't had to say it. So thank you.
LaToya: Well, now you can say it. Go ahead, Kristin.
Kristin: No! Place. Like.
Jenny: [chanting] Kristin! Kristin!
Kristin: Plrz Scrb. [LaToya laughs] Plrz Scrb? Plrz Scrb?
LaToya: Plrtz.
Kristin: Plrtz.
LaToya: It starts with a P.
Kristin: Plrtz.
LaToya: Glrb.
Kristin: Glrb.
LaToya: Yeah.
Kristin: Plrtz Glrb.
LaToya: There you go!
Jenny: Plrtz Glrb.
Kristin: Yeah, Cordelia was a queen. For like, a minute. And they-I like how they bring that into the conversation, where she's like, I just really wish I could go back to Pylea. And Angel's like, well-or Wesley? Somebody is like, well, you wanna go back 'cause you were a queen. Meanwhile, Fred, who can't even leave her room, was like, kept as a servant for, you know, five years against her will.
LaToya: Yeah. It's, uh… different perspectives, for sure. Yeah. So they're dirty, they're dingy. Oh yeah, we're obsessed with demons, our lives are sad. [laughter] We're alone forever. And I guess I've never felt more seen by the cast of Angel [Jenny laughs] until this moment.
Kristin: [laughs] Oh no. It is kind of calling all of us out too, isn't it? We're like-[laughs]
LaToya: Yeah.
Jenny: Yeah…
LaToya: They're like, you fucking nerds! [Kristin laughs] This is you! Look at yourself! [Jenny laughs]
Kristin: I think that-I think that they did such a good job in this episode. Like, I didn't really-it didn't hit me until I rewatched it again today. But they do such a good job of making you feel the, like, family-ness of them? Like, I feel like-
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: One of the central purposes of this episode is to let you know that they're no longer just like, coworkers. Like, they really are intimately involved with each other, they're committed to each other, they are each other's family. And I feel like they do a really good job with it.
LaToya: Yeah, one thing I really love that's just understated in this episode is the fact that they all take turns doing chores in the Hyperion. Like, for the upkeep?
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Yeah, I-
Kristin: Also that Wesley is trimming the plant with, like, a tiny scythe. I don't know what weapon is called. [laughter] But I love it. I want one for my plants, when I trim them. [laughs]
Jenny: I like that Wesley's trimming the plants but has not had a hair trim in a while. His-he's got, like, quarantine hair but it, like, is really suiting him. It has not gotten to the point where it's like, oh no, danger, danger. [Kristin laughs]
LaToya: That Season 3 hair, baby!
Jenny: Just looks kind of like, rugged.
LaToya: He's been killing demons for three months without Angel. This is what happens. [Jenny laughs]
Kristin: Do you think that Angel should have gone to Vegas? Or do you think he made the right choice in going to Sri Lanka?
LaToya: Oh yes, was Vegas a better idea? Yes, because the Sri Lankan monks were demons.
Kristin: But don't you think Vegas is just like, running full clip with demons? Vegas seems like a place where demons would have a good fucking time.
Jenny: Yes. But okay, here's the difference. I feel like people go to Vegas to be demonic. Demons and humans, all go to Vegas to be demonic.
Kristin: Okay.
Jenny: Generally, when you go on, like, a meditation retreat, you're like, not looking for violence. Demons aside, can we talk about Angel's look just in this scene? Because it is good. [laughter] You would think that this, like, beautiful, flowing-
Kristin: Also, just for the listener, I want the listener to know [laughter] that you are wearing a white T-shirt right now, while you're like, Angel in his all-white look looks so good. It's special.
Jenny: No, no, no, no-
Kristin: It's special.
Jenny: This is not about me, this is about-
LaToya: You're like, clasping your heart. [laughter]
Jenny: He just-I want his outfit, is all I'm saying. It's long and flowing, but you know, not-you know, in a way that you're gonna like, trip over it. It's like-it just looks, like, so… light and airy and lovely. And you would think-or I would think-that someone as, like, tall and hulking as David Boreanaz might not be able to, like, pull that ensemble off so well. But it just, like… looks so great on him.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: And that is my contribution. Thank you for listening. I… appreciate it.
NOTES: [Kristin laughs]
LaToya: I mean, this is definitely a good wardrobe season for Boreanaz, I will say. I mean, already coming out the gate, we have drooled enough over his outfits.
NOTES: [laughter]
Jenny: Yes. David Boreanaz, wearing a stunning ensemble, defeats the demon monks. And then he comes outside. And in a tongue that is not English and is also not English with a really bad Irish accent, [laughter] David Boreanaz says, you know, ugh, demon monks, I should have gone to Vegas. So. David Boreanaz is in Sri Lanka.
Kristin: Well-
Jenny: In Sri Lanka-
Kristin: Angel, but sure. [laughter]
Jenny: Oh, sorry. Angel is in-
LaToya: No, they flew him on location to Sri Lanka. [laughter] They spent that money, those millions of dollars.
Jenny: Of course. Money well spent. [laughter] Angel's in Sri Lanka. In Sri Lanka, they speak Sinhala, Tamil, English. There's a handful of the 3400-ish people of Portuguese descent who speak Sri Lankan Portuguese Creole. There's a Muslim community in Sri Lanka that uses Arabic. And seldom used nowadays is Arwi, a written register of Tamil that uses the Arabic script and has extensive lexical influences from Arabic. My question, with all of that setup, is what language is David Boreanaz speaking? And… listeners, I know somebody knows what the language is.
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: And also, whether it sounds as bad as when David Boreanaz does [laughter] an English accent-or an Irish accent, or not. Please let us know. Unless, LaToya, you already know, which would not shock me in the least.
LaToya: No, no, no, no, no. So on Hulu, it just says "foreign language." [laughter]
Kristin: [sarcastically, laughing] Yeah, Hulu's real good at that shit.
Jenny: [laughing] Oh, Jesus.
LaToya: And in, like-on the fandom Wiki for this episode, in the transcript, it says "Tibetan." Which is definitely-they-it's not a Tibetan monastery. So no. [laughter] So I guess the answer is "foreign language."
Kristin: Yeah, yeah, yeah, final answer.
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: Oh, somebody will definitely let us know.
Jenny: Beautiful linguistically inclined and informed listeners, if you have this hot, hot intel we so desperately crave, please write in. Angelontoppodcast@gmail.com. Thank you.
LaToya: I do have one more discussion point before we move from the Sri Lankan foreign language scene.
Kristin: Yeah.
LaToya: Which is that-so I noted-before, in talking to you-I don't even know if it made it onto an episode-that Season 3 introduced, like, the wire fu to the fight choreography for Angel. So there's a lot of that.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Mmm.
LaToya: You see it here. Because we're living now in a post-Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon world.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
LaToya: 'Cause it just, like-just earlier, the Oscars happened and it got the award. So we're there, we're looking good. I actually-I really like that style for Angel. And I kind of like when a supernatural spinoff has, like, different fighting styles than the original show.
Kristin: Yeah.
LaToya: So I really enjoy that. But I do wonder-it's something I always kind of wonder-is where does Angel's, I guess, Asian influence as a fighter come from?
Kristin: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Like, when did he start doing tai chi? He wasn't doing it as Angelus. You know? And obviously, every vampire, when they become a new vampire, like, they get instant basic martial arts training. But like-[Jenny laughs]
Kristin: Oh my god! LaToya, I can't believe you brought-
Jenny: We were just talking about this.
Kristin: We literally just talked about this in our season premiere episode. We said, in-episode, we have to ask LaToya what she thinks about how vampires get sired and immediately know a lot of wrestling moves. [laughter]
LaToya: I am fine with this. It just at least gives them a little bit of a fair fight against the Slayer. They're still going to lose, but it gives them something. They need something, otherwise, there'd be a lot of-there'd be a lot more bottom feeders in the vampire world if they didn't get that, you know?
Kristin: Mmm.
LaToya: Give them something. [laughs]
Kristin: But yeah, I guess-I mean, I guess like, to your point-well, what does Angelus-because Angelus had to retain-some of what Angelus experienced has to be retained in Angel. And his-like, what he's interested in and what he practices, right? Because it's not like Angel-Angel is doing tai chi in the B-word show that we cannot name here, seasons and seasons ago. Like, that was a long time ago. But where is the root?
LaToya: Obviously we know that Angel and Darla-they went all over the world and, you know-but I don't think they were really soaking up the culture as much. Like, they were just eating people and-
Jenny: Yeah.
LaToya: Living in the lap of luxury. But I don't think Angelus was really just taking notes and absorbing culture that way and taking tai chi classes. So. [Kristin laughs]
Jenny: Yeah. Tai chi definitely-I picture, like, maybe 20 years after-hmm. When do we see Angel-
Kristin: But he's had a soul-
Jenny: Eating rats in New York?
LaToya: Yeah. I can imagine-
Kristin: Yeah.
LaToya: Angel doing tai chi as something kinda just to calm him and center himself.
Jenny: A coping.
Kristin: Right.
LaToya: It seems like something so ingrained in him as Angel, so-but I guess we're supposed to believe he just started doing it on Buffy and it's been part of his thing ever since.
Kristin: Well-but also, right. Where-so Angel got a soul a long fucking time ago. Right? Like, he-like, what's to say-I know that he ate rats in, like New York-or I don't know. Where did he eat rats? I just assume it was in New York, because-
Jenny: New York.
Kristin: It is New York?
Jenny: Oh yeah.
Kristin: Okay. Good.
Jenny: That's where you eat rats. For sure.
Kristin: Right-
LaToya: I mean, he ate rats all over the world. [laughter] But New York specifically-
Jenny: Yes. Yeah, but we saw him specifically-
Kristin: Global palate for rats.
Jenny: Eating rats in New York with Whistler, right?
Kristin: Yeah.
LaToya: Yeah.
Kristin: But it-there should be time in the timeline for him to have spent some of his rat-eating days in other countries [laughing] across the globe, right?
LaToya: It's like, did he learn tai chi during the Boxer Rebellion? Is that something that is missing from Fool For Love/Darla? 'Cause-
Kristin: 'Cause he has his soul in that-at that moment.
LaToya: Yeah.
Kristin: Yeah.
LaToya: But he's still, like, a mess. And he's still-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: But maybe that's his turning point. [laughter]
LaToya: He's sneaking tai chi lessons when Darla's away. [laughter]
Kristin: Just a little rat-just a little rat lunch with a side of a tai chi course, is what Angel is doing.
Jenny: Or hey, a little Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles crossover. [Kristin gasps] Learning tai chi from the rat. [LaToya laughs] Before eating the rat.
LaToya: Oh no!
Kristin: Whoa.
Jenny: Just a thought.
Kristin: Oh! RIP-what's the rat's name?
Jenny and LaToya: Splinter.
Kristin: Splinter! Ohh. Such a horrible crossover! [laughs]
Jenny: Sorry.
LaToya: Wow.
Kristin: Anyway. I heard that we were talking about Angel, but I'm very excited about where we just got to. [laughs]
LaToya: Angel Season 3, The Secret of the Ooze. [laughter] I do like it as a fight style for Angel. But you know, I would like to fill in that blank.
Kristin: Mmhmm. Whatever, I know that I'm all macro over here, but I've just been thinking a lot about the way that the episode positions love. Like, I mean, it's called Heartthrob. And there's like, four-as I noted them, there's four pairings, right? There's Angel and Buff-mm. [laughter] Angel and [laughs] Darla. There's what's-his-face-James and Elizabeth. And then there's the, like, college couple in the car. Which I feel like-
LaToya: Oh, those losers.
Kristin: Yeah. And I-but I feel like they're so there for a reason, of like, what are we-like, what are we looking at as, like, love? What does Angel feel like he's lost with the death of his true love? And like, what's the difference between what he has with Darla-there's like-that's the whole through line, right?
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Of like, looking at-
LaToya: Yes.
Kristin: Those couples.
LaToya: As Haddaway would ask, what is love? [laughter]
Kristin: Dude, I literally just bought that song to put it in a podcast. [LaToya laughs] So-I think it was the mailbag that we literally just put that song in.
LaToya: You did, yes. [laughter] You spent money? Congrats.
Kristin: Oh, no actually, I didn't. I illegally downloaded it.
NOTES: ["What Is Love" by Haddaway starts playing in background]
LaToya: Oh, yeah. I mean, I already had it illegally downloaded, so you could have just asked me. [laughter]
NOTES: ["What Is Love" continues playing] What is love Baby, don't hurt me Don't hurt me No more
NOTES: [song stops]
LaToya: Yeah. So in these three months, also, Fred has found a room in the Hyperion. And she has not left that room.
Kristin: Yeah.
LaToya: She has been holed up for three months. So of course, I love Angel Investigations. I feel like they could be a bit more sensitive to Fred.
Kristin: Oh, yeah.
LaToya: Uh…
Jenny: Uh-huh.
LaToya: Cordy makes a good point that Fred is trading one cave for another.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
LaToya: But then she says that basically, what Fred is doing is the opposite of strong. Because I think Cordelia has, like, a very specific view of quote-on-quote "strong" is.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
LaToya: It's the opposite of being a cry-Buffy, we know.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
LaToya: It's-[laughs]
Jenny: [laughs] A cry-what was that? What word was that?
LaToya: Cry B-word. She's not a cry B-word. [laughter] So-and it's also kind of sucking up your trauma and moving on. Which is… not good.
Kristin: Yeah.
LaToya: But that is something Cordelia has learned to deal with.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Yeah.
LaToya: And is dealing with in this episode, from the pain of her visions. So to her, that's what strength is. Which… we get-Cordy. Talk to someone, girl. [laughs] We love you.
Kristin: I know. Well, they should all be-I mean, I feel like this season of both-both shows is-really begs the question, why do we not have therapy here? Why is nobody talking to anybody about all of these traumas? Like, I understand that 2001 was a different landscape than 2020. I get it. I get that-I get the trope of like, the Cordelia person who is like, the way a woman is strong is like, burying it all and blasting through the next thing. But you know, you have a girl upstairs who hasn't come out of her room in months. Like, she probably needs some fucking help, you guys. [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah, it's-therapy, much like cell phones, is the enemy of storytelling, [laughter] supposedly. Cell phones really are the enemy of storytelling. Whereas therapy, it's helpful and you know, everyone should just get therapy.
Kristin: Yes.
LaToya: I mean, at this point, The Sopranos had premiered in 1999.
Kristin: Oh.
LaToya: So I'm sure lots of TV shows were like, we're gonna do therapy now too! But Angel didn't get on that tip, obviously. Riverdale, historically a show where all the children needed therapy, and I would constantly write that in my reviews. And then I stopped reviewing it, and then Gina Torres showed up as their therapist, as though the show was attacking me personally [Kristin laughs] for quitting writing about it. But that's neither here nor there. [laughter]
Kristin: But yeah, Fred-what is the actress's name who plays Fred?
LaToya: Amy Acker.
Jenny: Amy Acker.
Kristin: Amy Acker. I couldn't think of it today. I-she's-I think she's fucking phenomenal. I mean, her performance in this ep-I mean, in the episodes we saw in Season 2, as well. But particularly how she shows up in this scene, where we see her in the room. And then how she shows up with Angel once he returns. She just does a really brilliant job.
Jenny: The only thing-as someone who loves Fred-the only thing that I don't like about Amy Acker in this episode is her… southern? Accent?
Kristin: Mmm. Well, it's-I mean, if you're gonna compare accents in the show, she does a stunning job. [laughter]
Jenny: Well, here's the thing. Here's what LaToya taught me, Kristin. Amy Acker is actually from the south-
LaToya: I mean, okay, so she actually is from the south. She is from… yeah, she is from Texas and this is a Texan accent, so.
Kristin: Mmhmm. So what's your-
Jenny: [high pitched] Is it though?
Kristin: What is your issue with the accent? You don't think it sounds accurate? You, Jenny Owen Youngs, having spent so much time in Texas? [laughs]
Jenny: I have spent a bit of time in Texas. I guess, uh, Texas is so enormous, it could house nearly infinite-
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Variations on accents. It just feels a little… it just feels a little, like, over the top. But you know. That could-that's just probably my naive-
Kristin: I feel like-and I-I mean, please, any Texans write in and correct all of us. But you know, I feel like-
Jenny: Please.
Kristin: Amy Acker, the actress, is making the choice to combine probably what she knows of her own southern accent with this, like, mousiness that she's bringing to Fred.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: And so that probably, like, tweaks with how the accent shows up. 'Cause there is that like, little edge of like-not a Southern Bell sound to it. But like, that-I don't know, that politeness lilt to the southern accent that she does. So I don't know what I'm talking about-
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: I can't believe I just used the word "lilt." Somebody shut me up. [laughter]
LaToya: No, keep going. Now I wanna know what else you have to say. [laughter] "Lilt." The other thing that they're just kind of ignoring in Fred's behavior is that-so she's here. She's saved by Angel, she's back on Earth. She's… with Team Angel. And then Angel immediately has to leave for three months, to mourn the B-word.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Basically, her support system is immediately gone and none of them are stepping up to the plate to help her-
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Yeah.
LaToya: They either clearly didn't have the patience or they just are like, this Angel's responsibility, pretty much.
Kristin: Yeah. It's-it's surprising. I mean, I understand that like, Cordelia has some selfish, you know, streaks in her. And maybe she's focusing on the wrong elements of strength. But like, I could see Wesley maybe not recognizing that there's an issue. But Gunn and Cordelia both are characters that I feel like would have recognized that Fred needed a little help. And would have like, gotten that for her in some way.
LaToya: Yeah.
Jenny: Also, like, what else do they have to do? Like, they spend all of their time together. We-with the exception of like, Cordelia hanging out with Harmony and Wesley briefly dating Victoria. They don't have-
LaToya: Virginia.
Jenny: Oh, sorry. [laughter] Wesley briefly dating Virginia. Gunn has other friends, but do Cordelia and Wesley? Now that-
LaToya: I mean… Gunn has other friends, but is he seeing them? Because he definitely wasn't at the end of Season 2, and that got-
Jenny: Mmhmm.
LaToya: One of them killed.
Kristin: Mmm. Mm.
Jenny: Mmhmm!
Kristin: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And I doubt Gunn wants to show his face after that, honestly.
Kristin: Yeah, yeah.
Jenny: So they've all got loads of time and a shortage of excuses-
LaToya: Yeah.
Jenny: With regard to taking care of Fred. For the three months that Angel is gone.
Kristin: Oh my god, it's like, Fred and Faith should have a hang and talk about the neglect [Jenny gasps] faced by both, you know? [laughter] They would get along. I think they would get quite along, as a matter of fact. Oh no-
Jenny: Oh no, I hope they don't accidentally kiss.
Kristin: Oh no! [laughter] What just happened? [laughs]
Jenny: [singing] Doo-doo-doo!
LaToya: This is where I, again, plug the series Person of Interest. And I wanna say, in a lot of ways, Sarah Shahi's character is like Faith. So you have Sarah Shahi and Amy Acker, the OTP of that show. That's canon. So…
Kristin: Wow.
LaToya: Yeah. [Jenny laughs]
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: Now that is a canonical pairing… [laughter] one could-yes. Carry on. [laughter] I'll be-excuse me, this is the sound of me writing the fanfic. [makes typing noise]
LaToya: Oh, there's already plenty of fanfic. [laughter]
Jenny: Naturally.
LaToya: [laughs] I do plan to make this podcast 100% more horny. So… [laughter] there-
Kristin: Which is, like, a tall order.
Jenny: Speaking of horny! We glossed over something very important, when Angel was distributing his gifts to his friends upon his return. Angel gives Gunn a small human head.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: And as Angel is leaving the room, Gunn says, "Thanks for the head, bro!" [Kristin laughs] 1080P HD?
Kristin: I did-I did notice that.
Jenny: Two men, working together, the heat of battle. You know, sometimes slaying makes you horny and hungry, is what I have heard from reliable sources.
Kristin: Uh-huh.
LaToya: I mean, between that and Gunn saying "doing it with the demons." [laughter] What an episode for Charles Gunn. [laughter] And so, because none of his friends are useful, Angel finally returns. [Jenny laughs] And makes Fred feel a little bit better. And-
Jenny: Ugh!
LaToya: I will-I said it in No Place Like Plrtz Glrb, but I'll say it again. I understand extremely why Fred is so smitten with Angel. He's just-to her-like, every scene they have, he is like, perfect hero guy, basically.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
LaToya: The care and understanding he has when he is with her in their scene? Is something she didn't have for three months, basically.
Kristin: Mmhmm. Yeah. Plus, he's a hunk. You know, you gotta give it to the guy.
NOTES: [laughter]
Jenny: Plus, he's a hunk.
LaToya: He's wearing that blue button-up.
Jenny: But he's emotionally unavailable and does not have the self awareness to not push her glasses up in a very… like, sort of slippery-slope-to-romantic kind of way.
Kristin: Yeah. Angel just like-he doesn't understand the line between taking care of somebody and…
Jenny: And like, taking care of somebody.
Kristin: Yep! [laughter] There it is! [laughs]
LaToya: Goddamnit. So he's… taking care of her. [Kristin laughs] And just being sweet and understanding. Because I feel like… this is kind of like what Angel was like when he was on the streets of New York, in a way. Only he was not confined to a certain space. Like, he understands Fred, the way he understood Faith, basically. And…
Kristin: Mmhmm. Mmhmm, yeah.
Jenny: Mmm.
LaToya: That would have been great for her to have for the past three months, basically.
Kristin: Right, right.
Jenny: Ugh, yeah.
Kristin: God, and then she gets like, a half-second of it. And I feel like-the hotel is under attack. And then she gets like, another half-second later, and he's like, get back to your fucking room! [laughs]
LaToya: Fred does say something in, you know, her ramblings to Angel about how she's waiting for the click, where it all makes sense. And that honestly-that breaks my heart. [laughs]
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Mm!
LaToya: That is an understandable feeling. Which I feel-again, this is why I'm like, why weren't you guys just there for her? Because I feel like that's something they could have gotten, even if they didn't get a lot of her other ramblings. You know?
Kristin: Absolutely. Like, she-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: I mean, I feel like, as a character or at least what we know of her so far, she is somebody who logically understands her feelings and her, like, emotional place. And that doesn't, of course-I mean, understanding where you are logically does not remedy where you are emotionally. But like, she definitely has the tools to explain in clear enough terms that she's not okay and that all of the behavior that she's exhibiting is a means of either trying to escape feeling not okay or to fix not feeling okay. She-you know, she communicates it in an instant to Angel.
LaToya: Mmhmm. Yeah. Although, you know, when the click finally happens, like, that's not gonna be a good moment either.
Kristin: No.
Jenny: Ugh!
LaToya: Because then reality really sets in.
Kristin: Yeah.
LaToya: And then you have to reckon with all these things you should talk to your therapist about. [Jenny sighs]
Kristin: Yes! Get a fucking-you need a demon-sensitive therapist. I understand they're harder to find. But like, figure it out, guys!
LaToya: I mean, Lorne definitely has to know one. Or just talk to Lorne.
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: Talk-I was just gonna say actually, Lorne is the therapist. Lorne would be a fantastic therapist.
LaToya: Yeah.
Kristin: Poor Lorne. I feel like this is-
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Always Lorne's, like, task. People come to him and they're like, please fix me, Lorne. [laughter]
LaToya: And then he does!
Kristin: And then he does.
LaToya: Let's talk about Cordy's painful vision. It's getting worse, you guys. These visions are killing her, she literally says.
Jenny: But like, they also have gotten this, like, Mapquest upgrade? Or like… okay, she used to just get flashes of monsters in an alley. And now it's like, Wilson Hall- or Wilson College, Bonner Hall, Room 918. Everything is just like, within the frame of her vision.
LaToya: Yeah.
Kristin: But I don't-
Jenny: Do you think there's any correlation between the specificity that is seeming to like, increase and the pain that is seeming to increase?
LaToya: Yeah. It's like, she's getting more powerful, the visions are getting more vivid. But with that is the price-these visions are now killing her. And you know what?
Jenny: Yeah.
LaToya: You should write that all in your Shanshu Prophecies, everyone.
Kristin: Ugh, god.
Jenny: Noted. Noted, lemme just update my-
Kristin: She's really good-
LaToya: That's the terminology I'm using, by the way. Write that in your Shanshu Prophecies. [laughter]
Kristin: I think Charisma Carpenter, too-like, this reminded me of-I can't remember what the episode was. It was an episode of Angel and the episode-in the episode, she had to take on sort of all of the visions at once. So she was like, feeling all the pain in the world.
LaToya: Yes, that is the Season 1 finale, To Shanshu In L.A.
Kristin: Oh!
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Must have been-must have been you saying "Shanshu" that just, like, rung a bell for me in my brain. But I think she does such a great job as an actor, taking us from Cordelia-'cause Cordelia has, like, a very specific presence. And so there's something about the journey from her specific place to when she is sobbing on the floor. Or like, you know-even in the B-word show. When, you know, she's impaled and she's in the hospital. Like, the fall for her from her center strength to devastation is one that, like, personally, kills me. Destroys me.
Jenny: Let this be a warning to college students making party flyers.
LaToya: Don't do it.
Jenny: Never print, "everyone invited!" Never print "everyone invited!" Because that includes vampires, apparently!
Kristin: I love that little tiny thing. [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah. We should also talk about Fred and her-because the room in the Hyperion is her home. That's why Angel has to be invited in, despite, you know, this being his hotel.
Kristin: Right, right.
LaToya: I mean, he owns it, but with like, forged files. So. [laughs]
Kristin: Yeah. She's written on those walls quite enough for it to become her established and protected home. [laughs]
Jenny: How many fucking rooms are in this hotel and what are they doing with the rest of them?
LaToya: There's a lot and they're not doing a lot. [laughs]
Kristin: They're probably full of little-speaking of rats. They're probably-there's probably some mice up in there, at the very least.
LaToya: But yeah, things aren't going great for Cordelia. But luckily, she has the best roommate ever. Which made me think, oh, are roommates actually good?
NOTES: [laughs]
Kristin: Ghost Dennis-I think I've said it inside of Angel On Top before. I've probably even said it inside of Buffering before. But like, Ghost Dennis is my favorite character… in, like, the universe. [LaToya laughs] I love him! So deeply. This-this scene with them is a little interesting. It really takes their, like, bond to a new level, of like, he's loofah'ing her back for her?
Jenny: Listen! I don't-I hope I'm not like, showing my ass about like, how naive I am about loofahs. [Kristin laughs] But is the way that you would wanna use that just taking it off the shelf, dry, and applying it to dry… skin? [laughter] Is that… is that what you do?
Kristin: I'm just-I'm done now. I quit. I quit the podcast.
LaToya: I also don't think Dennis put enough pressure on that to really do anything.
Kristin: It's true. It's-
Jenny: How much pressure can a ghost apply? And how consistently?
Kristin: Well, I mean, if we're to follow the Patrick Swayze ghost, um, you know, mythos, then it-you train over time. And you develop more skills. [laughs]
Jenny: Right. Right, right, right, right.
Kristin: And Ghost Dennis has been around for a while. He does a pretty good job with the loofah. But I think-I don't, myself, use a loofah. But I would imagine you'd wanna get it wet first.
Jenny: Right? [laughs]
Kristin: Uh… asking all of the hard-hitting questions. But to-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: I really think that the question is also relevant to be asked, of like, what is their relationship? Are they, like, best, best friends and is that-like, is that what the show is showing us? By like-Ghost Dennis is here, Cordelia is totally comfortable taking her clothes off, getting in the back. He's scrubbing her back. There's nothing sexual about the way that it's done. And so, I just don't know if it's there to tell us how tenderly he cares for his friend, that there is no question of anything, like, even sexual happening here. It's just-
Jenny: That's definitely, I think, the tone.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: For sure.
Kristin: Yeah. I want my own Ghost Dennis.
LaToya: [laughing] Be careful what you wish for.
Kristin: I know, I-
Jenny: Yeah, look out.
Kristin: Trust me, I thought about it-in the middle of a sentence, I thought about it and I said, you will continue. You will request. [laughter]
Jenny: Let it rip. [Kristin laughs] Have you guys ever seen so many fucking vampires riding around in convertibles as you see in this goddamn episode?
LaToya: All these vampires have a death wish. And they're like, we can do whatever we want. It's LA, baby. [laughter]
Kristin: Like, let me get a convertible that doesn't protect me from the sun. Let me smoke a bunch of cigarette-like, vampires are so destructive. They really are. Self-destructive.
LaToya: But yeah, they're just in the convertible. And you know, they've taken some hostages, a couple from this party. And-
Jenny: Uh-oh.
LaToya: The girl one, who is the worst one, according to Cordelia's vision-the blond, Elizabeth. She's like, "oh. You two a couple? Would you die for her?! Or, you know, if I let you go and I kill her, is that cool?" And he's like, yep, that's cool. And she-[laughter]
Jenny: Oh, god! And then, oh no, they both survive. That is not gonna be…
LaToya: Oh-no-
Kristin: I thought the same thing!
Jenny: Pretty.
LaToya: [laughing] Oh yes, they both survive. Because-god, I wish we could have seen the scene of her reacting. "You were gonna let me die so you live?"
Kristin: Literally. I literally was like, oh man, you're screwed-you wish y ou had been bitten by a vampire now, man, 'cause you're in fucking trouble.
Jenny: Good lord.
LaToya: She better-
Kristin: It's just like when Jenny left me in the woods with a bear.
Jenny: Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa! [laughter] That is-okay. We're not gonna rehash this again, goddamnit!
Kristin: We're not retelling the whole bear story here. [laughs]
Jenny: Anyway! Angel. The show.
Kristin: Yes, the show. [Jenny sings Angel theme] Correct. But so-so I wanna say something about-I mean, I know we're gonna revisit all these couples and what have you. But I feel like the Elizabeth/James love is very much the Spike/Drusilla love, right? Like, this is-like, these are two people who are-the only way they can define love for each other is that they would, like, die for each other. Romeo and Juliet obviously is used in the episode itself, but it reminded me-
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: Of a Spike and Dru kind of a thing.
LaToya: Mmhmm. But Elizabeth is a Drusilla that Angel can easily kill.
Kristin: Mmm.
LaToya: So he can tell a little story about the past.
Kristin: Mmm. Oh, and how delighted are we when we find out we get some fucking David Boreanaz Irish accent. [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah, baby!
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: Also! Can we just laugh for a minute at what happens right before we get the convertible scene? [laughing] Which is, Angel being like, they're headed that way on 6. And Gunn being like, what are you gonna do? And then Angel being like, foosh! With his fucking leather coat out the window?
LaToya: He's like, I'm gonna do vampire things. [Jenny laughs]
Kristin: So unnecessary! So unnecessary and I love it. [laughs]
Jenny: And so unlike Angel to be dramatic like that. [Kristin laughs]
LaToya: I mean, I feel it's very necessary. It's, uh… [Jenny laughs] just like- 'cause the show-the episode opens with exposition. Which I think it's good exposition, but still exposition.
Kristin: Yeah.
LaToya: And like, this premiere is like, I guess redefining the show, letting you know what it is. It's by itself, it's paired with 7th Heaven.
NOTES: [AD BREAK]
LaToya: So James and Elizabeth. They were, you know, hanging out with Darla and Angel before Drusilla and Spike were in the picture.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Which, I mean… you would think that these two, after having a pair of-like, a flop couple before. They wouldn't try to have another flop couple with them. [laughter]
Kristin: They like a quartet, you know? They like to-they like to add a little spice into the mix.
LaToya: They like to have someone to, like, dunk on, basically. [laughter]
Jenny: Oh, god, that really is what they're into, huh? That's like, one of their kinks.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Having another pair of vampires around [laughs] that they can just diss.
NOTES: [Kristin laughs]
LaToya: Right, yeah. So they're in Marseilles, 1767. James and Elizabeth are going on about how much they love each other. And Angelus and Darla are like, this fucking sucks. [laughing] Why did we sire them? Angelus gives them like 100 years, kinda like the Master did for Angelus and Darla.
Kristin: Mmm!
Jenny: Oh, true!
LaToya: And kinda like the Master, Angelus was wrong. [laughter]
Kristin: Yeah, they fucking lived and stayed together. They did better than Spike and Dru.
Jenny: Did people have mullets in 1767? [laughter] I don't remember seeing any mullets in period pieces from this era.
Kristin: [simultaneously, laughing] You're talking about the locket picture? It killed me!
LaToya: They did in France.
Jenny: I'm talking about his-about James's hair in this flashback. It's just like, straight mullet!
Kristin: Yeah. The locket photo is good too.
LaToya: This is the hair they had in France in 1767. [laughter] It was Mulletsville.
Jenny: Mmm. Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: So yeah, Liz gets her locket. And like-I think it's fun. Because I think it's fun that Angel and Darla know what kind of love, if you wanna call it that, they have. Like, they know what they are to each other, and they are fully confident in it. They are fully confident in being like, yeah, go kill her, I don't care. Like, Angel fully knows that she's gonna be fine. And he's just like, ah, fuck it, I'll find her in another ten years. What's ten years to a vampire who's gonna live for centuries?
LaToya: Yeah. In the meantime, also, Angelus and Darla are trying to make it on time for a ship. Because they are also-and again, they created this accompaniment who's only slowing them down. They're running away from Holtz, a character who was mentioned in Season 2's The Trial. And in a flashback, they show [laughs] Darla leaving Angelus behind in Morocco, basically-
Kristin: Mmm.
LaToya: Leaving him for dead with Holtz. Which, you know, that's their love.
Kristin: Mmhmm!
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: Their love is like, I have my life, you have mine [sic], we like to fuck.
LaToya: Yeah.
Kristin: That's their love. You know?
LaToya: She's like, I'll see you when I see you. [laughs]
Kristin: [laughing] Yeah, I'll see you when I see you. [laughter] I understand that, like, there's intentionality around letting us remember and always remember how evil Angelus is. But I really could have done without the "wife repeating on me"… situation.
Jenny: Really horrific.
Kristin: Pretty fucking bad. And like, we get it, we get it. You killed his fucking wife and his family. I don't know that we needed that line to understand. That's my take, but yeah.
Jenny: How about the foreshadowing of James telling Angelus he knows nothing of poetry? [laughter] Which-
LaToya: Tell me "I know nothing of poetry," I'm gonna turn a poet next time! Yeah, that'll show him!
Jenny: I think his tai chi studies and his deep dive into poetry probably all occurred at the same time in his big self improvement kick. You know?
Kristin: He's like-yeah. He's like, going through all the digs that have ever been hurled at him. And just like, undoing them one by one. [laughs]
Jenny: He's like, hmm. I'll do this, I'll do this.
Kristin: But each-
LaToya: What if James was like, "you can't even sketch!" and that's why Angel starts sketching. [laughter]
Kristin: "You don't even know what charcoal is!" [laughter]
LaToya: Also, I will just say, I know we clown on Boreanaz's accent. But I will say, this is the best his flashback wig has ever looked. [Kristin laughs]
Jenny: So, James, fearing nothing, decides to punch a window, steal a locket, and then, when the French police? Show up, he says, "come on, you bloody frogs." I would like to apologize on behalf of the show to French people and also Michigan J. [laughter] We are sorry.
LaToya: The other thing about them being a proto-Spike-Drusilla thing, as I noted in the intro, is just the fact that obviously we can't have Spike, because he's over on the B-word. But it does make me imagine a world in which Spike didn't become as necessary to the B-word-verse as he did, where he could be the fodder to have in this flashback.
Kristin: Right.
LaToya: And then just kill him at the end of the episode. Because-
Kristin: Whoa.
LaToya: Yeah. I just imagine the way the entire world of both B the Vampire Slayer and Angel the series would be-
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah.
LaToya: If Spike weren't such an important character.
Kristin: I don't like James as a character. I don't know how everybody feels about James as a character-
Jenny: Blegh!
Kristin: Yeah. He's pretty rough. We never really get to know that much about Elizabeth, but I do at least enjoy her a touch. I like her locket, I like her attitude enough. James is just fucking boring. And he fucking kills the dude who informs him and tells him what's up. He's fucking rude, he gets this stupid-ass heart removal. I just-I'm over him. I'm over him so hard. Can we talk about the fact that James gets his heart removed? Can we talk about it?
LaToya: See, that-again, that is something Spike would totally do. And it's-I mean. Obviously, I love Spike being alive, but it'd be so badass if Spike did that.
NOTES: [laughs]
Kristin: That is something Spike would do. And also-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Dru would be over the fucking moon about it! To have Spike's heart in a jar? That's, like, literally the stuff Dru is made of. [laughs]
Jenny: Also! The fucking exposition vamp, who's like "hey!" [Kristin laughs] while James is staring simply on at the fucking crashed convertible in the-from the parking garage. And exposition vamp is like, this is what happened, this is what happened. And then James pushes him-
Kristin: Oh my god.
Jenny: Into some sun and he immediately-
Kristin: [laughing] Combusts!
Jenny: Is completely in flames.
Kristin: So hard!
Jenny: Now, how many times have we seen Spike have his, like, hand be in the sun-
Kristin: [laughing] I know.
Jenny: For like, thirty seconds and then catch on fire. Or Spike running through the fucking broad daylight with like a blanket trailing over his head. Like, the inconsistency of how fast this vampire-
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Completely…
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Is entombed in flames is-is-
Kristin: I thought of you. I thought of you, Jenny.
Jenny: Is upsetting. Thank you.
Kristin: I thought, Jenny's gonna be pissed about this.
Jenny: Thank you. I just want a little consistency. That's all I want. [laughter]
LaToya: I'm sorry. So Angel has told the gang his story of being chased by Holtz and who James and Elizabeth are. And you know what? They're invested. They wanna know more of the story. But uh, Angel's a little scamp. He's like, I'll only give you a little bit of it. [Kristin laughs] To be continued, Angel says. He literally says that, it's crazy. Angel has really gotten Hollywood since the B-word left the network. [laughter] You know where we're going? We're going to Caritas, baby.
Jenny: It's Senior's Night at Caritas.
Kristin: It is Senior's Night at Caritas! [laughter] And like, Lorne is singing, so aptly, "Left My Heart in San Francisco." Love to see Lorne. You know, Jenny and I don't get to talk about Lorne very often. But I mean, what's not to fucking adore about Lorne? And Caritas, which I believe you taught us how to say that correctly in the season finale of Angel On Top, Season 2. [LaToya laughs] Thank you so much, LaToya, for that.
LaToya: That's what I'm here for. Pronunciation.
Kristin: [laughs] So yeah, right. Lorne is singing at Caritas. And the reason that we're all there is because Wesley and Gunn are there to meet Merl, who is played by an actor whose name I can pronounce, Matthew James. And I am so sorry to tell everybody this, but I was like, fucking Merl. I love Merl. I remember just really enjoying Merl. Let me find out who this guy is, what he's up to right now, what he's doing. I Googled Matthew James and I discovered that his most recent project is a film that I believe he, like, wrote, directed, and produced? And starred in? And the title of the film… is Nipples and Palm Trees. [LaToya laughs] The subtitle of the film is "every guy deserves a happy ending." I am so sorry to report this news to you, but that is what our pal Matthew James has been up to. I texted LaToya and Jenny faster than I've texted anyone in my life. I was like, "I found out something bad about Merle!"
LaToya: This makes me wanna rip my heart out, honestly. [laughter]
Jenny: Uh…
Kristin: Imagine-
Jenny: I'm… almost too upset to even say 1080P HD.
LaToya: [laughs] "Almost."
Kristin: I'm gonna try to separate Merl from Matthew James. Because I genuinely do enjoy Merl, in this episode, and he-what does he do? Why is he here? He tells them about the heart. The Slod demon? Who has cut out James's heart. The next thing I have to say is about how I-maybe my biggest turn-on in the whole episode is how Cordelia and Angel fight with each other.
Jenny: Oh my god. "Where's my hurling ax? This is all different." [laughter] Yes!
LaToya: Ah. Daddy really is home. This old man had a system. And they changed it.
Kristin: Mmhmm. [Jenny laughs]
LaToya: In the three months he was gone. Because here's the thing. They know Angel, they know he'll be annoyed by things being different, in his home-
Jenny: Oh yeah.
LaToya: Which is also their business. [Kristin laughs] But at the same time, Angel's not the boss. So they can do whatever they want. [laughter]
Kristin: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Cordelia in her blazer-she's in her blazer at this point, right?
Kristin: Ughh! Yes.
LaToya: Uh, yeah. That blazer.
Jenny: That will do. [Kristin exhales]
LaToya: That blazer and that bob. Didn't know I needed it.
Jenny: Blazer, bob… and-
LaToya: Breasts. [laughter]
Jenny: The big-perhaps the biggest turn-on of all. Oh my god, not bre-well, okay, those are fine too. [laughter] But I love when a woman in genre film or TV finally puts her foot and says, no, I'm not gonna go home to be by myself and be-
Kristin: Hell yes!
Jenny: Vulnerable in that way. Because they always come for me when I'm by myself, and then I'm the hostage and I hate it. [Kristin laughs] Thank you!
Kristin: Yeah. Cordelia's just… you know. So much of what we've seen of like, a woman interacting with Angel-Angel specifically-has been the B-word. And so-and like, the B-word, mm, put her foot down a little bit. But not really, like, not really.
LaToya: I mean-
Kristin: I mean, she did send him to hell. But other than that.
LaToya: I mean, Buffy even had more of a leg to stand on, though, once she put her foot-
Kristin: Uh, sorry. Mm.
LaToya: Oh. Goddamnit. Sorry, the B-word! My own damn rules. [laughter] The B-word had even more of a leg to stand on when she, you know, put her foot down. Because she was stronger than Angel and could kick more ass. Cordy doesn't have that-
Kristin: Mmhmm.
LaToya: But she does know that being separated is the worst thing to do. [laughs]
Kristin: Am I allowed to say Cordelia's line at the end of this episode, that is like, the embodiment of why I love them, like, bickering?
LaToya: Please do. Go ahead.
Kristin: She says, "I'm Cordelia. I don't think. I know."
LaToya: It's true!
Kristin: Ugh! It's so true!
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And that is why we miss her over in the B-word, because…
LaToya: Ha-ha!
Kristin: We love-I mean, we got Spike now. But we love-we love a Cordy who doesn't think.
LaToya: In the-
Kristin: She knows.
LaToya: In the B-verse draft, we won big when we got Cordy.
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah. It's true. [laughter]
LaToya: Watch these shows like I watch my sports, because I am a jock, as we all know. [laughs]
Jenny: Aww. The pod jock. [laughter] Thank god. Fred choosing this moment to bravely step out of her room. Fred, no!
Kristin: Ugh!
LaToya: [laughing] "I'm ready to come out."
Jenny: That's not the sound of company.
Kristin: Sweet Fred!
Jenny: That is not the sound of company!
Kristin: She doesn't remember! She doesn't know.
Jenny: Oh, true. Yeah, she might be all fucked up on context.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Incredible fire extinguisher chuck-
Kristin: Mmhmm. Mmhmm.
Jenny: From Cordelia. That is some impressive, I don't know, shot-putting? [Kristin laughs] What do you… what are heavy things you throw for sport? I'm asking the pod jock.
Kristin: Disc-the discus?
LaToya: Yeah, that's also a thing.
Jenny: Help us.
LaToya: I mean, you were both right. Like-[laughing] you're both correct.
Kristin: Wow! Maybe there's three pod jocks, Jenny. [LaToya laughs]
Jenny: Hell yeah! High five, chest bump.
LaToya: Oh no.
Jenny: Dumping Gatorade over your head. [laughter] I love sport!
Kristin: So right, Fred comes out and is all scared, et cetera, goes back to her room. And then they, like, sort of divert into the sewers. [laughing] Giving me what might be one of my favorite exchanges in this episode, if not my favorite. Where Cordelia! Who's so fucking brilliant, she's got it all up here, is like, he must-does he have a ring? Did you see a ring on his finger? I remember this.
Jenny: Uh-huh, uh-huh.
Kristin: It was called the Gem of Amara. And then Angel, like, rolling his fucking eyes, is like, [deep voice] "no! I obviously looked to see if there was a ring, and there wasn't a ring." [laughing] And then Cordelia! [laughter] Is like, "did the Amara people make cufflinks or belt buckles?"
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And I wanna reach through the television screen and kiss her! Because I love her so much!
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Ughhh!
LaToya: I mean-
Jenny: That's good stuff.
LaToya: Angel is frustrated, but these are valid questions. [laughter]
Kristin: Yeah!
LaToya: And-
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Yeah.
LaToya: I do love-and I think, especially-because they're both having an argument and they are fleeing for their lives. I think this episode has a great balance of the comedy and drama of Angel.
Kristin: Yeah.
LaToya: I think-I think this is, like, an episode that shows that Angel the show has kind of figured it all out.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And I was even noting to you guys before that like, the promos for The WB for this season of Angel also kinda changed. Where they had, like, the super serious drama thing, and then it would pivot to like the comedy beat. Where before, it was just like, all drama. [deep voice] "And this is a serious show, serious man things. Angel!" [laughter] Yeah! Hungry Man! [laughter]
Kristin: But yeah, I agree. I think I've said-I don't know where I've said this. But you know that one of my hot takes is having wa-when I had watched the first few episodes of Angel and I had watched the first few episodes of the B-word, season on season, 6 to 3. I was like, ooh, Angel's got their shit more figured out right now, than I think B does, over where she's hanging out. And like, listen, the seasons will unfold. But I will say that, one to one? Angel's in the lead. [laughs]
LaToya: And we will be hearing more of that throughout this season of Angel On Top. [laughter] In! Kristin's corner! K-K-K-K-Kristin's corner!
Kristin: Oooooh!
Jenny: Ha!
NOTES: [KRISTIN'S CORNER jingle plays] Kristin's Corner! Kristin's Corner! It's all Riley sucks and what the fuck And horny is hot Kristin's Corner is the place For very deep thoughts
LaToya: Because Kristin is just so enamored by this season of television, we couldn't just let her be on one episode. Oh, no. [Kristin laughs] So Kristin's Corner, throughout Angel On Top, Season 3, will have Kristin's opinions on the episodes. What is she thinking about Cordelia's bob? What is she thinking about Angel's button-ups? Hey. [laughter] What's she thinking about Fred's accent?
Kristin: Wow.
LaToya: We'll find out all of that and more.
Kristin: [laughs] Thank you so much-
Jenny: Oh, it's so great that Kristin's opinions are valued to the point where they need to be in every episode. That's, uh, so great for Kristin.
LaToya: [simultaneously] I mean, sometimes we can have Jenny's Jar.
Jenny: Congrats.
LaToya: That can be in a few episodes. [laughter]
Kristin: [laughing] Jenny's Jar!
LaToya: [laughing] It's a little thing.
Jenny: That sounds…
LaToya: It's a little thing. It's Jenny's Jar because it's where you give your… two cents.
Kristin: [gasps] Hot!
Jenny: Wow! Okay, I love it.
Kristin: Wow, Toya! Wow!
Jenny: Ha!
LaToya: So now we are on public transportation in Los Angeles, which is popping, you guys. For the first time ever.
Kristin: I mean, listen. I've-I have taken [Jenny laughs] public transportation in Los Angeles. I'm sure-well, I'm not sure that both of you have. But it is usually not that crowded on public transportation in Los Angeles.
LaToya: Especially not the metro-like. This-this is like-[crosstalk]
Jenny: No, no, no.
Kristin: I should say, yes, the metro.
LaToya: Yeah, their thing's in a New York subway system. Which I love to see.
Kristin: Exactly.
LaToya: But… [laughter] that's not reality.
Kristin: No. It's not-it's not my experience-it has not been my experience of the subway in Los Angeles. However… thank god that they take the subway, because if they hadn't taken the subway, we would have never gotten to see James turning into, like, some kind of insect jumper? Like, the way he-
LaToya: He turns-well, he does that-
Jenny: It's so creepy. It's so X Files.
Kristin: Yeah.
LaToya: Before he turns into Senator Kelly from the first X-Men movie, like, right before he turn-before he turns into water. [laughs]
Jenny: And like… doubling down on his shittier version of Spike bit, he engages in a subway fight. We've seen a subway fight before.
Kristin: Wow! Good call, Jenny.
Jenny: I do think him ripping the seat out of the subway car and using it-
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: To hit Angel is a lot cooler than Angel's move of borrowing somebody's crutches? [laughter]
Kristin: [laughing] Yes.
Jenny: And then kind of using them like little bat wings. [laughter]
LaToya: Well no, that is cool because Cordelia has to catch the guy. And that's pretty awesome. [laughs]
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah.
Jenny: Okay, that does rock.
Kristin: And then like, I guess the purpose of this exchange is to wound Angel, right? To like, make-
LaToya: Yeah, we should-we should talk more about all of the things James is saying, basically.
Kristin: Yeah.
LaToya: 'Cause James is going in on Angelus, as he knows him-
Kristin: Right.
LaToya: To-not knowing anything about love, why'd you do it? You just know you-like, why'd you kill Elizabeth? You just did it for fun 'cause you're a sick bastard. Which, it's-
Kristin: Mmhmm.
LaToya: I guess it is a matter of, you know, the 90s/early 2000s, that so many people don't know that Angel has a soul. Like, some know and then, you know, they spread it. But a lot of people are just like, he's still Angelus, right? And then they get a rude awakening.
Jenny: It's not like he's, like, on Twitter, like, tweeting from RecentlyEnsouledVamp69. [laughter] Brooding today, brooding once more, brooding again.
LaToya: Which, when I was just searching for things about, like, Angel's fighting influence to see if there was anything I could find. I did find a Q&A with David Boreanaz from like a fan site, to which he said he's not set up on email yet. [laughter] So like, back in the day, he was not set up on email yet.
Kristin: But yeah, like, he-like, James's line of like, "I lived, you existed." I felt like he was saying that as a dig toward him and Darla. But-
LaToya: Yeah.
Kristin: That's what kinda ungrounds Angel to think about the fact that he did have one true love, at least to date. And that he didn't get to be with that person and also, didn't get to be with her when she died.
LaToya: Yeah, uh…
Jenny: Oof.
LaToya: James has, like, this vision of love that, you know, you can't live without this person, literally.
Kristin: Right.
LaToya: And, uh… basically, if Angel had truly loved B, he would have, like, killed himself basically, after she died. Which is very toxic. They bring up Romeo and Juliet, which is-
Kristin: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Of course, not a romance. It is a tragedy.
Kristin: Yeah.
LaToya: We should all remember that.
Jenny: Uh-huh!
Kristin: You should die if your lover dies. That is not a healthy relationship. And Angel-I don't-Angel hasn't figured it out. Because he needs the brains of theoperation: Cordelia.
LaToya: Yes. Cordelia, who is not the woman he loves, as they make clear.
Jenny: I really like the comedy moment we get, where Angel's like, I'm different now. And James is like, oh, so you're not the same man who screwed Darla and couldn't care less what happened to her? [laughter] And Angel's like, oh shit, no. I haven't changed.
LaToya: He's like, what'd you hear? [laughter]
Jenny: Oops.
LaToya: Oh, before. [laughter]
Kristin: He's like-yeah, literally, what did they tell you? [laughter] Oh, you mean 200 years ago. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, cool, cool, cool, cool, right, right, right, right, right. [laughs]
LaToya: Ah. The fight doesn't have really a conclusion. It's just, James turns into Senator Kelly from X-Men, the movie.
Kristin: So we-so we think it's-
Jenny: Dude, so unsatisfying. So weird.
Kristin: Was it six hours? Was that the math? Was it-it must have been six hours, right?
LaToya: It must have been six hours [laughter] and not six days, weeks, years. I think that is also a good way to start off Angel, where it's like, you have this villain-of-the-week. And they don't even really defeat it, it just kind of ends.
Kristin: Mmm.
LaToya: And Angel has to sit with himself. And you know what? I think Angel should be sitting with… the dubba-dubba-WB.
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: [gasps] What possibly could you mean, LaToya?!
LaToya: So here's the thing. None of these characters are going to therapy. And you know what? [Kristin laughs] We think that's bad. So since he won't do any real therapy, maybe he should do some television therapy. So a new segment on Angel On Top-because I am deranged-[laughter] is I will be recommending to the character of Angel, or maybe even other characters, possibly-what episode of television they should watch on their network, The WB. To, you know, help them move forward with the issues they're facing. Hit the music!
NOTES: [Dubba-dubba-WB jingle plays] Angel is a vampire Does he even like TV? "I think he'll like The WB." They got that hot teen drama To ease the pain and trauma And here's the episode that he Needs to see (aw yeah!)
LaToya: I'm actually going to recommend an episode of The WB that premiered the same year, a few months earlier, February 16th, 2001. It is the Grosse Pointe episode, Passion Fish, which is episode 16 of its one and only season. The penultimate episode of Grosse Pointe. Which for people who don't know, Grosse Pointe was a half-hour sitcom on The WB that was created by Darren Star, creator of course of Beverly Hills, 90210, Melrose Place, eventually Sex and the City, Younger. And this comedy was a satire, parodying his experience working on Beverly Hills, 90210. On this series, actress Lindsay Sloane played a character who was basically a Tori Spelling proxy that, based on initial viewings, Aaron Spelling called Darren Star to not do that! [laughter] So they made her less Tori Spelling, although she was clearly supposed to be Tori Spelling. But in Passion Fish, Sarah Michelle Gellar cameos as herself, as a number of WB stars did at the time on Grosse Pointe. Because Grosse Pointe was basically a struggling WB series about a struggling WB series called Grosse Pointe. [Kristin laughs] So. You get Sarah Michelle Gellar. She is in the same yoga class as Lindsay Sloane's Marcy. And Marcy and Sarah Michelle Gellar become close friends, uh, to the point where Marcy believes Sarah Michelle Gellar is in lesbians with her. So the episode is navigating that.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: [gasps] Whoa.
LaToya: Yeah. It's-there is a kiss. Because-
Kristin: What!
LaToya: There is a kiss. So-
Kristin: Sarah Michelle Gellar loves to kiss women-
Jenny: Loves kissing women.
Kristin: "For acting." [laughter]
LaToya: Lindsay Sloane is also-
Kristin: I don't know if you can hear my air quotes.
LaToya: Sarah Michelle Gellar's real-life best friend, like, since they were kids. So you know, sometimes you gotta kiss your best friend.
Kristin: Best. Friend. Air quotes. Okay.
LaToya: [laughs] But yeah-
Kristin: Sorry, Freddie.
LaToya: The episode has Marcy inviting Sarah Michelle Gellar to be on Grosse Pointe, which Sarah agrees to, as long as she gets to kiss her on the show.
Kristin: Whoooaaa.
LaToya: So-
Kristin: That's a lot of layers. [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah. So the episode is a lot of navigating that relationship, and then coming to terms with a certain thing at the end. I think that if Angel could watch that episode, he would finally come to terms with the loss of the B word. Because, besides the B word, this is the last thing that Sarah Michelle Gellar ever filmed for The WB.
Kristin: Wow…
LaToya: Which is crazy. [laughs]
Jenny: Wow.
LaToya: Grosse Pointe and B the Vampire Slayer were the things she filmed before she was like, I'm outta here-
Kristin: Wow…
LaToya: To be on UPN.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: [gasps] I'm sorry, I have to go watch that episode of Grosse Pointe right now- [laughter]
LaToya: You should watch all of Grosse Pointe, but yeah, start with that. [laughs]
Kristin: Wow. What an honor to be a part of the very first dubba-dubba-WB segment here with you, LaToya.
LaToya: Yeah.
Kristin: Cannot wait to find out-we're gonna have a whole new series to watch at the end of this season-
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Which will just be all of the episodes that Angel has watched through the season. [laughs]
LaToya: [singing] Oh, what a night! Doo-doo-doo! [laughter] Doo-doo-doo-doo! So. Once all that chaos on public transportation is over. [laughter] Cordelia and Angel, you know, they have a little bonding moment at the end. In-which by the way, I love the Hyperion set and everything about it.
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
LaToya: Is it, like, the best Angel the character set? Like, better than the mansion, better than his little apartment?
Kristin: I think it is. I think it's the best-I think it's most suited. Angel is-it's where he belongs.
Jenny: I agree. I agree.
LaToya: Better than the rat-filled streets of New York. [laughter]
Kristin: Well, I mean, at that point, in his journey, that is also where he needed to be. So. [laughs]
Jenny: Better than that warehouse that Angel, Dru, Spike and the Anointed One briefly cohabitated. [laughter]
Kristin: That was pretty good, actually. I actually did really enjoy that space. [laughs]
LaToya: That's number two.
Jenny: Angel thrives in large, open-concept spaces, you know, where he can really stretch out. Have a lot of different burning flames in various corners.
LaToya: I mean, yeah, with the mansion, like, there were literally no doors or windows. That was asking for death. [Kristin laughs] At least with the hotel, you know-
Kristin: Yeah, there's places you can hide. [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah. There are, again, doors and windows. [laughs] Those things are important. And that's what Cordelia tells Angel. [laughs]
Kristin: Yeah. Well, and-right. Cordelia, she doesn't think she knows, and she's like, uh, dude, you know what you're doing? You're like, living and you're fucking fighting and that's honoring her. That's honoring the person that you loved, because if she were here, she would want you to be doing those things.
LaToya: This is one of many great Cordelia/Angel scenes in this episode. And I think that it's making clear, especially this season, that the show is definitely a two-hander. Because the way they promoted the show-like, obviously, it's David Boreanaz, he's Angel. But like, a lot of those, you know, WB, back lot, we're standing right in front of The WB and the frog's there. [laughter] Like, they would-it would always be David and Charisma. Like, they would both be the ones who would be in those back lot things in promos.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: Mmhmm. Mmhmm.
LaToya: Like, it was always promoted as, they're one and two on the call sheet, because-
Kristin: Right.
LaToya: And I think Season 3 really hones in on that, for-
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Yeah.
LaToya: Which is good because they have a great relationship. And the show's always at its best when it, like, gets on that and what their relationship is at-like, where it's at.
Kristin: Yeah.
LaToya: How she's feeling with it, how he's feeling with it, yeah.
Kristin: Yeah, and that like, Cordelia-I mean, we've known Cordelia from the beginning of Angel as someone who has known him since before. And so, what more of a moment for them to really come together than when the, like, cornerstone of how they met-the person that is like, their shared knowing-has died. You know, obviously a much bigger loss for Angel than for Cordelia. But that-I don't know. I think if you have-if you suffer a loss, it's always the people-even if you haven't seen them in years-it's always the people who knew you when you knew them, when you were in their life, that you go to for like, comfort. And who can understand most, 'cause they were a witness to it.
LaToya: Yeah.
Kristin: And Cordelia, although not, you know-
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Her best-not B's best friend, Cordelia was a witness to a very intense period of time with the two of them.
LaToya: Yeah. Like, Wesley knows a little bit of it, but he doesn't fully know. He was still on the outside when he was there.
Kristin: He was still trying to kiss Cordelia, let us never speak of it again. [laughs]
Jenny: Blegghhh!
LaToya: I mean, in his defense, who doesn't wanna kiss Cordelia?
Kristin: [laughing] It's true, it's true.
LaToya: [laughing] Which is the perfect transition into Fuck Watch. [laughter] [FUCK WATCH jingle plays] Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing Fuck Watch!
LaToya: For any new listeners, Fuck Watch is-well, the segment where we pick who or what we wanna fuck. It really is that simple. Thank you so much.
Kristin: Wow, it almost sounded like somebody else was, like, in there. Saying, uh, "Fuck Watch." I don't know if my ears deceived me, but…
LaToya: Maybe. [laughter] So this is difficult for me. Because if I remember Fuck Watch rules correctly, you can't say someone-
Kristin: Yeah.
LaToya: More than once. So that's why I can't say Cordelia with that blazer, with that bob. One of you go. I have to think. [laughter]
Jenny: Well!
Kristin: Jenny, what do you got?
Jenny: I'm ready. Broad of shoulder. And, uh, tall of inseam. And cool and light and appropriate for a variety of seasons. I choose Angel's retreat outfit. [Kristin laughs]
LaToya: See, because-
Jenny: Me and that retreat outfit. We're gonna get to know each other.
LaToya: Because you're not on every episode, so you can just, like, go with Angel immediately. [laughs]
Kristin: But she cheated. She didn't go with Angel, she went with the outfit, LaToya.
Jenny: I just want the outfit.
Kristin: She doesn't want the hunk inside, she just wants the outfit.
Jenny: I'm not even saving Angel for a rainy day. [laughter] My truest love of the episode is simply his retreat outfit.
LaToya: You know what? Fuck it. I am choosing Cordelia with that blazer and that bob.
Kristin: Yeah, LaToya!
Jenny: Woo-hooo!
Kristin: Go for it!
LaToya: I literally, like, searched-[laughs] the reason this is on my mind. I was like, going through Season 3, and I'm like, I know that's a good choice, I know that's a good choice. But you know what? In my heart of hearts, this is the choice.
Kristin: Yeah. And you know what? Live your life.
Jenny: It is.
Kristin: Live your life.
LaToya: And I know you're all like, screaming at me, [whining] "What about in Waiting in the Wings? What about in Birthday?" I know! [laughter] Don't you think I know?! [laughter]
Kristin: I mean. Jenny and I do have an advantage in that we're not going to be on all of the episodes. But we have a disadvantage in that we don't know which episodes we're going to be on. So we could be eliminating something very important. But LaToya, inspired by your energy, um… I'm gonna go Pregnant Darla. At the bar.
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: That was a close second-
LaToya: Bar-la.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: To Angel's outfit. [laughs]
Kristin: Fucking Darla, but like, after she fucking picks up that motherfucking lime and is like, goodnight! [laughter]
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: I will pick Darla. Thank you very much.
LaToya: And now we can talk Darla. Which again-
Kristin: Yeah.
LaToya: An epilogue to the episode.
Kristin: Yeah!
LaToya: Because the episode is clearly over.
Kristin: They give you, like, a full hero shot.
LaToya: Yeah.
Kristin: Like, they're all like, weapons up-
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: Walking away, and you're like, wow, what a great premiere. [makes tire screech sound]
LaToya: [laughs] Now we're in Nicaragua, baby! [Kristin laughs] Where they speak "Spanish" and not "foreign language." [laughs]
Kristin: [laughing] Oh my god.
Jenny: Ugh!
Kristin: Oh, captions.
LaToya: And this is how the show does a little cheat. Because obviously, Julie Benz is already credited as special guest star, 'cause she's in the flashback. So why would you expect her-
Kristin: Uh-[gasps]
Jenny: Very smooth, very smooth.
LaToya: Yeah.
Kristin: Wow!
LaToya: They don't have to do the crediting at the end, because she's already been in the episode. She's been there.
Kristin: Holy shit. That is brilliant. I didn't realize that-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: 'Cause I fucking hate that shit. I hate how you're spoiled with the special guest star shit, it drives me nuts.
LaToya: Angel and Buffy are pretty good about-I think-I don't want to say they invented it. But like, it kinda seems like the "surprise! And we're gonna credit them at the end" is very much a… an Angel and B word-I already said Buffy again, but whatever [laughs]-B word thing. Like, in the Season 2 premiere, the final scene is Faith and Angel. And then, during the end credits, it's "special guest star, Eliza Dushku."
Kristin: Mmm.
LaToya: They give you an actual surprise, instead of telling you, well, she's here-
Kristin: Yeah.
LaToya: And you're just gonna have to keep waiting. Shows even now don't really do that. Like, you'll be lucky, with streaming, where they'll have end credits anyway. But you know, some shows don't do that and they still have normal, you know-
Kristin: No, and they blow everything. It's like, who wants to fucking-ugh. Sorry, I like, heard most of what you said. But for part of the time, I was just imagining Darla at the bar. [laughter]
Jenny: Mmm!
LaToya: Ah!
Kristin: What a reveal! What a fucking reveal.
Jenny: Hey, Darla's fucking pregnant, man!
Kristin: Yo, she is like, really pregnant.
Jenny: She's so fucking pregnant. She's like, ready to go! She's like-
LaToya: Given everything that happens in this episode, would you imagine that this is how it ends, basically? [laughs]
Kristin: Literally never. I almost forget every time.
Jenny: Never in a million years.
Kristin: To be honest with you. [laughs]
LaToya: And you're just like, oh yeah! She's at the bar! She's pregnant.
Kristin: It's just wonderful, the way they do it. That this fucking-and this fucking guy comes in. And is like, being all fucking, I'm a dude and you should have a drink and then you should, like, fucking make out with me, or whatever. And she's so over it.
LaToya: This fucking dude sucks 'cause you know, of course he does. But I do like that once you realize she's pregnant, like, oh, his reaction to her is like, what the fuck? You're pregnant and you're just like, fucking pounding 'em back?! [laughter] That's what his, like, reaction actually is to her. But you don't know it initially. [laughs]
Kristin: Ohh! I don't even think I realized that in watching 50 times. [LaToya laughs] Now that makes sense. [laughs]
Jenny: Wow.
LaToya: And that's more of what you can hear in Kristin's Corner. [laughter]
Kristin: Literally! A summary of Kristin's Corner is "I didn't even realize that and I've watched it 50 times." [laughter] Wow. Yeah, but fucking-I mean, just an incredible, incredible reveal. What is gonna happen next? Holy shit.
LaToya: Yeah, uh, we got a pregnant vampire. And last we checked, that's not supposed to happen. [laughs]
Kristin: Sure isn't.
Jenny: Uh-huh!
Kristin: Sure the fuck isn't. Is that baby a vampire too? Did two vampires make a vampire? Do two vampires make a human? Do two vampires make a worm demon? Who will know. Only those who continue forward.
LaToya: [simultaneously] More snake demons in the B-verse, please! So that was Heartthrob, yes? We did it.
Jenny: It's done.
Kristin: What an episode. What a fucking season of Angel. I am, like, very excited for all of the incredible people that you're gonna talk to this season. But I am thankful that I get a corner, because… I have-I'm just so excited about it. LaToya! We're so happy that you're here in the universe with us, to teach us all the things that we need to know about Angel and the B word. Truly, I think you'll be teaching us about both universes. [laughter] With all of the knowledge that you carry.
LaToya: So much knowledge, it just spills out of my head and then I'm like, what did I forget? So. That has been… Angel On Top. Our next episode will be Season 3, Episode 2, That Vision Thing. You can find me on Twitter @lafergs. L-A-F-E-R-G-S. I do not have Instagram. I am an old. It's not gonna happen, I'm sorry. [laughter] If you also wanna hear me talking about vampires with moral and ethical dilemmas, you can listen to my podcast, The AMPire Diaries. It is… 125% hornier than this podcast, I will say.
Kristin: You only just got started!
LaToya: I was gonna say… 'cause I'm trying to be professional and like, smart here. As opposed to there, I'm just like-I'm dumb. And I'm just like, well, you know, he's hot, she's hot. So. [laughs] That's me on that.
Kristin: You just set yourself up to get a lot of emails being like, but LaToya, we want-we want horny LaToya. Please?
LaToya: Oh, god. [laughter]
Kristin: If you wanna support this podcast and LaToya, you can support on Patreon, where you get real fun things, like sometimes Jenny and I will do an Angel Watch with you. We just finished one with Heartthrob. So… angelontop.com will take you there, to that space.
LaToya: Please support me. I was going to do an Oliver Twist accent and then I decided against it. [laughter] Okay, I'll do it.
Jenny: It couldn't be any worse than David Boreanaz.
Kristin: Nope.
LaToya: [high-pitched British accent] Please support me! [laughter]
Kristin: Yes! [Angel On Top theme plays]