Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 6.12: Doublemeat Palace
NOTES: [CHIME]
Jenny: Oh, hey, everybody!
Kristin: Oh, hey, everybody!
Jenny: Wow! Here we are.
Kristin: Wow! I thought I would double you.
Jenny: Thank…you?
Kristin: For the Doublemeat Palace.
Jenny: Ohh my god, double your meat! Double your fun!
Kristin: [laughs] Do you know what producer Alba told me, just earlier today when we were chatting?
Jenny: I don't.
Kristin: That the minute she finished listening to this episode, Doublemeat Palace, she ordered McDonalds and enjoyed her McDonalds burger so deeply. So it-
Jenny: Hell yeah.
Kristin: Was not our intention to create an advertisement for fast food, but hey, we're all impacted differently by different things, and, uh…
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: There you have it. [laughs]
Jenny: I hope that she got a Big Mac, pulled one patty out-
Kristin: Ooh.
Jenny: And replaced it with four chicken nuggets.
Kristin: [pleased] Ugh!
Jenny: Excuse me, chicken McNuggets.
Kristin: Wow. Okay, before we start actually advertising for McDonalds on this podcast…[laughs]
Jenny: Mmhmm. Yes.
Kristin: Let's tell you about some things happening here. First of all, guess what, Jenny?
Jenny: What?
Kristin: We're doing a live taping. Really soon.
Jenny: Yay!
Kristin: June 3rd, Thursday, we are doing a live taping of a particular episode. I did not choose this episode. Jenny chose this episode. It is Season 6, Episode 15, it is called As You Were.
Jenny: I wonder what special aspect of this episode could have moved me so much that I requested we do a live taping of it.
Kristin: Well, there is a character named Sam in the episode. And you did used to have a cat named Sam, who I still have-
Jenny: [simultaneously] That's true! Huge fan of-
Kristin: So maybe it's just, you love Sam.
Jenny: Sams, the world over. Mmhmm.
Kristin: Sams for life. If you know, you know. Season 6, Episode 15, As You Were. Jenny and I will be taping that live in front of your faces-
Jenny: Mmm!
Kristin: Perhaps agreeing or disagreeing on certain points.
Jenny: Hm-hmm!
Kristin: Thursday, June 3rd, 8 PM Eastern, 5 PM Pacific. Tickets are $12. We also have a ticket tier, if you're watching with other people and you wanna throw us a couple extra bucks. And all of that information can be found at bufferingthevampireslayer.com/ticketing. Yes, we do know it is a Thursday at 8 PM Eastern. It is not a globally-approved time for a live taping. We just weren't able to schedule this one on a weekend, but if you have tickets, the recording of the live taping will also be sent to you. A couple of you have already asked about that, so A. we know you're out there. We know time is a real thing. [Jenny laughs] And B. if you are not in a timezone that this is super friendly toward, you can still get a ticket and watch the video after the fact, if you'd like-
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: If you wish. Also, if you're one of our patrons, guess what? You can watch this episode with us live, the day before we do our taping-
Jenny: [gasps twice] Oh my god.
Kristin: Wednesday, June 2nd, 9 PM Eastern, 6 PM Pacific. All of these details are obviously on our calendar, bufferingthevampireslayer.com. What's really fun, I think, about doing a live watch of an episode with us before we record it, is that nine times out of ten, we wind up bringing in feedback from that live watch to the recording. You know? It's like…
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: Usually, the chat that we have while we watch informs our taping, so. Get thee to-
Jenny: We learn so much.
Kristin: Get thee to the live taping.
Jenny: Yeah! Also-
Kristin: [simultaneously] And hey, you know what, if you're a patron, amongst other things-tonight, this very night, Wednesday, April 28th. You can join Feels Like the First Time and watch Tremors-
Jenny: [simultaneously] Wooo!
Kristin: With me and Joanna Robinson. And I don't know, Jenny, are you coming to Tremors? You gonna watch with us?
Jenny: TBD! I gotta-
Kristin: TBD! Nobody ever knows.
Jenny: I am-you can't pin me down, Kristin. [Kristin laughs] I'm a leaf on the wind.
Kristin: Don't I know it?
Jenny: But one place you can definitely find me is-if you are a patron of Angel On Top, wow. Live in your feed, girls on film, me and Morgan Lutich having a very special pod-convo about my new favorite movie, Legally Blond.
Kristin: Your new favorite movie? Wow, moved right up in the ranks.
Jenny: I love it so much! We had a great convo. Morgan is the best. Elle Woods rips.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Bruiser Woods, friggin' awesome.
Kristin: Yep.
Jenny: So you can find that convo over on the Angel On Top Patreon feed.
Kristin: Which is, by the way, real easy to find. You just go to angelontop.com and boom, you're there. So, ta-da.
Jenny: And speaking of things being on top of other things, it's time…for the results…
Kristin: [whispers] Oh, boy.
Jenny: Of last episode's Sexual Tension Awards, for Gone! Very polarizing noms-
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: In some very, very polarized slots. You know?
Kristin: This was like a serious-I mean, this was a serious situation where I believe the vote was split-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: By the lower tiers in a way that we'll never know. We'll never know.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: But this is the res-these are them. These are them.
Jenny: Two clear favorites and two clear…anti-favorites. [both laugh] In fourth place with 3% of the vote, we have Nerds and the Invisibility Ray.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Terrible showing for them, but understandable.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: In third place, with only 2% more, 5% of the vote, we have Boys and Yapping. Honestly? Kind of wild that that beat out Nerds and the Invisi-or is it? I don't know. [Kristin laughs] Now. More shocking to me is that only in second place, with 45% of the vote, do we have Spike and Invisi-Buffy.
Kristin: Incredible.
Jenny: Who were beaten out…by the takers of the number one slot. These two noms snagged 47% of the vote. It's Xander and Nakey Spike.
Kristin: Fuck yeah.
Jenny: Wow. Congrats, boys.
Kristin: [simultaneously] We didn't even have those-we didn't even have those two on the list before we taped the episode. [Jenny laughs] They were an organic-they came from the conversation itself.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Incre-I was very, very proud of these two. You know what?
Jenny: Look at them go. They're unstoppable.
Kristin: Yeah, look at them go. Hey, Jenny, how about a quick email before we go into this episode?
Jenny: Friggin' lay it on me! I am prepared.
Kristin: I just realized that this is quite thematic, since there's also an episode with you talking about Elle Woods. Because this email is from Stacy, who is a law student.
Jenny: [gasps] The law.
Kristin: [laughs] Stacy wrote in to say, "Hey, I'm a first-year law student currently studying for my property final, and a question that you mused on in the Flooded episode has stuck in my mind."
Jenny: Hmm.
Kristin: "At what point in the sale of a house can a previously-invited-in vampire no longer enter? When does it reset? I decided to think about this as a fun, hypothetical practice question in the process of my studying. While I think the best answer is what you said, at closing, I also think an argument could be made that a vampire can no longer come inside in the gap period, or executory-ex-ecu-tory period-[Jenny laughs] between the signing of the sales contract and the closing. The doctrine of equitable conversion says that at the moment the sales contract is signed, the purchaser attains a real property interest in the property in the form of equitable title and the seller now only has a personal property interest." Stacy goes on to say, "There's very likely someone much more qualified than I am to answer this question, [Jenny laughs] but it was fun to muse about and made my studying more enjoyable." I love this.
Jenny: Well, I'm glad there's somebody out there more qualified than us, and equally interested in this question.
Kristin: Uh-huh.
Jenny: Thanks, Stacy. Thank you so much for taking the time to muse and then write in.
Kristin: This is just, like, my favorite nerd shit. Like, if Jenny and I ever write a book, it's just gonna be like-it's gonna be called-the title of the book is gonna be called, Our Favorite Nerd Shit. [laughing] And it's just gonna be a compilation [both laugh] of all of these incredible things that we've uncovered in our time together.
Jenny: Hell yeah.
Kristin: So Stacy, thank you. We are going-we are doing our damnedest to bring you a mailbag. We're hopefully gonna have a mailbag for you in late May or early June. And you know, you can send in an email if you want, to bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com. But I will tell you that I have approximately 370 of them [laughs] in the bin already. So…[both laugh]
Jenny: Yeah…
Kristin: Send them away, but we might not read them aloud on air until we are 72 years old.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Sorry, 72 and 71. Generational gap.
Jenny: Mm! That's right, that's right.
Kristin: Yeah. Alright. Jenny, let's talk about some…meat?
Jenny: Y-y-yes!
NOTES: [Kristin laughs] [Buffering theme song plays]
Jenny: Hello and welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast where we are watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, one by one, spoiler-free, in tandem with Angel On Top. I…am the ghost of Christmas past, I'm Jenny Owen Youngs!
Kristin: [laughs] I guess that makes me the ghost of Christmas future? Kristin Russo?
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: No one can be in the present here, that's for damn sure.
Jenny: No.
Kristin: Yeah, hey. So this week, we're gonna be talking about a little episode you may have heard of. It's called Season 6, Episode 12, Doublemeat Palace. I just realized, in the reading of that, that twelve is the double of six. So this episode
NOTES: [Jenny gasps] has doubles all around. [laughs]
Jenny: [makes sound effect from Psycho]
Kristin: Math nerds, you're welcome. Oh, yeah, let's play that sweet Hellmath jingle right up at the goddamn top.
NOTES: [HELLMATH jingle plays] Hellmath!
Kristin: Stay tuned at the end of this podcast every other week for an original song, written by us-or sometimes Jenny. Jenny, you've been writing more and more these days. You just keep knocking them right out of the park.
Jenny: Mmm!
Kristin: Recapping the Buffy episode we are discussing. Do you remember that song? That, like, McDonalds song that was like, "two all-beef patties…"
Jenny: Hell yeah.
Kristin: Do you remember how it went?
Jenny: I have the-I have the flexi disc.
Kristin: Oh my god, that's right!
Jenny: Because they…it was a long list of ingredients, dear listener. And-
Kristin: Hold on, I'm gonna look it up.
Jenny: [simultaneously] It was in a very specific order. Everything that went into the burger. And there was a frigging contest where you would get, in the newspaper, a flexi 7-inch record, with this jingle on it. And if you got a copy of it that sang successfully all the way through, you won something. Most of them-you know, the person doing the jingle would, like, get tongue-tied and be like, "whoops!" But if you got the one that got all the way through with no mess-ups, you won. A prize I can't recall.
Kristin: "Two all beef patties, special sauce, lettuce, cheese, pickles, onions on a sesame seed bun."
Jenny: Just seems very simple.
NOTES: [McDonalds jingle plays] Two all beef patties, special sauce, lettuce, cheese, pickles, onions on a sesame seed bun. Say that again! Two all beef patties, special sauce, lettuce, cheese, pickles, onions on a sesame seed bun. [man speaking] "Two all beef patties, special sauce, lettuce, cheese, pickles-pickles, onions on a-"
Jenny: Doublemeat Palace was written by Jane Espenson and directed by Nick Marck, [Kristin laughs] king of consonants.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And originally aired on January 29th, 2002, which just to mention, was like, three weeks after the last episode, which had just come after a long holiday break.
Kristin: Hey, this-I didn't even look up the "this is the one for." I didn't even do it, you know why? This is the one where Buffy works at Doublemeat Fal-oh, there-that-that-
Jenny: Doublemeat Phallus. [Kristin laughs] A little Freud-Dr. Freud calling!
Kristin: Yeah, that was-I mean, I literally was going to say, this is the one where Buffy works at the Doublemeat Palace and there's a penis monster. And I just figured-my brain did the math for me on that-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And figured out how to say it all at once. This is the one where Buffy…works at Doublemeat Phallus.
Jenny: It sure is.
Kristin: So-
Jenny: [laughing] It sure fucking is, Kristin. [Kristin laughs] Yo. Just a very brief aside slash recommendation. Sweethearts Charly Bliss, perhaps you've heard of them-
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: They're a ripping band.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Have a video-a music video that they made for their song "Scare You," that was based on Doublemeat Palace.
Kristin: Hot!
Jenny: They've got the little uniforms. There's a-you know, [spooky voice] a lurking darkness that must be contended with and-
Kristin: A wig lady?
Jenny: Mm, is there a wig lady? I'm not sure. But there are definitely burgers and stripes. [Kristin laughs] So check that out.
Kristin: Also, I don't know if you know this, but two hosts of a very popular Buffy the Vampire Slayer podcast dressed up this past Halloween as employees of the Doublemeat Palace. So.
Jenny: Whomst?! [Kristin laughs] It's true.
Kristin: Where to begin, really? I mean-
Jenny: Well-
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Can we begin by saying that Nick Marck directed this, and I found this episode to be really unique in the Buffyverse. It just feels very different to me. So I was curious and I looked up the other episodes so far that Nick Marck has directed. And they are Something Blue, Fool for Love-
Kristin: Mm.
Jenny: Checkpoint-
Kristin: Mm.
Jenny: And Life Serial.
Kristin: Oh, wow.
Jenny: Some heavy-hitting-
Kristin: You know, like, really-like, really segmented. At least, that's-I didn't-I don't have enough in my brain to, like, do a proper analysis of all those episodes. But like, Life Serial, isn't that the one where she, like, tries on many career hats? And, like, it just seems like there's a sort of-
Jenny: That's right.
Kristin: Segmentation to the arc.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah. And if you look at Checkpoint-
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: You've got kind of everybody getting split up, questioned-
Kristin: Right. Right.
Jenny: By the Council. You know.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: I don't know. But there's something-
Kristin: It's almost like Nick Marck likes to keep his cow and his chicken separate.
Jenny: It's like I always say, Kristin! [Kristin laughs] Cow in the sheets-
Kristin: Chicken in the sheets?
Jenny: [simultaneously] Chicken in the streets.
Kristin: Oh, your cow in the sheets? You started with sheets?
Jenny: Hmm. [Kristin laughs] No. Chicken in the sheet-no. Cow in the streets, chicken in the sheets! [makes tongue-lolling sound] [both laugh]
Kristin: Gotta go!
Jenny: [simultaneously] How's that? Is that good? So this episode is way more of a horror piece than anything we've seen-
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: In a very long time.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: The score is really, really specific…I feel like-
Kristin: Ooh, you just made me think of Der Kindestod, 'cause that was, like, a real horror-
Jenny: Ahhh! [Kristin laughs] Never speak of Der Kindestod!
Kristin: [laughs] We, um-yeah, I mean, there's a lot of, like-and we'll get to these scenes. But there's a lot of, like, exterior night shots of, like, the outside of Doublemeat Palace. Which gives it that, like-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Horror feeling and yeah, fully, fully.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: I know on-
Jenny: [simultaneously] Such a creepy score. So many long, staring, mesmerized shots of various people. It's a whole…
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Thing. Okay.
Kristin: Yeah, yeah, that's true. So yeah, we'll get into…I mean, there's so much to get into in this episode. At first, we considered, like, do we need a double episode for Doublemeat? But then we were like, calm down, Kristin and Jenny. Really, calm down, Kristin.
Jenny: One meat is enough!
Kristin: [laughing] One meat is enough.
Jenny: Two meats, one episode.
Kristin: So if there's-if one of us is the cow and the other is the chicken, who's which?
Jenny: Uh, so difficult to choose between vegetables-
Kristin: Vegetable cow.
Jenny: Seasoned-rendered with beef fat or-?
Kristin: Beyond-yeah, it's-who's the Beyond Beef and who's the Beyond Chicken? [laughs] Anyway, listen. The important thing that I wanted to say is that there's-there's conversation around minimum wage in this episode. There's conversation around class in this episode. The biggest thing and the center of it all is Doublemeat Palace and the fast food industry. This episode aired in 2002. Fast Food Nation the movie came out, I believe, in 2002 or 3, a little later. But the book Fast Food Nation came out in 2001 and that author of that book had been writ-like, it was based on articles that he was writing in '99. The thesis statement, I guess, of Fast Food Nation is, wow, this is fucked up. And wow, we are marketing-like, really marketing these fast food products to children, in a heavy handed way. And a lot of other things, which we can get into, if you're not familiar with Fast Food Nation. But yeah. Marketing shitty food to children. America.
Jenny: Yeah, speaking of children. [Kristin laughs] Sarah Michelle Gellar actually appeared in a Burger King commercial, as a child. Right?
Kristin: Mmhmm. She's, like, six. Or five. She's so little.
NOTES: [Commercial plays]
Sarah Michelle Gellar: When I order a regular burger at McDonalds, they make it with 20% less meat than Burger King. Unbelievable! Luckily, I know a perfect way to show McDonalds how I feel. I go to Burger King! [people singing] "Aren't you hungry for Burger King now?"
Jenny: Wasn't there a whole thing where she was, like, soft banned from McDonalds?
Kristin: I looked it up. It's-that's not true. It's a false rumor.
Jenny: So-
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Ah.
Kristin: Here to dispel rumors. Sarah Michelle Gellar was not banned from McDonalds, but when she was a kid, she didn't-you know, all of her friends were going to McDonalds. And she didn't really wanna go because she felt weird, 'cause she thought maybe somebody would recognize her. So she said, like, she would wear, like, sunglasses and a hood or a hat, when she was little.
Jenny: A little trenchcoat.
Kristin: Yeah, like, you-
Jenny: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. She'd hide in the shadows with her little notebook.
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah.
Jenny: Peering from behind a phonebooth outside of McDonalds.
Kristin: But the rumor is rooted, Jenny, in a place of-Burger King, that commercial, it was one of the first times that, like, one fast food company called out another fast food company by name.
Jenny: Ah.
Kristin: And so McDonalds did sue Burger King.
Jenny: Oooh! Spicy.
Kristin: So it was, like, a whole big deal. But they did not ban a six-year-old from McDonalds. [laughs] That part is false.
Jenny: Okay. Cool. We also-just for, like, time period context-we also know, like, Supersize Me-
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: Would come out two years from this point. So basically, I think the takeaway is, people are starting to think about fast food differently. Attitudes are beginning to change. Now, it's interesting that you referred to fast food as shitty. And it's interesting to me for two reasons.
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: Right? Now, I'm gonna guess that you are coming from a sodium, [Kristin laughs] saturated fat kind of vantage point?
Kristin: Yeah, yeah-well, I didn't even mean, necessarily-yeah. I meant chemicals. I meant, like, taking chemicals to make cheaper versions of food to serve to people-
Jenny: Sure.
Kristin: So that you can make more money and make it faster-
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Make it accessible to people with lower incomes. I mean, I think, you know-
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Jenny and I were talking, before we got on mic, about how-like, we were not two people raised on fast-well, I don't think you were raised on fast food. But I know that fast food was a massive part of my childhood. I always preferred McDonalds over Burger King, personally, but…
Jenny: Yeah, I mean. That's-
Kristin: The prize.
Jenny: I don't wanna rile anyone up, but that is the correct opinion. [laughs] The other reason that it disturbs me-or one of the reasons that it disturbs me, that you referred to fast food as shitty food, is that McDonalds is…delicious. [both laugh]
Kristin: Right. Well, listen. No one is here to say that fast food doesn't taste incredible. It does. And-and, like, you're right.
Jenny: But at what cost?
Kristin: But at what cost? And that was-that's the focus of Fast Food Nation, really, that's the focus of so many-
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Of these-Supersize Me and examinations of fast food culture-was the reckoning with the fact that, like, oh, when you take-when you actually, like, take the meat out of the meat and use chemicals instead so that you can be, like, quote, "more efficient" and quote, "cheaper" and quote-all these other things. Your body actually will recognize that and will be upset. Your body will not like it. [both laugh]
Jenny: Okay. I think we should start talking about Buffy the Vampire Slayer now.
NOTES: [both laugh]
Kristin: Okay. Previously On, who cares. Fuck you, Spike-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Nemeses-es-es. We get Amy the rat, we get the car crash. We go all the way back to the beginning of the season with money issues. And it ends-this is important. The Previously On ends with Giles saying, "So what are you gonna do with your life?" Reminding us all that we're so mad at Giles and everyone else for the premise of this episode. Out of the gates.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: What the fuck?
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah.
Kristin: This is the one vampire slayer in the world. Why is she not getting paid? To Anya's point.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Anya was compensated fairly-
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah.
Kristin: For her job as a vengeance demon. It seems like demons have an exchange system, some kind of barter system. They are surviving off of their skills as demons. So just a general what the fuck.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah. We open on Willow explaining to Xander and Anya, so that we can learn, what happened after the end of last week's episode. [both laugh] Willow is getting all horned up, talking about various magical items. Then Xander is getting all horned up, hearing about a poster of a Vulcan lady. [Kristin laughs] And as you mentioned, Anya goes on her capitalist rant against super villains and declares that workers are the tools that shape America. Blegh!
Kristin: A beautiful, beautiful Jane Espenson line turn on that, where Buffy then shows up in her fucking Doublemeat Palace uniform. "I was feeling like a tool. [laughs] So that makes sense."
Jenny: Yeah, this is a bad uniform.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: This uniform seems custom-engineered to look as bad as possible.
Kristin: Yeah. I think it's so bad that it's great, actually.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: Fantastic. You know, something that I wanted to talk about. You mentioned Xander with the Vulcan women on the Enterprise. I don't really have, like, anything massive to say. But I was just thinking about how it is interesting that the show gives us these places of direct overlap between the trio and Xander. You know? It's like, their interests are identical. And-
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: One could take some of Xander's previous behaviors as a human man and overlap them quite tidily with these guys.
Jenny: Oh, yeah. Okay, time for a training video.
NOTES: [Clip from episode plays]
Narrator: You've seen us in your city or small town across the American West. You've ordered our delicious food from our happy employees! But now you're seeing it all from a different way, you're seeing it from behind the counter, because you've just become part of the DoubleMeat experience!
Jenny: Dude. What happens when a cow and a chicken get together? [both laugh]
Kristin: Sarah Michelle Gellar-
Jenny: [laughing] Wouldn't you like to know, my friend? [Kristin laughs] Fucking come on down to the barnyard. 1080P HD.
Kristin: Oh my god. Sarah Michelle Gellar, always incredible, but just does an incredible job in this episode with her, like, "holy crap," watching this, like, horrible training video that includes-
Jenny: Why would you ever make a video this graphic?
Kristin: Again, I think to make a point. I think they really-the fast food chain doth protest too much. You know? They're going too hard on the "we use cows and chickens, see?" Because they don't use cows or chickens. I mean, they use a little bit of cow. A tiny-a dash of cow.
Jenny: I…[sighs] yeah…[laughs]
Kristin: Buffy says that the chicken and the cow go together like Meg and Tom in Sleepless in Seattle. I love that she uses the actors' names in Sleepless in Seattle, "but less minced." Nice. [both laugh]
Jenny: We meet Manny the Manager, it's not a joke, it's just my name. [Kristin laughs] Oh, poor Manny. Poor Manny!
Kristin: Ohh.
Jenny: How many times has he…had to say this?
Kristin: He does a great job. Brent Hinkley is this actor's name. He was in Silence of the Lambs and Ed Wood, amongst many other things. But he fucking rules.
Jenny: Yeah, he does such a great job.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: He asks Buffy why she wanted this job. And she starts to answer very honestly [Kristin laughs] and Manny's face makes it clear that that is not what he's looking for.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: So instead she says, she wanted to be a part of the Doublemeat experience. [Kristin laughs] I'd like to be-be a part of the Doublemeat experience, 1080P HD. [laughs]
Kristin: Oh my god, gross. So yeah, yeah, she makes-
Jenny: I mean…
Kristin: She makes the point a couple of times in this episode that she can't-she doesn't have the time left anymore to, like, go through an interview process, of like, getting her resume in order or go through, like, a large training process. Like, she needs to be able to be hired, start working and get money immediately.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: A lot-a lot happening here. There's some privilege that is probably obvious to those of you listening to this podcast, that she has the option to get other jobs but she's just choosing this one. Privilege that does not exist for everybody. Shall we go to the locker room and meet some lifers?
Jenny: Let's do it. This is where the score really starts to fucking kick off. It sounds so good.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Have you ever met someone who wouldn't turn around to look at you?
Kristin: Actually, yeah, I think I have. [both laugh]
Jenny: Blegh!
Kristin: Yeah. These guys-so Phillip-I don't know what the other one's name is. But Phillip I know because we spend some time with him, flipping burgers, later. He's amazing. This guy is-I found out this guy is most known for his role on Mack MacDade's-one of her favorite shows, Sons of Anarchy. Douglas Bennett playing Phillip. And…yeah, they don't-they don't really care about this new employee. Because why should they? They meet new employees all the time and they come and they go.
Jenny: Uh-huh. Yep, yep.
Kristin: High turnover, et cetera.
Jenny: Buffy clocks in for the first time.
Kristin: Ugh!
Jenny: And it's 9:30 in the morning and there is no breakfast in sight at this establishment. Can you explain this to me?
Kristin: Oh, like, why are there no egg sandwiches? Why are there no McGriddles?
Jenny: Well, just-or why are they open? [both laugh] At 9:30? If they don't have breakfast, why are they open?
Kristin: Well, they have cherry pie. And coffee.
Jenny: Yeah…okay…
Kristin: I thought you were gonna get really excited about the punch clock. And I was going to ask you, Jenny, if you have punched a clock in your career.
Jenny: Yeah, of course I have-
Kristin: Me too.
Jenny: And you know, even as recently as my last non-musician job. I had one of those ancient time clocks that I would punch into and out of.
Kristin: They're so satisfying. Like, I'm all for-
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: More efficient ways of, like, whatever. But I fucking would love a punch clock. I-you know what? I'm gonna get myself a punch clock. It'll be very scary to actually punch in and out of this particular job that I have, [laughs] podcasting. Maybe I shouldn't examine how many hours-
Jenny: You can clock in but you can't clock out! [Kristin laughs] The calls are coming from inside the fryer.
Kristin: We go-[laughs] we go to the beating heart of Doublemeat Palace, the kitchen. Get some of our first-I refer to it later as "meat art." I feel like there's a lot of very artistic, cinematic techniques taken with the meat and the slicing and dicing of meat-
Jenny: Yep.
Kristin: In this episode.
Jenny: Yep.
Kristin: Here, we get the identical chicken slices.
Jenny: Dude. That's the dehydrated pickle storage.
Kristin: Fuck yeah!
Jenny: Why…is there a dehydrated pickle storage?
Kristin: Probably because-
Jenny: Why is it a bucket that has written in Sharpie [both laughing] "dehydrated pickles"? And then-and then! If you were a new employee somewhere, why would you just roll up to a locked filing cabinet and pull on the drawers?
Kristin: Because this bitch has been the Slayer for fucking years! She doesn't understand the proper behavior-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: In a fucking workplace of any kind.
Jenny: [simultaneously] I'll say!
Kristin: She literally breaks into things-just like, that's part of her job is to, like-
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Break down doors. So that's why. To go back to your dehydrated pickle question, I-I don't know why they've taped the bucket. But I assume so that nobody confuses it with something else. [laughs] And I would assume that these pickles are dehydrated so that they have a longer shelf life.
Jenny: Alright, alright, alright, alright, alright.
Kristin: I love the-I love the dehydrated pickle…gag. Like, I love the fucking clip of Manny, like, dunking pickle by pickle into water to, like, rehydrate them. [laughs] It's just good, it's good.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: Anyway. Manny, creepy as fuck, unwraps this goddamn burger and is like-
Jenny: Blegh!
Kristin: "Eat it." [laughs] And-
Jenny: I hate this.
Kristin: Yeah, it's pretty bad. Buffy is like, "uh, I just finished watching that fucking video. I don't know if I…" And then she eats it anyway, 'cause she knows that that is what she needs to do. And she says-
Jenny: No.
Kristin: [laughing] "So what is your secret ingredient?" And we begin-
Jenny: It's a meat…process.
Kristin: The long-running, unknown meat process. That is, like, direct-I mean, I don't even need to say it. But like, this is directly what we get at fast food restaurants across the country, is like, so what does that mean? Like, what do these words mean? "Well, it's a process that the meat goes through." Okay. [both laugh]
Jenny: Thank you for clarifying.
Kristin: Yeah. A lot of great acting done with full mouths in this episode. Like, it starts with them popcorn-
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: In the beginning. Then we have a lot of Xan-Nick Brendon does an incredible job in this episode, with his fucking burger face acting. And Sarah Michelle Gellar too. Her, like, all I have to use is, like, my stuffed cheeks and my eyeballs. Great work.
Jenny: Yeah. Admirable. Bravo and brava. We learn that levity is the time thief that picks the pocket of the company! [Kristin laughs] Which I love.
Kristin: Yeah. It's good.
Jenny: Just as a sentence-it's a nice, satisfying sentence.
Kristin: Yeah, I looked it up. I thought maybe it was, like, a quote from somewhere else. But when I looked it up, I got all Doublemeat Palace, all the time. [laughs]
Jenny: Nice. A little register training, a little Buffy bonding with fellow employee, Gary, who seems like a good time.
Kristin: Yeah. RIP, Gary.
Jenny: We meet the pie lady!
Kristin: Yo, so-I will say, I finished watching Twin Peaks. I've watched all of it now, but I was delighted to find out that Wig Lady got what I refer to in my notesas the Twin Peaks special: cherry pie and a coffee.
Jenny: Oh, wow, yes, correct. [laughs]
Kristin: Right? [Jenny laughs] Maybe that penis monster was Bob all along.
Jenny: Um…
Kristin: I mean, it kinda checks out. Okay, so we get button palooza. I can't ever allow us to go past a "palooza"-
Jenny: Sure.
Kristin: You know, line smash. So button palooza is said, and Wig Lady says to Buffy, "I can see you here…for a long time." Which is a lie, because she knows she's gonna fucking paralyze her and then eat her later.
Jenny: Yeah. Well. [Kristin laughs] Okay, so the family that rolls up after Pie Lady?
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: They order a bunch of stuff but one thing that they order is "fisherman's medley with bacon." [Kristin gasps] Okay, so is that a fish patty-
Kristin: No.
Jenny: A slice of processed chicken-
Kristin: No!
Jenny: And bacon?
Kristin: No!
Jenny: Or is it a fish patty, beef and bacon?
Kristin: No! None of it.
Jenny: Or something else?
Kristin: Stop it.
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah, I know.
Kristin: Oh!
Jenny: Look, I don't like it any more than you do.
Kristin: Why did you do this? I didn't hear it. I didn't hear it-
Jenny: I know.
Kristin: And I never wanna hear it. Take it back. At least we know that at the end of the day, it's all just vegetables on vegetables. Then there's, like, some quick shots. Buffy sadly eating a burger on her lunch break. [both laugh]
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Her second burger of the day.
Jenny: Oof.
Kristin: She goes to the freezer, 'cause she's still, like, Detective Buffy'ing all about the place. [laughs] Curiosity killed the cat.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Manny's like, "You don't need to go in there!"
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah. So the first theory, although she says it's the fifth. We don't find out what her first four theories were, but her fifth theory-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Is that this is-these are cat burgers. And then, surprise. Her friends visit her at work. This is-this, like, stirred up memories of mine of, like, when your friends would visit you at work. It was like, joyous but also uncomfortable. Like, it's not-it's not-you can't really interact with your friends in any kind of appropriate way-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: When you're at your job.
Jenny: Yeah, I feel all those feelings. And also, I feel like I've been watching a ton of stuff lately where people are showing up to people's work-
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: To be like, I have to have a serious conversation with you. We need to break up. Or this monster is back. [Kristin laughs] Or here's the dirt I dug up-and it's like, they're at work!
Kristin: They're at work. And, like-
Jenny: Just wait four hours and don't do it in their place of work!
Kristin: And to add insult to injury, Xander then gets a free burger out of the deal. Like, not only-
Jenny: Boo!
Kristin: Not only have you taken her away-and it's her first day. Listen, if you're gonna go visit your friend on their job site, don't do it on their first day! That's-
Jenny: Don't do it on their first day. Don't accept a free lunch. Xander, go home.
Kristin: Yeah. These are-Xander-and Xander should know better. And Xander has a line in here that I think is really important, 'cause he says, like, "I have swum these murky waters, my friend" when they're talking-
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: 'Cause you know, Buffy's confused. She's like, everybody's kinda acting funny and they stare into the middle distance. And Xander's like, yeah, dude. It's called fucking working at a minimum wage, fast food fucking restaurant. This is what it looks like. And I liked that, because I did feel like-you know, I briefly said, like, well, Buffy has this privilege where she can get another job. And it's not that Xander doesn't, but I do think that class-wise, Xander is very much more a character whose class in the show aligns with minimum wage, fast food work. And so I like that they gave him that knowledge, of like, yeah, dude, I worked here. I've already done this. [laughs] I've been here.
Jenny: Yeah. We also see Willow fiddling with straws.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: And Buffy's like, wait-but just wait until you get a load of Manny the manager. And they say, isn't that him over there? [Kristin laughs] Getting the pickles wet? He's holding a silver scoop, drizzling water [Kristin laughs] onto pickles. And our attention is directed to Chekov's saddle shoes, so that later in the episode, we'll easily be able to identify a disembodied foot.
Kristin: Oh my god, which Buffy carries around for so long. [both laugh]
Jenny: Blegh!
Kristin: She carries that foot around for so long. Yes, thank you for Chekov's foot, Jenny. I just had a memory of the fact that I used to work at the Olive Garden. I've worked at many-I've not worked fast food, but I've worked at the mall for a long time. I've worked at TGI Fridays, Olive Garden, you know, you can probably fill in all the blanks, based on that beginning. [laughs] But when I worked at the Olive Garden, I was a salad maker some of the time, so I would be back in the kitchen. And Olive Garden salads are pretty good, and one of the things that I would have to do is keep the salad-like, where I pulled the ingredients from, I would have to keep it stocked. And they were these massive packages of, like, olives and whatever. The pepperoncini package was, like, the size of half of my body. And I would have to cut, like, a corner and it was all in liquid. And I would have to cut the corner of it and then dump it over into this, like, massive drain in the floor and then take the pepperoncinis out from there.
Jenny: Uh-bl-um…
Kristin: I know you didn't ask for that story, but I would go home smelling like a pepperoncini.
Jenny: Hmmm.
Kristin: Anyway.
Jenny: [gags a little] [clears throat] Anya says, Xander, if you like the food here, we should get it for the reception. Dawn is really into that idea. [laughs] And then Anya, like, very, very obliviously is lamenting-you know, is like, ugh, I thought Willow was gonna be, like, a huge help with all the wedding planning. But then she had to go and give up magic and inconvenience me. No, Anya.
Kristin: I'm like-I'm not even-I'm sorry, I'm not even gonna give Anya obliviously on this one. You know? Like, I often will give Anya that she's just being honest and she's just being to the point. But this scene-this moment with her, it doesn't feel completely like that.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: It feels like she is aware of the impact that her language will have and she's just mad on her own behalf, and chooses to say it anyway.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: Which isn't quite your regular Anya-ism.
Jenny: Rude.
Kristin: So yeah, not cool. And she makes a comment about, like, Willow being so sensitive. So sensitive, that one. You know, it's like, this fucking girl is literally, like, [Jenny tsks] three days worth of recovery at this point. So fucking Anya, no.
Jenny: No. Buffy hands Xander his Doublemeat Medley and this fucking animal can't even, like, take one second or step away from-he immediately rips the wrapped off-
Kristin: At the register.
Jenny: The burger and bites into it while he's still standing there. Are you okay, dude?
Kristin: I'm not. I'm personally not okay.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Nighttime at what I've begun, in my notes, referring to as the DM. Not to be confused with the DQ.
Jenny: I mean, the DMP, if you don't mind. Not to be confused with the DMB. [both laugh]
Kristin: I don't mind. [Jenny laughs] Buffy has been there for, we are to assume, near to eight hours at this point, 'cause that is the shift length. So Buffy wants to take a second break. A reasonable request and also, a very legitimate denial of said request, because that is not allowed here.
Jenny: Downtime robs us all.
Kristin: Exactly. And Spike has spent a minimum of three hours getting himself dolled up for this fucking visit.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: He has brought out a necklace?
Jenny: [simultaneously] He looks like he's going to…the club?
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah.
Jenny: What is that shirt?
Kristin: I don't know! It's like…very tight and kind of-not patterned, but like, there's like, threads of many colors in it, with a chain necklace. He is coiffed. He is, like-like, did he know that-
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: The fluorescent lights were gonna, like, do something-'cause I think he would have looked better, to be honest with you, in the fluorescent lighting if he had just stuck with his normal Spike all black. But…
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah, but for some reason…this is happening. Uh, he says, "Service me."
Kristin: Yeah, gross. Gross, gross, gross. And he then-then they spar verbally, with him being like, ugh, do the fluorescent lights make you twitch like some other demons? And she's like, I'm not a demon. And we're like, okay, guys. We've been having this fight. We've been circling this fight-[laughs]
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: For a few episodes. But I guess, you know, when you need to figure out what your foreplay is gonna be to fuck next to a dumpster, then…this is what it looks like.
Jenny: Hell yeah.
Kristin: So Spike says, "Buffy, you're not happy here." That is true, that is a true fact. He says, "Buffy, you don't belong here." We can all agree with this from the vantage point of, she does not belong here because she is the motherfucking Slayer and she has really important shit to be doing. And she should be paid for that work, so she should not belong here.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: But then Spike gives us a window into some of his classism by saying, "You're better than this." He thinks she doesn't belong there because she's too good to work at this fast food restaurant. So, this is a classist remark. I'm going to call for the White Supremacy jingle, though this is a nuanced-right? This is nuanced, 'cause this is classism. But I think it all intersects.
NOTES: [WHITE SUPREMACY jingle plays] You know what that sounds like to me? (What?) White supremacy! (Oh no) Woven in not too subtly (Ugh) White supremacy! (Uh-uh) Open your eyes and that's where you'll find it Crush that (squash that) White supremacy!
Jenny: This is not a great look on Spike.
Kristin: Mm-mm.
Jenny: But what-to his credit, he does something that fucking Giles never did!
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: Which is to say, "I can get money."
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: "I can help you."
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: Of course, we know he's gonna do it by means that, you know, Buffy would not approve of and could never accept.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Some kittens may have to die. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah. Somebody might have to die, including kittens. [Kristin laughs] But…but this is better than-
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Her father figure did.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: And we can appreciate it, with a grain of salt.
Kristin: And like, you know. Not to take us, like, totally off-course chronologically here, but the fact that, like, later in this episode, Dawn and Xander are having a conversation. And Xander's like, well, I guess you could get a job and support her. It's like, yes, everyone! Yes, everyone. How are you sitting around, listening to Anya with the truth of "she should be getting paid for this." Spike understands that Buffy should be fucking getting paid in some way, shape or form. And Xander's aware enough to make a joke about Dawn-I don't think Dawn should support Buffy, right now. But the concept that they are a team-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Of fucking Scoobies. And she's the one who has to go out and fucking kill the vampires. Yes, you should be fucking pitching in to help her survive! [laughs] The Council should be paying her, but they're not. So yes, fucking contribute! Ugh!
Jenny: Please.
Kristin: [sighs] Anyway, RIP, Gary. He dies in the alley.
Jenny: RIP, Gary. [Kristin laughs] We hardly knew you.
Kristin: Ugh. 9 AM. "You came back," says this lifer. "Yes, I did." There's a box-there's a box above the fucking time stamp clock that just says "gone."
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Which incidentally was the name of the last episode. [both laugh] But is there, I guess, to just collect all of the cards from people who leave, who don't show up again.
Jenny: [sighs] That's, um-I mean, that's not a good sign. [laughs]
Kristin: No, it's not. Manny seems completely unconcerned, though, and he's like, hey. Guess what? We're short on staff because this person and this person didn't show up. So you're on grill.
Jenny: I don't like it.
Kristin: [laughs] Well, Buffy is like, I don't know to gr-first of all. Buffy's like, I don't know how to grill. And Manny has a great line, which I-it must be great, 'cause I didn't even write it in my notes and I still remember is-[laughing] where he's, like, so proud. And he's like, "That is the last time you will ever be able to say that." [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah.
Kristin: He's like, so excited-
Jenny: I mean-
Kristin: That she's gonna learn how to grill. So she goes to the grill with Phillip. I'm just gonna give us a tiny sound clip of Phillip here, because I really love him. I love-I love him.
NOTES: [Clip from episode plays]
Phillip: You put the beef on the grill, hit the button, then it beeps. You flip the beef, hit the other button, then it beeps. You put it on the bun…there's not a button for that.
Kristin: So, Phillip doesn't do a great job of answering Buffy's next question, which is, "So what is the meat process?" [laughs] It's a process they do to the meat, he says.
Jenny: Hell yeah.
Kristin: Oh, he then runs down a list of places in which the grease remains upon his body.
Jenny: No. Actually, no.
Kristin: Skin, hair, eyelashes, nostrils, ears-[laughing] he says, "You wanna look inside my ears?" [Jenny laughs] Buffy's like, no, I'm good. I'm good.
Jenny: All set. All set.
Kristin: I'm okay. And then Manny breaks the good news. Buffy gets to do a double shift. Sixteen hours of Doublemeat Palace. Joy. That's a lot of hours.
Jenny: That's a lot of hours.
Kristin: That's a lot of fucking hours.
NOTES: [AD BREAK]
Jenny: Knock knock!
Kristin: [laughs] Your meat has arrived.
Jenny: Damnit, say "who's there?" [laughs]
Kristin: Oh, I'm sorry. Who's there?
Jenny: An enormous tray of ground meat covered in saran wrap!
Kristin: [laughing] An enormous tray of meat covered in saran wrap who?
Jenny: I-yeah…
Kristin: I mean, that's what you get. You told me to follow the rules. [laughs]
Jenny: Orange you glad I didn't say…ground fish?
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah, this is fun. I mean, there's a lot of, like, little fun-they could be-these missing employees could be anywhere! And then, like, the tray is thumped down.
Jenny: [simultaneously] [laughs] And then, meat.
Kristin: A human-sized amount of meat on the tray.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah.
Kristin: Then we get to my favorite part in this episode, and one of my favorite moments in the whole series, okay? Because we go to Xander and fucking Anya's apartment. Which is-
Jenny: Hell yeah.
Kristin: I would like to point out, really nice. They have, like, a great income. They're doing fine. [laughs] Why is no one helping Buffy? Okay. That's not the point. The point is that fucking Halfrek shows up, okay?
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Halfrek shows up and she has shown up because she thinks that someone has summoned her for vengeance, 'cause that's her job.
Jenny: Uh-huh, uh-huh. [laughs]
Kristin: And let's just hear-
Jenny: 'Cause that's her job.
Kristin: The moment that I love is the transition from that-her assumption of why she's there to her [laughing] realization of why she's actually there. So, here you go.
NOTES: [Clip from episode plays]
Halfrek: [resonant voice] Hello. I am here to tear this man apart. How many pieces do you wish?
Anya: Halfrek!
Halfrek: [normal voice] Anyanka? Oh my god! [both women squeal] Hey!
Anya: How are you, how are you?
Kristin: [laughing] "Anyanka?"
Jenny: [squeals]
Kristin: The squealing. The squealing of women about weddings is something that, like, I have actively tried to avoid my whole life, you know? 'Cause, like, this is a real thing. [laughs] I worked at a fucking hedge fund for a long time. Let me tell you that there was a lot of this fucking shit. Any time anybody got engaged and there was a ring and the one per-one lady saw the ring, then all the other ladies would come running. And I was one of those ladies and I would have to scream, just to feel like I fit in! [laughs]
Jenny: Uh-huh, uh-huh.
Kristin: But it's a true thing. And I just love it. I love-I just-I don't have anything smart to say, Jenny. I just love how-
Jenny: No, no, no.
Kristin: They go from-like, to one ex-vengeance demon, one current vengeance demon, ready to, like, tear Xander's large upper arms from his frame-to "oh my god!" [babbles]
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: "Let me see the ring!" A commentary.
Jenny: You know, the message got garbled. [Kristin laughs] Halfrek thought she was being summoned to carry out vengeance, but of course, Anya has just been trying to get in touch to invite her to the wedding! And oh my god, gorgeous! And oh my god, what an embarrassing mistake! [both laugh]
Kristin: So. Something that I wanted to ask you, Jenny, is…you were really observant about the things in Xander and Anya's bedroom in Once More, With Feeling.
Jenny: Mm.
Kristin: And I wondered if you noticed anything about their living room decor.
Jenny: I didn't notice anything, except if memory serves, I feel like they live in a very beige space.
Kristin: [laughs] It is very beige. Fifty shades of beige definitely applies here.
Jenny: Nice. So what's in there that I missed?
Kristin: Behind the couch, like, lit with a brass wall-mounted lamp as though a piece of art, is a peg board with all of Xander's tools hanging from it. [both laugh]
Jenny: Well, how else would you know that he is a construction-y contractor guy-
Kristin: I mean-
Jenny: If he didn't have all his tools on display in the living room?
Kristin: I just, like-I'm not even opposed to the idea. It's just such a choice, you know? It's like a real choice-
Jenny: Yeah. Big choice. Anya would never go for-well. Anya-
Kristin: But maybe they-
Jenny: The only way that she would-she could get into it is if it was for, like, a porn-y reason. You know?
Kristin: Ah! Fifty shades of beige indeed. [laughs]
Jenny: [simultaneously] You know, and that…could be real. You know-ugh!
Kristin: [simultaneously] Like, these are our sex tools? [laughs]
Jenny: I just desperately need my molding replaced! [Kristin laughs] And I can't possibly take another day of this dripping faucet! Who-
Kristin: Oh my gosh!
Jenny: Who can help me?
Kristin: You just found a whole second season for 1080P HGTV.
Jenny: Hell yes!
Kristin: [laughs] Wow. This series has such versatility.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Yeah. The Buffy and Spike season is them knocking everything down.
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah.
Jenny: And then, the-Season 2 is Anya getting Xander to fix stuff. [Kristin laughs] Nice.
Kristin: Anyway. If you didn't see it, go back and look. It's really a thing, it's really a fucking thing. I wrote in my notes, Xander then leaves, being a giant tool himself. [Jenny laughs] Because Xander's a fucking asshole to Anya in this whole exchange. I'll say a little more on it when we get to the Magic Box, but-
Jenny: Well, in his defense, a demon just showed up, threatening his life. So I could see why that might make him a little squirrely.
Kristin: Squirrely, fine. But his fucking future wife is an ex-vengeance demon and he's a fucking dick about it. So…
Jenny: Lack of understanding, for sure.
Kristin: Yeah, I'm pissed. He doesn't even ask-he doesn't even ask who fucking Hal-he doesn't even wanna get to know her. He doesn't care. He says she's ugly, basically. I'm pissed.
Jenny: Boo!
Kristin: I'm pissed about it. [laughs]
Jenny: I love Halfrek's "hmm's!"
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah.
Jenny: "Hmm!"
Kristin: [laughing] She's-like, I love-
Jenny: "Hmm!"
Kristin: I love Halfrek, but like, I feel like probably we all know somebody who…I would call this, passive aggression? Right? Like, some form of…
Jenny: Well, I think-the way that it reads to me, especially in their next exchange-
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: That we get to see, like, going at length. It feels like, you know, vengeance demon culture-
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: Is all centered around asking questions, trying to get somebody to say something-
Kristin: [gasps] Ooh!
Jenny: That you can then act on.
Kristin: Oooh!
Jenny: You know, she answers every question with a question and also, you know, we've come to assume that, like-we've gotten the very clear picture from Anya-
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: That she's just seen, like, a lot of failed relationships. So I think it makes sense that Halfrek would be, you know…skeptical?
Kristin: Ah.
Jenny: Maybe she wouldn't understand, like, the impulse to settle down with somebody.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: And also, she's so used to trying to get people to talk about the-
Kristin: I love that.
Jenny: Trying to give people the opportunity to unleash.
Kristin: I love that. I love that, because now that you say that, I'm thinking about Anya and, like-[laughs] I know there were some scenes where, like, Anya was just bored and she'd be like, but doesn't he-isn't there anything-? Like, trying to get somebody to, like, activate her. And so this is like, double jeopardy for Halfrek, because it's her friend, an ex-vengeance demon. Where she really-I mean, and that part, I did understand, that like, she really does not have the room to possibly understand Anya's decision to partner with a man.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Like, I don't even think it's about Xander. It's-like, I think she would be like this with any man.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: So-
Jenny: She's just like, what do you mean, love?
Kristin: [laughs] You're marrying a man-the exchange-I'm sorry. I know that you're not here for us to do reenactments of the scenes. Maybe you are. But like, her saying, "You're marrying that man with the large upper arms?" Anya saying, "Yes." Halfrek saying, "Why?" Anya saying, "I love him" and her going, "Hmm." [both laugh] It's just-it's good! It's really good.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Oh, god. So-
Jenny: Yeah, it's awesome. Uh, a little dumpster sex in the alley. Woo!
Kristin: Yeah. Not before the fryer boils on its own, you know what I mean? Just a fucking-
Jenny: I-well, nothing to get you in the mood like a little self-boiling oil. [both laugh]
Kristin: I'm upset-I'm upset about all of this. I don't…I don't…
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: I don't like it. I mean, I love-I love, you know, people having sex that they enjoy. I don't love, like, the desperate-this is, like, a desperation, I'm working a double shift, I need to distract my brain. It doesn't feel healthy, is really what I'm trying to say. [Jenny sighs] It feels very unhealthy back here. So.
Jenny: Buffy's like, [singing] "I touch the grease and it freezes me."
Kristin: [laughs] We go to-
Jenny: [singing] "I ride that dead dick, I don't care."
Kristin: Wow! We go to Willow's room. [Jenny laughs] You wanna keep going?
Jenny: [singing] "I fry the fries, who cares if I might die? [Kristin laughs] [pause] There's a cow on my hat!" I don't, um, remember what the rhyme scheme was, but there you go. [both laugh] What do you think?
Kristin: It was good, though. It's great. I think it's a hit.
Jenny: Thank you.
Kristin: [laughs] If you're-
Jenny: Okay, so-[laughs]
Kristin: If you're a patron of ours at the $10 level or higher and saw the first behind the scenes music-writing video that I posted, you'll know the face Jenny is making at me right now, which is like, the labrador so proud of itself for fetching the fucking tennis ball. [laughs]
Jenny: How fucking dare you? [clears throat] The skills that I have to deploy to fetch that particular tennis ball-
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: I have worked my whole life to build.
Kristin: That's true. I mean, hey, no insult to labradors. I think they work pretty hard too.
Jenny: Now I'm fucking mad because Amy shows up at Willow's house.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Buffy's house. Willow's room in Buffy's house. [Kristin laughs] And she says she wants the rat cage.
Kristin: Which is sad and, like-
Jenny: And then…she's poking, she's prodding, "this is what your life is gonna be like now?"
Kristin: [simultaneously] Yeah, she's being a jerk.
Jenny: "You're never gonna do magic, ever again? You're never gonna feel how that feels?" Blah-blah-blah. And then this fucking…jerk.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Gives Willow a quote, "birthday present." And then struts outta there. Amy is such a villain, out of freaking nowhere! I guess life as a rat, you could build up-
Kristin: Well, and Amy lets it slip this episode that she actually is holding resentment for how long Willow kept her as a rat, which I found very interesting. 'Cause we really haven't heard that, and we were pissed, too, on her behalf. But-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: I mean, I think that this is-you know, I would imagine that there is some truth to this in the metaphor that we have discussed. Right? That, like, Amy wants to be able to have fun with her friend again, the way that she wanted to have fun with her friend. Where it really falls apart for me is, so what does this mean? Like, "this is totally-it's magic that came from me, it's totally legal." I'm like, I don't under-you've lost me. I've lost the thread of what-[laughs] what is the magic? How is-what?
Jenny: I think the idea-I mean. Again, it's this, like, very messy metaphor territory, [both laugh] where it's sort of like, okay, I didn't buy the drugs. And I didn't even take the drugs on purpose. I was drugged and now I'm-what, you're just supposed to-that's supposed to be good? [laughs]
Kristin: I know. It's really fucking weird. It's really weird, and to that-I mean, to that end, I do think that-well, I'll talk about this-the scene later, when Amy comes to the door. Because I do think that there's some interesting parallels there, that relate to-so the metaphor is kind of, like, she was drugged. Because I think that's the only way to read this.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And…yeah. Willow is imbued with this magic that she didn't want, and it's really, really fucking shitty, I agree.
Jenny: [laughs] D-don't you just hate…[Kristin laughs] when you touch a vase and it splits on, like, six different lines and unfolds like a-
Kristin: Like a flower?
Jenny: Like a wilting flower.
Kristin: Yeah. [both laugh] It's a little…
Jenny: She also just touches a lamp and it evaporates.
Kristin: Evaporates. I did find a lot of humor in those two things, but I realized today, in my watch that I did before we talked, that later, when she goes to the Magic Box, the item that she touches is a pencil. And that's, like, the first thing that we ever see Willow using to understand-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: That she has magic. So that's just, like-I think, well done, writers. And-
Jenny: Yeah. Salute.
Kristin: Really, really sad that that's the journey of the pencil. It's really-it began in this, like, magical-little Willow on the lawn with her little legs up in the air. Like, spinning that pencil, so proud of herself.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And now, she's here and it's just, you know-we could talk about it for a while. But…[sighs] anyway. Let's go to-oh! Oh, my next note, great. "Meat art." We're back to more meat art. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Kristin: Cinematography game strong.
Jenny: Hypnotic grinding of meat, and a finger in the chuck. 1080P HD.
Kristin: Okay. You're-I'm calling it. You're out.
Jenny: This episode is rife.
Kristin: [simultaneously] I'm giving you-I'm giving you…I'm giving you…let's see here. [Jenny laughs] We're on Episode 12, which means we have…ten left in the season.
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: I'm giving you 16 uses of 1080P HD, [both laugh] to choose for the rest-
Jenny: [simultaneously] Okay. Just to be clear, 1080P HD and 1080P HGTV-
Kristin: Yes. Yes.
Jenny: Are two totally different things. Okay, cool.
Kristin: I agree. If you-if you validly can use "HGTV" in it, you get an extra. You get extras.
Jenny: With the vast array of meat in this episode, it's just-
Kristin: [simultaneously] You have used 1080P HD three times in this taping already. You're overusing-
Jenny: It's…
Kristin: [laughs] You're overusing your rights.
Jenny: Alright. Alright.
Kristin: [laughing] So…
Jenny: [sighs] Okay.
Kristin: Yeah, Buffy finds a fucking thumb. You know that feeling when you, like, find a thumb in a pile of ground meat and you're like, aw, I gotta run and show my younger sister this thumb immediately. [laughs]
Jenny: Well, first she's gotta show it to Manny the manager. And then make an enormous "Soylent Green is people" scene in the Doublemeat Palace, flinging trays off of booths. Screaming.
Kristin: A joy. Like, this had to be a joy to film. I would imagine-
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: That like, if your direction is, like, throw every single thing off of every table, that's fun. [laughs]
Jenny: Especially, like, you know. "It's people! Probably not the chicken-y part, but who knows? Who knows?!" [both laugh]
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Hell yeah.
Kristin: It's good. The wig lady is like, "But what about the cherry pie?" And then, Buffy gets fired.
Jenny: Fired Buffy.
Kristin: Before-'cause I know that Manny's about to die. Before Manny dies and we, like, enter into the penis monster section of the Doublemeat Palace narrative arc-
Jenny: [whines]
Kristin: I don't wanna go there either. I just wanna-I just want to give a special shout to whomstever, on the props department or in the art department, made all of the motivational posters for the Doublemeat Palace. Because they are-
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: Fucking amazing. And a lot of them have, like, ostriches, maybe? I think there's some ostrich presence. [Jenny laughs] And they say things like, "Teamwork" or "Dedication." But there's, like, just an ostrich standing there. Like, there's nothing in the image [Jenny laughs] whatsoever that signals the word that's put across the top of the poster. And I love it, and I-whoever-I know you're out there somewhere. You deserve the credit. You deserve credit for the genius of those posters, so thank you.
Jenny: Yeah, whoever you are, we salute you.
Kristin: [sighs] Okay. So we get the scene with Anya and Halfrek.
Jenny: Yep, yep. Quest-answering every question with a question. Great way to make people feel insecure. [laughs]
Kristin: Yeah. It really works. It will work on anyone. This trick will work on anyone.
Jenny: But also, there is a path here. There is an in where Anya's like, well, I'm not, you know, easy to love.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And Halfrek's like, oh, well, who told you that? And then Anya's like, oh, well, like, sometimes Xander has to, like, tell me that it's incorrect for me to appreciate money. Or-
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: You know, that here is how a human would behave. And Halfrek very craftily-
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Astutely is like, oh, so he corrects you?
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: And Anya is losing her footing, little bit by little bit. And she's like, do you think I'm making a mistake? And Halfrek is like, do you?
Kristin: [laughs] I literally have in my notes, all caps, "Do you?" [Jenny laughs] Yeah. And it's-I mean, you-at least, I understand where Anya is coming from in this moment. Because yeah, I mean, listen, first one to throw Xander under a bus sitting right here. It's this guy. But I also think that we've seen moments between the two of them where Anya has said things that have really hurt other people. I mean, she literally did it earlier in this episode. And Xander-so like, the Xander correcting Anya line is not as, like, straight as Halfrek would have us believe it-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: To be-have her believe it to be. Because there are moments when Anya really, genuinely does wanna understand, you know, how to be there for Buffy after her mom dies. Or like, how to-like, all these things. So it is complicated, I will give the situation that. [laughs] Do you?
Jenny: Yeah, yeah. Okay, so. [laughs] Cut to the Magic Box where Buffy has brought a Doublemeat Medley and a finger! A severed finger. And she's like, you know, we have to look at this burger, we gotta do science, we gotta examine it. Because we need to find out…if this burger is people! [Kristin laughs] And Xander, mouth full-[laughs] mouth completely full-has made the burger disappear and is like, "wha-! This burger?"
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah.
Jenny: Nick Brendon-all hail Nick Brendon's line delivery of "hot, delicious human flesh." [both laugh] It is good.
Kristin: I mean, this is, like, truly, like, award-winning material from Nick Brendon in this scene. He does an incredible job playing the "you just ate a burger in four seconds, and on second fucking five, you found out that burger was made of human." [laughing] Like, he really nails it.
Jenny: Mmhmm. Mmhmm.
Kristin: It's hysterical, it's so funny. Xander eats the evidence, is the note that I took. [both laugh] And yeah. Willow is like, hey, I can still-like, there's enough left on the wrapper, I can analyze what this is, using science, not magic, she's clear-
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm. Definitely science! Definitely nothing else! [Kristin laughs] Just totally science and never mind.
Kristin: Yes. And then, we already talked about the pencil and her hiding that. And another thing that I think is important in this scene is that at the very end, Dawn asks Willow if she's okay. Which is important, because really, the last we've seen of Willow and Dawn has been kind of rooted in Wrecked and Dawn feeling betrayed. And, you know-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: It's just a nice moment where she checks in on Willow. So.
Jenny: It is nice.
Kristin: Yeah. Buffy's-finds Manny's foot, in the next scene.
Jenny: Oh, no. Oh, no.
Kristin: There's your-what did you call it?
Jenny: Chekov's foot!
Kristin: Chekov's foot. There's your Chekov's foot, Jenny.
Jenny: Oh, wait. Or-sorry. Chekov's saddle shoe.
Kristin: Chekov's-[laughs] right, right, right. Chekov's saddle shoe.
Jenny: So while Buffy is finding this foot and then carrying it around for god knows how long, Dawn is talking to Xander about how Janice's sister is a lawyer and Buffy's never gonna be, quote, "anything big." And Xander's like, well, she's the Slayer. That's about as big as it gets. And Dawn is like, yeah but that means she'll always have minimum-wage jobs. I feel like this is a weird conclusion to draw? Like-
Kristin: I agree. I think that Buffy could probably do my job, and also be the Slayer.
Jenny: I mean, a forty-hour week is a forty-hour week.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Or you know, however you're living.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Like, there's no reason that Buffy couldn't-if she wanted to-
Kristin: Well, and the truth is that the work that is done by people making minimum wage is often forty times as difficult as the fucking work being done by, you know, like, my hedge fund manager, for example. [laughs] Like-
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah, and it's unclear what she's talking about here. Whether it's, like, difficulty or like, you know, the long-terminess of it…
Kristin: Or like, the nine-to-five-iness of it all. Mmhmm.
Jenny: Exactly, like, what are the hours? But-
Kristin: Right, right. It's vague and it's-I mean, I think, like-again, really the conversation that should be had is yes, Buffy is not going to be a lawyer. Buffy is not going to be a doctor. Buffy is not going to work at the mall, Buffy is not going to work at a fast food restaurant, Buffy is not going to be a waiter. Buffy is not going to do any of these things because Buffy is going to be the fucking Slayer. And the rest of you need to figure it out or demand money from the fucking Council. Figure it out.
Jenny: Yes. So Anya arrives and says, I'm here. Willow says, we're doing chemistry. Anya says, so sorry I hurried.
Kristin: [laughs] This is where Xander really ramps up his asshole-ishness. The first two things he asks Anya, when she walks in the door, is "Did she leave-did your friend leave?" and "Did you look like that, before?" Like, really fucking-
Jenny: Ooh, Xander.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Ooh!
Kristin: Xander. So just general, you know, fuck you, Xander. Be there for Anya. Engage with people that she's known in the past and ask questions about them. And appreciate all of the ways in which she's looked and stop talking about the veininess of Halfrek's face. Thank you. Oh, that's probably a great place to put the Patriarchy jingle. [laughs]
NOTES: [THE PATRIARCHY jingle plays] The patriarchy! [thunder clap, evil laughter]
Jenny: So. Willow's gonna look at the cells or whatever. Uh, she's gonna see them through the microscope! Definitely through the microscope and not with her naked, magical eyes. Anya is clearly hanging onto some of the stuff that Halfrek said. [both laugh] She says-she suggests that perhaps someone's killing demons and using them as a cheap source of meat. We've all heard about that, she says, and she says she's opposed!
Kristin: [simultaneously] Everyone's like, uh…[laughs]
Jenny: Opposed to that kind of activity, no matter how money it saves. Does that surprise you, Xander?!
Kristin: Wow, yeah. Yeah.
Jenny: And what does Willow see through the microscope? Well, she sees…cellulose! That's odd.
Kristin: Mmhmm. Mmm. It is. It's not humans at all, and it's seemingly not even meat.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Meanwhile, at the Doublemeat Palace, Buffy is walking around with her foot. And you know, like-
Jenny: No…
Kristin: I wonder if the, like-if they were so deliberate about the nonchalance with which she holds a thumb and a foot, just to, like, underline the fact that she's a Slayer in a fast food restaurant. [laughs] You know what I mean? Like-
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: Because it's funny. And then, a scene that we, I think, all wish we never, ever had to see. A scene which I know we had to watch multiple times, because it is our job. Wig Lady. "Is that what they call me?" she says, her wig, taken off. [Jenny laughs] Her head like an egg, as yet crack-
Jenny: [groans]
Kristin: Not cracked.
Jenny: [groans] Oh, there's a terrible penis snake monster inside her skull!
Kristin: It's a penis snake monster that, like, sprays liquid that makes you unable to move. [Jenny gags] And then slowly eats you! It's like, 40 feet long, sticking out of her skull! It's horrible. And just when you think that it couldn't get any worse, Willow shows up. And she's like-[laughs] talking through the drive-thru speaker. Which I feel like…probably needs to be activated from the inside-
Jenny: [simultaneously] Would be off. 'Cause it's closed.
Kristin: Well-right. But we'll let that slide. She's like, "Buffy, if you're in there, it's vegetables." And also, she confesses-confess isn't even the right word. She, like, is honest about what happened with Amy, which is important.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: It is immediately forgotten by all of us, I think-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Because then, my next notes are, all caps, "vomit, vomit, vomit, vomit."
Jenny: Uh…yeah. You know that thing where a penis snake monster is eating your shoulder? [gags]
Kristin: Yeah, and that thing where your, like, best friend comes in and uses, like, a fucking ax to chop the penis off of the-
Jenny: Hell yeah.
Kristin: Wig lady.
Jenny: And then put it in the grinder!
Kristin: And then puts it in the grinder and then you get the most unnecessary shot of the most disgusting things, ever, ever, ever. I mean, why? Why? Why?
Jenny: It's bad.
Kristin: No. I feel ill just talking about it and thinking about it. Let's move along. The monster is defeated. I hope never to speak of it again, although…spoilers, we probably will talk about it one more time.
Jenny: So. Amy has the fucking gall to come by and ask to borrow detergent. Go to the store, Amy.
Kristin: Alright.
Jenny: Get the fuck out of here, Amy!
Kristin: Listen, Amy also needs somebody to fucking help her. And I'm not saying it should be Willow, and I'm not saying that what Amy did was okay. But also, room for Amy as somebody just transformed from her rat self to a human, who's struggling and needs some fucking help.
Jenny: [reluctantly] Mmm.
Kristin: But yeah. She shows up and Willow sets boundaries. This is what I was talking about earlier that I think is a really important parallel. Where, you know, Willow is at the door and she's saying to Amy, like, what you did was wrong. We're to believe that essentially Amy drugged Willow, without her consent.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah.
Kristin: And so, I am hopeful that in this moment, Willow is telling Amy that that was wrong. And also, reflecting on the many things that she has done to her friends without their consent, and connecting those dots for herself. Because I do think that it would be helpful, moving forward, for her to understand those as one in the same. We will see what happens, but I just think it's important. And this is also where Amy mentions how fucking long Willow left her in that cage as a goddamn rat. To which I say, Amy-
Jenny: Mmhmm!
Kristin: You know, you're not right about a lot in this episode, but you are correct about this.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And then, we get this sick-ooh!-this sick fucking thing from Willow, where she says, "Amy, if you really are my friend, you better stay away from me. If you really aren't…"
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: [gritted teeth] "You better stay away from me." [both laugh] Pissed!
Kristin: Yeah, it's a good line.
Jenny: And she's tough.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: And you better stay away. One way or the other, Amy, stay the fuck away.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Now.
Kristin: Jenny.
Jenny: Yo.
Kristin: Are you ready for Lorraine Ross?
Jenny: I was born ready, actually. [Kristin laughs] I love Lorraine Ross.
Kristin: I love Lorraine Ross too. And I was-listen. I was like, Lorraine Ross is the biggest lesbian I've ever seen on my television screen.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Kirsten Nelson.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: I couldn't find anything about her sexuality. All I could find-
Jenny: [snorts] I love that you looked. [both laugh]
Kristin: I just wanted to know!
Jenny: She's got-she's got huge Jane Lynch energy.
Kristin: Yes! Massive Jane Lynch energy.
Jenny: Huge!
Kristin: I agree, I agree, I agree!
Jenny: She also was on one episode of The West Wing, playing young Mrs. Landingham!
Kristin: Oh my god!
Jenny: That's right. [Kristin sighs] That's right.
Kristin: Well. I couldn't sleuth out anything about Kirsten Nelson, past the fact that she's been married to a dude for 20 years.
Jenny: Mm.
Kristin: Which does not indicate anything declaratively.
Jenny: [snorts] Okay.
Kristin: But! [laughs] I will say that canonically, this podcast believes Lorraine Ross to be very queer. Correct, Jenny?
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Yeah, I want her to, like, blow a whistle and make me do a bunch of laps or something. [Kristin laughs] So, Buffy has come to return her uniform and she catches Lorraine Ross just as she's taking down one motivational poster and, I believe, hanging up a fresh one. [Kristin laughs] Sprucing the joint up.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: And Buffy reveals that she knows the vegetarian secret of Doublemeat Palace. Lorraine Ross is…running scared. She's like, close that door.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: The vegetable patties are rendered with beef fat for flavor.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: I.e., the secret ingredient is beef in beef. [Kristin laughs] Buffy's like, "So, I know a powerful secret. I'd like…dot-dot-dot…my job back!" This seems like a weird-
Kristin: Yep.
Jenny: Look. I mean, it's pure.
Kristin: It's noble.
Jenny: It's good.
Kristin: But-
Jenny: It's the Slayer.
Kristin: It's-it's funny, 'cause she could have probably just, you know, gotten paid and not done the work. But okay.
Jenny: Yeah. Lorraine seems like a really good manager.
Kristin: I agree. I think Lorraine is a great manager. And you know, to be honest with you, Manny was real creepy. But you know, he-I think he tried his best.
NOTES: [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah. And also, I feel like Lorraine and Buffy really have something.
Kristin: Yeah. I mean, the minute-
Jenny: [simultaneously] There's some kind of energy being exchanged.
Kristin: [simultaneously] The minute that Buffy walked into the room and Lorraine turned around, I was like, oh. [both laugh]
Jenny: The energy exists before Lorraine Ross re-hires Buffy Summers, so they are not technically a boss and worker. They are just two women. [both laugh] In an office.
Kristin: Also, power dynamics are a bit complicated. They're not normal, uh, manager-employee since Buffy also just blackmailed-[laughs]
Jenny: Blackmailed? Yeah. It's all very complicated.
Kristin: Right. So I think-I think we're good. I think we're good with Lorraine wanting to take Buffy on a date. I think we're good, I think we're fine. If not, you can be mad and tell us you're mad. That's fine.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Speaking of sexual tension, I think we have a jingle for that.
NOTES: [SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays] Sexual tension award!
Jenny: Well! Welcome back to another thrilling installment of the Sexual Tension Awards! [Kristin laughs] Today's slots are filled with some very compelling noms. And let me tell you all about them. In slot number one, he has very large upper arms and can't help himself. It has a wrapper it can't keep on around him. [Kristin] It's Xander and burgers of any kind. [both laugh] Delicious human flesh!
Kristin: Oh my god, it's like, the Doublemeat Palace burger is to wrappers like Angel is to button-ups.
Jenny: Oops!
Kristin: Oops!
Jenny: In slot number two. [Kristin laughs] They're all dried up. It's very, very wet.
NOTES: [both laughing] It's dehydrated pickles and water! [both laugh]
Kristin: Oh, no! Oh, no.
Jenny: Oh, yes, actually!
Kristin: Oh, no.
Jenny: In slot number three, we just talked about them. They had a very…charged thing going on for the brief period of time when they were not boss and subordinate, but just two women in an office. [Kristin laughs] It's Lorraine Ross and Buffy Summers! [laughs]
Kristin: Oh my god.
Jenny: And in the fourth and final slot-
Kristin: [sighs] Obviously.
Jenny: Very compelling noms. Noms in that they are nominees and noms also in that they might make you say-
Kristin: Oh, no. No-
Jenny: Like, nom-nom-nom.
Kristin: No. No. No.
Jenny: Yep, I said it. Yep.
Kristin: You're fired. You are-[Jenny laughs] like Buffy Summers, you are fired.
Jenny: Name a more iconic duo! It's chicken and cow!
Kristin: [laughs] Oh, no. It's true.
Jenny: Well! [laughs]
Kristin: What a fun-what a fun season for sexual tension, everybody. [both laugh]
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: [laughing] "They're all dried out," she said, of pickles. [laughs]
Jenny: Well, they are! They're dehydrated!
Kristin: I know. I know. I-just so you know, listener, I select these noms, along with Jenny.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: I did write down "dehydrated pickles and water," but you really took it to a whole new place. [Jenny sighs] And that's why you are the slot-nom queen.
Jenny: That's right.
Kristin: So-
Jenny: Cast! Your vote!
Kristin: [laughing] Yeah. Yeah.
Jenny: We urge you, we b-we need you. We need your voice. We need you to stand up and say, my choice for the Sexual Tension Awards of Doublemeat Palace is…fill in the blank. It's your choice, I can't tell you what to think. Although I think chicken and cow is a very compelling…uh, nom combo. Nombo.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Yeah, you'll have disappointed your parents if you don't vote for chicken and cow, to be quite honest, but-
Jenny: We'll have the Sexual Tension Award poll up on Twitter, @BufferingCast, for an entire week, following this episode being published. So please, run, don't walk. And stay hydrated. You know what I mean?
Kristin: Wow. [SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays] Sexual tension award!
Jenny: Oh! Here we are.
Kristin: Two all beef patties, special sauce…lettuce, cheese, pickles, onions on a sesame seed bun. Is that it? I did not look-
Jenny: It sounded very convincing.
Kristin: Right? Yeah. We have done…Doublemeat Palace, as best as we could. A lot in this episode really to figure out. I-listen. Buffy has her job back, so I don't think it's the last we'll see of the Doublemeat Palace. But I think we can all come together and agree that we will be trying to forget the monster in this particular episode.
Jenny: [laughing] It's true. Worst one so far!
Kristin: It's very upsetting. And I think, like-I feel like the collective consciousness around this episode is like, you remember all the stuff and then you're like, oh, right. That's also in this episode. [both laugh] You-it's just-it's unfortunate. And also, I think that it's-I love being able to look at, like, where we were, as a-I mean, in this case, as a country, in the United States-
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Like, alongside where the episode falls. And I think that that conversation we had up at the top about Fast Food Nation and about food and what has gone into food in this country-and other countries, too. But I know that the United States is particularly, I think, a forebearer of making your food not what you would think that it was, and then slowly seeing the effects of that on your population. [laughs] I think we-
Jenny: Weeee!
Kristin: Think we're ahead of the curve on that one. So anyway, I like to find the historical context of where these stories came from, and this one has a big one. And yeah. I don't know. This is an episode of television. [laughs]
Jenny: What a delight.
Kristin: Don't you just wanna eat a Doublemeat burger?
Jenny: I'm not compelled by this-by the makeup of this sandwich.
Kristin: No. I'm not compelled-
Jenny: A slice of processed chicken is not enough to take up a space between a triple-like, one of the triple-bun pairs. You know what I mean?
Kristin: Yeah. When did we start thinking that two burgers was better than one? You know? 'Cause that's, like, a real big thing. Like, two all beef patties-I mean, you know, the double burger is-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: I used to be a vegetarian and I…[laughs] I would order the double cheeseburger with no meat. 'Cause you would get two slices of cheese-
Jenny: Of course.
Kristin: Right, yeah. Well, non-vegetarians never understood that. They were always like, why would you want double burgers if you're not getting meat? Well, because cheese.
Jenny: Yeah. More cheese, more bread.
Kristin: More bread. Right. [laughs]
Jenny: Well! I'm Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: Have you decided if you're the chicken or the fucking cow yet or what?
Jenny: [sighs] I just think it's too big a decision for one person to make.
Kristin: Fine, I'm the cow.
Jenny: [laughing] Oh my god! [Kristin laughs] Cows are noble, friendly, warm and cute.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And you can play fetch with them. Did you know that?
Kristin: You can play fetch with cows?
Jenny: Yeah. Yep. People don't want you to see that.
Kristin: I don't know how I feel about that.
Jenny: Because they don't-they don't wanna upset the-
Kristin: I'm-yeah.
Jenny: The red meat apple cart.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: But cows will play fetch.
Kristin: Wow. Well, chickens like to peck at things all the time, kind of like, you know, using 1080P HD over and over again. [laughs] Or like, saying-
Jenny: What the hell?!
Kristin: Slots and noms over and over again.
Jenny: Unbelievable. My hollow bones, my beady eyes, my scaly little feet! [Kristin laughs] I'm Jenny Owen Youngs, and when I'm not watching Buffy, I'm usually writing and recording songs. You can learn more about me at jennyowenyoungs.com. You can give me a shout on Twitter @JennyOwenYoungs. You can find all my music on Spotify, Apple Music, wherever you stream music. You can also hear my new band L.A. Exes and watch our new music video for Temporary Goodbye [Kristin gasps] featuring my beautiful dog, on a skateboard, flying through space and time! Why would you keep yourself from that? I just can't imagine.
Kristin: I can't imagine either. And I realized, Jenny, that something nice I could have said about you being a chicken…[laughs]
Jenny: I'm listening.
Kristin: Male chickens are roosters, right?
Jenny: That's right.
Kristin: So roosters sing, just like you.
Jenny: Oh. Yes, if-the melodious, aspirational tones of the rooster. Thanks. [both laugh]
Kristin: Just-just sitting there, writing your songs, like cockadoodledoo. You know?
Jenny: Hell yeah.
Kristin: My name is Kristin Russo. And when I'm not talking about Buffy the Vampire Slayer or worrying about the fast food industry, you can find me working with LGBTQ communities, speaking at universities and workplaces. You can learn more about that work that I do on my website, kristinnoeline.com. That's K-R-I-S-T-I-N N-O-E-L-I-N-E. I've spelled it for you, so now you can also use it to find me on Twitter and on Instagram. And how about us? How about Buffering the Vampire Slayer?
Jenny: Well. I'm so glad you asked. Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram, @BufferingCast. Or you can drop us an email at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin: You can, and you can support the work that we do here on Patreon. Join us over on Patreon. There's just a ton of things happening. We're about to do a live watch. Jenny picked the episode. I'm sure you can imagine, if you know the season, what the fucking episode she picked is, both for the live watch that we do with our patrons and for the live taping that will happen thereafter. You can also be a member of our secret Facebook group, you can get the music in advance, you could get exclusive merch if you want. Isabella Rotman is doing a sticker pack!
Jenny: Oh, hell yeah.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Isabella Rotman is doing a fucking sticker pack for us for the next round of merch. And so if you become an ultimate patron before the end of April, which is, like, now, you will be in that bundle. And so you'll get a T-shirt and a stick pack.
Jenny: Ow, ow!
Kristin: Yeah, pretty fun stuff. You could also support us by rating and reviewing us on iTunes. Let people know what you think if you like us. If you don't like us, you can be quiet. It's fine. [laughs]
Jenny: Oh my god! Kristin, silencing the dissenters!
Kristin: Just kidding. If you don't like us, you can also say that. Freedom of speech, et cetera.
Jenny: [clears throat] And till next time…
Both: Awwwwoooooooooo! ["Doublemeat Palace" plays off the album "Songs from Season Six" by Buffering the Vampire Slayer]