Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 2.20: Go Fish
Jenny: Hey everybody, before we dive into this week's episode with our fabulous guest-
Kristin: Haha, dive in? To "Go Fish"?
Jenny: I-
Kristin: Great one Jenny.
Jenny: Oh boy.
Kristin: Sorry to interrupt, please continue this preroll.
Jenny: Before we get started on this episode with our wonderful guest Brittany Ashley, we need to tell you a few things. First of all, I Jenny Owen Youngs, will be embarking upon a tour starting next week. I'll be supporting my friends Streetlight Manifesto and I will be playing in the following citieswith them: Denver, Las Vegas, Tempe, San Diego, Anaheim, San Francisco, Portland, and Seattle.
Kristin: And beautiful Mount Rose, Minnesota.
Jenny: There's… [pause, Kristin laughs] no Mount Rose, Minnesota.
Kristin: But if you get that reference, extra points to you.
Jenny: But I'll be playing in all those other places and you can find out more at jennyowenyoungs.com/tour.
Kristin: Yes and I will be in New York City for the all-ages Everyone is Gay, and Autostraddle Pride Party on June 24th. It is at Housing Works Bookstore Cafe from 2-4pm. It is one of my very favorite things of all time. We will have performances by Be Steadwell, Julia Weldon, and the slam poetry team from Urban Word NYC. I will be hosting with Gabby Rivera, you should come down and say hello to me. You can find all of the event details on Everyone is Gay's Facebook page, Autostraddle's Facebook page, or probably just by looking up what's the best party to go to for Pride.
Jenny: We also want to remind you that we have a little shop upon the internet.
Kristin: Not of horrors.
Jenny: Not of horrors, but of wonders. A little shop of wonders. [Kristin laughs] Those wonders include but are not limited to 'Smash the Demon Lizard Patriarchy' shirts and muscle tanks, 'Just Keep Fighting' tees, Cordette, Slayerette, and Buffering pins. Holy crap, we have a lot of stuff. [Kristin laughs] It can all be found at bufferingthevampireslayer.com. Just go there and click on 'Shop'.
Kristin: We also want to let you know that next week, we will be coming at you with a mailbag episode so now is your chance to ask us any of those burning questions that you have about us, our lives, our podcast preferences, our…
Jenny: Interest in Game of Thrones coming back. [Kristin laughs] In just a few short weeks.
Kristin: Yes, our interest in Game of Thrones returning. You can email us at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com. So stay tuned next week for a mailbag episode and then after that, holy shit, [sing-song] we're into the finale.
Jenny: Wow, wow, wow. The future is bright but for now, here is the present.
NOTES: [THEME SONG]
Jenny: Hello and welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer! A podcast where we are watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer one at a time. I am Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: And I'm Kristin Russo and this week we are talking about Season 2, Episode 20 "Go Fish". Stay tuned at the end of the podcast every week for an original song written by us recapping the Buffy episode we are discussing.
Jenny: "Go Fish" was written by David Fury and Elin Hampton and directed by David Semel. It was originally aired on May 5th, 1998.
Kristin: This is the one where "members of the Sunnydale swim team are killed by a gill monster of unknown origins." [laughs] That's the description. [Jenny laughs] I'm sorry, this is the one where Xander wears a Speedo…
Jenny: Yeah! Oooow! This is also the one where Brittany Ashley is here!
Kristin: Brittany Ashley!
Jenny: Hooray!
Brittany: Happy to be here.
Jenny: Great, great.
Kristin: Welcome, oh my god. Brittany, in addition to bringing so far the best collection of Buffy memorabilia to our home, I think that's probably your highest credit in life-
Brittany: Yeah. [Jenny laughs]
Kristin: Is a writer. You wrote and hosted an LGBT news show on Logo, you were the lesbian on BuzzFeed. As I understand, Gaby Dunn refers to you as the lesbian stoner with red lipstick from BuzzFeed?
Brittany: That is correct.
Kristin: So if you know who that is, you know Brittany Ashley. [laughs] And you're the cohost of "Sicker Sadder World", a podcast we've already talked about here about Daria.
Brittany: Yeah, me and Laura Zak host this podcast and… it's changed my life.
Kristin: It's pretty amazing. And if you're listening to our podcast, I'm just going to go out on a limb here and say you might be into 90s nostalgia podcast TV recaps.
Brittany: Yeah, let's just hope there's just different series of paired-up lesbians [Jenny and Kristin laugh] recapping 90s shows. Somebody please snag Dawson's Creek soon.
Jenny: Mmmm.
Kristin: Please. Oh, we need to think of a snappy title for the lesbian Dawson's Creek recappers. Now I know Jenny's not going to pay attention to the rest of the episode 'cause she's just going to be thinking of a title.
Jenny: Yeah, I'll see you guys in an hour.
Brittany: This is also the episode with the straight white guy skin suits.
NOTES: [Jenny and Kristin laugh]
Kristin: One of my favorite things in life is a straight guy skin suit.
Jenny: Yeah, what do you think those are made out of?
Brittany: Privilege. [Jenny and Kristin laugh]
Kristin: My favorite part about the white guy skin suits are the steam.
Brittany: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: That lets you know they're fresh, you know-
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: They're just piping hot.
Brittany: The thing that I haven't understood is what smells?
Kristin: Right?
Jenny: That is the mystery.
Kristin: Yeah, so as these boys get overtaken by these fish monsters, or gill monsters according to IMDB, [laughing] which I like.
Jenny: I like gill monsters. I'm going to roll with that.
Kristin: Right? Gill monsters of unknown origin.
Brittany: Vince Gill-monsters [Jenny and Kristin laugh].
Kristin: Yeah, they smell something which is kind of a cool-
Jenny: But the thing is- the thing is with the first, mmmm, transformation?
Brittany: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Hatching? Emergence?
Kristin: Uh huh.
Jenny: With the first emergence…
Kristin: Yes. [laughs]
Jenny: Dodd is the person who becomes a fish monster, but he isn't the one who smells something.
Brittany: No, it's Gage.
Kristin: Ohhhh.
Jenny: Gage smells something but then in subsequent emergences…
Kristin: So that's upsetting.
Brittany: Right.
Kristin: Because I was-
Jenny: The person who transforms smells something.
Brittany: See, I wrote 'Plot hole: you can't smell yourself.' [Jenny laughs]
Kristin: Right, you should be able to smell someone else hatching?
Brittany: Right.
Kristin: I kind of like the idea that they can smell- that the first physical manifestation of this hatching was that they smelled something odd or off.
Jenny: Right, but-
Kristin: But you're right, it doesn't add up. Maybe Dodd and… who?
Brittany and Jenny: Gage.
Kristin: Do- [scoffs] [high-pitched] What are these names?!
Brittany: Who named these characters? Yeah.
Kristin: Dodd and Gage [laughs].
Brittany: It's just, like, car parts [Kristin and Jenny laugh].
Kristin: Maybe Dodd and Gage were just closer than we were led on to know in the course of the-
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: They were taking a stroll on the beach so…
Jenny: They were about to go for a night dip.
Brittany: They were. With his GQ turtleneck.
Kristin: That turtleneck… listen, it's early in the episode to do this, but I don't know how we can address that turtleneck without listening to Kate.
Jenny: Hell yeah.
Kristin: And hearing Kate and what she has to say because does she talk about the turtleneck? Does she not? If she doesn't, we have to address it.
Jenny: Let's find out together.
NOTES: [Buffy Fashion Watch intro jingle] It's time for our friend Kate To give you the Buffy fashion update
Kate: Hi everyone and welcome back to Buffy Fashion Watch. This episode is a great one because there are so many different outfits. The whole episode takes place over the course of four or five days, at the very least. So I just want to point out that Willow looks awesome in this episode. She has so many cute outfits. Her jumper, her orange- I'm gonna guess they're corduroy- pants, her skirt in the opening couple of scenes with its sort of high-waisted sweater is really, really cute. Also, Cordelia has some stunning looks in this episode. I would like to point out that once again, as always in this season, she's wearing a sweater set. But it's with a tank top, which I love, you know? Gotta switch it up. She's also dressed for what seems like a corporate garden party when she's at the scene at the swimming pool. And I don't know if you noticed, because I noticed because I'm gay, that [laughing] when she stands up, her skirt is slit basically up to the waist band. It's quite something. Anyway, she also has the return of her work shirt that she wore earlier in the season, which has got a white collar and it's blue and pinstriped with white cuffs and she's paired that with a jumper. Willow also wears a jumper in this episode and I don't know if you remember this particular era in time as well as I do, but jumpers are basically all that I wore. Just these sort of shapeless [laughing] sack dresses that you put over t-shirts or collared shirts or things like that. It's really, really excellent. The both of them kind of outshine Buffy in this episode but I do want to say something because I have to say something. The part of this episode where Buffy smashes the swimmer's nose into the steering wheel is one of my favorite moments [laughs] in this season, although everything that follows it is terrible. The nurse and the swim coach and the principal, basically everyone gives Buffy a hard time for dressing the way that she does. And we all know the rhetoric about, you know, if you're dressing that way, of course what do you expect is going to happen? But like, come on. I can't even suspend my disbelief for this. She's wearing a black tank top. It is not even remotely revealing and it's like summer in southern California and she's a teenager! I mean, were these lines written before they picked out the costume? Was she supposed to be in a tube top or something? Because everyone just seems like they're completely overreacting to something incredibly ridiculous. And the situation's awful and if you've ever been in it, I am so sorry. It's a terrible thing to experience. But like, frig. She's a teenager. Just let her live. Anyway. Until next time, I'll see you at the mall.
NOTES: [Buffy Fashion Watch outro jingle] That was our friend Kate She gave you the Buffy fashion update.
Kristin: Wow. Wow, Kate.
Brittany: No turtleneck.
Kristin: No turtleneck, but Kate- I understand the spiral that Kate fell down.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: We're about to fall down it at a slower pace [they all laugh] but it'll be the same spiral. But no turtleneck so let's at least start with the turtleneck and then talk about all of the other things that Kate brought up in that amazing fashion watch.
Jenny: [yelling] That turtleneck is bananas!
Kristin: [laughing] You guys…
Brittany: It looks like he belongs on a runway.
Kristin: Right?
Brittany: Not at a high school party.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And in general, let's… what's this actor's name?
Brittany and Jenny: [snobbily] Wentworth Miller.
Kristin: Thank you so much, ladies [They all laugh]. He does belong on a runway. I'm just going to go out on a limb and say it.
Brittany: Totally.
Kristin: I think he's so beautiful.
Brittany: He's so smouldering.
Kristin: Right?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: But yeah, the turtleneck puts it over the top. He should definitely pivot at the end of this scene and walk back the other way, you know?
Brittany: And that turtleneck does not fit his personality either.
Kristin: No.
Jenny: No!
Kristin: No I, he- you talked about, when we were watching, that you love this char- is it this character?
Brittany: Oh my god, yeah.
Kristin: Yeah.
Brittany: I wonder when they were writing this character, like, did they have Spicoli in mind? From "Fast Times at Ridgemont High"?
Kristin: Right, because he- yeah. He doesn't have the hair but he has definitely the surfer attitude.
Brittany: Yeah. "Oh dude, what is that foulness?" [Kristin and Jenny laugh]
Kristin: Yeah, they go really hard on the beach this episode in general. Like, we start at the beach with a bonfire and like, I've never seen- have you ever seen them participate in school activities before?
Jenny: Nooo.
Kristin: Like, that Cordelia and Xander and Willow and Buffy are all there without-
Brittany: Right.
Kristin: Like, it's not like one of them is dating- you know, there's not-
Jenny: Or like they're watching for some kind of evil.
Kristin: Yeah, they're just hanging out.
Jenny: They've gone to basketball games when there was a witch.
Brittany: Right.
Kristin: Oh right.
Jenny: And then football games when there was a zombie.
Kristin: Right, right. When they're on duty but-
Brittany: They only use sports when it's convenient [Jenny and Kristin laugh].
Kristin: Yeah, normally they're just sitting in Buffy's room and Xander's drinking Surge and… you know, they don't hang out. Something else in this opening scene that I want to point out that is a departure from the norm is that Cordelia laughs at Willow's joke [Jenny laughs].
Brittany: Oh, wow!
Kristin: And it made me so exci- Cordelia and Willow are standing together like great friends, we know they are.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: I mean, we at least know that they've made out in closets. And then Cordelia's talking about "At least we excel at something" and then Willow's like, "You mean besides our high mortality rate?" [Jenny laughs] And Cordelia genuinely laughs at Willow and I'm like, awww. I just felt really nice for their friendship.
Jenny: They're just so close.
Kristin: Yeah, they're moving right along, you know?
Brittany: Yeah, one thing about this show is that because they don't want to spend so much time with the characters laughing at each others' jokes, it does just read that nobody thinks anyone else is funny [Jenny and Kristin laugh].
Kristin: Right, right.
Brittany: I would be so self-conscious if I was one of them.
Kristin: Yes. You want to know another joke that I laughed at? When we pan from the jovial scene- [Jenny laughs]
Brittany: To the scene where she's staring off and it sounds like it was scored by a cat that was walking across a piano? [Jenny and Kristin laugh]
Kristin: Exactly! We did a live episode at A Camp and El was keeping tallies of many things and one of the things that they stopped keeping a tally of was the dramatic music changes-
Brittany: Oh god.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And I thought fondly of El in this moment, 'cause it does. It goes from like a guitar-y, whatever-
Jenny: Right, right, beach guitar.
Kristin: Precisely, could not have been described better. A cat walking across a piano.
Jenny: And so like, as if Buffy staring out over the moonlit ocean was not bad enough, [frustrated tone] huuuuh, this guy!
Brittany: Cameron?
Jenny: This guy.
Kristin: Oh, fuck Cameron.
Jenny: This guy.
Brittany: He has villain face, too.
Jenny: Truly.
Kristin: Yes, 100%. He even has a really- the only thing that I do like about Cameron is the vein that he has directly down the middle of his forehead.
Jenny: [laughing] Jesus.
Brittany: Yeah, I saw that.
Kristin: I mean, that's- I'm into that and nothing else.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: He's like the worst kind of man? [laughing] The kind who would, for example, start his intro by talking about the maternal nature of the ocean…
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: And then end by locking you in a car. You know?
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Brittany: Right.
Kristin: Like a really, just a… anyway, I just want to play this tiny clip just so we can all relive this together. This is the first moment we meet Cameron.
NOTES: [Audio clip plays]
Cameron: Beautiful. [pauses, sounds of ocean in background] Isn't it?
Buffy: Yeah, it's just so-
Cameron: Eternal. Our true mother giving birth to new life and devouring old. Always adaptable and nurturing, yet constant and merciless.
Jenny: Gross.
Brittany: Yeah.
Kristin: Vomit.
Jenny: I mean…
Kristin: No.
Jenny: Conceptually, the ocean as, like-
Kristin: No, the conce- yes. Nobody's going to argue…
Jenny: Right. But nobody wants to hear it from you, Cameron.
Kristin: No because we know what you're about.
Brittany: Right, but did the steroids make him this way or is he just this awful?
Kristin: I think he's just this- no because Gage- it's like Gage and Cameron are probably at same steroid level at this point in the episode.
Brittany: That's true.
Kristin: You know, not that Gage is perfect but… I get a particularly heinous vibe from this guy. Right?
Jenny: Yeah.
Brittany: He seems like the type of guy that would be like "Right, ladies? Like, I totally know your struggle"-
Kristin: Yes.
Brittany: And then he would try and take advantage of your vulnerability.
Kristin: Exactly.
Jenny: Ugh.
Kristin: The scene where they pull up in the car, and we'll talk about the car scene, fine, but like-
Brittany: In a Mustang.
Kristin: In a Mustang [Jenny laughs]. And he's just talk- you can tell it faded in-
Brittany: "Dolphins."
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: [laughing] Fades in on dolphins. And he just goes on and on and oh, god. We've had enough of it. I've had enough of it. Buffy's had enough of it.
Brittany: And Sarah Michelle Gellar has the perfect reaction to it too.
Kristin: Right?
Brittany: Because you're just like "god, she's so fucking over this." She had to hear about that all the way from her house to the school.
Kristin: From her house [Jenny laughs] which we don't even- how far is it?
Jenny: We don't know how far it is.
Kristin: We don't know, it could be-
Brittany: I do know how far it is in real life [Jenny laughs].
Kristin: [gasps] How far is it in real life?
Brittany: It's like two blocks away.
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: Oh wow.
Kristin: Really?
Brittany: My girlfriend, for my birthday, she took me on a Buffy tour throughout the city [Jenny squeals].
Kristin: Um, well before we talk more about the episode, this is a great in-point to hearing about-
Brittany: Sure.
Kristin: Your relationship to "Buffy" because I'm not kidding you, you definitely, like- future guests, you can try to top it. But for sure, you brought us an actual stake [Jenny laughs] in a velvet box with the opening lines of the series, the Slayer's sort of mantra written on the inside. There's many magazines, a yearbook, just so much. And so I want to know, first, tell us about your relationship to the show and then we'll get to how that relationship got you here.
Brittany: Sure [Kristin laughs]. So I was in, god, what grade was I in? I was probably in 4th grade or something when I saw it on TV. It was the episode with Marcy the-
Kristin: The invisible girl.
Brittany: The invisible gal and me and my sister who's four years older than me, we were watching it and when it was on air for the first few seasons, I would tune in every now and again. But it wasn't until high school where my sister had all the DVDs and I would just constantly borrow seasons 2 and 3 and just watch them to death. But yeah, it's gotten me through some dark times.
Kristin: So how many times do you think that you've seen the series?
Brittany: I've seen the series all the way through probably like five times? Five or six times but watched episodes from seasons 2 and 3, I mean, countless. And this is definitely an episode that I've watched over and over and over again. It's a great-
Kristin: Yeah, I was so excited to learn that you loved this episode.
Brittany: Totally and it's also a great episode to show people who haven't seen the series before. To show them, as a fun intro episode.
Kristin: Right. And what a monster to introduce them to.
Brittany: I know.
Kristin: I feel like, you know?
Brittany: And sometimes when I'm writing, I have it on in the background. It's like having a friend there.
Kristin: Yeah that's- I mean, that's very similar to your relationship to the series, Jenny.
Jenny: Oh, yeah. Yes it is.
Kristin: In the beginning of our relationship, Jenny would always be doing work with Buffy on and I never knew what was happening. In the series. I was always like 'Okay, there's just vampires and monsters.'
Brittany: And a cool moment that happened is my sister lives here now and I'd say once a month, she stays over in my room just to get to work easier in the morning, and I came home and she was asleep but Buffy was on on the TV and she watches it sometimes to go to bed.
Jenny: [squeals]
Kristin: Awww.
Brittany: And I was like 'we're the same!' [Kristin laughs]
Jenny: Hell yeah.
Kristin: Did your collection of items begin back in the early days or is that a more recent…
Brittany: Um, there's some that are from the early times and then some came randomly from a girl that I went on two OKCupid dates with and [laughing] she- honestly, she probably listens to this and this was [Kristin laughs] three or four years ago when I first joined OKCupid. There was a girl whose name was like 'Buffyfan'.
Kristin: Oh my god.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Brittany: Something-something and I was like 'Well this is obvious' but then we're not compatible at all and we actually got into a major fight. I'm sure you can imagine what fight it would be. But I can't really spoil it right now but you probably know.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Right. Of course.
Brittany: But it was very polarizing and it really set the tone for the way that we just feel about life in general.
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: Still early on too, two dates in. Intense fight for two dates in.
NOTES: [Jenny laughs]
Brittany: We called it off [Kristin laughs] but she had said something to the effect of 'I'm cleaning out my apartment and I have to get rid of a bunch of stuff' and it was magazines and it was trading cards and I was like 'Yeah, I'll take them'. But it also felt like it was an adult being like 'I can't have this shit anymore' and I was like 'I'll take it!' [Kristin and Jenny laugh]
Kristin: So-
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: Yes, Jenny.
Jenny: So back at Sunnydale High School, [Brittany laughs] Willow is being way too effusive about everyone's pie charts-
Kristin: Pie charts!
Jenny: Being so great.
Kristin: How can a pie chart-
Brittany: Be bad.
Kristin: Right?
Brittany: My same thought.
Kristin: I just want to know what-
Jenny: If it's not a circle? [Kristin laughs] If somehow-
Kristin: I mean, I guess we know how a pie chart can be bad. It's bad if it looks like naked woman solitaire.
Brittany: Right.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Which is another question I have. Where do you get that?
Jenny: Where do you get naked lady card solitaire for your computer?
Kristin: Especially on a standard school computer?
Jenny: Yeah.
Brittany: It's still insane to me that Willow is subbing- yeah, that's what you were gonna say.
Jenny: [yelling] Unacceptable! Unacceptable! It doesn't make any sense, it defies the laws of… [pauses for thought] gods and men and [Kristin laughs] the PTA and child labor law- like, it's just bananas.
Kristin: Yeah. It's totally- like, this has never happened, right? It's never happened.
Jenny: Vampires? Sure. Swimmers being infused with fish DNA and then becoming fish monsters that sort of hatch out of their human host's skin? Okay. A high school being like, "Would you mind? Our teacher died so would you just take over?"
Kristin: Stay on through finals.
Jenny: Through fi-
Kristin: The end of the year.
Jenny: Like, half the year?
Kristin: Yeah.
Brittany: It's also interesting because she does seem to love it so much and this isn't a spoiler but Willow doesn't become a teacher. [Kristin and Jenny laugh]
Kristin: [sarcastically] You have ruined it for everyone, Brittany.
Jenny: Noooo!
Brittany: But you'd think that would be something she would pursue.
Kristin: Right? A future plot point. But no.
Jenny: But I mean, it's pretty in line with her general personality.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: She loves to help, she loves to help her friends get better at school subjects.
Kristin: That's true, that's true. She loves to do homework for other people when they make her.
Jenny: Mmhmm, tutor.
Kristin: [laughing] So Snyder comes in, fucking Snyder. I'm sorry, I just love him. I mean, I hate him. I love to hate him is what I mean to say.
Jenny: Uh huh.
Kristin: But he comes in and he does this fucking crazy shitty thing. Which is a plot line in, like, a lot of 90s television shows, I feel like? Where the sports-
Jenny: Pass the sports guys.
Kristin: Pass the sports guys, right? I- having never been a sports guy myself, I can't report if this is a factual thing or not [Brittany laughs] but it seems like it must be 'cause it's in-
Jenny: Were you ever a sports guy?
Brittany: No, unfortunately not.
Kristin: No sports guys in the room?
Jenny: Nope.
Kristin: [sarcastically] Surprising [laughing].
Jenny: I have never received special privileges for my unparalleled athleticism.
Kristin: Right. But he basically tells Willow in no uncertain terms to pass this kid. And not to bring too many current political things into the series, but we're currently watching the Trump and Comey situation unfold. And so watching Snyder come into the room and be like "I'm not saying don't do this thing, but do this thing." [Jenny laughs]
Brittany: Do you have my honest loyalty?
Kristin: Right [Kristin and Jenny laugh]. Yes. So Snyder wants Willow's honest loyalty and Willow is incensed.
Jenny: And who's bagging him up in the next scene?
Brittany: Cordelia.
Jenny: None other than Cordelia Chase.
Kristin: Yeah. Cordelia has a rough episode this episode. She has one particular scene that I will talk about when we get there that I love. But she has a lot of really rough moments that I think are meant to pin her to her former Cordelia self and let us know that she's still Cordelia but they're done in these ways or she says these things that are just troubling. I don't know.
Brittany: I mean, I think in general, the second half of Season 2 is just very odd placement for so many episodes.
Kristin: Yeah.
Brittany: And so it feels like her arc is just kind of all over the place in terms of her own development.
Kristin: Right.
Brittany: Because, I mean, the second half of the second season it's just picking up and putting down the Angelus plot line. It's just so messy across the board.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Yeah. And I hesitated when I first started talking about it because we get in some hot water over here in podcast land for when Xander does something wrong, calling it out on Xander and when Cordelia does something wrong, being like "Well, the writers are really struggling with the character." [They all laugh] So I didn't want to fall into that trap. But no matter which way you slice it-
Jenny: It's not great.
Kristin: It's a rough exchange for Cordelia.
Jenny: Not great.
Kristin: Although I do like when she criticizes Abe Lincoln's hat. [Jenny laughs] I do like that moment.
Brittany: Yeah.
Jenny: Stupid hat.
Kristin: And then this fucking- this scene we've already talked it about a little bit but then we have the scene in the car which is just horrible and the whole thing, and this is what Kate- this is where Kate was like 'Oh, I'll give you a Fashion Watch.'
Brittany: Yeah [laughing].
Kristin: Let's talk about when people say you deserved what you got because you were wearing a tank top, bullshit.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: He's disgusting. This fucking line, "Are you wearing a bra?"
Brittany: Ugh.
Kristin: Like, are you- it's just- ugh!
Jenny: And one breath after he just said, "I'm not about pressure."
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: "Are you wearing a bra?"
Kristin: Right and then like, relax. And luckily we get this scene with, of course, Buffy. So she's like 'I'm not fucking concerned, man. [They all laugh] You know, what do you got?'
Jenny: Can I share- I was reading the Wikipedia article about this episode earlier today. And this is the- these are the first two sentences of the plot summary. It totally skips over the bonfire beach party [Kristin laughs], Willow in computer class, Cordelia talking about how winners deserve specialprivileges, and just starts: "Buffy arrives at school in a car with Cameron, a member of the school swim team. He makes persistent, sexual advances that are unwelcome, so Buffy slams his head against the steering wheel."
NOTES: [They all laugh]
Kristin: I wrote that summary.
Jenny: Great job [Brittany and Kristin laugh]. It's perfect.
Kristin: But yeah and then everyone's in on this fucking bullshit too. It's bad enough, the scene in the car, but then- it's just the classic… classic is probably the wrong word but-
Brittany: Realistic.
Kristin: Yeah, realistic. It's the realistic arc that happens so often where not only is this guy totally fucking with her, but then she's in the room with figures of authority who are saying "Hey, you shouldn't have done X, Y, and Z-"
Brittany: Right.
Kristin: "Because then he wouldn't have had to do this thing."
Jenny: Ugh.
Kristin: Although in this case, they're not even putting anything on him. They're saying-
Brittany: Right, well, it's men in power don't suffer consequences.
Kristin: Right.
Brittany: And so to try and speak out against that, it rarely works. However, Buffy is going to take shit into her own hands.
Kristin: Thank god.
Brittany: I know.
Kristin: Thank god for powerful women, you know what I mean? Also, what the fuck school has a steam room? Did your fucking- did anybody's high school have a steam room?
Brittany: No.
Jenny: No but look at that pool later.
Kristin: Yeah, I mean, it's a-
Jenny: That's like a majestic high school pool.
Kristin: Yeah but it's a standard-
Jenny: So many tiles.
Kristin: Okay, right. But I've seen high schools have pools. I have not ever seen a high school have a steam room. So I'm putting the question out to the listeners. Please let me know.
Jenny: Did your high school have a steam room?
Kristin: Yeah, maybe it's a California thing? I don't know.
Jenny: Mmmm.
Kristin: Anyhow, Xander has a great moment. Xander has actually, I think, a bunch of great moments in this episode.
Jenny: Xander has a great episode.
Kristin: Right? And we've talked about the fact that sometimes when the patriarchy mantle [Jenny laughs] is held up by some other men that Xander gets a break?
Brittany: Right, this episode and "Reptile Boy" always- just have so many similar parallels.
Kristin: Totally.
Brittany: Where he is the only guy, so he has to go undercover.
Kristin: Right, get in with the men [laughing] and find out what is really going on in the steam room.
Brittany: However it is fuzzy if he wants to get in with the men for the right reasons or if he wants that privilege.
Kristin: Right, right. And I think for Xander, it is a bit of both.
Brittany: Yeah, totally.
Kristin: For sure. But this scene that he has in the hallway where he bumps into Cameron… right? It's Cameron that he bumps into.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Is really great. Where he's like "Oh, Buffy's not on your list of privileges?" and "I really love it when you guys mess with her."
Brittany: Totally.
Kristin: It's like a really solid win for him being on the inside and still calling that shit out. So applause for you, Xander.
Brittany: I also wrote 'Sexual Tension Award question mark?' [Jenny giggles hysterically]
Kristin: Ohh, alright. In the ring. [laughing] In the ring.
Jenny: Wow! Taking initiative. I like it.
Kristin: Is it the two of them or is it perhaps whatever is going on the steam room which is also…
Brittany: Yeah, it's also like, could it be the teammates and their coach?
Kristin: Mmmm, oh my god which- that takes a turn. That's too rough for me.
Jenny: No no no no [Kristin laughs].
Kristin: So Cameron, just a-whir from the heat of that sexual tension between he and Xander, goes into the lunch room.
Jenny: Yeah, this exchange where he's like [mockingly] "You're lucky I'm hungry" and Xander's like "The cafeteria's closed" and Cameron is like "Not to me" as though- as though whatever is being served up or available to him in the Sunnydale cafeteria would be something anyone would want to eat.
Brittany: It's coleslaw! It's going to be coleslaw!
Jenny: Like who the hell eats cafeteria food?
Kristin: But also, there's like nobody there and nothing there. So I don't-
Jenny: [laughing] Empty, empty silver trays. He's going to the fridge where they keep Cordelia's prescription lunch.
Kristin: He's like 'it's not closed for me 'cause I know where Cordelia keeps her [Jenny laughs] prescription lunches that she no longer eats.' But something that Brittany and I, I think, shared a laugh about was [they all laugh] the tables and chairs-
Brittany: Yeah.
Kristin: That have fallen.
Brittany: There's a sign of a struggle.
Kristin: Right, I just would love for us to get the footage that we didn't see of what happened in the lunchroom. Because it appears as though when the monster was emerging from him, he threw his body all over the room [laughing].
Brittany: Just tornado'd everywhere.
Kristin: Took a page out of the werewolf's book [Jenny laughs]. Right? 'Cause that's how the Bronze was left. Everytime they need to show a struggle, every table is turned.
Jenny: Yeah.
Brittany: Totally.
Kristin: So we see the monster for the first time.
Jenny: Whoo!
Kristin: The monster of unknown origins, I can't get that out of my head from IMDB [laughs].
Jenny: Yeah, it's quite a face that thing's got.
Kristin: It's a good monster. I don't know, how do you feel about this monster?
Brittany: I feel for a non-vampire villain, it's a pretty good one.
Kristin: Right? It's like-
Jenny: I mean, think about the werewolves on this show.
Kristin: Oh dear god, don't do it.
Jenny: For a second.
Kristin: Don't think about them.
Jenny: Think about the snake monster from "Reptile Boy".
Brittany: Yeah, they put a lot more thought into these costumes. And they were scary.
Kristin: Right? It has-
Jenny: And glistening. They looked great.
Kristin: Right, that's exactly what I was going to say. The goo, the sticky clear goo-
Brittany: Right.
Kristin: That goes a long way for me.
Jenny: Also, their catfish whiskers on the sides of their mouths? Great. Love it.
Kristin: Yeah, they're like a page out of "Alien" and a page out of… you know, there's just like a lot of different elements coming into play.
Brittany: Right.
Kristin: I love… in my monster ranking, monsters that burst out of people's bodies are up there for me.
Jenny: [grossed out] Oh yeah, that's what you're into?
Kristin: I just like the effect of it.
Jenny: Ugh.
Kristin: I know, sorry.
Jenny: It's horrifying.
Kristin: I'm sorry to talk about Freddy but I'll be real quick, it's just one other mons- there's a scene where-
Jenny: Oh, you like Freddy Krueger?
Kristin: I'm sorry, it's just-
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: In the fourth one, there's a character who turns into a cockroach and so the same- whatever they did to make his hand bust out of that thing is- there must be a standard trick in movies for people who do makeup.
Brittany: And it's also just a message that there might be a monster inside all of us.
Kristin: Oh, oh.
Jenny: [impressed] Wow, wow.
Kristin: I feel like you deserve a sound cue for that.
NOTES: [Sound of applause] [They all laugh]
Kristin: But yeah, I love a good- I love these monsters. And yes, themonsters from within. My next note is unclear: 'lolol, Cordelia'.
Brittany: Oh, the artist?
Jenny: Oh, 'cause she's a sketch artist!
Brittany: Yeah [Kristin laughs].
Jenny: All of a sudden! "Would you say its eyes are close together or far apart?"
Kristin: She's so good at drawing all of a sudden!
Brittany: Yeah.
Jenny: Well, to be fair we've never seen her draw.
Kristin: That's true.
Jenny: So it may not be a new skill, but it's new to us.
Brittany: I feel like hot girls are good at drawing.
Kristin: Really?
Jenny: Ummmmmm…
Kristin: Oh, you're going through your rolodex of hot girls [laughing] and trying to connect them to if they can draw.
Jenny: Yeah [laughing]. I have some data that supports your theory but… it's not conclusive.
Kristin: God everyone, including me, wants to know who's on the hot girl list and which of them can draw, you know? [Jenny laughs]
Brittany: I'm just thinking of high school art class.
Jenny: That's exactly what I was thinking of!
Brittany: Yep. And I was always like 'ooo, surprising.' [Jenny and Kristin laugh]
Jenny: Sooo, what isn't great right after this is "You ran like a woman."
Brittany: Yeah.
Kristin: "You ran like a woman" and "Go out and practice running like a man."
Jenny: [frustrated] Ugh.
Kristin: This is strike two for Cordy. She's really having an episode that I'm not- and I can get behind her flipping things sometimes, you know? Like, last week she was against the Sadie Hawkins dance because she was super into men paying for her shit.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: And I was like 'I can get behind that.' I can't- these things-
Jenny: Due to the wage gap.
Kristin: Yeah, yeah. But I just, I don't like it. No, Cordelia, stop it.
Jenny: Then there's some deduction going on. Buffy is ready for fucking trench coat times.
Kristin: Oh my god [they all talk over each other]. Buffy- listen, she's a great Slayer. She is really good at a lot of things. She's a fucking horrible spy.
Jenny: Her detective and spy skills have taken a nosedive.
Kristin: They have plummeted. As has her costuming for said activities, you know?
Brittany: Yeah, she looks like she's gonna surprise her boyfriend on Valentine's Day [Jenny laughs], like showing up at his door only wearing that silk trench coat.
Kristin: Right? [they all laugh] But yeah, horrible spy job. Meanwhile, you know who's doing a great job?
Jenny: Willow.
Kristin: Willow.
Brittany: Oh yeah.
Kristin: This might be one of my favorite scenes in the whole episode where she has the fucking desk lamp just in Jonathan's face?
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: And she's like, I don't even remember how she starts it, but it's great. It's great. "I'll crack him like an egg" is really where she starts.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: If everyone agrees with me, I would like to give Willow her jingle for the scene where she questions Jonathan.
Jenny: Yeah.
NOTES: [Willow's jingle plays] Who knows the square root of 1225? Willow! Who's gentle of heart and nimble with a hard drive? Willow! Willow, Willow, Willow.
Kristin: Great work, Willow. Great work. One other thing I just want to point out before we change scenes…
Jenny: Mmmm.
Kristin: Is that in the computer room, there is a bulletin board [Jenny laughs] and on the bulletin board, in the space allotted, there's a space below it where you put things and above it, it's titled 'Cyberspace'. [Jenny laughs] Sometimes I miss entire scenes just trying to watch the boards and the signs in the background looking for little things.
Brittany: Totally.
Jenny: Also, Gage is playing Game Boy. Gage is playing a Game Boy-
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: In the student lounge area.
Kristin: The most beloved possession, I think, of the 90s. Did you have a Game Boy, Brittany?
Brittany: I did.
Kristin: I loved my Game Boy so much. The tiniest- do you think we could even see what was on the screen anymore? I feel like our eyes-
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: Our eyes have devolved and need to see backlit…
Jenny: Maybe.
Kristin: I don't know. Anyhow.
Jenny: Yo, so we go to the Bronze, right? And Buffy is doing [sarcastically] a really great job observing Gage very discreetly.
Kristin: God, Buffy.
Jenny: And he gets in her face and he's all like "Yo, Cam told me about your games."
Kristin: But in like a sexy way. [laughs]
Jenny: No, he's super hot the whole time. And then he leaves and he's like 'Oh, what a crazy bitch' or whatever he said.
Kristin: Yeah, what does he say? Something horrible. And then as if on cue waiting for his line, Angelus is like 'Did someone say Buffy sucks?' [laughs] 'Let me turn you into a vampire so that you can help me kill her.'
Brittany: One of my favorite lines was "My condolences, dude. " [Kristin and Jenny laugh]
Kristin: Only to possibly, for me, be topped when Angel is so fucking dramatic about the shitty taste of the blood.
Brittany and Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: He literally spits for like, two solid minutes.
Brittany: He's a child. [Jenny laughs]
Kristin: He's a literal infant child. 'Cause the scene's over and they cut back to him and he's still like [makes spitting sounds].
Jenny: But to be fair to Angelus, what does it taste like? Fish? Maybe?
Kristin: You know what?
Jenny: Maybe it tastes like… bad fish.
Kristin: I just feel like if you're the most powerful vampire, at least keep your shit together 'til you round the corner. You know what I mean?
Jenny: Okay.
Brittany: Totally.
Kristin: Save some face is all I'm saying.
Brittany: Because they could use that to defeat him.
Jenny: Also, this thing where they're about to fight and she pulls her hair… chopstick out of her hair-
Kristin: Oh, yeah [she and Brittany laugh].
Jenny: And shakes her hair out and he's like-
Kristin: Her to-go stake?
Jenny: "Miss Summers, beautiful." Like, why?
Kristin: Yeah, he's just- it's a weird cameo for Angel. I don't even really understand the placement of this except for-
Jenny: He's in the credits, he's gotta show up.
Kristin: We're nearing the end of the season… yeah.
Brittany: I feel like the last episode would have been better placement before the two-part season finale.
Kristin: Right? Right. But then, the problem with that too is that "Passion" was also right before the weird Kinderstod episode. So it would have been like Kinderstod, then "Go Fish". People would have been like 'What is going on?'
Brittany: That's true. I guess they did have to put the more narrative heavy ones…
Kristin: But yeah, it was just a weird three minutes with Angel before he disappeared forever again. Do you know who swims laps?
Brittany: What about "walk me home"?
Kristin: Oh, you're right.
Jenny: Oh my god, "Walk me home." Now Buffy and Gage are best friends.
Kristin: They are.
Brittany: I see a flirtation.
Kristin: Yeah, I mean, he stops swimming in the middle of the pool.
Brittany: That was so cute.
Kristin: Right?
Jenny: That is really something.
Kristin: It's really cute. But also you would for sure get in trouble for that. Like, they were doing a set.
Jenny: Not if you're Gage, you're now the best living- best human swimmer on the swim team.
Kristin: Yeah.
Brittany: That's true.
Kristin: Although, do people count as human until they hatch?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Okay. Do you think Michael Phelps is human? Because I don't. I think Michael Phelps is part fish. I'm just saying, maybe Coach Carl got the secrets for this fish stuff and maybe so did Michael Phelps.
Jenny: Oh, or maybe Michael Phelps was on this swim team.
Kristin: Oh, and just never hatched.
Jenny: Uh huh.
Brittany: We didn't see him in the steam room.
Kristin: Right. I mean, we probably wouldn't have even recognized him in the 90s.
Brittany: Yeah, Shane West really took that spotlight.
Jenny: Oh. My. G- okay.
Kristin: Okay, so now we're at the pool.
Jenny: Great.
Kristin: Jenny?
Jenny: Listen! [Kristin laughs] As the person in the room who might possibly have the greatest capacity to appreciate the male form-
Kristin: Wait, what?! [laughing]
Jenny: Yeah, that's right, I said it! I love hunks! I love looking at men with great muscle tone! I love it! And I am not afraid-
Kristin: [laughing] Brittany's about to leave [Brittany laughs]. Brittany's about to walk out.
Jenny: Please don't leave, Brittany.
Kristin: Brittany's like 'What the fuck is happening right now?'
Jenny: I'm just saying-
Kristin: You love a hunk.
Jenny: I love a hunk.
Kristin: But I- personally, I feel offended, I don't know if you do. I also like a hunk.
Jenny: Yeah, but I feel like I make more of a thing out of it.
Kristin: Well, I mean, certainly, you've proven your point today [they all laugh].
Jenny: You're just so laid back about-
Kristin: I'm trying to play it cool-
Jenny: Natural beauty or whatever.
Kristin: So that the hunks will be into me, you know?
Jenny: Right. I don't have that ability.
Kristin: Yeah. Not playing it cool.
Jenny: All I have is this. [Kristin laughs] Which is to say, great job, Xander. Looking great in a Speedo. He did a great job looking great.
Kristin: Yeah.
Brittany: It's also interesting that, assuming that the camera angle is the way that all three of the women looked at him [Kristin laughs], do you ever start at the toes?
Kristin: The feet. [Jenny and Kristin laugh] At the feet! Not to yuck anybody's yum if you start at the toes. Fine. But certainly that is not where I begin my journey.
Jenny: It was an interesting starting point but it's the only way the reveal could work.
Kristin: Right. It's an interesting question though because I think if I'm going to scan a hunk body, I think I actually start with the face and work down.
Brittany: Right.
Kristin: I don't start from the bottom up.
Jenny: I think I start around the chest-
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Shoulders, arms.
Kristin: Okay.
Brittany: I start at the kneecaps, go down [Jenny and Kristin laugh]. And then I go nose up. And then I go from the left to the right.
Kristin: Kneecaps to the ankles. Great starting point.
NOTES: [AD BREAK]
Jenny: Today's sponsor is Shudder, the premium streaming video service devoted to thrillers, horror, and suspense. Backed by AMC Networks, Shudder has a growing and dynamic selection of thrilling premieres, originals, and exclusives, including the pregnancy horror comedy "Prevenge", Sophia Takal's "Always Shine", and "The Ring" vs. "The Grudge" franchise mashup "Sadako vs. Kayako".
Kristin: New to Shudder is the exclusive, stylish, and atmospheric "Sweet, Sweet Lonely Girl". When Adele is sent to look after her aunt Dora, she is greeted with a life of loneliness, stuck in a room with a woman who barely speaks. Adele's lonely life improves for the first time however, when she meets the seductive Beth.
Jenny: We've all been there.
Kristin: Haven't we? Also, I cannot believe that we put this ad up last week, we told you about Beth and Adele, and not a single person has written to us? Or tweeted at us? About Beth and Adele.
Jenny: It's unbelievable.
Kristin: Very unlike you all. Anyhow, back to the ad. But after Beth pushes her to shirk her duties, Adele faces a dangerous reckoning. Who is Beth and what does she want from Adele? From performances to visual style, A. D. Calvo's queer supernatural chiller evokes the eerie atmosphere of 70s and 80s horror in the same way Ti West did with "The House of the Devil". "Sweet, Sweet Lonely Girl" had its world premiere at the Fantastic Fest last September and is now streaming only on Shudder. Jenny, we're going to watch this before we do the mailbag episode, aren't we?
Jenny: Hell yeah.
Kristin: I cannot wait to talk about it there.
Jenny: Shudder is available on the web, iOS, Android, Chromecast, Apple TV, and Roku for $4.99 a month or $49.99 with an annual membership. However our listeners can get a free month by entering promo code 'buffering' at checkout. That's shudder.com and use the promo code 'buffering' for one free month. Today's episode is also brought to you by Bold Food. Bold Food Tours offer the experience of a lifetime to the hottest food cities around the world.
Kristin: Jenny.
Jenny: Kristin.
Kristin: Do you know what I want?
Jenny: What do you want?
Kristin: I want to go on a Bold Food Tour.
Jenny: It sounds pretty ideal.
Kristin: I would like to do that, that is a thing that is on my list to do. Now, we know a little bit about Bold Food and everything they offer because we got the chance to speak with Muffy who runs Bold Food and whose name…
Jenny: Rhymes with Buffy?
Kristin: So that's fitting for this podcast for a lot of reasons. And Muffy reached out to us to have us tell you about the work that she does over at Bold Food because it rules and also because she supports the work that queer women do. So you know what I think?
Jenny: What's that?
Kristin: I think that I would like to support Muffy back by going on a Bold Food tour that you purchase for me.
Jenny: This has really taken a turn. [Kristin laughs] I did not somehow see this coming.
Kristin: You really should check it out, you can find out more about Bold Food over at boldfoodco.com. There are options right now to go to Austin, Texas, to go to Lima, to go to Singapore, and they are expanding those options with every moment, so you should check them out. If you can't do it now, you should definitely flag it to do later. It is an experience that I know we both really want to have and I think it would be incredible.
Jenny: If I… bought it for you.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: Thank you.
Jenny: Well, I intend to go to boldfoodco.com.
Kristin: Yeah, you better go while our code works.
Jenny: While our $300 code works. That's promo code 'Buffy' for $300 off your first tour.
NOTES: [END AD BREAK]
Kristin: So yeah, Jenny. Once, perhaps the only time you'll ever hear you rave about-
Jenny: Sorry, I had to shout a bunch.
Kristin: Xander's bod. But you know who else is into it is Cordelia.
Jenny: Cordelia.
Kristin: She doesn't even realize who she's looking at. And then- I love- really, Cordelia's good scenes are at the pool, I think.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Whenever she's at the pool this episode, she's doing a good job. Because then there's this moment where Xander is like "No, I really am on the swim team" and she says "Really?" in this perfectly [Jenny laughs] nuanced like, "I don't want you let you know I'm really into that, but I'm letting you know I'm really into that" way.
Brittany: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And then Xander dives into the pee pool.
Jenny: God.
Kristin: Which is unfortunate for him. Also, why is everyone making such a big deal out of it? That's what chlorine is for.
Brittany: Right. And it's a big pool.
Kristin: It's a big pool. Let me break it to everybody listening. If you've swam in a pool, it has had pee in it.
Jenny: [laughing] There's no way around it.
Kristin: There's no way around it. Xander dives into the pee pool…
Brittany: Or just the pool.
Kristin: Right, right, thank you. [Jenny laughs] Qualifier not necessary. But everyone's upset about it for him but my thought was that was a pretty good dive.
Jenny: Yeah, was that Nick Brendan or was it a double?
Kristin: A stunt diver?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: I feel like that probably he was able to dive for himself.
Jenny: I don't know.
Brittany: It looked a little belly flop to me.
Kristin: It almost did but he- for somebody who was certainly not ever-
Jenny: Somebody who just got on the swim team last night.
Kristin: Yeah, I thought it was alright.
Brittany: That's true.
Kristin: And he hadn't even had his first steam room party yet, which is where we go next, to a steam room party.
Brittany: [sings porn-style music] Bow-ti-ti-bow.
Kristin: Yeah, right? So many naked men surrounded by steam, not talking to each other at all.
Jenny: Except…
Kristin: [laughing] Except the one person who talks the entire time.
Jenny: Is that like a… well, I guess none of us would know. 'Cause none of us are hanging out in the men's steam room. But I wonder if it's like a [laughs], like how a lot of guys will leave a seat between them in the movie theater? Or, oh my god, the other day Kristin and I were-
Kristin: Oh my god.
Jenny: At the hospital and we got-
Kristin: [laughs] Don't be alarmed.
Jenny: No, everyone's fine. We were just there, it's fine. And we got in the elevator and two man doctors came in-
Kristin: No, one man doctor was in with us. It was us two on one side and the man doctor on the other side.
Jenny: Right and then the man doctor who entered the elevator, like, in what I can only imagine to be an effort to stay as far away from the other man, just in case their dicks accidently touched in the elevator, [Kristin laughs] basically leaned up against the two of us-
Kristin: Like, he stood on top of us.
Jenny: And it was a pretty big elevator-
Kristin: He could have definitely stood in the middle of the elevator.
Brittany: Oh my god.
Jenny: And not accidentally touch dicks with the other guy.
Kristin: Anyway.
Jenny: Men.
Kristin: Men. Yeah, I thought there'd be more talking in there. But maybe that's because I'm a lady and I think that ladies would talk in the steam room.
Jenny: Do ladies talk in the steam room?
Kristin: No, well-
Jenny: You go to a steam room sometimes.
Kristin: I go into a steam room, but it's in a gym where you don't know the people. But I imagine that if I was sitting with you both in a steam room, that we would talk. It would just be weird to sit there and not-
Jenny: Is that what we're doing? Is that a thing we're doing?
Kristin: That's what we're doing, yeah. [Brittany laughs] Buffy field trip after the episode, we're all going to go to a steam room.
Jenny: Great. That steam room.
Kristin: I hear they're at any local high school. [laughs]
Jenny: Mmmm. So then Gage is in the locker room right? And Xander has left him behind and tags Buffy in to be his watcher basically.
Kristin: Oh right.
Jenny: She hears this scream-
Kristin: This is the "Alien" entry monster reveal.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: I think that it's important to point something that may go unnoticed in this scene because of the, you know, monster reveal. Which is that there are some gym towels that are embroidered with SHS [Jenny laughs] for Sunnydale High School, which I feel is important to note.
Jenny: Wow. Only the swim team gets those.
Kristin: Yeah, yeah.
Jenny: Just another one of their many privileges.
Kristin: They only get pulled out when the team wins, which had never happened before [Jenny and Kristin laugh]. Followed by the monster slip and slide. Everyone's favorite game.
Jenny: That was great.
Kristin: Just a beautiful- yeah. They did a lot of things with these-
Jenny: Just two gill monsters taking a run, a dive, a slip-
Kristin: Yeah, slip sliding.
Brittany: And Buffy gets bitten on the shoulder.
Kristin: Right. Buffy gets bit, which is fucking rough. Ugh.
Jenny: Gross because do you think fish mouths are dirtier than human mouths?
Kristin: I think they smell.
Jenny: [laughs] There definitely are strong indicators across the span of the episode-
Kristin: That let us know that they smell.
Jenny: That there's smell stuff happening.
Kristin: And it's bad to get bit by anything, but certainly I would not want to get bit by a thing that smells bad.
Brittany: Right. It's very a unceremonious goodbye to Gage.
Kristin: Aww, yeah.
Brittany: 'Cause I think that Gage and Buffy could have had a cute flirtation.
Kristin: Right? It's true. I know, I liked Gage too.
Brittany: And I feel like a lot of these guys that are being turned into these monsters, they would have been really helpful for-
NOTES: [Spoilers jingle plays] Spoilers, spoilers, spoiler alert!
Kristin: That was a little jingle that we made because as you may know, this is a spoiler-free podcast. But sometimes we get a little carried away and we get excited about things that are spoilers. So from now on, if that happens, you'll hear that little spoiler jingle covering up the things that we do not want you new viewers to hear. So, then Giles and Buffy go on their father-daughter-
Jenny: Doctor visit?
Kristin: What? No. Their father-daughter- oh, yes.
Jenny: Well, first she gets wrapped up and then they go on their father-daughter sewer trip.
Kristin: Their father-daughter fishing trip. They're going fishing, it's really cute. It's really sweet.
Jenny: [laughs] Did you ever go fishing with your dad?
Kristin: No, my dad does not fish.
Jenny: Did you ever go fishing with your dad?
Brittany: I don't think so. I would just play catch with my dad.
Jenny: Awww.
Kristin: Awww, that's so nice. Did you do anything with your dad?
Jenny: Yeah, I've been fishing with my dad.
Kristin: Wow!
Jenny: Yeah, no big deal. Just a girl and her dad, catching some sunnies.
Kristin: I don't think- my dad just mows the lawn.
Jenny: That's true.
Kristin: You know? That's what he does best.
Brittany: He's just caught in a loop of only mowing the lawn?
Kristin: Yeah or shoveling snow. [Jenny and Kristin laugh] It's one of those two things. He's just constantly on the move. And we learn some stuff in the next few moments of the show where the steroids are in the steam.
Jenny: We learn it [pauses] from Shane West, as you mentioned.
Brittany: Totally.
Jenny: Who would go on [pauses, Kristin laughs] to star opposite Mandy Moore in the Nicholas Sparks novel adaptation film, A Walk to Remember.
Brittany: I did see Shane West once.
Jenny: Where?
Kristin: Go on.
Jenny: Wait, can we guess where?
Brittany: Sure!
Kristin: Starbucks.
Brittany: No.
Jenny: Yogurt Land.
Brittany: No [Kristin laughs].
Jenny: American Eagle.
Kristin: Abercrombie.
Brittany: Okay, so think about where also Shane West would shop. Or be.
Kristin: Nordstrom.
Brittany: Okay, it's not a store. It's not a store.
Jenny: Okay, is it a food place?
Brittany: No.
Jenny: Is it a-
Kristin: The beach.
Brittany: No.
Jenny: Is it a pool party at someone famous's house?
Brittany: No.
Kristin: Jury duty.
Brittany: No [Kristin and Jenny laugh].
Jenny: Jury duty is good. Not the Mac store, okay.
Kristin: The dentist's office.
Brittany: No.
Jenny: A therapist.
Brittany: No.
Jenny: The gym.
Brittany: No.
Kristin: Good guess, good guess!
Jenny: Right? A park.
Brittany: Nuh uh.
Jenny: Not even Griffith Park?
Brittany: No.
Kristin: A dog park.
Brittany: No [Kristin laughs].
Jenny: A museum.
Brittany: Think dirtier.
Kristin: Dirtier?
Jenny: Muddin'.
Brittany: No. [She and Kristin laugh] Not physically dirtier, just theoretically dirtier.
Jenny: Oh, Jumbo's Clown Room.
Brittany: Close. [Kristin gasps] So it was- I've only been to maybe one club in Los Angeles and it's called Bootsy Bellows-
Kristin: Oooh.
Brittany: And it's in West Hollywood. And I went with my friend Chris and I was completely wasted and he was at a table that had bottle service and I kept trying to dance my way over, just to be near him-
Kristin: [laughs] Right.
Brittany: And Bootsy Bellows is a very strange club where people will dance with marionette puppets.
Kristin: What?!
Jenny: Mmmm, mmhmm.
Brittany: And I was trying to get close to Shane West but there was this marionette puppet of The Nightmare Before Christmas-
Kristin: Oh my god.
Jenny: Wow.
Brittany: And so I just grinded with that thing.
Kristin: Oh my god [Jenny laughs].
Brittany: And I never got to say hi to Shane West.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: Somewhere Shane West is on a podcast right now being like "I was at Bootsy Bellows one time [Jenny laughs] and there was this girl dancing with a marionette just right next to me all night long."
Brittany: Yeah.
Kristin: So I have a question not related to Shane West. But I have a question that is related to the consistency of this whole plot? Because the swim team is dropping like fucking flies. Like, I don't understand the long term goal of the coach. Or does he just not realize he's failing?
Jenny: He's just trying to get the amount right. That's what he-
Kristin: [understanding] Oh, he's adjusting the levels.
Jenny: And Nurse Ruthie are talking about as they walk through the pool room.
Kristin: So they're trying to figure out the ratio so they're doing, uh, some hell math?
Jenny: I guess they must be doing some Hell Math!
NOTES: [Hell Math jingle plays] Hell Mathhh!
Jenny: If Willow was on their team, she could probably just eyeball, as we've seen her eyeball in the past, any liquid [Kristin laughs] in a vial. She can tell you how much needs to go in a person without causing death.
Kristin: I think what we're learning about Hell Math is it's a very general… feel it out kind of a vibe. It's definitely more like a cooking over baking kind of a math, you know?
Jenny: Mmmm. I think it's experience based.
Kristin: Ohhh, interesting. Interesting.
Jenny: Learn as you go.
Kristin: Brittany talked about knowing that the coach's name was Carl and it's because of this moment-
Jenny: "Carl!"
Kristin: This moment, right? What's her name?
Jenny: "This has got to stop, Carl!"
Kristin: "This has got to stop, Carl!"
Jenny: Nurse Ruthie.
Brittany: And you know that teachers are close or faculty is close when they call each other by their first name and you catch it. Remember catching that in high school?
Kristin: Yes. And you were like [gasps].
Brittany: Yeah.
Kristin: It was like when you learned, like, your parent had a name that wasn't Mom?
Jenny: Yeah [Kristin laughs].
Brittany: Yeah.
Jenny: It's so weird.
Kristin: Yeah, very bizarre.
Brittany: My teacher's name is Mark?!
Kristin: Yeah [she and Jenny laugh].
Jenny: I know like a regular person my age named Mark.
Kristin: Yeah, which is totally irreconcilable to the fact that this is not a person. You're a teacher. So then right after her great line, that's it for Ruthie.
Jenny: [grossed out] Ugh.
Kristin: She gets fed to the monsters. And it's like, this is a weird part of the plot that I don't understand why it needed to be there. Like in "Reptile Boy", 'cause you brought up that episode as something that has a lot of parallels-
Brittany: Mmhmm.
Kristin: You know, it was a frat house. There was a very direct reason to bring in a sex element and a rape-y element of the plot line?
Brittany: Sure.
Jenny: [grossed out] Ugh.
Kristin: This is like- 'cause she gets thrown to them to get fed to them and then when Buffy gets thrown, he's like, "Boys have other needs."
Jenny: This is…
Brittany: Ugh.
Kristin: And I'm not- I guess I don't understand-
Brittany: Yeah, good role models!
Kristin: [laughs] But yeah, why? I just, I don't know.
Jenny: Also, I mean not to undercut the seriousness of that as a repulsive and unacceptable act. What's up with fish… reproduction? 'Cause isn't there just like-
Kristin: They don't- right.
Jenny: Eggs are laid externally and then there's like a fertilization thing that happens.
Kristin: Yeah, that's actually what-
Jenny: What even- what needs do they have?
Brittany: Well, that obviously shoots him in the foot when he's in there eventually.
Kristin: Right, which I guess is why- maybe they set that up to turn it on its head? I just, I didn't like the execution of the whole thing.
Brittany: Right.
Kristin: 'Cause I am way a fan of us calling out the kind of culture we live in where women are blamed for shit and like, how fucked up it is that we talk about things like "boys have needs" and like, that's why those lines are there. But it just- I guess I feel like it wasn't contextualized enough to have that?
Brittany: Yeah.
Kristin: So it was just like this really weird laughing off of silly jokes that were actually really fucked up things, that I wasn't super into.
Jenny: I was super into, conversely, the phrase "inner halibut". [Kristin laughs] I liked that a lot.
Kristin: Yeah. They went medium on the fish puns. I thought they could have gone harder, personally.
Jenny: Yeah.
Brittany: I agree.
Kristin: I'm always- right?
Jenny: There were two separate sauce jokes. Tartar sauce and a lemon butter.
Kristin: Yeah, many ways you can sauce a fish, you know?
Jenny: I know it. [Kristin laughs]
Kristin: So last week we talked about the government of Sunnydale, right?
Jenny: Uh huh.
Kristin: And how they're in on this and we're learning more and more that they're in on this. Is the hospital in on it? Because there's this whole thing where they're like, "We have to get this to the hospital toxicology lab so they can develop an antidote." Like, what? Like, how- Giles is going to be like, "Excuse me, doctor-"
Jenny: Yeah [laughs].
Kristin: "We have these boys turning into fish [Jenny laughs] and here's the-" like, I just-
Jenny: That is a great point.
Kristin: I question. And also, why are the boys so agreeable getting into the cage in the library?
Jenny: Doesn't make any sense.
Kristin: There's some holes, there's some holes in this episode.
Brittany: Yeah, there's a lot of plot holes.
Jenny: Also, I mean consider high school boys being like "No", but also consider like what if one of them turns-
Brittany: While they're in it, yeah.
Jenny: And then they're all locked in together.
Kristin: Right, yeah. I guess- maybe part of this is a little bit sloppy on the writing end and maybe it's also sloppy on the Scooby end. Maybe they're just not- you know, they're not well-versed in dealing with fish monsters.
Brittany: And perhaps one of the largest missed opportunities was when thecoach, well, Carl, is talking about after the fall of the Soviet Union… one:how did he get those records? [Jenny laughs] And two: how much better would it have been if he slipped out of his American accent [Jenny and Kristin laugh loudly] and had a Russian accent?
Jenny: I also love that Buffy's like, "What's really going on here?" and he's like- and then he kind of pauses [Kristin and Brittany laugh] and stares up into the middle distance. "After the fall of the Soviet Union, documents came to light." And that was like a spi- like an end of a movie, villain spiel.
Kristin: Yeah, like a Scooby- like a Scooby Doo-
Brittany: Right.
Jenny: Oh yeah, exactly.
Kristin: Ending, you know?
Brittany: But also like a "This is way bigger than you think it is." [Kristin and Jenny laugh] "And I'm relating it to a historical context."
Jenny: "This goes all the way to the top."
Kristin: "This has ties to Russia" and we're like, goddammit. [They all laugh]
Brittany: Cannot escape.
Kristin: Where are we, once again?
Jenny: After he gets Buffy to go down the hole with the gun that he just keeps sort of loose on his desk. [Kristin laughs] She and Nurse Ruthie both are guilty of something that I don't care for, which is that they both- that water is waist deep-
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Or just solar plexus deep and they both- when they go down the hole, they both go all the way under the water. And in order to do that, they have to crouch?
Kristin: Crouch.
Jenny: So goodbye, my disbelief, I cannot suspend you for that.
Kristin: Yes, yes, yes, I see.
Jenny: But also when she's down there and Nurse Ruthie's- uh, RIP- corpse comes floating by…
Kristin: Which is not really eaten.
Jenny: Yeah, it doesn't really look like they had much to eat.
Kristin: No, it doesn't.
Brittany: Unless they just suck out her blood.
Kristin: Right but that seems more vampiric than- but who knows? We haven't really seen how they eat. But above ground…
Jenny: Ha ha ha!
Kristin: Before we get to Cordelia's beautiful moment, there's the laziest of all the sea monsters is in this scene [They all laugh]. I don't understand why- like, he comes out of the locker room and takes a lap. He just swims a lap and then at the end, Cordelia's at the end of the pool and he sort of flails his arms a little bit and they're like, 'Ah.' [Jenny laughs] And then he just goes back into the pool. I just want to know what that monster's story was.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: That he changed and he was like 'I feel like I need a swim.'
Brittany: Yeah, I think that he's just not part of the pack. He's just an outsider, that Sean or whoever it was.
Jenny: Well, Sean was just for narrative whatever, that was Shane West's character.
Brittany: Oh, was it?
Jenny: That was Shane West in this scene- I mean, I don't think it was actually- it definitely wasn't Shane West in the suit but…
Kristin: Hey, you know what? You don't know that.
Brittany: A girl can dream.
Jenny: You know what? I don't know that but we're, maybe…
Brittany: Why would you pay another actor? [Jenny laughs]
Kristin: So whatever. Shane West, lazy sea monster aside, this scene for Cordelia…
Jenny: Is the best.
Brittany: She has a lot of her best scenes when she's by herself.
Jenny: Oh my god, that is so deep.
Kristin: And it's, yeah, so true.
Jenny: That is amazing. You are doing great. [Kristin and Brittany laugh] You heard it here first.
Brittany: Yeah, I mean, I think that the largest arc moments for her are when you see her by herself and the choices that she makes when there's not pressure from everyone else. [Kristin sighs appreciatively]
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Brittany: And where she can- doesn't have to wear the mask of who she is in public.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: Wow. I'm gonna tell you what. I was going to talk about bath toys [Brittany laughs] and seeing other fish-
Brittany: Please don't let me stop you.
Kristin: No. And then it was all going to end in giving Cordelia her jingle but I would like to give Brittany Cordelia's jingle. Today.
Brittany: Wow.
Jenny: Here it is, just for you.
NOTES: [Cordelia's jingle plays] Cordelia (ah-ahhh) I love you, Cordelia (ah-ahhh) You're perfect, Cordelia (ah-ahhh)
Kristin: Brittany, thank you for allowing us to partake in that Cordelia jingle.
Brittany: Of course.
Kristin: It was really beautiful.
Jenny: Should we talk about this really unfortunate choice on the Buffy dialogue end of things?
Kristin: Go on.
Jenny: When she's down in the pit and the three monsters are closing in on her because [sarcastically] "boys have needs".
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: She says, "Just what my reputation needs, that I did it with the entire swim team."
Kristin: Yeah, I mean, that's kind of what I was talking about before. There's these weird little quips that, like- 'cause you know, that's very Buffy to make a little joke at the end but it's situated… right.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Right. So it's fucked up because of what's happening and it's also fucked up because it's a super slut shamey… thing. But it's just weird.
Jenny: It's also like, rape isn't sex.
Brittany: Right.
Jenny: You know?
Brittany: But also on a way less serious note, what is h er reputation? [Jenny and Kristin laugh] She's just weird?
Kristin: Right, that's true.
Brittany: Like, that girl gives me the creeps? Like, she's just seen as weird?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Which is how we start the episode.
Jenny: Yeah, no one's like 'she previously dated a 241-year-old vampire who is now soulless.'
Brittany: No, that's a secret.
Kristin: Yeah, people don't really interact with her is kind of the deal. People are like, 'that weird girl.'
Brittany: Right, and usually when high school boys show attention to her, or college guys, it's for some ulterior motive [Jenny laughs].
Kristin: Right, yeah. I mean, we're two for two on episodes where she's just been sitting and staring off into the distance when she's interrupted by-
Brittany: Hey, been there. [Jenny and Kristin laugh]
Kristin: Right? Just let me look at the ocean, man.
Brittany: Yeah.
Kristin: Stop talking to me. [She and Jenny laugh] I really want to talk about the actual last scene.
Jenny: Wow. It's your favorite.
Kristin: I will not let the episode- it's just… I feel like it wasn't written in, you know? Like, I feel like they had the whole episode written and it ended before this. And they were on set and they were like, 'Well, what are we really going to do with these monster costumes?'
Brittany: Where do they really want to go?
Kristin: Right? They really- we really want to take a day and they just sent- I feel like they sent two camera guys down.
Brittany: Yeah.
Kristin: No sound guy [Jenny laughs]. They were like 'Just go to the beach' and they just had them swim in the ocean and what-?
Brittany: Yeah. Well, I told you after the episode ended that it reminded me of The Craft.
Kristin: Yes.
Brittany: It had very much Craft-esque music and just the vastness of the ocean.
Kristin: The maternal nature of the ocean? Yes. A movie- one of these days, when we spin off from this podcast and go down a movie… The Craft is going to be one of the top ones on my list.
Jenny: Wow, okay.
Kristin: We just brought it up last week. That's two for two on The Craft.
Jenny: I mean, it's a worthy movie.
Kristin: It is. Did we miss anything? Does anybody want to talk about anything else?
Brittany: I just want to say that it was a dream to be here. [Jenny laughs]
Kristin: It was a dream to have you here.
Jenny: Yeah, please come back anytime.
Kristin: Literally anytime. We mean that when we say that to you. Gaby-
Jenny: No.
Kristin: Took it too far [Brittany laughs].
Jenny: She could be here right now.
Kristin: She probably is here.
Brittany: [imitating Gaby] "Hey guys!" [They all laugh] "Hello!"
Kristin: Wow, nailed it.
Jenny: Holy shit.
Kristin: Nailed it. Yes. Brittany, we know where to find you and how to make sure that you come back and talk to us about future episodes.
Brittany: Yes.
Kristin: But how can all of our listeners find you all over the place?
Brittany: Well, you guys can text me.
Kristin: Great. [Jenny laughs] 'My number is…'
Brittany: You can find me on Twitter and Instagram @britt27ash. You can listen to my podcast "Sicker Sadder World".
Kristin: And "Sicker Sadder World" is on iTunes.
Brittany: Yeah, on iTunes.
Kristin: You should check it out, it's so fun. I listened to a great story that someone was telling about drinking pee on the podcast.
Brittany: Oh, that was my co host, Laura.
Kristin: Yeah, so good content. Great content all around. [Jenny laughs]
Brittany: She wanted to cut it out too and I was like 'Nope.'
Kristin: No, and like you argued about it in the podcast and I was like 'No, no. It's staying.' I was very team Brittany on that one.
Brittany: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Wow.
Brittany: Basically in the podcast, it's me just trying to get Laura to reveal [Kristin laughs] the most embarrassing stories that she possibly can.
Jenny: Great.
Kristin: Yeah, that's kind of our dynamic, where I just try to get Jenny to talk about how she loves me and she-
Jenny: [grossed out] Ahhhhhhhhhhh!
Kristin: Doesn't like it [laughs].
Jenny: Well, thank you so much for listening and thank you so much, Brittany Ashley, for joining us on this very special day. I am Jenny Owen Youngs and when I'm not watching Buffy, I'm writing songs and recording them. You can learn more about me and hear some of those songs at jennyowenyoungs.com/buffering and you can give me a shout on Twitter @jennyowenyoungs. Also if you're on the West Coast, don't forget from June 23rd to July 1st, I will be playing a variety of shows in the westerly portion of the country. You can find out more about that at jennyowenyoungs.com/tour.
Kristin: I am Kristin Russo, you can find out more about me by following me on Twitter or Instagram @kristinnoeline. You can also learn about the work that I do over at everyoneisgay.com and mykidisgay.com, two organizations that I run to help LGBTQ young people and their families. And of course, in that same vein, you should, if you're on the East Coast near New York City, come out on June 24th to the Everyone Is Gay and Autostraddle All-Ages Pride Party at Housing Works Bookstore and Cafe from 2-4pm.
Jenny: "Buffering the Vampire Slayer" is on Twitter and Facebook @bufferingcast and you can always drop us an email at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com. We are also thrilled to be a new member of the Stitcher Premium network, where you can experience ad-free episodes of this podcast and many others. Just go to stitcherpremium.com/buffy.
Kristin: There are many ways to support our work. You can rate and review us on iTunes. That helps people find our podcast and it helps grow our community. You can also head on over and get yourself some really great Buffering t-shirts, Smash the Patriarchy t-shirts, enamel pins designed by Kate Leth. There's a whole ton of stuff over at bufferingthevampireslayer.com. Just click on Store. And of course, you can always support our work on Patreon. You can find that link also on bufferingthevampireslayer.com. We send out the music that we make every week as we make it so you get it before having to wait until the end of the season plus you get all of our jingles. You can join our private Facebook group. We have Buffywatches and we will have one coming up in July. And also, patrons are the first people to find out about when we release CDs. So the second season is coming to a close, those CDs are going to go up, always in limited quantities and we do sell out. So if you want the heads up on that, you can find out over on Patreon.
Jenny: Once again, today's episode was brought to you by Shudder. Backed by AMC Networks, Shudder grants you access to the best in thrillers, horror, and suspense, including Shudder exclusive "Sweet Sweet Lonely Girl".
Kristin: Stream them all anytime at shudder.com and use promo code 'Buffering' at checkout for a free month.
Jenny: Until next time… [Kristin and Jenny start howling]
Kristin: [whispers] No, you have to-
Brittany: Oh, sorry [laughs].
Jenny: What the fuck?
Brittany: I didn't know. [Kristin laughs] You're like, 'what the fuck?'
NOTES: [laughs]
Kristin: [laughing] We must have really good mom faces because you look like you are in so much trouble.
Jenny: I'm so sorry, I didn't prepare you.
Kristin: Look at her, she's never coming back to the show [laughs].
Jenny: [laughs] I know.
Brittany: Alright, [laughing] do it again.
Jenny: I'm so sorry. Okay, so what's going to happen is I'm going to say "'Til next time" [Kristin laughs] and then we'll all howl together.
Brittany: Cool.
Jenny: Okay. 'Til next time…
All three: Awoooooooooo!
Jenny: Much better.
Kristin: So great. [Jenny performing "Go Fish" off of the album "Songs from Season Two" by Buffering the Vampire Slayer] Something fishy has been going on And I don't know what to do 'Cause all the swim team boys are turning into Creatures from the black lagoon Well Xander saw one in the lunchroom, yeah Their menu's always a scare Based on our data, Gage is next in line So gentlemen, beware You smell like low tide And you've got fish eyes I'd rather you were fried But you're steaming in vaporized fins All for the wins Why do the jocks get special privileges? I'm ten times stronger than them (oh yeah, oh yeah) Social constructs really fuck shit up Always in favor of men (meeeennnnn) Coach Carl and Snyder think they know it all But here's a lesson that's real When winning overpowers everything You might end up as a guppy meal Or with your nose smashed on a steering wheel You smell like low tide And you've got fish eyes I'd rather you were fried But you're steaming in vaporized fins All for the wins Yeah you're steaming in vaporized fins All for the wins