Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 3.11: Gingerbread
Jenny: Hey everybody, before we get started, we have a few things to tell you!
Kristin: We do!
Jenny: We want to make sure that you remember that our next Patreon
Buffy-watch is of "Bad Girls," and it's this Saturday, December 9th at 2:00 PM Pacific. We'll be watching that amazing episode all together as a group, and chattin' it up. So if you're already a patron you know how these work. If you're not, but you wanna get into it, just go to bufferingthevampireslayer.com/patreon and you can learn everything there. Also, we just wanna shout out that our beautiful, beautiful, beautiful secret Facebook group of our Patreon patrons, just started a book club!
Kristin: A book club!
Jenny: I can't take it. They're too precious.
Kristin: You're all wonderful. Now as you know, 'tis the season
Jenny: "whatever that means…"
Kristin: So we just wanted to let you know that you should get your Buffering merchandise over in our store while you can. There's new stock that's coming in this weekend, so if you've gone in the last week and and size of the shirt that you need for your favorite, best gal-pal is not there-
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: -you can check back at the beginning of next week. That will be the last restocking that we're doing before the holiday shipping deadlines kick in, so you want to get there as soon as you can and grab what you can while you can, because some of these things will sell out. We're doing our best to keep it in stock, but heads up, ya know? If you need the "Bored Meow" t-shirt, or if you need the new, goth "Smash the Demon Lizard Patriarchy" t-shirt, or god forbid if you need the Giles pin- that one you really wanna grab, 'cause those are going like… wildfire?
Jenny: Hotcakes?
Kristin: Like hotcakes, Jenny says. So, as you probably know, bufferingthevampireslayer.com, just click on Shop, you can find out all of the details about all of that stuff. Get all your goodies while they last.
Jenny: Speaking of goodies, If you don't already you're gonna want to start following us on Twitter this week, because we're going to be doing some giveaways! We're going to be giving away some pom-hats, a set of Faith and Buffy Funko dolls, the second volume of The Watchers Guide, and more, so follow us @bufferingcast on Twitter.
Kristin: I just don't think you were as excited as you should've been about the Faith and Buffy Funko dolls. Like, you just said it, like it was like nothing…
Jenny: Well, I just- I'm just trying not to- I don't wanna impose my excitement on everyone else.
Kristin: This incredible thing is happening where you wonderful listeners are sending us things to give away. Christine, our listener, and her cats- Mary Jane, Brock and Octavius- sent us these Funko dolls so we could pass on the love. It's really incredible, and if you're a person who has some Buffy items that you don't know what to do with, you have a double set of something or what have you, you can find our mailing address on our website if you wanna send it to us, and then we will give it away to a Buffy fan out there who's just been waiting for their moment!
Jenny: Just redistributing the Buffy wealth, as it were.
Kristin: Yes! so we're gonna be doing that giveaway on Twitter this week, so get thee over to Twitter @bufferingcast. Now, something just very briefly we want to touch on from last week… So, last week we did "Amends" with Gaby Dunn and we were looking at the episode in a particular lens, because men… redemption… et cetera…
Jenny: It's just a rough time for a redemption story arc.
Kristin: Right. it was great and a lot of you were super stoked on it as were we. I think it was a really fun way of dort of internalizing a story that may have been different because of context and what have you…
Jenny: However.
Kristin: However! Some of you had wonderful things to share with us about this episode that I think are important to also talk about, so we just wanted to share apiece of an email from Jenny in Massachusetts
Jenny: [interrupting] Great name.
Kristin: -great name- that I think touches on these points. So Jenny wrote in: "I wanted to write in about amends. First, I love Gaby and I understand her anger about men, but I didn't see the episode in this same mindset that she did. I didn't see it as a man-redemption episode, instead I thought it was more closely a representation of someone struggling with depression and PTSD. I thought the song was a better representation of the message for the episode and, as a person who suffers from depression and PTSD, the song made me cry. Thank you for that message. Angel is hundreds of years old, but the years where he was a vampire shouldn't count towards his emotional age since it was literally a demon and not him. Sure he was 26 when he was turned, but it's shown that he wasn't emotionally mature at that age. He'd been ensouled for quite a number of years, but he was basically mindless and in pain until he was given his purpose of helping Buffy." So Jenny thank you for this- and Jenny actually wrote a longer email and we have a few other interesting emails we will touch on in our next Patreon Mail Bag. So if you don't know, on Patreon if you're a $10 donor you get bonus mail bags every month and a half or so, where we read these brilliant emails you all send to us. So we'll share more of Jenny's email and some of your other emails about Angel and "Amends", but I just thought these two points were important to touch on and I really do want to say that I think we should have touched on the mental health through-lines of this episode as well and we really didn't. We got carried away with like, men and bullshit.
Jenny: Sometimes Gaby Dunn comes over and she's like, on fire and you're just like, "Well, I'm combustible. Let's do this!"
Kristin: Yes, but the themes of mental health that run through this show are really important and we'll have plenty of time to talk about more of them as things go forward. But I just wanted to thank you, Jenny, and thank you to the many other of you who wrote in and said, "You know, this is how I feel about Angel and I just want to make sure that you understand that." We do. We very much do, and we will talk about it more as the season progresses.
Jenny: Also, we love Angel.
Kristin: Also we love Angel! It's like-
Jenny: Just in case that was not clear…
Kristin: Right, Angel is the character- Angel is like your big brother who you're like, [exasperated] "This guy!" but at the end of the day you're like [sweet] "but this guy!" So when you maybe listen to an episode where we're taking entirely the path of [exasperated] "This fuckin' guy…", just try to remember that we, ya know, we have a gift under our tree for Angel, too.
Jenny: Yes and we'll try to remember that too.
NOTES: [Both laughing]
Kristin: Yes, so one last thing,
Jenny: Oh my god…
Kristin: Very important.
Jenny: Squeak!
Kristin: Squeak! Squeak! We have a guest in this episode, a very special guest. It is the rat who was on the set-
Jenny: Noooo…
Kristin: No, it's not.
Jenny: That rat is probably…
Kristin: Aw, RIP Rat Amy.
Jenny: I feel pretty comfortable saying RIP Rat Amy. But real, IRL Amy, Elizabeth Anne Allen, is here to talk with us in this episode and we are so excited that we got to speak with her. She was such a peach and so great and we're really excited to share this conversation with you.
Kristin: We are! So let's get into the dang episode!
NOTES: [Theme Song]
Jenny: Hellooo and welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer: a podcast where, of course, we are watching every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer one at a time in sweet, sweet chronological order. My name is Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: And I'm Kristin Russo, and this is a spoiler-free podcast. We're gonna say that up at the top from now on.
Jenny: Oh yeahhh.
Kristin: You know, just in case there are some new people who just jumped right in Season 3…
Jenny: We're not talkin' forward.
Kristin: We're not! This week we are talking about Season 3 Episode 11:
"Gingerbread." I always want to say "Moo." I think this is Season: Faith, Episode: Moo.
Jenny: Valid.
Kristin: By our classification.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Stay tuned at the end of the podcast every week for an original song, written by us, recapping the Buffy episode we are discussing.
Jenny: "Gingerbread", wow. The credits. The story was written by Jane Espenson and Thania St. John. [struggling to find the right pronunciation] Thane-ea St. John, Ta-nia St. John.
Kristin: Uh-huh, great.
Jenny: If anybody knows, let us know. The teleplay, then, was written by Jane Espenson and was directed by James Whitmore, Jr. and originally aired on January 12, 1999. Welcome to 1999!
Kristin: Welcome to '99, everybody! You know, '98's my year, so I have, like, a special connection. '98's the year I graduated from high school, so every time we said '98, I was like "Ninety Eiiiight…" When we get to 2000, you'll feel that way, right? You graduated in 2000?
Jenny: I did.
Kristin: But '99- Buffy's year. This is Buffy's year to graduate, god damn it! According to- oh did you have more credits?
Jenny: No, no, that was all the things…
Kristin: I noticed in the credits that it said "Teleplay by Jane Espenson" and maybe before that I just hadn't said who the story was by, but that's very interesting.
Jenny: Yeah listen, we're laymen here. We don't know what we're talking about, but you've gotta imagine that…
Kristin: Well it seems like, 'cause there really is a story- let me say the description, then we'll get into the damn episode.
According to IMDB, this is the one where: "After discovering the corpses of two young children bearing a symbol linked to the occult, Joyce spearheads a campaign to rid Sunnydale of witches."
Jenny: Not a great look for Joyce in this episode.
Kristin: Welllllll, it's a great hair look, for Joyce in this episode.
Jenny: Yeah, no, no, no. Obviously she looks literally amazing.
Kristin: She looks fantastic, but not a great- yeah…
Jenny: Hate to see Joyce Summers leading a literal witch hunt.
Kristin: Yeah… before we get there, I just want to say that the teleplay, what I was saying before it makes a little bit of sense to me because there's really a story. I mean whatever there's a story in every episode of course, but the idea of, like, Hansel and Gretel being like these repetitious characters- like I could see- maybe they crafted the story together and then Jane Espenson was like, "How do I fit this into a script?"
Jenny: Right, right. The message I'm getting from you is that I need to start having a lot of lunches with television writers and just, like, bombarding them with my amazing ideas.
Kristin: Planting… yes, another idea you should get from me is that if you ever want to hear two people talk about how television is made who have never made any television, this is the place for you!
Jenny: Yeah, and there are certainly people we could've asked before hitting record…
Kristin: But would that have been as fun?
Jenny: No no no no no no no no.
Kristin: No, it would not have. Anyhow, let's get into this episode. An episode with some serious- like there's some disturbing shit in this episode. Can I get everybody excited about what's to come in this episode?
Jenny: Would you please?
Kristin: And I don't just mean a fashion update from Kate Leth, who's back with us this week-
Jenny: Hooray!
Kristin: -'Cause we're gonna get there, but we had the incredible pleasure of getting to speak with Elizabeth Anne fucking Allen!
Jenny: My word…
Kristin: Fucking is not part of her legal name. I added it because of excitement.
Jenny: Because of excitement, right right right.
Kristin: But yes, we got a chance to speak with her. We had a phone call with her where we talked to her all about playing Amy, and how she, you know, transformed into a rat… I mean it was a whole discussion!
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: And so we're going to hear from her in this episode. She was- you know, what we're coming to understand about every person on this damn show is that one is nicer than the next. Like, every p erson that we speak to is just wonderful, gracious, kind- just the best!
Jenny: Yeah, it's really outta control…
Kristin: It really is a special thing.
Jenny: Elizabeth Anne Allen was certainly no exception. What a peach.
Kristin: Anyhow, let's get into the episode.
Jenny: Good gravy! Perhaps, ya know, it's really early right out of the gates to be so disturbed, but man that's a huge bag of snacks that Joyce brought to Buffy!
Kristin: I missed it! I'm glad that you saw because I almost-
Jenny: She's got like a rotisserie chicken in there [Kristin laughing] and like, a pint of mac & cheese…
Kristin: Hey, moms know how to make a snack, I'll tell you what. Moms don't fuck around with snacks, I'll tell you what! I went to the beach like every day of my whole young childhood, 'cause I lived on Long Island at that point in time, and my aunts, my mom- they could pack a goddamn snack. Grapes, with pretzels… They would pack their own snacks that included pina coladas. Ya know, they know how to make-
Jenny: Yeah yeah, ants on a log…
Kristin: You'd have leftover chicken they'd make it into chicken salad. Put some fuckin' walnuts in that shit.
Jenny: Oh my god. There's something about leftovers. There's also something about stuff that your mom makes-
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: -that like you don't normally have.
Kristin: Something that anyone makes. Something that a person that you love makes for you…
Jenny: Oh yeah, what is it like to have someone you love make you food all the time?
Kristin: Excuse me?!
Jenny: I'm just wondering! What's it like?
Kristin: Excuse me.
Jenny: What is it like?
Kristin: Are you trying to, is this the point where you like Cordelia say, "That was a pointed comment about your taking care of me." [Jenny laughs] I make you thingsall the time: chicken salad included!
Jenny: You do, you did.
Kristin: Tell them! They think I'm a horrible wife now!
Jenny: No no no no… I was talking to Sam actually. What is it like?
Kristin: Yeah, Sam, what is it like?
Jenny: To have people feed you and dote on you and care for you all the time? And have to do nothing in return?
Kristin: Just so you have a visual, Sam sits on the little couch next to me while we record, and while we're speaking, I'm scratching her belly. She's licking my hand…
Jenny: The whole human-cat thing.
Kristin: It's a whole thing. My first note from the episodes is: "Coats!"
Jenny: [laughs] Oh 'cause it's probably like 60 degrees out there!
Kristin: It probably is like 60 degrees out there. But we talk about Buffy's trench coat collection all the time. It's just like- it still astounds me every time that she's still wearing a trench coat and Joyce is wearing- ehh, it's not even a trench coat.
Jenny: It's January!
Kristin: Yeah…
Jenny: Listen, a lot of you people who don't live here in Southern California think that it doesn't get cold here, but it really does and it's a different type of cold that chills you to the bone. It's a dry cold.
Kristin: Oh god, you can't, Jenny. Here's what I've learned living in Los Angeles, is when I didn't live in Los Angeles I made fun of everybody in Los Angeles for being cold. And now that I live here I've tried a couple times to do what you're doing. To say, "but you don't understand…"
Jenny: It's not worth it.
Kristin: It's so not worth it because, you know what? When I was on the other side I could have never heard me talking to me.
Jenny: Nope.
Kristin: It's no use.
Jenny: They'll never understand us.
Kristin: And we made a joke of it literally in our rendition of "Buffy It's Cold Outside" just last week.
Jenny: Right. Right. Right. Okay, so back to Mr. Sanderson from the bank. I love that Joyce can recognize Mr. Sanderson, even though he's got fresh vamp face.
Kristin: Yeah yeah, Joyce can see right through that vamp face. Yeah, Mr. Sanderson from the bank. Also like, Joyce's role in this is very amazing-
Jenny: Ri-hi-hight…
Kristin: You know like "So, honey, kill him! He's over here now!" [Jenny laughs] I wish-
Jenny: [laughs] She's there to be supportive. She's clearly like trying to help, thinks she's helping, is not helping at all.
Kristin: Is not helping. I wish we would get a few more scenes of Joyce trying to help Buffy, you know? It's just a great exchange.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah.
Kristin: And then we go to what I call Dru's Playground.
Jenny: Oh my gosh, the first time we were watching this, Kristin was like, [singing] "This used to be Dru's playground."
Kristin: OK, that was a horrible rendition of the song.
Jenny: How does the melody go?
Kristin: It goes, [singing correctly] "This used to be Dru's playground. Used to be… This used to be Dru's childhood dream." [Jenny laughing] I think I actually changed the lyrics when I first sang it to be like, "This is the place she ran to whenever she wanted kids to scream," or something like that.
Jenny: Right, right, something like that. It's good to know I can successfully get you to sing something by singing it wrong.
Kristin: Oh, sure, like you did that on purpose.
Jenny: Hahahaha…
Kristin: Slowly over the course of the next eight years with this podcast, you'll learn that I'm the true singer!
NOTES: [Both laughing]
Kristin: I have a note about Joyce's hair looking incredible, and my notes are: "Dru's Playground", "Joyce's hair looks amazing," and then, "Dead kids" and then "Credits." That was the extent of the notes I took.
Jenny: Yeah, there's two, uh, two little kids.
Kristin: Yeah, and I did write "dead kids" for a reason, because I would've remembered that there were two dead kids, but I wanted to talk about the fact that I think, what I said to Jenny while I was watching was, this is the first time that we've seen dead kids, and she said, "Well, we did see the Anointed One-"
Jenny: Get killed.
Kristin: There was a through line, a plotline of dead kids in Der Kinderstadt, "I'm gonna Der Kinder-stop you…" Whatever that one's called…
Jenny: Oh yeah, right of course. But we never saw any of those kids, we just heard about it.
Kristin: But we didn't see- we just heard about, you know her cousin dying. We sort of saw it about to happen, but we never saw a dead kid.
Jenny: Right, right, right, right.
Kristin: So, it is a big deal. It's a big deal for us as viewers. It's a big deal for Sunnydale as a populace.
Jenny: Apparently, it's a really big deal for Sunnydale.
Kristin: Very big deal. And so this is like, not to get in too deep too fast here, but this is like a thing, right? This is how our society functions. It's always, "save the children." The children are- and it's called out a little bit in this episode, 'cause Buffy's like, "Ya know, I know that it's fucked up that kids died, but what? Did Mr. Sanderson have it coming?" Like, you know what I mean?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Why does it become- there's this like combination of innocence and-
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: You know and like, I understand. I'm certainly not advocating for children to die here, but I think it's important to look at the way that themes like this are pulled out in our society to get people to act in mob mentality ways. You know?
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: Like, I'm thinking specifically of like pro-life movements, and things like this that it becomes such a panic that- children are innocent and they cannot help themselves, so we must help them. That it really has ignited in this country, and plenty of other countries across the world, mentalities like we see in this episode. So sorry. I know, you just settled in-
Jenny: Kristin wants the kids to die!
Kristin: Down with children! Down with children! There's a theory book I read when I was in grad school called No Future by Lee Edelman. And it really stuck with me, because one of the big through-lines in this book talks about this. I think it's the book where he talks about Scrooge and the figure of the old man, like the old, lonely man always being evil and the plight of children and "Do it for the children!" being, like, you know, these tropes that we see in the world that really root so much of what we see people going after.
Jenny: Right, right, right. Uh-huh, Uh-huh.
Kristin: That is not always great. Often times, most times, not great. Not so great. Lee Edelman! No Future. Gender Theory! [Jenny laughing] Brought to you in the first five minutes of your fun-loving podcast, Buffering the Vampire Slayer. Hooray!
Jenny: So Joyce is so shook up. We see Buffy kind of be in the mom role here, where she's just like, "I'm gonna take care of it. I promise. I'm gonna figure out who hurt these kids, and you don't have anything to worry about," and comforting Joyce. And then immediately we cut to her in the library with Giles and she's like, "I'm flippin' out!"
Kristin: Yeah. I love that.
Jenny: Yes totally. Yes totally.
Kristin: I liked how they really underlined how-
Jenny: -the emotional hierarchy of the Summers and Giles dynamic?
Kristin: Totally! Right? Buffy takes care of Joyce, and Giles takes care of Buffy…
Jenny: Aw!
Kristin: Who's taking care of Giles?
Jenny: I don't know!
Kristin: Cordelia!
Jenny: [laughing] Yes.
Kristin: So, I love when we first come out of the credits and we go back to the playground, there's this really awesome photography scene. It's like they use the black-and-white police photos to sort of establish the kids and the symbols on the kids, and I just thought it was a really nice edit.
Jenny: Very effective.
Kristin: Yeah, very effective. Really made it feel like a crime scene. For once the Sunnydale police are following procedure of some kind.
Jenny: Yeah. Just this one time! Just for the kids!
Kristin: And something before we move away from that playground scene with Buffy and Joyce. I just want to call out a quote that Joyce says to Buffy, and we hear this throughout the episode, right? "You can't make it right." Joyce says, "You can't make it right." And we'll get into more of what Joyce has to say to Buffy later. Just want to say that's like a very- and you see it on Buffy's face…
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: A few of the things that Joyce says to her really are pulling out some internal conflicts that she's having.
Jenny: Wait, what do you mean? What kind of internal conflict do you feel like is playing out on Buffy's face right there?
Kristin: Well, I think that she is wanting to comfort her mom, but she understands that what Joyce is saying is- there's pieces of truth in it. That she can't make those kids come back to life. And then later- fine, I'll just get into it right now Jenny.
Jenny: Sure.
Kristin: You know Joyce is saying later on, "You know, you don't have a plan. You just react to things." Basically like, "the bad is just going to keep coming. What are you going to do? You're not rooting out the evil. You're just fighting the evil." And that's why she has this scene with Angel, and I think we'll talk about this more when we get to the scene, but you know it's just meaningful in that I think Buffy is going through a little bit of a reckoning with this. Not with the mob mentality, and the, you know-
Jenny: Stake-burning?
Kristin: -burning people at the stake and going through students' lockers and things like that, but I think that she's having a little bit of a reckoning with, "What am I doing?" You know?
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: And Angel- we'll talk about it when we get there, because I want to talk about what Angel says to Buffy and all that good stuff, for now, let's just- We went to the library. We saw the green mug.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah. What's up, mug?
Kristin: We see it all the time now but I just want to like- it's our favorite mug.
Jenny: It's nice to see it.
Kristin: So, speaking of our mug, I don't know if you noticed but we have a new Giles pin that has sold faster than any pin that we have had ever.
Jenny: Yeah. "Randy for Giles," just flying off the shelves!
Kristin: Flying, flying off the shelves. So if you did miss that, it's in our store bufferingthevampireslayer.com, click on shop, and if there are any left they will be there for you, if you too are randy for Giles.
Jenny: Meanwhile.
Kristin: meanwhile…
Jenny: Poor, poor Xander.
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: On the lunch line with Oz-
Kristin: A phrase uttered so infrequently on this podcast!
Jenny: Yeah, yeah I know, but he's having such a time! He's just crushed under the weight of his own guilt, and also I think he's had it with being crushed under the weight of his own guilt and projecting, you know, whatever. I mean Oz is a- he's a blanket of new fallen snow. [Kristin laughs] You could project whatever you want onto Oz and it can be made very believable.
Kristin: 100%. I was gonna say you can project whatever you want onto Oz, but boy was I not gonna give us that beautiful visual. A blanket of fallen snow! But right. If you think Oz is mad at you, it can seem like Oz is mad at you.
Jenny: Yeah, exactly.
Kristin: If you think Oz is in love with you? Totally you can put that there, too.
Jenny: So getting to watch this interaction between Xander and Oz where Xander is basically flailing all his tentacles everywhere and not knowing what to say is pretty funny.
Kristin: Yeah, and it's a good episode for Oz and Xander. You know, they have their own little arc.
Jenny: Yeah, they come together by the end.
Kristin: They do! They come together and fall right through a ceiling together. It's very endearing.
Jenny: But hey! Amy got a haircut.
Kristin: Amy got a haircut, and we're gonna hear about Amy's haircut in our interview with Elizabeth Anne Allen very soon. But lookin' great, Goth Amy! That's what I have to say.
Jenny: 100%.
Kristin: Right?
Jenny: Yes. And so Buffy pops up to the table, right? And sits down with everyone, and she's telling them about what happened at the playground, and she's like, "My mom, like, she's wigging," and [laughing] Joyce swoops in and is like, "Who's wigging?". Joyce, wigging. You know what I mean? She's, like, wigging, asking who's wigging.
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah. Also like, she literally only came to school to talk to Buffy? Like, she just… came by?
Jenny: Yeah, she didn't- she wasn't there to spread the word right? She already called everyone she knows…
Kristin: Right. So, she was just there to be like, "Did this stuff, honey! I am involved! I'm so involved." And we also get the first seedlings of hearing about Willow's mom.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: When Buffy sits down and Willow's like, "You know, it sucks that your mom's getting so involved, but it's nice that your mom is involved."
Jenny: At all.
Kristin: "Like your mom would take the time to go patrolling with you. I mean I know that it's an inconvenience but…"
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: That's so sad! And there's also this wonderful moment with Joyce and the witches.
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: Right, when she's like, "You know, I think it's witches," and Willow and Amy are both like-
Jenny: "Brhrm, ahem, ahem."
Kristin: [laughs] Everyone on this show knows how to play it cool.
Jenny: Yeah, everybody is doing great. And then like Buffy is like, "Well, let me get Joyce out of here, because she's freakin' everybody out." They go out in the hallway, they're talking, and, like, Joyce is like, "I told everyone," and Buffy's like, "Oh, great! But actually… you know when we're investigating something we usually try to keep it on the… whatever." And I just, like, had this extreme moment- I don't know if we talked about this before but, like, in that conversation, Buffy is a Rachel? Buffy is a total-
Kristin: Buffy is a Rachel from Friends?
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: [laughs] Go on…
Jenny: I don't know, just like her inflection and mannerism and the pausing, and, like, everything that she does which made me think like, in a larger context, is Buffy a Rachel?
Kristin: Wow… Well, I'm a Rachel.
Jenny: I don't even know what a Rachel is!
Kristin: I'm a Rachel/Monica hybrid.
Jenny: Mmm, well I know about your Monica parts.
Kristin: Ye- wow, what's that supposed to mean!?
Jenny: I just know that Monica likes to be in control of things-
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: -of factors.
Kristin: Getting. Fucking. Deep here today on Buffering the Vampire Slayer.
Jenny: Listen, Kristin Russo is the master of her own destiny, and she sees what she wants… the shape of the world to be, and then she makes it happen.
Kristin: That's true. That is true.
Jenny: You're a very powerful woman!
Kristin: [laughs] You all got to hear the way that Jenny gets out of getting in trouble.
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: Live on air.
Jenny: Rapaba dapa ba bah!
Kristin: [imitates Jenny] What I was trying to say is, "you're powerful and you look pretty today."
Jenny: Mmm I mean, we know Xander is Chandler and that's all-
Kristin: That's a given.
Jenny: That's all I know for sure, and we don't have to talk about it anymore right now. But for those of you who watch the episode after you listen to us, just watch Buffy talking to her mom in that hallway and think about Rachel Green. So… um… boy, Willow's mom doesn't know… Buffy's name.
Kristin: Yo, Willow's mom, Sheila
Jenny: Is such a bummer. Sheila!
Kristin: Sheila… uh… she… is… I know Sheilas. Do you know Sheilas, in your life?
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Right, like, people who- Here's the thing, is like- Sheila has a lot to say! Sheila has a lot to say. She's very smart. She's very studied.
Jenny: Sure.
Kristin: She has opinions about- can we just- can we just go there? 'Cause my favorite Sheila line in the whole damn episode is when she's talking to Willow later on and she says, you know, "I didn't want you watching Mr. Rogers because of the patriarchal bias."
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: Or, well, Willow says, "You didn't want me watching Mr. Rogers because of the patriarchal bias." And Sheila comes back with, "Well, King Friday was just lording over all of those other puppets." And so I have a little soft spot for Sheila.
Jenny: Totally.
Kristin: Let's give a Patriarchy Jingle out to Sheila.
NOTES: [Patriarchy Jingle plays] The patriarchy! [thunder clap, evil laughter]
Kristin: Didn't think that you'd get a jingle, did ya, Willow's mom? But you got one for your sweet patriarchal callout. Does anybody else remember King Friday as much as I do?
Jenny: I just- mostly from watching this episode.
Kristin: I looked up the pic- just like hearing it, I could see the picture of King Friday in my mind.
Jenny: Right. You looking up that picture- that puppet's a lot freakier than I remember it.
Kristin: Yeah!
Jenny: I was picturing a yarn kind of puppet, but it's…
Kristin: No, no. It's a very realistic, but also not… Anyway, what I was gonna say about Willow's mom is that she knows all this stuff. She knows a lot of science and a lot of facts, and she sort of is, like, applying that to her parenting, but is just not paying attention to any of what is-
Both: -actually right in front of her.
Kristin: Right. And so, it's really… It's just a bummer. It reminded me, too, of sometimes, like, working with people… This is outside of a parenting environment, but working with people who do activism work or who are, like in grad school or going to get their doctorates, where they're so steeped in the theory that you can't have a conversation with them about how the theory applies to actual life. And that there's no-
Jenny: -oh, like praxis, you mean?
Kristin: Yeah. I taught Jenny this word, 'cause it was my favorite word that I ever learned in grad school. When I was learning about a ton of theory, I was really frustrated because I felt like I didn't understand how it applied. And I took this one class and my professor talked about praxis, which is when you apply theory to real life. Then it's praxis. It becomes something different. Of course, none of us can live in the world of theory. I mean, theory is just a bunch of words put together to help crack our brains open so we can process reality differently. But Willow's mom is stuck in that place. She's just sort of off in the clouds and is unable to, like, take what she's learning- really important, cool stuff! Like, about the way her kid is growing up and things that her kid is going through. That's all useful information.
Jenny: But your kid isn't a textbook.
Kristin: Right. Which is what Willow is trying so desperately… And this is heartbreaking, the way that Willow is trying to talk to her mom. Because Willow- what we see, I think, a couple of times in this episode, is Buffy is really parenting Joyce. And we see Willow really, like, parenting… I mean, parenting her mother in the sense of, like, she's the one that's saying, "Hey, mom. I'm right here." You normally wouldn't see that. Normally, you'd see the parent saying, "I'm right here. What do you want to talk about?" And the kid's like, "Screw you. Don't- Leave me alone."
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: And Willow's not like that. Anyhow, let's go back to the vigil. We're really-
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: I guess we're very excited about this episode.
Jenny: Sheila thinks Buffy's name is Bunny. Bunny Summers!
Kristin: [laughing] Which is a great name!
Jenny: Great name.
Kristin: It is a great name. And a very important moment here at the vigil, maybe the most important out of the whole episode… [Jenny laughs] "Mrs. Joyce," first of all, is what Giles calls Joyce.
Jenny: Ha ha ha ha!
Kristin: 'Cause he's so flummoxed.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah. He's havin' a time.
Kristin: "Mrs. Joyce… not since, um…" And Sheila, I think, says something about there being rumors. And Giles is like, "Ruh-ruh-rumors?!"
Jenny: [overlapping] "Rumors? About us? Brrah! …Oh, yes. Witches. Yes, let's discuss."
Kristin: Ah… I think the town motto of Sunnydale is, "Sunnydale: we don't play it cool." You know?
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: Just, none of them can hold it together.
Jenny: I feel like the mayor does a great job of-
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: -being a believable… compassionate mayor.
Kristin: Yes! "Never again," says the mayor.
Jenny: Yep, yep.
Kristin: "Never again shall we see anything like this. We'll take action."
Jenny: Very sober.
Kristin: And then, Joyce takes the stage…
Jenny: [groans] Joyce!
Kristin: Let's play a part of Joyce's speech. I just think it's really great. I think what she says is- you know, even though it's rooted in something that's going to take a terrifying turn, I think we should talk about it.
NOTES: [clip from episode plays]
Joyce: I was supposed to lead us in a moment of silence, but silence is this town's disease. For too long, we've been plagued by unnatural evils. This isn't our town anymore. It belongs to the monsters and the witches and the slayers. [pause] I say, it's time for the grown-ups to take Sunnydale back. I say we start by finding the people who did this and making them pay.
NOTES: [applause]
Kristin: Right, so, here's what I-
Jenny: Strong start!
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: "Not gonna take a moment of silence because silence is this town's disease!"
Kristin: Right?!
Jenny: Great. Great. Great.
Kristin: Amen, Joyce! That's a great stance, if you take it by itself. If you you just carry it over here-
Jenny: But you know what's not great?
Kristin: No. What? Tell me.
Jenny: Uh… "This town isn't ours anymore. It belongs to the monsters, and the witches, and the slayers!" [yelling] How dare you, Joyce?!
Kristin: Right?
Jenny: [still yelling] How dare you?! [calming down] How many times has Buffy saved your life?
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah. Joyce goes real… I mean that was… We tweeted out about the fact that we were recording this episode and so many of you said, "I'm just upset that Joyce turns so… that she turns such a hard corner." But it's underlining what we talked about at the beginning of the episode. It's just this mob mentality and how when you infuse people's fears, and Joyce is a mother…
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: Before Hansel and Gretel circa 1649 start telling her to do things, the catalyst for her is seeing those children in the playground, that they have died. And that would affect anyone, but this is playing on Joyce's fears. We've seen how afraid Joyce is of Buffy dying, of losing her child.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: And so those are the things that are informing her, and so she feels that this is the best thing that she can do. I kind of have an understanding at this point in the episode of what she's doing. She's saying, "Screw this!" You were talking about me being a Monica, you know?
Jenny: [soft chuckle]
Kristin: She's saying, "I have to do this! Nobody else is going to do it, and people are dying! I need to get involved."
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: She shouldn't have gotten involved, but I get-
Jenny: [laughing] It's… regrettable.
Kristin: I get why. At this juncture, I get why she is saying… doing the things she's doing, and feeling like it's so important that she say the things that she's saying.
Jenny: Yeah. Also, I feel like the show wouldn't be doing its job if we didn't see Joyce turn on Buffy at least one time.
Kristin: Right. Totally. Well, this is time number two, at least, that Joyce has turned on Buffy. I mean, she threw her out of the damn house at the end of last season.
Jenny: Right. Right. Let us never forget.
Kristin: [laughs]
Jenny: So then we are made to believe and feel that something… [spookily] evil is going on! First we see… who's this goth guy in black lipstick? And then… Oh my god! He's with Amy! And then… [high pitched] Oh my god! It's Willow! And they're all wearing [spookily] black robes and casting spells with lots of bones laying around!
Kristin: [laughs]
Jenny: [getting excited] And the symbol! That was on the children's hand! It's in the middle of them. It's huge on the floor! Huge! Whose floor is that?!
Kristin: I know!
Jenny: Who's going to clean that up?!
Kristin: It's really beautifully done, I think. They did a great job on the symbol.
Jenny: Yeah, beautiful.
Kristin: But, right, gasp, and then I'm sure we cut to commercial if we're watching in the 90's.
Jenny: Yes, yes, yes.
Kristin: But instead of cutting to commercial…
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: We've met Michael, haven't we?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Michael looking great in that black lipstick.
Jenny: Most def.
Kristin: And I think now we should cut to Kate Leth.
NOTES: [Kate Leth Intro Jingle] It's time for our friend, Kate, to give you the Buffy Fashion Update!
Kate: Welcome back to Buffy Fashion Watch! Let me preface this by saying: this is not a great episode for fashion. It's a great episode for… you know, weird, dead, demon children and an exploration of mob mentality, but there's not a lot going on outside of Willow's red overalls and Cordelia's faux fur-necked sweater, which is… pretty choice.
So I want to take a moment to talk about my favorite character in this episode: Michael! Sunnydale High's only goth! He shows up for a minute, but what a minute it is! From his box-dyed black hair to his well-blended eyeliner, despite what anyone says, he's the star of the show for me. And he's rocking a look that a lot ofpeople have trouble with: black lipstick. So I thought I'd take a second to talk about how to achieve this oft-imitated but challenging makeup look.
NOTES: [chimes and a child-like voice saying, "Wow!"] If your lips are chapped, try lip scrub first. Black lipstick or any dark lipstick is going to accentuate that, so give that a shot, wipe it off, and then put on a non-greasy lip balm, like Burt's Bees, and blot off any extra with a tissue. Next step is one you may have to try a few times before you nail it, which is lip liner. With dark lipsticks, I highly recommend liner. You don't need it, but it keeps your lipstick from spreading and makes it look just a little bit more professional. If you can't find a black lip liner, although NYX has one for about 4 bucks that I really like, [whispers] that's N-Y-X, they're great, you can use a black pencil eyeliner. Just make sure to sharpen it and wipe it with a makeup remover or alcohol before and after so you don't spread germs between your eyes and mouth. That's gross. When you finish, apply your black lipstick. I like to use a lip brush for control over the application, but it's not necessary. When your first coat is on, blot again with a tissue, and then apply another. The last step, which is optional, but recommended, is to dust on a setting powder to really lock in that color and keep it from smudging. I use a Ben Nye powder I got for Halloween makeup, but everyone from MAC to Neutrogena sells them. They're really useful, too, if you find yourself getting sweaty throughout the day, or you use cream makeup. Just a tip! Another hot tip for this, and any lip color, is to put your thumb between your lips and press down, then pull it out, and wipe it off with a tissue. It sounds… perverted, but I swear, there's a point. It actually takes off all the lipstick on the inside of your lip, which it what keeps it from getting on your teeth. I do this all the time, and it really works. Once you have all that done, voila! You're rocking a next level goth look, which I feel everybody should try, even once, no matter what your skin tone or your fashion sense. It's really fun and it makes you feel a little more daring for a while. If you are going to wear it, bring your lipstick and your liner with you outside. Don't try to eat chicken wings. Trust me on this one. Until next time, I'll see you at the mall!
NOTES: [Kate Leth Outro Jingle] That was our friend, Kate. She gave you the Buffy Fashion Update!
Jenny: Kate Leth! God bless us, everyone!
Kristin: Goth bless us, everyone!
NOTES: [both laughing]
Jenny: It's always just an inspiration, really. I learn so much.
Kristin: Yeah, Jenny is about to leave and go apply
Jenny: When we first listened, Oh my god. When we first listened to this edition of Buffy Fashion Watch, starring Kate Leth, Kristin and I were like, sitting in different parts of the room and texting Kate while we were listening to it. And we realized that we individually put or thumbs into our mouths and pressed our lips down like she instructs you to do. Separately, not looking at each other, we were both just like testing it out like "oh, interesting".
NOTES: [Kristin laughs]
Jenny: It was very effective.
Kristin: So what we're saying is Kate Leth got both of us to suck our thumbs.
Jenny: That's what happened.
Kristin: She's tricking us. She's tricking us all!
Jenny: Yeah, and that was totally the first time that happened.
NOTES: [Kristin laughs]
Kristin: So, thank you, Kate, for that beautiful lipstick lesson.
Jenny: Mmm, yes.
Kristin: So right, so we come out and we go to school, and we see now bully- the bullies are- The parenting is trickling down, the trickle down effect is happening. Parents are telling the kids "witches are the reason for all of this shit", and the kids are going to school and they're like "I know who the fucking witches are, they're the kids in black lipstick." Of course!
Jenny: Sure. Of course!
Kristin: We're always so identifiable. You know, why do we do that? I say as a former goth teen who also was a witch.
Jenny: Uh huh.
Kristin: I was!
Jenny: No, I know, I know!
Kristin: I've I talked about it. Have talked about it on the podcast?
Jenny: Certainly.
Kristin: Yes, I practiced Wicca. I could also call on the elements.
Jenny: Float any pencils?
Kristin: I could never float a pencil, but watching Willow I'm like, maybe I didn't take that shit far enough, you know? Because I do believe I carry within me the power to do those things.
Jenny: You certainly carry a great deal of power within you.
Kristin: I think that I could make a pencil spin, but then I get scared of it - my thing was that I always got scared of it.
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: You know, like as I would feel energy, I would be like, I don't think so, never mind! I would tap dance out of the room, (singing) yah-da-da-da-da. (laughs) No thank you witchcraft!
NOTES: [Jenny laughs]
Kristin: So the bullies are after Michael, and Amy stands up for Michael, and thebully's like Jenny: And dude's like, you're next! Get in my face, see what happens.
Kristin: Right? I think Amy thought she was gonna play the I'm a girl card, and the bully was like, "Oh yeah? Fuckin…"
Jenny: The Patriarchy recedes into the background…
Kristin: Witches have no gender here, is basically what the bully said. And then Buffy - I love this moment.
Jenny: So great.
Kristin: Because we don't really see how Buffy relates to the rest of the school very often.
Jenny: Most of the time, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: We've seen her defend people here and there, but, like, has the rumor gotten out and it's confirmed in this scene that, yes, it has.
NOTES: [Jenny laughs]
Kristin: The rumor has fucking gotten out. She doesn't lift a finger she just fucking leans over and looked at this guy and he's like, "We were just… leaving."
Jenny: [laughs] No problem here.
Kristin: Right? It's great.
Jenny: So Cordelia has a warning for Buffy, kind of…
Kristin: [laughs]
Jenny: She's like, "Stay away from the witches, because you'll have no rest if you're watching their backs, because people are coming for 'em. That's what happens when you hang out with losers. That was a pointed comment."
Kristin: "Believe me, I know." [both laugh]
Jenny: Yeah! Which also, we should say, is mean! It's very mean! But it's also very funny.
Kristin: It's so funny, Cordelia has a great episode this episode.
Jenny: The doubling back, doubling down, to say,"'just so you know, I'm insulting you…"
Kristin: Right, cause Buffy's, like, not affected by it enough for Cordelia's liking. So then we go, and Xander and Buffy have this conversation about illicit smooches… who cares? I mean, sorry, I didn't care, I, whatever, I get it, we're progressing along a plotline but I would like to get to the part where Buffyuncovers
Jenny: Ha ha ha ha!
Kristin: The symbol
Jenny: In Willow's notebook.
Kristin: Right, and Willow doesn't know to be worried because Willow's not doing anything wrong, and Willow has this great line, which let's play Willow's line here.
NOTES: [clip from episode plays]
Buffy: What is this?
Willow: A doodle. I do doodle. You too, you do doodle too.
Jenny: I'm sorry, what was that?
Kristin: I do doodle. I doodle. I do do do doodle doodle. You can doodle too, doodle. A doodle doodle doo.
Jenny: Kristin, that is not what she said.
Kristin: That's what she said. [both laugh]
Jenny: So, Buffy's suspicions are peaked. But she doesn't have time to get into it because oh my God, it's a locker search!
Kristin: Yeah, yo this is fucked up!
Jenny: Did this ever happen at your school for any reason?
Kristin: Yeah yeah, we had - I mean, it didn't happen like this, where they searched everyone's locker.
Jenny: They would just go into a specific person's locker?
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Is that better or worse?
Kristin: Well, it was always like somebody said somebody brought a gun to school,and then they would Jenny: It was always that? That happened a lot?
Kristin: Well, it didn't happen a lot - I mean, I remember it happening - I think I just remember it happening, it happened more than one time.
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: and then they would search that student's locker. PS, they never found any guns as far as I know. It was always, like, people would talk and that was the protocol so they'd go into lockers. Which I feel like is a legitimate reason to maybe open a locker, you know? I think if there's any reason, that would be one.
Jenny: I mean you shouldn't - Buffy makes a point about lockers and privacy and whatever, which, okay. But by her logic you should be able to like, keep a gun in your locker if you feel… you know what I mean?
Kristin: Well, right, fine, but I think what she's saying, and that's why I even hesitated about, well, I guess that's a legitimate reason to search a locker, 'cause people could be in danger, but that's essentially what the reasoning is for this locker search is, like, they feel people are in danger, from witches. It's a different situation, but still. And I think Buffy's point - I mean Snyder has this- yes Jenny?
Jenny: Sorry, I just want to be very clear. I don't want to be surveilled. I don't want to be searched. I don't want anybody in my business at all. I'm not saying this feels fine. I'm just saying don't be an idiot and take something to school that you very clearly should not have there.
Kristin: Right, which does not include herbs which you should be able to have in your fucking locker.
Jenny: Yeah, you should be allowed to have some sage in your locker! You freaks.
Kristin: But it is like, Snyder has this comment where he's like, "Glorious day for principals everywhere. No whining about students' rights!' And Buffy, later on, to Joyce says the first fucking syllable in this word is lock. And it really pulls out a larger problem, which is how we disrespect the privacy of young people that, like, we tell them you have to grow up, and become an adult. But then of the same token, lines are crossed when it comes to high school students, middle school students, young people in general, that would not be crossed in the way that they are if it were an office building, you know, a group of adults. There's really a power play here, of, like, we're the grown-ups and you're the kids, so even though we told you this is your locker and your property, it's not. And that's fucked up.
Jenny: Do you remember in high school, having a perception that eventually you would be an adult and in a position of power?
Kristin: Yeah, and now I realize that was a lie. I will never feel like an adult at all, I will always feel like I'm in high school. You know what I mean? it just feels the same. It's just that now I have to pay bills.
Jenny: [begrudgingly] Yes.
Kristin: [laughs] Anyhow, and then they take Amy! And then they take Willow! But before they take Willow, we find out that Cordelia uses imported, $45 hairspray.
Jenny: What did you think she uses?
Kristin: Yeah, you're right. Who would ever see Cordelia at a CVS?
Jenny: No, never. But also the police confiscate a huge bunch of garlic. Garlic! The most precious of all… spices? Herbs? What is it?
Kristin: Really? Is that your declaration or just the general opinion in the spice community?
Jenny: It's just a very important piece of produce and how dare you sir? How dare you?
Kristin: Yeah. They're taking everything that's not a school book, I think. You know, not a pencil or a schoolbook.
Jenny: Right, which leads us directly into the next scene, Where listen! Giles I told you - I told you! The public school library is absolutely no place for books about blood rites. It really is not how- You fool! You should've seen it coming! So many things happen in this room, and I understand, it's for the sake of convenience, and whatever. But we're always having meetings in the library at night, when vampires can bust in.
Kristin: Because they're students! They're students! There has to be a central location that they can justifiably be! They can't just always be going to Giles' house, because fucking- people would be suspicious.
Jenny: I know, I know, I know, but
Kristin: It's not Giles' fault! It's the police's fault! Down with the police, up with the librarians, that's what I say!
Jenny: Look, I am all for up with Giles. 100% up. I'm just saying maybe not the best move.
Kristin: Right, fine, but you know what Jenny
Jenny: Out in the open! All that's left is the dictionary and My Friend Flicka afterthey get
Kristin: Right, My Friend Flicka, it's a book we looked up, it's a book about a horse. But here's the thing, you're making a lot of points, but you're like, playing devil's advocate. And I feel like at the end of the day, our podcast's stance is that fuck censorship and fuck raiding people's lockers, and fuck all that shit. And I know you feel that way.
Jenny: 100%.
Kristin: But you keep being like, "but I told you, Giles, maybe you shouldn't have the books there!" and you're like "but it's school, so you shouldn't trust anybody to not raid your locker!" And I'm just saying, watch it, Jennifer.
Jenny: I'm just saying, Big Brother is watching you, make smarter choices. Protect your book collection.
Kristin: Oh God, well, speaking of Big Brother, in walks Snyder.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: In walks Snyder, on this line that Jenny and I could not understand what Giles was saying, so we had to look it up. "Twisted little homunculus," is that how you pronounce it?
Jenny: Yeees.
Kristin: And we looked it up, and it comes from - what do you call it apothecary? Apothe - apothecary. And in apothecarian times [Jenny laughs] This is great, guys. When you practiced apothecary, in the olden days, they would paint little pictures on the bottles, and so this lore came up around it of these small bottle-sized people.
Jenny: Miniature human beings.
Kristin: Homunculuses. So this is like a fucking librarian dig and a half.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: This is one of those digs that you don't even know is a dig, cause you're like, what? Did you just sneeze?
Jenny: I don't even recognize the word you just said, so I won't be able to remember it to look it up to see if you insulted me or not.
Kristin: But then, guys. Then, Snyder says to Giles, "So fierce!" He like, fucking literally should have a hanky. Like he's holding a hanky to his chest. "So fierce! Librarian. So fierce, Mr. Giles." I put them in the running for a sexual tension award, for this scene.
Jenny: Wow, they're nominated? Noted. And then of course, on his way out, Snyder drops the bomb that there's a new organization in town calling the shots. They're called MOO. Mothers Opposed to the Occult.
Kristin: MOO, Fucking MOO.
Jenny: And Buffy's like, what fucking jackwagon came up with that acronym? [Kristin laughs] And Snyder's like…
Kristin: Your mom!
Jenny: Your mom! Oh no, Joyce, too involved! Too involved.
Kristin: Right, Joyce is busy hanging up all of her posters of dead children around her house. [Jenny laughs] But before we go there, we go to Willow's and this is the scene we've already sort of talked about here, but it's just such a bummer. I drew a sad - it got a sad emoticon from me in my notes.
Jenny: Awww.
Kristin: Because it's just sad to see how disaffected her mom is about any of the emotions that she's feeling. "I'm not an age group, I'm the Willow group," she says.
Jenny: Yeah, so Willow's parents are both therapists, right? That's the deal?
Kristin: I believe that's the, yeah, I believe that's the deal.
Jenny: Must be tough to have therapists for parents. Well, I guess it's either tough or really great or maybe great and tough.
Kristin: Yeah, I mean I'm sure that people can be therapists and still… be people, you know?
Jenny: And be human beings.
Kristin: I have a feeling those two things can overlap.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: But luckily, I mean, I would want for Willow to have a wonderful home life but the one good thing that comes out of her mom being totally disaffected is her going on this I'm a rebel rant [Jenny laughs]. "Come fill me with your black naughty evil." she says. She has this whole big wonderful monologue and one of the best parts, I think, do you know what it is Jenny?
Jenny: Yes, I think I do.
Kristin: Tell us.
Jenny: Well, she's listing all the things that she is and can do. "I'm a rebel, I'm having a rebellion, I'm a witch, I can make pencils float, I can summon the four elements, well two but I'm working on it and soon it will be four. "And I'm dating a musician!" Which is the only part that gets a response from Sheila Rosenberg which is…
Kristin: "Oh, Willow."
Jenny: "Oh… Willow. You're just saying things to hurt me now."
Kristin: Right, oh good.
Jenny: How dare you Sheila, you know what?
Kristin: What?
Jenny: My three word review of this entire episode is how dare you?
Kristin: I thought it was gonna be four, how dare you Sheila?
Jenny: No! Because it's not just limited to Sheila and how dare you everyone.
Kristin: Yes, so speaking of how dare you, here we are with Joyce getting called out by Buffy on her fucking choice of acronym, which is is nice.
Jenny: The acronym, hilarious. But also what the fuck mom? We need those books to find the fucking people or beings responsible for the death of these children you claim to be so concerned about. How could you take away our resources, what's wrong with you?
Kristin: Right, and then we learn that Joyce is not just going off the deep end here, Joyce is being spoken to by evil babies.
Jenny: [laughs] Creepy dead children… hanging around in the house.
Kristin: Yo, these kids ooooh, a lot of powder on their faces, they are creeeeeeeepy.
Jenny: Yeah, great job.
Kristin: Great job being total creeps.
Jenny: And then they have this whole conversation where Joyce is like evil you know pops up and then you undo it but are you really making Sunnydale better? You defeat evil and then there's more evil so you know, you're not as effective as maybe what she thinks MOO is going to be by burning all the books.
Kristin: Right, and this is what we were talking about earlier which gets us to the next scene at Dru's, This Used To Be Dru's Playground, that's the full title of theplayground, not Dru's playground, it's the title of the playground is: This Used To Be Dru's Playground.
Jenny: Right, one thing about being 243 years old is that maybe you've gained some greater perspective on the neverending cycles of human existence right and things that matter and don't matter and what Angel's able to bring to Buffy in this moment where she's feeling like what am I even doing with my life. He's able to say yeah, evil never goes away… but we fight because we have to, we don't fight to be done fighting, we fight because there are things worth fighting for which I think is really impactful and definitely what Buffy needs to hear in the moment.
Kristin: What Buffy needs to hear, and what we all need to hear, right? I mean it is, this show is timely I'm sure no matter when you watch it but it's very timely right now. And I think it's important, we can never rid all of the bad from the world which is what Joyce is suggesting MOO can do.
Jenny: Right, right. With an acronym like that you might clear a room pretty quick of people.
Kristin: But the idea that we always have to keep fighting, I mean, Angel quotes our song right in this episode.
Jenny: Right, he's a big fan of our podcast.
Kristin: He loves it, Angel loves Buffering the Vampire Slayer, he's like [singing as Angel] "Just keep fighting," by his fireplace. [Jenny laughs] He's got his fucking vamp headphones in.
Jenny: [laughs] Yes, yes he does.
Kristin: Right?
Jenny: Yes, also I feel like we're led to believe by the beginning of this scene that Buffy and Angel just ran into each other at the playground. And then they have this exchange… "didn't know I'd see you here." And then they have this little thing where Angel says "I've heard about this, people are talking, people are even talking to me." Which I really liked because it made me think about every time since I've been alive and something awful has happened, something you know, either local or global that has been a catastrophe of some kind. The way that people start talking to each other, that's so different from the way that we interact with each other when it's just a regular day. When there's something terrible that we can all look at and say, "oh god, that's just the worst, that's breaking my heart." When we're able to connect with other people in those instances I think, I mean obviously it's terrible when terrible things happen. But being able to- being in those situations and connecting with people on that level in the wake of tragedy is a very unique experience.
Kristin: Yeah, gosh that is so much more in depth and wonderfully put than mynote which was: people are talking, where were you Angel? [Jenny laughs] I was like, who the fuck is Angel talking to? What's he doing?
Jenny: In line for blood at the butcher.
Kristin: Right? I'm just not used-
Jenny: [as Angel] "Uhh, you uh pigs feet? Uh yeah, yeah, you? Uh, oh blood, blood, blood lots of blood? So anyway about these dead kids?"
Kristin: [as Angel] "You hear about those kids at this used to be Dru's playground?" [laughs] I love the idea, you know, it's like I wish we just got a whole show about Angel, it would just be great. I wish that would happen for us.
Jenny: Yeah, I wonder if that's in the cards.
Kristin: I wonder, I really wonder. Oh, the other thing that I wanna talk about in this scene before we go is-
Jenny: Oh dear, oh bother.
Kristin: Duck, dyke, dam.
Jenny: Duck, dyke, dam.
Kristin: Duck, dyke, dam. Buffy thinks there's a finger in a duck.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: And Angel says, "No, it's a dike," And Buffy's like-
Jenny: And Buffy's like "Whaaaaaa?"
Kristin: [car screech noise] She's like [as Buffy] "what did you say? Faith! No, what? Who said dyke, oh gosh." [both laugh]
Jenny: I wish you all could have seen the gestures and the head turns that Kristin just did while she impersonated Buffy, she even grabbed the brim of her baseball cap and sort of doffed it a little bit. It was great.
Kristin: I mean, really truthfully I just like that this was a callout to the fact that the word dyke is a thing and I think that that word is a bit controversial, right? Some people use it for themselves.
Jenny: Oh, you mean d-y-k-e?
Kristin: Yeah! That's why Buffy responds the way she does, the whole-
Jenny: Right, right, right. I thought you were saying the word d-i-k-e.
Kristin: Yeah, very controversial. Water conservation.
Jenny: Very controversial. We only say dam and-
Kristin: No, I just think that that's a word that I think you and I say pretty comfortably because we're within a community and we're used to hearing people affirmingly refer to themselves as dykes. We go to the dyke march, we see Dykes on Bikes lead the parade up.
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: You know? We like the word, it feels good to us but it's a word that's also rooted similarly to queer, you know, it had a derogatory meaning to it.
Jenny: Historically, yeah.
Kristin: Historically so that's I think why it jars Buffy but you know, we will never know how deeply that jar went, will we? [Jenny laughs] is all I'm saying.
Jenny: So then… Giles is trying to use a computer. [louder] Giles is trying to use a computer. Giles is trying to use a computer and he can't do it!
Kristin: Aww, because Jenny Calendar isn't there to help him.
Jenny: Because Jenny Calendar isn't there to help him and also computers are a stupid useless fad-
Kristin: Yes, I said it.
Jenny: As we all know. [laughs]
Kristin: And then Xander has what may be my favorite Xander joke to date.
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: Right? "Oh you're in the frisky watchers chat room Giles?" Great joke Xander, fucking A+, A+ man.
Jenny: Great, great, great. And then, Buffy pops in because she just was with Angel and he was like "their parents?" And she's like "their parents! That gives me an idea." And we realize nobody knows anything about these kids!
Kristin: And that's how we learn about this whole Hansel and Gretel thing. And I just think this is really fucking cool. I loved the looping in of a fairy tale that we all know as the throughline of this story. I just thought like, yeah! It's just nicely done.
Jenny: Yes, oh my gosh. That is like one of my favorite things, when a piece of media I already enjoy incorporates something else I know, it's like in my DNA story-wise and looks at it from another angle, so awesome. If you are into this kind of thing, let me just take a moment, just one moment, to recommend Neil Gaiman's Sandman series in which that is done so masterfully, so many times, with so many different stories throughout history, so well, he's so good at everything. I love him and it's a great comic. And if you've never read it and you like stories that look at other stories, wow! You might enjoy it, okay thank you for listening.
Kristin: [laughs] That was not an ad, but just a great genuine enthusiasm. I love Neil Gaiman, I couldn't read Sandman, I'm sorry I couldn't do it, neither could Chris Farren, callout!
Jenny: I accept that and I love you and I celebrate your interests.
Kristin: I just didn't understand what was going on, you need to get me right at the beginning and I'm an impatient person. It's not great, it's not great, you know what fucking Monica, just back to Monica. So 100% I have that brick laptop that Willow is using.
Jenny: Me too!
Kristin: The way she picks it up gave me memories. Like huagh! You know?
Jenny: Yeah, you have to like plant and lift with your legs.
Kristin: And you're like this is so convenient, uagh! You know? I think that most people who are kids of the 90s have fucked up shoulders from the backpacks that we would carry.
Jenny: Oh my god, and you had to wear it on one shoulder to be cool!
Kristin: Yes! To be cool. Also shout out to Shiela for calling it a cyber coven.
Jenny: Cyber coven, witch cyber coven.
Kristin: And she locks Willow in the room. This is when shit starts to get really-
Jenny: Oh yeah, and she's like I just have to let you go with love, blegh!
Kristin: Yeah, this is when shit starts to really get scary, right? Michael runs into the library, he's all beat up. This is when it really- it starts to get dark. In our twitter comments I think it was Cole actually, who tweeted at us something about the fact that this show- the fact that this episode is having parents turn against their children for being different when we've already kind of seen that difference aligned with queerness.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: Is super upsetting and that, you know, it is. Things like- they refer to Salem in this and the witch hunts and all this stuff. There is a throughline to all of these things. It's something different than you, it's something you don't understand and so you want it to go away. You don't wanna converse with it, you don't wanna engage with it and you don't wanna understand it you just want to snuff it out. And that's really scary and the real part of this episode I think that gives us all the ugghhhh. It's a little too close to real things that happen!
Jenny: Oh my god, right like they just wanna make Sunnydale great again.
Kristin: Oh god.
Jenny: Sorry.
Kristin: Wash your mouth out with soap.
Jenny: I gotta.
Kristin: We're gonna bleep right through that [Jenny laughs] the whole thing, it's just gonna be beeeeeeeep great again, nope not even that just all the way through. So adding fuel to the figurative and soon to be literal fire Willow's mom "I said get your coat, witch."
Jenny: [uncomfortable] Nyuuuuuh. The worst.
Kristin: Right? Then we go to the fucking Summers house and fucking Joyce with the chloroform.
Jenny: Okay, okay. So yes it's terrible but is it worth it because then the kids are on the stairs holding the little bottle of clearly, hugely labeled chloroform so that we can read it on the bannister.
Kristin: And is the bottle floating? Like what's the metaphidics of this scenario?
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah, what? How exactly is that real chloroform or is it powered entirely by belief?
Kristin: Metaphidical chloroform.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: Metaform.
Jenny: Metaform?
Kristin: Something that's really- I just had an interesting moment with this scene too because Buffy is about to pass out, or whatever you wanna call it. Also ding ding ding knockout! We wouldn't have counted this as a knockout for Giles but Cordelia straight up calls it a knockout so we're counting it.
Jenny: Yeah, so anytime Giles gets unconscious…
Kristin: Yeah, or at least if it's called a knockout and called out that he gets knocked out all the time.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: Which happens in this episode but yeah, Buffy has this moment as she's about to kind of like- she's fluttering her eyes, she's in this twilight state and it seems like she sees the kids because they're going in and out of focus as she passes out. And so I just wondered if it was supposed to point to the fact that she- you know what I mean? That maybe her unconsciousness… I don't know, I just-
Jenny: Right, it's unclear but it does seem to possibly be suggesting something.
Kristin: Right, and so then, where do we go Jenny?
Jenny: Cordelia slapping the shit out of Giles [laughs]
Kristin: Oh my god.
Jenny: Wake up! Wake up! Wake up!
Kristin: Coredelia! She's gonna do a lot of amazing things and so I'm just gonna cut this up at the chase.
Jenny: Ba-ding!
Kristin: That's not even a saying, cut to the chase.
Jenny: cut to the chase. whoops.
Kristin: That's what it is. I'll say it again better.
Jenny: Okay, okay.
Kristin: I just want to cut to the Chase, get it?
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: And give her her jingle, we have not heard the Cordelia jingle in a minute.
Jenny: In a minute!
NOTES: [Cordelia jingle plays] Cordelia, Ahh-ahh I love you, Cordelia Ahh-ahh You're perfect Cordelia, Ahh-ahh]
Kristin: Oh Cordelia.
Jenny: Great job.
Kristin: A great Cordelia line comes right in this moment. "One of these days Giles, you're gonna wake up in a coma."
Jenny: I mean, she might be right.
Kristin: He's like, "Wake up in a- God damnit just get in the car."
Jenny: I love how she's like "It took you so long to wake up, my hand hurts from slapping you."
Kristin: Joyce and Sheila… so do you have any sexual tension contenders Jenny?
Jenny: Ha! I really don't.
Kristin: Because mine is between- I think it's between three. So lets figure it out. Joyce and Sheila have a fucking moment. We go to City Hall, everybody's on fire and Joyce and Sheila in the burning City Hall actually-
Jenny: They're leaning down to apply a torch to some of the books piled at their daughters feet.
Kristin: Yes and one of our listeners Lewis Noble wrote to us to say 'I love that they try to burn the witches inside of City Hall.
Jenny: Yeah, what?
Kristin: Which is a great call. What are you doing MOO? Anyhow-
Jenny: Yeeeeahhh.
Kristin: Anyhow, Joyce and Sheila have this moment where they're like "So we should hang out after this."
Jenny: Get some lunch.
Kristin: I'm just saying, Pat's gone.
Jenny: Same touch.
Kristin: And Joyce and Sheila have a moment soooooo.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: So my contenders are Joyce and Sheila…
Jenny: Giles and Snyder.
Kristin: Giles and Snyder, or Giles and Joyce.
Jenny: That would have been my intuitive pick, you know? But it's also less tension and more just awkward fumbling.
Kristin: Fumbling, right. So then who you gonna give it to Jenny? Should we play the jingle while you think?
Jenny: Yes. [SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays] Sexual tension award!
Jenny: Alright, alright, alright. Now that I've had some time to reflect I am ready to award the trophy.
Kristin: Yes?
Jenny: To Joyce and Sheila!
Kristin: Joyce and Sheila! What made the choice for you?
Jenny: Sheila and Joyce. I just don't like the idea of Snyder getting a trophy.
Kristin: Awww, poor Snyder, maybe if he got a damn trophy he'd be a little nicer.
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah, maybe.
Kristin: Alright, Joyce and Sheila, taking it, they're taking it
Jenny: Congratulations ladies.
Kristin: Congratulations, Joyce has won a tension award with Pat and now Sheila. Joyce is doing a great job.
Jenny: Uh-huh, uh-huh, uh-huh! So you know who's not winning any sexual tension awards probably with anybody in the near future?
Kristin: Who!?
Jenny: Poor, sweet, gentle Amy who is now a rat!
Kristin: Do you think that poor, sweet, and gentle are the ways to describe Amy?
Jenny: Well now that she's a rat!
Kristin: I mean, okay here's the thing, Amy is a badass witch.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: She literally- I mean I don't know if she mean to turn herself- I don't think she meant to turn herself into a rat. Do you think she meant to turn herself into a rat?
Jenny: Oh, you think she meant to turn somebody else into a rat?
Kristin: I do, because the spell that she did was like take the thing that is unclean and I feel like she was trying to spell the people that were bad but-
Jenny: Before thee let the unclean thing crawl.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Make a person into a rat. But it's like even if she turned all of them into rats she'd still be tied to a stake on top of burning books.
Kristin: That's a great point, so maybe- I don't know.
Jenny: I think she did it on purpose.
Kristin: She did it on purpose, okay. Well you know what would really benefit us here? Is a conversation-
Jenny: [gasps]
Kristin: With fucking Elizabeth Anne Allen.
Jenny: Right? That would be helpful.
Kristin: Who fucking plays Amy.
Jenny: You just can't stop cussing every time we talk about Elizabeth Anne Allen.
Kristin: I'm just so excited, like, I've been so excited about getting to speak to many people but we just had such a wonderful conversation with Elizabeth and I love the character of Amy. I just think she has an incredible storyline in the show.
Jenny: Yes, yes, yes.
Kristin: And so we're gonna speak with her and this is spoiler free, this is just a conversation with Elizabeth through this episode. So perhaps we'll have her back later on if there's more with Amy. I don't know if there will be?
Jenny: Yes, who knows?
Kristin: But yeah let's go to this interview.
Jenny: Yes. [Chime]
Kristin: Thank you so much, we are so excited and our listeners are so excited to have you on the podcast.
Elizabeth: It's very exciting.
Kristin: We've seen Amy in three episodes so far and we know we're going to see you in more but we thought we would focus on the places that we've seen you already. And start kind of at the beginning if you don't mind telling us how you wound up on Buffy and what the audition process was like.
Elizabeth: Well, I originally auditioned for the role of Buffy and so I was brought in to meet Joss and I loved him, he was great. And he decided to test me at the network level, so I actually tested against Sarah for the role of Buffy.
Kristin: Oh my gosh, was it just the two of you? Like was it at that point when you-
Elizabeth: At that point it was just the two of us so it was exciting and obviously we know how it went [Kristin laughs] but yeah that's how I got the role originally.
Kristin: Wow, that's incredible. What was that like, when you go to a network level and you're testing against somebody. Were you reading with people that were already cast on the show or how does that work?
Elizabeth: Oh my goodness. No, generally you read with the casting director and there are thirty to forty people in the room staring at you while you-
Jenny: Oh god. [Kristin laughs]
Elizabeth: [sarcastic] Yeah so it's not stressful at all.
Kristin: No, no, yeah.
Jenny: No, no that sounds easy peasy.
Elizabeth: Not at all. Yeah.
Kristin: So very calm.
Elizabeth: Yeah, I was very calm
Kristin: So this happened, you did this audition for Buffy and then how did Amy come about? Were you called back in for Amy or was Amy already written into the first season and you knew right off the bat that you were going to be Amy?
Elizabeth: Actually I was called back in to audition for a new character and it was for a director who I'd worked for before and he didn't feel like I could be mean [all laugh] and so he wanted to see me be mean, so obviously I proved that I could be mean and I got the role.
Kristin: Yeah, you proved yourself to all of us who watch this show as well. [laughs]
Jenny: It is really awesome that in your very first episode you essentially get to play two very different people. In terms of preparation for that I mean obviously you had to prove that you could be mean to the director but did you approach the role in your preparation differently or did you do anything special to sort of like hone in on that duality?
Elizabeth: Well yes, you know my mother was played by a woman named Robin Riker and she was super awesome and the two of us sat there and we decided that we would study each others mannerisms and pick a few of each others mannerisms to incorporate into the character 'cause she was me and I was her. You know what I mean?
Kristin: Right.
Elizabeth: We're both the roles and so we picked a couple and we just went with those. Okay when I'm mom I'm doing this and you're doing that. When you're Amy I'm doing this and you're doing that. So that was kind of fun 'cause we got to collaborate on that.
Kristin: Oh that's so amazing.
Jenny: That's awesome.
Kristin: So did you both- you sort of sat together and thought of that on your own. You were like this is how we're gonna collaboratively prepare for these roles?
Elizabeth: Yes, well I, you know, wanted to sort of, I was watching her and she's like what are you doing? And I said well I kind of wanted to pick up on your mannerisms. [Kristin laughs] And she said well that's- I was thinking about that and so we just started collaborating on it and hopefully it translated, you know, you got that?
Jenny: Yeah, it's deeply effective.
Kristin: Yeah, very much so. So talk to us again in Witch about cheerleading. I'm curious to know, we went back to make sure 'cause it's been a minute since we watched Witch and we were like I'm pretty sure that there are some serious cheerleading moves happening. So were those pre-existing cheerleading knowledge for you or did you have to learn some cheerleading moves for this episode?
Elizabeth: I was a cheerleader back in the day.
Jenny: Yessss.
Elizabeth: I was, but there was no athleticism to the cheering back then, you know, it was just a lot of clapping and when I had to get up on a pyramid I thought holy cow, what have I gotten myself into?
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Yes.
Elizabeth: But no, we did a lot of training and we did some practice on set for the cheerleading.
Jenny: Oh right, 'cause you not only have to get up on top of the pyramid but you also had to kind of fall.
Elizabeth: Yes and I had to learn the cheers, I had to do some of the dances and some of the cheers.
Jenny: Yes, yes, yes.
Kristin: [laughs] So great, what you do for your craft you know?
Elizabeth: Yeah, right?
Kristin: [laughs] So when you were called back and Witch happened did they call you back in for a one off episode or you knew coming into Witch that Amy was gonna have a longer arc?
Elizabeth: Honestly I just assumed it was a one off, I just thought that was really of them to bring me back and good to see all of them again. And I didn't expect more than that.
Kristin: Well then we were happy to see you again in Bewitched, Bothered and Bewildered.
Elizabeth: So was I! [all laugh]
Kristin: This episode, I mean, gosh there's something so fun in every episode of this series I think that Bewitched, Bothered and Bewildered is so fun and there are a couple of questions we have specifically about it. One, your eyes turn completely black and I'm wondering if it was- we you wearing contacts, how did that happen?
Elizabeth: They fit you with contacts, they're not super comfortable.
Kristin: Right, they must be very large, 'cause it's almost your whole eye!
Elizabeth: They're huge, they're huge. And you know they have somebody who just deals with your contacts.
Kristin: Oh just like a contact specialist on set?
Elizabeth: Yeah!
Kristin: [Laughs] Incredible.
Elizabeth: Just somebody who puts in the contacts. Yes, they do, they cover all of your eye.
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: Wow. And so do you- is the world then shaded?
Elizabeth: That's a good- I don't even remember that. I don't remember them being shaded. I think it was a one way. Like I could see out but you couldn't see in.
Kristin: Right, yeah 'cause I remember- I once had a fake ID, don't tell anybody but-
Elizabeth: I won't.
Kristin: [laughs] But I really took it to the extreme and I had colored contacts. They obviously weren't huge and all black but you know, they were brown and my eyes were blue. And it wasn't like if the contact moved I could- you know what I mean.
Jenny: Right, right, right, it didn't affect-
Kristin: Yeah, I'm glad our conversation brought up my illegal activity as a young person [laughs]
Elizabeth: No one else had fake IDs, no.
Kristin: Right, right, really going into the 90s in many angles. So tell us, you might have more stories about this episode but one thing in particular that we thought was so fun was these scenes where all of the women are chasing down Xander with various weapons and all this stuff and so we're wondering if you have memories from that specific thing.
Elizabeth: I have to tell you my favorite scene is when he is walking down the hall to that song [singing] "got the love, got the love".
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Yeeeeees.
Elizabeth: Everything's in slow mo. The look on everybody's face, I thought that was hysterical, I just loved that scene. It just was perfect. I'm trying to think of some other ones. The scene in the library was a lot of fun too.
Kristin: Oh where you go full postal on-
Elizabeth: Oh yeah, you know? Yeah, let's turn Buffy into a rat.
Jenny: Yes, your very first rat transformation, into rat transformation.
Elizabeth: Right, obviously I have a rat thing.
Jenny: Yeah [laughs]
Kristin: Yeah, it's becoming- I feel like, I don't know if you feel honored that in the emojis now there's a rat, I mean there's you know there's a lot of representation for Amy.
Elizabeth: I appreciate that, I appreciate the rat. I have a newfound love for the rat actor Amy.
Jenny: But did we perhaps read somewhere that you are allergic to cheese in real life?
Elizabeth: In real life I am, isn't that terrible? [sighs] The irony right?
Kristin: It is terrible and it's also totally insane that two people, you know, hundreds of miles away from you would be able to glean a random fact like you are allergic to cheese, you know like what kind of world do we live in?
Elizabeth: I, I don't know.
Kristin: [laughs] Okay so let's talk about Gingerbread, that is the episode that we're talking about today.
Jenny: Yes, in Gingerbread there's this very memorable scene where Buffy, Willow and Amy are all tied up and they're about to be burned at the stake by their own parents. And once they start setting stuff on fire, what's the deal? Is that actual fire? Are we seeing any real fire or is that all fire that was added in post?
Elizabeth: Yeah, there's some actual fire, some of it's in post but there was actual fire.
Kristin: Tell us about that scene.
Elizabeth: It was- you know they had fun with it. It was actually filmed on my birthday.
Jenny: Oh my gosh.
Elizabeth: So when they lit us on fire they actually sang me happy birthday. [Jenny and Kristin laugh] Yeah they thought that was funny. This was on set, yes this was how we acted on set.
Kristin: Wow, that's incredible. I will never watch that scene the same way again, I will always hear-
Jenny: And not hear happy birthday yeah.
Kristin: Yeah [laughs] So tell us- let's go back to the rat for a second. First of all, what are your feelings on rats in general? Do you like- are you a fan of rats? Did this change your feeling about rats at all?
Elizabeth: I have to tell you, I wasn't a fan prior to but I met myself. [Kristin laughs] I got to meet rat Amy so she wasn't bad, she was very sweet. I felt like it was a good representative and I'm okay with it.
Kristin: That's amazing. She was studying your behaviors like you had studied.
Jenny: Robin Riker's.
Kristin: Robin Riker's behavior.
Elizabeth: All together. It was a big collaboration.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: [laughs] That's amazing, was there-
Elizabeth: And there was a rat wrangler who came in with her rat and yes, we met.
Kristin: Wow, my gosh. I feel like your role had the most niche- you're like there was a contact handler, there was a fire handler, a rat handler. There's a million different special people on set for your arc in this show. Was there just one rat Amy? There was just one rat that did all the scenes?
Elizabeth: I can't speak to that, I don't- I only met the one rat so I'm assuming it was the same rat but you know….
Kristin: Right, in future-
Elizabeth: I don't know the life- I think the lifespan of a rat-
Kristin: Oh no, RIP rat Amy.
Elizabeth: I don't know that one rat would have made it that long.
Kristin: Right, right. But in that episode, in Gingerbread the rat that we're seeing is just one rat. They don't have-
Elizabeth: It's one rat, yes.
Kristin: One rat, amazing.
Jenny: No like extremely protective rat labor laws that they've gotta switch out every two hours or something.
Elizabeth: No, I don't think the rat was on set very long.
Kristin: So you've told us already so many incredible stories but sometimes there's a story we don't pull out in our questions and even in these first three episodes for this arc we're wondering if you have any fun stories of things that happened during the filming or, you know, off set or anything like that that's related to the series for your time as Amy.
Elizabeth: Well, I think coming back my character wasn't intended to be goth but I was surprised to get the call to come back and I had just finished filming another project that required me to cut my hair off and dye it dark and so when they called me my agent had to say oh by the way, uhhh, she looks a little different. So they tailored the role to that look.
Jenny: Oh wow.
Kristin: Woooow.
Elizabeth: All of that was written in after my picture was sent in and here's what she looks like currently so they made her goth and they created the whole goth line afterwards.
Kristin: Oh my gosh, I mean at least it's very believable. I feel like when I was in high school I had like a year of being goth and a year of getting my stuff from the salvation army and, you know, it's believable to have that kind of a shift in a character.
Elizabeth: Right, yes. And it very much felt that way for Amy you know just as she was exploring herself and kind of growing and it made perfect sense to me.
Kristin: Right, right, of course.
Jenny: Yeah, absolutely. What's your experience been like with what we know to be a still very powerful fandom around this series? Do you go to cons or have you in the past or you know Comicons, Whedoncon?
Elizabeth: I haven't gone to any of the cons, I went to a couple fanbase things but I haven't done that in years but it's interesting, it's still one of the- I still get recognized as Amy and I'll go out and I'll be with my children and somebody will say, "Amy?!" My kids don't really understand it. Like, "She is not Amy."
Jenny: She is clearly mom.
Kristin: Right.
Elizabeth: [As her children] "Come on!" But it's amazing to me there's still quite a fanbase out there and now my son is in middle school and his friends are watching Buffy.
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: Oh man.
Kristin: So have your children seen you on Buffy or have they seen the series at all?
Elizabeth: My son has- my daughter refuses to. She's nine and she just- it's too scary and I showed her one picture as a witch and she was out.
Kristin: Right. [laughs]
Jenny: Oh no!
Elizabeth: I want no part of that, she's like that's just weird. But my son is interested and he watched- I showed him Witch just to kind of get his feet wet and see what he thought. He just thought it was strange, he said it's you but not you. [All laugh].
Jenny: Right, nailed it.
Elizabeth: Yes, that's acting.
Kristin: Right, right. I love that your daughter has a self awareness of her ability to- I feel like that was the opposite of me as a child. I was like this seems like it could make me not sleep for weeks so let me consume it immediately.
Jenny: I should definitely watch it.
Kristin: [laughs] yeah.
Elizabeth: Yeah, I think my son is more that way, he said he's just in. He was like yes, bring it. He just watched Jaws, you know, he loves that stuff.
Jenny: Yeaaaaah.
Kristin: Right, right, right. So tell us what are you up to these days? I don't know if you have places that you want people to find you, if you're like you know what go follow the rat. I'm doing my thing [laughs].
Elizabeth: I actually paused after my daughter was born, well before my daughter was born and just took a break and just to be mom. That's what I've been doing. Maybe someday I'll get back there. I just wanted to be home with my kids.
Kristin: Yes, hell yeah. Of course. I mean I feel like that's such an important conversation to have. I don't know, there's such a 'well so what are you doing now?' and it's like well, I'm doing this and I'm doing that and I just feel like taking time for ourselves and our families, all that good stuff, is so valuable and important.
Elizabeth: It's so hard to balance. I think particularly in this industry it was just really hard to balance. I went to work after my son was born and I would have night shoots and it just was really hard to balance it all and I just decided I was either gonna have to get a full time nanny or not and I just chose not to.
Kristin: I wonder if there's a connection too for you, we watch the show for many reasons but one of the biggest reasons and especially in the current climate in our country and in our world. We watch it because there's these incredibly strong female characters who do follow their guts and they fight and they work hard and support each other and I wonder what your thoughts are on what Buffy is doing- has done and continues to do for generations of young women and women of all ages.
Elizabeth: Well I think it's really important. I think, you know, to watch these young women be so strong and so brave, it was a conversation that was just beginning when Joss created the show and now I think it's so woven into our society and we're growing it, I think it's great.
Kristin: Yeah. So I wanna thank you again, we both wanna thank you for taking the time out to be here with us and to share this series of one incredible story after another.
Jenny: Yesss.
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah. With us, and is there anything that you wanna share- did we miss anything? Is there anything that you wanna let our listeners know or share with us in general?
Elizabeth: I'm so grateful for Joss and all the producers from Buffy to have carried me along and in this series and to have been a part of it. It was a lot of fun. I just really enjoyed myself and I'm grateful that there's still an audience.
Kristin: Yes, as are we. [laughs]
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Well, Elizabeth we hope perhaps in a couple of years to maybe have you back. I mean, no spoilers for our listeners but maybe you come back, maybe- I don't know. And if you do we hope to hear from you again 'cause I know there's- if you do come back there will be a lot more to talk about. Alright, well thank you again.
Elizabeth: Thank You. [Chime]
Jenny: Wow, thank you again to Elizabeth Anne Allen for joining us.
Kristin: [sighs] Huge, huge thanks to Elizabeth Anne Allen. We came to talk to her in such a kismet way. I was looking on IMDB to see if there was contact information and I couldn't find any. And then a contact of ours that we were having another conversation totally unrelated to said, you know three days after I was looking up information for her, said you know I actually just had this conversation with this person and I ran into her husband and we were chatting and I told them about the podcast and I was like shut the front door this is meant to be and it was like totally, totally meant to be.
Jenny: Yeah, it was very serendipitous.
Kristin: Can you even handle- can you ever watch this scene again without singing Happy Birthday to Elizabeth Anne Allen? It's one of my favorite stories if not my favorite story we've heard so far from a behind the scenes Buffy thing. So, so great.
Jenny: So we've just got a handful of things left to talk about in this episode.
Kristin: Yeah, namely Buffy's super convincing "you in the back will be fish!" [Jenny laughs] "We're gonna turn you all like-"
Jenny: Yeah, maybe, maybe poker's not her game. Giles rips a bobby pin out of Cordelia's hair and picks a lock.
Kristin: Yes, and also don't forget that-
Jenny: Talk about randy for Giles.
Kristin: Cordelia is a bustling about with the inside of toads in the car while they're driving over, so mad but always involved.
Jenny: Yes, also ready with the fire hose, she breaks that glass and is spraying everyone's torches and then just kind of like spraying the people to be like, "Fuck you guys!"
Kristin: I'll tell you what, it was Cordelia and City Hall [together] with the fire hose!
Jenny: Yes, exactly.
Kristin: Xander and Oz, teamwork getting through the vent.
Jenny: Beautiful, yeah.
Kristin: Popping up in that vent, you know?
Jenny: Yep, yep, yep. Then we see the kids transform into their true form.
Kristin: Oh my god.
Jenny: Which is a very tall-
Kristin: I kind of like him.
Jenny: Yeah, there's kind of a bridge troll, fairytale, very fairytale as in terms of what kind of demons we tend to see on the show.
Kristin: Yeah, very fairytale. Absolutely, it reminds me of- the look of this demon even though he is an evil demon is like the kind of demon that you see that you think is gonna be bad but then is like jovial.
Jenny: Really has a heart of gold!
Kristin: Yes! Right. But this one doesn't.
Jenny: My favorite part is that the demon can't break character even though it has transformed into its true form. It is like [in a demon voice] "Protect us! Kill the bad girls!"
Kristin: [laughs] It's like- Cordelia says it best. "I think I liked the two little ones more than I liked the one big one." Meanwhile Giles is like, "der kugenflagens!" I just feel like Giles did not speak any actual German.
Jenny: Is he really speaking German? If you know please tell us.
Kristin: Let us know, it sounded like an impression of what you think German would sound like, der kugenflagens.
Jenny: And then-
Kristin: And then.
Jenny: Buffy is able to uproot the stake to which she is tied-
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: And does her best, not being able to look up at the demon to harpoon him, and is successful.
Kristin: But she doesn't know she's successful.
Jenny: But she can't tell, she's like "Did I get him?"
Kristin: "Did I- Did I get it?" And then to just add comedy to comedy-
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: Oz and Xander fall through the roof and Oz is like "We were gonna save you?"
Jenny: Yeah, "We're here to rescue you?"
Kristin: "We are men!"
Jenny: Great comic timing. Lot of really satisfying moments in this episode but then also a lot of really frustrating things.
Kristin: Yeah, and I think a lot of you said that you really liked this episode when we tweeted out about the fact that we were sharing it and I agree. I think it's a good episode.
Jenny: I'm glad it's here.
Kristin: A good monster of the week episode, very thought through. I think that some of the monster of the week episodes were sort of left like wait there's some loopholes here. This one just had a really cool storyline and you got the lightness of some jokes here and there but also there's some really dark shit in this episode.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: Willow's relationship with her mom! That's some real shit that we have not yet seen.
Jenny: So sad.
Kristin: That's the first time we see this and we're getting deeper layers of Willow's character and what she's going home to at the end of the day. So I think that's important and then really thinking obviously about mob mentality and protect-the-children narratives and how that can make people really believe that what they're doing is justifiable, is good, is right. So we really- you know, keep your eyes open 'cause lots of shit like that happens out there in the world where people use something that plays on emotions that we have to make us feel like we have to take action in a particular direction. I mean you're all listening to this podcast, I think you do those things anyway. We're all kind of in this together but it's tricky, it's slippery.
Jenny: It is. Just like a toad stone.
Kristin: [laughs] Just like a toad stone. So our little last scene here…
Jenny: Oh noooo, they're trying so hard but they can't make Amy not a rat anymore.
Kristin: Amy is one cute rat, I'll tell you what.
Jenny: Yeah, that's an adorable rat.
Kristin: That is a cute fucking-
Jenny: I wonder if that rat got a lot of work in 1999, it's a cute ass rat.
Kristin: But yes, Amy's a rat and as we find out because one of my questions as we were watching the episode for the first time was like what are they all gonna- like they've all gone through this as a town now, but Willow kind of calls it out at the end of the episode and is just like my mom's doing that thing that your mom did for all that time where she doesn't remember anything.
Jenny: Yeah, she just has a selective memory.
Kristin: Yeah, she's chosen to block it out.
Jenny: That's the real disease of Sunnydale.
Kristin: Isn't it, yes! Isn't it.
Jenny: So…
Kristin: So!
Jenny: What an episode!
Kristin: What an episode, there was mob mentality, there was fire, there was soo-
Jenny: Happy birthday singing.
Kristin: Happy birthday singing on set. Another huge thanks to Elizabeth Anne Allen for just being so wonderful. Just such a delight.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Well Jenny, shall we end this thing? Shall we get to the song?
Jenny: Good gravy. Let's get to the song.
Kristin: I'm pretty excited to get to the song.
Jenny: I thought you might be.
Kristin: So tell the people where they can find you.
Jenny: Gee whiz. My name is Jenny Owen Youngs. And when I'm not making this podcast with my wife Kristin, I'm making songs and playing shows and whatnot. And you can learn all about my musical exploits by visiting JennyOwenYoungs.com/Buffering. You can also give me a shout on Twitter @JennyOwenYoungs.
Kristin: Yes, and you can learn all about me and the work that I do with LGBTQ communities and their families over at kristinnoeline.com, that's k-r-i-s-t-i-n-n-o-e-l-i-n-e. That is also where you can find me on Twitter. And, heads up, if you wanna know specifically, if you wanna find that work the organizations that I run are called Everyone is Gay and My Kid is Gay. Everyoneisgay.com and mykidisgay.com, tons of research is over there for young people who are coming out. Who are falling in love with their best friends. Tons of resources for parents who have young people who have just come out to them so it is the holiday season and you may find that you have a child of your own who has come out to you. This is what happens over the holidays people. So those resources are there for you and and I'm very very happy that they are.
Jenny: And hey did you know that Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on Twitter, Instagram and Facebook @bufferingcast? Well if you didn't, now you do. And also you can drop us an email anytime at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com day or night.
Kristin: Day or night and remember that Twitter is gonna be a hot, hot beacon of sweet, sweet holiday gift goodness when we do our-
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: Yeah I said it, I said it!
Jenny: You did.
Kristin: We're going to be doing some really incredible giveaways, we talked about them at the top of the episode so you'll wanna follow us over there if you want some gifts that you don't even have to pay for!
Jenny: Woo!
Kristin: You can support our work in many ways, one of them is going over to Patreon. Just go to bufferingthevampireslayer.com and click on Patreon you will find all of the details about what you get over there by giving. Really fun stuff, the secret facebook group, the Buffy watches, the mailbag episodes and more. Plus you get to support us, it's like win-win. It's a win-win-win-win-win. You can also go on over to itunes and rate and review us. That helps people find our podcast and builds this community ever more. And last but certainly not least you can go on over to our store bufferingthevampireslayer.com click on shop and you will see all of the patriarchy smashing t-shirts, the randy for Giles pins, it's really just getting more fun over there by the minute. And it helps us sustain the work.
Jenny: Yesss! Thanks so much for listening and until next time…
Jenny & Kristin: Awoooooooooooooooo! [Jenny performs "Gingerbread" off the album "Songs from Season Three" by Buffering the Vampire Slayer] My mom lost her mind this week She tried out mob mentality She's a natural cuz she's very strong In this case oh god she was really wrong
All the Moo Moms say: Well, well, well you're goin to hell Cuz you're not like us and we can tell We'll take your magic, burn your books Cuz we don't like your witchy looks Since we've got a roaring blaze We may as well burn you at the stake MOO - moo, moo, moo - MOO Your mom likes psychology Won't listen, she just spouts theory But this week she's paying attention To groundings and parental fascism
All the Moo Moms say: Well, well, well you're goin to hell Cuz you're not like us and we can tell We'll take your magic, burn your books Cuz we don't like your witchy looks Since we've got a roaring blaze We may as well burn you at the stake MOO - moo, moo, moo - MOO Perhaps the biggest casualty in this whole kerfuffle is Amy She's a rat, she's a rat, she's a rat
All the Moo Moms say: Well, well, well you're goin to hell Cuz you're not like us and we can tell We'll take your magic, burn your books Cuz we don't like your witchy looks Since we've got a roaring blaze We may as well burn you at the stake MOO - moo, moo, moo - MOO