Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 1.10: Nightmares
Jenny: Hello friends, it's me Jenny, and also Kristin.
Kristin: Hello!
Jenny: We just wanted to mention a couple of things before we get started with the show today. Those things are- first of all, on December 18, as we mentioned previously, we will be doing our first live event ever.
Kristin: Yes. In celebration of the day after my birthday, in fact.
Jenny: In celebration of the day after Kristin's birthday, and in celebration of having completed the colossal task of having made Season 1 of Buffering the Vampire Slayer. We will be partying with you, if you're around, and you feel like it. We'll be at Union Hall, in Brooklyn New York on December 18. And we want to let you know that you can get tickets at unionhallny.com.
Kristin: And you should do that, because a third of the tickets have already sold. So I think they're gonna go, I think we're gonna sell out. So if you wanna get on that, get on that.
Jenny: Yeah, don't miss out.
Kristin: Don't miss out! We'll be playing though all the songs, we'll be doing some fun trivia, Scarecrow Fangs donated 3 pairs of custom fangs as part of our prizes that we'll have. So it's gonna be really, really fun. We hope you can join us. And, we wanna let you know, that the Buffering the Vampire Slayer Store is open for business. We are selling the Buffering the Vampire Slayer t-shirt with the logo by Kristin Thune, we also have enamel pins. There's a "Slayerette" pin, and a "Cordette" pin. You can choose, or you can get the pin pack, if you, like me, just want both of them. And you can go on over and check all of that out at bit.ly/shopbuffering. The pins were designed by our very own Kate Leth, who you know as our Buffy Fashion watch correspondent. So we're very thankful to have those pins, and tis the season. 'Tis the season for giving, as we all know, to others, but also to yourself! So get on in there.
Jenny: And now that you know everything, without further ado, let's get on with today's episode.
NOTES: [Theme Music]
Jenny: Hello, and welcome to another episode of Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast where we're watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, one at a time. I'm Jenny Owen-Youngs.
Kristin: And I'm Kristin Russo and this week we are talking about Season 1 Episode 10, Nightmares. Stay tuned at the end of this episode and every episode for an original song written by us recapping the Buffy episode we're discussing.
Jenny: Nightmares features a story by Joss Whedon, a teleplay by David Greenwalt, and a direction from Bruce Seth Green, who is not Seth Green, but rather Bruce Seth Green, a whole different guy. [Kristin laughs] It originally aired on May 12th, 1997.
Kristin: And in case you're wondering what this episode was about, if you're an avid watcher but just need a little prompt, this is the one where Buffy and her friends discover that their worst nightmares have become reality.
Jenny: Duh-duh-duuuuh!
Kristin: [laughs] But before we get into the episode, we wanted to give a couple of shoutouts. Jenny I know you have one.
Jenny: Yeah! Long-distance dedication. Karen is shouting out Carter to say thanks for introducing her to the best show and the best podcast. Thanks Karen and Carter!
Kristin: What a good boyfriend. You know, if only we all had boyfriends like that.
Jenny: If only!
Kristin: I do. I have a boyfriend like that.
Jenny: I… have no boyfriend. Who is your boyfriend?
Kristin: Oh, you! I was talking about you-
Jenny: We're allowed to have boy- Oh!
Kristin: My boyfriend, Jenny Owen-Youngs [Jenny laughs] introduced me to Buffy as well. And, speaking of being introduced to Buffy, our very good friend, Mey Rude, texted me just today, just this very day, saying that she could not believe that she was loving this show as much as she loved it, that she had spoken to a friend of hers and said, "Well you know what, I listen to the podcast and I'm watching it 'cause I like Jenny and Kristin." But all through season 1, she was like, "I don't- I just don't, I don't 100% get it." But she has gotten past us, she's in season 2, and she is falling, and she is falling hard."
Jenny: [sings] Yes!
Kristin: And it occurred to me to bring this up because that was my experience too. Did not expect to enjoy the show, and then fell hard. So if there are those of you out there that are watching with us, and you're like, "I mean it's good, you know what, I… Jenny and Kristin are definitely the best, the show is good… " I just want to, you know, forewarn you here, you're about to fall head over heels.
Jenny: Great things are on the horizon for you.
Kristin: They really really are. Also, last week we could not figure out who to give the sexual tension award to. We thought, and we thought, we hemmed and we hawed, and one of our listeners, Kaley Beth is this person's twitter name, really nailed it and said that, you know, "I think that the sexual tension award this week for The Puppet Show goes to Cordelia loving Cordelia. [Jenny laughs] And I- It made me so happy. Thank you, thank you Kaley Beth or perhaps Beth Kaley for that beautiful analysis. So retroactively, we agree with you. We are giving the sexual tension award to Cordelia on Cordelia.
NOTES: [Jenny plays the "Cordelia" jingle] Cordelia (ah-ahh) I love you, Cordelia (ah-ahh) You're perfect, Cordelia (ah-ahh)
Jenny: Congratulations, Cordelias.
Kristin: Gosh. Probably a fanfic genre that exists.
Jenny: Oh yeah, it's out there…
Kristin: I'm sure. Cordelia on Cordelia, right?
Jenny: Mm-hmm.
Kristin: Great. Anyhow… moving right along.
Jenny: Now we can start talking about this episode, which you loved!
Kristin: I loved. The whole time- So, many of you know this already, but I haven't seen season 1. This is the first time I'm watching though season 1. I've seen all the other seasons and love them. And every time we talked about this episode, when we were like, "Oh, you know, what's next, or what's down the pipeline…" Jenny would sort of dismiss this like, "Oh Nightmares," like, kind of eyeroll. And so I watched this episode, thinking like, that we were gonna maybe see another, "The Pack." Not to get too upset about The Pack, but like, it was just silly. There was a lot of silly stuff in it.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: I finished this episode and was like, "Are you kidding me? This is, I think, next to "Angel," in season 1, this is my second favorite episode. Because I feel like it goes so deep.
Jenny: It does.
Kristin: This show, the reason that we're even talking about this, like, season 1, and how you really start to fall in seasons 2, 3, 4, you're getting deeper and deeper is because it's such a character-driven show. And the more we crack open these characters and learn what makes them tick, I think the more attached we all get. So that's why I love this episode, because it really uses this whole- The whole theme of this is us finding out what these characters' biggest fears are. And there's a moment down in the lair, the Master's lair- Is that what we call it, is there a word for it?
Jenny: Yeah, let's just call it the lair.
Kristin: In the lair, where, and I'm skipping ahead a little, we'll go back to pre-credits, but the Master says, "We are defined by the things we fear." I mean, he lays it right out for us. And so I, you know, general note from me, I love this and I'm gonna talk all throughout this episode on why I'm so attached to this episode. And how I feel about all of their fears! They were so beautifully done.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: But anyhow. The episode starts, and I- This is another reason why I love this episode. You've heard me talk before about my love for Wes Craven. Out of all the episodes, this is the closest one that I've seen to using a lot of those same vehicles for horror. I mean, it's called "Nightmares," you guys. [laughs] It's about your nightmares coming true, which is exactly the entire core plotline, give or take, for Nightmare on Elm Street. So I'll talk about that more in a bit 'cause I've been rambling. Jenny, tell me what you think?
Jenny: What do I think… Well, I mean, I agree with you across the board as far as, like, I really appreciate the development we get in this episode. It's not the most enjoyable to watch for me, it feels a little… clunky? A little, I don't know… fits and starts? It doesn't feel like the most cohesive episode to me. But I really appreciate what you are highlighting, that what we learn about the various characters and what their fears sort of serve to tell us about them.
Kristin: Yeah, I guess that makes sense. I'm loving it for its character development-
Jenny: And for its Wes Craven-ness too.
Kristin: And for its Wes Craven-ness. Right.
Jenny: Which is also great.
Kristin: Yeah! Because, you know, in Nightmare on Elm Street, if you're not familiar with the arc, Freddy Krueger is the villain who can get you only in your dreams. And so this episode differs a bit from that because they're awake and their dreams are happening, but, as I said to Jenny, if you're an avid fan like me you know that in Nightmare on Elm Street 5, I believe it's the 5th one, is that right? Yeah, in the 5th one the character Alice is pregnant and her baby, anytime her baby falls asleep and dreams, Freddy can get to her. So the whole thing is a waking nightmare, they don't have to be asleep for the first time in that series of films.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: So I love that and there's, you know, we'll get to some of the other Wes Craven-y bits, but in the very first opening scene, where Buffy is walking into the lair…
Jenny: Her shadow's being cast.
Kristin: Yes! And there's the dripping water sound.
Jenny: Candles everywhere.
Kristin: Yeah! Candles everywhere, and there's also, like, a piano note situation. Can you tell I'm not the musician between the two of us? [jokingly] "A piano note situation."
Jenny: Yeah, there's a little synth playing a melodic figure that's very Craven-esque.
Kristin: Right. It's not the [both singing] dun dun dun dun… but it's close. I don't know what you did, what did you do?
Jenny: I was trying to sing an approximation of what actually happens, and you were singing the Nightmare on Elm Street theme. They didn't work together.
Kristin: We gave you side by side. [both laugh] But yeah, and then before we even get to the credits we crack open Buffy's backstory here with her dad. We haven't heard mention of her dad.
Jenny: Yeah, we don't know anything about Hank Summers, and now we know that he is not around, still in LA, and she sees him sometimes on the weekends, but she doesn't feel particularly secure in their relationship.
Kristin: Right, right. And we've learned- Willow asks all the questions that- Willow plays us in this scene. [Jenny laughs] Like, she's asking Buffy all the questions we wanna know. "So how do you feel about your parents' divorce, Buffy? Do you talk to your dad?"
Jenny: "How did it happen?" "How frequently do you see your father?"
Kristin: [laughs] So thank you, Willow.
Jenny: I have a question. Why is Joyce still keeping the last name Summers, is it a matter of convenience?
Kristin: Oh, good question!
Jenny: I mean, I guess the '90s was a time where you would be maybe a little more likely to do just leave your name whatever is was-
Kristin: Ooh, and what is Joyce's maiden name?
Jenny: We should look into that.
Kristin: Yeah, that's a key piece of Buffy trivia, if it even exists, if we ever find out. And then of course we get Cordelia, beautiful Cordelia. In her first moment with us in this episode, Willow asks why she's so Evita-like. [laughs] Which was really, I mean it was set up pretty Evita-like. She's, you know, looking at herself in the mirror. Yeah, and then-
Jenny: Wendell got in her light!
Kristin: Wendell got in her light, and then-
Jenny: What an idiot!
Kristin: Yeah, what an idiot! And he gets his when he opens his textbook.
Jenny: And there's spiders everywhere, including his face!
Kristin: Yeah, the first thing that I said the first viewing of this was- if anyone offered me an acting job and this was part of the description, it would be a hard no. I don't know that there's an amount of money that you could give me to have me have a spider crawl across my face.
Jenny: Yeah I'm with you. That's a dealbreaker for sure.
Kristin: I'm the spider catcher of the family. And I do, I'm a catch and release- My philosophy is catch and release. But when I can do that- I've done it for pretty big spiders, I get 'em in the cup, and then I get something underneath the cup. I take them outside. I talk to them the whole time so that they don't panic too much. I tell them there's gonna be a cup, and as long as you behave, it's just gonna go around your body, and everything's gonna be fine. You're gonna be outside before you know it. So I have that element of bravery in me, but not enough to have any kind of spider walk on my arm. Maybe a daddy-long-leg.
Jenny: No!
Kristin: Maybe, I'm not as threatened by daddy-long-legs. [laughs] Anyhow…
Jenny: I think you should be.
Kristin: Really? You're- Jenny's very offended by-
Jenny: They're just- uh, you know what's offensive about a daddy-long-leg? Their bodies- the body to leg heft ratio is just so wrong.
Kristin: Like, cause the keg is so long and body is so small?
Jenny: The leg is so long and the body is so small proportionate to that, and then also… the body is so thick and the leg is so thin.
Kristin: Like dense you mean?
Jenny: Yeah…
Kristin: Or you mean actual width?
Jenny: No, I mean actual width.
Kristin: Actual width. Yeah-
Jenny: If you look at the thickness of the daddy-long-leg body and compare it to the thickness of a daddy-long-leg leg, I don't know why you're not horrified!
Kristin: [laughs] I don't know. I don't know, I think because when I was a kid they were always the spiders that everybody said were harmless. So I was like, "oh these ones can't get you."
Jenny: Well, they're harmless because their fangs can't penetrate our skin but they actually have, I think, one of the most poisonous of venoms.
Kristin: Right, but they can't get me-
Jenny: But what if they're working on something?!
Kristin: What if they've been sharpening their fangs this whole time?
Jenny: Yeah! That's what I'm saying.
Kristin: Um, I have a question for everyone, after the credits play we go back to the master's lair. This is where that line is about, "We are defined by the things we fear", and a question I have apart from the, you know, this good commentary on fear, is who do we think does the master's manicures? [Jenny laughs] I would like to know. He has a perfect manicure, every nail is shaped just so. They're not just jagged and grown out. They are definitely filed and buffed, the whole nine.
Jenny: Well do you think the kid is doing it?
Kristin: I don't know, I mean it's- I don't know. Do you think that was like a prerequisite. They were like, "He needs a voice box and also a nail file and then he can come and serve the master"?
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: The thing they with his voice-
Jenny: Is the worst.
Kristin: It is the worst because, you know, in the horror genre children are definitely already very well established as creepy as fuck.
Jenny: Yeah, that kid is plenty creepy.
Kristin: You don't need to change that kid's voice, give him a regular little kid voice, put him in a lair, guess what? Fucking creepy.
Jenny: Yes, I would argue that's much creepier than the voice that, kind of, is taking you out of your viewing experience.
Kristin: Yeah. So yeah, we stumble in to the land of nightmares now. We don't really learn exactly what's happening- actually you wanna know, as my first viewing, the first time that Buffy looks up and sees the kid, what's his name?
Jenny: Billy
Kristin: Billy. The first time she saw Billy I thought it was The Anointed cause they're like-
Jenny: Right, they could be brothers.
Kristin: They're the same age, they've kind of got the same hairstyle, I came to really appreciate and love Billy in a way that I'm sure I will never for The Anointed but yeah I was like, oh The Anointed is up doing some magic but no, it was Billy, it was- what is he, lucky number 19? Is that what his-
Jenny: Uh, lucky 19.
Kristin: Lucky 19.
Jenny: Before we hop up into the school, though, I just want to also mention something that is said in the Master's lair, when he's doing his little fear monologue, is that he also says, "If I can face my fear it cannot master me." And he says this while he's talking about how fear and pain are both essentially inside of your head, and if you can master your own mind then you can be a vampire and touch a cross and watch your hand smoke and not be stressed out about it. And this comes into play later, which is why I wanted to mention it.
Kristin: Yeah. Do you want to talk about when it comes into play later? Or do you want to wait and keep them all in suspense?
Jenny: [laughs] Well hopefully they've already watched the episode, so I'll just say that at the end of the episode when we see people start to actually face their fears, they become free of them. We see Xander punch the clown in the face. We see Buffy realise that although she would never want to be a vampire, in this particular instance having vampire strength and abilities is going to be an asset to her in facing that very scary large man. And we see Billy step forward and unmask his attacker.
Kristin: Yeah. Actually, in the Watcher's Guide one of the notes that I found interesting - 'cause I did make a note that Xander; Xander really is the one besides Billy that really very overtly faces his fear. He turns around, he comes back to the clown. Which I'm convinced - I looked and looked and looked - this clown that Xander is afraid of, I am convinced that Xander is doing that laugh. That - not Xander, but Nicholas Brendon. It sounds just like the voice that he did for Sid…
Jenny: Mmmmm!
Kristin: In the previous episode, but I couldn't find anything on who did that laugh. I swear it sounds like him. But anyhow, he knocks out the clown, and in the Watcher's Guide they sort of mark this as Xander's transition from nerd to hero; that this is a moment when his character takes this big step past just being, like," I don't know what to do, blaaahhh, and says, no, I've got this. I'm doing this for myself. I have to do this for myself." And he does.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: So, we did skip ahead but I found that very interesting. And that's really why I love this episode, because - and their fears! I mean, when Buffy has her nightmare about her dad saying she is not worthy of his love, essentially…
Jenny: And also the reason that her parents got divorced.
Kristin: Right, the reason they got divorced, that weekends with her are not important, that she is sullen - and she has a little nightmare crossover here because one of the things he says is that she's not as bright as he thought she would be. These are the things that we are made of, truly. These are the things that cause our - that create our personalities; the way that we act, the way we behave, are the things that we fear. Not to give all this credit to the Master, but I really believe this. I believe that a lot of the things that we're afraid of impact how we act in the world, and also impact how we see other people in the world. So I loved this. I loved that it wasn't all - I do love Cordelia's nightmare…
Jenny: Hah!
Kristin: And we're gonna talk about, and I love some of the more, if you want to call them superficial - maybe they're not even - but the more superficial nightmares I love. But I love that they dug deep for Buffy here, in a lot of ways, but in this particular aspect. And, you know, my parents are still married so I never went through having parents go through a divorce and dealing with all that as a kid, but, Jenny, you have, and I don't know if you're comfortable talking about it, but I'm curious as to, watching this, if you had any of these fears?
Jenny: Yeah, yeah. I never really related to this storyline that we see in a lot of shows and books where a kid fears that they're responsible in some way for their parents' divorce. I never really had a connection to that.
Kristin: You were small, right?
Jenny: Yeah, I was super small, so I was just, like, going with the flow, I think.
Kristin: Right, right. Maybe had less time to understand what they were as a unit.
Jenny: Yeah, exactly. Something that I do want to mention, though, while we're thinking about Buffy and her dad here, in this little interaction that they have in the nightmare version of Sunnydale, is that I think this is the first time we really see Sarah Michelle Gellar cry on the show. I think this is the first real heavy emotional moment that we see her have, and I just want to let you all know - spoiler alert! - you're going to get to see Sarah Michelle Gellar cry a whole bunch more. And she's [emphatically] so good at it.
Kristin: She's real good at it.
Jenny: She's a master crier.
Kristin: You know who's a master crier, who I just thought of when you were talking about being so good at crying as an actor? I can't think of his name, but the guy that was on Party Of Five and also Lost… he plays, is it Jack?
Jenny: Oh, Matthew Fox.
Kristin: Matthew Fox. He is one of the most brilliant criers, I think, that I've ever seen. Especially, I'm thinking of episodes of Lost, where he cries in a way that can make me cry just by seeing him cry.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: But I agree. Sarah Michelle Gellar is also quite a crier.
Jenny: You know what gets me? When I see male actors crying, where they're like, they don't necessarily have tears coming out of their eyes but their mouths open like they're in terrible physical pain that they can't - and they kind of hunch into themselves, like they just want to create a black hole at the center of themselves and disappear into it.
Kristin: Right, right. That's when we get our little mug out that says 'male tears' and we collect them…
Jenny: [laughs] And then we drink them…
Kristin: For future drinking!
Jenny: Under the light of the full moon.
Kristin: [dramatically] Mwa-ha-ha the patriarchy!
Jenny: Oh my god. Yes, the patriarchy. Just ducking its head in to say hello to all of you listeners.
Kristin: Yep. And that was an unexpected patriarchy too, because I had some other places. But what are you going to do? Sometimes it just sneaks up on you.
Jenny: Sometimes you choose the patriarchy and sometimes the patriarchy chooses you.
Kristin: Oh! So well said, Jennifer.
Jenny: Thank you.
Kristin: So, something that I want to talk about. There's so many nightmares, right? So many different aspects of Nightmares to talk about. And I love Giles's nightmare. I love that his nightmare is that he gets lost in the stacks and he can't read. And he's so - Anthony Stewart Head is a brilliant actor.
Jenny: So great.
Kristin: And he's brilliant in this episode because he is just so on edge theentire time and it's because he's lost his Jenny: His ability to contribute.
Kristin: Yes, his whole power. Giles' power is his ability to read words, to process that information and to use it to lift up the Scooby gang, and he it's so sad, because he doesn't even tell them until he has to- until he has to tell Buffy. He keeps it a secret. And it hinders him too, because the fact that he can't own up to this thing is happening, I think, delays their discovery of what's going on.
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: Because he's just so embarrassed and so out of sorts with looking at these words and saying, "they just don't make sense to me." It's heartbreaking, Giles!
Jenny: Yeah. Also, I just want to say that the night before we watched this episode I had a dream that felt very long - I don't know how long it actually went on for - but it felt like it went on for about three hours. And the plot of the dream was just that someone had hired me to write a song for their wedding. I was at their wedding, preparing to go perform the song that I had written for their wedding, and I couldn't find the paper on which I had written the lyrics and the chords, and I didn't have them memorised, and I had a million- I was surrounded by notebooks and I was also surrounded by people who wouldn't stop talking to me.
Kristin: [laughs]
Jenny: So I was alternating between frantically flipping through various pages of various notebooks and asking people to "please shut up," and this went on for what felt like a few hours. And then I woke up, and then we watched this episode, and it's like, Jesus!
Kristin: Oh my gosh, yeah. That was a combination of Willow and Giles' nightmare. You know, the performance anxiety coupled with not being able to get the information you needed.
Jenny: Yeah. I frequently have - that's my recurring nightmare. It has something to do with performance and also some kind of task that needs to be completed. A lot of the time I'll be trying to get dressed to go on stage, and every time I put a shirt on, the color of my pants changes.
Kristin: [laughs long and loud]
Jenny: So I just have to keep changing.
Kristin: That's amazing; I've never known that nightmare of yours.
Jenny: Yeah, it's very, very frustrating.
Kristin: [mirthfully] It's so specific! It's not like the shirt rips or something. They just don't match.
Jenny: No, the outfit in total has changed somehow.
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: It's very frustrating.
Kristin: I'm a person who's never really remembered many of my dreams. I often wake up and I know I've been dreaming but I can't remember what it was. But I had horrible nightmares as a kid. I had a recurring nightmare about this man who was - it was before the movie Powder came out, but he was covered in white powder.
Jenny: Ugghhhh.
Kristin: Yeah, and he never wore any clothes but he also didn't have any genitalia really. He was just - I mean, I was a kid, so…
Jenny: Like a Ken doll?
Kristin: Yeah, he was like a Ken doll. He was my understanding of what a body looked like. Cough cough - better education for our children - cough cough. And I would be in different places and I would know that he was there somewhere, and then I would see him and I would wake up and I would wake up screaming, terrified. It was really, really scary. But I think now as an adult when I have nightmares they're more of that vein. I don't have a lot of nightmares where I forgot to put any clothes on and I'm in front of an audience, or I can't get this or that done. It's much more like something bad is coming and I know it's coming and I can't get away from it. More horror, more monster-like.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah. That sounds refreshing.
Kristin: No! No, it's not!
Jenny: At least in that scenario it's, like, well, yeah, there's a terrible thing and I'm responding accordingly. It's not like… logic has no meaning here…
Kristin: Right, I guess that's true.
Jenny: Even though something should be right in front of me it's not and I can't make it so.
Kristin: And I will say I used to have nightmares when I waited tables. I would fall asleep and be, like, "I've never brought the ketchup to tablefourteen!" I'd wake up in a panic and have to kind of talk myself down: "You're in bed; you did bring the ketchup to table fourteen; everything's ok; the restaurant's closed now." Yeah, so that's the other nightmare that I can remember the most.
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: And before we leave Giles totally behind, I just want to give a shout out to Giles' first entrance. I love it so much, I want to watch it over and over and over again. He comes out of behind the stacks and he's just completely dazed and confused.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Just totally out of sorts, and I loved it, and I laughed both times.
Jenny: Yeah, great job.
Kristin: Fantastic job. So yeah. We have so many other characters with nightmares here. We talked about Wendell and his spiders. I just want to say - 'cause we learn that Wendell's the key to unlocking what's going on because he describes to them, to Buffy, Xander and Willow, that, "oh, I've had this dream forever." And we find out why he's had this dream.
Jenny: Ughhh!
Kristin: And the story's really intense. Like, he's really - my actual note is "Wendell is bent over these spiders"! [laughter from Jenny] He's so upset. I picture his brother tied up in a closet somewhere. You know what I mean?
Jenny: Oh yeah.
Kristin: He's so upset that these spiders have been killed. And I do understand it to a level, but…
Jenny: But remember how his collection included Black Widows?
Kristin: Yeah, gross.
Jenny: [in helpless disgust] Blah blah blah.
Kristin: Gross gross gross.
Jenny: Gross.
Kristin: And now he thinks the spiders are going to come back and get him. There's a little bit more going on with the character of Wendell.
Jenny: We hope Wendell gets the help he needs.
Kristin: I really do! Oh, so, Cordelia. One of my many notes on Cordelia is "Cordelia's -period- Fucking -period- Scarf -period-"
Jenny: Valid.
Kristin: Oh my god! I have a feeling that the one and only Kate Leth is going to touch upon Cordelia's scarf, so before we talk about Cordelia any more why don't we talk to Kate Leth?
Jenny: Yeah, let's hear it.
NOTES: [Buffy Fashion Update jingle] It's time for our friend Kate to give you the Buffy Fashion Update.
Kate Leth: Welcome to Buffy Fashion Watch. In the last couple of episodes I've gone off on these tangents, and they're really fun, but this ep has so many looks, there just isn't time. Ok, to get it out of the way, Buffy spends a lot of the show - not just this season but the entire show - perpetuating the myth that people wear bras to bed. I know it's a TV show; I mean, I get it. But people just don't do that. Ok? Anyway, she redeems herself once we get to school, because she wears these rings I'm totally in love with. They are giant pink plastic hearts that blink like they have little LED lights inside of them. They're amazing. I never noticed them before but I love them so much. And also later in this episodeshe wears my favourite color on her: baby blue. She looks so good. Even when she's getting her heart broken, she's beautiful. It's perfect. But, ok, let's stop wasting time and talk about what really matters in this episode, which is Cordelia. When she's talking to Buffy before history class which apparently Buffy has never attended, whatever, that's fine - she wears my favorite thing I've seen on her maybe this entire season, maybe in the show? I don't know. I don't want to go that far. She did not have crimped hair. Anyway. She has stretchy pink pants in a fabric I cannot identify but I respected. She has a light pink cardigan wrapped around her waist - a different shade of pink. You know, she doesn't want to wear too much of thesame thing. A top that's floral: it's sort of a dark, I think maybe blackish, with pink - and the highlights and lowlights in the roses on the top match both the cardigan and her pants. She has a sheer pink neckerchief. It's really good, very fifties. And a fuzzy black ponytail holder. Not only that, but she also has a clear plastic schoolbag; very nineties, very respectable. It is just so good. It's impeccable. Everything matches without being matchy-matchy? It's just so well done. It's like somebody drew it, you know? I love it. And it's great, because of course it plays in contrast to her nightmare, which is that she dresses like a dork! And it's perfect, 'cause when it starts her hair is crazy, and she's lost her fuzzy ponytail holder, and instead has these tiny plastic baby duck hair clips. I mean, can you even imagine her ever choosing to wear that? No. And then it evolves over time when she's being dragged by the nerds - who are of course identified by sweater vests and plaid pants - in this outfit that is absolutely Gilda Radner. It's this look that I feel like she wore all the time in the era of Saturday Night Live. And it's not Cordelia, but I kind of love it. It doesn't match her and I wouldn't want her to wear it in any other circumstance but I definitely don't think it's as terrible as Cordy thinks it is. It's this calf length hospital green skirt with a belted silk blouse that has a big neck tie. It's ridiculous, but I really love Gilda Radner so I think it's fine. Also in this episode Giles wears what I think must be one of his four hundred and fifty, maybe five hundred, Paisley scarves. He looked really great. Until next time, I'll see you at the mall.
NOTES: [Buffy Fashion Watch outro jingle] That was our friend Kate. She gave you the Buffy Fashion Update.
Kristin: Okay, so yes, Cordy, great job with the scarf. This is a really killeroutfit for her and I love her positioning in this moment too with Buffy: she comes out and she's, like, "Hey Buffy, did you remember that we had a test today?" And she's been to every class, she's got her textbook under her arm she's 100,000% prepared for her history test.
Jenny: Oh yeah.
Kristin: And of course Buffy is not.
Jenny: This is like another stressful thing for me to watch.
Kristin: I was gonna say this is like a common nightmare of being not prepared for your test, because it's the anxiety of being a student. It's very stressful to be a student in high school. My high school was very stressful.
Jenny: Oh yeah!
Kristin: There was a large amount of work and a large amount of things you had to remember and a pretty big amount of pressure because all that work is being scrutinized to determine the rest of your life.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: We need to kind of chill out on kids, y'know?
Jenny: Honestly.
Kristin: Like, come on!
Jenny: It's not helpful to your development.
Kristin: No! Let's let 'em like make some ceramics for god's sakes.
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: For god's sakes by the way, all of god's sakes.
Jenny: Is that your platform for your presidential campaign?
Kristin: Yes! Let 'em make ceramics.
Jenny: 2024 let 'em make ceramics.
Kristin: [laughs] I think I'll do quite well, thank you very much.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, I'm looking forward to that.
Kristin: But yeah, we've skipped all around but sequentially at least after this history test nightmare we get to the part in this that is like… I looked at Jenny and was like this is Wes Craven! This is like… you could lay over a scene from Nightmare on Elm Street to this scene with Laura.
Jenny: Oh yeah.
Kristin: Who says, "I'm gonna go downstairs for a smoke break." She actually doesn't say the word smoke; she mimes the cigarette so that nobody will hear her, that she's going down into the basement.
Jenny: And what a creepy basement. It's the first time we're seeing the school basement, right?
Kristin: Yes, it's the first time we're seeing the school basement, and it's not just a basement. It's a boiler room.
Jenny: Oh yeah.
Kristin: Because there are open, and I don't even… listen, I've never even seen a boiler room that has open flames. I just know from watching Freddy Krueger that boiler rooms can have open flames.
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: And so I assume that's what's going on here in this school basement but like she goes down there to smoke, it's super creepy, super Wes Craven-y, super Nightmare on Elm Street. And then I saw those flames and was like, come on!
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: It's a huge… I mean flames in the boiler room, that's… the boiler room is Freddy's centralized location.
Jenny: Mm-mhm.
Kristin: That is where he spends a good amount of his time. It's where he died. That's how the character Freddy Krueger gets killed before he haunts everybody in their nightmares.
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: So, sorry, I googled and looked 'cause I really wanted to find a Joss Whedon quote that was like, "And when we did Nightmares we of course pulled upon x, y and z." but when you google Joss Whedon and Wes Craven the majority of what you find has to do with Cabin in the Woods.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: So we got to read a lot of fun stuff about that but we didn't find anything directly connected to this. But I know Joss, one day I will get to ask you, your real person self.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: I will say, "Ok, can we just talk about Nightmares for one hot second?" And you will say, "Of course, Kristin, you're so smart and that had everything to do with Nightmare on Elm Street."
Jenny: Kristin is very ambitious.
Kristin: Yeah, Jenny is convinced that we won't have Joss Whedon on our show, and I am 100% convinced that we will have Joss Whedon on our show. Why wouldn't he want to be on our show, Jenny? It's such a good show.
Jenny: [laughing] Oook.
Kristin: We're paying such homage, such incredible homage to this brilliant work that he's created! The reason why I think he's going to come on the show is because not only will we have this podcast, but by the time we're rounding the bend of Season Four, Season Five, we're gonna have a volume of music that tells the story that he created…
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: In song! Which, I don't want to put words in anybody's mouth or feelings in their hearts or anything, but if I had created something that was very dear to me and someone had put that much love and effort into, kind of, breathing life into that work again through music, I would be super into it. So I think - I don't know - place your bets, everyone. Place your bets.
Jenny: Yes, place your bets.
Kristin: We should have a - you know when you gamble on the Superbowl and there's a grid with scores - you know, zero through nine and zero through nine, and the ending scores of each quarter is how you win. We should do that, but have people choose what season and episode they think we will have Joss Whedon on the show, or none at all.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: And we'll have - it's illegal to gamble, so we'll put imaginary money in a pot and see who wins.
Jenny: Uh-huh. [musically] Fake money! Just like a hedge fund!
Kristin: [laughs]
Jenny: So down into the boiler room we go. Or Laura goes, I should say. And it's important to note here - for me, anyway - that yet another "Smoking Kills" anti-smoking propaganda poster is hung up on the wall. In the boiler room, for some reason.
Kristin: Yeah, 'cause they know this is probably where students go to smoke.
Jenny: Right. Oh, excellent point.
Kristin: Wink, wink, nod, nod. Teachers always know what students are doing. But yeah, it's '97, which I feel like, the nineties are a big, big, big…
Jenny: Big anti-smoking time.
Kristin: Big anti-smoking time, and big anti-drug time. I mean, the early nineties was when we had all those, "This is your brain." with the egg, and then "This is your brain on drugs!" where the egg would hit the frying pan.
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: And then that horrific commercial where the girl is on the diving board and she - do you remember this commercial?
Jenny: Oh, and she dives into the empty - the pool was revealed to be empty.
Kristin: Yes! The pool that they revealed had no water in it. That was kind of effective. I mean, I did a little bit of drugs, but I did probably less drugs…
Jenny: [laughs] "I did a little bit of drugs!"
Kristin: Kristin Russo, whose presidential campaign just hit the ground before it got off! It didn't even get one step! But still, I do feel…
Jenny: "Let them make ceramics!" and "I did a bit of drugs!"
Kristin: [laughs heartily] I'm off to a good start. Hey, I'm off to a better fucking start than a lot of people.
Jenny: So we see the person - the thing - the entity - that comes to be known as The Ugly Man emerge from the shadows and attack Laura. And Ijust want to say: not a misnomer.
Kristin: No, he is ugly.
Jenny: It's a right on nomer.
Kristin: Ugly. And I love this villain; I love that he has this arm that is also a bat.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: I mean, it's not explicitly a baseball bat, but I feel like just based on the…
Jenny: The way that the story develops. It's what we're meant to understand. Ugghhhh.
Kristin: Yeah, exactly. Yeah, I love this villain, and he's very, like, slow and methodic in his approach. He's very, um - Michael Myers.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: He's a very Michael Myers villain, where you're like…
Jenny: Not in a hurry.
Kristin: Not in a hurry! 'Cause he's just gonna get you with his brute strength.
Jenny: Bleagh. So we cut to Laura, then, in the hospital, and Buffy and Giles are going to ask her questions. Laura, totally nonplussed at the concept of the school librarian and one of her fellow students, there to question her about what happened in the boiler room. What?
Kristin: Yeah, that's a bit bizarre. But to give Laura credit she has just been knocked around.
Jenny: She's been concussed. Bless her head.
Kristin: She has been concussed. And so we learn a little bit more about what's - or they learn, I should say, a little bit more about what's happened in the basement of the school. They're starting to piece it together.
Jenny: Then they talk to the doctor, who is also, I think, uncharacteristically for a doctor, forthcoming with information.
Kristin: Yeah, what's funny is he says, "Are you family?"
Jenny: And they're, like, "no."
Kristin: And he's like, "Great, here's her history!"
Jenny: "Here's some information!"
Kristin: "Here's her medical history! And here's the medical history of this child that…"
Jenny: "Who's in a coma. You're welcome."
Kristin: "Who's in a coma, that you didn't even ask about." But the doctor is emotionally distraught because this person is on the loose.
Jenny: Yeah. And he knows he needs to help move the narrative of the arc along.
Kristin: Yeah. You know, we never really get - I don't think, anyway - a good look inside of the medical profession in Sunnydale, but they have to have pretty interesting stories, you know, working in a hospital. We've already been to the hospital so many times.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah. We'll see, actually, down the line, some behind the scenes hospital stuff that we don't need to talk about right now because I don't want to scandalise anyone who's watching for the first time.
Kristin: No spoilers. We've had a couple of you say, actually, "hey don't worry about spoilers, we think most of us have already seen it." To those of you who think that, we've had other of you say, "thank you so much for not spoiling it, it is my first viewing." So we are going to stick to this; we are not going to spoil anything along our journey.
Jenny: To the best of our abilities.
Kristin: Yes, to the best of our abilities. We may slip a tiny bit here or there, but we're very committed to it. So, let's talk about - Xander has a whole bunch of nightmares. Xander's naked nightmare is very fitting for what we've seen of Xander's character so far, right?
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: That he wants to put out this, "I'm a strong dude," kind of a face, but that he is very insecure about that, so of course that's embodied in him being naked in front of everyone. So that's a heartbreaking moment.
Jenny: That being said, looking pretty good, Xander.
Kristin: Looking pretty good, Xander!
Jenny: Looking pretty good.
Kristin: Looking pretty good. He's very bulky. He's been lifting some weights.
Jenny: Yeah, he's bigger than he looks in his flowered shirts.
Kristin: Yeah, and striped sweaters.
Jenny: Stepping - just half a step back, right before, leading right into Xander's naked-in-the-classroom scene, we see three dudes in leather jackets, and one of them is wearing sunglasses that I think we are meant to understand make him very cool, but they are…
Kristin: Well, his character name in the credits is…
Jenny: Is- "Way Cool Guy"!
Kristin: "Way Cool Guy".
Jenny: That is the character name. And he's talking some smack about how he's going to fight somebody who wants to fight him, and even goes so far as to say, "This is about honor!" [Kristin laughs] I just wanted to touch on all of those things I just said, because it really tickled me.
Kristin: Yeah, no, it was a good scene. And then his mom comes in and is like, "Oh, sweetie!"
Jenny: "Ohhh!" Yeah, pretty great.
Kristin: Every tough guy's nightmare, right?
Jenny: So, then, stepping right back to where we were just a second ago, I think it's also important to note that the classroom in which Xander finds himself naked is the classroom taught by the lady teacher whom he was…
Kristin: Ogling.
Jenny: Yes. The day before, or whatever.
Kristin: Right, right. So this is one of Xander's nightmares.
Jenny: Compounded interest of shame.
Kristin: Yeah! Yeah, but Xander has - Wendell has spiders, and Willow has performance anxiety, but Xander has like fourteen nightmares, you know? He's naked. He makes this comment early on, when Willow's talking about fear of spiders, and he says, like, "It's not like they're - I'd be more afraid if there were Nazis crawling over my face." and it's like, woah!
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: Woah, man!
Jenny: What a specific…
Kristin: What a specific fear. I mean, a very valid fear; I'm certainly not going to take that away from you, but we were talking about creepy-crawlies and he goes right here. And then later, when we're in his - 'cause I feel like they give the characters a short nightmare and then an extended nightmare; the main characters - and in Xander's short nightmare he's naked, but in his extended nightmare it's sort of this, collection of things we see. I mean, we see swastikas spray painted on the walls of this wherever we are. Which, by the way, where are we?
Jenny: Just some nightmare hallway.
Kristin: 'Cause there's just plastic sheets hanging everywhere, which is also confusing.
Jenny: Yeah, I think they're just there to be spooky.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And for the clown to hack through.
Kristin: Right, right. So the other piece of this is this clown. Well, and there's this Hansel and Gretel element to his nightmare, where there's a trail of, not breadcrumbs, but chocolate bars, and that leads him to finding this horrific clown that's trying to then kill him with a knife.
Jenny: Bleaagghh.
Kristin: Terrifying, but everything that we see about this character - we don't know a lot about Xander up until this point. And that's why I love this, because we learn what's going on with Xander and his body image. He doesn't want to be naked; part of his dream is eating all of this chocolate. Like, what's happening there? What are we learning about him and his insecurities? We already knew that Xander had a fear of clowns; I think that was something that was already established in a previous episode.
Jenny: Oh, was it?
Kristin: I think so. I think I read that somewhere. He mentions it in another episode before this episode, that he's afraid of clowns. We'll look it up; we'll find out. But there's so much to this, to him, I think. And then, we've already talked about this, but then he faces the fear.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: So Xander has a really big episode this episode, I think. And then Buffy. We've talked about some of Buffy's fears, obviously, her dad and divorce and all of that. But then this fear of being a vampire, which is just so real.
Jenny: Yeah. [pause] Yeah - I'm sorry, I just had a moment of very heavy agreement. It is so real. And the way that it happens - the way that the Master appears in the graveyard and says, "I am free because you fear it."
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Ehhhhh. [freaked out noise]
Kristin: Which, of course, makes sense as the core of a Slayer's fear, right?
Jenny: Oh, yeah!
Kristin: Is that - oh god, I just got all choked up remembering where we go with Giles next. But that - that she knows that - because really that is it for her. If she is afraid she will not be able to succeed. Buffy has to be able to be strong and courageous, because if she's not, the literal world will literally end. And so, this is huge. It's really complex. This is also the first time that the Master and Buffy meet face to face.
Jenny: Right!
Kristin: That's a big deal, I think. It's the first time they're seeing each other.
Jenny: Do you think the Master will remember this, after the nightmare spell is broken?
Kristin: That's a confusing element of this episode.
Jenny: What will everybody remember? And what actually happened?
Kristin: Because he - because Billy doesn't remember, right? Once Billy wakes up, he doesn't remember. He has this great Wizard of Oz moment, verbatim.
Jenny: "You were there, and you were there…"
Kristin: "You were there, and you were there…" but he doesn't remember anything, but the rest of them do. They're very aware of why they're in the room. So they have a memory of it. And I also wondered, can everyone see Billy's…
Jenny: Astral projection.
Kristin: "Asteroid" projection, as Buffy calls it? Can everyone see that? Because they all do; all the Scoobies see him.
Jenny: Right. Or can only people who can help see him?
Kristin: Right! And I don't think we ever get these answers. And that's some of maybe why this episode is a little clunky for you.
Jenny: Right, not everything is explained, I guess.
Kristin: Yeah, we don't have all the - we can't fit all the pieces together for a cohesive story in terms of the mythology of this and how that works. So they meet face to face; I think we'll assume that they do remember this for now, because all of the rest of the gang remembers what's happened. But then, Giles.
Jenny: Oh yeah.
Kristin: 'Cause we wind up in the graveyard. Which, I love that moment, 'cause that's such a dream thing, where you go through a bush and you're in a totally different time of day and you're like, "I don't think this makes sense, but I guess it makes sense 'cause it's real." So they're in the graveyard and there's an open grave which is another fear, which I-- one of the many things I read was that Sarah Michelle Gellar had a fear, a preexisting fear of being buried alive.
Jenny: Really? Oooh!
Kristin: So a lot of the scenes filmed in the graveyard and with all the mausoleums and all that was actually quite overwhelming to her in parts.
Jenny: Oh wow.
Kristin: Because she had this fear. But yeah so one of Buffy's fears is being buried alive. Little quick shout out to the date discrepancy here.
Jenny: Oh yes, yet another-- after we saw conflicting birth dates on her school record in "I Robot, You Jane."
Kristin: Right, where we had-Jenny: A 1979 birthday and then a 1980 birthday.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Here her tombstone says that she was born in 1981, a very good year.
Kristin: She just keeps getting younger and younger, that Buffy Summers.
Jenny: I think it's because she lives in southern California, that just happens here.
Kristin: Yeah, all that vitamin D, but yeah so this is Buffy's fear but theny'know 'cause the Master throws her into the grave-Jenny: And buries her.
Kristin: And buries her alive. And then Giles gets to the-- we decided if it was a cemetery or a graveyard but now I can't remember. What is it?
Jenny: I believe it's a cemetery.
Kristin: A cemetery [both laugh] and he has this beautiful-- Giles has this beautiful moment because they're like "Whose fear is this?" And he says "It's mine, I failed. It was my duty to protect you," and then he goes on to kind of say if he had been more cautious, if he had trained her better…
Jenny: Mmmm, Giles!
Kristin: But he says, "You were so gifted and the evil was so great," and it is like [sighs] Holy shit, my heart just like fell out of my body with thismonologue for Giles because we know-Jenny: Yeah
Kristin: We know that Giles cares so deeply for Buffy and wants her to be safe but we haven't-- we've seen it embodied, like, we talked about that scene in Witch; when he puts his hand into the cauldron and conjures this magic for the first time, and you can see that it's because he's so terrified for her. So we've seen it before, for sure, but we've never really heard him give such a direct voice to how much he cares about her, and how scared he is that he might be the reason that she fails.
Jenny: Right, mm-hm
Kristin: Which is just-- Whoooo!
Jenny: It's a big deal, you just gave me seven waves of goosebumps.
Kristin: Feeling lots of-- I know, it's just very emotional. And we're all so very emotional these days.
Jenny: Yeah, it's an emotional time.
Kristin: We're primed for more feelings than usual.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: But something that I do wanna say about this episode too, that kind of tapped into some of the ways that I've been feeling lately, is the moment that Buffy has in-- we're in the hospital, sorry, I may have jumped ahead, do you have anything more to say before we get to that?
Jenny: No, you're good, you're good, you're good.
Kristin: The final hospital scene but we're in this final hospital scene and Buffy is a vampire and y'know "the ugly man"?, is that his title?
Jenny: Mm-hm
Kristin: The ugly man is coming down the hallway, the world is sheer chaos, there's giant bees flying around outside or whatever they are.
Jenny: Those… bees… are pretty funny
Kristin: [laughing] They are, they're not quite as scary as they may have been in real life.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: But she looks at-- Buffy goes into the hallway, looks at the ugly man and she says, "There are a lot of things scarier than you and I'm one of them."
Jenny: [singing] Whaaat's Uuuuuuppp!
Kristin: Yeah, and then she just like fucking launches at this guy and she has like-- it's like, I think she she has the strength of the slayer here and the strength of a vampire.
Jenny: Yeah, sweet combo.
Kristin: Very sweet combo. And I loved this moment! Contextually this moment was very important to me, "You know what I'm fucking scarier than you, I have more power than you, bye!"
Jenny: Yeah, a very Buffy thing to ultimately realize.
Kristin: Yeah, absolutely, absolutely. And you know, I think, of course there's a lot of scoobie-ness in all of the episodes but there's something extra special scoobie about the ending of this episode.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: They're like, you know…
Jenny: There's like some really jaunty guitar music happening. [mimicking] "Dah nah nah nah nah nah nah!"
Kristin: Yeah, and like-- and they're dealing with this thing that's veryhorrific. The reveal is that the little league coach has beaten one of his-Jenny: His little players, ugh!
Kristin: His little players into a coma, which is like-- the reality of that is horrific and terrifying and so scary, and they do deal with it in a real way, but in this last scene there's like a very "gotcha" moment.
Jenny: Yeah, "Glad he's behind bars where he belongs, can't believe that happened."
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And Xander's like, "Well you've obviously never played in a kiddie league because everybody's very violent and serious about the games."
Kristin: Yeah, but they catch him by the scruff of his coach coat y'know, they're like, "Gotcha this time Coach Ugly!" It's very silly so I thought that was funny.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: But also kind of called back to why you had a little bit of an issue with this, 'cause they deal with the levity-- or they deal with the gravity of it but then they also package it in some moments in this very light way.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah. Something I wanted to mention back when Buffy met Billy; she like follows him after seeing him hanging around the school. She follows him into a gymnasium and we get a nice side view of his extreme 90s mushroom shaped haircut…
Kristin: [laughing]
Jenny: Which I really appreciate. And then the ugly man ultimately shows up while she's talking to him and they run, and they run outside of the gym and the gym has double doors with like sort of U-shaped handles and Buffy after saying, "I can't fight him he's too strong!" Slides a field hockey stick to bar the door.
Kristin: Right, yeah.
Jenny: Like, "He's too strong for me to fight but this field hockey stick willhold him for long enough for us to get away," which-Kristin: [laughing] Yeah, doesn't really-Jenny: But maybe by dream logic…
Kristin: That's true, anything is possible in a dream.
Jenny: … Yeeeah.
Kristin: Yeah, I also loved the very last moment, the sort of little tie on this episode where Willow and Xander are left together.
Jenny: Oh dear.
Kristin: And Willow says, "So but Xander, like, I know you're attracted to Buffy but when she was a vampire you weren't still?" And he's like "Yeah, of course I--"
Jenny: "Gross! Ugh!"
Kristin: Right! [laughs] I really-- I enjoyed that because-Jenny: Yeah, the lightbulb
Kristin: I don't know, I'm getting excited because we're really starting to see their friendships too. Like they're getting more real to me.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: These little moments that they have between, that moment between Willow and Xander it's just like, this really sweet moment because we know that Willow had feelings for Xander but they're-- I don't know. Ijust-Jenny: But their friendship is more important.
Kristin: Their friendship is more important, and they're just getting more nuanced. Their relationship. They're getting more nuanced. And I mean we're in episode 10! There's only two episodes left of the first season.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: Like, oh my god! What is gonna happen?
Jenny: Indeed, you don't know!
Kristin: I don't know.
Jenny: You really wonder.
Kristin: I really don't know what's going to happen. But I do know what happens in season two and their characters, and how they get even more fleshed out, and I'm just so excited 'cause I see it starting to happen now.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: I see it starting to really gel.
Jenny: Things are getting figured out and coming into focus.
Kristin: Mmmhmm, yeah.
Jenny: Very exciting time in Sunnydale.
Kristin: So yeah, I mean you can tell your friends, Kristin Russo ranks Nightmares as her second favorite episode so far in season one!
Jenny: Wow!
Kristin: I know, I think I just really like to see-- I like any episode like this where you really get to see the insides of a character.
Jenny: Mm-hm
Kristin: 'Cause I think these things that we're learning, they're gonna surface throughout the rest of the series.
Jenny: For sure.
Kristin: So yeah, I don't know. You can-- Jenny's like, ranking number eleven out of twelve on Jenny's list. [laughing]
Jenny: Noooooo, no it has so much to offer us as season one viewers. There are just some things that like, stick in my craw or whatever.
Kristin: Mm-hm
Jenny: But that's okay because nothing is perfect except for Angel the person and Angel the episode.
Kristin: Wow, you think Angel is perfect?
Jenny: Noooooo…
Kristin: That's a little bit of a…
Jenny: Obviously he's very flawed but… yeah but I feel like I'm glad this episode exists, I wish it was just a little smoother.
Kristin: Mm-hm
Jenny: But there's a lot of value here.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And I'm glad it's here, in the number ten of twelve slot.
Kristin: Wow, two more to go, what is gonna happen everybody??
Jenny: It's so exciting.
Kristin: Wooo! I can't wait to find out!
Jenny: I can't wait for you to find out and then to get to season two because-- that's when the slide is really gonna start to get crisco'd, if you know what I mean.
Kristin: [laughs]
Jenny: Okay, so I think that about does it for this episode. Thanks so much for listening to us again today on this day of days, talking about this episode of episodes. I'm Jenny Owen Youngs and when I'm not watching Buffy with Kristin I'm usually writing and recording music. You can learn more about me at Jennyowenyoungs.com/buffering where I have taken the liberty of curating a little playlist just for you all where you can hear some of my non-Buffy related music and you can also give me a shout on twitter @jennyowenyoungs.
Kristin: I'm Kristin Russo and you can find me over on twitter @kristinnoeline k-r-i-s-t-i-n-n-o-e-l-i-n-e. When I'm not here talking to mylovely wife about vampires, demons and all other sorts of dark matter-Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: I work to bring advice, resources, and laughter to LGBTQ young people and their families over at Everyoneisgay.com and Mykidisgay.com I urge you to share those resources with those in your life who may need them. They are very important and have become increasingly so in the last couple of weeks.
Jenny: Mm-hm Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on twitter @bufferingcast and on facebook at facebook.com/bufferingcast. You can shoot us an email if you like at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin: And if you like what we do you can support our work by going over to bufferingthevampireslayer.com and clicking on the donate button. It is an awesome way to support us but there are other ways to support us too! You can go on over to itunes and leave us a review, hopefully a positive one, those are the ones we are really after.
Jenny: Oh yes.
Kristin: Yes [laughs] And also now you can go over to our store which you can find on our website or you can just go to bit.ly/shopbuffering and hook yourself or your loved ones up with some Slayerette or Cordette pins or our Buffering the Vampire Slayer T-shirt. Those are all fun ways to support, and speaking of our Slayerette and Cordette pins, last week we told you that one of you who filled out our survey would win a pin pack and we have chosen that human, that human's name-- I've lost the human's name, just- it's fine.
Jenny: Oh dear, oh dear, oh dear.
Kristin: That human's name is Allison Blader, I believe. Allison Blader or something just like that.
Jenny: Yes! Allison Blader.
Kristin: Allison Blader, so Allison we will e-mail you and get your address and get you a pin pack for yourself or for someone you care deeply about or you can share it, 'cause there's two.
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah, and we want to thank all of you who took the survey, thank you so much for all of your delectable demographic information.
Kristin: [laughs]
Jenny: It is very helpful for us. We really appreciate all of you for participating. Thanks so much.
Kristin: Yes we do, thank you!
Jenny: And hey don't forget, if you are in the New York Metropolitan area, or you will be on December 18th, we will be doing our very first live show there on December 18th.
Kristin: Yeah, and for more information you can go on over to unionhall.ny.com. You can also get tickets over there and just a reminder we have sold a third of that room out already so if you wanna go, grab those tickets 'cause we do think that it's going to sell out! which is pretty exciting for us.
Jenny: Yeah, very exciting so don't sleep on it. Okay, until next time.
Jenny and Kristin: Awooooo! [Jenny Owen Youngs performing "Nightmares" off the album Songs from Season One by Buffering the Vampire Slayer] (nightmares, nightmares, nightmares) Billy's in a coma and it's fucking us up It's gonna get worse unless he wakes up The ugly man's got a strong backhand Textbook spiders are giving us chills Will someone tell Laura that smoking can kill? Count one-two, he's coming for you (in your) nightmares, nightmares A clown's chasing Xander with a really big knife (nightmares, nightmares) Willow's singing opera in a very bright spotlight Stuff of our dreams makes it harder to breathe How we ever gonna get, gonna get free From our nightmares, nightmares, nightmares (nightmares, nightmares, nightmares) Giles can't read he's lost in the stacks Cordelia's hair is under attack That cool guy's mom, Xander's clothes are gone A cemetery comes out of nowhere The Master got out of his underground lair Open grave, how will I save… Everybody from nightmares, nightmares? Giles faced his horror in the dark of the night (nightmares, nightmares) I've turned into the monster that I'm fated to fight Stuff of our dreams makes it harder to breathe How we ever gonna get, gonna get free From our nightmares, nightmares, nightmares (nightmares, nightmares, nightmares)