Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 0.01: Welcome to the Mailbag!
Jenny: Hello, and welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast where we're watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer one by one. I'm Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: And I'm Kristin Russo, and this week, we are not discussing an episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer.
Jenny: Plot twist.
Kristin: Plot twist. We're doing a special episode today, which is a mailbag episode, because we have so many wonderful notes from all of you, and, like, have learned so much. We have things to dig into from our email inbox.
Jenny: Oh, yes.
Kristin: To those of you who are like, "Aw, man, I wanna be on a mailbag episode!" Guess what? You, too, can be on a future mailbag episode if you have things you wanna tell us about the series or about our podcast. You can write to us at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Jenny: Here is some proof that our email inbox works.
Kristin: [laughing] Oh, man. Are we ready?
Jenny: We're ready.
Kristin: Okay, let me make sure I-
Jenny: Okay, okay, okay, alright, alright…
Kristin: Okay, okay, I'm ready. First mailbag episode ever! This is very exciting.
Jenny: Whew! This is structureless, what're we doing?
Kristin: It's actually- You say that and they think, "Oh, they must just be doing whatever," but we, like, sat for a full hour, and went-
Jenny: We put things in order…
Kristin: We put things in order, we read every- If you are not getting a response here, you're starred in our inbox. We're very organized right now, we'll see how long we can-
Jenny: Kristin's very organized.
Kristin: That's true, I'm very organized. But we'll see how long we can keep on top of things.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: So far, so good. [laughs] Okay, let's start! Let's start with Emily H.
Jenny: Let's do it!
Kristin: Alright, Emily H. writes in, "Hi, there. My name is Emily, and I'm a longtime Jenny fan and an even longer time Buffy fan. I love Kristin, too." Thank you, Emily. "I finally started listening to 'Buffering' today, and it's everything I never knew I needed. I love the banter and the number of ridiculous things you guys notice, but I think my favorite part are the episode recap songs."
Jenny: [whispers] Yes!
Kristin: "I was hoping that maybe you could do an electronic download on iTunes of all the songs at the end of every season. I would totally pay to be able to listen to these songs on a regular basis and share with fellow Buffy fans. Just a thought!" Well, what a great way to start.
Jenny: Emily H., you read our minds and our plots and our schemes.
Kristin: Mm-hmm. You did. Jenny has been making me keep it a secret, and, like, two days ago, I was like, "Jenny, why do we have to keep it a secret?" [laughs]
Jenny: I guess we don't. I feel like, in the world of music and releases and stuff, you get sort of trained. You get, like, programmed to keep everything a secret until you- you know, everything's on your terms, and now we make a big announcement, oh my god! Go get the record! But, there's noreason we can't just tell you: we are planning on doing actually exactly what you suggested. We're gonna be releasing the songs in albums at the end of every season.
Kristin: Yes. And that makes sense, I think, if you're a musician, but see, we're doing the series. People are hearing these songs, and they're like, "But will I ever get to purchase and listen to these songs?" So I think- I get where you were coming from, but I'm really excited to go public.
Jenny: Yes! And stop lying!
Kristin: Yes! And Emily, you are not alone in your ask, which is also what prompted us to tell you all. There were so many people on Twitter, there have been, who have said, "Cool idea, but are you ever gonna- can we- could you?" Yes, yes, yes, yes is the answer.
Jenny: Yeah. So our next email is from Nell. And Nell writes, "Hello, Jenny and Kristin. 'Buffering the Vampire Slayer' is basically the universe conspiring to give me all my favorite things. I'm a songwriter, a lesbian, and a huge Buffy fan. Thanks for doing the podcast! It's everything I wanted when I was first watching the show. The recap songs are perfect, and I laugh out loud. Nice job with periodic table of the elements, ha ha. Also, I think you should say 'patriarchy' however the fuck many times you want per show."
Kristin: And, Nell, that's why we put you in this episode.
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: [laughing] It's because of that last line.
Jenny: Beautiful, Nell, thank you.
Kristin: Thank you for your permission to say "patriarchy." Look at that. First episode, we've said it twice already.
Jenny: Yes! [laughter]
Kristin: Okay, then Jordan S. writes, "Hey guys! I just finished your most recent episode. I wanted to let you know that the coffee mug that Giles uses in Buffy the Vampire Slayer is a vintage jadite Fire King mug."
Jenny: Ooh la la.
Kristin: Ooh la la. I'm gonna stop here, because, how many people do you think told us about the mug?
Jenny: I feel like forty people probably tweeted at us?
Kristin: You're all amazing.
Jenny: Amazing.
Kristin: Amazing. People sent links. Somebody on Twitter- I think it was on Twitter, right?- let us know that there were two kinds of this mug?
Jenny: Ah, yes, the C-handle and the D-handle.
Kristin: Yes, and the D-handle is easier to come by, but Giles had the C-handle.
Jenny: Yes, yes, yes. Giles is more of, like, a hefty diner mug. You know that kind of handle?
Kristin: Yeah. I actually prefer the D-handle, which is the cheaper- That's very unlike me, I usually prefer things that are more expensive.
Jenny: You usually like the finer things in life.
Kristin: I do, but, in this case, I don't. And then the reason, Jordan, that we're reading yours is because you, in addition to letting us know about the mug, said, "If you guys considered opening a P.O. box for fans of the podcast, I would love being able to send you two a pair considering you're two of my favorite people who started a podcast on my favorite show, and I just wanted to let you know how rad the podcast has been so far." So this is awesome, and we've had a couple of people ask if we have a P.O. box. And we do! We do have a P.O. box. It'll be on our website, but should I tell them?
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: With my mouth, right now?
Jenny: Yes, tell them with your mouth. It'll be on our website under "Contact."
Kristin: Yeah, so don't feel like, you know, when somebody leaves you a message and they're giving you their phone number, and you have to write it down right now.
Jenny: GET A PEN!
Kristin: But our P.O. box address is 556 South Fairoaks Avenue, Suite 101, Number 490, and that's in Pasadena, California. So close to Sunnydale. And the zip is 91105. So if you want to send us any green mugs or-
Jenny: Or postcards.
Kristin: Or postcards, right. Or notes, physical notes. In future episodes of mailbag, we can totally do-
Jenny: Oh, physical mailbag! Snail mail bag!
Kristin: Yes, snail mail bag! Great, great, great!
Jenny: Yay!
Kristin: So, Jordan, thank you for that question. Jenny, I'll let you read some of what Sarah has written to us, but I put Sarah next, because Sarah also sent us green mug info, one of the forty. Sarah's one of the forty.
NOTES: [laughs]
Jenny: Oh, yes! Thank you, Sarah. And everyone. So, Sarah S. writes, "Big fan so far! I'm not sure if you're going to talk about this at all, but there's something I always wondered. In the first episode, Buffy knows she's the slayer and of her duty. However, it seems like Giles knows of her, but doesn't know for certain she's the slayer. Did Buffy have a watcher before Giles? How does she just know she's the slayer and of her destiny if she didn't have one before him? Joss Whedon himself has said that the TV series is not a continuation of the movie, but how could it not be if Buffy already knows of her destiny without having been groomed by a watcher/the Council?" Okay, so the deal with this seems to be that Joss wrote a script for the movie, and then, as is often the case when movies get made, the film that ultimately got made was different in a lot of ways from his original script and his original vision. "According to"- this is from Wikipedia. "According to the official Buffy Watcher's Guide, Whedon wrote the pilot to the TV series as a sequel to his original script, which is why the show makes references to events that did not occur in the film. In 1999, Dark Horse Comics released a graphic novel adaptation of Whedon's original script under the title The Origin. Whedon stated, 'The Origin comic, though I have issues with it, can pretty much be accepted as canonical." And Buffy's watcher in both The Origin and in the film, although they are different, is Merrick. I think they actually- I'm not sure if they actually refer to Merrick as a watcher in the film, but that's sort of like- he has the Giles role.
Kristin: Oh, yeah. Yeah, I think they call him a watcher?
Jenny: Cool, cool, cool, cool, cool.
Kristin: I'm pretty sure. I mean, I definitely was aware of the term "watcher," I think, before I watched the series, so I think I would've only gotten that from the movie.
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: And so I wonder, 'cause I'm not familiar with- you're not familiar with The Origin.
Jenny: No, I'm gonna be reading The Origin posthaste.
Kristin: Yeah! I would like to read it, too. Because in the movie, right, she is- that's when she finds out. She finds out- she's a teenager, in high school, and she's, like, getting changed in the locker room. I loved the movie.
Jenny: Really, Kristin, did you take extra note that-
Kristin: People didn't- there are a lot of people, who, in their comments to us and stuff are like, "I don't like the movie, ba ba ba," and I guess it's because it's not, like, canonical material. But see, I watched the movie in the '90s as a teen and I loved it. I watched it, like, many, many, many times over and over again. Luke Perry was in that!
Jenny: Oh, yes!
Kristin: Yeah. Ugh, I loved it.
Jenny: Hilary Swank.
Kristin: Yes! It was just… I mean, whatever. We'll get back to the mail bag.
Jenny: It was a fun romp.
Kristin: It was a fun romp! Especially before I knew anything about, you know, this universe or Joss Whedon. Like, I didn't know anything. I was just like, "This is the best!"
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: Also, Emily T. wrote to us, "At some point would love to hear your take on the unaired pilot. Not worth a whole episode, maybe, but if there's one with multiple short topics, you could maybe throw that in there." And that's something that we have on our to-do list, as well.
Jenny: Definitely.
Kristin: And so, I mean, Emily's idea here, of putting in a few things into an episode, we could read The Origin, we could watch the unaired pilot…
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: And we could have a special episode, a very special Buffering the Vampire Slayer. So thank you, Emily, for that, because we have a lot to learn. I wanna stop here for just a second and say that I'm fairly new to fandom, in general. Unlike Jenny, I was not a comic book reader as a kid or as a teen. I certainly have been, like, fans of things, like bands and what have you, but I feel like the universe of Buffy and similar sci-fi genre shows and comics have a very particular energy to them, and I haven't gotten to traverse in this world until now, until doing this podcast. I mean, obviously, you and I, Jenny, had fun watching the series together. But this has been so special so far.
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: Like, we're only six episodes in, and the emails that you all are sending, and the tweets, and how excited everybody is, and how willing everyone is to teach us even more, and to say like, "Hey, I really like this, but also, you missed this thing!" We're gonna get to a couple of things that we missed that are so great that we're gonna tell you all about. But I just, I love it so much. I told Jenny, the only thing I could compare it to is when she started playing with punk bands and punk singers and things like that. The audience, in those shows, had a very similar energy. They were so supportive, and just like, everybody was in it together, as a family.
Jenny: Yeah, there's a community understanding there.
Kristin: Yeah! And I'm finding that here. And I just wanna say that I'm very excited to be a part of this with all of you. It's really fun and really special.
Jenny: It is really, really special. And I'm super glad to be a part of it, too. Thanks so much for taking the time to write to us and tweet at us. It's just so awesome to have everybody coming at us with lots of helpful info.
Kristin: Yeah. Speaking of helpful info!
Jenny: Yes! [laughter]
Kristin: Nathan wrote to us, "There was one moment when I yelled at my car radio when you said David Boreanaz was spotted by a talent while mowing the lawn." And then, in all caps, Nathan says, "HE WAS WALKING HIS DOG, OMG! [laughter] I have been diagnosed with severe trivia brain, so I don't blame you for not recalling that detail off the top of your head, but the reason I mention it is that preparation is likely to prevent a lot of other nitpicky geeks from sending you cranky emails. I strongly recommend snagging copies of The Watcher's Guide, volume one and two. They have tons of great details about each episode and many of the cast members and writers." So this is- and Nathan, you were not the only person who told us that we flubbed on that detail.
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: That David Boreanaz was not mowing his lawn, he was walking his dog. So, to those of you who believed us, sorry.
Jenny: Yes. We never meant to deceive you.
Kristin: We didn't!
Jenny: And we're so excited to get our hands on The Watcher's Guide, volumes one and two. We'll definitely be referencing those moving forward to help us not make mistakes.
Kristin: Yeah, we've been reading up on the episodes before discussing them, but we've not been using- I'll say the word again- canonical texts.
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: I don't know if-
Jenny: Wikipedia is not canonical.
Kristin: Wikipedia is not. And so, we're gonna get better at looking in the right places for those details moving forward. Annette H. also let us know- Annette was another one of the people who said, "Excuse me, but David Boreanaz was walking his dog, not mowing his lawn." [laughter] And, Jenny, why don't you read the rest of Annette's email, because it's pretty fun.
Jenny: Annette is working on a senior thesis in a science lab, and took a break to write us, "Did you know that they make Buffy-themed tea? Now, you can drink Rupert Giles tea if you ever find that green mug." [laughter] Pretty amazing.
Kristin: It is, it is! And we did find the green mug. We don't have it in our possession quite yet, but I think it might be on its way to us eventually.
Jenny: Dear diary…
Kristin: Dear diary. And we've made you a bit.ly link so you, too, can find this Giles tea. Jenny named it- Jenny created the bit.ly, very smartly. It is bit.ly/brewpertgiles. So that's B-R-E-W-P-E-R-T-G-I-L-E-S. You can see this tea that Annette let us know about, it's very exciting. You see what I'm saying? That's the coolest.
Jenny: Yes! So amazing.
Kristin: Andrea M. writes to us and says, "Just wanted to say, I really enjoyed your first episode and I'm excited to listen every week. I'm emailing because one aspect I always appreciated about Buffy was how funny and quippy she is while also kicking ass. There are comedies about women and dramas about women, but it's not often a woman gets to be both witty and be an action star, at least I can't think of many." So, I think everyone knows why we read this aloud. Because we are women.
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: And we like women-
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Who are badasses-
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: And can also make some jokes.
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: And we've talked, I mean, obviously, you know, Andrea, you wrote that to us after Episode 1, so you've probably been delighted to hear us continue to talk about the complexity of the female characters on the show.
Jenny: Oh, yes.
Kristin: 'Cause, damn, are we into it.
Jenny: So many layers.
Kristin: So many layers! [laughter] Oh, wait! One other thing I just wanted to say about Andrea's email is that they signed it, "One of the Scoobies," [Jenny laughs] which I loved! One of the Scoobies!
Jenny: That's so great. Yes. It's a lovely sign-off. A lot of people who've been emailing us have been, like, hashtag Team Giles. Or hashtag Team whoever.
Kristin: There's been a lot of hashtags. There's a hashtag- we had our first hashtag Team Drusilla, who you don't know yet.
Jenny: Whoever Drusilla is…
Kristin: Whoever that is! But we were pretty excited about that. [laughter]
Jenny: 'Cause we love Drusilla. Okay, Tim P. writes, "You were pointing at the vampire prophecy and what would happen if there were no more humans. While it isn't in the Buffy universe, check out Daybreakers with Ethan Hawke. It is about a world where almost everyone is a vampire, and they are dealing with a dwindling blood supply and the effects it has on them." That is so interesting, I can't wait to watch that movie!
Kristin: Yeah, I can't either.
Jenny: Thanks so much, Tim P.!
Kristin: Yeah, you should all watch it, as well. We can all talk about it in the social- in the social realm. We'll put it on the top of our movie list.
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: Kevin writes, "Hey, Kristin and Jenny. I really dig your podcast. It's great hearing people who know/ care so much about Buffy the Vampire Slayer. It's especially wonderful that you are two queer folks. I got super into Buffy watching the reruns the summer after I came out to most people in my life. It turned out to be a lonely summer- lesbian in an Irish-Catholic town, who would've thought? Needless to say, I fell hard for Buffy and have been smitten ever since. I got a Buffy tattoo at 24. I guess what I'm trying to say is, I've been searching for someone to really nerd out about Buffy with for entirely too long, and it's simply fantastic that I bear witness to your nerding out about Buffy." This message is really special. And we don't talk a lot- obviously, we've pulled out a lot of gay themes, but I don't think that you and I, Jenny, talk too much about the fact that we are queer. And that part of what draws, I think, both of us and a lot of people- a lot of queer people to the show, is it's queerness, that there's a lot going on here under the surface. There's Buffy's identity that she has to keep a secret. There's a lot of- and we'll see more of this as the series goes on, but there's a lot of, like, coming out themes here. And so I think it's really special to be able to sit here with you, another queer person in this space, and talk about this show. I really- I think think it's very special, and I appreciate, Kevin, that you are having a good time listening to us do that.
Jenny: Yeah, I couldn't agree more, and I'm so excited, because- my brain just like started flipping fast-forward style through my mental rolodex of how many of those themes are gonna come, and, like, how in depth we're gonna get with it. I'm just really excited.
Kristin: Yeah, we have such a journey to go on, all of us.
Jenny: For sure.
Kristin: And I don't know if you all listening feel like this, but sometimes I just wanna sit and watch- Like, I just wanna forget everything else I'm doing in my life, and, like, watch the episodes and make the podcast so that we can, like, hurry up and get to the parts that I'm so excited to get to. But, you know, then I would just be sad, 'cause it would be all over. So, we'll be patient together. [Jenny laughs] You and I will be patient.
Jenny: Terry B. wrote in and let us know a truly delightful fact. [Kristin laughs] Terry writes, "Fun fact I think you guys will love considering howmuch you guys love Cordelia: Cordelia was named after a girl who was mean to Joss Whedon's wife in high school."
Both: YES!
Jenny: Love it!
Kristin: This is a great piece of trivia!
Jenny: So good!
Kristin: We need to- you and I need to host a Buffy trivia night at some point. Right?
Jenny: [Gasp] Yes!
Kristin: It'd be great. So, stayed tuned for more.
Jenny: That is a great idea.
Kristin: Yeah, thank you. Live, on-air ideas by Kristin. [laughter] But I love this. Ah! I love this. And I love you, Cordelia. Just saying. Okay, Earl K. writes in and says, "Very enjoyable to listen to, and look forward to songs about a certain 200+ year old vampire, and, my favorite, an eleven hundred year old vengeance demon."
Jenny: [Gasp] That's my favorite too! That's my favorite too.
Kristin: Earl goes on to say, "The Giles-mobile: As a car guy, I had to point out a correction. His car is French, not British. It's a 1963 Citroen" - I don't know how to say that word. Is that-
Jenny: It looks good.
Kristin: It looks- yeah. Anyway, "It's a 1963 Citroen," C-I-T-R-O-E-N, "a real piece of shit." [laughter] "Why is he driving this? C'mon, Giles."
Jenny: Seriously, why?
Kristin: [laughing] It's pretty funny! It's like, do you think they send the watchers over with their cars?
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: They just bring all of their belongings, they're not allowed to buy anything in their new home?
Jenny: [sighs] It's very difficult to say why exactly he is driving that car, but it is hilarious.
Kristin: Well, thank you, Earl.
Jenny: Okay, Rich A., god bless you, Rich A., because, wow. This is a gift. Rich writes, "I was surprised you didn't mention the notorious background extra in the final scene of Episode 5, 'Never Kill a Boy on the First Date.' The woman in the red jacket certainly made sure she would be in-frame, time and time again. By my count, she can be seen eight separate times while Buffy is having a serious talk with Owen and then with Giles. It's so distracting, I always have a difficult time paying attention to what the characters are saying. She kind of ruined the scene, but now it's one of those idiosyncratic moments of the series that I remember fondly."
Kristin: Oh man, Rich.
Jenny: Kristin and I watched this, and it is so great!
Kristin: It's so good. We kept a tally, and, actually, Rich, we tallied ten times-
Jenny: We counted ten times, hopefully we were right?
Kristin: But it may be, too, like, you might've been counting- 'cause there's a couple of cuts where you see her twice, and she's progressed forward, and it's like the same- so sequentially, it's kind of, maybe you counted that as one?
Jenny: Right, right, right, right, right.
Kristin: [laughing] But, oh my god!
Jenny: This is a lady in a bright red plaid blazer. Oh, lord.
Kristin: And she has, in most of the scenes- Or, scenes. It's one scene, like, five minutes. In most of the cuts, she has this, like, red, shiny purse over her shoulder. In some of them, she doesn't. But she's, like, everywhere. She's going up the stairs, she's going down the stairs, she's reading a bulletin board-
Jenny: It's so funny!
Kristin: She's coming from the other angle. If you have a moment and you did not know, like we did not know about this woman, go back. It's, like, one of the last scenes in the episode "Never Kill a Boy on the First Date." You must watch it, it is so enjoyable.
Jenny: So funny.
Kristin: So, thank you, and Rich, you may have given us the most joy with this mail. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah, what a gift.
Kristin: And, you know, something that I'd like to say too, is, Jenny and I, you know, this is our first time doing anything like this, and so, we- at first, we've been watching the episode once, we take notes, and then we come and we talk about it. But in recent episodes, we've been realizing that watching it twice has actually helped us a lot.
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: And what I said to Jenny before- when we watched this woman eight times, was, like, maybe had we watched this one twice, we would've noticed that as well. So, hopefully we'll be watching most of the episodes two times, not once, before doing our episodes, so we catch all of these little things. Plus, we'll have The Watcher's Guides.
Jenny: Honestly, I'm shocked that Kate Leth did not point out the woman in the plaid red blazer.
Kristin: Oh, yeah, it's Kate's fault!
Jenny: Yeah, Kate!
Kristin: Kate was too busy noticing the purple lame pants Easter egg. She can only bring us so many Easter eggs, you know?
Jenny: Right, right, right.
Kristin: Then our last mailbag email here is from Briana. And there's a couple of things in Briana's note. They say, "I have two questions. The firstquestion is: Have either of you listened to the several Buffy podcasts that predate yours? Most fizzle out long before Season 7 and I trust y'all won't break our hearts like that." I have not listened to any of the other Buffy podcasts. Have you, Jenny?
Jenny: I have also not. I thought, once we started making this podcast, that it would probably be a good idea not to listen to any-
Kristin: Yeah, I thought the same.
Jenny: Because I don't want to accidentally start accidentally incorporating things that they say, or, you know. I wanna do this without outside influences, I guess.
Kristin: Right, I mean, I think we have- well, via you, Jenny, we have outside influences from your favorite podcasts. You know, like, Jenny listens to "The West Wing Weekly" and, that being another television podcast, I think it helps your brain kind of say, like, oh, well they do some things like this, and some things like that. But I think listening to something so specifically close to what we're doing here might trip us up.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: But the real reason that we want to address this question is to say we will not fizzle out.
Jenny: [singsongy] Never!
Kristin: Can you tell? Can you not tell from our enthusiasm?
Jenny: Our fiery excitement.
Kristin: Oh man, we are not fizzling out. This is gonna be a full run of Buffy the Vampire Slayer.
Jenny: Or die trying!
Kristin: [laughing] Briana goes on to say, "Have you considered recording commentaries for select episodes? It would be fun if you skipped ahead and did a commentary for the episode 'Halloween.'"
Jenny: Well, Briana, we are so glad you brought this up.
Kristin: Yes, 'cause we've been thinking about doing a live thing, like a live internet stream, Facebook Live, if you will.
Jenny: I will.
Kristin: You will? Great.
Jenny: Yeah, I'm gonna.
Kristin: And I think this pushed us to say, okay, what are we doing, are we gonna do it, are we not gonna do it? And Briana, I'm here to tell you, we are going to do this thing. We are going to do a Facebook Live on the night before Halloween, so this is Sunday, October 30th, just a couple of days from right now. We're gonna go live on Facebook.
Jenny: Yes, we're gonna be doing a Facebook Live at facebook.com/jennyowenyoungs. I'll be hosting this one. This one's at my place!
Kristin: Yeah! [laughter] In this day and age, with the internet, it is impossible to schedule a live event that everyone can attend.
Jenny: Right, right. But! At least it will be archived after the fact. You can always go and watch it. And the way we'll do it- the way I've done Buffy watches in the past, is that we've been on headphones, y'all can watch on your own devices, and we'll say, like, "Three, two, one, hit play!" We all hit play simultaneously, and then you can watch, we'll be watching, and we'll be adding commentary as we go.
Kristin: And so, this is- I just wanna say too, this is Season 2 Episode 6, and so what I would like to do- Jenny and I are gonna have a business meeting live on this podcast- But what I would like to do is chat for five, ten minutes, and hang out and talk to everybody about their Halloween costumes and what have you. And we could take some questions, so that everyone can join for that part. And then after five, ten minutes of hanging, then we will do the "Three, two, one, hit play" situation, because, some of you, of course, will want to stay on your track of viewing, and might not want to jump ahead to Season 2.
Jenny: Yeah, just in case you wanna come just say hello to us.
Kristin: Yes, so you can come say hello at the beginning, and then you can jump ship before we launch into "Halloween," Season 2 Episode 6. It's gonna be really fun!
Jenny: Yes! Yes, we're so excited!
Kristin: Oh my gosh, Jenny, we can wear our custom fangs!
Jenny: Oh my god. [Kristin laughs] We can! I'm so excited!
Kristin: Great. This is October 30th. We're gonna be going live at 3:00PM Pacific time? That's right?
Jenny: Yeah, 6:00PM Eastern, some other hour in some other time zones.
Kristin: [laughing] 3:00PM Pacific, 6:00PM Eastern, don't forget. We will see you at facebook.com/jennyowenyoungs.
Jenny: Hurray!
Kristin: So, Briana, we've been talking about your email now for a half hour.
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: But it was very- There's a lot of information in here.
Jenny: Lot of great questions, lot of great answers…
Kristin: Yeah, because the thing that Briana ends their email with is letting us know- I'm just gonna read it. It's a PSA from Briana and I think we all need to be on top of this. Briana says, "I'm concerned that some of your listeners may be watching Buffy for the first time on Netflix. The thing is, Netflix has the remastered, HD version of Buffy that was produced by Fox, and it's a damn mess. The remaster nixes the original aspect ratio to adapt Buffy to widescreen TVs, which is not how it was filmed or how it was meant to be aired, and the remaster, at times, manages to both crop off important visual detail and include things obviously not meant to be in-frame, like crew members." [laughter] "Among other things, it also removes filters that are essential in showing what time of day a scene is taking place, another huge oversight, especially for a horror show. Anyone streaming Buffy should do themselves a favor and use Hulu, where they still have the original Standard Definition fullscreen Joss-approved version."
Jenny: Nice.
Kristin: This is-
Jenny: A revelation.
Kristin: A revelation and so important. Jenny and I are actually going to revert, not to even Hulu, but to the DVDs.
Jenny: Yeah, we've been watching on Netflix, but, I mean, this is a clear call.
Kristin: We didn't know!
Jenny: To change our ways.
Kristin: We didn't know to change our ways, and now we know, so if you're with us and you want a hundred percent, Joss-approved Buffy here, which I think is what we're all after, you might wanna take your viewing over to Hulu or the DVDs. And if you can't and you have to stay on Netflix, we'll still be here for you. I don't think we'll be too far off the mark. [laughs] But, Briana, thank you so much!
Jenny: Yes! Thanks so much for that great information.
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: What a mailbag episode.
Kristin: What a mailbag episode. And you know what I was just thinking, Jenny, is, like, every other episode has a song that recaps the episode. We don't have an episode to recap here, but I do think that you talked about giving the people a green mug song for a green mug.
Jenny: I did make that vow, and I'm not about to back down. Here's a green mug song.
NOTES: [Jenny performing the Green Mug Mailbag Song] Well, it's a green mug song From the bottom of our hearts We're very, very thankful To have this useful intel You sent to our email box You sent to our email box
Kristin: This has been so much fun. Thank you all again for writing us such lovely notes and for talking to us on social media too, for chatting with us on Twitter and all that good stuff, we will definitely be back doing more of these in the future.
Jenny: Yes, so fun. 'Til then, or 'til the next episode, my name's Jenny Owen Youngs, and when I'm not making mailbag episodes for Buffering the Vampire Slayer, you can find me making songs and singing 'em and recording 'em and I made you guys a special little playlist over at jennyowenyoungs.com/buffering, so you can check out some of my songs that aren't about Buffy if you so choose. You can also give me a shout on Twitter @jennyowenyoungs.
Kristin: And I'm Krisitin Russo, you can find my personal chatter and feminist rants- I hope I'm actually doing those things I keep telling you. Am I ranting feministly? - over on Twitter @kristinnoeline. That is K-R-I-S-T-I-N-N-O-E-L-I-N-E. When I'm not podcasting, I work to bring advice, resources, and laughter to LGBTQ young people and their families over at everyoneisgay.com and mykidisgay.com.
Jenny: Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on Twitter @bufferingcast, and we're also on Facebook at facebook.com/bufferingcast. You can also email us at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin: Dot dot dot dot dot. If you like what we do, you can now support us by heading on over to bufferingthevampireslayer.com and clicking on the "Donate" button.
Jenny: Thanks so much for listening. We care about you. Until next time:
Jenny and Kristin: AWWOOOOOO!
Kristin: Mailbag! [Jenny laughs]