Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 7.09: Never Leave Me
NOTES: [CHIME]
Kristin: Hey there, Scoobies. It's just Kristin and my voice is at a high pitch, because I'm really excited. It is March 9th, if you're listening to this when it's airing, wh-ich means that we are two days away from the biggest event that we've ever had. This Friday, March 11th, we will be celebrating the 25th anniversary of the premiere of Buffy the Vampire Slayer. There might be a couple of in-person tickets left for that event, but I know for sure that there are virtual tickets to attend. They are available to anyone, all you need is an internet connection. We are broadcasting through Moment House, and the live stream will start live with us inside of Sunnydale High School. Literally, we will be broadcasting from Torrance High School, where Buffy was filmed. It all begins at 7 PM Pacific time, 10 PM Eastern, and that live stream on Moment House will be available for Video on Demand for seven days following the event. So if you can't make it in real time, you can still grab a virtual ticket and watch it after the effect. It's also the only way you can access our exclusive Prom merchandise. We have some really cool t-shirts and pins and tank tops and hoodies. It's also the only way that you can access our exclusive Prom merchandise unless you are at the event physically. So you can get all of that and find out all of the information at momenthouse.com/bufferingthevampireslayer. That's moment house-M-O-M-E-N-T-H-O-U-S-E-dot com slash Buffering the Vampire Slayer. This Friday, March 11th, 7 PM Pacific, 10 PM Eastern. We will be joined by special guest Evan Ross Katz who is about to release a phenomenal book on the show, Buffy the Vampire Slayer. We'll be joined by Joanna Robinson, who's gonna have a lot to say from inside of Sunnydale High School. And our arch nemeses-es-is, Morgan and LaToya from Angel On Top. It's gonna be an epic evening. Jenny's gonna play some music. We're going to have the best freaking time. Also, I'm so excited that I forgot to tell you that Jenny isn't even here in the introduction. [laughs] She is, um, you know, preparing for the event and also a huge tour that she's going on with Hrishi Hirway. So I'm here-I'm up here by myself, but don't worry, we'll be united in an epic way very, very soon. Again, if you're in the Los Angeles area and you wanna try to scoop one of those last remaining tickets for Friday night, you can. All of that information can be found on our website. Alright. Normally when I do Sexual Tension Awards and Jenny isn't here, I, like, do an impression of her or whatever. But you know what, it's two days from Prom and I am feeling sexy myself. So I am going to tell you-and this is also-like, this really is about me, these winners. So these are the results from Sleeper, two weeks ago. In fourth place-well, it's nice, 'cause fourth place gets foursomes. It's Charlotte, the vampire at The Bronze, and foursomes, 1.7% of the vote. Coming in third, we have the very British pair of Robson and Giles. Did they kiss before Robson got killed? Who knows? We think so. 12.3% of the vote. Second place, a lot of tension here. I'm surprised they only clocked 21% of the vote. Sunnydale and the thing beneath it. And winning, because I know what's good and so do you, Anya and butts, 65% of the vote. If Jenny were here, she would say, I feel a little disappointed in the 4% of you who didn't bring that to a clean 69%. Emily Brackets McLongstreet has already created for us a GIF of Anya chomping through many, many, many peach emojis. And now that Anya and butts have won, we will get to see what she creates for the final bracket of Season 7, so. [laughs] Alright. Two more things for you. I hope-who knows? I don't know what I'm doing anymore. I'm just simply so excited. First of all, for the first time in history, this episode is airing without a song at the end. And that is because I told Jenny that she was allowed to wait until she got back from tour to conquer this song. It was very hard for her, so I would love for you to give her all the love that she deserves. She really wanted to make it happen, but I said, it's okay, Jenny. They'll be okay without a song. When you come back, you can make the song, and then we'll put it in the episode later. So there won't be a song, but don't worry, of course there will be a song for Never Leave Me. You're just gonna have to give Jenny Owen Youngs a few more weeks to make that happen for us. Last but not least, this made me cry earlier today [laughs] when I learned that so many of you all are planning meet-ups and tours and all sorts of things while you're out in Los Angeles to join us for Prom. So if that's you, if you're a person who is coming to join us on Friday or Saturday night, or both, please know that I have put up a landing page for these Scooby-led meet-ups. You can find it at bufferingthevampireslayer.com/promups. That's P-R-O-M-U-P-S. Get it? Like meet-ups but for prom, prom-ups? Cool. It'll take you to a landing page, it's basically a google folder that Scoobies have created. They're doing a tour of Sony studios. They're meeting up before the live taping. They're doing a tour of Torrance starting at the Marriott hotel. They're meeting up after the prom at a local gay bar, of course they are! There's a whole bunch of things. It's all listed for you. It truly-I mean, you'll hear-if you're gonna be at the event, you're gonna hear me say this a lot. But Jenny and I are so emotional and overwhelmed about how wonderful you all are and how excited we are together with you. So, alright. To many of you, I will see you this Friday, either in person or virtually. I cannot wait. Again, if you wanna join us virtually, those tickets are at momenthouse.com/bufferingthevampireslayer. Hell yes, happy 25th anniversary, Buffy the Vampire Slayer.
NOTES: [Buffering theme plays]
Jenny: Hello and welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast where we are watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, one by one, spoiler free, in tandem with those gals I'd never jam both my arms clear through a bunch of drywall, [Kristin laughs] to then grab and rip through said drywall-
Kristin: I would.
Jenny: [simultaneously] And then bite!
Kristin: I would.
Jenny: Not ever, not one time. Angel On Top. I'm Jenny Owen Youngs. [laughs]
Kristin: I would do it, but I would hug them on the other side of the wall.
Jenny: Aww! It is a nice hug.
Kristin: You know? It is. It's a nice little embrace before the biting happens.
Jenny: Mmhmm!
Kristin: I am Kristin Russo and this week, we are talking about Buffy Season 7, Episode 9, Never Leave Me. Stay tuned at the end of this podcast every other week for an original song, written by Jenny-sometimes with friends-
Jenny: Mmhmm!
Kristin: [simultaneously] Recapping the Buffy episode we are discussing.
Jenny: Never Leave Me was written by Drew Goddard, directed by David Solomon and originally aired on the face of a new world-
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: On November 26th, 2002.
Kristin: Oh, so it was the face of a new world for you, Jenny Owen Youngs, who had turned 21.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: But not us-I thought we-I thought you were rolling us into 2003. I was like, wow, did we do it? Or-
Jenny: Nope. [laughs]
Kristin: We didn't, we're still in 2002.
Jenny: That would have been quite a jump. [both laugh] For some reason, there was a one-year gap between Season 7, Episode 8, and Season 7, Episode 9. [both laugh]
Kristin: No. It's-we're in November-what year are we in? We're in November 2002.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: So it wouldn't be a one-year gap, it'd would be a two-month gap. Not even.
Jenny: But I said November-27-and you-[laughs]
Kristin: [simultaneously] Well, but I-before you started November, is when I thought-okay?
Jenny: Oh, you thought this was just gonna be a January episode.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: I see, I see, I see, okay.
Kristin: You guys thought that this was gonna be a-we were gonna make it to the end of the seventh season, but this is it. Jenny and I-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Just got into a fight and we're ending the podcast.
Jenny: [simultaneously] No, I mean, clearly we are professionals who have been honing our craft [Kristin laughs] for the last six years. And, uh…
Kristin: Hey, it's a noble art to both hone your craft and also remain the stupid dummies that you were at the beginning. You know? It's important.
Jenny: The proof is in…the podding!
Kristin: [laughs] This is the one, according to IMDB…[laughs] Jenny's making her labrador face, wanting a treat. You want a little bone? You want a little…
Jenny: [uncertain] Mmm!
Kristin: A little…
Jenny: No, I'm okay.
Kristin: What would be your dog treat? A little cup of coffee? You want a little cup of coffee?
Jenny: Yes, I do, thank you. [both laugh] Don't give your dogs coffee, people.
Kristin: My mom's dog drinks her coffee. Like, not-like, every time my mom leaves the room. It's because my mom drinks coffee-I know this is what the intro is supposed to contain. But like, my mom drinks coffee that is, like, 50% coffee and 50% the, like, creamer that you buy that, like, you could leave on the shelf for 412 years and it would still be good, the, like-
Jenny: It's like-it's basically liquid pumpkin pie that your dog-your mom's dog is eating.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Right. It's like, mocha-peppermint blast! And you're like, what even is this? So I think the dog is more into whatever that is than the actual coffee.
Jenny: Eugh!
Kristin: Anyway, don't worry, my mom knows that her dog isn't supposed to have coffee. According to IMDB, this is not the one about my mom's dog drinking coffee. It is the one where "Buffy hopes to learn more about what she's up against with the First! [Jenny gasps] By taking Spike prisoner. Xander and Anya interrogate Andrew." They sure the fuck do, don't they? [both laugh] Alright, thank you for bearing with all of my tangents, Jenny.
Jenny: Well, speaking of tangents, Kristin, I've assessed, I've done the research, I've checked the logs. And I'm gonna guess that this episode came in short because the Previously Ons are two minutes and twelve seconds long. [Kristin laughs] And there's also one really weird ADR hold situation that I will highlight [laughing] when we get there that makes me think they were just, like, trying to milk every second they could cram into this episode.
Kristin: Yeah, it did feel-like, I mean, I enjoy this episode. But it definitely-especially as someone who diligently takes notes though every episode-I, like, got to the end of taking notes and was like, oh. Well, that wasn't-you know. [both laugh] Like, there was some-there was some meaty stuff in here, but all in all, it felt like a lighter episode. Not lighter in, like, a ha-ha way but lighter in terms of how much content we in-took.
Jenny: Yeah, they're just-they're definitely just trying to get to the end point of the episode.
Kristin: Yeah, 'cause this is, like, the-this is like, we are establishing now. Like, we-a lot of shit-
Jenny: [simultaneously] [singsong] Things are happening.
Kristin: Yeah, now we're in. We've had the girls back in the Previously Ons getting murdered, for a couple episodes. And now, I mean, forget it. The fucking Council goes ka-blooey. We get the First named. We got a lot of shit-
Jenny: Yep, yep, yep.
Kristin: [simultaneously] We're laying down the bricks, people!
Jenny: Let me take you on a tour-a whirlwind tour-
Kristin: Okay.
Jenny: A rollercoaster ride through the Previouslys. Previously on Buffy the Vampire Slayer, Andrew and Warren and Jonathan, oh my. There was a bloody seal. Dawn saw Joyce and Joyce said some scary stuff and Willow said, nah, that was a fake mom. And Willow also said the thing about chomping! And then some girls were stabbed, you remember them, and then Spike's been feeding on human blood. And something was talking to him and making him do things. And also, Spike can feel all his kill-I can feel the kill-does he real-you know what I mean? Does that-do we necessarily need that in the Previously Ons to-
Kristin: No. I mean, we don't need a lot of this. Because like, why do we have Joyce saying that to Dawn in the Previously On, for example?
Jenny: And! Buffy's gonna help him and keep him close. And Robson and Giles! [laughs] It's just like-
Kristin: [simultaneously] Dude! Also, how dare you end an episode-
Jenny: [simultaneously] It's the whole episode. [laughs]
Kristin: With a fucking knife about to behead Giles and not give us an update? How actually dare you.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Well, we do-we do get an update of sorts. We'll get there. [both laugh] I have some data for you to consider.
Kristin: Okay, alright. 'Cause I'm pissed. But yeah, it was a very-[laughs] a very long and winding Previously On. It's kind of fitting, since our intro was longer and windy-er than it ever has been before.
Jenny: Art imitates life-
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Life imitates art, la-la-la.
Kristin: Oh.
Jenny: At the top of the episode, the question-[laughs]
Kristin: [simultaneously] Xander's measuring twice.
Jenny: And cutting once, which we love.
Kristin: Uh-huh.
Jenny: And also, Dawn's asking the question that many people watching this show [Kristin laughs] who don't have a crush on Spike are also always asking. Why is Spike still alive? Anya-[laughs] very reasonably-shores up this inquiry by saying, "Hey, shouldn't we stab him through the chest? Isn't that what we do when these things happen?"
Kristin: Yeah, I mean-
Jenny: [simultaneously] As she tenderly fingers her now fully healed former chest knife wound.
Kristin: [laughs] I mean, yeah, Dawn and Spike asking very similar questions about Spike in this question. Why…am I alive?
Jenny: And check out Anya trying to recruit Xander-
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: To Team Kill Spike. But he's refusing to get involved, for once.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Why? Like, I don't-'cause we talked a little bit last episode-
Jenny: [simultaneously] He's busy measuring twice.
Kristin: About how, you know, I really-
Jenny: [simultaneously] [gasps] It's because they were roommates.
Kristin: Do you think that is-like, do you think that's what it was? Is like, when they were roommates the first time, it was mostly just, like, a lust-based thing. And then, [Jenny snorts] like, this time, they're like-
Jenny: It's become more tender?
Kristin: Yeah. Like, maybe it was a little more tender, they caught some feelings. Because I don't-I mean, I don't know what other evidence we have here for Xander being as sort of, like, balanced and-he's sort of, like, in line with Willow, which we haven't seen, with Spike.
Jenny: I think-I think that he is displaying that he trusts Buffy?
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: You know, they've been having some pretty direct conversations about Spike lately. And I think he's just-you know-she's the leader of the squad.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And he's getting behind her. Which, you know, is not always what he gets up to.
Kristin: Yeah, well, I mean, I'm happy for it. Whether it happened because of tender-tender roommates or just because of Xander growth, I am here for it. So. [laughs] Anya ends this scene by saying, "I just think we should prepare for William the Bloody to be back." And then it cuts immediately to-
Jenny: Oh. [laughs]
Kristin: A swooping leather duster just walking confidently down the sidewalk-
Jenny: Yep.
Kristin: And the camera pans up and it's fucking Andrew.
Jenny: It really is, and he doesn't wanna do Incorporeal Warren's bidding right now. He just wants to walk around in his coat, okay? [both laugh]
Kristin: Andrew-not to, like-'cause this is-this is a hilarious episode. And Tom Lenk is truly one of the fucking funniest motherfuckers out there. He is so good at doing this. But I've just been reflecting a little bit on, like, my own feelings about this kind of comedy being used to make us feel more endeared toward a character [laughs] that ostensibly is pretty bad. Because, like, Warren is just awful. Like, he's never been anything but awful. And Jonathan-we talked about, of course-like, was sort of always the-as much of a conscience as the Trio could have-was, like, the conscience of the Trio. And like, was definitely grappling and made some good choices and tried to make some other good choices. And like, Andrew just clearly is a pissy little coward who wants what he wants for himself, and is fucking hysterical in the pursuit of that. And so it just-I just, like, am trying to hold both of those things through this viewing. Because I think every other viewing of this and also just, like, characters like this, I just kind of let go of the evil. I'm like, eh, but they're so funny!
Jenny: Sure, sure, sure.
Kristin: Which feels a little dangerous. So I'm just saying that. That's my-Kristin's Therapy Corner over here.
Jenny: Sure.
Kristin: It's what I'm processing. [laughs]
Jenny: Well, you know, something that's at the front of my mind, especially last season and this season, is like, why do we watch television? A variety of reasons, but I think one of the main ones is to have fun? But you need conflict-
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: To have a story.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: So it's nice. It kind of reminds me of the mayor, you know? It's nice sometimes to have-
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Complex individuals [Kristin laughs] who make it really fun to watch this show, even if they aren't, you know, morally pure.
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah. And I'm here for that, I'm totally here for that. I think-I think with the mayor, it's really clear. That's, like, you know-'cause like, the mayor is the fucking Big Bad. The mayor is clearly wanting to, like, just destroy the world and what have you. But the mayor has these complex things, like how much he loves Faith and whatever. So that just feels a little clearer to me. Andrew's just kinda like bad news bears, but also hilarious. But yes. I mean, like, your point stands. I'm just…I'm whittling even more nuance into it over here.
Jenny: Speaking of whittling.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Um…
Kristin: How are you gonna do that? Where-how're you gonna-let's see where this transition from Jenny Owen Youngs goes.
Jenny: Nah, it's nothing. [Kristin laughs] Here I am. You know, holding a scepter that has a large jewel affixed at the top, waiting for exactly the right placement of the sun, the 25th day of the second month. And I raise the scepter to the beam ofsun at exactly 12:15 PM Eastern time. And a shaft of sunlight pierces its way through the gem, and is funneled directly onto a tiny crack in the wall I hadn't noticed before. And I walk over to the crack and I [blows out] blow on it. Dust flies, and then I realize there's a tiny little catch inside of this crack. And I get out my knife and I jam it in there-
Kristin: [simultaneously] Just pause for a second. I just wanna, you know, let the listener know that you and I both have no idea what Jenny is talking about. So don't feel confused. We're all on this journey together. Continue, Jenny.
Jenny: With surgical precision, I deftly activate the catch hidden in the wall cleft. And an unforeseen door springs open from the wall, revealing a hidden chamber. And in that chamber…is a pedestal. And on that pedestal, bathed in sunlight from above, is a tome entitled Kristin's Erotic Novella.
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: Volume 7.
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: I open the book. I blow…across the pages. Dust flies everywhere. And texts are revealed, magical texts, which you will now enjoy. "Don't go soft on me now. We're right in the trench, and the exhaust port's in sight. I need you. You're my iron fist." [Kristin laughs] What do you think?
Kristin: I am impressed with the glory that my erotic novel or my erotic novella-what was it in this story? I don't remember.
Jenny: It's a novella.
Kristin: Novella.
Jenny: You know.
Kristin: Yeah, fancier.
Jenny: Like, two and a half sentences.
Kristin: I couldn't-I was just waiting with bated breath. What is gonna be on this fancy, you know, display? What is so important? And I couldn't believe when my name was mentioned.
Jenny: Your own written works.
Kristin: My own words were there. [both laughing] Just absolutely astounding. I'm glad that I stayed with the story. [laughs]
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: Yeah. Um, yeah. This is-there's a few-there's a couple of erotic little novellas in here. But this one, um, is special. So Warren is basically talking about how he can't do these things 'cause he's incorporeal. You know.
Jenny: Mmm. Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: You know that feeling when you're incorporeal? [laughs]
Jenny: Yes, I do know that feeling!
Kristin: He says to Andrew, "I'm like your Obi-Wan." And Andrew says, "Or Patrick Swayze." Okay.
Jenny: Anyone citing Patrick Swayze ever is, by default, horny, the end.
Kristin: The end. Also, Patrick Swayze-
Jenny: I don't make the rules.
Kristin: Patrick Swayze and the movie Ghost have come up considerably in this season of Buffy the Vampire Slayer. Because we were just talking about that kiln. To the kiln? No. To the pottery wheel? What did you send them to? To the pottery-you-I think you-
Jenny: Probably-well, first you go to the wheel, then you go to the kiln to fire it.
Kristin: Yeah, but I just-in my memory, I'm like, wow, did she say kiln though? Because you meant pottery wheel. To the pottery wheel!
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: They don't ever fire that pottery. They just fuck at the-they just fuck around in the wet pottery.
Jenny: Oh, I finish what I start, Kristin.
Kristin: [laughing] Okay! I also want to let the listener know that a couple of years ago, Joanna Robinson began showing me movies for the first time. And the way that-the origin story was Star Wars. I had never seen any Star Wars. And in my initial note-taking to the internet before I dove in, I accidentally revealed that I thought that Obi-Wan was Obi-One. I was like, this is what I know about Star Wars. There's this guy and that guy and also Obi-One. [Jenny laughs] And everyone was like, it is not the number one. [both laugh] So. Just letting everyone know.
Jenny: In your defense, you know, you've got R2D2-
Kristin: Right? C-3PO?
Jenny: [simultaneously] C-3PO.
Kristin: [laughs] There's a lot of numbers. So. Anyway, yeah. Andrew clearly wanting to have some kind of ghost sex with Warren. And-but also saying, like, "I just don't think I can kill anybody else." [laughing] Like, as though that's a good quality.
Jenny: I think it's interesting that we see-should we just start calling it the First?
Kristin: I guess so. I mean, you know, what Buffy says goes around here, so-
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah, we're all just falling in line.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Warren the First morphs into Jonathan.
Kristin: Yep.
Jenny: And is like, "Hey, buddy! Thanks so much for killing me. This rules! Everything's gonna be okay. You're doing great. Just trust us."
Kristin: Yeah…and we learn that-[laughs] so this makes no sense. Because we learn that Jonathan was too little. He didn't have enough blood to open up this seal. So then, riddle me this. Okay? Here's some fucking-here's a hell math question for you.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: How much blood does Danny Strong have in his body, versus how much does a tiny piglet have in its body?
Jenny: Well, I think-[both laugh] I think the idea-based on what we see later with the amount of blood that comes out of Spike-
Kristin: Uh-huh.
Jenny: It looks like they just needed a top-off. They were like, [Kristin laughs] just shy. [laughs]
Kristin: So it's like-so, like, the-what is this thing called? The seal of Danzal-thorpe?
Jenny: [laughing] Danzalthar. [both laugh] "Danzal-thorpe."
Kristin: So like, it retained Jon-it's just like, sort of like you're filling it up to the-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: It's like a fundraiser? Like, in-[laughing]
Jenny: It's like, [creepy whisper] thirsty!
Kristin: You get to, like, $38,000 and they were just like-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: We need two more thousand and then we'll be good.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Yeah, two more marks on the Erlenmeyer flask of fundraising. [both laugh]
Kristin: Okay. Okay, well, I accept it. Yeah and good point, 'cause Spike-it's like, a couple dribbles.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Okay, so. Anyway. Before we get to the credits, we do a quick cut to Buffy's room. It took me so long to figure out whose rooms everyone was in. I don't-I just, like-I know that we've all swapped-
Jenny: [simultaneously] Oh. Yeah. Andrew, appropriately, is in Dawn's room.
NOTES: [laughs]
Kristin: Yeah, but it's like, everybody swapped rooms and the decor is, like, kinda the same-
Jenny: [simultaneously] Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: But kinda different. And it used to be, in the older seasons, that I knew where we were right away, but-
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Anyway. Spike is like, "You should make the knots tighter."
Jenny: Can I just say…girl, you are a vampire slayer, and you're using a couple little pieces of rope-
Kristin: What are we doing?
Jenny: To tie Spike to a little chair made out of wooden matchsticks?
Kristin: What are we doing?
Jenny: [loudly] There are manacles in the basement, honey!
Kristin: Literally. It's not like she's a stranger to putting her re-ensouled boyfriend vampire in chains! Why are we taking this detour?
Jenny: Oh! Is that where the manacles are from? Are they from Season 3, vamp mansion?
Kristin: I don't know. I mean, we've tangoed with, I think, a few sets of manacles. Didn't Oz have a set as well? [laughs]
Jenny: Oh, yeah. Yeah.
Kristin: Yeah, so I don't know. But yeah, I thought the same thing. I mean, I didn't really think it until they were then putting him in chains. And I was like, why did we not begin here? It's not like they were forcing him to be constrained. He wanted it just as much as them. It's not like-you know?
Jenny: Yeah. Just-
Kristin: [simultaneously] Just make him comfy in the basement, in the chains.
Jenny: I mean, the tails of the rope are, like, long enough that I feel like if he wriggled his wrist around, he could get at-like, it just-y'all.
Kristin: And he should have known, too. Like, he knows-he clearly-he delivers an entire monologue later about what he's capable of. He clearly must know that-
Jenny: The episode is short. Take your time! [both laugh] Secure this man! You have the luxury of moments to spare. [both laugh]
Kristin: Alright, so. Credits.
Jenny: [sings Buffy theme]
Kristin: Oh, and then where do we go next, Jenny? How exciting to be here.
Jenny: To the principal's office, Kristin!
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: Wood is threatening these kids with their permanent record. Please note, one of these children is named Grimes.
Kristin: Oh! [laughs] You think that's where, like, Grimes' name came from?
Jenny: I don't think so. [both laugh]
Kristin: I just wanna play a tiny little clip of music here, because when I hear anyone talk about permanent records, all I think of is the Violent Femmes.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Oh boy, here we go.
NOTES: ["Kiss Off" by Violent Femmes plays] I hope you know that this will go down on your permanent record! Oh, yeah? Well, don't get so distressed. Did I happen…
Kristin: [sighs] I loved the Violent Femme-I love the Violent Femmes. But like, particularly in this era and the, like, five to ten years prior. Boy did I love the fucking Violent Femmes. [Jenny laughs] Alright. So…Wood is bluffing, and I love this. I-this is an effective principal move, right? Just be honest. Not threatening to call the police, not that part. But like, just the, "You know what, I was bluffing and it's so much work for me to deal with this bullshit. Can you fucking just do what I'm asking you to do?" I feel like-
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: That's a more effective way to deal with teenagers than, like, fake threats and empty whatever. You know?
Jenny: I totally know. However. Knock-knock.
Kristin: Oh my god, why? Why?
Jenny: Rapping upon the principal's door, it's Dawn, letting Principal Wood know that Buffy isn't coming in today because she was vomiting, and then she was vomiting some more, and then some additional vomiting. [laughing] And she says-[Kristin laughs] she says, "Her exact words were…[both laugh] I've got stuff coming out both ends." And then Wood is-[laughs]
Kristin: It's amaz-D.B. Woodside's fucking acting in that mom-in that beat, just his face, is so good. [laughs]
Jenny: Staring into the middle distance, cursing the day he decided to pursue…a career-
Kristin: [simultaneously] [laughing] High school administration?
Jenny: In education. He says, "Thank you, that's-" and does this incredible half-squint that…I love so much [laughing] and says, "Very helpful." [both laugh] It's really good. Not a ton of Wood in this episode, but he's really making the most of his time.
Kristin: Oh my god. Truly, truly he is. So. [laughs] Now that's a scene that, like, again, delightful, fun, a bit funny, whatever. But like, [laughs] if this was an issue for time, that would have been the first thing to go. Because we don't really need to know that Buffy has gone-
Jenny: No, that rocks. It's one of the best parts of the episode. [laughs]
Kristin: No, it's great, but I'm just saying, like, content-wise-you know what I mean? Like, I guess we wanna establish-
Jenny: [simultaneously] No, no, we're looking to flesh this out, not cut it down.
Kristin: [laughs] Okay. Okay, excuse me, I'm sorry, I stand corrected. So, fucking Buffy Summers gets on the phone and she's like, 1-800, fucking, Councils-R-Us. [Jenny laughs] And she's calling Quentin's direct line. Like, where is-
Jenny: This man is allergic to the truth!
Kristin: [laughs] Where is Quentin's number written down? You know? Like, I just wanna see it. I want-like, how does she have it? Is it-does it say "the Council"? Is it-is it, like, a normal London number? Is it toll free?
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: Like, I wanna know more about how to call the Council.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Yeah, 1-800…have you or members of your community experienced a vampire-related disturbance? We wanna hear your story. Please call…[both laugh] do people call 1-800 in England or do they call…
Kristin: Oh.
Jenny: Something else?
Kristin: Shit. [laughing] I don't know.
Jenny: Call 420-69…uh…vampires, what-what. [Kristin laughs] So Buffy's like, listen, pal. 'Cause Quentin is like, "Giles? Never heard of him!" [laughs]
Kristin: So-but pause, because rewind back to earlier this season when Giles was, like, going to this fucking meeting and this thing. And I was like, but what is he fucking around with the Council for? That doesn't make any sense. And he wasn't, so I don't remember even what my references were from. But somebody will. He's talking about going on these, like, retreats and shit, but he's not 'cause…like, is it-are we to believe that, like, Giles was doing something that we're not supposed to know, so he was lying about being around the Council? Because this is-
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: This makes more sense to me, that Giles has not been fucking around with the Council, for a long time.
Jenny: I don't know, it's confusing!
Kristin: I know.
Jenny: Maybe he was going to non-Council retreats. Maybe he was gathering with ex-Watchers. Maybe he's just really tapped into a bunch of covens.
Kristin: Oh, ex-Watchers. That would be so nice for everyone. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah. So Quentin is just like, deny, deny, deny.
Kristin: "You don't need to get all British and dodgy," says Buffy.
Jenny: True!
Kristin: [laughs] Basically, he gets off the phone and he's like, "The girl-" why? Why do you have to call her "the girl," Quentin? [Jenny laughs] Stop it. "The girl knows nothing and we need to find Rupert Giles as soon as possible!" Dun-dun-dun!
Jenny: Yes, he has helpfully added a bunch of what I can only assume to be search rectangles onto a world map, Kristin. I've dropped a supporting photograph-
Kristin: Oh.
Jenny: Screenshot in the chat.
Kristin: Great.
Jenny: So you can see some of the areas he's staked out.
Kristin: [laughs] Okay, so just to be really clear-
Jenny: [simultaneously] Here's all the places-
Kristin: Jenny has sent me a photo of the map that Quentin is looking at. It is-
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Wow. Very special. Go ahead, talk about it, Jenny, please. [laughs]
Jenny: There are a lot of rectangles. Basically, the entirety of Western Europe? And Great Britain? Are included.
Kristin: They're all in at least one rectangle. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Part of Africa. Most of Scandinavia. Big eastern chunk of Russia.
Kristin: But like, there are places in-
Jenny: [simultaneously] What looks like [laughs] the southern tip of India. Got a little Thailand, a little Malaysia/Indonesia business. [Kristin laughs] No-he's definitely not in Australia-
Kristin: No-
Jenny: It has been completely ruled out.
Kristin: Even though Australia is literally the one place they mention in the scene, where they're like-[both laugh] the, like, death toll or whatever has gone up considerably-
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: In Australia. [laughs] So he's like-
Jenny: Well, if they know what the casualties in Australia are, perhaps they also received the "Giles isn't here" intel on the same call. [both laugh] In the same fax.
Kristin: Right, right. So he's about to take out his little mouse and, like, draw a rectangle over all of Australia.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: [laughs] Probably, like, big enough to also cover some of, like, Antarctica? Which is the one at the bottom?
Jenny: [laughs] Uh, yes. Yes-
Kristin: Yeah?
Jenny: Antarctica is down yonder.
Kristin: Great. Yeah, okay, so-yeah. Clearly these are smart-very smart people, at the Council. They're doing research. And we leave them, sadly finding nothing out about the fate of Giles or anything about where Giles is. And we go to-
Jenny: Well. I mean, they've narrowed it down, Kristin. [Kristin laughs] Give them some credit. [laughs]
Kristin: It's true. He's not in South Africa. And he's not in Australia. [both laugh] He doesn't appear to be in China?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Is that green land over there Iceland? He's not there. He's certainly not there. [both laugh] Alright, anyway. Spike is going through withdrawals from all the human blood that he has been ingesting. And Buffy, witnessing this, sort of, like, sees Willow in the hallway. [laughing] And Buffy's like, "We need blood." And Willow's like, "Do you want me to kill Anya?" And it's done very-comedically well. Comedically well.
Jenny: But this is not where they are anymore.
Kristin: True. Anya is in the fold. Anya is in the fold and we love her, but it's still a funny joke. Willow still makes it land. And also, Buffy helps it land 'cause Buffy doesn't even respond to it. Like, she's like, well, no, I think we-[both laugh] I think actually we should get animal blood instead. And then they have this really nice moment together, you know, where Willow-
Jenny: Oh, yeah. Friends checking in.
Kristin: I love-I, like, love this and I think that probably this is, like, something that will resonate for a lot of listeners. Of just-I'm a person who deflects, you know? Like, when-a lot of people will say, like, how are you? Especially my therapist, you know? Like, so how are you doing? And then, like, ten minutes later, she's like, okay, so can we come back to how are you doing? Like, I'll like, answer for everyone else and, like, [Jenny laughs] this-but this person is going through this. And like, I understand why they did that because of X or whatever. So I just felt like this was really nice, that Willow took this extra moment to, you know, just show how much she knows Buffy, show how much she cares for Buffy, and redirect her to say, like, I understand where Spike is at, but I'm asking about you. You know? And Buffy, classic-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Is like, "I'll be fine." [laughs]
Jenny: And…they decide that Willow's gonna go get some blood, some pig's blood. And she's happy to do it because Xander is lecturing about tool maintenance while he's doing his carpentry. And this is the moment I mentioned earlier where, after Willow says, like, "Xander keeps, like, lecturing me about tool maintenance." It cuts to Buffy. And it holds on this, like, very long reaction shot that just feels, like, a little weird. And then there's, like, a very obviously ADR'ed line from Willow where she says, "Tool talk, not my thing." Like…[Kristin laughs] that was so unnecessary. And like, the way that Buffy reacts to it and that we're holding-it just, like, feels a little funny, which was the next brick in my two-brick wall of, damn! Did this episode come in short or what? [laughs]
Kristin: Do you think that that was actually just, like, they tried to-they tried to, like, stick a lesbian joke and they didn't stick it well, so they had to just, like-[laughs] like, tiptoe out the door?
Jenny: Mm. When has not landing a lesbian joke ever stopped…
Kristin: [laughs] You're right.
Jenny: Non-lesbians from going for it? [both laugh]
Kristin: "Non-lesbians." [laughs] You can identify sexuality as one of two things. It's a binary. Lesbian or non-lesbian.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: Okay.
Jenny: I'm assuming-I'm just assuming that Drew Goddard and David Solomon are not lesbians.
Kristin: Yeah. I think that's safe. [laughs] So. Okay, so then we go to this ridiculous scene, where fucking Warren the First is down here-like, are we to believe that if the First, the First can be in many places at once? Or is the First just, like, truly investing part of their afternoon in this pig comedy? Like, is that what feels [Jenny snorts] the most important for the first, or-? [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah, I wonder if the First can do-can multitask.
Kristin: Right? I mean, I hope so. Because if not, then I would like to have a word with the First. [laughs] About time management.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Well, the First is trying to accomplish a very clear goal here.
Kristin: But of all the people in the world, just find somebody else to go to the butcher. Find somebody to just fucking-what are doing?
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: You know?
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: Maybe it has to come out of a living thing, but still, really? Andrew? I mean, thank you, 'cause it gives us comedy. But it just feels a little under par for evil. [laughs]
Jenny: This pig is cute.
Kristin: Oh my god, the pig is so cute. The pig is like, I fucking saw what happened to Herbert. And I am fucking outta here! [both laugh] May Herbert be the last pig to die at Sunnydale High School, [Jenny laughs] for fuck's sake. So Warren's like-it's like, stupid funny. And I'm here. I-like, I accept it. "Cut her deep. Cut her quick." [laughing] And Andrew's like, "What if she squeals?" and Warren's like, [Jenny groans] "You're right, cut her throat first." And then, Andrew has a moment wherehe reflects on Babe 2: Pig in the City being an underrated film. I have not-I don'tthink I've seen Babe 2: Pig in the City. I have seen Babe, of course. Who would I be if I hadn't seen Babe? But I don't remember Pig in the City. I imagine that, you know, Babe winds up in the city and all manner of hijinks happens. So perhaps we should watch it. [laughs]
Jenny: I've never seen any movies in the Babeverse.
Kristin: Ohh.
Jenny: But-
Kristin: But you did the next pig reference, didn't you?
Jenny: [laughs] Of course.
Kristin: Of course. As Andrew fucking launches himself [laughing] at this piglet, he screams-it's so funny! "That'll do, pig!" as his whole small body flies across the screen. [sighs] He says-
Jenny: Strange choice for a war cry. [laughs]
Kristin: Yeah, but it's funny. He says twice in this episode, "I'm not very good at stabbing." He's, like, really fixating on the fact that he's just, like, really not good at stabbing. You know? [both laugh]
Jenny: Buddy. We all have stuff we're not good at.
Kristin: So, more comedy at the butcher's-[laughs] I almost just said the butcher's office. I mean, I guess it is his office.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: [laughing] Andrew is like, "I'll have twelve pork chops, two pounds of sausage, [quickly] a quart of pig's blood, [normal] and three steaks." [both laugh]
Jenny: I feel like we see people buying blood at the butcher-
Kristin: All the time.
Jenny: A lot.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And I can't remember if we've ever thought to ask before if this is, like, norm-like, if you can just get…blood. Don't worry-
Kristin: You can. I think we have asked it, a long time ago. 'Cause I feel like there-like, I feel like I remember reading recipes that had blood in them, and wishing that I had-that we hadn't asked the question. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Like, doesn't-isn't there, like, a pudding of some kind that is clearly not pudding, as we would consider it, but that is made of blood? And other things?
Jenny: Black pudding?
Kristin: Black pudding?
Jenny: Uh, I…that's what I'm looking at somebody talking about really wanting to make for themselves. And then going to a bunch of butchers and butchers telling them that they can't sell them blood. Hmmmm. There seems to be some disagreement on the internet. And, um…apparently, we went down this road before, so best to soldier on bravely.
Kristin: [simultaneously] I mean, this is a podcast about vampires. It only makes sense that in six years, we would ponder twice what recipes-
Jenny: Twice.
Kristin: Require large quantities of blood-of animal blood. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah, and where you can get said blood.
Kristin: So the butcher-okay. Let me get a tiny-I would like a scene of this butcher's life when he's not behind the butcher counter. Because he legit calls Andrew "Neo." And I just am like, this dude-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: This dude went and saw The Matrix?
Jenny: So he-yeah, he saw The Matrix. [laughs]
Kristin: I love it.
Jenny: It's also funny that Andrew orders pork chops, sausage, blood, steaks, halibut, and toothpaste. And the butcher only bumps on "toothpaste."
Kristin: Sometimes butchers have, like, a couple of fish around, right?
Jenny: [hums uncertainly] Do they?
Kristin: Just like a couple-a couple little guys, just in case you got somebody coming over that doesn't eat meat. And you're like, ugh-
Jenny: [uncertain, high-pitched] Okay.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Gotta get a halibut for that guy. You know?
Jenny: Okay, alright.
Kristin: So, he has his paper bag full of all of his blood and all of his various meats. And he turns around to leave the butcher shop and runs directly into Willow Rosenberg-
Jenny: [simultaneously] Ugh.
Kristin: Dropping his groceries. The blood clearly placed at the top of the bag, all comes out.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: [laughs] And he runs into the alley-
Jenny: [simultaneously] How embarrassing.
Kristin: Screaming, "Don't kill me! Warren did it!" [both laugh]
Jenny: Uh-huh, uh-huh, uh-huh. Oh my gosh, pleading for his safety. Maybe stay away from, "also, Warren killed Tara, not me."
Kristin: Oh my god. "You killed my best friend, so we're even." [laughs]
Jenny: Ooooogh.
Kristin: He tries to tell Willow that he's good now. And she-[Jenny snorts] like, it takes one second. He's like, "I'm good now, I do very good things." And Willow's like, "Then why do you have 400 bags of blood?" And he's like…[both laugh] "I'm bad." Let's, um-let's hear this exchange between Willow and Andrew 'cause it's really very good.
NOTES: [Clip from episode plays]
Andrew: I am bad. I'm bad, I'm evil. But I'm protected by powerful forces, forces you can't even begin to imagine, little girl! If you harm me, you shall know the wrath of he that is darkness and terror. Your blood will boil and you will know true suffering. Stand down, she-witch, your defeat is at hand-
NOTES: [hitting noise]
Willow: Shut your mouth. I am a she-witch. A very powerful she-witch. Or…witch, as is more accurate. I'm not to be trifled with.
Andrew: But I-
Willow: I'm talking! Don't interrupt me. Insignificant man.
Jenny: I am Willow! I am death! If you dare defy me, I will call down my fury, exact fresh vengeance and make your worst fears come true! Okay.
Kristin: Yeah, that's great. When I talked to Jenny about the sound clip, I was like, do you want me to extend it through the end, or do you wanna do it? And she said, I'll do it. So. You're all welcome for that.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: [laughs] [sings] "There's a she-witch in your closet!" You know? [both laugh] So, okay. We go back to the Summers house and in walks Willow with Andrew and is like, "Guess who I found buying massive amounts of blood at the fucking butcher shop?" [laughing] And Andrew says to Xander, "You'll get nothing out of me, carpenter!" [Jenny sighs] And Xander's like, "We'll see about that."
Jenny: Yeah, we're having a special on tying people to chairs today.
Kristin: Oh my god. Two for one. Two for one.
Jenny: My number one favorite thing that happens is Andrew says, "Careful with the coat," [Kristin laughs] and Anya says, "Oh, is it new?" and drops it on the ground and steps on it with her little shoe.
Kristin: This is, like-I feel like Emma Caulfield and Tom Lenk had to have the fucking best time together, in anything they got to do together. Because they are both just so funny. And I feel like if you're an actor that has, like, really great comedic timing, it has to be a joy to work with somebody else-it's just like-it just feels like they're having, oh, so much fun.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah.
Kristin: So she-[laughing] yeah, she stomps all over his coat. He tries to explain the blood away by saying he met a beautiful vampire girl in Mexico, and they're trying to clean up their acts and get their lives together.
Jenny: Yeah…
Kristin: Um, then Anya-
Jenny: [simultaneously] Anya's like, "This is not a game!" and slaps him across the face. [both laugh]
Kristin: First of all, she also says "junior" and later, she calls him "pipsqueak." And all of her nicknames for Andrew are my favorite, especially pipsqueak. [Jenny laughs] Yeah, she does, she knocks him out. And Xander's like, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. So we think-we think that, like, Xander's gonna be like, you know, maybe-maybe, like, don't punch him. We don't wanna hurt him. Or I don't know what you think Xander's gonna do, but instead, it becomes very clear very quickly that Xander and Anya may not be suited for marriage, but they are suited for inquisitions-
Jenny: Teamwork!
Kristin: Yeah. Teamwork. They're like you and me, Jenny.
Jenny: I know!
Kristin: We weren't suited for marriage but we were suited to talk about Buffy the Vampire Slayer together. [laughs]
Jenny: Look at us go. While Buffy is busy-
Kristin: Ugh!
Jenny: Feeding Spike from a little blood bag-bleghhh!
Kristin: My location is just "ew" for that little mini-scene. [Jenny laughs] Why did they have to make it look like this? Like, they could-
Jenny: Unknown.
Kristin: We've seen them put blood in a cup and use a straw. And it is so much preferred to this, like-it just looks like a boob. It looks like he's, like, nursing on a blood boob [Jenny laughs] and I fucking hate it. It's so gross. So, before we get this longer scene between Buffy and Spike, Buffy pops into-love a bathroom with two entrances. You know, this is like an upstairs of a house-
Jenny: [laughs] I do not! This is a danger zone.
Kristin: I-well, but for TV. For like, television and movie purposes-
Jenny: Sure.
Kristin: Like, a house with two stairways or, like, a bathroom with two entrances. It usually just makes for fun scenes. So Buffy pops in and is like, "How's it going with your guy?" [laughing] And Anya's like, "The weasel wants to sing." And Xander goes, "He's primed. I'll be pumping him in no time." And then there's a very long pause. [both laugh] Cool.
Jenny: Well. I had a whole little bit about how I was making my way through an ancient temple ruin [Kristin laughs] in the middle of a jungle, searching for an ancient artifact. In fact, a very important novella. And I finally come across it, deep in the heart of the ruin. But oh no, it's on a pressure-sensitive plate. I heft a bag of sand in my hand [both laughing] to make sure it's the same weight as the tome.
Kristin: Like, you're all thinking you're getting the best of it. But I'm the one who gets to see her stupid fucking hand bobbing up and down with an imaginary bag of sand in it, as she does this shit, okay? [both laugh] [pause] You done? Are you-
Jenny: With the reflexes of jaguar [pronounced jag-you-are]-
Kristin: Jag-you-are?
Jenny: That's right. [both laughing]
Kristin: What are you, Andrew? [both laugh] Okay.
Jenny: I deftly snatch up the tome and [laughing] simultaneously place the bag of sand down on the pressure-sensitive plate. I open to the center of the book, and what does it say but, "He's primed! I'll be pumping him in no time." Quoth Kristin Russo!
Kristin: When people listen back to this episode, they're gonna be like, were they filling for time? It seems like…[both laugh] alright, so. Now to more serious conversations. Buffy and Spike. He's explaining his experience. "I don't really remember, I'm just seeing flashes. I've been losing time since I came back." And he sort of thinks-like, this is really kind of nice-a nice set up. Because it does make sense that Spike might attribute some of the weird, fucked-up shit that's been happening to the fact that he legit got his soul back, you know? Like, it does-I think it's plausible that he would be, like, reasoning some of it away. And just thinking that-
Jenny: Yeah. He's clearly been having a time-
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Apart from what the First has been up to.
Kristin: Yeah. We learn that he didn't know the chip wasn't working still, which is interesting-is that, like, it was in his psyche enough that it didn't even need to be working for him to feel like he couldn't hurt people, kind of a deal. Because, like, we saw him punch Xander and, like, be in enormous amounts of pain. So-
Jenny: I think that he actually is experiencing pain when he is consciously Spike and hurting people, like punching Xander. I think when he is-when the sleeper agent within him is triggered, the same power that is controlling-
Kristin: Him controls the chip?
Jenny: [simultaneously] His consciousness is also preventing him from experiencing that neurological pain. I think.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Right. But then that dialogue-if that's the truth, then that dialogue is written a little weird. 'Cause she says, "When did the chip stop working?" and he just says, "I wasn't aware that it had, until now."
Jenny: "I wasn't aware that it had." Like-
Kristin: Yeah, okay. Alright.
Jenny: I mean, with a basement full of bodies as proof-
Kristin: Right. Right. Okay. So then, Buffy asks him how he got his soul back. She's doing a great job. Like, you know, this whole idea that she's needing to get closer to Spike to get closer to whatever this thing is. Like, turns out it was a pretty good idea, because she's asking a lot of really important questions. And by the end of the episode, has put it all together to kind of come to a conclusion. So-
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Just A-plus for Buffy on that plan. And yeah, he sort of talks about how it was-there were a lot of trials that he had to go to, but like, the pain and the suffering was nothing compared to how he's felt since he's fallen in love with Buffy.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And then they have what I think is a really interesting exchange, yeah?
Jenny: Yeah, definitely interesting. Spike says, "You used me." And then he says, "You told me that, of course, but I never understood it until now. You hated yourself and you took it out on me." And he says that having a soul has allowed him to understand self-loathing.
Kristin: Yeah, which is-like, that is an interesting point. I mean, we'll get further into this when they, like, continue basically this idea in conversation later. But-
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: It is sort of like-we've been talking a lot about, like, what the hell is a soul? And like, why does it mat-like, why does it matter? You can hurt people and do really bad things with a soul and what have you. And I think that this is just more underlining of like, you know, when Spike, when Angelus-when they are vampires with no souls, they do horrible things but they feel fucking great about it. [laughs] They don't-there's no-
Jenny: Yeah. They're just like, wassup! [laughs]
Kristin: [simultaneously] There is just no-it's more of a conscience than a soul. It's like-it's just sort of like having a moral compass of some kind or feeling the consequences of your actions.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And so Spike is trying to say that he understands that weight. But he applies that in ways that are a little heavy handed, which Buffy will correct him on later.
Jenny: Mmhmm. Okay, so good cop Harris comes in with a glass of water. [Kristin laughs] Untying Andrew's hands, apologizing for Anya hitting him. And he's like, "Listen, you gotta watch out for that one, you know, she's a vengeance demon," trying to put some fear in Andrew's heart. And Andrew's like, "One time I saw her having sex with Spike."
Kristin: [laughs] And then Xander's like, "Let me tell you what she's capable of." [laughs] And at first-at least for me, at first I was like, is he gonna struggle and, like-you know, 'cause they do this thing on the show a lot where it's like, they will try to say something that's really bad. But they're awkward and they mess it up and it's funny. And it becomes really clear really quickly that he's just talking about himself. And he's like, "She did this thing to this guy one time where she, like, took out his heart and then replaced it with darkness. [laughing] But he, like, still had to go to work and talk to his friends all the time." And I'm like, dude.
Jenny: My dude.
Kristin: Perhaps we should review the order of events. Because I don't-I don't-I mean, it's like, funny, but-
Jenny: We're not impressed.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Andrew's not impressed.
Kristin: No.
Jenny: Xander quickly course-corrects and is like, "Ah, but then she tore out his intestines and rubbed 'em in his face and took pictures of it!"
Kristin: [simultaneously] And took a picture! [both laugh] I love that taking a picture of it was, like, part of the evil. Like-[laughs]
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Yeah, he's like, "The girls all need someone to blame, so like, you know, watch out, man." And Anya, hearing Andrew say that, like, he hasn't done anything wrong or whatever the fuck he says, comes flying into the room. "You lying son of a-!" [both laugh] And-
Jenny: Throwing him out of the chair, slapping Xander clean across the face.
Kristin: This is-
Jenny: [simultaneously] Their…reactions. [laughs]
Kristin: This is the peak of comedy from Emma Caulfield for me, is this moment, where-[laughs] she's looking at Xander and so dramatically, she just mouths "I'm sorry." [both laugh] It's really good. I love the two-I love-I would have loved a buddy cop spinoff-
Jenny: [simultaneously] And his little "ow!" face.
Kristin: Here from Anya and Xander. They do a great job together.
Jenny: Yeah. Buffy comes in to investigate and is like, "Everything okay?" Frozen in their assault poses. [both laugh] They're like, "Yes, thank you. Everything's fine."
Kristin: Oh, it's very good. And unfortunately, before Buffy gets this beautiful tableau, when she closes the door to her room, we find out, uh-oh! Spike #2 is here, behind the door, looking very evil.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And he says, "We've got ourselves a problem." So when Buffy returns to the door, she hears Spike talking to himself inside, and singing again. We get the little-
Jenny: Mmhmm!
Kristin: Clips of this song. And she walks in. She's like, "So…what the fuck? Are you okay?" And he's like, "Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I'm…totally fine."
Jenny: Cool as a cucumber.
Kristin: Just feeling a little peckish. A word I do love. I love the word peckish. No?
Jenny: Mm…
Kristin: You don't like it?
Jenny: I don't like it.
Kristin: Okay.
Jenny: You can have it. It's yours.
Kristin: Okay, great, I'll keep it. Buffy goes to get the blood. And Spike, as previously mentioned, snaps the chair of little toothpicks, like what they are-
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And-[laughs] the-let me say something. The vampire growls have been getting more intense as the seasons have gone on.
Jenny: Just plain lion roars.
Kristin: Just fully the MGM lion. [laughs] Like, fully-
Jenny: It's really a lot.
Kristin: Just-a very big roar from Spike here.
Jenny: Spike basically just gets Buffy out of the way. He's not trying to, like-
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Explicitly attack her. He's just trying to get through her.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: He…jams his arms through the fucking wall!
Kristin: Where are the studs?
Jenny: Uh, well one of them [Kristin laughs] has his arms through the fucking wall!
Kristin: I gave you that. That was like a-whatever you call it in basketball. A layup.
Jenny: Yeah. This is perhaps a poorly-constructed house, I don't know.
Kristin: [laughs] I mean, it just, like-you'd think-
Jenny: [simultaneously] Seems like there's-yeah.
Kristin: [simultaneously] I mean, not that Spike can't break a stud. I just didn't…[laughs] I just didn't see any wood. I saw only drywall.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah.
Kristin: And certainly the span of Spike's arms coming through the wall was larger than the common 16 inches between studs in a house, so. [both laugh] So anyway. Andrew-right before Andrew gets pulled through the wall, which is so fucking funny. It's so fucking funny when the arm comes through the wall. It's great. He says, "The seal of Danzal-thorpe." And then-[Jenny snorts] that's what it is, I'm sorry. It's-
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: I'm making it stick. Spike bites Andrew. And Buffy gets Spike off of Andrew. And you see Spike-well, there's two Spikes in the room at this point. You see real Spike on the ground, looking very dazed.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And Buffy, like, checks on Andrew to make sure he's, you know, alive or whatever. And then promptly kicks Spike in the face to knock him out.
Jenny: Oh, yeah. Ohh, yeah.
Kristin: So. Down in the living room. Oh, man. I can't even believe-I know we're not even there yet. But I'm just, like-every time I think about the living room and how they just fixed it, I just get so upset. You know? [both laugh] They just-they just-Xander's been measuring that window for at least 45 minutes straight. And it's just gonna break again. How many times does that-does anyone have a count? We've got some of you keeping tallies over here. Anybody know how many times this bay window has broken? Because it's just so many times. [Jenny laughs] It's so many.
Jenny: Oh yeah, I was noticing in the opening scene, when they're having their conversation about, like, "Why aren't we killing Spike?" As they're putting the living room back together and, like, dusting their Summers trinkets and whatnots. They have, like, some animal statuettes and little bit of this, little bit of that. But then there's just, like, a tiny chest of drawers that is too small-like, the drawers are too small to hold anything larger than, like, I don't know-[Kristin laughs] each drawer could hold, like, a couple of Post-It note…pads/
Kristin: Mmm. What about some crystals? Maybe it was where Willow used to keep her crystals.
Jenny: Okay, it could be the crystal-the mini crystal chest. Sure.
Kristin: [simultaneously] You know, quartz-quartz-based crystals on the top.
Jenny: Sure.
Kristin: You know, metal-based crystal-I don't know, guys.
Jenny: [laughing] What?
Kristin: [laughs] I was just thinking about, like…what's that silver crystal? That looks very silver? Like, that-I don't even know if there's a such thing as a quartz-based crystal. I was just picturing crystals that are, like, amethyst-
Jenny: Ohh.
Kristin: Rose quartz and…um…what have you versus something like a malachite or a-
Jenny: Sure.
Kristin: Lapis lazuli?
Jenny: [simultaneously] Hematite.
Kristin: What are those? What are those based out of? I know-just so everyone listening knows-
Jenny: [simultaneously] Lapis lazuli is-
Kristin: [simultaneously] I know lapis lazuli [pronounced la-zoo-lee], if that's how you say it-that's how I say it in my mind. But I know that because it was, like, a very important stone in the Vampire Diaries books. So…
Jenny: [quietly] Oh my god.
Kristin: I don't know anything about the show, really, but I know that I remember it from the books.
Jenny: I, in high school, weirdly worked at an expensive pen store for about a year.
Kristin: Yeah, I know this about you.
Jenny: But perhaps the listeners don't. Maybe I've talked about it before. But the most expensive pen that I ever sold to someone who had way too much money, if this is what they were spending that amount of money on a pen. [laughs]
Kristin: How much money?
Jenny: Uh, I think it was around $1200.
Kristin: Wow, for a pen.
Jenny: And it was made of, you know, gold and the way that I thought it waspronounced, lapis lazuli [pronounced: la-zoo-lie] was the inlay.
Kristin: Sounds much nicer.
Jenny: If you are part of our-what I assume is our vast gem-ologist listenership.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Could you let us know if either one of us is saying it right? We'd love to know.
Kristin: I mean, let's be real. Like, lapis lazuli is how me and the mom from Bob's Burgers say it. You know what I mean? Like, that-
Jenny: Yeah, it does feel like the Long-the regional Long Island pronunciation.
NOTES: [laughs]
Kristin: [simultaneously] [laughs] Yeah. But like, "and then she went to the store, she got some pizza and some lapis lazuli? Yeah, it was good. It was a good time."
Jenny: Oh, man. [Kristin laughs] Yeah, when you put it like that, it's real.
Kristin: [laughs] Anyway. I'm glad we solved the biggest mystery of this episode, which is what do they keep in the tiny drawers? [laughs]
Jenny: Cool.
Kristin: So anyway, down in the living room, they're like, you know, breaking it alldown. "It seemed like Spike didn't want anything to do with me," Buffy says. Dawn: "How's what's-his-name?" We'll get another press of that "no one knows who Andrew is" button later. She says, "When I got back, it was like he was a different person. [laughs] He was singing." Anya-
Jenny: Uh-oh.
Kristin: "Maybe it's another musical. A much crappier musical." [Jenny laughs] I love you. Also, your hair looks so good. Xander brings up this idea of a trigger, and I rolled my eyes and I was like, I cannot believe that they're going to use this fucking army shit again. I was so annoyed. And then, apparently, the writers-
Jenny: And then they didn't! [laughs]
Kristin: Also felt the same way, because they took a moment to have Willow be like, "Is this an army thing?" and he was like, "Nah, it's just from all the movies I watch."
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Phew. Saved.
Jenny: Okay, so they've got some plans. Dawn and Willow are gonna research what entities could be haunting slash controlling in this way. Xander and Anya are gonna research how to deactivate a trigger.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Great.
Kristin: Great.
Jenny: Everything, I'm sure, is gonna be fine.
Kristin: Great.
Jenny: Meanwhile, at the high school-
Kristin: Whaaat!
Jenny: [simultaneously] Wood is wrapping up for the night. And man, I would just never wanna be the last person in this building at night-
Kristin: No.
Jenny: You know what I mean?
Kristin: But I think he does explicitly want to be the last person in the building.
Jenny: Yeah, that might be…so he's just walking down the hallway when he catches a vibe [Kristin laughs] by the old basement "no student access" door. You know the one.
Kristin: I know the one. Oh, down he goes, directly-
Jenny: He makes his way-
Kristin: Just, like, does not need directions to the Seal of Danzal-thorpe, at all.
Jenny: Directly to the Seal of Hot Topic. And-
Kristin: Sees Jonathan. No shock there. We'll see him-
Jenny: Yep.
Kristin: Fucking burying that body, shortly. There's a lot of dirt-they needed a lot of dirt from the props department this season. [both laugh] You know? We don't often see this much digging and, like, burying of bodies-
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: In Buffy the Vampire Slayer. So Spike is now in chains in the basement. Buffy's cleaning his face off. I'm nervous. Like, I am having, like, PTSD of fake Buffy. So like, this whole episode that I'm watching, every time Buffy does anything nice, I'm like, it's not her! It's not her! But it's literally just her the whole time.
NOTES: [laughs]
Jenny: 'Cause you think it's the Buffybot?
Kristin: No, no! Because I think it's, like, the Buffy manifestation of the First.
Jenny: Oh, right.
Kristin: You know?
Jenny: Well, the First couldn't be cleaning his wounds.
Kristin: Right, 'cause the First is not corporeal. Right. But I still just panic-like, what-the minute that she was sitting there and she had, like, changed out of whatever she had been wearing into, like, a sexier, black top, I was like, not real!
Jenny: Uh-oh.
Kristin: Evil Buffy, that's evil Buffy! But it's not.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: She just was wearing a sexy black top.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Evil, sexier Buffy. [both laugh]
Kristin: Yeah, the show has effectively made me associate sexiness with evil. Great job, everyone.
Jenny: Mm.
Kristin: [laughs] So-
Jenny: More appropriate level of restraints being used.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Manacles in effect.
Kristin: He's like, "Did I hurt anyone?" And she's like, "You took a good chunk out of Andrew." We get a brief comedy beat. "Who?" "Tucker's brother." "Hmm."
Jenny: Why does he know who Tucker is?
Kristin: Everybody knows who Tucker is.
Jenny: Well.
Kristin: The prom was a big deal.
Jenny: Okay. Okay. [laughs]
Kristin: So Xander has a theory. And it is, you know, that you have this, like, trigger, basically, and that it's making you do these things. And Spike is like, "You have to kill me."
Jenny: Immediately.
Kristin: This is really rough. Because Spike is [Jenny groans] really trying to get Buffy to kill him. He's basically like, "Do you have any idea what I'm capable of? You've never met the real me." And it's kind of like Spike has also never met the real him. Because he's never had to hold the atrocities that he's done in this mind. And-
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: Yeah, he says, I-like, I-we don't need to go-you wanna hear it, you can listen to him say it. But it's really bad. And he talks about really, really atrocious and disturbing, horrible things that he's done. And Buffy's just like, "No. I'm not. Like, I'm not doing it." And then he takes this seed that he planted earlier, of like, I understand that you feel really shitty about yourself and that's, like, why you're using me. And he takes it and he applies it to this situation and he's like, "Have you asked yourself why you have not killed me yet? Because I know why. And don't rationalize with me about it. Like, you like men who hurt you because you need the pain and you need the hatred to do your job." No. No, sir. Incorrect.
Jenny: Buffy says she doesn't hate like that, not anymore.
Kristin: Anymore. Right. Right. Well, and I don't-I mean, we know-but like, I think Spike is trying to, like, paint one big brush over, like, specifically probably Angel and himself. You know?
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And that is not the case. Like, Angel, to Buffy, is something totally different. I mean, Angel is first love material. Buffy is still a very new Slayer at this point. She does not have the-I mean, she has the weight of the world on her shoulders when she's with Angel. But [laughs] little did she know that she would have the weight of 400 worlds on her shoulders, you know, by the time she gets to Season 6.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Mm. Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: And so I don't think you can hold those two things together as, like, evidence of why she makes the choices she makes. And so when she says that she doesn't do that anymore, I think she's specifically just referring to Season 6 and what she did with him and-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: You know, she did hate herself. And so deeply so, and just was so disgusted and overwhelmed with the world. But we've seen her-I mean, you know, I don't know that you ever completely heal from that. But she has definitely, like, healed a lot from that time. And she says some really powerful stuff to Spike, explaining where she is now and why she's not killing him now.
NOTES: [Clip from episode plays]
Buffy: You're not alive because of hate or pain. You're alive because I saw you change. Because I saw your penance.
NOTES: [chains rattle]
Spike: Window dressing.
Buffy: It'd be easier, wouldn't it? If it were an act? But it's not. You faced the monster inside of you and you fought back. You risked everything to be a better man.
Spike: Buffy-
Buffy: And you can be. You are. You may not see it, but I do. I do. I believe in you, Spike.
Jenny: And this is so great. Except oh no, the timing! The timing is so bad, because a bunch of men in robes bust into the house.
Kristin: Oh my god. And like, I-
Jenny: Don't they understand that a moment is being had?
Kristin: They don't care, Jenny. They don't care about that, they don't care about the fact that they clearly must have known that those windows just got fixed. They didn't have [Jenny laughs] to break them! They could have just come through the door! Like-
Jenny: [simultaneously] Use. The door. Well, they do come through the door, as well. [both laugh]
Kristin: You know? Just for goodness sake.
Jenny: But that's another thing, etiquette. If one of you is going to break the just-replaced-
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Picture window, have the decency for all of you to come through one broken window.
Kristin: And you know they don't lock the door, that goes into the kitchen. Just open it!
Jenny: No. They've never locked a door in their fucking lives.
Kristin: Never! Never! Oh, god. So all these, like, eyeless ninjas fucking roll through the Summers house. And meanwhile, Wood is, one scoop at a time, burying Jonathan, so we'll have to put a-
Jenny: [simultaneously] [laughing] One scoop at a time.
Kristin: Fucking pin in that, because that's troublesome. Dawn is kicking-
Jenny: Yeah, you like her little…?
Kristin: Ugh, that elbow throw that she does? She-
Jenny: Yeah, you like her little roll backwards, where she-
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: Kick-tosses that guy into the wall?
Kristin: Amazing fight sequence here. Because Dawn-in my opinion, Dawn wins 'cause, you know, she's not a Slayer and I think she pulls some incredible moves out. But also, we get Buffy fighting with Andrew. Like, using Andrew's entire body to knock these guys to the side. [both laugh] Which is so good. The-I don't know if you noticed this, Jenny, but while the fighting is happening in the living room, we get a clear shot of the wall where, episodes ago, Dawn had accidentally crossbow'ed a hole. And the hole is there.
Jenny: Oh, nice.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Dawn's crossbow hole is there, and I just wanna-
Jenny: Oh!
Kristin: Give a nod to the-
Jenny: I celebrate that continuity.
Kristin: Yes, that's great.
Jenny: Yet to be spackled.
Kristin: [laughs] Xander saves Dawn in a really nice move as well. Everybody is really showing up to this fight.
Jenny: Yes, and then we get a little double knife stabby-stab.
Kristin: Wow. And those knives are curved! So.
Jenny: [simultaneously] The Summers classic. They are so curved.
Kristin: So curved. Why is a knife-like, what is the effectiveness of a curved knife over a straight knife? Because clearly, they serve different purposes. And I-
Jenny: Well, I'm thinking…just, you know, spitballing here. I'm not a-I'm not very good at stabbing either. [Kristin laughs] But thinking about a curved dagger-
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Right? You're going in, but you're not just making a straight puncture. You imagine the blade is curving up-
Kristin: [simultaneously] So maybe you have, like, a higher-higher odds of hitting something that you wanna hit? Like a heart or an artery?
Jenny: And it's probably harder to heal.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Like-okay, so like, triangular blades-you know, like…if you were looking at, like, the-if you were looking at a knife directly head-on-
Kristin: Uh-huh.
Jenny: And the blade was slightly triangular-
Kristin: Okay.
Jenny: That design is specifically engineered to make a wound harder to close.
Kristin: Ohhh.
Jenny: Right? And harder to heal. So that you have a higher-even if you don't kill somebody right away, you have a higher chance of them bleeding out or dying from an infection or whatever.
Kristin: I see.
Jenny: I'm thinking a curved knife kind of does some of the same stuff.
Kristin: Okay.
Jenny: Maybe.
Kristin: Yeah. That makes sense. I mean, like, if you think about the human body, if you have a straight knife, there are many places that you could go straight through and not hit an organ. But like-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: If you're going up-in and up, then yeah, the odds of you hitting something good, or bad, however we're looking at it, is higher. Higher?
Jenny: Professional knife-ologists-
Kristin: Mmhmm. Is that-[inaudible]
Jenny: Kristin Russo and Jenny Owen Youngs, reporting for duty.
Kristin: Yeah-
Jenny: No wound too inscrutable.
Kristin: [laughs] So. They basically kick the shit out of all these guys. And then realize, at the end, that was the fucking point. And they just wanted to distract them all so they could get Spike.
Jenny: Nooooooo!
Kristin: Buffy sees one of them on the ground and this is when she, like-the giant Buffy lightbulb is going off.
Jenny: Yeah. She's like, "I. Have. Fought. This. Before!" [Kristin laughs] These dudes with the knives, Spike's ghosts, the people you all saw-
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: From beneath us-FBU! [Kristin laughs] It's all the same thing. It's the First!
Kristin: Whoa.
Jenny: From Amends! "Am I a righteous man?!" [Kristin laughs] Am I?!
Kristin: He's still working it out, man. He's still working it out. [laughs] [Jenny sighs] So. That's a big deal. That's a big deal. And you know who else thinks it's a big deal is the fucking Council, because-
Jenny: Uh-oh. Uh-oh!
Kristin: [simultaneously] Wow. It's like-[Jenny laughs] it's like a fucking trade floor when the stock market is crashing over there. You know what I mean? People are buzzing around.
Jenny: Things are hectic. Also, England hasn't become any less grainy [Kristin laughs] in the exterior shots, since last episode.
Kristin: [simultaneously] It's their grainy season, okay? It's their grainy season. The communications are out. Lydia is concerned. And he's like, "Lydia, my darling, don't worry."
Jenny: Mwah-mwah-mwah!
Kristin: "Still master of our fate and captains of our souls!" Okay. "The First Evil has declared war on this institution. It is time that we struck back." He says, "Get confirmations on all remaining operatives. Get them here. Prepare for mobilization. We will be going to the Hellmouth." Spoiler alert.
Jenny: No, they won't. RIP Council headquarters. Quentin Travers. Lydia.
Kristin: Good thing Giles wasn't there!
Jenny: Good thing. But where is he? So many unexplored rectangles remain…in play.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Jenny, I have told you a thousand times if I've told you once, he is not in central Russia or Australia!
Jenny: [laughs] Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay. [Kristin laughs] Back at the seal.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Spike is lashed up like the Vitruvian Man.
Kristin: Yeah, like, I don't like torture, but this device is cool.
Jenny: If you're gonna do it, get Vitruvian. I guess.
Kristin: The First is like, I'm a sucker for old classics. And like, I am too. Not necessarily in torture devices, but like, you know. I love an old fashioned thing, and this thing is just-like, if it weren't torturing Spike and bleeding him out, I just think it's a cool little…gear…circle, wooden, fucking cranky-crank thing. You know?
Jenny: I do know. Spike is to be bled.
Kristin: Mmm. They really do these cuts in a very precise way.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Here's a question.
Kristin: Mm.
Jenny: Why-why not just have the robes put the blood on the seal to begin with?
Kristin: Like, the guys that attacked? Those guys?
Jenny: Yeah, they're bleeding Spike out now. Why did the First lure Andrew and Jonathan to the seal?
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Although now that I'm thinking about it, I think there might be an answer waiting for us. So pretend I didn't say that.
Kristin: Okay. Yeah, so the First is like, "I was gonna bleed-" the First is now in the form of Buffy, that's important to note. And she's like, "I was going to bleed out Andrew, but you look a lot better shirtless." [laughs]
Jenny: Mmm!
Kristin: So is the evil-the First Evil bisexual?
Jenny: Uh…
Kristin: Canonically, it seems as such.
Jenny: Uhh…
Kristin: Evil said-
Jenny: [simultaneously] I mean, I think a lot of things about the First Evil are very fluid.
Kristin: Evil said, gender is not a binary and everyone is gay-
Jenny: [simultaneously] That's right.
Kristin: Dot com.
Jenny: Evil also said, "Wanna see what a real vampire looks like?"
Kristin: [laughs] No! We all collectively scream, no! We don't.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Nobody wants to-no. Unsubscribe!
Kristin: Don't show us, please don't show us. [laughs]
Jenny: Oh, but unfortunately, show us they must. Because the seal-
Kristin: No…
Jenny: Has its little foldy bits, and opens up, and from the depths emerges…your friend and mine, Camden Toy. [Kristin laughs] Lookin' like Nosfaratu. Uh, doing his little Gnarl fingers.
Kristin: Oh my god, his fingers are so long. They're so fucking long. I just wanna see him-I know you don't watch Euphoria, Jenny, but there was an incredible scene with the characters of Maddy and Cassie a couple episodes ago, where Maddy is really angry and she is fucking clacking her nails, man. It's so good, it's so effective, it's so delicious. And I would just like to see this old fucker do that same move. I just wanna see him clack his fucking nails in somebody's face, you know?
Jenny: Ohh.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Kinda like Gnarl?
Kristin: No-well, no. Gnarl clacked the nails of one hand together. That's a different situation.
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: This is both hands clacking together-
Jenny: Oh, I see.
Kristin: Like you're getting in someone's face and you're like, making-you know. I mean, you know from me-
Jenny: Clack, clack, clack! [laughs]
Kristin: As an Italian, when I'm fucking emphatic, I'm like, kinda doing this shit with my hands.
Jenny: Uh-huh, yes.
Kristin: So if I had long fucking nails, they'd be fucking clacking right in your little face, and that's what I wanna see this-
Jenny: [simultaneously] Clickety-clack. Okay.
Kristin: Yeah. That's what I wanna see this guy do.
Jenny: I see.
Kristin: [laughing] I also just wanna say that the closed captions-it's just like, "men chanting in Latin." And then you cut to the next fucking screen and it's this fucker. Which I just feel like-[both laugh]
Jenny: He also is, like, taking their-I don't know if this is their, like, milking for time again or what. [Kristin laughs] But the Ubervamp has its arms outstretched. Somehow, the seal opened, this guy came out, and then the seal closed 'cause now he's, like, on it or right next to it.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: It's a sealed-off situation now. His arms are out, his palms are outstretched, and he's staring, like, up and kind of, like, hiss-roaring. You know? And he's all [hisses]-[Kristin laughs] and it's like, they're in a basement. Like, the ceilings are not that high. I'm kinda curious about, like, what are you looking up towards? What's your motivation? What's going on, buddy? [Kristin laughs] What are you doing?
Kristin: Oh god. Well. Here we are. And Spike's like, "Well, fuck." [laughs] Spike is like, I am so glad that I am a young vampire. [both laugh] And somebody better kill me quick if that's what's gonna happen to me later.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Wow, so. Yeah. Well, I mean, nothing like a fucking growling, weird, long-fingered, ancient vampire to usher us into [laughing] the Sexual Tension Awards.
Jenny: Yes! Speaking of fingers for days. [Kristin laughs]
NOTES: [SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays] Sexual tension award!
Jenny: Well! Welcome back to another installment of the Sexual Tension Awards! Where we have four slots, and usually approximately eight noms, and we jam them in accordingly.
Kristin: Mmhmm, you know, you're gonna have some trouble jamming some of these, Jenny, 'cause some of 'em are incorporeal, so good luck. [laughs]
Jenny: Yes, my jamming fingers will pass right through them. [both laugh] In slot number one, I feel like it's been a while since we had a fun new ship name. Xanderand Andrew: Xandrew!
Kristin: Xandrew, thank you. I was gonna say Xandrew, I'm glad you did.
Jenny: A little good cop, bad cop.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: You know-
Kristin: One of them is backstabbing and the other one is good at probing. You know what I mean?
Jenny: Wow! [both laugh] Okay, let me submit my resignation really quick. In slot number two! Ohh, it's gonna be hard to make sure these stay put, these two noms in this little slot. [Kristin laughs] But the tension is high as we referenced before, novellas a-flying off-
Kristin: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Jenny: The shelves. It's Warren the First-
Kristin: Mm.
Jenny: And Andrew.
Kristin: Mmm. Yep.
Jenny: Mmhmm!
Kristin: Yep.
Jenny: In slot number three-I guess this is-
Kristin: [simultaneously] Can we play the-can you please queue up The Righteous Brothers for this one?
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: Okay. Yeah, just-just imagine in your mind-just, The Righteous Brothers are playing. Okay, go ahead, Jenny.
Jenny: In slot number three-actually, another pair of noms that features one incorporeal-it's Patrick Swayze in Ghost and Andrew. [both laugh] [sings] "Ohh my love! Makin' pottery! Oh, it's on the wheel!"
Kristin: [simultaneously] [laughs] [singing] "I've hungered for your touch but you can't touch because I'm incorporeal! My!"
Jenny: Yes. [laughs]
Kristin: Yeah, yeah. [hums tune]
Jenny: And in slot number four, some incorporealities just like to keep it simple. They like a man with his shirt off. Or a vampire, as the case may be. It's Buffy the First and Spike!
Kristin: [sighs] Never met an incorporeal, or corporeal, person who does not like to gaze upon the chest of Spike, you know?
Jenny: Uh, amen. So, hey, you probably have feelings just like we do. If you do and you'd like to cast a vote in our beautiful democracy, you can do so over on a poll on our Twitter, @BufferingCast, that will go live when this episode drops and stay live for one week. [spooky voice] Cast your vote! [normal] This is-I'm doing this voice 'cause-
Kristin: [simultaneously] Also, if you're incorporeal and you cannot touch the buttons on your screen, you can appear to us and we will tally your votes personally.
Jenny: Or you can appear to someone else-
Kristin: And have them press the button.
Jenny: Yes. [Kristin laughs]
NOTES: [SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays] Sexual tension award!
Kristin: Well, Jenny. Another episode down.
Jenny: We did it!
Kristin: We did it. We cracked the case, we figured out who was popping up all over Sunnydale. We still haven't located-[sings] "Where in the world is Rupert Giles?" [laughs]
Jenny: That's good. That's very good, Kristin. [laughs]
Kristin: [sings tune]
Jenny: Wow, I hope wherever he is, he's wearing a really big, wide, red hat and a long red trench coat. [both laugh] A look!
Kristin: Oh, god, it's good to me. A good episode. You know, a little all over the map, but like, we got a lot-what's the pressure on writing your last season of television? You know, like-
Jenny: Can't imagine.
Kristin: It's just gotta be so intense. So-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: I've got room for a little scattered-ness as we go. And I think we got a lot of facts. We've seen the curved knives again-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: We got the girls in the Previously Ons, the Council's gone. There's a lot of shit going on.
Jenny: Much was gained.
Kristin: Much. Much was gained and you know, we also got the comedic stylings of Anya and Andrew, which I always love.
Jenny: As do I. Two of my faves.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Together.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: You love to see it. Well. I guess that covers this episode.
Kristin: It does.
Jenny: Well. I'm Jenny Owen Youngs, and when I'm not watching Buffy and making this podcast, I'm usually making music and sometimes playing that music live. In fact, next week, I go on tour with my friend and yours, Hrishikesh Hirway. We'll be playing songs together in a collaborative set. We are taking the tour this spring to Philly, DC, Saugerties, Brooklyn, Boston, Portland Maine, Seattle, Portland Oregon, San Francisco, and Los Angeles! You can find tickets and info at jennyowenyoungs.com. And while you wait for those hot, spicy tour dates to roll around, you can pass the time by finding my songs on your favorite digital music platform, listening to them on repeat.
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: Or swinging by to say hello to me on socials, @JennyOwenYoungs. Lots of pictures of my dog can be found there.
Kristin: Ugh. Y'all, Frank took a nap for part of the recording today in my view. [Jenny laughs] And I was just like, so honored. It was hard for me to focus on anything else.
Jenny: Yeah, it's-he's very peaceful when he's sleeping. And only when he's sleeping.
Kristin: [simultaneously] He's very-also, right now, in Jenny's office, the thing right next to Frank's bed is a guitalele, so it kinda looks like a guitar sized for…[laughs] Frank.
Jenny: For Frank. Yeah, that's Frank's instrument, actually.
Kristin: I think he'd probably be better suited with a ukulele-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: But it still is a good ratio to have next to him.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah. [laughs]
Kristin: So…my name is Kristin Russo. Though many people don't even know my last name, because I talk about my middle name so much. [laughs] Listen, no one could have told me that in the year 2008, when I created my usernames across all platforms, I would be using them for large endeavors like this. [laughs] But there you have it. [Jenny laughs] My website is kristinnoeline. You can learn about the work that I do with LGBTQ communities. I do talks, virtually and some in person now, as well, for workplaces and colleges and educational institutions and all sorts of things. So you can learn about that at kristinnoeline.com. K-R-I-S-T-I-N N-O-E-L-I-N-E. And you can use that spelling to find me on Twitter and on Instagram. I have been talking a lot recently about my feelings for things such as cats, the show Euphoria, the movie Drop Dead Gorgeous. [both laugh] Among other things. Though by March 9th, who knows what I'll be on to?
Jenny: Sorry, I was just thinking about what you'd be on to. But I dare not make a prediction. [Kristin laughs] Uhh, what I can tell you-
Kristin: [simultaneously] Probably right now on my socials, I'm just screaming because I have two days left before I have to put on an entire prom-
Jenny: Ahhhhhhh!
Kristin: For, like, 500 people. That's probably what I'm doing right now.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah.
Kristin: I'm just screaming. [laughs]
Jenny: Well. While she screams, let me tell you, Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram @BufferingCast. And you can email us at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin: You can support our work on Patreon. Go to our website, that's where you can learn all of these things, bufferingthevampireslayer.com. You can click on Patreon there to join our Patreon family. You can also find our store from that site and get some fun merch. We, by now, probably have restocked the Pay Buffy Summers sweatpants, though now who are we speaking to? The Council has exploded. But someone should pay her! [laughs]
Jenny: Somebody, please!
Kristin: And you can just follow along. Our calendar's there. All sorts of good things. So, yeah.
Jenny: This episode was produced by Kristin Russo, Jenny Owen Youngs, and Alba Daza, with support from our consultant, Mackenzie MacDade. It was edited by John Mark Nelson. And, my friends, [Kristin laughs] corporeal and in, [Kristin laughs] till next time…
Both: Awwoooooooooo!