Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 6.21: Two to Go
NOTES: [CHIME]
Jenny: Hey, everybody! Ha-ha-ho!
Kristin: [chanting] Two to Go! Two to Go! Two to Go!
Jenny: I-
Kristin: Two to Go!
Jenny: I-
Kristin: Two to g-[abruptly stops]
Jenny: Alright.
Kristin: So, a few things. We have a bunch of things happening in Patreon coming up. First thing, and a very exciting thing, is that this Saturday-this very Saturday, we are going-
Jenny: Saturday, Saturday, Saturday!
Kristin: We are gonna be watching Angel Season 3 finale, Tomorrow, and Buffy Season 6 finale, Grave, together with the feuding hosts of Angel On Top. At 3 PM Eastern, we will all four of us-that's me, Jenny, Morgan and LaToya-watch Angel Season 3, Episode 22, Tomorrow. The name of the episode is Tomorrow. [Jenny laughs] Tomorrow is not Saturday. Then at 5 PM, the four of us-as long as we're still able to occupy the same Zoom room-
Jenny: Hmmm.
Kristin: Civilly, will be watching Buffy Season 6, Episode 22, Grave, together with you! You know that we've been doing the live watches for patrons on chat-like, on Slack chat. But we're making it special this time. The four of us are gonna be on fucking camera, watching together.
Jenny: Yay! Yay!
Kristin: Talking at you while we all-
Jenny: Yay!
Kristin: Watch together. So that is Sat-ur-day, September 11th, 3 PM Eastern, 5 PM Eastern, Angel On Top, Buffy the Vampire Slayer. Yeah!
Jenny: Being on Zoom will make it a lot easier for me to give LaToya and Morgan my evil eye.
Kristin: [laughs] Exactly. A couple other things you might wanna know about. One, if you are a patron at the $5 level or higher, you will get the first patron-only mailbag we've done in quite some time. That's gonna air the week after the finale here, so September 22nd. If you're feeling like, oh my god! I just miss them so much. Well. We can be in your ears, reading your mail back to you. Thrilling. [both laugh] And…if you are a $10 patron of ours or higher, we're carving fucking pumpkins on October the 9th.
Jenny: Sick!
Kristin: Saturday, October the 9th. Jenny's gonna play some songs. The pumpkins might play some songs.
Jenny: Sure.
Kristin: Jenny's gonna have a pumpkin, Kristin's gonna have a pumpkin. Maybe we'll even get teenie, tiny pumpkins for Frank and Sam and Gus. Who…[Jenny gasps] can say? [both laugh] Obviously-
Jenny: Ee-hee!
Kristin: Or not. You can find out all about our Patreon at bufferingthevampireslayer.com. Just click on Patreon.
Jenny: And hey, listen up. You know, we brought it out of retirement for the sake of Dark Willow. Our Bored Meow t-shirt-designed by the one, the only, the incredible Diana Kresge-is up for a limited time. In our US store, it's blue tie-dye. In our UK store, it's on deep maroon heather. In both places, [spooky voice] it's only up through the end of October! [laughs]
Kristin: That's a good ghost impression. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah. So if you want one, you should snag one now, [spooky voice] before it's too late! [Kristin laughs] Because that would be [laughs] very scary! [both laugh]
Kristin: A reminder that we're gonna be back next week, that you don't have to wait two weeks for Grave. You just have to wait one week. [Jenny gasps] Finale episodes for both Angel On Top and Buffering the Vampire Slayer air next week, Angel On Top hitting your ears on Tuesday. And our voices, once again, hitting your ears, talking about Dark Willow and her journey-[laughs uncomfortably]-airing next Wednesday. If you're wondering what the future looks like for Buffering the Vampire Slayer, we take a break between seasons, and we're gonna take about six weeks off, though we will be re-airing some of our Patreon-specific episodes that went up over the last few weeks, few months. We will be back with [singsong] Season 7! In early November.
Jenny: Yes! Well! And of course, you may be wondering whomst from the episode Villains took home the trophy, the Sexual Tension Award trophy? Well. Let me remind you that [clears throat] we did not have a poll in that episode. We just had a winner. It was Anya, in the Magic Box, feeling Willow, with her…vengeance demon receptors.
Kristin: [laughs] Very sexy. Anyway! We're gonna get outta here now. We're gonna be quiet, because less loopy versions of us-lucky for you-recorded our thoughts on an episode of television called Two to Go. So let's hear those former versions of ourselves.
Jenny: Yes!
NOTES: [Buffering theme plays]
Jenny: Hello! And welcome! To Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast where we are watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, one by one, spoiler free, in tandem with and no thanks to the [bleeped out] at our alleged sibling podcast, Angel On Top. I am Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: And I am Kristin Russo. And this week, hey! We have two to go, and hey, that's also the name of this episode, Season 6, Episode 21. That's what we're talking about. And if you stay tuned at the end of this podcast every other week, you will get a song. A beautiful, lovely song. As a matter of face, at the end of this podcast, you're going to get a song, written by Jenny Owen Youngs, as per usual, and also-
Jenny: [starts making drum snare beat noise]
Kristin: A jingle. As rewritten by Kristin Russo.
Jenny: [gasps] [continues drum snare beat noise]
Kristin: [laughs]
Jenny: There's a lot! There's a lot going on. Two to Go was written by Doug Petrie and directed by Bill L. Norton, whoever that is! [Kristin laughs] And originally aired on May 21st, 2002. Directly before-
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: The season finale.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Which we'll talk about next episode.
Kristin: Mmhmm. I know, I was like-[laughs] when I saw the Previously Ons, I was like, wait. Wait just now one second. Then I was like, oh yeah, these aired on the same day. A double feature, if you will. This is the one, according to TV Guide, [laughs] where "Buffy, Anya and Xander race to the Sunnydale police station"-which I've begun referring to in my notes as Sunnyjail, you're welcome-
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: "To try to save Jonathan and Andrew from a sorceress." [laughing] That's how TV Guide described-[both laugh]
Jenny: Unnamed sorceress.
Kristin: An unnamed sorceress. "Dawn persuades Clem to take her to Rack. Spike's stamina and courage are put to the test by a mysterious demon." TV Guide, just-just being sneaky, TV Guide. Just trying to sneak-oh, a sorceress, you say? I wonder who-
Jenny: Hmm. Who could it be? Whomst?
Kristin: Who could that be? So yeah, the Previously On, right? This is like-this is not-
Jenny: Previously on an entire year of television.
Kristin: Giving Xander the mic.
Jenny: These Previouslys have everything!
Kristin: [laughs] Right? It's Xander who's like, "Last-this is what's happened in the last year." I was like, what in the hell is happening? [laughs]
Jenny: Tony Head was, uh…you know, allegedly not around.
Kristin: That's true. That's true. He didn't bring his mic with him on the plane back from London.
Jenny: Mmhmm. Mmhmm.
Kristin: Yeah, a lot happened, huh? The year recap. Whew!
Jenny: I got so tired. Also, these Previouslys should have, like, 23 content warnings, including but not limited to human flaying.
Kristin: I mean, seriously. There's, like, some things in the Previously On that I was like, oh my god, and that was this season? That was also this-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: These people fucked a house down? That was still this season? [Jenny laughs] They had money issues? She was resurrected from the dead? Like, the wedding fell apart-it's all in one fucking season. I wrote down, like, a bunch of things, a bunch of things, a bunch of things. And then my last thing that I wrote down was, "Phewf!" [laughs] That's a lot of shit.
Jenny: Yeah. Exhausting Previouslys.
Kristin: So, um, yeah. We go into the episode and Xander has gotten-
Jenny: Three friends taking a lovely stroll in the woods! [Kristin laughs] Carefree, sniffing the flowers, observing the foliage. Sorry, I interrupted you.
Kristin: Oh, I was just gonna say Xander's gotten sick a few times already, which is understandable.
Jenny: Yeah, I love that Buffy's like, [Kristin laughs] "We don't have time for you to throw up a second time, Xander." [both laugh]
Kristin: I love-okay, so, right. Three friends taking a stroll after watching their fourth friend flay and disintegrate a human being. And-
Jenny: Blegh!
Kristin: The deal is Buffy can run really fast. Anya can teleport, which is hot, hot, hot-
Jenny: Very cool.
Kristin: [sim] As I write in my notes. The other thing that's super hot-
Jenny: Yep, yep.
Kristin: About Anya teleporting is that before she teleports, she lets us all know that what Willow has done at the end of last episode was a flashy trick, [laughing] but does not actually work very effectively. Which I think is…[Jenny laughs] I just thought it was a nice-a sick burn from Anya.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: And Xander-
Jenny: Wicked sick.
Kristin: RIP to that purple car. I loved it and now it is-it was killed by…Willow.
Jenny: There's something really poetic about Willow absolutely trashing Xander's purple car. [both laugh] A couple things that I think are worth talking about in this scene.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: You know, they're talking about the sound and the smell of the flaying and like, saying like, Willow did that. They're trying to, like, reconcile that, like, wonderful Willow, who we all know and love, did something truly wretched. Buffy asserts-
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: That Willow's got an addictive personality-
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And now she's had a taste of blood. I…have questions and no answers.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: But I just wanted to, like, touch it.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And then-
Kristin: Well, well, wait-
Jenny: And then. [laughs]
Kristin: Because you've touched it-because-I can see from the excited expression on your face that you're moving to a different topic. But, like, I do think that this is a bit of an issue. I mean, it's sort of-there are some…I mean, we probably already said this. But I just think in this whole arc-'cause I love Dark Willow. I am going to just delight in so much of Dark Willow in this episode. But there-
Jenny: It's very fun.
Kristin: There's definitely some very broad and problematic and also just, like, kinda wiggly brushstrokes in the arc of it.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And this is one of them. It's like, okay, Willow-and like, Willow killing Warren and then having a taste for it, to kill Jonathan and Andrew maybe. But then to kill all of her frien-it just, like-it's kind of a lot. And I agree that, like, pinning that on an addictive personality is just…um, yeah. Tell us your thoughts.
Jenny: Also. The last time, you know, Willow did too much magic, it had a real, like, party girl and, like, bad consequences-but like, party girl stakes-wise-
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Consequences. It didn't, like, you know, lead to friend-ricide.
Kristin: Right. Right, right.
Jenny: A leap is being taken.
Kristin: I wish-
Jenny: [sim] But we're all along for the ride and that's cool.
Kristin: Me too. I just wish that they-I wish that they had sort of, like, embedded some kind of, like, additional-I don't know-reason. Like, that Willow-in order to, like, get the magic she got, she had to trade off some-like, you know what I-maybe we're supposed to read into that. But it's just not made clear and I just wish that there was just a little bit more-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: There to help us get from, like, Willow to Dark Willow.
Jenny: There's a lot of metaphors in the stew at this point. [both laugh] And-
Kristin: [laughing] Yeah. The Previously On-
Jenny: Unclear whether all the flavors are complementary. [Kristin laughs] Okay. Are you ready for my-
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: The final thing about this scene?
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Okay. Buffy says, "Killing people changes you. Believe me, I know. It happened to my ex-girlfriend Faith one time when she killed the deputy mayor. And also, it happened to me when I thought I killed my ex-girlfriend. But then, she was in a coma. But then, [Kristin laughs] she came back. But then, there was a body swap. And then also I guess as an afterthought, I also killed my ex-boyfriend Angel while he had a soul. But mostly I'm thinking about Faith." Buffy said all of that, I looked at the transcript.
Kristin: [sim] Don't forget the Knight of Byzantium. [laughs] She also-
Jenny: Oh, that's-[laughs]
Kristin: She also killed that guy. [laughs] But yeah-
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: It's not a clear-
Jenny: But do Knights of Byzantium really count as, like, humans?
Kristin: No, but, like-
Jenny: In this universe?
Kristin: I just wanted to stop all of the furiously-typing, "yes but also" emails for the Knight of Byzantium. But like, I mean-
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: To your point, it's like, Faith-if we're using Faith, right? Like, Faith accidentally killed Allan. That was an accident and it did change her in that she was already kind of fucked up over a million things. And then she had this, like, reason to be like, well, now I've gone and really done it, so I might as well just spin off complete-like, it was just such a different-this is just-it's not an apples to apples in any way, shape or form. So I just-yeah. I think we're raising the flag on because Willow killed Warren, now she will kill anyone.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: So to Sunnyjail.
Jenny: [groans] And then, just adding insult to the injury of Xander's obliterated car, Buffy's like, "Meet me at the place," and just vaults off. Leaping over obstacles, into the night.
Kristin: Yeah. And I have, like-I mean, you know that I've been really-I'm over Xander. Like, I am-I am over Xander, hard fact. But I have a couple of moments of, like, room for Xander, and this is one of them. Where he's just, like, left with the car and he punches the car and he's like, "Glad I could help." Like, he's feeling very overwhelmed and frustrated. He just saw Willow kill a person in front of his eyeballs and his former fiancee and best friend both have the power to, like, rush to do things and he's left with this broken purple car. So, like, I have room for him to punch the car in this moment. He's by himself. He's not putting his, like, "oh poor me" on anyone. 'Cause we're just watching, from the comfort of our living rooms, we're watching Xander, by himself, be upset. Fair. I'll counterpoint that when we get to a later scene.
Jenny: [laughs] Okay. Credits, and then onto the Sunnyjail.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Andrew is searching his body! [laughs] For a hidden, implanted receiver. Eugh!
Kristin: Yeah, like, kinda funny but made exceptionally funny, in my opinion, when Jonathan then talks into Andrew's elbow. That's-[laughs]
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: That's a good-it's a good…yeah, it's good to me.
Jenny: Andrew has a great bunch of lines. He says, "This is why we get jetpacks and all you get is left behind." And then, you know, that's basically him admitting! Even though we all knew, of course-
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Even Jonathan. And he says, "You were out of the Trio a long time ago. In a galaxy far, far away." [Kristin laughs] Now, then he says that the reason you were out of the Trio a long, long time ago in a galaxy far, far away is because you have no respect for the chain of command. And I have to ask, I think not for the first time, why was Warren the leader of this group?
Kristin: Honestly, I think just because he was the biggest asshole. You know, like, I think he was the most evil-
Jenny: [sim] Yeah.
Kristin: And told people what to do. That was, like, sort of his vibe. And as Andrew says later, like, he likes to be told what to do. Please just tell him what to do. [Jenny laughs] And Jonathan was just kind of along for the ride and it was-like, Jonathan kind of-I think Jonathan's arc was just sort of, like, he wanted to do this thing and then it got, like, really messy and he didn't know how to get out. And he just got himself tangled in it and that's, like, his deal? So I don't think there was any reason apart from Warren sucked the most.
Jenny: Oh! And-
Kristin: [sim] He was also physically larger. [laughs]
Jenny: That's true. The tallest boy, I guess. It might behoove us to mention that the reason Andrew is looking for receivers in his body is that he's convinced himself that Warren is testing them-
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: To see if they can figure out how he's-this is very…
Kristin: It's-it's-
Jenny: Honestly? Like, sad? If you zoom out?
Kristin: It is sad. It's sad and I-again, not to spend, like, too much time on the Trio here. But like, I just…Andrew's deal with Warren, I don't think was made clear enough earlier on in the season. Like, I wish that if this were the way that they were gonna go with Andrew, that like, he is in love with Warren and he believes that Warren is coming back for him, that that had been made clear in the beginning so we could have seen that development more. Because Andrew and Jonathan were kind of just, like, these annoying little jerks wrestling in the background for most of the season. And I just wish this dynamic had gotten rooted a little more firmly. 'Cause it's…I'm like, kinda signed up-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: For Andrew in jail talking into his holes for Warren, but like, not fully.
NOTES: [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah. Andrew declares that he will find the receiver if he has to check every hole in his body. And Jonathan's. [Kristin laughs] And then they wrestle. Like two little babies.
Kristin: I love to see Tom Lenk and Danny Strong wrestle. I love it. I would sign up for watching them wrestle each other in any point in time.
Jenny: It is good.
Kristin: Anya. Oh, one more thing before Anya appears, which is that Andrew calls Jonathan "Jerkathan," and I like it.
Jenny: Mmhmm! It's good.
Kristin: Anya is like, "Finally found you two. We have to get you out of here, or you'll both be killed." I wrote that line down not because it's, like, an incredibly important line. But just because I really love Emma Caulfield's line delivery in this, like, whole episode, really. I think that her switch back over to being a vengeance demon is made really clear in super subtle ways, and she does such a good job with it. And I think, like, one of those things is that she goes into this situation thinking, [laughs] "Obviously, I can explain to the people in charge here that there is a murdering witch coming, so they will let us out. Because obviously, that makes sense." Having absolutely no understanding for the complete lack of sense that happens with, you know, like, the prison industrial complex and just generally the police and any and all of those systems. Because of course, this dude is like, "Uh, ma'am?"
Jenny: And honestly, most people in general?
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah, yeah.
Jenny: Most people in general, living in the regular, non-magic world. [laughs]
Kristin: Yeah, like, when you call your health insurance company. And you're like, okay, but clearly, A plus B equals C. And they're like, I'm sorry, but in the manual, it actually says that A plus B equals D. So even though you're-you know what I mean? It's just like, people follow the rulebook.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah, exactly. Okay, so. Anya fills Andrew and Jonathan in on the fact that Warren shot Buffy, Warren shot Tara, Buffy survived, Tara is dead. Willow…killed the holy hell out of Warren, and now is going to kill them. And Andrew's response is, "oh my god, Warren." And Jonathan's response is, "oh my god, me."
Kristin: [laughing] "Me." Yeah, it's good. The guard comes to the door and the-the door. I keep calling it the door, but I don't know what you call the-it's a door, it's just made of bars. And he comes and Anya says to him, you know, "You gotta let us out, da-da-da-da-da." And he's like, "I don't understand what you mean." [laughing] And she looks at him and she goes, "It is one of the many things you are not prepared to deal with." And his face-this is-I mean, there's a million patriarchy moments. But I'm giving the jingle to this dude's face when Anya tells him-
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: He's not prepared for something.
NOTES: [THE PATRIARCHY jingle plays] The patriarchy! [thunder clap, evil laughter]
Kristin: Oh my god, Jenny! In the next scene, a shout out to your most favorite movie of all time, Jurassic Park!
Jenny: Ohhh my god! I, too, have a Jurassic Park tag in my notes. This coffee cup, that ripple on the surface of the coffee.
Kristin: Willow is our T-rex? It was the T-rex that made the water ripple, right?
Jenny: [sim] Yes. That's correct. And here she is! And she says, "Take a nap."
Kristin: Oh my god.
Jenny: And the police officer takes a nap.
Kristin: It's my favorite, I tweeted about it right before taping this episode, because I fucking laughed forever. I, like, paused it, rewound it, recorded from my television to put it on the internet. Because…you know, a lot of accolades for "bored now," the most famous of all Dark Willow lines.
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: I'm-I am camp "take a nap." I love this. [both laugh] Somebody replied to me on Twitter-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: "Ah, yes. All of us parents wish that we too could have this power. [laughs] Over our children." [Jenny laughs] Take a nap. So this little Jurassic Park officer does indeed. He just flops right over, just boom, a nap. And then Willow begins pulling [Jenny laughs] bricks out of the side of Sunnyjail, one by one. The boys are panicking. "Tell her we didn't do anything!" And Jonathan-and Jonathan holds this line for most of this episode-says, "Yes, we did. We did do something. We signed up for this when we teamed up with Warren." Fucking bravo, Jonathan!
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Jonathan gets it, you know? Like, he fucked up but he gets that he fucked up. Andrew…[laughs] doesn't ever get it.
Jenny: We see…as the bricks continue to be ripped from the window-Buffy enter the police station with the absolute softest short-wall hop of all time. [Kristin laughs] Buffy, you're very powerful! You can-
Kristin: It's really funny, I noticed it too. [laughs]
Jenny: It was just like, bink!
Kristin: Boop!
Jenny: She's like, "I'm the Slayer!" Bink!
Kristin: Maybe she did it. Maybe it was her first time doing her own wall jump stunt.
Jenny: Maybe it was the first time. It definitely looked-
Kristin: Like her. Right?
Jenny: Yeah, it was definitely her. It was definitely Sarah. And you know, they're always making her wear very high heeled shoes. So I totally get that she wants to be safe. [laughs]
Kristin: [sim] It-no, I mean, right, but it is-
Jenny: But-
Kristin: I noticed it too. I was like, is this Season 6 or this Season 1? Like, it was a little-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: A little bloop! Meanwhile, outside, Willow is like…
NOTES: [Part of "Defying Gravity" from Wicked starts playing] So if you care to find me Look to the western sky! As someone told me lately "Everyone deserves the chance to fly!"
Kristin: She's flying, man! She flies right up to the top of the second story into the brick hole that she has made. And she sees the bent bars. [laughing] Oh my god, I can't-I'm already laughing about how this commercial break goes. I can't. [both laugh] So-so she sees the bars-
Jenny: [sim] She goes, "Buffy!" [Kristin laughs] And then she goes, "Ca-caw! [Kristin bursts out laughing] Ca-caw!"
Kristin: And the best part about the "ca-caw," to use your joke, is that we go to commercial break, and when we come back, it's still, "Ca-caw!" It's still-like, I imagine, like, the fucking commercials rolling. It's like, your ad for Progressive, your ad-and over all of the commercials, [laughing] it's just this fucking, like, wraith scream that takes us through.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: It's…it's not bad, either. Like, it's not a bad sound effect, I don't think. It's just so funny. Like, it can't not be funny.
Jenny: [sim] It's very funny. It works. You know, the shriek of a thousand harpies.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: I actually-I was just watching WWE SummerSlam.
Kristin: Mmhmm. As you do.
Jenny: The other weekend. And even though it was a PayPerView event, there were sort of, like, inset commercials, if I'm remembering correctly. I watched a bunch of wrestling on a bunch of nights. I hope-please don't write angry letters to us right now, if I'm getting AEW confused with SummerSlam. But basically, the match would continue but then an ad would take up most of the screen.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: So there were, like, regular commercial breaks or something and then also these inset ads.
Kristin: Weird.
Jenny: So it was, like, two things happening at once. I'm basically saying this because if that were the case on The WB-[laughs]
Kristin: [sim] They could have inset-
Jenny: [sim] They could have had Willow just shrieking for the full, like, two minutes of the break.
Kristin: Oh, god. Just-it got me. It really got me. [Jenny cackles] So hey, more points for Xander. Fucking zoopin' up a cop car. He's like, [brake screech noise] stole some cop wheels. How'd he even do it? Who cares? Good job, man. Good job.
Jenny: Yes. Yes. Good boy. I love that Andrew and Jonathan are getting snippy in the back [Kristin laughs] and Xander tells them that if they don't knock it off, he's gonna pull over and they can walk to their painful deaths from there. [both laugh] Very good.
Kristin: Yeah. And this is, like, you know-I like the way that we see Jonathan used in this scene. You know? Because it's like, we know that Buffy and Xander obviously have known Willow forever. But I like that it's Jonathan in the backseat who's like, "But how can this be happening? Like, I remember Willow and she packed her own lunches and she wore floods. And she was just, you know, Willow." Like, even Jonathan having a hard time reconciling what he's just witnessed and, like, what would take someone like Willow and bring them to this place.
Jenny: How lovely that just as Jonathan says, "Willow was always just Willow." That they are almost immediately rammed by a frigging mack truck and they're like, what was that?! And Xander says, "Just Willow." [Kristin laughs] Which is good.
Kristin: I wrote in my notes, "Doof Warrior" for this particular scene. I don't know,
Jenny, if you're familiar with Doof Warrior from Mad Max: Fury Road.
Jenny: I am not.
Kristin: So Doof Warrior is this-is the dude in Mad Max: Fury Road who just stands atop, like, this giant moving tank of a thing with his electric guitar. Like, that is literally his entire role in this movie, is like-
Jenny: No.
Kristin: As they're, like, fighting or chasing each other or bad things are happening, he's accompanying the fight, like, literally in the movie, on the guitar, with his-it's…he's amazing.
Jenny: Oh, no, I'm looking at him right now.
Kristin: [laughs] So I was like, Willow has some-listen, if you get my reference, great for you. And if you don't, then now you know who Doof Warrior is. Willow is giving me strong Doof Warrior vibes. [laughs] Atop this mack truck. She just needs a little guitar.
Jenny: [whispering] Alright, alright. Doof Warrior. [normal voice] Just before this part of the scene starts, I wanna just mention too that everyone's like, "If Willow wants us dead, why doesn't she just make us dead?"
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: And Buffy makes the important distinction that "she doesn't want you dead. She wants to kill you."
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: So, just something to think about.
Kristin: Yeah, I wrote that down too.
Jenny: [sim] Okay, now, are you ready for the-you know. I feel like Christmas came early. Because what a blessing that we would get to see the visual language in this show of, "I'm driving a large vehicle and oh no, I suddenly have no control." Twice in two episodes-
Kristin: [laughing] I know-
Jenny: Twice in two episodes, we see a man gripping a huge steering wheel in his large vehicle. And then finally, to really let us know that he has no control, throwing his hands up, letting go completely and making a face of horror!
Kristin: I know. It made me think, like, wow. Like, Dark Willow really has an affinity for, like, automobiles?
Jenny: She's like, I love trucks.
Kristin: She loves trucks and cars. Like, she was fucking with Xander's car. She was fucking with the bus, she was fucking with the truck.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: She loves it. She needs a little-
Jenny: She's like, "vroom-vroom."
Kristin: Tonka toy set. Are Tonka toys trucks?
Jenny: Y-yes-Tonk-yes.
Kristin: Sure.
Jenny: You say Tonka Trucks.
Kristin: Tonka Trucks. Remember those Hess trucks that they used to release, like, every Christmas?
Jenny: I literally just saw an ad for one during wrestling. [laughs]
Kristin: Wow! Apparently wrestling is marketing to me.
Jenny: [sim] And it wasn't even-it was like, no image. It was just like, Hess trucks. They're coming for the holidays. [both laugh] The model has not been finalized so we're not gonna show it to you yet, but just mark your calendars. Save the date.
Kristin: [sim] Wow, I can't-I didn't even know it was still happening. Incredible.
Jenny: Apparently.
Kristin: Well, there's a blast from the past for you. That apparently is still a blast from the current time period.
Jenny: From the now. Yeah.
Kristin: From the now. So another important thing I think in this scene, of course, is that, like, Jonathan is saying, "She knows you're in this car too, right?" And it's like, yeah. Like, this is kinda the first indication we get that Willow does not give a fuck who she's gonna harm, who she's gonna kill. She's just-like she said in the last episode, she's not coming back.
Jenny: [exhales] It's not great. It's not good. She'll do anything, except she can't because she's running out of power.
Kristin: Thank god.
Jenny: Or draining, as Jonathan calls it.
Kristin: [sim] Thank god. You know?
Jenny: She loses control of the truck. The driver very dramatically does a bunch of snakey S's and stops the truck. And the Scoobies drive off.
Kristin: [sim] I was kinda proud of the driver. I don't know if we have any truck drivers who listen, but like, is this the right move? Is this what you do when your truck's outta control? You do a little S? I don't know, it looked good.
Jenny: Oh, yeah. If you are a truck driver, please let us know if this is the real deal. Thank you.
Kristin: If you are a friendly demon who likes Doritos, you can also let us know if you agree with Clem's assertation here. Right? He does not like…nacho cheese. The texture of the nacho cheese Dorito insults Clem's tongue.
Jenny: Dude. [laughs] Uh…the detail going into this snacky taste test. We love Clem. He's so great.
Kristin: [laughs] Clem-he put a tablecloth over, like, the tomb. And like, [Jenny laughs] has, like, two big bowls that are next to each other. Like, the only thing he's missing is, like, some score cards for his taste test. It's really sweet. And he, like, acknowledge-like, he kind of realizes in the middle of this that Dawn is perhaps maybe not super into the taste test that's happening right now. I believe that Dawn would be into this taste test if there weren't larger things afoot. I think she would have been into it and been hanging with Clem. But she's basically like-you know what I like about this, is that I think that this could have been played as, like, Dawn simply tricking Clem. You know? And they don't play it like that. They play it like, she really reasons with him and she's like, "Do I look weak?" And he-sweet Clem-is like, "Hell no!" [laughs] It's, like, really nice. And so, he's a little bit manipulated by the emotions of it all. But I also think there's an element of, like-
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: He does, deep down-like, he lives in the demon world. He knows that somebody of Dawn's age and, honestly, of Dawn's abilities-
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Can and should be able to, like, participate in this journey with all of the rest of them. And so…he agrees.
Jenny: He does.
Kristin: And they are going to go-they are-well, we don't know in this scene. But they are going to go-she needs him, because he's a demon and he can sense-it's only demons who can sense where Rack's moving shop is. So.
Jenny: So they're off.
Kristin: So they're off.
Jenny: Meanwhile! [spooky voice] In a demon cave, somewhere in Africa!
Kristin: [chanting] Kiss! Kiss!
Jenny: [sim] Well, it's Spike's first shirtless trial.
Kristin: [sim] [chanting] Kiss! Kiss! Kiss! Kiss!
Jenny: It's very important for Spike to be shirtless for his trial.
Kristin: He looks good.
Jenny: And up rolls-
Kristin: Mmm. [sings tune]
Jenny: His first trial. A big slab of a hunk of a man.
Kristin: Oh my god.
Jenny: Who Spike calls a walking action figure. Kristin, are you ready to have your fucking mind blown?
Kristin: Yeah!
Jenny: Did you happen to look up who this walking action figure is portrayed by?
Kristin: No. I leave that research to the hunkologist.
Jenny: Wise move! [Kristin laughs] I think you're gonna be very pleased with the results of my research.
Kristin: Okay, tell me.
Jenny: Because this man is none other than Tanoai Reed, who is the cousin of Dwayne Johnson. And Dwayne Johnson's stunt double in many, many, many movies, including all of the installments of the Fast saga in which he appears.
Kristin: I'm hav-I moved 400 feet away from the microphone and my mouth was as wide as, like, the state of New York. Just so you know. Like, you didn't get to hear the response, but it was large and I am…I've died. I'm actually a ghost. The rest of this pod will be hosted by Ghost Kristin.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: [sim] Holy shit! That's better than anything I could have ever hoped for in my wildest dreams!
Jenny: There's also…there's also one important thing that I have to add to this.
NOTES: [laughs]
Kristin: Whew! Okay.
Jenny: I'm just gonna text it to you really quick. [laughs] [makes drum snare beat noise] While I was watching wrestling, so much last week, I saw [Kristin gasps] no fewer than three cousins of the Rock wrestle.
Kristin: Oh my god, seriously?!
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Wow. Jenny's just sent me a pic-so is this the guy?
Jenny: That's the guy. That's Tanoai Reed.
Kristin: Jenny just sent me a picture of the two of them. Their, like, bald heads are fucking touching. Dwayne's teeth are in a-like, [growls]-[clenches teeth] animal-kinda like a-can you hear what my teeth are doing?
Jenny: Big sneer.
Kristin: Like, a sneer. They both have, like, blood on the sides of their faces. And they are-and this is the most important part-both wearing skin tight black t-shirts over their fucking rippling muscles.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: I will be sure to put this image up on social media-
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: For all of you to see.
Jenny: Excellent.
Kristin: Jenny. I have to say that I think you've just gotten yourself a promotion as hunkologist. Your paygrade-
Jenny: Oh!
Kristin: Your paygrade has increased. You can add a little-
Jenny: Well.
Kristin: A little badge to your lab coat.
Jenny: Mmm! [laughs]
Kristin: You know, like, sorta like Girl Scouts add patches? [laughs]
Jenny: Yes. Of course, yeah.
Kristin: You deserve one for that shit. That was advanced level hunkology.
Jenny: Thank you very much. I knew you'd be pleased.
Kristin: I am. Spike-the response that Spike has to this man is one of the more delightful things I've ever experienced. He, like, looks at him and he goes, "Oh, here we go then." [laughs] Like, okay!
Jenny: He actually says, "Here we are now, entertain us," which is a Nirvana lyric [Kristin gasps] from Smells Like Teen Spirit.
Kristin: Oh god. I did get the entertain us, but I-
Jenny: [sim] Sorry to out you here in front of everyone, Kristin. [laughs]
Kristin: No, I-[laughs] I mean, I deserve it. Then this-
Jenny: But he says it hornily.
Kristin: This dude, like, bangs his fucking wrists together and flame erupts. And Spike gives us a-
Jenny: [sim] Pretty sick.
Kristin: Sawyerism and is like, "Son of a!" [both laugh] It's good. It's good shit, it's good shit. It's a tiny little scene, but…[sighs] it gives to us. So. Oh, no. We are in the alleyway. We get a very brief scene between Clem and Dawn to let us know that Rack is not partial to, in Clem's words, "the floppy eared." I assume this means that Rack is not a fan of demons, you know? Like, he doesn't like-
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: He doesn't like the demons of this world. And also, we learn from Clem that Rack likes little girls. Um…
Jenny: Blegh!
Kristin: This has kind of already been hinted at in the way that Rack's character has interacted even with, like, Willow in earlier episodes and things like that. But I think it's the first time that, like, anyone says it this explicitly. And yeah. Clem is sort of just like, "Do you really think you can-even if you, like, are successful in this plan, are you sure that you can stop her? Are you sure that you can stop Willow?" And I think like Buffy, Dawn-you know, Dawn and Buffy both are of the mind that, like, if they can just talk to Willow. Like, they sort of can't connect the dots here that, like, there is no talking to Willow anymore.
Jenny: Yeah…
Kristin: Shall we go to the Magic Box?
Jenny: We shall.
Kristin: Anya and Xander are kind of…at each other.
Jenny: They are. Anya reveals that she can no longer sense where Willow is, meaning that she has moved beyond vengeance to something…darker.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: [laughs] Andrew's like, "Hey, I could just summon a demon to kill her!" And everyone's like, "Sit down, Andrew."
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah. And also, no you couldn't. Like, I hate to break it to you, man. But like, this has gone beyond your capabilities anyway.
Jenny: Now, Willow has drained every book in the shop of its dark magic-
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: But don't worry! Anya has some secret anti-magic in a very, um…discreet chest. [both laugh] It's a little treasure chest with, like, a gold handprint on it. Why? I don't know.
Kristin: Hey, but thank god for it! You know? Thank god for it.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: And I actually-
Jenny: [sim] Totally. Happy it's there.
Kristin: I actually believe that Willow wouldn't have necessarily known that this was there. She was so just hellbent on grabbing those dark magic books. I don't think she really gave a fuck about, like, this one other-
Jenny: Slug candles, et cetera.
Kristin: Yeah. It just doesn't seem like in the state that she was in and is in, she would care about, like, perhaps missing one book. So I agree. It's not very discreet, but I also-I'm just not sure it has to be. For this scenario.
Jenny: Yeah. Unfortunately, the spell is in ancient Sumarian, she thinks. And Jonathan's like, "Oh, could I take a look at it?" And Buffy's like, "Sit down, Jonathan."
Kristin: Yeah, and Jonathan's like…
NOTES: [Clip from episode plays]
Jonathan: I just thought, you know, as long as you're protecting us, the least I can do is-
Buffy: I'm not protecting you, Jonathan. None of us are. We're doing this for Willow. The only reason it happens to be your lucky day is because Willow kills you, she crosses a line, I lose a friend.
Jenny: Um, interesting, because I feel like in the previous episode, you know, everyone was trying to stop Willow from crossing the line of killing Warren. And like, that was the line that Willow couldn't cross, but now the line has just been moved down the field. Because why? Because Warren killed Tara and so it's more understandable? Because Warren was, like, very evidently a real piece of shit?
NOTES: [laughs]
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And Andrew and Jonathan are, like, less of a piece of a shit? [laughs]
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: It's a little…
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Wiggly-
Kristin: I agree, I agree. I had the same feeling about, like, wasn't the line over there before? Like, we've just moved-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Like, okay, well, she did that thing. So now the line is just a couple paces this way. [laughs]
Jenny: This is like, good thing Kathy Bates from Misery isn't watching this, because she really doesn't like when you change the rules halfway through. You know what I mean? [both laugh]
Kristin: What a great reference, Jenny. [laughs]
Jenny: Do you recall when she was, like, talking about going to see movies as a kid, where there would be a cliffhanger? And, like, a car would go off a cliff but then when you would get the second installment, you would see the star, like, roll out of the door at the last possible second, but that hadn't happened in the prev-and she's all, like, telling…fucking…
Kristin: The dude she has tied up.
Jenny: [sim] Her little author prisoner-
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah.
Jenny: That, you know, he better not try and fool her!
Kristin: [laughs] I don't remember it, but I-
Jenny: She would hate this season of Buffy! [both laugh]
Kristin: You better all watch your kneecaps.
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah.
Kristin: The writers' room of Buffy, watch your caps.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: [laughs] So Xander, again, making a pretty decent point here, is like, thinking just a step ahead, and is like, "So, okay. We stop Willow from, like, doing this particular magic. Then what the fuck? Like, what do you think is going to happen here? What are we going to do?" I'd like to take a beat and say that Buffy takes her little hat off and her hair still looks great! She is having a great end of-
Jenny: [sim] It does look great.
Kristin: Season 6 hair. Just fantastic hair.
Jenny: It's true. Buffy says, "I'll talk to her."
Kristin: Buddy.
Jenny: Buffy, no! [laughs]
Kristin: Yeah. That's not gonna work, pal. That's not gonna work, my friend.
Jenny: Buffy, no!
Kristin: If anyone should know, it should be Buffy.
Jenny: [sim] I can't wait till we get to the part of the episode where we can talk about it. [laughs] Like, honey you are not the salesman for this product.
Kristin: [laughs] So. We end this scene with a clear transition back to Rack's, because-Jonathan, the, like, expert in magic draining. He's, like, constantly the one in this episode to be like, [Jenny laughs] "Excuse me, but her magic is draining. Excuse me, but if her magic is drained, she must be recharging it somewhere." [Jenny laughs] They're all, like, fairly basic concepts but we're relying on Jonathan's intel as the one with experience in magic. [laughs]
Jenny: Is this episode, like, extra funny, or is it just-does it just feel extra funny because the last few episodes have been so difficult?
Kristin: Yeah, I think there's part of that here. 'Cause it is-we do get to, like, have fun, even though a lot of bad things happen. [laughs] So anyway. She's recharging herself, and of course, where's she gonna do that but with our BFF, Jeff Kober. Just-just fucking land-sticking the landing on this first line. "Hey, babe." [laughs] I can't!
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: He's unbelievable.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: He's unbelievable. He is such-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: A fucking incredible actor.
Jenny: He's so-he's so great. His body language-like, all this stuff at the beginning of the scene, I feel like is just-he's fucking-he's just ten out of ten. He's just, like-his voice and his body are, like, working overtime. He's doing so great. He says some truly-
Kristin: Ugh, yeah.
Jenny: Wretched things to Willow, including something about her being "ripe." In case anybody wanted a reason to puke right now.
Kristin: To throw up? Yeah. You can pull a Xander and throw up in the woods for that one.
Jenny: And-yeah. [laughs] This podcast has time for you to throw up [Kristin laughs] as many times as you need.
Kristin: You can just hit pause. [laughs]
Jenny: And the one thing I wanna say about this that I think is-makes it work not as well for me at the very end here, is Jeff Kober is a very tall man. And Alyson Hannigan is, like, an average-to-small woman. And when he crouches down-
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: So that he can be eye-level with her, and then he puts his enormous hands, which are the-one hand is the size of Alyson Hannigan's head.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: There's something very, like, crunched and unnatural-feel-like, it takes you out of, like, oh, this guy just is a natural creep. Like, his essence is just like, blegh!
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: And into this, like, oh, somebody's trying to fit their body, like, into a screen right now.
Kristin: Right. Right, right, right.
Jenny: I don't know. That, like, really stuck out to me. The-like, each time I watched it. The end.
Kristin: Yeah. And then…and then we see a scene we saw once before, where Rack was, quote, "taking a little tour" of Willow. And Willow turns the fucking tables on this evil-ass motherfucker. And he is no longer an evil-ass motherfucker, because, um…you know, Willow kills him. She takes such a tour-such a tour that-
Jenny: [laughs] Such a tour!
Kristin: She hangs him up by his little toes from the rafters. And-
Jenny: Yeah. Yep.
Kristin: Rack's dead. And I guess this is okay, because Rack is evil and also not human? I guess? I don't know.
Jenny: Oh, yeah-like, is Rack human?
Kristin: [sim] Is Rack-? Who knows?
Jenny: [sim] I mean, he's a bit of a wizard. [Kristin laughs] He's a bit of a warlock. He's a bit of this and a bit of that, and he's a bit of a creep. But isn't he kinda human also? I don't know, just a lot of, like, moral little fucking…stars, hearts, moons, clovers and balloons being drawn in the sand here. [both laugh]
Kristin: For those who do not know, Jenny just listed all of the marshmallows in Lucky Charms. So…[both laugh] Like, I know some of you screamed 'cause you knew, but I needed-
Jenny: [sim] I'm. Having. Fun.
Kristin: [laughing] I needed those of you who didn't know to know. 'Cause that was-
Jenny: Also, who knows what shape marshmallows they're putting in Lucky Charms now? They're probably like, Tiktok marshmallow. [Kristin laughs] IPhone marshmallow. Middle part marshmallow. [both laugh] Anyway.
Kristin: Anyway. So-
Jenny: Dawn and Clem find the waiting room. Dawn's like, "I'm going in." Clem's like, "Hey, I should probably just stay here. And just make sure the waiting room is okay." Worst babysitter of all time.
Kristin: Literally, this is an error on Clem's part. Like, I-
Jenny: Clem.
Kristin: Dude. I know you're afraid, man, but-
Jenny: [sim] You were doing so well, until you left the crypt.
Kristin: [laughs] You should have at least gone in there with her.
Jenny: Rack is, as you mentioned, suspended in the air upside down and also dead. Dawn discovers him and screams. And then, here's Willow, restored to her unholy black-eyed glory, saying, "Hey, cutie." And then-
Kristin: She now has veins. She now has the trademark Dark Willow veins.
Jenny: She got the veins.
Kristin: She got those from Rack. [laughs]
Jenny: She got 'em. And Dawn says, "Did you kill that guy?" and [laughs] Willow says, "It's an improvement, believe me," which-[cackles]
Kristin: She's not wrong.
Jenny: She's not wrong.
Kristin: She's not wrong. Then Dawn: "You look terrible." Listen. Listen, Dawn. [Jenny laughs] Let me tell you who you shouldn't say that to.
Jenny: [sim] Don't say that to…[both laugh]
Kristin: Read the room, Dawn!
Jenny: Eeeee. Read the room. She's very powerful right now, Dawn. [laughs]
Kristin: She's like-Dawn's like, "You're on the magic again." And Dark Willow is,
NOTES: [dramatically] "I am the magic!" [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Okay!
Jenny: That's exactly what she's like.
Kristin: Alright.
Jenny: She tells Dawn, "You don't have to talk. You can just think really loud and I'll be able to hear it." [laughing] Terrifying.
Kristin: Yeah, creepy! Fucking creepy. And then, Dawn-[Jenny snorts] Dawn is just making every misstep. "I miss Tara too."
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Dawn! The woman has fucking black hair and black eyes and veins on her fucking face. Don't bring up her dead girlfriend!
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: For fuck's sake! [laughs]
Jenny: Don't do it. Simply…don't do it. And then, Willow starts in on this, like, "Oh, yeah, well, you used to be a mystic ball of energy and maybe you're crying all the time because you should be a mystic ball of energy again. And I'll change you back and we'll all be a lot happier if we don't have to listen to you whine-"
NOTES: [Clip from episode plays]
Dark Willow: [mockingly] "Mom. Buffy. Tara. Wahh!"
Jenny: It's-[laughs] she gets her Eric Cartman, "Mam!" voice going pretty good. [both laugh] Backing Dawn into the corner. But before she can-before she can revert Dawn to her mystic ball of energy state, who should fucking bust in the door, but Buffy. Now, how did Buffy find Rack's and also, did she bump into Clem in the waiting room, [Kristin laughs] like, "What the fuck, Clem?" or not?
Kristin: These questions we will never get answers to.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: But she says, "I think you need to get away from her."
NOTES: [AD BREAK]
Jenny: Well! Anya's not doing so great on the ancient Sumarian translation. And there's a perfectly good explanation for that, courtesy of Jonathan. He believes that the spell's actually in Babylonian! The text is similar, but the dialect is completely different. As everyone knows.
Kristin: As everyone knows. I took a photo of my television in the beginning of this scene, because Anya's eye roll as Xander hovers above her is simply a mood. [both laugh] She's like, "You're too close!" [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: Yeah, and Andrew is sort of like, "We gotta get out of here. You know that, like, even if they save us from Willow, like, we're still in deep shit. We can be the Duo. I'll take orders, I like taking orders." Interesting, Andrew.
Jenny: Boi-oi-oi-oi-oing!
Kristin: [laughs] Andrew's like, "I am a bottom and you may top me. I know-Warren's gone now. So I need a new top in my life."
Jenny: Mmhmm. Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: Jonathan's response to this is, "Grow up." Jonathan really has a good episode, all things considered.
Jenny: Yes. Good boy, Jonathan.
Kristin: Yeah, and then Andrew says, "Willow-" To Anya and Xander, like, "Hey. You know, after she's done with us, she's just gonna come after you." And Anya says, "The annoying virgin has a point." [both laugh] Ten out of ten.
Jenny: He also refers to Willow as Darth Rosenberg. [Kristin laughs] Which is good.
Kristin: That is very good.
Jenny: Xander, just laboring under the delusion that Willow would never hurt him. She could have killed him when she was doing the ol' truck-ram.
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah. Nobody in the Scooby gang wants to believe that one of their fellow Scoobies can cause another Scooby harm. But unfortunately, that is the truth here. And Anya and Xander-you know, Anya gets it.
Jenny: Anya's like, "She doesn't care if you live or die." And Xander…Xander.
Kristin: This is rough.
Jenny: Xander says, "Guess you guys finally have something in common." Now, Xander? Now? Right now?
Kristin: This is what I'm talking about. Anya-like, thank you, Anya, for saying my inner monologue. Because basically, this starts off this back and forth between them. And Anya's like, "I care if you live or die. I just don't know which I want yet." She reveals-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: To Xander that she can't hurt Xander. And Xander's like, "Oh, so sleeping with Spike on the Magic Box table was, like, not blah-blah-blah?" And she's like, "Yeah, it wasn't vengeance. That was solace."
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And Xander is still fucking piss-babying around. And she says what I feel in my soul, "You don't get to play the martyr. You motherfucker."
Jenny: [sim] Correct.
Kristin: She doesn't say that part, but she feels it.
Jenny: [sighs] Yeah.
Kristin: And he just keeps doing it! "You're right. I saw the gun and I froze and I know that it's my fault." And she's like, "Well, I meant us," but like, also, just fucking stop it, man! Just stop it. This shit-in life, this shit drives me fucking bananas. When somebody takes up all this room saying how they don't take up any room. You're doing it! You're actively doing it, right now. You're taking up the room.
NOTES: [laughs]
Jenny: Sir. Sir!
Kristin: I have no space for this man. [laughs]
Jenny: Well! Meanwhile.
Kristin: Meanwhile, at Rack's.
Jenny: [sim] Back at Rack's place. Buffy is doing her very cool plan of talking to Willow, with absolutely no results.
Kristin: I have to say, I am Team Dark Willow on this-on this exchange, the point goes to Dark Willow. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah. Buffy-ohh, Buffy. You…absolute fucking carrot cake. [Kristin laughs] Buffy tries to tell Willow that life is worth living, and Dark Willow is very reasonably like, "Bitch, you hate it here just as much as I do!"
Kristin: Uh-huh.
Jenny: And Willow is like, "Did you happen to see the Previouslys on this episode? [Kristin laughs] You've been up to some dark shit this season, girl!"
Kristin: [sim] She's like, "You have spent this whole season telling me that there is not a reason that you would like to be back here, that you are happier when you were fucking dead, so don't even!"
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: That's why Willow-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Dark Willow gets the point. She gets the point. [laughs]
Jenny: She gets the point. Now, while they're having this exchange, the camera is circling them and the out-of-focus background gradually changes from Rack's place to the Magic Box. And I think this is so…great.
Kristin: It is.
Jenny: She's just teleported all of them, without even, like, making a thing out of it. [laughs]
Kristin: It's really cool. It's done really well, and honestly, like, if you don't know it's gonna happen, you also kind of don't even realize it's happening until it's happened.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: It's done wonderfully. I noted it-[laughs] I noted it, in my notes, I drew a little, like, snail spiral. And then next to it, it says, "Magic Box." That's how I remember that that happens. [both laugh] The first thing that Willow says to Jonathan and Andrew is, "You boys like magic, don't you? Abra-kadabra!" Slam!
Jenny: [makes electricity noise] Great. Luckily. Anya's little protection spell is working, so Willow's just, like, zappin' and zappin'.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: To no avail. Then the boys take some swords off the wall. And Willow says that she is just getting the wood for the violence here. And I wish that she hadn't.
Kristin: I wish that she-mmm. I kind of wish that she hadn't, but the fact that Dark Willow is saying that she has a boner for violence is, like, you know. Like, it-yeah, I'll take it.
Jenny: There's something.
Kristin: There's something there.
Jenny: It's-yeah.
Kristin: Speaking of boners, we go to the cave. And ol' Spike! [both laugh] Snaps the neck of his boyfriend.
Jenny: [sim] Spike, burnt. Sweaty. Worn out.
Kristin: Mmhmm. He's all like-he uses his palm over the burning fist of his boyfriend.
Jenny: Immolation watch! How is he not immediately aflame and dead?
Kristin: Well, because the rules of fire are simply non-consistent in this universe.
NOTES: [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah. He grabs a flaming fist. He catches a lucky break. And he snaps the incredibly thick neck of…this action figure.
Kristin: Yes. And then he learns that-LOL, says the demon.
Jenny: [sim] And then, fucking drama demon is like, [Kristin laughing] "Yes! You have passed! Dot dot dot. The first stage of the test!" Clacking his little manicure together. Fuck! [laughs]
Kristin: [sim]I fucking love this demon. I love him. I-he's one of my favorite demons.
Jenny: [sim] Yeah, I wish he was in every season. [laughs]
Kristin: Yeah. He's a good time.
Jenny: And Spike's like, "Bugger."
Kristin: [laughs] Back at the Magic Box, Willow's like, "That is an effective counterspell." Buffy says-Dark Willow, I'm sorry, she's a delight. Buffy's like-
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: "Back off before somebody gets hurt." She goes, "How 'bout I back up right after?" [laughs]
Jenny: It's good.
Kristin: It's good!
Jenny: It's good. Then Willow does a little, hey. Sometimes you wanna do magic on other people. Sometimes you wanna do a little magic on yourself. She makes herself incredibly strong so that she can beat Jonathan and Andrew to death.
Kristin: Smart move. It's a smart move. And then, Buffy says, "I don't wanna hurt you." And Willow punches her in the face so hard that she flies entirely across the room and slams into the bookcase. This is when I would like to say that I think things get a little sexy. Buffy's wearing a leather belt-
Jenny: [sim] Go on! Ohh!
Kristin: Dark Willow is like, oh shit, I've been waiting for this moment my whole life.
Jenny: Mm! Mmhmm!
Kristin: Buffy stands up and is like, "I just said that I didn't wanna hurt you. I didn't say that I wouldn't hurt you."
Jenny: Their brawl continues. Xander, Dawn, Andrew and Jonathan run away. And Xander's like, "Anya!" And Anya's like, "I have to stay right here to keep the spell going." Which seems like, why? Isn't the spell on, like, the boys? Couldn't you just go with them and keep doing the spell?
Kristin: Well, but it-I think that-like, what that leads me to believe is that the spell is not protecting the boys. The spell is dampening Willow's ability to use magic against other people.
Jenny: Ohhh!
Kristin: 'Cause I thought the same thing. But, like-
Jenny: Uh-huh, uh-huh.
Kristin: She's not able to-she's not using magic on Buffy either. She's using her fists on Buffy. So, like-
Jenny: Right, right, right.
Kristin: I think that-yeah, I think that the spell-I mean, 'cause she says that the book is an anti-magic book or something like that. Like, it-
Jenny: Right. Right, right, right, right.
Kristin: It lessens your ability.
Jenny: So Anya says-
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: "Go! Xander. Do something right." Do something right, Xander!
Kristin: Do something right, Xander.
Jenny: She says.
Kristin: Meanwhile, back in Witch v. Slayer, uh, 2002-
Jenny: We get these big zooms!
Kristin: Oh my-
Jenny: To let us know that it's a real serious-it's the main event.
Kristin: It's the main event.
NOTES: [Clip from episode plays]
Dark Willow: Come on. This is a huge deal for me. Six years as a side man, now I get to be the Slayer.
Buffy: A killer isn't a Slayer. Being the Slayer means something you can't conceive of.
Dark Willow: Oh, Buffy. You really need to have every square inch of your ass kicked.
Jenny: Well! They fight. Alexa, play Break Stuff by Limp Bizkit!
NOTES: [Break Stuff by Limp Bizkit starts to play]
Jenny: [sings along with the song] "It's just one of those days!" [Kristin laughs] Hell yeah!
NOTES: [song ends]
Kristin: I just watched Thor: Ragnarok. And there's-
Jenny: Mmm!
Kristin: A moment at the end of Thor: Ragnarok when Thor comes sort of, like, bolting out of the sky with lightning behind him. And it's the song that's like, "Ahhhh!" You know that one? Mmhmm.
Jenny: Yep, yep.
Kristin: So Alexa, play "Ahhhhh!" [laughs]
Jenny: That is Immigrant Song by Led Zeppelin.
Kristin: Ahh. So Alexa, play Immigrant Song by Led Zeppelin. [Immigrant Song by Led Zeppelin starts to play] Ahhhhh! Ahhhhh! [Jenny laughs]
Kristin: I don't know how we decided that today was the day we were gonna prank all of your home robots. Hey, Google!
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Play Jenny Owen Youngs. [laughs]
Jenny: Wow! That's a good idea, for me, actually! [both laugh]
Kristin: Okay. So. The girls are a'fightin'. The boys are a'runnin', with Dawn. And basically Andrew is like, "We gotta get outta here. We should go to Mexico." Andrew pulls a sword on Xander. Jonathan pulls a sword on Andrew. [laughs] Oh my god. Jenny!
Jenny: Little bit of a-what?
Kristin: My google is playing Jenny Owen Youngs. [both laugh]
Jenny: Terrif-literally? Terrifying.
Kristin: [at a distance] Hey, Google! Stop.
Jenny: Okay!
Kristin: Well, that shit's funny.
Jenny: Okay. Google has shut down.
Kristin: Ahh.
Jenny: Whew!
Kristin: What were we talking about?
Jenny: Andrew has Xander at swordpoint. Jonathan gets Andrew at swordpoint.
Kristin: Yeah, this is, like, you know-I mean, everyone, get it together. Just like, figure out how to get away from Willow. That's your only job. You've left Buffy to try to do something with Willow, and y'all are arguing in the alleyway? Come on now. Willow has knocked Buffy out temporarily. Then she sees Anya and realizes that Anya's been the one, you know, fucking keeping her at bay. She says, "It looks like I've been beating on the wrong girl," and fucking knocks Anya to the ground. Buffy gets back up. [singing] She got knocked down, but she got up again! [both laugh] And Willow is like, "You're right, Buffy. The Slayer thing isn't about the violence. It's about the power." And then she fucking tosses Buffy across the room again.
Jenny: Oh, dear. So!
Kristin: So.
Jenny: They fight, they fight, they fight, they fight. Willow, getting hi-hi-high on her own supply, says, "There's no one in the world that has the power to stop me." But then there's a big zap from none other than mad Dad! Who says, "I'd like! To test! That theory!"
Kristin: Sir, I would like for you to test any theory you would like upon me!
Jenny: Mm!
Kristin: This is the hottest Giles has ever looked! Ever! [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah-[exhales] Giles looks…healthy.
Kristin: I was-
Jenny: He looks…good.
Kristin: I was so, like, overwhelmed with feeling when I watched this the first timethat I texted Jenny furiously: we must-we must give Giles a rewrite for his jingle. Here's my idea. And sent her all of the lyrics in one fell swoop. [laughs] So-
Jenny: Mmhmm!
Kristin: Without further ado, please let us hear the jingle for what I like to call, Mad Dad. [MAD DAD jingle plays] Giles! Dad's mad! The witch has told him you did real bad So pissed that he took off his glasses You better watch what you say! Dad is mad!
Jenny: [clapping with each word] And that is the fucking end of the episode. [stops clapping] What do you think?
Kristin: Daddy is home, motherfuckers!
Jenny: Daddy's home.
Kristin: Ding-dong!
Jenny: He's not pleased.
Kristin: Whew! He's not. He's pissed! He's so pissed he's not even wearing his fucking glasses! I'm telling you!
Jenny: Ohh my god.
Kristin: This man is full of rage. And I didn't want Giles to be gone this season. I will tell you that-you know that we've been very disappointed in him. But I am almost willing to forgive it all for this return. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah. It's a good return.
Kristin: This is good shit. Now that I'm all worked up, I suppose there's only one place we can go, Jenny.
Jenny: [long gasp] [SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays] Sexual tension award!
Jenny: Well! Welcome back to yet another installment of our favorite segment, the Sexual Tension Awards. Now, listen. It's been a while since we had anything worth talking about in this segment, because we've been too sad. But this episode bears a bounty, a beautiful harvest for us to enjoy. So many slots, so many noms. Here they are. In slot number one, we've got two noms for the price of one slot. [Kristin laughs] And-[clears throat] speaking of slots, it's Jonathan and Andrew, checking every hole in everybody's body. [Kristin laughs] In slot number two, who's got two thumbs and can't get enough hot, oiled, shirtless men fighting each other? This guy! [Kristin laughs] Give it up for Spike and Tanoai Reed. [cackles] Yes! Fighting in a demon cave! You know what demon caves are good for, fighting and fucking. In slot number three. Kristin's pick. [chanting] Kristin's pick! Kristin's pick!
Kristin: [makes siren sound]
Jenny: It's Dark Willow and Buffy the vampire Slayer, locked in mortal combat.
Kristin: Yeah, she needs to-
Jenny: Two will enter, only one will leave! Whomst will it be?
Kristin: Just don't-don't put a Slayer in a leather belt and put a witch in a fucking veiny face and make 'em fight. It's too much for me to hold!
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Too much for me to handle.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: Too hot to handle.
Jenny: And in slot number four, we all knew this day would come eventually. We've all been very, very bad and we must be punished. It's Giles and all of us!
Kristin: Mmhmm!
Jenny: If. You. Would. Like. For your voice to be heard in our beautiful democracy, please cast your vote in our Twitter poll, which will be up for one week from now. Go, go, @Bufferingcast.
Kristin: [sim] As long as I don't fuck it up. [laughs]
Jenny: Hurry. As long as Kristin doesn't fuck it up. [Kristin laughs] [SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays] Sexual tension award!
Kristin: Well, we've only got one left and unlike the television show which we are recapping, we are not giving you two episodes at the same time. But you only have to wait one week, instead of two.
Jenny: Oh! What a treat.
Kristin: For the next episode. So that's-basically, that's the same day for us. [Jenny laughs] And then we'll have reached the end of the fucking season, Jenny.
Jenny: And then we'll take a nice, long, luxurious…vacation-
Kristin: [sim] Jenny and I will look at each other-
Jenny: Never to be heard from again!
Kristin: [laughs] Jenny and I will look at each other through the Zoom screen and both say, "Take a nap," and then both pass out. [laughs]
Jenny: Yes. Nice.
Kristin: Alright, well, apparently my robot in the other room, who I will not name, knows who you are, Jenny. But do you wanna tell everyone else?
Jenny: I do. I'm Jenny Owen Youngs! And when I'm not making this podcast, I am often writing and recording songs. You can find my music by searching my name on your favorite digital music platform. You can give me a shout on Twitter @JennyOwenYoungs. You can join me for livestreams on Twitch, on a weekly basis, free to all. Most Mondays and Wednesdays. In fact, I'm doing one this very night. And also, next Monday and next Wednesday, so check the schedule at twitch.tv/jennyowenyoungs. And come by. I saw a bunch of Buffering folk on my last stream, it was very fun.
Kristin: Awesome.
Jenny: And hey, also, I'm in a band called L.A. Exes and our debut album Get Some is also out now on all digital platforms.
Kristin: Hell yeah! [singing] "Temporary goodbye!" [Jenny laughs] My name is Kristin Russo. Excellent at remembering tunes and when I am not recapping shows like Buffy the Vampire Slayer with Jenny Owen Youngs, I do a lot of work with queer community. I do talks for workplaces and also, this is just your reminder that I donate talks to GSAs. I know that school is back in session for so many of you and for so many of your kids. So if your kids or yourself are involved in the GSA at your school or the queer organization at your school, or if you run library events, anything like that, just go to my website. It's kristinnoeline.com. You can find out more about either how to book me at your workplace or how to get me to donate a talk. It's just me, hanging out with you guys, for fun. And that's what my little personal Patreon supports, so it's great. And, um…what else? What else about me? I do a podcast with Joanna Robinson called Feels Like the First Time. And we just finished watching Marvel, as of this recording. I don't even know what we're doing in October, but you can listen-we've got, like, 18 back episodes of shit I haven't watched. You hear me referencing Doof Warrior? Got that knowledge from Feels Like the First Time over here, so.
Jenny: Yep. Yep. Yep.
Kristin: Anyway, who are we?
Jenny: We, of course, are Buffering the Vampire Slayer. We're on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram, @BufferingCast. Or you can drop us an email at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin: You can support what we do here on Patreon. It is a great way to get really fun things. We have just announced all of the things we'll be doing on that break where we're allegedly napping. Of course, we're not totally napping. [Jenny laughs] We're gonna be doing some fun things on Patreon. You can find out all of that information, bufferingthevampireslayer.com, just click on Patreon. You can also, of course, always rate and review us. And we have…really great merch. You know, I know you're not supposed to say nice things about yourself all the time. [Jenny laughs] But like, our merch rules. So-and also the vinyl-Once More with Once More with Feeling, the vinyl has arrived. The actual, actual vinyl is here.
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: And you can touch it with your hands!
Jenny: [singsong] Yes!
Kristin: So if you didn't get one when we did the pre-order, you can get one now. All that, bufferingthevampireslayer.com.
Jenny: And till next time…
Both: Awwwoooooooooooo!
Kristin: [whispers] Take a nap. [Jenny Owen Youngs performing "Two to Go" off the album "Songs from Season Six" by Buffering the Vampire Slayer]