Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 3.06: Band Candy
Jenny: Oh hey, everybody!
Kristin: Hi!
Jenny: Before we get started today, we have just a few things to tell you about.
Kristin: Yes, we want to remind you, this is our last episode in the month of October. Going out with a bang for the month of October here. And, with that said, you know that we are selling lyric sheets, handwritten lyric sheets. We typically are doing five per month, a limit of five per month, and that $500 worth of proceeds- they cost a hundred dollars a pop- goes to a specific organization. Well, we're selling ten this month, and the reason for that is because October is domestic violence awareness month, and, with the inclusion of "Beauty and the Beasts," and our discussion around domestic violence, we thought it would be incredible to donate $500 to the NW Network of Bi, Trans, Lesbian, and Gay Survivors of Abuse in Seattle. However, then, we saw devastation happen in Puerto Rico, and so we've added an additional five. We still have a few left, and this is our last chance to tell you about them. They will be up through the end of October. The proceeds will be split between the NW Network and Hispanic Federation, which is doing incredible, incredible work on the ground in Puerto Rico, and we know that they need all the help that they can get over there. So, go on over to bufferingthevampireslayer.com, just click on "Shop," and you will see the lyric sheets there. We will handwrite the lyrics to any of our Buffering songs or a segment, if you just want a piece of them. You can let us know all of that and more over on the website, and thank you so much for your support.
Jenny: And hey, if you're in the Bay Area, I, your friend, Jenny Owen Youngs, will be performing musical songs that I have composed about my feelings at a concert in your area at the Swedish American Hall, opening up for Dan Wilson on Saturday, October 21st. That's this Saturday! Come hang out with me at Swedish American Hall. You can find ticket links and show info at jennyowenyoungs.com.
Kristin: It's true. Oh my gosh, Sam just came over and curled up right next to me, so I'm having a great time! The other thing that I wanna tell you all about is our Patreon page. So many of you know about it, so many of you are part of the secret Facebook group and get the advance mp3s of the songs and all that good stuff. We just wanted to thank you all so much for the support that you've given to us. When you get to the end of this episode, you're gonna hear a song- we're pretty excited about this song- that song was made using a new piece of equipment that your support helped us to get. Your support is helping us make this podcast grow and grow and grow and grow. Hell, we have Kristin Sutherland in this episode! I mean, that didn't really come from funding, but it came from belief in us and support in us, so thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you. If you don't know about our Patreon page, you can find that also on our website, just click on the "Patreon" link and you'll find out all the really fun perks that you can get, as well as all the amazing things that you're supporting when you pledge.
Jenny: Just a head's up, we'll be back on November 1st with our live episode from NerdMelt, in which we discuss "Revelations." If you'd like to look at our full calendar so you can keep up on your viewing and know when we're airing which episodes, you can see that at bufferingthevampireslayer.com. Just click on "Calendar." And, gosh, I think that's enough talking, let's get to the other talking.
NOTES: [THEME SONG]
Jenny: Hello! And welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast where we are watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer one at a time. I am Jenny Owen Youngs!
Kristin: And I am Kristin Russo, and this week, we are discussing the episode you've all been waiting for, Season 3, Episode 6, "Band Candy"! Who's in the room with us?
Jenny: It's Kate Leth!
Kristin: Kate Leth is here!
Kate: Oh, it's me! [laughter] Once again, I return.
Kristin: Kate is here!
Kate: Hi!
Jenny: Thank God you're back. Just in time.
Kristin: Before we just lose our minds about this episode, let's continue our script. Stay tuned at the end of this podcast every week for an original song written by us recapping the Buffy episode we are discussing.
Jenny: "Band Candy" was written by the delicate pen of Jane Espenson and directed by Michael Lang, and it originally aired on November 10th, 1998!
Kristin: Wow, we're getting kind of close in our month and month thing here.
Jenny: Oh yeah, we're kind of lining up almost-
Kristin: We're mid-October, mid-November-
Jenny: Catching up on 'em.
Kristin: IMDB tells us that this is the one where adults throughout Sunnydale behave like immature teenagers after they eat cursed candy.
Jenny: This is also the one where Joyce and Giles have sex.
Kristin: Wow! Wow. We don't know that.
Jenny: They- I- their eyes said- things.
Kristin: Yeah, they had sex.
Kate: Listen, I know.
Kristin: You know? [laughter]
Jenny: Kate definitely knows!
Kate: I know.
Jenny: Let's talk about the process of watching this episode with Kate Leth-
Kate: Please.
Jenny: And then having to take out the garden hose and put her on the lawn-
Kristin: Yeah! [laughs]
Kate: Which would be so great if she wasn't also into that?
Kristin: Right! I know, it's like, nothing we did could calm Kate down!
NOTES: [laughter]
Kate: People say that about me all the time.
Kristin: Right! You've been really waiting for this episode, Kate.
Kate: I've been so excited, and I reserved this so wholeheartedly and so enthusiastically, when you're like, "What do you want in Season 3?" and I was like, okay, here are my options, but, "Band Candy," because it left such a deep impression on me as a youth and as an adult, and it is in my top five episodes of this entire show for sure.
Kristin: I get it.
Kate: Yeah.
Kristin: It's such a good episode.
Kate: It's so good!
Kristin: Shall we just dive into the beginning?
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: So, we're talking about SATs.
Jenny: You know when you're at the cemetery prepping for SATs?
Kristin: You know, I prepped in a lot of places for the SATs. In the cemetery wasn't one of them.
Kate: This was definitely a thing that was foreign to me as a youth, because Canada does not have SATs. The only reason you would take them is if you were planning to go to an American school, so we did not have SATs, we just had final exams in high school.
Jenny: Oh, interesting. Wow.
Kristin: So you didn't understand what was happening?
Kate: I had a vague notion of what SATs were just from American pop culture, and I knew that there was a lot of like, if/then questions. [laughter]
Kristin: Right! A lot of definitions.
Kate: Yeah, a lot of playing the multiple choice game. I definitely was already accepted to art school when I did my final exams in high school, and, for my math exam, wherein I passed with a 53 out of 100, the barely passing grade-
Kristin: That's passing?
Kate: Yes. Canada is lenient.
Kristin: [laughing] Yeah, I'm like, that's not passing here.
Kate: At least my school was. But I was already accepted to college, so what could they do? For my final question, which was supposed to be very, very elaborate, something involving parabolas or something, I'm sure, I drew a picture of me riding a shark all the way to art school.
Kristin: Oh. My. God!
Jenny: That rules!
Kate: So that's my closest experience to Buffy's.
Kristin: I'll tell you what, that's my favorite story I've ever heard about a parabola.
Kate: We're only getting started! [laughter]
Kristin: So, right, they're prepping in the cemetery, and then we go to the mayor. How do you feel about the mayor, Kate?
Kate: You know, I came around to the mayor. He was not one of my favorite villains on the initial run, but I think he's definitely up there now. I like him a lot. I think his sort of tidy evil is a very good brand.
Kristin: Right? His hand sanitizer brand of evil.
Kate: It's so good, and I'm also a really big fan of Mr. Trick, who you will know is one of the sole male inclusions in Fashion Watch, because Mr. Trick, like, looks pretty good. And- his suits could be a little more tailored. He's definitely a shorter guy wearing suits made for a taller guy, or at least that's, you know, my novice interpretation-
Kristin: [laughs] I don't know if you can call yourself a novice at this point.
Kate: I have learned so much about fashion working on this podcast! [laughter] But I love Mr. Trick and I love the mayor, and their duality is very good.
Kristin: Right? And their duality comes alive in this scene where, you know, Trick is like, "Uh, I know a beast who knows a guy," and the mayor's like, "I guess we could subcontract out for this job." Like, oh, I see what's going down here!
Kate: Yeah, he has a really good thing in this episode where he wears- I mean, he's always wearing silk shirts, or that sort of like shiny, like, sateen cotton almost look, you know what I mean? Where it's like a little bit shiny? I don't know men's fabrics as well, my apologies [laughter] but that are always with like a matching, slightly darker-hued tie-
Kristin: Yeah!
Kate: And the black suits. So he has- the earlier part of the episode, he's got a green scheme going on, then later, it's like lavender and purple, which is very good.
Kristin: Wow, Kate Leth.
Kate: I pay attention!
Kristin: Having you here for the entirety of an episode, I feel like we're gonna learn so many things about the nuanced fashion.
Jenny: This is also the first time we see inside of the mayor's cabinet?
Kristin: Yeah! Not files, there's no files in there.
Kate: It looks very similar to the background where you go through the Forbidden Journey ride at Universal Studios- onto the Harry Potter-
Kristin: Oh, spoiler alert! [laughter]
Kate: If you go on the Harry Potter ride, once you get to the Defense Against the Dark Arts classroom, it looks very similar to the mayor's closet.
Kristin: It is very like, the shrunken heads in jars vibe.
Kate: It's so silly. Yeah.
Kristin: But it's the first time that we really- 'cause we were talking about this when this happened, that we knew the mayor was up to something, but we didn't really know the extent of his, like, trafficking in demons until that moment, until we see the cabinet, right?
Jenny: Yes. Also, I'm gonna call bullshit, because the man, like, cleans under his fingernails every time he washes his hands, but he's gonna put his Scotch in the cabinet with all of the body parts and bones?
Kristin: Also, he just picks up that skull. With his hands. He seems not concerned.
Kate: I mean, a hundred percent. He definitely would have had to sanitize afterwards.
Jenny: His next reach was probably for-
Kristin: [laughing] Yeah, they cut the sanitizing. 'Cause there's a lot to include in this episode.
Jenny: Sure.
Kate: There's so much going on.
Kristin: So, we go to the credits, we come back, we're in school.
Jenny: Can we talk about- first of all, there's a "Go Sunnydale High Razorbacks" banner.
Kristin: Huge banner.
Jenny: That's blue and white, for some reason. And then, as they're coming down the stairs, or walking past the stairway, there's a Widespread Panic poster? Widespread Panic, for the uninitiated, is a jam band that enjoyed their heyday in the late 90s, and this is not the first, and probably won't be the last time we see a Widespread- there's Widespread Panic posters in Xander's room earlier in the series. There's Widespread Panic posters at The Bronze. And now there's one inexplicably on an exterior wall of Sunnydale High School.
Kristin: Interesting!
Kate: So we've moved past lotion… [crosstalk]
Kristin: Is there like- do you think the prop person was just dating people in the music scene? And like-
Jenny: Maybe.
Kate: It's very possible.
Jenny: There was also, in the last episode I forgot to mention it, there was a sticker on a locker for a band called Wet Dream.
Kristin: Ohhh. Real band? A real band?
Jenny: Didn't do the research, no.
Kristin: You just brought that up, just brought it into the-
Jenny: Well, I was gonna Google "wet dream," but then I decided fucking not to! [laughter]
Kristin: Okay, wise choice. I actually had a comment about the music, because the last episode that we watched, "Homecoming," there was a Lisa Loeb music cue, and I feel like in the earlier episodes, there were a lot of scoring, like there was a lot of like strings and this and that, and this season-
Jenny: And bands at The Bronze.
Kristin: And bands at The Bronze. But this season is placing music in ways that make me feel like I'm watching, I don't know, a 90s movie.
Jenny: Well, right, this is 1998, and Dawson's Creek is happening, right? And Paula Cole is happening- [laughter]
Kate: Is she ever!
Jenny: Whew! Is she ever. The kind of like- there's a massive television licensing boom in the late 90s.
Kate: Did you guys ever watch that Peter Gabriel tour where Paula Cole's on it?
Kristin: No!
Kate: My parents were always playing that. It was like, this recording of Peter Gabriel on tour, and Paula Cole was subbing in for all of, like, the backing vocals, and it is incredible.
Jenny: Oh my god. Oh my god.
Kate: I just wanna tell you it's a very good experience.
Jenny: That sounds amazing.
Kristin: Google alert!
Kate: He put on such a good show.
Jenny: He's fucking incredible.
Kate: I know, I love him very, very, very much. So, so good.
Kristin: Who knew the conversation was gonna go where it went?
Kate: I love Peter Gabriel! There's a whole DVD of all his music videos that I used to watch and rent from the library when I was a teenager. [laughs]
Jenny: Wow. Yes.
Kristin: Do you wanna know who I used to listen to that my parents turned me onto?
Jenny: Juice Newton?
Kristin: Juice Newton!
Kate: Juice Newton!
Jenny: Later named Chet.
Kristin: I fucking loved Juice Newton as a child and like, never heard of Juice Newton again until Buffy the Vampire Slayer when we find out-
Kate: Yeah, I'm gonna expose myself here and say that I, to this day, don't know who Juice Newton is.
Kristin: Juice Newton has like- one of her more famous songs is the one that's like, [sings] "play with the Queen of Hearts"- [sings tune]
Kate: Oh yeah, I know that, okay, yeah. I used to work in a candy store that exclusively played 80s Sirius FM radio, so, it was that song and then "Your Own Personal Jesus," are the only ones I remember hearing.
Kristin: [laughs] Great soundtrack.
Kate: Yeah, it was pretty good.
Kristin: So, anyhow, back to school. Cordelia wants to talk about the SATs.
Kate: And I think you'll remember, I brought this line up- [laughter] were we in Season 1? I don't even remember it, I was like, I'm sorry, I have to mention this, I'm very respectful of spoilers, but this is one of my favorite lines in the whole series. When she says, "I test well," what is it, "What, I can't have layers?"
Kristin: Right, is that- yeah, "What, I can't have layers?"
Kate: It's great, 'cause everyone's really worried about the SATs.
Kristin: Yeah, it's very beautiful.
Kate: It's very cute. Also, one of my favorite moments in this episode- or one of my favorite- the reasons that I come back to, yes, Oz was great, because I love [Jenny and Kristin saying "REDACTED"] but I also love Oz.
Kristin: Who's [Jenny and Kristin saying "REDACTED"]?
Kate: I don't know. Who is that?
Jenny: Ahhh.
Kate: See, I've been so good about this!
Kristin: We'll have fun with bleeping on that part. [laughter]
Kate: Get into it. But one of the reasons I love Oz so much is the scene when- is it Buffy that says, "Isn't she cute when she's proud?" talking about Willow, because Willow's bragging about Oz, and Oz says, "She's always cute." And it's so offhand, but it's so good.
Kristin: He's always there.
Kate: It's such a pure moment.
Jenny: He, like, never says anything shitty.
Kate: No! He's so good!
Jenny: So I just wanna, like, let everyone listening at home, if anybody is still with us who has written us, you know, really intense emails about how Xander is like this because he's a teenage boy, I just want you to direct your attention to the fact that Oz is also a teenage boy, and he's not an asshole!
Kate: Oz is great.
Kristin: Right, Oz is great, and he's very comfortable with who he is.
Kate: He is.
Kristin: Which is what sets him apart from Xander. I mean, you know, there are many things that set him apart from Xander, but that is a big one.
Kate: Also wanna draw attention to the fact that Cordelia says that amazing line while wearing a schoolgirl uniform that she's absolutely not required to wear.
Kristin: Ugh!
Jenny: Ding ding ding ding ding ding ding ding! [Kristin laughs]
Kate: And Buffy- Buffy is wearing, and it is hard to tell with the definition on this recording from the 90s, but I'm pretty sure Buffy's skirt is snake skin- faux snake skin. [Jenny laughs]
Kristin: Wow. [laughs] Imagine it was real snake skin? So many snakes.
Kate: But it is slit up to, like, just, like, her-
Jenny: Who knows where.
Kate: Yeah, to who knows where. It is quite an outfit.
Kristin: Wow. Also, there's a shout out to The Real World in this scene, which is very key, because- I didn't look it up, but Real World is probably in its third season at this point, right?
Kate: It's very hip.
Kristin: Very new, yeah, very-
Kate: Very now.
Kristin: I love a 90s shout out in a 90s television show. And then, of course-
Jenny: The Real World actually started in 1992.
Kristin: What? I thought it was four. So then we get to the band candy, the titular moment in the episode where we find out that they have to sell candy for the band, and Joyce- okay, so like, whatever, we find out they have to sell the candy. But my favorite part of this little transition is when we go to Joyce's house, and Joyce is like, chilling with some Chinese food. She's ordered in take-out 'cause she's busy at the gallery. And Buffy convinces her to buy twenty of the forty chocolate bars, which I feel like is a big- it's a big commitment for a mom.
Kate: Important to point out here, and I wrote it down originally and thencorrected myself: Joyce is not wearing a sweater set, but she is wearing a sweater tied around the shoulders.
Jenny: How is that thing staying on?
Kate: I don't know! Is it pinned? Is it by sheer willpower? [Kristin laughs]
Jenny: It's willpower. It might just be one garment, the undershirt and the-
Kristin: Oh! [laughs]
Kate: I mean, I don't know what it is.
Kristin: Like a dickey? But for sweater sets?
Jenny: Yeah, it's just, like, permanently attached.
Kate: It is pure Joyce, and I love it.
Kristin: Not to be confused with pure joy, but the same thing.
Kate: Oh, it's both. It's both.
Kristin: Pure JOY… ce. The other piece of this that's important is Buffy wants to drive.
Jenny: And Joyce doesn't want Buffy to drive.
Kristin: Right, which I get. Like, I- now, Kate, you don't drive.
Kate: I don't. I am 29, and I have never learned to drive. I live in Los Angeles, California, and let me tell you, it has- I have overcome my struggles. [Jenny laughs] I have an extremely actively Lyft account.
Kristin: Yeah! One of the unicorns, you're one of the LA unicorns that doesn't drive.
Kate: In so many ways. Yeah, I never learned. I grew up in a very small town where we had very accessible transit, and you know, you could pretty much not walk 40 minutes in any direction without leaving the province, so I never learned. And then I moved here, and I still haven't, and I'm going to? Eventually? But, I- yeah.
Kristin: So we've yet to know- the jury is still out on what kind of beginner driver you will be.
Kate: I wanna hope that I'm a little bit better than Buffy?
Kristin: You have a little bit more fear in your heart, because you're 29. Do you- were you a good driver when you were a teenager?
Jenny: Uhhhhhhh… [Kristin laughs] I wasn't great.
Kristin: Right? Me either. Because I was distracted and I wasn't afraid of dying. It's like why do we-
Jenny: Right. A terrible combination.
Kristin: It's a horrible age to- it's a horrible age.
Kate: Yeah, I'm afraid of everything now, so I can only assume I would be very cautious.
Kristin: If I could make the laws, I would make us all wait until we were 29 to drive.
Kate: I wish that were true, because I am tired of the disdainful looks-
Kristin: The stigma.
Kate: That I get from executives when I go to meetings and I show up in a Lyft. And they're like, "Oh, did you need to get validated?" I'm like, ugh, in different ways, yes. [laughter] Actually… [sighs]
Jenny: So then it's time for training in the library, another delightful installment of training. Giles is running out of ideas, he ties a blindfold around Buffy's eyeballs, and is like, "Wait five seconds, and then throw the ball where you think I am." And, of course, Buffy faces opposite of- puts her back to Giles, basically, blindfolded, and he's like, "Ha ha ha! She's never gonna hit me with the ball!" And he's feeling very smug, and then she rebounds the ball off the wall and hits him in the head.
Kristin: Narrowly escaping another knockout, Giles. Very close to another knockout.
Jenny: She probably didn't throw it at full strength.
Kristin: Speaking of training, someone else is training nearby, in a mansion, where, oops! He's not wearing a shirt. [Jenny laughs] Oops! He's so sweaty.
Jenny: What's the deal with vampires and sweat? Have we even talked- have we addressed this ever?
Kristin: Oooh, nooo…
Kate: Oh my god, I don't even know where to start with that one.
Kristin: Right? Do you think he just sprays himself down to get that human-
Jenny: I think Angel does exactly that.
Kate: He just wants a good sheen before Buffy comes over.
Kristin: Right? Oh my god, and he wanted to be tai-chi-ing when Buffy came over.
Kate: Yeah, no, the very best- mm, well, no. This moment- this episode is like pure, good moments- but one of the best moments in this episode is when he's doing it, sloooowwwly looks up, and is like, "Oh, I didn't see you there." [laughter]
Kristin: I'm so glad you said it, Kate, because I wrote down, in quotes, "Oh, I didn't see you there, Kate." [laughter]
Kate: It's just so absurd! He would've noticed, he's a vampire.
Jenny: His heightened senses.
Kate: He's got all those extra senses!
Kristin: Right? But they're really going hard on the fact that he is so focused on doing tai chi. Also, Buffy. [laughs] "I didn't know you could do that."
Kate: Another one of the greatest lines in this episode.
Kristin: Like, what? How- does she know that it's tai chi? And, if so, how- like, this is 1998, everyone, so you couldn't YouTube a video- like, where did Angel learn? Where-
Kate: I mean, he's two hundred and something years old, I'm sure he stumbled onto some tai chi at some point.
Kristin: And he was like, "You know what I need right now?" And he- it seems like the right decision for him, all things considered, but this whole-
Kate: I think it would be a very good meme to have that one clip of Buffy in reverence saying, " I didn't know you could do that." Just in response to very strange and mundane things. [laughter] So, get on that, because it would be very good.
Jenny: Like opening a ginger ale, calling a Lyft… [laughter]
Kate: Or someone doing something really embarrassing, like, you take a clip of someone falling over, or just, you know, whatever. "I didn't know you could do that." It's incredible.
Kristin: Alright, you heard it here first, internet. They're gonna get right on that shit, you know? I hope tomorrow, we wake up to 42 tweets.
Kate: It's so good. And I just, I mean, you know, shout out to Jane Espenson, 'cause I mean- every time I come on here, I'm a couple of months further into my career of trying to write for television, and it's so funny that I've come to this incredible appreciation for really tight and concise writing. And this episode is such an incredible example of it. There are no wasted lines. There are very few wasted moments, save for kind of the ending? Is a little, is a little- whatever. But it is just every- there are so many quotable lines in this episode and so many important lines, that it is a masterpiece, and Jane Espenson, what's up? You are one of my heroes.
Kristin: Nice work, lady. So, tai chi, just to get back to it for one second. Angel's doing it because he's been tortured for hundreds of years, and he's trying to, you know, get control of himself again. And so, I just wanna say, I don't know that it's working, since he's trying to overcome hundreds of years of torture, but the first thing he says when he sits down on the couch is, "How is… Scott?" [laughter] I feel like, man, if you can't even let go of this dude she's kinda dating, probably you have to do a little more tai chi. I just feel like probably he could be a little bit more centered.
Jenny: He also segues right from like, she for whatever reason, she says, "smell me" while she's like standing with her bosom at the exact same latitude as his face, and like, is very close to him. And then looks awkward but doesn't step back at all. They just like, stay close and weird, and he just kind of looks hungry. And then she steps away finally, and then he's like, "So how is, uh, Scott?"
Kate: I think it's one thing that, even though some of this situation is kind of goofy, this whole "we're trying to be friends" thing. It is one thing that, you know, as more of an adult than I was when I originally watched the show, that I have really come to appreciate as like, they did do that pretty well. Like, that idea of trying to be friends with someone that you've had this really intense sexual relationship with and this really strong chemistry, and trying to just be chill, and like, you can't. Maybe after several years where you've had lived experiences, and this sort of is addressed again later in Season 4, we'll cut back to that, it's fine. But I really love it, and I was thinking about it when we were watching it now, about how kinda well that's done, even in between all the goofiness of the tai chi.
Kristin: No, totally! I agree, I agree. I think it's that thing where, just when they get a little bit comfortable, somebody does something that reminds them.
Kate: It's just like a match next to Tinder constantly, where it's like, we both know that this is a bad idea, but we're working so hard to convince ourselves that it's fine. And, like, who hasn't been there?
Kristin: And you know who is about to get really intense in the next scene?
Kate: I do, actually!
Kristin: My notes in all-caps are, "Mom and Dad are in it together!" [laughter] Wow. Things are about to get real fun, real quick. But before they do, this is a real moment. This is- I mean, you're right, this episode is written brilliantly. But there is something really awkward about the very serious revelation that Buffy has been lying, Buffy's not telling the truth, Giles and Joyce are worried, Willow is whatever, and they are just devouring chocolate during the scene.
Jenny: Yeah, they're just like, puff, puff, pass. Puff, puff, pass.
Kate: It's so good! Joyce crumples up a chocolate bar, puts it down on the table, Giles pulls one out of his blazer and hands one to Joyce! [laughter] It's like, let's keep this party goin'!
Kristin: I have to say that, like, Joyce and Giles, when they're turning on the chemistry, it's working for me. Kate, you mentioned before we started taping, I believe, that you had two sexual tension awards to give. You didn'tclear that with us, but I would just like to tap in here and find out: who's it gonna go to?
Kate: Well, it's interesting, because you have sexual tension and does it still count if it's consummated? Because Joyce and Giles are incredible in this episode, and this episode was very, like- I was what, like, thirteen? [Kristin laughs] And I was just like, hmm, something has been tickled in the deep recesses of my mind. [laughter] But we also have a character that's going to enter the scene, who has a great relationship with Giles. [Jenny groans] Who I would say, for me, is the closest parallel to Remus and Sirius from Harry Potter, and I have a lot of feelings about them, as well. So…
Jenny: Wow.
Kate: They are the competition.
Kristin: So, is it on us to decide as we discuss who's going to win it? Or do you know in your heart who's won?
Kate: I would like to come to a consensus as a group.
Kristin: Okay, alright. Well, let's get to that scene, and then we'll just suss it out, shall we?
Kate: Yes, let's!
Kristin: So, okay, back to Joyce and Giles. One thing I wanted to call out here is that Buffy has a line where she says they're both making her work 24 hours a day, which together, makes 48 hours a day of work, and I believe-
Jenny: [gasps] That! Is! Some!
NOTES: [JINGLE: "Hell math!"]
Kristin: Ah, yes. Thank you, thank you for giving me my hell math jingle.
Jenny: It's not exactly like, SAT hell math-
Kristin: But it's still hell math!
Jenny: But 24 plus 24-
Kristin: Equals 48! [laughs]
Jenny: It's undeniable!
Kate: You can't argue with that!
Kristin: And before we go to the commercial break, we get the reveal that who is helping Trick?
Jenny: Oh my Goodddd!
Kristin: But one of Kate Leth's favorite characters-
Kate: I. Love. Him. He's. So. [singsong] Hot and evil!
Kristin: [sighs] Ethan Rayne!
Kate: I love him.
Kristin: Beautiful.
Jenny: Do you think- does being evil make someone hotter to you?
Kristin: Yes. Sorry, I know that question was for Kate. [laughs]
Jenny: That was for Kate.
Kate: Listen, I… can't say no. It depends on the kind of evil?
Kristin: That's true.
Kate: Like, there's actual, genuine, horrible, dark evil that, like, nah. But when it's like, trickster evil.
Kristin and Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: Exactly!
Kate: Definitely a bent of sexual tension. Right? Like, yeah, Ethan's an incredible villain, and all of his episodes are great.
Kristin: And he has such a likeable- like, yeah. He's not just a bad guy.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kate: [singsongy] He and Giles! Such a complicated history. I'm singing about it. I get so excited! [laughter]
Kristin: So, before we get too deep into Ethan Rayne, we go back to school, and- yes!
Jenny: Yo, Buffy and Cordelia- digest this: Buffy and Cordelia are lab partners.
Kristin: [suggestively] Yeah, they are.
Jenny: They are lab partners.
Kate: Digest this, Jenny: Cordelia re-wears a shirt.
Jenny: For once!
Kate: She wears the same shirt, and I'm not exactly sure what episode it was, but I do remember pointing it out in Fashion Watch where she wears a light green shirt that has yellow cuffs that are turned up. And when she originally wears it, it's buttoned all the way up, but in this one, she's wearing it a little bit differently with a different skirt. And it's like, unbuttoned a little bit further and her hair's different. But… she re-wears a shirt!
Kristin: Kate, she thought no one was gonna notice.
Kate: Oh, I did. [laughter]
Kristin: She waited years! She didn't even know that-
Kate: She didn't even have bangs anymore!
Kristin: [laughing] She didn't know that years from then, someone named-
Jenny: One girl, in all the world, chosen to notice Cordelia outfit repeats 20 years later! [Kristin laughs]
Kate: Someone had to say it!
Kristin: So Giles is not showing up for study hall, and I had, like, I wrote down a note about this, because they say this thing like, "If the teacher's ten minutes late, it means we can all leave," and this was, like, an urban legend? Is that what you would call it? It was like a myth in my school, too.
Kate: Oh, mine for sure.
Kristin: Right? Like, where does it come from?
Jenny: I never heard such a thing.
Kristin: No?
Jenny: But also I might have just been, um, willfully deaf to… student-sourced opportunities to misbehave.
Kristin: Right, right, right. Yeah, you just wanted to always play by the rules all the time?
Kate: I misbehaved… fervently.
Kristin: Me, too. All I did-
Kate: We had a limit each semester where you could have- you could miss-
Kristin: Oh my god, right?
Kate: Did I talk about this before, where you could miss-
Kristin: No, I just know.
Kate: Twelve- I think it was like twelve classes- or… twelve classes? Per semester. And I would always max out, because I would get 48 between four classes. I would have the exact limit of how many classes you could skip and still pass. 'Cause I was a little jackass.
Kristin: Hell yes. Yes, I had a limit on how many times you could sign in late. When I was a senior, you could sign yourself in late without a parent's note. What a horrible rule! Where did that come from? And I would be right at the edge. All the time. I knew my limits, and I would…
Kate: I definitely used to sign fake names on the, like, when you would go in and out of school, and you had to sign in to go back into school, and I would sign fake names constantly.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: Teaching at high school has to be a nightmare.
Kate: I can't imagine how awful it is.
Kristin: [laughs] So then, I scream in my notes, "No, sweet music? No, no, no, no, no, nice shoes." [Jenny laughs]
Kate: Yes. Agreed on all points. They are cute. But, again, worst plotline in almost the entire show.
Jenny: Please stop.
Kate: It's one of the worst. It's so bad, and watching it happen, and knowing where it's going, and just, it is like bugs under my skin.
Kristin: Yes.
Kate: I hate it. I hate it.
Kristin: And, like, the last episode, so obviously-
Kate: We're not being very specific about what's actually happening.
Kristin: Willow and Xander are playing footsie in their Adidas shoes.
Jenny: And they should stop.
Kate: And they need to stop.
Kristin: And I'm upset. Like, I was upset in "Homecoming" when this first started happening last week, I was very frustrated. But I felt like there was a nostalgia to it, and I was like, I don't like it but I kind of, like, got the conflict. And now they're just fucking sitting in science, in whatever the fuck class they're in-
Jenny: In class! In broad daylight!
Kristin: And they're touching feet right behind Cordelia?
Kate: I hate it. I mean, it definitely feels like a thing stupid, hormonal teenagers would do, so I can give it that…
Kristin: Ugh, but not Willow!
Kate: No, I know, it's terrible. It's terrible. It's terrible.
Kristin: I just hate it.
Kate: You can see that they're in physical pain. So, you know.
Kristin: Yeah. Luckily, Miss Barton comes along. [laughter] Bless Miss Barton, by the way.
Kate: "Let's be cool!"
Kristin: Yeah, the chocolate is starting to take effect.
Kate: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: And we learn that it's really taking effect when we go to Giles' house.
Jenny: Right. He didn't show up to cover study hall, and Buffy is like, "Whaaaattt?" and so goes to his house to check on him, to make sure he's not murdered or wounded or very ill.
Kate: Brief stop along the road to point out that Buffy is wearing a baby blue backpack.
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: A teeny, tiny backpack!
Kate: Had to make a note, she wears baby blue. [laughter]
Kristin: So, Giles and Joyce are like, "We're just coordinating your schedule, Buffy." And then Buffy leaves, driving a car 'cause Joyce doesn't give a fuck, 'cause Joyce is eating so much chocolate. And then we get the first of many beautiful scenes.
Kate: It is so [singsongy] good! [laughter] The second Buffy leaves- and Buffy is so excited to go on her new driving adventure, even though she doesn't have a license. It's just absurdly irresponsible.
Jenny: Right?
Kristin: What the fuck!
Kate: Joyce pulls out this bottle of wine, does this amazing hand gesture where she's like, "Whew! She almost caught us!" [laughter] Giles does this, like, turn over the shoulder in his suspenders, lights a cigarette.
Jenny: Oh my god!
Kristin: Lights a cigarette, which by the way, like, obviously, they had to put it as "cigarettes" because it was a television show, but-
Jenny: But it's definitely shorthand.
Kristin: For sure, they're supposed to be smoking joints. There's no question.
Kate: Yeah, absolutely. They're very, very high.
Kristin: They're smoking the cigarettes like joints.
Kate: They're listening to records and lying on the floor. [Kristin laughs] I'm sure people have done that while smoking cigarettes, but they are a small minority. Especially in the state of California.
Kristin: Yeah, no, no, most people are smoking special cigarettes, if you know what I mean.
Kate: Jazz cigarettes.
Jenny: Jazz cigarettes!
Kristin: [laughing] Thank you, I knew there was something that you could modify cigarettes with.
Kate: I'm here for you.
Kristin: Also, before we leave this beautiful moment, I just wanna shout out to Giles' jam face, when he like, fucking, he's like, "I should get a band together!" and then he does a real Giles jam face.
Jenny: Oh my god. Oh my god.
Kate: Slightly before that moment is one of my favorite lines in this episode, one of the ones that was the most tingling to me as a youth.
Kristin: Oh, yes. Kate Leth's tingle watch! [laughter]
Kate: There's a lot. There's a lot in this episode. But when Joyce asks him if he knows Seals and Crofts. [laughter] And while smoking a cigarette, lying on his back with his arms behind his head, he goes, "Yeah, they're okay." And I remember being a kid, and being like, "Oh! Oh! His disinterest!"
Kristin: [laughing] Oh my God!
Kate: Plant the seed for a lot of problems in my future. No, it's very, it's very good.
Kristin: It really is, and it just keeps getting better. It's like, you think that that's the peak, and then you keep watching this episode.
Kate: I love the fact that Joyce isn't that cool.
Jenny: Joyce is definitely not cool enough to be with Giles!
Kate: She's kind of a dweeb, yeah!
Jenny: But she might be, like-
Kristin: But she's like, playing her sexy card! You know? To stick around with Giles.
Kate: Absolutely.
Kristin: And it's working!
Kate: Yeah. She is working it.
Kristin: As is that jacket- what would you call that? It's not a jacket, it's like a long thing-
Kate: The first tier jacket or the second tier jacket?
Kristin: The first tier- the first thing, the flowy one.
Kate: It's like stretch knit, almost? Like crocheted?
Kristin: I love it!
Kate: It's very good. [Jenny laughs]
Kristin: It's very good! And, okay, so we go to The Bronze. This is, I called it "Adult Night at The Bronze," right?
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: There's a great comment by Willow, "Maybe there's a Billy Joel concert in town?" [laughter] Which I just feel like, that's exactly what I would've said in 1998 to reference a bunch of adults doing things that I didn't understand. No offense to Billy Joel, whom I love.
Jenny: Bless Devon, front person of "Dingos Ate My Baby," feeling appreciated for once, maybe the only time in the whole series? [Kristin laughs] He's delighted at the response they're getting from this new crowd.
Kristin: This scene reminds me so much of Hocus Pocus.
Jenny: Oh yeah!
Kristin: You know, when all the adults are stuck dancing? It's like, that's what's happening here.
Kate: Very similar vibes. And we run in again to Miss Barton.
Kristin: Miss Barton has a glass- [laughter] Which, like, let's play a little clip of Miss Barton in this scene.
NOTES: [Clip from the episode]
Willow: Are you okay, Miss Barton?
Miss Barton: Oh, I'm cool, Willow. Willow, that's a tree. Ha-ha! You're a tree! Ah-ah-are there any nachos in here, little tree?
Buffy: Are you sure you don't need some fresh air, Miss Barton?
Miss Barton: Oh-oh-okay! [laughing]
Kate: I love it. And I love how she's clearly so stoned.
Kristin: So high on her cigarettes. [laughter] So many cigarettes.
Kate: Jazz cigarettes! At this jazz club.
Kristin: So, we do like a quick flash to the warehouse after we leave The Bronze, and we get- what I love about this scene is, so Trick is like "don't sample the product" and snaps this guy's neck. And Ethan Rayne, like, I feel like in this moment, Ethan Rayne is like, "Ooh, I got in a little bit over my head." Like, I don't know but [laughter] we've seen him, like, totally go apeshit on people, but he seems very intimidated by the scope of the operation here in the warehouse.
Kate: I love how grounded Ethan is for being such an evil, scheming bastard. He's always just like, "Oh, yeah," kind of rolling with stuff? A little, I dunno, a little rattled? But, he just, yeah, he just kind of goes with it.
Kristin: God. Also, we see Snyder.
Jenny: "Just call me Snyder. Just the last name, like Barbarino." Who is Barbarino?
Kate: I don't know.
Kristin: Barbarino- isn't Barbarino from Welcome Back, Kotter or like, a show from the- we gotta look it up.
Kate: Yes, it's John Travolta in Welcome Back, Kotter.
Kristin: Wow. Wow. Everyone, I didn't think I was right. Jenny looked it up.
Jenny: So Snyder thinks he's as cool as young John Travolta.
Kristin: Right. And he's about as far as one could get from being as cool as young John Travolta.
Kate: I love seeing him be a dweeb. It's really good.
Jenny: It's the best!
Kristin: He's unbelievable.
Kate: I'm so pleased that I've said the word "dweeb" twice tonight.
Kristin: [laughs] And "parabola!" You're nailin' it.
Kate: Right? I'm just here to, you know, bring it up. Yeah, he is incredibly awful, and it's really fun and I feel like he must've had a really good time acting this.
Kristin: Yes! Right?
Jenny: I feel like all the grown-ups have the best time.
Kate: Yeah! So good.
Kristin: I mean, Snyder when he gets in the car with them, and she drives away, and he has that line, "Summers, you drive like such a spaz!" It's like, ugh! It's so good.
Kate: It's ridiculous!
Kristin: So then we get this, like, cutaway, which I wanna just talk about because, it's like, we're doing a cutaway to see how all of the adults are affected by the chocolate. And one of the things is that the mailman is reading all the mail and giggling. And the other thing is frisbee, which I just-
NOTES: [laughter]
Jenny: Yeah! What?
Kate: Ultimate frisbee at night in the children's playground.
Kristin: It doesn't seem to fit with the theme of, like, badass teenagers.
Kate: That one children's playground, they definitely milk for all it's worth in the show.
Jenny: Oh my God, yes.
Kate: It comes up a lot.
Kristin: That's Drusilla- I refer to that as Drusilla's Playground. [laughs]
Jenny: Also, when we see the two guys drag racing? I just wanna say that-
Kate: Yes. While eating chocolate.
Kristin: [laughing] I can't get enough.
Jenny: While eating chocolate, and like, competitively taking bites, but kind of like, suggestively taking bites? And looking at each other while they rev their engines.
Kate: Maybe they are a latecomer to the sexual tension award.
Kristin: I was gonna say, yeah, are you suggesting a third contender?
NOTES: [laughs]
Jenny: Possibly, the dark horse emerging!
Kate: They can't compete, but it's fun to see them try.
Jenny: I just wanna note that they are at a red light, and that's how, like, ideally we envision a drag race thing getting started between two dudes who have to fuckin'-
Kristin: Yeah, either that or with a lady holding a flag in between them.
Jenny: Right. But they are each on the side of a double yellow line [laughter] so I wanna know how they came to rest like that.
Kristin: Wow, Jenny!
Kate: I did not notice that, that feels like something I would notice!
Kristin: Me, either!
Kate: Very impressed, very impressed.
Jenny: Thank you! Also, Snyder's face after the shirtless doctor and his cohorts sing an acapella version of "Louie Louie" on the stage of The Bronze! And two dudes, like, start pushing each other. When Snyder's- Snyder's fucking face when he's like, "Fight!" He looks like a cartoon. His face, like, turns back and forth so fast and his eyes are all big, and he's so jazzed. It's great.
Kristin: It is really great.
Kate: It's very good.
NOTES: [Ad Music Starts]
Kristin: Today's episode was brought to you by HelloFresh. HelloFresh is the meal kit service that makes cooking more fun, so you can focus on the whole experience, and not just the final plate. The meals that HelloFresh sends to your doorstep are made in six easy-to-master steps. Seriously, six steps, it rules, it's very satisfying to look at, it's very satisfying to do. The mayonnaise comes in tiny little jars! Most of the recipes also just take thirty minutes, and they don't require much equipment from your kitchen at all. HelloFresh currently offers customers a classic box, a veggie box, a family box, and a blood box. Just kidding about the last one! But wouldn't that be nice for the vampires? Jenny and I love HelloFresh, we love the evenings, especially when we're short on time, having a full meal that we can prepare very quickly, that's an amazing tool to have for so many of us who are constantly running around. Vampires and slayers are allowing you to get discounted food. It must be the year 2017. You can use the code "buffering30," that's "buffering," the number three, the number zero, to get $30 off your first week of HelloFresh. You just go to hellofresh.com and enter that code, "buffering30." Boom.
NOTES: [Ad Music Ends]
Kate: But there's- can we, can we-
Kristin: Please! Please, please, yes, let's, Kate. [laughs] Kate, where are we going? What's going to happen now?
Kate: Well, we're just going to see the best thing in the world, aren't we? [laughter] If I was going to do a Fashion Watch for this episode, it would just be about Joyce and Giles in this scene. All other fashion leaves my mind. It is as if it never happened because of these two. And I can't- do we start with them walking on the one street of downtown Sunnydale?
Kristin: Yeah!
Kate: Yeah, and she's already in that very cool knit, crochet thing, whatever it is-
Kristin: Very cool jacket thingy.
Jenny: She's got a choker.
Kristin: She looks hot.
Kate: She's got a choker! Her hair is looking unbelievable.
Jenny: Yeah, her hair looks fucking great.
Kate: She's wearing, like, yeah, this short skirt, and like, kneehigh boots. She looks hot. [laughter] I'm just, like, so into Joyce in this scene.
Kristin: Ugh, agreed.
Kate: I didn't know how to handle it when I was like thirteen, because Joyce was my mom. Like, I was watching this, and she was my TV mom, and I was like, "Oh no!"
Kristin: Oh, that's true.
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: See, like, I never had the experience of watching it when Joyce would only have been a mom to me, you know?
Kate: Yeah, it's a lot.
Kristin: Like, I was already an adult when I watched it for the first time, so I was just automatically, like, "Damn!" [laughs]
Kate: I'm separate enough from it now that I can be, like, "Shit, Joyce!"
Kristin: Yeah, like, looking good, Joyce. Looking great, Giles, in that white T-shirt!
Kate: But yes, we cannot forget dear Giles, sweet Giles, precious, evil, sexy Giles. [laughs] I can't even talk about him! [laughter] Both of them in this scene are just, like, I'm a bisexual! In giant, sparkly, glittering letters. It's incredible. His look is so good, his shirt tied around his waist, very 90s cool, his pack of cigarettes rolled up in his sleeve.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Very 50s, but we'll take it in the 90s! [laughs]
Kate: Sure! Why not? I mean, that's definitely, yeah. It definitely works. And they're incredible.
Kristin: Smashing the glass?
Kate: "You fancy that?"
Kristin: Ugh! The bad boy? C'mon!
Jenny: Oh my God.
Kate: He's so bad! And then he steals a really terrible hat.
Jenny: Terrible hat!
Kristin: That's where fashion goes kind of- takes a hard turn.
Kate: Luckily for all of us, he abandons it almost immediately when he beats up a cop. [laughter] Good for you, Giles.
Kristin: Good thing he beats up that cop so that the cop car is free, and Joyce and Giles can make out on the hood of the car!
Jenny: Hurray!
Kate: But, I mean. Do they just make out?
Kristin: Do they?
Kate: 'Cause I don't think they do.
Kristin: Where do you think they sleep together?
Kate: Oh, I think they fuck on the cop car.
Kristin: On the car?
Kate: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: Wow. Kids, sorry. [laughter]
Kate: She's wearing that coat, that Juice Newton coat-
Kristin: Yeah, that's true, that's true. Wow!
Kate: With all of the feathers flying all over it, she looks like Fiona from Josie and the Pussy Cats. It's perfect. How could Giles resist? How could she resist?
Kristin: Yeah, how could Giles resist?
Kate: They are incredible. It's just flawless.
Jenny: She also says, "You are so cool. You're like Burt Reynolds."
Kate: [laughing] And then he does this thing where he, like, grabs her kind of intensely?
Kristin: [laughing] I'm with you, I'm with you. Kate, I am with you.
Kate: If I had a jingle that was just the sound of me sweating, it would play right now. [laughter]
Jenny: I'm gonna work on that.
Kristin: Oh my god, well, you know, I feel like maybe, to let Kate Leth take a cool down, we should go to a very, very important interview that we have done for this episode where we talk to Kristin Sutherland, guys. We have never been more excited to talk to a human being. No offense, anyone in the room with me.
Kate: None taken.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: Than we were to talk to Kristin Sutherland.
NOTES: [Chime]
Kristin: Well, Kristin, thank you, thank you, thank you for taking the time out to talk to us. We are, as you might imagine, very excited to be able to have you on our podcast.
Kristin: Oh, thank you.
Kristin: We'd love to start at the beginning. Tell us about your audition process, tell us how you met Joyce.
Kristin: [laughs] The audition page actually just said, "Buffy's Mom."
NOTES: [laughter]
Kristin: How rude!
Kristin: Yeah. I was actually considering just stopping acting, because I didn't like the audition process in LA. And so, I was contemplating writing my agent this letter, but it was really hard to write, so I was just in this holding pattern. And then he said, "I've got an audition for you," so I was like, oh my gosh, I have to go to this audition because I haven't told him I don't wanna do this anymore! [laughter] So I thought, "Oh, what the hell, I'll just go." And then I went in, and I only had, like, four lines. And I thought, "Gee, I dunno how they're gonna tell with four lines."
Kristin: Were you reading at that point with Sarah, or, you know, was this just a cold read in a room? Were they testing for chemistry or just-
Kristin: No, no, Sarah wasn't there, I was just reading with a reader, and Joss and a few other people were in the room. So I went home, and then I was quite surprised when they called up and said, "You're gonna be Buffy's mom." So I patiently waited to find out what my name was gonna be. [laughter] And when they said "Joyce," I thought, "Joyce? That's such an old-fashioned name. Well, whatever." [laughs] You know, now I've been Joyce for a very long time.
Kristin: That's fascinating that that was on the cusp of you almost taking a step away, to then be in these shoes that would carry you for many, many years through the role of Joyce. So, today we're talking about "Band Candy," which is a fan favorite. It is such a beloved episode. It is just jam-packed with so many incredibly fun moments, and we wanna start with a personalquestion about you. Which is: is teenaged Joyce anything like teenaged Kristin?
Kristin: Um, not really. [laughter] I was a very shy teenager with only a small group of friends, feeling incredibly awkward. I was incredibly awkward. I still had my glasses, I had braces. So, this was really, really fun for me. Because I got to be the kind of teenager that I would be with the life experiences I have. My ability- you know, to get to do it again and enjoy it, and have the confidence to be the person that I wish I could've been when I was a teenager.
Jenny: Oh, wow.
Kristin: So it was a real fantasy.
Kristin: I was gonna say, you owned it very, very, very much so. [laughs]
Jenny: Super convincing.
Kristin: You know, it really felt that way. I didn't really do much preparation, and it just kind of, like, it just happened. And the costume was fantastic. [laughter]
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: The clothing told me what kind of teenager I was. Sometimes I think costumes are amazing. You put them on, and you suddenly understand who you are. You know, so sometimes, that whole creative team can give you sort of the insight that you need into who you are. I'm a big believer in, sometimes a character starts with a pair of shoes, and how they make you walk. So, that costume that they put me in just sort of said it all! [laughs] And it was really liberating. It was very, very liberating because, you know, as adults, and even I, as a teenager, I didn't act out. And so it was so fun, to get to just act out.
Kristin: That's probably what makes it so enjoyable to watch. Because you're not only- Joyce is not only having a blast, but you were having a blast. [laughter]
Kristin: And Armin was so funny.
Jenny: Oh my god. Yes.
Kristin: You know? I mean, he was just so unbelievably nerdy. [laughs]
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: And he's a delightful person. I really enjoyed working with him, and we had a really good time on that episode, as well as with Anthony.
Kristin: I wonder, you know, one of our questions was about working with Anthony and Armin on this episode, and we wonder, you know, if you have any stories in specific about that work with them or just wanna talk to us about it, 'cause it's just such a joy to watch.
Kristin: Oh, it was just all so fun. You know, of course, the hood of the car… [laughters] was particularly fun. I had never had the opportunity to do something like that before. [laughter] And you know, being in that sort of outdoor set on the sort of main street of this small town, I felt like it was my Grease moment.
Jenny: Yes, exactly!
Kristin: Truly! [laughs] The question I have pertaining to this is about fan fiction. We're wondering if you know about the fanfiction that focuses on Joyce and Giles, and even some of it that focuses on Joyce and Pat, of course, the beloved next door neighbor.
Jenny: Your friend from book club.
Kristin: Your friend- right. [laughs] And if you do know about this fanfiction that exists, what your thoughts are on that particular legacy.
Kristin: You know what? I didn't know that there was fanfiction. [laughs]
Jenny: Amazing.
Kristin: And maybe best to not know. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah, maybe best to not know.
Kristin: I mean I do- I've not read the fanfiction, but I do know that during the course of even shooting it, that there was this strange tension about would Giles and Joyce get together.
Jenny: Mm-hmm, 'cause you're both functioning as parents, kind of.
Kristin: Of course, and we see that all the time.
Kristin: Yeah, yeah. And some people on the set or people who were watching felt that they wanted it to happen. I wouldn't say that they felt that it was inevitable, but they really wanted it to happen. And I, of course, was sure that it wouldn't. Because anything that Joss thought people wanted to happen couldn't happen. [laughter]
Kristin: That's how he gets us!
Kristin: Yes, yes, exactly.
Jenny: Well, we know you have a really busy schedule, so we just have one more question.
Kristin: Okay.
Jenny: What is the one thing that no one has ever asked you about being on Buffy that you wish somebody would?
Kristin: I don't know that this has ever come up and I'm not sure this is the question that you're looking for, but it's a really funny story. Because I was going to leave the business, just like wearing, a- well, I won't say that, 'cause it's a spoiler alert. [laughter] But back before I auditioned for it, I decided that moving myself towards this choice, because my daughter was really young, and I was just sort of thinking, "You know, I'll just be a stay at home mom while she's working" 'cause my husband had a really good job, and that was certainly something that I could have easily done. So before I wrote the letter that I never wrote, I cut my hair really short. But my headshot, my hair was long. So when we started shooting- so, I had auditioned with long hair, and then cut it off.
Kristin: Oh wow.
Jenny: Oh my gosh.
Kristin: And when I got to the set for the first thing, there was all these things of Joss talking to the hair department going, "No! No! You've got her hair all wrong!" And I knew that what he didn't realize was that I had cut it! And that there was no way they could make my hair look like it had in my audition. [laughter] And I didn't like my hair short at all, so that whole first season, my hair was quite short. And then by the time we came back to shooting, you know, I had let it grow out. But I always thought that that was really funny, that- like a typical guy, it didn't occur to him that it had been drastically cut.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: Did you ever have that conversation or is he just out there somewhere still not knowing why Joyce's hair was not the way he wanted in Season 1? [laughs]
Kristin: Yes, I've kept it a secret all these years. [laughter]
Jenny: We're here to break the story wide open.
Kristin: Yes, yes, breaking on "Buffering the Vampire Slayer." [laughter] That's incredible. Well, Kristin, thank you so, so much. It's just been such a delight to talk to you and to have you as a part of the podcast, and I know that our listeners are- we don't even know when we're going to tell them, it's just- [laughs] they're just gonna be so excited. Joyce is so dear to so many of our hearts in so many different ways. So thank you again for being a part of this with us.
Kristin: Oh, thank you guys so much for spending this time with me.
NOTES: [Chime]
Kristin: Wow. That was a highlight of both of our lives, I will say that. And I do want to let you all know that we spoke with Kristin for almost an entire hour, but a lot of our interview, we're keeping for down the line. Hashtag spoiler alerts.
Kate: I'm sorry for objectifying you, Joyce.
Kristin: I know, but, you know- I'm sorry too, but also, we're people! We're human beings!
Kate: [sighs] Let's talk more about her.
Kristin: Yes, let's. Shall we? So, Buffy walks in.
Jenny: First, sorry, I just- you know, Buffy gets into a car accident.
Kristin: Oh, right! [laughs]
Kate: It's true.
Jenny: Just a minor-
Kristin: Sure, sure. There's a demon who eats babies and a car accident, nobody cares!
Jenny: Yeah, whatever!
Kate: But it is one of the drag racers, isn't it? Who hits Buffy?
Kristin: No, no, no, it was just a person not looking-
Jenny: I think so- oh, no, no no! It was a truck driver or something who was just trying to open up his chocolate bar while driving.
Kate: Oh, right!
Jenny: Classic!
Kristin: And they're, like- the things that are happening before the car crash is that they're like putting this together. It's like, Buffy's like, wait a minute. Nobody's in their houses. Wait a minute. Something's going on. Wait a minute. It's the candy.
Kate: The one suspension of disbelief in this episode, outside of the baby eating, really is that it takes them that long to figure out that it's the candy. It's pretty obvious.
Kristin: Literally, one of the first scenes, they're like, "Band candy." I mean, c'mon.
Kate: Like, I've been watching Hannibal and it's like, one of those things where it's like, no one ever stops and is just like, "Oh, but his name's Hannibal! Maybe he's the guy!"
Jenny: It rhymes with "cannibal"! [laughter]
Kate: It's just… I never put that together even though we all work for the FBI and we're all geniuses! It's so funny! It's weird. It's a very good show.
Kristin: It would be too obvious. Just too obvious.
Kate: Yeah. The fashion in that show- woof! Anyway.
Kristin: So, Buffy suffers a fate of seeing her mom and dad, for all intents and purposes, making out hardcore.
Jenny: And when she calls them on it, the only response that she gets right away is Giles saying, "Go away, we're busy." Mom and Dad are having special, alone Mom and Dad time right now.
Kristin: And she recovers pretty fast, like-
Kate: She's dealing with a lot in this moment. I mean, she's just been in a car accident. Also, shout out to my home of the Maritimes in Canada when she says there's a dent in the car the size of New Brunswick!
Jenny: Aww!
Kristin: Aww! That was for you, Kate! [laughs]
Kate: I wrote that down, it was very special to me.
Kristin: But like, yeah, she's been in a car accident, Giles and her mom are making out, and she still pretty quickly is like, "Giles, do you wanna fight me or do you wanna let me talk to my mom?" You know?
Kate: It's also really great when she points out the dent in the car and Joyce says, what is it? [laughing] Like, "When did I buy the geek machine?"
Kristin: The geek machine! Oh my god. Also, Giles has a moment right before that where- when Buffy says this to her- when Buffy says to Giles, like, do you wanna fight me, whatever. When he's like, silenced and needs to, like, play it cool- you know how when a cat falls off a thing but then pretends they were just gonna-
Jenny: Clean their foot.
Kristin: Be giving themsel- right- a bath. Giles has this moment with Buffy where he, like, goes to get a cigarette out of his ear, like he was always going to get a cigarette out of his ear the whole time, and it's just a real good look for him.
Kate: It's very good. He definitely recovers that way a couple times.
Jenny: Also! Giles! Perhaps! Swung by vamp mansion to borrow Angel's eyeliner! He's wearing eyeliner! He is wearing liner around his eyes.
Kate: [moans]
Jenny: I know, Kate, I feel like you were just starting to calm down a little bit. [Kristin laughs]
Kate: I can't, I can't, I can't? I can't! Whew!
Kristin: Yeah, and with that eyeliner, I will tell you what, 'cause um, somebody's about to enter the picture. We're about to get a little meeting between two people whose names are Giles and Ethan Rayne.
Kate: My boys.
Kristin: Your boys! They are your boys.
Kate: My honeys.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: And there's a look- like, there's a rivalry. But there's a look that Giles, like, nods at Ethan right before the rivalry begins. And I'm here for it.
Kate: Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. They were, like, bad, punk, dark magic boys together. Come on.
Kristin: Yes! And so Giles- that's what's confusing, 'cause I guess they revert not to their teenaged selves but to a version of- because if they had reverted to their teenaged selves, then wouldn't Giles be like, "Oh my god, Ethan!"
Kate: Yeah, it's definitely like echoes of it. Or you know, the way of seeing the world, the way of interacting with the world, but it's not like you- but, I mean, he does sort of, later- they've forgotten things. It's-
Kristin: Right, it's complicated.
Kate: It works the way it needs to work in each scene.
Kristin: Yeah, just a little bit of metaphytics here for the chocolate. Yeah, Giles has- I wrote, "Nice move, Giles," and I'm not sure why. He has several nice moves. I think he jumps over a conveyer belt thing really swiftly.
Jenny: Nice. Nice!
Kristin: Yeah, just like, very agile. Very a-Giles. Guys? [groans] No?
Jenny: Ohhh… kay.
Kristin: You can't see me at home, but my eyes are darting back and forth to Kate and Jenny for any form of approval.
Jenny: Did you need validation?
Kristin: I needed some. No approval. [laughs]
Kate: It's perfect. I love it. Thank you. Yeah, they immediately confront Ethan, like as soon as they get in there, and it's very good. Buffy has a couple of really good lines when she says- what does she say, the thing about him being farm fresh chicken?
Kristin: Oh yes, when he somehow in a box?
Jenny: He somehow got inside of a crate. A sealed crate.
Kristin: Yeah, and she, like, senses him. She's like, "Beep beep beep beep!" and puts her foot through the crate. Yeah, she's got a nice quip.
Kate: Yeah, it's very good, because almost immediately, Giles is Buffy's cheerleader into beating the crap out of Ethan. He wants it so badly, he's bouncing around behind her.
Jenny: Oh my god. "Hit him! Hit him! Hit him!"
Kate: "Hit him!" So excited! It's so good.
Kristin: [laughing] And then, when she does hit him, his, like, "Yes!"
Jenny: Little victory jump.
Kate: He's so excited. And then Buffy asks him basically what's going on, and her confrontation is, "And believe me when I say, a wrong answer will cost you all your points." And Giles is so proud in that moment.
Kristin: Yeah, "my slayer."
Kate: "My slayer."
Kristin: [laughing] "She's my slayer!" So, this is kind of where we have to come to a decision, I think. I mean, we've seen Joyce and Giles. And you make a good point. Is it- can it be counted as sexual tension if it is consummated? And especially if it's consummated on the hood of a police car.
Jenny: Guys! It's still tension!
Kate: There's definitely still tension, and I think, when we come back around at the end of the episode-
Jenny: [laughing] There's a different tension.
Kate: That shot could take the crown for sexual tension.
Kristin: I'm going Joyce and Giles.
Kate: Yeah, I think it's definitely more obvious, but I do think, like, you know, a shiny silver medal to Ethan and Giles. Not only for this episode, but for their long-running rivalry-slash-friendship-slash-if they just made out they would feel so much better about each other.
Jenny: Twenty great years.
Kristin: Totally! I mean, listen, in the Sexual Tension Award Showdown of Season 2 where we narrowed it down to one couple- or sorry, I'm so sorry! One pairing of two or more people, because the thruple did win, Giles and Ethan were up in the running in the finals.
Kate: They are incredible together. And they have so much tension, and you know there's so much more. The way Ethan says, "Ripper"! [laughter] Like, c'mon.
Kristin: The polar opposite of the way Snyder says, "Ripface." Which is what he calls- [laughter]
Kate: Oh my god, when Snyder tries to hit on Joyce, and she just rolls her eyes and gets up. "So are you two like, uh, going steady?"
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: God! Classic Joyce, and, like, classic- I just feel like this is a very, like, feminist moment for Joyce, where she's like, "This guy, I'm over it. Goodbye." And I feel like it's very Buffy. You know?
Kate: It's very, yeah, I liked seeing the parallels between young Joyce and Buffy. It's very good.
Kristin: Yes! Hell yes. So, my next note- we learn about Laconis? Is that-
Kate: Larconis. Larconis, I'm pretty sure.
Kristin: And my note is just, "Oh my god, babies." Because everyone in the room- I've only seen the episode, like, three times, but you two have seen it, like, 400 times. Everybody forgot about babies.
Kate: I always forget about the babies! [Kristin laughs]
Jenny: I remember the babies only 'cause we just watched this episode like, a week ago.
Kristin: I still forgot. Again.
Kate: I always remember about two-thirds of the way into the episode. I'm like, "Oh, right, the baby thing!"
Jenny: They just seem so- it's just, like, who ca- I mean-
Kristin: It's like they needed some reason to give them the chocolate, but I would've personally been totally fine if there was no reason. Like, if Trick and the mayor just wanted to see the adults go crazy.
Kate: And I feel like they were trying to one-up "Halloween" because, I mean, Ethan just does that just to do it, you know, to serve Janus and his chaos god. They're like, "No, we should probably have a reason this time. What if we had a snake that ate babies?"
Kristin: A snake! [laughter] I know we're not going in order right now, but you said it, and I'm just-
Kate: I'm sorry, but-
Kristin: No, it's fine! Can we just-
Jenny: Is that the first computer-generated image ever? Ever made?
NOTES: [laughter]
Kristin: Historically speaking!
Kate: I was gonna say, not on the show, but yes. In time, I'm quite sure.
Kristin: In the evolution of snakes, it was like, the snake from that brick phone, you know? The snake, you know, the game snake?
Kate: Yeah, like the old snake game.
Kristin: That was version one, and this was version two of the snake.
NOTES: [Jenny laughs]
Kate: Yeah, they took this directly from the TV show Reboot, that's how good the graphics were. That's a little Canadian humor for you all.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: All of the Canadian listeners were like, "Ha ha ha!" [laughs]
Jenny: Both of our Canadian listeners.
Kate: "I love that show!" Me, too. Me, too.
Kristin: So, Snyder has taken taekwondo at the Y, is that why I've written that line down?
Jenny: Yeah, he demonstrates some of the taekwondo, and then-
Kristin: But some other people have weapons, or- would you consider them weapons?
Jenny: Okay, so, first, right-
Kristin: [laughing] Kate can't wait.
Jenny: Ethan, like, gets a crowbar and is about to hit Buffy, and then Giles pulls the gun on him-
Kate: Oh, yeah, Giles has a gun! Right, 'cause he took it from the cop.
Kristin: Right. And here's the thing: Giles has the gun in the back of his pants, Buffy puts it in the back of her pants, and I always see people do this-
Jenny: Ooh. And then it just disappears.
Kristin: Sure, fine. But I'm just, like, I'm always-
Jenny: Uncomfortable, right?
Kristin: I would shoot my butt. [laughter] I'm just saying!
Kate: Who wouldn't?
Kristin: Like, for sure, I would have a shot butt if I did that.
Kate: There are guns so rarely in Buffy that it's always, like, really jarring.
Kristin: Yeah, I hate- I hate it.
Jenny: Yeah, it's always so… weird.
Kate: Super bad. But I'm glad it is moved on from very quickly.
Kristin: Yeah, it disappears.
Kate: And then, my goodness, how are we gonna restrain Ethan?
Jenny: How the heck?
Kate: What are we going to do?
Jenny: Does anybody have, like, a rope, or some duct tape?
Kristin: Yeah, like, anything to restrain people?
Jenny: Giles, do you have anything? Snyder, do you have anything?
Kate: Well golly, Joyce has something, doesn't she? [Jenny laughs]
Kristin: What does she have, and where is it?
Kate: Well, she's got a pair of handcuffs that are attached to the back of her pants. [Jenny laughs]
Kristin: Joyce! Fifty shades of Joyce. [laughter]
Kate: That she pulls out with the best, like, shit-eating grin. [laughter] And Buffy is just like, "Ugh… I… no, no." If there's any moment in the episode where Buffy just like, cannot handle it, it is this.
Kristin: And this makes sense!
Kate: Of course!
Kristin: I will tell you what, I don't wanna know those things.
Jenny: You know, one time-
Kate: I do.
Kristin: Yeah, one time, Jenny?
Jenny: Kristin's parents came to visit us in Brooklyn.
Kristin: This is a true story.
Kate: Oh my goodness.
Jenny: And there we were, just hanging out on an afternoon, and Kristin and her dad decided to go pick up sandwiches for lunch. And Kristin's mom and I were talking, and it was then that she decided would be the perfect time to tell anyone, namely, me, the only person in the apartment, that she had just finished reading the entire Fifty Shades of Grey trilogy, and we had [high-pitched voice] a lovely discussion! About how she really enjoyed them!
Kristin: My mom, just for-
Jenny: And how she had to ask Pete what certain words meant! It was very comfortable.
Kate: So beautiful.
Kristin: For contextual understanding, and I'm not being dramatic for effect here, my mom has never read a book. [Kate laughs] Ever. The only books the woman has read are the books, like, "The 365 Things You Can Read, And You Read One a Day."
Jenny: The Bible? She's read the Bible.
Kristin: She's not read the Bible!
Jenny: I would- I- okay. [laughter]
Kristin: No, no, no. She's never read a book. She read the entire Fifty Shades of Grey series. And I was an older person being, like, my mother has never read a book. So, you know what? It's too much information about my mom on a podcast, but here it is.
Jenny: Sorry.
Kate: My conversation with my mom about Fifty Shades was basically, that- my mom and I are fairly- we could talk about most things. And she read them or at least the first one, and my mom grew up in a Mormon household, and basically her only commentary was like, "This is not very well-written, but it is what Mormons think sex is." [laughter]
Kristin: What a- that review should be on the back of the book.
Jenny: [laughing] Oh my god.
Kate: She was just like, "Some of these things are very ridiculous." Yes, I would say so.
Kristin: Oh my gosh, wow. Wow. So, right, so… handcuffs. And, you know, your theory about when they had sex is pretty legit, actually, thinking about the fact that she has the handcuffs.
Kate: I'm saying!
Jenny: They were at Giles' apartment, though, that whole afternoon. "Making a plan."
Kate: That's true.
Kristin: That's true, but they had the handcuffs after the cop car, so maybe there were multiple times.
Jenny: Maybe she just swapped them from the cop car to just- in case they would come in handy.
Kristin: Oh, for later?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Well, my next note, I think this is where we go next, 'cause my next note is, "God, there's always monks in a fucking basement." [laughter]
Jenny: Aren't there? With a snake! With a giant snake!
Kristin: Fuckin', here we are again! With monks in a basement trying to eat babies. I don't even know how it relates to the patriarchy, but I feel like we should play the damn jingle.
NOTES: [JINGLE] [spooky music] The patriarchy! Mwa ha ha ha…
Jenny: I will say that, uh, "baby sacrifice" seemed to be equal opportunity in terms of gender binary. [Kristin laughs] Two pink blankets, two blue.
Kristin: Two pink, two blue? Yeah, although the color-coding is still the patriarchy.
Jenny: Gross.
Kristin: So, there you have it. Also, the babies are on wheels, which is really convenient. Like, the babies get put in, like, this- like, it's a Larconis?
Kate: Larconis, yes. Which means, I think it means "glutton," isn't that what Giles says? He remembers when they're in the hospital.
Kristin: That's right. And it's like, Larconis has a special feeding trough that's like four babies wide, you know? It's like they're partitioned for babies.
Kate: He's only gotta do it every… how many years? Every couple decades or something?
Jenny: Right, every like 30 years, they said, and listen. I don't mean to like, whatever, but like, if your name means "glutton" and you feed every 30 years, and you're a snake of that size, and what you eat is four human babies? I think you need to, like, change your name or think-
Kate: Rebrand.
Jenny: I mean.
Kate: I'm sayin'. Not much of a glutton considering some other villains that they come across in the sewer at different points in this program.
Kristin: Right? The other snake had to eat full women! [laughter] So, I'm just saying!
Kate: Yeah! It's kind of a wussy snake.
Kristin: Yeah! Do you think that there's a snake in every basement? You know there's alleys everywhere. Is there a snake in every basement in Sunnydale?
Kate: Like a giant snake?
Kristin: Yeah. They all have like, a different lore.
Kate: It is really, really similar to the end of "Reptile Boy." Even with the terrible computer graphics.
Kristin: And the mayor has- I just feel like we're learning about the mayor and we've learned the mayor likes hand-sanitizing. We learned the mayor likes having little, tiny heads in his cabinet. We also are learning that the mayor is really good at business, 'cause like-
Kate: He cares about the city, too.
Kristin: Yeah! He's like, on the phone, in the fucking sewers, and he's like, calling for tomorrow's clean up already down there.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah. "I'm concerned about exposed gas pipes." Little did he know how much concern he should actually have!
Kristin: Oh my gosh.
Kate: I will say that after the handcuff note that I took, there are only two more lines in my note file.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: [laughs] You just decompose after that.
Kate: I was like, oh the snake's here, who cares. But the only other two lines are, "Mr. Trick again with that good suit," and then the last one is just, "Giles and Joyce fucked!" [laughter] And that's it. Because most everything of import has happened at this point.
Kristin: Has already happened for you.
Kate: Except for the last 30 seconds or so.
Kristin: Right, right, right. Yeah, I gave a shout out in my notes to Buffy's pipe move. I felt it was brave of her to just grab a pipe and assume that gas would be coming out of it and to light it on fire.
Kate: Doesn't she actually, like- I feel like she protects her hands when she does it. Or like, wraps something around them, you know? 'Cause otherwise you would just burn your hands off.
Jenny: Oh, wow. Look at her go.
Kristin: Yeah, she's quick-thinking. And I also love the Trick line, when he's like, "You and me, girl." Like, you know?
Kate: Yeah. And then she says the thing about, like, "They can't ever just leave, they always gotta say something." [laughter] Which is hilarious coming from her, who always has to say something!
Kristin: Yeah, quip master.
Kate: Exactly. Quip pro quo, Buffy.
Jenny: Wow. Wow wow wow.
Kristin: Woooowww.
Kate: I'll take my medal anytime.
Kristin: Yes. [laughs] So right, so we've defeated Larconis, the adults are sadly going back to normal. I really wish that this became a theme and that we got, like, one episode every season where the adults turned into teenagers. You know?
Kate: Agreed.
Jenny: Wow. Yeah, that would be pretty great.
Kristin: Wouldn't it be great?
Kate: With all of the new characters that get added in the universe?
Kristin: Yes!
Kate: Yeah, it'd be very good.
Kristin: Just like, you know, Buffy gets a birthday and the adults get Teenage Day.
Kate: Mm-hmm. Just like, "Ugh, this again!"
Kristin: Yeah. [laughter] So before we learn about Kate's favorite plot point in the entire series- [Kate laughs] we get Snyder, who is telling them that they have to clean up graffiti off of the lockers. And, of course, one of the adult teenagers has spray painted, "KISS ROCKS!" on the lockers. And this is a very- it's just a very sweet, endearing moment where Willow is like, "Why would anybody wanna…" You know?
Jenny: Yeah. Willow.
Kristin: Willow.
Kate: It's very good. I liked that joke a lot the first time I saw it.
Kristin: Right? It's just good. So anyhow, then we get to your favorite moment, Kate. And here we are at the end. Does it get- is there any… could you get any hornier than this episode?
Kate: [laughs] Ya know, I don't know if I could. I'm trying to like, scan my mind- there's definitely lots of other hot parts of the show. There's other sexy things that happen over the course of Buffy, but this admission- this episode, Giles and Joyce, I mean, I knew it was good when I watched it the first time. But I was like, too young to really understand or, like, you know. Like, my mom was into Giles. Like, I was like, "Oh, he's cool, I don't really get this." But now, as a 29-year-old, I'm like, yeah. Yeah, I'm down. This is good. But yes. The episode ends with Buffy walking out. They're all discussing, boy, what a night. What a crazy occurrence.
Kristin: What a crazy night!
Kate: Walks out towards the dinged car, which Joyce says must've, like, Buffy assures me happened while fighting evil? [laughs]
Jenny: They're all doing the Xander thing, where they're like, "We don't remember what happened!"
Kristin: Right!
Kate: And then she's like, "At least I got to you boy-" [makes sputtering noises] See? I can't even talk about it! "At least I got to you both before anything happened." And then Giles and Joyce do this like- "oh… yeah. Of course."
Jenny: "Totally!"
Kate: 'Cause they boned!
Kristin: 'Cause they boned.
Jenny: Wow.
Kate: I'm sorry!
Kristin: Wow!
Kate: And it's so strange because, like, it doesn't really come up much again. Kind of? I don't- I mean, you'll get there. You'll get there. But it's pretty wild! Like, it's pretty wild that that happens. Those are basically Buffy's parents.
Kristin: Right?
Kate: Yeah!
Kristin: And parents- if we know anything about parents-
Jenny: It's that they never have sex.
Kristin: Never.
Kate: No, it's against the law. It's a crime.
Kristin: No, only to have the baby, and then never again.
Kate: I actually wrote at one point, one of my notes is, "This is a crime. I am a criminal." [laughter] Because of my reactions to something that was happening in the episode.
Jenny: Great.
Kristin: Kate, I mean, having you on this episode. We've been waiting for so long for this to happen.
Kate: I hope that it was worth the wait.
Kristin: Oh, it was worth it.
Jenny: Most definitely.
Kristin: It was well worth it. Thank you for being here with us, for sharing your passion for "Band Candy" with us all.
Kate: Thank you so much for allowing me. [laughter] I await my third dousing of the evening. [laughs]
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: Well, before we get there, we should probably wrap up but keep you here with us so that we can all howl together, because I really think you need a howl-out, Kate. [laughs]
Jenny: If anybody needs it, it's Kate! [Kate sighs] Can you please tell the good people at home where they can find you on the internet or in the real world or wherever you might be doing stuff?
Kate: Not very much left in the real world, I'm done con season, so- so happy to be done con season. [laughter] You can find me on the internet in all kinds of places, mostly on Twitter @kateleth, on this podcast very frequently, and I recently, for my birthday, purchased myself the domain name bisexual.zone, which leads you-
Jenny: Whaaaaat?!
Kristin: Oh. My. God.
Kate: Which leads you to my Patreon-
Kristin: [yelling] Oh my god!
Jenny: [yelling] Wow!
Kate: Where you can subscribe to my comics. I am so proud of myself.
Kristin: What a purchase! Bisexual.zone! Incredible.
Kate: $30! Bisexual.zone, I own it, it is mine. I have to redo all of my business cards to include it.
Kristin: I am so- how am I supposed to talk about my website after this shit? [laughs] I gotta get a-
Kate: I don't know. But you can find pretty much everything there, and pretty much everything at kateleth.com. Yeah, that's me.
Kristin: Great. Great.
Jenny: Well, I'm Jenny Owen Youngs and, when I'm not watching Buffy, I'm writing songs and recording songs and sometimes, performing songs! You can see me do just that at Swedish American Hall this Saturday, October 21st, in San Francisco. You can also learn more about me at jennyowenyoungs.com/buffering, and you can give me a shout on Twitter, @jennyowenyoungs.
Kristin: I'm Kristin Russo, and when I'm not talking about Buffy the Vampire Slayer, I am working to help LGBTQ humans and their families and loved ones. You can find out more about my work over at my website, kristinnoeline.com. That's K-R-I-S-T-I-N-N-O-E-L-I-N-E. You can also follow me on Twitter or Instagram at that same name, Kristin Noeline!
Jenny: [singing] "And on that farm she had a Noeline, N-O-E-L-I-N-E!" Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram @bufferingcast, and you can always drop us an email at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin: It's true, it's true! Also, you can support us. You can rate and review us over on iTunes, it helps people find us and we love you for doing it. You can also support us on our Patreon page, you can find that on bufferingthevampireslayer.com by clicking on "Patreon." Reminder that we do have just a handful left of lyric sheets for the month of October, so if you go on over there and click on a lyric sheet, buy one for yourself, buy one for a gift for somebody else. We will handwrite those lyrics for you, and all of the proceeds this month go to the NW Network in Seattle and Hispanic Federation helping on the ground in Puerto Rico.
Jenny: And you know, it's October, and depending on where you live, you might be experiencing a chill in the air. We have a prescription that we'd like you to get filled at your local bufferingthevampireslayer.com. It is for "AWOOO!" knit hats, "AWOOO!" baseball tees, "Smash the Demon Lizard Patriarchy" hoodies, and a whole bunch of other business.
Kristin: Yes, also, Halloween's right around the corner, so if you wanna dress up as a Buffering the Vampire Slayer fan, we have everything you need for that costume!
Jenny: We really do! Thank you again to the amazing Kate Leth for joiningus this evening! Until next time:
Jenny, Kristin, and Kate: AWWOOOOOO! [Jenny performs "Band Candy" off the album "Songs from Season Three" by Buffering the Vampire Slayer] I've fought demons and monsters But this one scared me right out my wits Evil, haunted-ass chocolate Made my mom and my watcher kiss Ba-band ba-band Ba-band ba-band Ba-band ba-band candy Ba-band ba-band Ba-band ba-band Ba-band ba-band candy, yeah This is disturbing, and I'm very upset. I may never recover. Oh, god. Here come Principal Snyder Even worse when he's seventeen Though we didn't invite him He's hopping into the geek machine Ba-band ba-band Ba-band ba-band Ba-band ba-band candy Ba-band ba-band Ba-band ba-band Ba-band ba-band candy, yeah Okay, Buffy, focus, focus, focus. You've got a lot of therapy in your future, but that's not the issue. Right now, you've gotta defeat some evil. Ethan is back in town Chaos is raining down And I think Giles is wearing eyeliner Help! Demon snake in the basement Eating babies like Cocoa Puffs Jesus Christ, oh my god, Mom Why the hell did you have handcuffs? Ba-band ba-band Ba-band ba-band Ba-band ba-band candy Ba-band ba-band Ba-band ba-band Ba-band ba-band candy Ba-band ba-band Ba-band ba-band Ba-band ba-band candy Ba-band ba-band Ba-band ba-band Ba-band ba-band candy, yeah