Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 0.04: Welcome to the Mailbag Vol. 3
Jenny: Oh hello, friends. Just a couple quick reminders before we get started on today's Mailbag Episode. On Sunday March 5th, Kristin and I will be live on Stageit.com/bufferingcast, performing all twelve songs from Season 1 and some of the new songs. So if you didn't get a chance to come to our Season 1 celebration in Brooklyn in December, or you did and you just can't wait to see it again, join us for a live performance of all those songs. Hooray! Stageit.com/bufferingcast.
Kristin: Yes! Did you say it's at 1pm?
Jenny: Sure didn't.
Kristin: Well, I'm saying it.
Jenny: Thank you.
Kristin: It's at 1pm on March 5th, Pacific Time. 1pm Pacific. That is a Sunday, so hopefully you'll be around.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Five short, short days later, on March 10th, we are going to be doing a Buffywatch of Welcome to the Hellmouth on our Facebook page. Which is just Facebook.com/bufferingcast, because it is the 20th anniversary of the first episode of Buffy airing in the US on the WB. And we're doing it at 8pm Eastern Standard Time. I say Eastern 'cause, like, we're all putting our minds in the fact that the East Coast saw it before the West Coast. So we're on your time clock, East Coast. Truth be told, I'm always on your time clock. But it'll be 8pm Eastern Time, 5pm Pacific Time. We will all join together on Facebook, hitting play on the episode together, you at home and us at home, and we'll watch it together as one. It's gonna be so fun. If you've never used Facebook Live before, you'll be able to chat with us in the stream. It's so fun, I'm so excited. Jenny's excited. Welcome to the Hellmouth, holy shit. Woo!
Jenny: Yay!
NOTES: [THEME MUSIC]
Jenny: Hello and welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer! A podcast where we usually watch and discuss an episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer every week, but this week, we're doing something different. It's a mailbag episode.
Kristin: Woo!
Jenny: Welcome to it. Your questions, answered. Your statements, heard. [Kristin laughs] I'm Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: And I'm Kristin Russo, and yes, we're very excited to be doing a mailbag episode. We love hearing from you all and you send us questions, you send us information. You send us pictures of things that are wonderful. Like, one of you sent us- actually, we have to put this on the internet. One of you sent us pictures from being an intern on the set-
Jenny: Oh, hell yes!
Kristin: Of Buffy the Vampire Slayer so there's just a whole slew of amazingness in that email inbox. And we're gonna get to some emails today. We're actually doing two mailbag episodes. One that you're listening to, good job. And then the other is going to go to our patreon supporters at the $10 level or higher. So if you are a patreon supporter, look out. There's another mailbag episode coming your way. And in case you're panicked that you have asked a question and it will be on the mailbag episode that is only for our $10 patreon supporters, don't fret. If we have answered your question, you will get the link to also listen to that second mailbag episode. So that you never have to worry. [Jenny laughs] That we've answered your question and you will never get to hear it.
Jenny: A worry-free environment. That's what we're creating here.
Kristin: We are. So let's get right to it.
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: The first email that I would like to bring to light is that when we watched Season 2, Episode 1, I asked the question, "How long can you hang upside down before you die?" And someone did the research for me. Jeff H. wrote in to say, "Hanging upside down, I got 20 hours, but another says 24. I'd say go for 23 and see what happens." [laughing]
Jenny: I'd say, like, "Nooooo."
Kristin: Someone else actually sent… what's the name of the famous magician of our time? Not Houdini but our Houdini?
Jenny: David Copperfield?
Kristin: No, even more current than David Copperfield
Jenny: Penn and Teller. Oh, that other guy? That guy who's always doing stuff on TV?
Kristin: Yeah, he's like "I'm in Times Square in a bubble full of water, for six years"
Jenny: God, what is that guy's name? It's David something. Blaine. David Blaine.
Kristin: David Blaine. Somebody sent me a link to David Blaine hanging upside down for, like, days? But I'm sure that he… I don't know. This is why I shouldn't talk about it, 'cause that wasn't the email, Kristin. Stick to the script.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: But thank you, Jeff H. I will be- as soon as this episode ends, I'll just be putting myself upside down and we'll just see how this goes. [laughs]
Jenny: I can't wait to entertain myself for up to 23 hours and see what happens. Our next email is very helpful and informational and a light in myheart. Sarah W. wrote to us: "Spike smokes the same fictional brand of cigarettes as the cigarette-smoking man from the X Files. The brand is of course, Morley Cigarettes. Just a fun little Easter egg Joss Whedon put in there for the fans." Let me tell you what. I love this! It's my favorite! It's my favorite thing. I am a big X Files fan also. And as we all know, Brian Thompson, who plays Luke in the pilot episodes of Buffy, was also the alien bounty hunter in the X Files. And now we have another little piece of cross over. With these cigarettes, Morley Cigarettes. Great.
Kristin: Also, when I was younger I used to listen to the Barenaked Ladies and they have a song and they reference the smoking man. And now I'm on this podcast [Jenny laughs] so there's a link for you. That's all I got.
Jenny: It's really good. It's really, really good.
Kristin: That's all I got.
Jenny: That's very nice, thank you.
Kristin: [laughing] Okay, next, Lisa R. from Philly. I say that because Philly fans are letting us know that they are from Philly when they right in after, in our last mailbag episode, we talked about the fact that a lot of people wrote in from Philly. So now we have another, Lisa R. "I am such a huge fan of
Buffy and of your podcast. I have question: If you had to choose between being a vampire, a witch or the Slayer, capital S, which would you choose and why?" Jenny? I know my answer. Do you know your answer and then we can explain? Don't say it.
Jenny: Yes, I know my answer.
Kristin: Okay.
Jenny: But I also feel like I know your answer.
Kristin: Well… I was gonna say on the count of three we could both say our own answers but would you like to say what my answer is? At the same time as me?
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Okay, I'm gonna say one, two, three and then I'm gonna say the answer, okay? One, Two, Three! Witch.
Jenny: [in unison] Slayer! What?! [Kristin laughing] I didn't even think witch was gonna be in play. I thought at most, you might say vampire.
Kristin: No, I put a lot of thought into this.
Jenny: Wow. Tell me more
Kristin: Lisa R. from Philly and also my wife. I mean, those are two different people, I'm not married to Lisa R. from Philly. Yet. [Jenny laughs] Anyway, so I picked witch because I thought about it. Now the reason you probably picked slayer is because I often talk about my own struggles and align them with that of the slayer. I identify with the slayer a whole bunch. Perhaps that's why you guessed that but I thought you know what, the slayer, I already feel a lot of that pressure. You know? I feel a lot of pressure in my life, Buffy feels a lot of pressure. Slayers feel a lot of pressure, it's a lot. They're the chosen one, it's a big deal. It's a lot to carry. And vampires, as much as I'm obsessed with vampires and I love vampires, they live forever and it's kind of a pain in the ass. You know? Plus, they either have to kill a bunch of people or they have to have a soul and drink from cups of blood in the fridge. Which just doesn't sound satisfying to me. But a witch can really choose her destiny.
Jenny: Ohh.
Kristin: Like, I say her because I am a her, not because witches have to be hers. But as a witch, you get to choose what kind of magic are you gonna do? Evil magic, are you gonna do good magic? Are you just gonna say, you know what, I'm taking the week off. I'm not gonna do any magic this week.
Jenny: Okay, so witches have an agency that neither slayers nor vampires can choose.
Kristin: Precisely.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: That is why I choose witch. Plus, I already think I am a witch. Apparently, I think I'm a witch and a slayer so maybe I need to stop centering myself so much.
Jenny: Perhaps.
Kristin: In the narratives. [laughter]
Jenny: Well, I think you've made a great choice.
Kristin: Thank you, what is your choice?
Jenny: Well. My choice- ugh, I'm kind of torn. Here's the thing. The two things that don't appeal to you appeal to me, right? I'm interested in vampirism and I'm interested in slayerhood. And-
Kristin: Well, I didn't say they don't appeal to me.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: I just said-
Jenny: But in terms of picking, those are the two things that I'm, like, the most into.
Kristin: Okay.
Jenny: I really like-
Kristin: Why do you hate witches?
Jenny: I don't hate witches.
Kristin: Why do you hate witches?
Jenny: Again, I don't hate witches. [Kristin laughs] But I will tell you. I meant to say this the last time we talked about witches at length, right? I meant to talk about this and neglected to do so, so I'll do it now. And tell you that when I was, like, three, I had a dream…
Kristin: My eyes are so wide right now, just so everyone listening at home knows.
Jenny: That I was sleeping. I had a dream that I was sleeping-
Kristin: Okay…
Jenny: In bed and a witch came to the foot of my bed and lifted up the covers by my bare feet.
Kristin: Oh, no.
Jenny: And put a bucket of worms and creepy crawlies and spiders-
Kristin: Ohh. Oh, no.
Jenny: Down at the foot of the bed by my bare feet. And then I spent the next several months sleeping with my slippers on.
Kristin: Aww, to protect you from the worms?
Jenny: So- yes.
Kristin: Was it a stereotypical witch? Or did you just inherently know it was a witch?
Jenny: I think I just knew it was a witch, I don't really remember the visual. I just remember-
Kristin: That makes me think perhaps it was actually a witch.
Jenny: Perhaps.
Kristin: Like, if it was a stereotypical- if there was a lady with a green face and a pointy hat at the foot of your bed in your dream, I would've been like, totally a dream.
Jenny: Right. But you think this might not have been exactly a dream.
Kristin: I think it could've been something else. Not necessarily a witch at the foot of your bed but I think that, based on the fact that you were so young and you just had an inherent sense that this was a witch, that there's something more to it than it just being a dream.
Jenny: [exhales] Well! Either way.
Kristin: Either way!
Jenny: Either way, I think that has something to do with a natural disinclination to be interested in witchery. So what appeals to me about slayerhood is that it's righteous and that it's very- it really aligns with my Protestantism. Like, the work- the attitude towards work that's like embedded in my DNA, that one must put one's head down and do the right thing and just keep going until you can't possibly keep going anymore. There are no other options and no moments of rest. But then on the flip side, vampirism is, of course, the pure opposite of that, right? It's like, whatever you want, whenever you want it. Zero responsibilities. I mean, they're just living the life. With the exception of the fact that they have to kill people to survive, they are living the life.
Kristin: Wow, so this, for you, is the ultimate struggle between-
Jenny: My duality.
Kristin: Right, your good and evil. So which are you gonna choose?
Jenny: Vampire! [Kristin laughs] I'm tired of working! I'm so tuckered out.
Kristin: Alright, well you heard it here first. Jenny is a vampire, Kristin is a witch. All we need is a slayer.
Jenny: True.
Kristin: Well, we'll be looking for you. Well, actually, I'll be looking for you. Jenny will be hiding from you.
Jenny: Yes, exactly.
Kristin: [laughs] Okay, so the next email comes from Amanda B., who also agrees with me in curiosity, why can't you see a vampires clothing in a mirror? So she says, "This episode finally prompted me to look into it. This is from an interview with Joss as quoted in a book called 'Angel Volume 1,
Heroes and Guardian Angels.'" So this is the quote from Joss Whedon: "It's the same reason their clothes turn to dust. They have a sort of aura, sort of the energy around them is affected by them. We had one line and this is something that would've been useful in the first season that had to be cut, which was when Buffy asked why Angel appeared on film when there are mirrors and cameras and what not. And the answer is simply it's not physics, its metaphysics." And I was like, oh my god, that's such a great line, it covers everything. So this is really awesome, 'cause it actually, not only does it answer the question about why can't they see their clothes in the mirror. It also answers the question of why perhaps that vampire was able to be captured on film which was something that we just discussed in "Halloween."
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: So this is great, this cut line, it's not phytics [sic]- it's not physics.
Jenny: It's not phytics [sic], it's metaphytics. [sic]
Kristin: It's metaphytics. [sic] [laughing]
Jenny: Yeah, so vampires are like these little black holes moving across the Earth.
Kristin: And so when they're close-
Jenny: And affecting and gently unthreading the edges of the fabric of reality around them.
Kristin: Yeah, which like, begs the question, if Angel hugs Buffy really tightly, and stands in front of a mirror, will parts of her… [Jenny laughs] perhaps be unseen in the mirror?
Jenny: Wow, that is… now I…
Kristin: Now you wanna know, right?
Jenny: Yeah, yeah. When you started saying it, I was like, I don't like where this is going, but now I'm into it.
Kristin: Yeah, I just wanna know how powerful the vampires' auras are. You know?
Jenny: We need more answers.
Kristin: Yeah, we do.
Jenny: Our next email is from Lorraina I. "Hey there Kristin, hey there Jenny. First off, I love the show. You guys are the Buffy-obsessed friends that me and my best friend needed in high school. No one understood our love for the show." Lorraina, I- we understand your love.
Kristin: Everyone in fact listening to this right now, understands your love.
Jenny: Yes. You are not alone. They continue, "Anyway, since you've encouraged people to write in and comment about/correct things, I thought I'd throw in my two cents on a couple of things from Season 2, Episode 1. First of all, you guys mentioned Buffy's new hair cut in reference to Sarah Michelle Gellar being in Scream 2. She actually filmed I Know What You Did Last Summer immediately following Season 1 and before filming Scream 2. And her character, Helen gets her hair chopped off by the killer in the film, hence the new 'do."
Kristin: If you haven't seen-
Jenny: Spoilers for I Know What You Did Last Summer.
Kristin: [laughs] But I think you've missed your window. You don't get to call spoiler on us if you haven't seen that movie.
Jenny: Shh. Yeah.
Kristin: And really all that's spoiled is that Buffy's hair gets cut off. And that there's a killer.
Jenny: There is a killer, who knows what you did last summer.
Kristin: Yes and who knew what you did the summer before last.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: What are those sequels to that movie called?
Jenny: Yo, I'm not sure?
Kristin: Oh my god.
Jenny: I Still Know What You Did Last Summer?
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: I know what you did last summer again, again, again. I don't know.
Kristin: Yeah, those are them. The second thing that Lorraina I. wants to tell us is that- we talked about the height difference between Buffy and Angel versus Buffy and Xander and how it's not as weird with Angel for some reason. Lorraina writes, "I'm pretty sure I remember a fun fact that Sarah Michelle Gellar stood on phone books or raised platforms for most of her scenes with David Boreanaz. You'll notice you rarely see full body shots of them together where you can see their feet, and when you do, there's suddenly a much larger height difference."
Jenny: This is another X Files-related jam because Gillian Anderson and David Duchovny are very different heights. And they used very frequently what they called the Scully Box. Which was a little crate that-
Kristin: The Scully Box!
Jenny: Gillian Anderson would stand on top of when they had close up shots between her and David Duchovny. So that they wouldn't- so she wouldn't be talking to his solar plexus, basically.
Kristin: I move to call Buffy's height thing the Scully Box as well.
Jenny: Yes! Into it.
Kristin: If we ever talk about it again moving forward, we'll call it the Scully Box.
Jenny: Hell yeah!
Kristin: Yeah, 'cause I think Scully deserves to be, like, the Kleenex of height boxes. You know what I mean?
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: Great!
Jenny: Absolutely, that's a brand you can count on.
Kristin: Okay, so we're going to move into a more serious email now. Are you ready?
Jenny: I am!
Kristin: This is from AnGiles! The second time that we have had AnGiles on a mailbag episode.
Jenny: Hey again, AnGiles.
Kristin: So congratulations. If there was an award for being on twice, you have won it. I think the award is just being on the mailbag episode again.
NOTES: [laughing]
Jenny: Correct!
Kristin: AnGiles says, "I've been trying to get my partner into Buffy with mixed success. After watching most of Seasons 2-4 together, she enjoys parts of it but finds some parts problematic, especially the way sexual violence or demon violence with a strong allusion to sexual violence, is brushed off or treated as comedy material. And also with some of the ways gender stereotypes are reinforced and women characters weakened and sexually objectified. Also with Xander being the- all caps- fucking worst stereotypical whiny 'nice guy.' All of these are themes that you two have talked about so my first question is, how do you deal with all of that and still love the show as much as you do? Because I love it so much despite all of the problematic stuff and I can't explain why or how."
Jenny: [sing-songy] Great question alert.
Kristin: This is a great question. [laughs] Is that your great question alert jingle?
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: This is a fantastic question and in a very timely fashion, we actually have just received a gift, a physical gift, from Jess, who sent us her copy of a book called Joss Whedon and Race. It's an assortment of critical essays that were edited by Mary Ellen Iatropoulos and Lowery A. Woodall III. It's brand new, I think it was released in 2016 and we have not had the chance to read the whole thing yet. But I did start to read it and was delighted when one of the first things that I highlighted, I think, serves as a really brilliant answer to this question. This book is having this discussion around racial justice, but I think that this quote is useful for this question that AnGiles has posed to us. And so, the book reads, "It may help to think of this book's work as an in-depth academic extension of investigation of implicit bias, along the lines of 'your fave is problematic,' in that we approach this book's work believing 'the fact that your fave is problematic isn't a big deal. The big deal is if you ignore it.'" And that last bit is taken from an essay on Medium.com by Ijeoma Oluo, which was called "Admit It - Your Fave is Problematic." And so I love this quote and I also- it really was just so timely with AnGiles' question to us. And I think that what's really fascinating about our opportunity here to look at this show and to say like, "Hmm, what does this mean? Why is this like this?" And you know, several of you wrote in to us talking about our analysis of "Inca Mummy Girl" and the conversation around the problematic stuff in that, surrounding race- is that if we're looking at it, if we're using it as a lens to observe some stuff about our world, we can still love parts of the show. I think that the important part, right, is to be recognizing what is problematic about it.
Jenny: Right, cultivating that awareness is really key in responsible viewership, I guess.
Kristin: Yeah, and there's a quote, if you don't mind.
Jenny: I don't mind.
Kristin: There's a quote right before it it that I think is pretty amazing too. That talks about their discussion of the Whedonverse, rather than Joss Whedon specifically. Which I'm gonna read-
Jenny: Please!
Kristin: 'Cause I think it's important with relation to this conversation. So the book reads, "There are limits to holding Whedon solely responsible for Whedonverse content, due in no small part to the highly collaborative nature of most projects we refer to as Whedonverses. This is not a discussion about Joss Whedon as an individual, nor about any one writer, director, producer, actor. It's about the works themselves, the power they have over us and the power we have over them. By demonstrating critical race theory as a viewer's tool for social justice, we hope to turn the conversations away from individual blame and back onto the issues of race and representation, onto the larger cultural patterns of oppression in which our beloved characters inadvertently participate. Even when they don't mean to, especially whenthey don't mean to. Because as we and our contributors demonstrate: in the unintentional, we can see the institutional."
Jenny: Whew!
Kristin: Right?
Jenny: Praise.
Kristin: I'm really excited about this book, everyone. I'm going to be reading it and probably pulling some of it into our conversations 'cause I think it's- I mean, it's already fascinating and it's already helping me to understand some of the feelings that I have but I couldn't put words to. Which is really the beauty of writing and art, is that it gives a voice to the things we can't express ourselves. So I think you and I, Jenny, we sit in here and we're like, "we love this show and there's problems but we're confused." Which is kind of what AnGiles was getting at. And thankfully, we have these wonderful people and editors who've put this together that I think are illuminating some of the power that we have over this. And the power that we have in looking at it and saying, well, what's in it and what does it mean that that's here? What does that mean that we've watched how many episodes now of Buffy the Vampire Slayer and we've seen almost all white people? Right? How is that reflecting what is institutional in our society and what does it mean? So AnGiles, perhaps that will help you a little bit in opening up a conversation with your partner. Because I do think that you can love something and still say there are parts of it that are problematic.
Jenny: Yes. Also, I think it's important to keep in mind that everybody has different limits and boundaries when it comes to their comfort level around this stuff, right? Everybody's experiencing art and film and TV and music and books through their own personal lens, through the filter of their individual experience.
Kristin: Right. So not everyone needs to feel like it's okay that it's problematic and they can watch it.
Jenny: Exactly. Kristin and I started watching The Walking Dead and, around Season 3, she was like, "I'm out. I cannot handle the gore."
Kristin: It was so gorily violent.
Jenny: And it just disturbed you and you were like, "Okay, I have to put up a boundary, this is not for me anymore." Whereas I could watch that all day. [Kristin laughs] But when we were watching-
Kristin: All day?
Jenny: Well. But then when we started watching Making A Murderer, we got four or five episodes in, and it was me, the person who loves true crime and who loves reading Wikipedia articles about serial killers, who said, whoa, this is affecting my soul. I can't watch these people be thrown about by a criminal justice system malfunctioning in a way that they don't even know they're being taken advantage of. This is way too sad and way too crushing. To me, that was like seeing a lot of gore.
Kristin: Yeah and I think, right, it depends on your personal life experience, your identity and how that's shaped you over time. And it can also be at different points in your life, you know? You could have a time in your life when it's really hard for you to watch a particular thing and at a different time in your life, you're like, "Actually, this isn't so hard for me to watch right now."
Jenny: Totally.
Kristin: So I think being sensitive to that is really important when we talk about, "Well, but why can't you just love it?" It's like, well, for some people, they can't and that's okay too.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Okay, so shifting out of the serious space, though that was really fun. I enjoyed that conversation. I thought we could talk for a second about the fact that we've received several notes now from people who let us know that their children are just loving the songs from Season 1.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: It's really exciting, so I'm gonna read an email that literally just came through just today. From Amy D. who says, "Since the songs from Season 1 have been in heavy rotation in my home for the last couple of months, I regularly receive requests from my four-year-old daughter forsuch songs as: Welcome to the He-Ma, It's Harvest Time, Amy's Mom, There Was a Big Mess in Sunnydale, and Just Keep Farting. [laughter] I love being able to share Buffy with her even though it will be many years before she can watch the show. Now we just have to get her little brother on board." So that's fun from Amy D. And then Sierra V. sent us a note as well. "My almost three-year-old son David and I have been loving your songs from Season 1. In fact, today I was finally able to record him singing the song he has dubbed his favorite. I've attached it here for you." So let's listen to three-year-old David's version of There's A Demon on the Internet.
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: What's the actual name of that song?
Jenny: I Robot, You Jane.
Kristin: I Robot, You Jane.
NOTES: [Child singing, "There's A Demon on the Internet"]
Jenny: Oh my god!
Kristin: Yeah, that slayed us. Get it?
Jenny: I get it. [Kristin laughs] I'm with you.
Kristin: Also, Jenny, I don't know if you have seen as much as I have seen, but after we did Inca Mummy Girl-
Jenny: About 7,000 people wanted us to know that they knew how Ampata knew [Kristin laughs] that Ampata was arriving at the bus station.
Kristin: [laughing] What a sentence!
Jenny: Thank you.
Kristin: They wanted us to know that they knew [Jenny laughs] how Ampata knew that Ampata had arrived at the bus station, I think is what you just said.
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: Yes, a lot of people let us know that, of course, silly fools, Ampata knew, because Ampata had made many mentions of the fact that she could hear what was going on around her when she was mummified. So she was listening when they had that conversation over the sarcophagus.
Jenny: Wow. Do you know what this reminds me of?
Kristin: What?
Jenny: [purr noise] Did you ever watch Tales from the Crypt?
Kristin: Yes, but not a lot of them. Why?
Jenny: There was one- I would watch Tales from the Crypt at my dad's house 'cause he had HBO. And I would stay up late after my parents went to sleep and I would secretly watch Tales from the Crypt and there was one episode where a guy dies but he can still- you're, like, in his head and you can hear his thoughts-
Kristin: I think I remember this.
Jenny: But he can still experience and feel and see everything that's going on while he's being autopsied and prepared for burial and stuff.
Kristin: Ugh. That's always- maybe that episode or just in the collective consciousness of our generation, I feel like made me afraid and has made other people afraid of going under. Like, for an operation or whatever. That there's this huge fear that you will be able to feel stuff, but you won't be able to say, "Help." Right?
Jenny: No! Blegh.
Kristin: Yeah, sorry, horrible. This has taken a horrible turn.
Jenny: Oh God. Okay.
Kristin: Let's quickly veer this car to another course.
Jenny: Yes, yes. Next email!
Kristin: This is actually- so this is Jeff H. I don't know if you remember Jeff H. from the beginning whose- the entire content of Jeff H.'s original email was- the subject was "Hanging upside down," the body was, "I got 20 hours, another says 24, I'd say go for 23 and see what happens." Laughing emoji. This next email from Jeff H.-
Jenny: Subject line: Transylvania. Email body: Is not a country. It is part of Romania, LOL. [laughing] Thank you, Jeff!
Kristin: Jeff H., I love your brevity. Your-
Jenny: You just cut right to the core of things
Kristin: To the pointedness. Yes. So sorry, Transylvania. Sorry, Romania.
Jenny: No offense. Our next email comes from Rachel B. who writes, "I wanted to respond to the conversation you were having in Some Assembly Required. You were discussing night shoots and the cemetery with Rhea and Cameron. I'm pretty sure that while they did build a cemetery in Season 2 on the WB lot, it was outdoors in the parking lot. So any night shoots in the graveyard, while not on location technically, did take place at night. Looking into it further, they continued to do some location shooting in a local L.A. cemetery, because the one on the lot was fairly small and would not accommodate certain shots."
Kristin: There you have it.
Jenny: The scoop!
Kristin: The more you know!
Jenny: The cemetery scoop.
Kristin: And that's helpful, because I think the reason we were talking about it was because we were interested in the lighting. Cameron and Rhea specifically, I think, were intrigued about it looking like nighttime and was it nighttime and they were outside, or what was going on there? So…
Jenny: Yeah, I remember reading or maybe hearing in the commentary tracks or something, recurring theme, "we shot until 4 or 5 in the morning. We had very long days, late shoots."
Kristin: Yeah. Working hard! A slayer's job is not easy.
Jenny: No!
Kristin: Did you have a joke you wanted to make? You looked at me like you had a funny joke.
Jenny: Yeah, I had- like, 75 Dad jokes came into my mind and left very quickly.
Kristin: [laughs] Great. Okay, so next from Grace P. "How does Angel shave?" Grace says, "Hey there, Jenny and Kristin N-O-E-L-I-N-E."
Jenny: Spelled out phonetically.
Kristin: Spelled out phonetically. "I was listening to Buffering a couple of episodes ago on a long drive back from a gig when your question on the mechanics of Angel shaving and how it's done without a reflection got me overthinking. Is the answer that vampires' hair doesn't grow? Hair growth is presumably a living bodily function like breathing, so it would make sense that it wouldn't happen in the undead. I can't remember from my extensive watching of Buffy a time that Angel's hairstyle changed in all those years, unintentional burn."
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: "But his and Spike's hair and beard situations are depicted as pretty different when they were alive. Even as Spike's hair changes in later years it doesn't actually appear to get any longer." So.
Jenny: Okay, so this is interesting because… let's say, hypothetically that vampire hair does not increase in length, it ceases to grow, they do not need haircuts, they don't need to trim their nails. Angel's 241 years old!
Kristin: So?
Jenny: So imagine, I don't know, hair…
Kristin: Like, what would happen to hair?
Jenny: Lasting 240 years and also, think about how much hair- listen. Think about how much hair-
Kristin: It's not physics. It's not phytics [sp], Jenny, it's metaphytics. [sp]
Jenny: Metaphytics [sp], but how much hair comes out of your head in the course of a day? We're constantly shedding hair and it's constantly regrowing.
Kristin: Yeah, but probably their entire physical make-up has morphed.
Jenny: Their aura, as per earlier, just holds the hair in?
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Okay, I'm willing to accept it.
Kristin: Metaphytics!
Jenny: Meta… phytics.
Kristin: Alright, and I think the last email we have here that we're gonna answer on this episode is "How do I get my boyfriend to watch?" This question was submitted by Amanda G. Amanda G. says, "Jenny, I was curious, how did you get Kristin into this show? Buffy is my favorite show of all time, but I can't seem to get my boyfriend to watch it with me. We both love sci-fi and fantasy but he seems to have a prejudice towards Buffy. I always make people watch Hush, Season 4, Episode 10 as an intro, because it's the first episode I watched and it got me hooked. But it didn't work with him. Any suggestions on another episode I could show him? We've been together for years and nothing has worked!"
Jenny: Oh, Amanda G. Listen. I can't say- I don't know your boyfriend, but you might wanna think about what type of fantasy and sci-fi and horror he's the most into. Wherever you can find sort of like-
Kristin: Oh, like an overlap?
Jenny: Yeah, something that like- you gotta trick him.
Kristin: Like, maybe he's really into praying mantises, for example.
Jenny: Yes, exactly. I mean I think- I believe this show in particular really works as a complete unit, start to finish. But it was hard to get Kristin on board for Season 1 for the first watch-through, so we were able to start Season 2 because she had a foundational understanding of kind of who the characters were vaguely, and what their relationship was to one another, right?
Kristin: Right, right. And I know no one asked me but as-
Jenny: No one asked you!
Kristin: [laughs] No, but I think that as the person who did get sucked in to Buffy, for me, it was much more committing to the characters than anything I could have gotten from one episode.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: So I think what you need to do is bargain with your boyfriend.
Jenny: Yes, trade.
Kristin: Trade- I don't know, maybe he's dying for you to watch Firefly, like Jenny really wants me to watch Firefly.
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: I keep trying, it's not working out for me. But maybe he wants you to watch something else. And so you bargain with him, not for an episode, but I would say for a season.
Jenny: Or two.
Kristin: Well, let's not get carried away. I think you can cover major ground in a season. I think if you watch all of Season 2 and you still have no interest in the arc of these characters, then fine. Screw you. You know, but it's really- to me, it's about the arc more than it is about a single stand-alone episode.
Jenny: Yeah, as great as Hush is, or as great as certain stand-alone episodes I can think of are, there's nothing that- like, I can't imagine experiencing those episodes without going on the journey that comes before them.
Kristin: Yeah, because you don't know the characters and there's a certain- I think throughout the series, there's a certain cheesiness level to some of the dialogue and Buffy always has these quips and the monsters are not always- I mean, Hush is actually the most- I think the most terrifying demon, what do you call it? Whatever. But you know, there's a lot I think that you can pull out of it and standing alone would look a little silly or would look like, you know, oh, that wasn't really written well. But once you're in, once you're immersed in the whole arc of it, you know that that's actually the character, that's actually the way the character would talk.
Jenny: Right, right, right.
Kristin: It reads much more real than anything you're gonna do on a one-off.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: So, you gotta convince your boyfriend to watch all of season blank.
Jenny: You may need to make some kind of sacrifice, Amanda G.
Kristin: Yep.
Jenny: But we believe in you.
Kristin: Perhaps like breakfast in bed for every Sunday that he continues watching the series.
Jenny: Oooh!
Kristin: You know?
Jenny: Yeah, I like the weekly reinforcement reward thing.
Kristin: Yeah, and then- but then the moment that he becomes visibly engaged, no more breakfast in bed.
Jenny: No more breakfast.
Kristin: [laughs] God, your poor boyfriend, what a horrible emotional journey to go on.
Jenny: Sorry, boyfriend.
Kristin: Yeah. So that is a small selection of emails that we have received since our last mailbag episode. If you want to contribute to the conversation and perhaps be featured on a mailbag episode in the future, you can always email us at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Jenny: Heck yeah.
Kristin: And we do wanna let you know, we said this at the top of the episode, but we are doing a continuation of this episode, additional mailbag, where we're gonna be talking about all manner of things. Let's see what we have on the docket here. There's some conversation about Angel, the way that Angel is lit, conversation about religious versus secular, what's a better life? A secular-
Jenny: In the realm of the Buffyverse.
Kristin: Yeah, in the realm, but I think we're gonna talk about it outside of that.
Jenny: "I love you, Cordelia?" Ow!
Kristin: Some problematic Cordelia, some people have called us out on loving Cordelia perhaps a little too much! Gasp.
Jenny: Ha ha ha, how dare you.
Kristin: Conversation about the red paint on Buffy and Spike's face at the same time. And more, so if you wanna hear that episode, if you are a $10 patron of ours over on Patreon, Patreon.com/bufferingcast. That episode will be up for you this week as well.
Jenny: Hell yeah!
Kristin: And just to repeat, if any of those were your questions, we will also email you personally the link.
Jenny: For sure.
Kristin: Okay, we should probably remind them about a few things before we get to the Patrol Cat jingle.
Jenny: [singsong] Oh yeah!
Kristin: Did you know? Did you know that you were getting a Patrol Cat jingle on this here episode? Jenny, do you just wanna give them a brief overview of who Patrol Cat is in case-
Jenny: Just in case you have skipped over for some reason our previous discussions of patrol cat. Patrol Cat is a cat that lives in our neighborhood, doesn't seem to belong to anyone, is muscular and strong. And every day, just as the sun is sinking below the mountains- our house is on a corner and he comes up one street, hangs a sharp right, walks across our front steps and our little front doorway area, then he does another quick little L past my office window, stops and looks at me, and then continues on his journey. He's got a routine. He's on his way somewhere, it's very important. He doesn't have time to explain it to you, he's Patrol Cat!
Kristin: Wow. And the thing about Patrol Cat is that we've had so many people over and Patrol Cat has actually come by, but they have not seen Patrol Cat.
Jenny: Because the guest seating area is just far enough away from the window that he's usually just under window visibility for them.
Kristin: Or because Patrol Cat is a figment-
Jenny: [yelling] Patrol Cat is real!
Kristin: Patrol Cat is real. Actually, yesterday I was sitting at my desk and I saw Patrol Cat push his way into our neighbor's basement window? And I, like, panicked about it for a second-
Jenny: What a scamp.
Kristin: For Patrol Cat and for the neighbors, but then like, literally ten seconds later he must have been like, "this dank, dark hole that I have crawled into is not fun." And so he came back out. But I do want to let you know that I watched that whole thing through a cement wall with tiny little square holes, so I couldn't get a picture of it the whole time.
Jenny: 'Cause there's no proof.
Kristin: There's no proof of Patrol Cat. Anyhow. Before we go to the Patrol Cat jingle-
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: We wanna remind you that two things are happening at the start of March. Well, many things probably are happening at the start of March.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: But two specific to Buffering the Vampire Slayer. On March 5th, we will be doing a Stage It show, you can find out all the details at stageit.com/buffering.
Jenny: Cast.
Kristin: [laughing] Cast. Okay, stagit.com/bufferingcast. We'll be playing through all of Season 1 and some of the new Season 2 songs.
Jenny: Woooo!
Kristin: It's gonna be so fun.
Jenny: Hooray! And then on March 10th, we'll be doing a live synchronized Buffywatch of the pilot, Welcome to the Hellmouth, over on our Facebook page via Facebook live, Facebook.com/bufferingcast.
Kristin: Yes, I cannot think of a better way to celebrate the 20th anniversary of Buffy the Vampire Slayer's first episode airing.
Jenny: Hell yeah.
Kristin: And it's totally free on Facebook so put that in your calendars and come and join us.
Jenny: Please!
Kristin: And Welcome to the Hellmouth. A couple of other Patreon-specific things. We are doing our first Q&A video, so if you are a patron of ours at the $10 level, there's a post in Patreon or you can send us an email letting us know that you're a $10 patron. Send us any question you want about us, about our relationship to the series, about our relationship to each other, who knows. Ask us what you want.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah, whatever you want.
Kristin: And we'll be making a video for the start of March for all of you, answering those questions. Also wanna let you know- so many people have been dying to know what did Jenny Owen Youngs spoil?
Jenny: [laughs] Oh god.
Kristin: What did she spoil?
Jenny: What did she do? [through gritted teeth] What did she do?
Kristin: We must know. So many people have been pleading, like, "I've watched the whole series seven times, I know everything, you can't spoil it for me, please DM me, please email me." And I don't mean to take the light out of your suffering, but it has been kind of enjoyable. [laughter] I just love how excited everyone is that you fucked up.
Jenny: Yeah… I'm not.
Kristin: So for all of our patrons, a dollar, five dollars, ten dollars, no matter who you are, in the coming weeks, we're gonna edit together that spoiler that Jenny did. We'll take the moment from the show. We'll discuss what happened and we will say forty times before it starts, "there's a spoiler coming, aaaah!"
Jenny: Look away!
Kristin: Yeah, so you can get that over at Patreon again, any level of funding will get you that.
Jenny: Yeah, we'll get that up soon.
Kristin: Get to that sweet, sweet spoiler. So yeah, this has been great.
Jenny: Truly delightful.
Kristin: I've had a good time.
Jenny: Thanks so much for listening. I am Jenny Owen Youngs and you can follow me on Twitter, @jennyowenyoungs or listen to a playlist of non-Buffy songs that I've written, that I've curated just for you guys over at jennyowenyoungs.com/buffering.
Kristin: And I am Kristin Russo, you can follow me on twitter @kristinnoeline. As we've already discussed that is k-r-i-s-t-i-n-n-o-e-l-i-n-e. It is not "Kristin Online." Many of you have written to me to tell me that you think that it was Kristin Online, it is not. [fake upset sounding] Everyone thinks it's Kristin Online, it's not. It's Kristin Noeline! [laughs] Or you can read more about my work with LGBTQ+ communities over at everyoneisgay.com and mykidisgay.com.
Jenny: Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on Facebook and Twitter @bufferingcast.
Kristin: You can support our work by going over to patreon.com/bufferingcast and pledging a dollar, five dollars, ten dollars or you know, if you want to, a million. Nobody's gonna stop you.
Jenny: Oooh, a million dollars a month, that would really- we would be set.
Kristin: We would be good, I think.
Jenny: To just keep making this podcast.
Kristin: Oh yeah, we could do this podcast every day.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: We pledge that if anyone pledges a million dollars a month, we will do this podcast every day.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: Right?
Jenny: Holy shit.
Kristin: You have to really make a commitment though, you can't just do one million, then disappear forever. We'll only do it every day as the millions continue to roll in.
Jenny: Yes, yes. Twelve million dollars a year.
Kristin: [laughs] Not a bad salary for a podcast about Buffy the Vampire Slayer.
Jenny: No!
Kristin: Anyhow, if you don't have a million dollars or even a dollar, that's totally cool. Go on over to iTunes if you have a minute and leave us a review, especially if you like us, because we like the reviews that are good.
Jenny: [laughs] Well, you've said it all. I won't say anymore. Till next time-
Both: Awwwoooooo!
Jenny: [whispers] Mailbag.
NOTES: [Jenny performs The Patrol Cat Jingle] Here he comes, down the street Across our porch, on his little feet Looking around, checking the neighborhood Keeping us safe from the coyotes, from the coyotes Oh yeah, Patrol Cat, Patrol Cat is real