Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 3.17: Enemies
Kristin: Hey there everybody! Jenny has left for two weeks to go to New York, so you are going to be stuck with me for all of your intro needs. Never fear, I think I'm gonna do a great job. Okay, here we go! First of all, as you know, we donate the proceeds from our handwritten lyric sheets to a different organization that contributes to the greater good every month. Last month, we were able to donate $1000 to Time's Up, and we donated that money in Eliza Dushku's name. We've been so inspired by your continued conversation around Time's Up that, listen to this! We partnered with Kristin Thune, who you may know from being the wonderful designer of our logo, on a limited edition T-shirt that's now up in our store. The shirt reads, it's a Buffy quote, "Be the thing that monsters have nightmares about". I personally think we're doing a great job being the thing that certain monsters will continue to have nightmares about! The shirt will be up in our store for preorder beginning today and ending on February 21st. A hundred percent of the proceeds from that shirt will go to benefit Time's up! Thank you Kristin for helping us with this new fun project, and thank you to all of you for continuing to support this awesome work! Speaking of the greater good initiative that we do here, February is black history month! We're so excited to tell you that we're gonna be donating this month's proceeds to the Brown Boi Project. I'm going to tell you just a little bit about their mission. Launched in 2010, the Brown Boi Project works to transform the way that communities of colour talk about gender. They build the leadership economic self-sufficiency and health of LGBTQ people of color, pipelining them into the social justice movement. So, they're incredible, I've known of their work since I started this work, also in 2010, and I just think that what they're doing is so important. And this is certainly a very great month to donate to them. You can grab yourself a lyric sheet by going over to our website bufferingthevampireslayer.com, just click on the announcement bar at the top of that page. Thank you again for always helping us support the work of incredibly necessary organisations like the Brown Boi Project. A reminder to you all that our prom in Los Angeles has sold out but that we will be doing a free totally open to the public meetup at Griffith park on Sunday March 11th. Information about the prom and the meetup can be found at bufferingthevampireslayer.com/prom, pretty easy to remember. Remember also that if you'd like to hold your own prom inspired meetup, no matter how big or small, you can submit the details using the link found on the bottom of our prom page. Many of you have asked about streaming parts of the prom and we want you to know that we'll be using our Instagram stories in a really fun way that night, and we'll also be streaming several of the live performances for our patrons on our secret Facebook page. More information to come on all of that in the coming weeks, so stay tuned. If you want to be a part of that secret Facebook group of course you can be, at any level of giving on our patreon page and you can find that information at our website, just click on patreon. Okay, last thing! We're heading into a discussion of Enemies and we are so, so excited to be joined by Hrishikesh Hirway co-host of The West Wing Weekly and Song Exploder, oh my God are you so excited? And also, Hrishi creates music as One AM Radio. Yes! Okay, now that you know what to expect, buckle your seatbelts for the land of Enemies.
NOTES: [Theme song plays]
Jenny: Hello! And welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast where we are watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer one by one, spoiler-free. I am Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: And I am Kristin Russo, and this week we are talking about Season 3,
Episode 17: Enemies. Stay tuned at the end of this podcast every week for an original song, written by us, recapping the Buffy episode we are discussing.
Jenny: Enemies was, of course, written by Doug Petrie and directed by David Grossman, and originally aired on March 16, 1999, Saint Patrick's Day Eve.
Kristin: [laughs] This is the one, according to IMDB, where "as Faith attempts to seduce Angel and steal his soul, the Mayor summons a dark magic demon to finish the job."
Jenny: Jesus. This is also the one where we have a very special guest, so excitingto be sitting in a room with Hrishikesh Hirway, who is so tall and so gentle Hrishi: [Laughs]
Jenny: You may know him from his glorious podcasts, one is called Song Exploder and it is amazing, and one is called The West Wing Weekly? Maybe no "the", Jenny, come on. [Kristin laughs] And it's so great. And he co-hosted with Josh Malina, you don't need me to tell everyone every detail of your life and possibly misnomer your fucking West Wing podcast right now, that's not what you need. Please begin to speak so that I may stop.
Hrishi: You were right, there is a "the".
Jenny: UGH.
Hrishi: It's The West Wing Weekly.
Kristin: Oh wow, you were right the first time.
Jenny: Phew! But like, casually, West Wing Weekly.
Hrishi: Mm-hm.
Kristin: Yeah I would have actually thought no "the" too.
Jenny: I'm on a no "the" basis with the podcast personally.
Kristin: You know it that well.
Jenny: I do.
Kristin: But yeah, I mean we have some considerable overlap in what we do with the majority of our time.
Hrishi: Mm-hm
Kristin: We watch shows that are off the air and have been for some time, and talk about them [laughs].
Hrishi: Yeah, it's nice to be back in the 90's.
Jenny: A simpler time.
Hrishi: Much worse, actually.
Kristin: Oh I don't know, some could argue. The 90's are kinda coming back.
Hrishi: That's true.
Kristin: Fashion-wise.
Hrishi: That's true.
Kristin: Which is a bummer for those of us who had the clothes, got rid of the clothes and now are like, ugh, "if only."
Jenny: Mmmmmm. That's the nature of cyclical fashion.
Kristin: Yep.
Hrishi: Yep.
Jenny: You always discard everything too soon.
Hrishi: My velvet choker,ugh, can't believe I lost it.
Kristin: [Laughs] Don't worry, I recently purchased a selection of 30 chokers, so before you leave, if you'd like one…
Hrishi: [Laughs]
Jenny: It was cheaper to buy a 30-pack on Amazon than just one.
Kristin: Yeah, for Halloween, Jenny and I were Joyce and Giles but from Band Candy. So I needed chokers, 'cause Joyce goes real hard on chokers in that episode of course, and now I have chokers for any season.
Hrishi: I actually wanted to come today dressed as Giles but I don't have a vest or sweater vest.
Kristin: [sigh] If you had come dressed as Giles we wouldn't even be making the podcast because Jenny and I-
Jenny: We would be dead, we would be ghosts right now.
Kristin: [laughs] We would both be dead.
Hrishi: I was looking- I was like where can I get suspenders in time? [Jenny and Kristin laugh] And then it didn't-
Kristin: The nature of our lives now, I feel like we're always scrambling to do exactly that. I'm like where can I find fill in 90's costume item or fangs or you know…
Hrishi: Instead I'm dressed as Ozzy, you just can't tell-
Kristin: [laughs] Perfect.
Hrishi: We dress so similarly anyway.
Kristin: So tell us before we jump into this episode which is full of drama, a lot happening in this episode, talk to us about your relationship to Buffy.
Hrishi: I'm a late comer to Buffy.
Kristin: Same.
Hrishi: I first got into Joss Whedon's stuff really late actually, I think Dr. Horrible was the first thing that really brought me in. My best friend from growing up was a huge Firefly fan and he tried to get me to watch Firefly and I didn't quite get it the first time he showed it to me. I think I was just starting to watch Battlestar Galactica and I was really excited about it and he was like, "oh, if you like that show watch this show." He played it for me and I was like these are not the same. [Jenny and Kristin laugh] I think the one thing was with Buffy I had watched a couple of episodes from the first season and I thought this is too silly.
Kristin and Jenny: Yeah.
Hrishi: This is not for me, and then another friend of mine here in LA- actually I think several people told me that it's actually really great and I should watch it. I finally leveled with my friend, I was like, "I know you love Buffy, I feel like I should like it but I've tried watching it and it's really hard. I don't like the first few episodes that I've tried watching." And he said, "oh, no no no. Season one's not as good." He's like, "you just have to get through it and then it gets really good." And I was like, "really?" He's like, "trust me." And so I trusted him and then season two I liked so much better. And then season three I was like, "ooh! This is great and then it went on from there." I basically like the show more and more and more the more I watched it as we got further along. So I've seen it all the way through now. I think I might have skipped a couple of episodes in season one based on whether or not they were overall part of the mythology or if they were monster of the week style.
Kristin: Totally.
Hrishi: I don't normally read the synopsis beforehand but I would look and be like okay this one isn't part of the overall story.
Kristin: Well, when you do your rewatch 'cause I know now we've gotten you interested in doing a rewatch. You should watch- I mean do whatever you want, live your life, but I sort of did what you did but with no season one. I couldn't watch season one, Jenny was like, "you cannot marry me if you don't watch the show." So we started with season two and then when we started the podcast I watched season one for the first time and I loved it.
Hrishi: Ohh?
Kristin: I mean it's definitely all the things you said it is but I think because I knew the characters I was so attached to what was happening whereas when I first watched season one I didn't know anybody and I was like this is kind of silly.
Hrishi: Yeah they hadn't got you yet. I know just sort of the big bad episodes from season one really. Just enough, I was basically trying to pregame my season two watching and considering that my real beginning.
Kristin: Right, gotta learn about Angel and his soul, the foundational-
Jenny: Sure, sure, the master.
Kristin: The master and his fruit punch mouth. Yeah, key points. So I have one more question before we go into the specifics of the episode because you brought up Firefly. So you didn't like it?
Hrishi: I do like it now.
Kristin: You do like it now.
Jenny: Ah-ha!
Kristin: 'Cause that's my stumbling block.
Jenny: You just have to watch it and then you'll like it.
Kristin: I know, our listeners, now that they know that I have not been able to watch it, of course are like, "you must watch it."
Hrishi: Yes, I don't know if this is a controversial opinion but I actually really like Serenity t he movie more than I liked the TV show Firefly.
Jenny: We just heard that opinion from friend of the show Joanna Robinson the other day, hopefully I'm not outing her in some way.
Hrishi: Oh, Vanity Fair writer Joanna Robinson?
Jenny: That's right.
Kristin: She has the same opinion?
Jenny: She does have the same opinion.
Kristin: You have a differing opinion?
Jenny: I like them both, the film is compact in a certain way and some things happen in it that I do not care for. The movie is great, the show is great, I feel like the show- where he, I think, excels in character development over a long span of time. I think that each character is so deep and rich with maybe the exception of Simon Tam. It's like medium, he doesn't really get a chance to blossom. But this is not a Firefly podcast and I do apologize for going on and on but I think the show is great and I think the movie is great. Thank you for asking if anybody actually asked, cool.
Kristin: You know what movie none of us have seen is Le Banquet d'Amelia. How do you pronounce that? This is the movie that they are- I know no one has seen it 'cause it's not a real movie.
Hrishi: I was trying really hard to figure out for a second before I finally gave in and looked it up. I was like which movie could it be? All I could think of was Les Cousins Dangereux from Arrested Development. The one that George Michael and Maeby go to see and it's two artsy.
Kristin: Right, what they're doing is a similar thing here.
Hrishi: I was thinking maybe could it be The Cook, The Thief, His Wife & Her Lover. And I was like no, that would have been too early. Chocolat? That's not steamy enough.
Jenny: I like that Angel's like I wanted to take you out someplace fun so I picked a french movie.
Kristin: We get into it with Angel here because he is very dramatic and he's always reading french versions of books by the fireplace. I love that he didn't know what the movie was about so he legit was like there's a french movie, probably it'll be great, I'll take Buffy to see that movie. So they go to see this movie and of course it's, apparently, super sexy which is horrible for these two who cannot-
Jenny: Right, also Hector Projector, Buffy's like sorry that you got all worked up, it's bad for you to get worked up. Buffy has no feelings?
Hrishi: Well she doesn't have the same pension for puffy, flowy shirts that Angel obviously has. I think that was the real draw for him. He was like where can I get the most flowy blouse work in a cinema.
Jenny: Beautiful silks.
Kristin: Angel's like, "how can I feel more seen? If I go to this movie…"
Hrishi: And Buffy saw the costumes and she thought, "oh no, he's gonna get really worked up about this."
Kristin: I don't mean to read you an erotic novel that I have written, I write what I call on the podcast erotic novels. They're actually just lines from the show that I say in a row. I've written one, meaning of course I've just written down the lines.
Okay so my erotic novel for this episode is: "Check out the lust bunnies. Don't worry big guy, I'm just keeping her warm for you."
Jenny: There it is.
Kristin: You know, you being here I thought maybe I shouldn't subject Hrishi to an erotic novel reading. We've only just met but-
Hrishi: But I brought up the flowy blouse and so…
Jenny: You did, you started it. So how 'bout this demon who's looking to sell some books…
Kristin: I have a real soft spot for a nice demon.
Jenny: Nice might be a stretch but not actively violent. There seems to be two kinds of demons in the Sunnydale universe. There's pure evil demons and then there's demons who are trying to wheel and deal and have a mob vibe to them.
Kristin: And then there's Angel.
Jenny: Oh but then there's Angel, of course.
Kristin: Who falls into his own class of demon I think. But yeah I feel like there's a lot of demons like this in the Buffy universe that are sort of silly, you know?
Jenny: Just trying to get by! Make a buck!
Kristin: Right, this demon wants to get cash for the books so he can buy a plane ticket which begs the question-
Hrishi: What demon abilities to you have?
Kristin: Yes! I wasn't even gonna go for that question but right. What are your abilities, also what plane are you gonna take?
Jenny: Maybe there's a whole- like there's Willy's bar, maybe there's a whole secret-
Kristin: Oh you think there's a demon airline?
Jenny: Airline, maybe.
Kristin: [gasps] I mean we did just find out that there's for sure UFOs so… it's believable.
Hrishi: I do like the idea of this guy just having a regular life through e-commerce and shopping and he's gotta ply a trade in order to make his nut.
Kristin: Yeah, and even the watcher's, the watcher's how dare I-
Jenny: Yes, how dare you.
Kristin: Even Wesley and Giles are like this doesn't make any sense, demons asking for cash? But it's just who he is, just needs some money. So we learn about the books of ascension from this guy, who had a name, we didn't hear his name, the demon?
Jenny: Oh I think Skylar?
Kristin: Jenny looked it up.
Jenny: Horned demon Skylar is how he's listed on Wikipedia.
Kristin: Yeah, but I don't wanna leave this scene before we also talk about how the moment- so Faith has seen Angel and Buffy making out and has written her erotic novel which I've read for everybody. And then we get to the graveyard and she immediately is like, "I don't know how you do it, I don't know how you could possibly handle being with that guy and not being able to-"
Jenny: Any opportunity to talk to Buffy about doing it and bring up doing it again one more time just so they have some stuff to talk about. Buffy's not biting, she's over it, those days are in the past.
Kristin: Right, she's like, "if you need to let off any steam Buffy, I'm here" is what she means, we know this. So we go to the mayor's office. What are your feelings on the mayor?
Hrishi: I think the mayor is my favorite part of satire in the whole Buffy universe. It's so good, it's so subtle, I don't know if it's subtle… It feels light-handed. There's a part where, I think right in this scene, he makes a comment to Faith about putting her hair up. He's like, "why don't you put your hair up? You have such a nice face." Something like that, "I just wish I could see your face," and it is the most subtle and pernicious kind of abusive authority. I love the way that they take his sweet paternalistic side and show how that can be just a mask for evil. And then there are these little things that he says, I loved that part. That's actually maybe my favorite evil thing in the whole episode is that line just because it's such brilliant satire.
Kristin: It's so what your parents would say to you.
Hrishi: I was thinking of them as employer and employee, it's the perfect creepy boss kind of thing to say. You hear it and it's not until you leave the room that you realize how creepy that was and how inappropriate.
Kristin: Totally, and Faith definitely doesn't have the tools to recognize that. I don't think that Faith has the tools to realize that it's creepy or whatever.
Jenny: This is like the first time she's gotten positive attention for an extended period of time in her life.
Kristin: That is explicitly not sexual attention. It's like no, I wanna take care of you and I wanna make sure you're okay. And obviously we hear a ton from Faith in this episode about how she didn't get any of that as a child. Jenny has read a book called Go Ask Malice which is an unauthorized prequel to Faith's life that she likes to call on all the time.
Jenny: I'm sorry.
Kristin: But we now have without Go Ask Malice, we officially have some information on Faith's backstory from this episode. So there's that.
Hrishi: Yeah, she's never had a positive parental figure and that's really what the mayor seems to be positioning himself as sort of half boss, half step dad or foster dad or something.
Kristin: Yeah, but he slip- so 'cause I was watching this episode, we just watched it again, and I was watching it thinking that. The last time we saw him he was talking about how he was a family man and on and on and on. And it's so different than what Faith is used to. But then, not to skip ahead but I'm going to, there's this part in this episode where he has told Faith to go and have sex with Angel to take Angel's soul. I just feel that it took all the air out of this thing- you know? The mayor was set up to be this one thing but that's all the creepiness.
Jenny: It's not great. I kind of wonder if the writers intended for the "wear your hair back, you have such a pretty face" to be as dark as we're perceiving it to be because it could just be- or did I misunderstand?
Kristin: I don't know, I just think it's dark because of what lies underneath it. I think that it's meant to be like he's paternal but we all know that he's also super evil.
Jenny: You know what might be the most evil thing that we see from the mayor in this episode?
Kristin: I know.
Jenny: A pitcher of milk just out on the counter in the middle of the day! No!
Kristin: I mean even if it was refrigerated I would have an issue with it.
Jenny: It would be a bummer but it's just out, it's not in an ice bucket or anything. There's not a fridge in sight, to be frank.
Kristin: Just some room temp milk.
Jenny: Noooooooo.
Kristin: Do you have milk feelings? This could be very divisive. We have people in our lives who love milk.
Jenny: Who just drink a bunch of milk on purpose.
Kristin: And I have doubts.
Jenny: And if you're that person that's okay.
Hrishi: I am milk ambivalent.
Kristin: [laughs] Just ambivalent? So you're not horrified by the mayor's milk pitcher?
Hrishi: I didn't notice it.
Kristin: Wow! Incredible.
Hrishi: Yeah, it didn't register.
Jenny: What a life you must lead, moving through the world not noticing milk out on the counter.
Kristin: Also I noticed that Faith, I think, has a new leather jacket. I just wanna say that.
Jenny: I bet the mayor bought it.
Kristin: Yeah, I think the mayor has gotten her some new digs and also a new leather jacket.
Hrishi: I think that the mayor, his closest real life analogue is Ted Cruz.
Kristin: Oooooooo.
Jenny: Hmmmmm.
Kristin: I have so many feelings about it, you know? Because I see it but also I love the mayor… I have a real soft spot for the mayor which I don't really have- I see but I'm not willing- We did a live taping of, what episode was it? The one with the glove of Myhnegon and Gwendolyn.
Jenny: Oh, Revelations.
Kristin: Revelations, and I was just trying to draw comparisons between a character who is evil on the show and Hermione Granger. But I meant it like, if Hermione was evil and everyone lost their minds. They could not take what they loved and-
Jenny: You cannot just gently compare Hermione Granger to Gwendolyn Post.
Kristin: So I'm now feeling some of that where I see it but I cannot allow it.
Hrishi: You know, campaign on his moral righteousness while also being evil.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: Yeah, and he's the only one who's ever done that.
NOTES: [all laugh]
Hrishi: I was trying to think of who else would work but really I couldn't think of anybody better than Ted Cruz. I'm open to the idea that there might be somebody who's more like the mayor than Ted Cruz but that's who I came up with.
Kristin: No, I think that's a good call 'cause Ted Cruz is definitely- I mean I don't know everybody. But I feel like out of the humans that I do know, fortunately or unfortunately, that he has that quality the most.
Hrishi: Yeah, he has the grin. He's bought into what he's selling.
Kristin: Yes! That's what it is! The mayor knows what he's doing but he also 100% believes that he is a family man and a good moral- loves to keep that hand sanitizer around, you know? So we go to the library… "Whatever happened to the still beating heart of a virgin?" says Giles.
Jenny: The question I'm always asking.
Kristin: When he finds out that this demon wants cash, which I love. Also Giles has been eating a lot in the library lately. Last episode we saw him with a lollipop, today he's got a banana.
Jenny: He is just throwing the rules to the wayside now that Wesley is in the house.
Kristin: Popping those suspenders down. He's like casual Friday Giles all the day long. Every day of the week, he's casual Friday Giles.
Hrishi: He's off the council.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, exactly!
Hrishi: I mean what rules really matter in this case?
Kristin: He's enjoying his freedom and I think he's also enjoying being next to Wesley because-
Hrishi: He always looks good no matter what?
Jenny: Yes, yes, yes, he's so much cooler standing next to Wesley.
Kristin: Right, he used to always get in trouble for being- not in trouble, but he always used to get labeled as the uptight one and now…
Jenny: Look at him now.
Kristin: He's cool casual Giles just eating a banana hanging out. Cordelia enters here, we've been having all manner of conversation about Cordelia and Wesley lately.
Hrishi: The fact that everybody wasn't just saying to Wesley- the fact that he even [sighs] could begin to entertain Cordelia's advances I was like what are you doing?
Kristin: Right?
Jenny: It's so much.
Kristin: And It's like a- yes Jenny? Jenny's hands are up.
Jenny: I did a little digging on the Buffy Wiki today trying to determine the actual age of the character of Wesley Wyndam Pryce.
Kristin: Oh, interesting.
Jenny: No results, zero results, if you know something… tell us.
Kristin: But it doesn't even matter.
Jenny: I know, well okay, no it doesn't matter.
Hrishi: He has graduated from high school at least that much we know.
Jenny: [laughs] He's graduated from high school.
Kristin: And he's in a position of authority.
Jenny: Even though that position of authority has nothing to do with the school structure.
Kristin: Right, that's true.
Jenny: I'm not coming out in favor of it.
Hrishi: He has a position of authority in terms of Scooby land.
Kristin: Yeah, and she's in Scooby land.
Hrishi: She is in the Scoobies, yeah.
Kristin: I mean she's only got one foot in right now but she's definitely considered one of the Scoobies and it's just not…
Jenny: Right, This would never- would this happen today? This wouldn't happen today.
Kristin: On television? Oh no, no I don't- well, today right now I don't think it would happen but maybe like five-
Jenny: Five years ago?
Kristin: Months ago, no I think just a few months ago.
Jenny: Five months ago!
Kristin: Yeah I think people were still being pretty casual, maybe not this casual but I don't know…
Jenny: This is the same time period that we were all like yeah Pacey a teacher! Just a different era of-
Kristin: Yeah, I would have never- honestly Jenny, I watched this, what four five years ago, six years ago? Not even and I don't-
Jenny: Without thinking about it?
Kristin: Yeah, I don't think I thought about it all when I watched it the first time. I was just like cool. I really didn't, it wasn't part of my consciousness even then.
Hrishi: That's interesting.
Jenny: Not even like, "this guy sucks?"
Kristin: Oh Wesley?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: No, I mean I don't remember my initial feelings on Wesley. It's complicated 'cause now I know Wesley is-
Jenny: Some other things.
Kristin: Yeah, I think I thought he was funny, like he's a funny character. I don't think I found him super annoying but I just found him humorous.
Hrishi: When I was growing up the age difference between a guy and a girl was something that was always discussed all the time among guys I knew. The rules about, even can you be a senior in high school and date a freshman? Things like that, there was a girl in our high school who was dating a guy who was just inconceivably old to me, he was like 26.
Kristin: [whispers] Woooooooow.
Hrishi: I feel like it's been on my mind for a long time so when I saw Buffy the first time, I mean it wasn't that long ago, I had the same feelings about it then.
Kristin: I remember being in high school and having friends who were dating people who were like 25, 26 and being like [indifferent] hmm.
Hrishi: Not a big thing?
Kristin: I mean, not that it wasn't a big thing, it was something but it didn't feel wrong because I was also at that point in the other position. I was the younger person so I was just like wow, that's cool, I don't know.
Jenny: Right, from this side of things….
Kristin: And I always felt as a high school student, I was more mature than the people I was in school with and was friends often with people who were a couple years older than me anyways.
Jenny: I wonder if the fact that Wesley acts like a child and Cordelia is generally in command of the majority of situations she's in has anything to do with the perception of-
Kristin: Their situation. It's messed up.
Jenny: Yeah, no thank you, hard pass.
Kristin: But it is a product of a different time when so many of us were completely unaware of these things. Which is unfortunate but I do think it's changing very rapidly.
Jenny: So this demon lives in like an efficiency apartment?
Hrishi: In a C- part of town, not a bad enough part of town for Giles.
NOTES: [Jenny and Kristin laugh]
Jenny: Nor a good enough part.
Kristin: I just thought he was in Faith's motel room.
Jenny: He's probably in the same district as Faith's motel room.
Kristin: This is why when we first started talking about, what's this demon's name?
Jenny: Skylar. The horned demon Skylar.
Kristin: When we were first talking about Skylar I was sad and I categorized him as a nice demon. I think it was because of this scene.
Jenny: Because he gets killed messily and it's not fair.
Kristin: It's horrible, he's just this simple guy trying to do his thing and then he gets so horribly killed by Faith. It's just a really rough scene to watch.
Hrishi: It is a rough scene, yeah.
Jenny: Deliberately right? Because we need to see where Faith is at in her downward spiral.
Kristin: So yeah, I feel like this is a really heavy Faith episode obviously, but there are little things that she shows us in the episode that really broke my heart. There's, I'm skipping a little ahead, but when we go back to the motel and Buffy and Faith are there. She does this thing with her hands when she walks into the room.
Jenny: Ohhhh, yeah!
Kristin: It's sort of like when you know you have to do something horrible and you have to shake it off before you do it.
Jenny: She has her arms straight down but her fingers are kinda open and stretched out.
Kristin: Yeah, and you see her shaking it off. I don't know, I feel very attached to Faith in this viewing. Much more attached to Faith than I felt in the first viewing. It took me a long time to come around to Faith but then I did and now here I am. So watching her in this episode, it's really painful. Even when she finds out that everybody's lying to her I think the majority of the audience is like, "ha ha! that's what you get for being horrible!" I just feel like, "No! Oh no!" Again she feels betrayed, she's doing this horrible thing, but I still really feel for her.
Jenny: It just feels like she's getting pushed farther and farther away from a point of possible return.
Hrishi: Do you think there was any ever any saving of Faith? She comes to town and she seems like she's not lost. She seems like she's trouble and she's troubled but it feels like with the Scoobies and with Wesley that she's a good guy and she's gonna be a good guy. Maybe one who's a little more of an antihero and she gets to do a lot of the stuff that Buffy doesn't get to do. But she turns bad so fast that I wonder if, even at the beginning of her arc, she was already beyond redemption.
Kristin: It's hard to tell, 'cause we felt that way too as she turns this corner.
Jenny: Once it starts… I feel like if this was something that had happened over two seasons they might have been more successful in making it more believable. I think it's not super believable how quick she goes bad.
Hrishi: That's what I was feeling, I was like oh gosh we're only at episode what? Seventeen?
Kristin: Seventeen, yeah and really she only started turning as much as she started turning two, three episodes ago is when she killed Allan.
Jenny: Yeah, at the end of Bad Girls.
Kristin: We buy into, because of course that's what we need to do but I don't know…
Jenny: Also did you just say that Faith was trouble and troubled?
Hrishi: Yeah.
Jenny: Wow, that was great. [Kristin and Hrishi laugh] Truly great. I feel like I could see Faith wearing that t-shirt. "Trouble and Troubled".
Kristin: [laughs] I don't know.
Jenny: Maybe it's a little on the nose.
Hrishi: Too self aware? And there's a level of self-awareness that she definitely has and then there's some real blind spots in her own character that she's missing.
Kristin: She definitely shows more self-awareness in this episode than we've seen. It's like she's suddenly using the way people perceive her as her tools to do this trick. Which is probably why my heart breaks so much because she knows that they look at her this way and they do, she's not even wrong.
Hrishi: I think it's with the mayor that I feel like she has the least self awareness. The fact that she can be so easily manipulated there whereas in the other instances she can do the manipulating more easily.
Kristin: Yeah, and I don't know that the mayor knew this going into it but I think it's because of his tactics that she's so fooled. We talk about all the time that no one gave Faith anything, they had her living in a motel. No one offered her a place to live and so now that she's being showered with all these gifts and new leather jackets and all these things she slips, and slips fast. So we go to Angel's mansion and he- Okay, listeners here, this is a long term project for you because what I would like is just a collection of all of the pan to Angel shots where he's doing something dramatic.
Jenny: Especially reading a book by the firelight.
Kristin: Reading a book, and that is what he is doing. He's reading a leatherbound book.
Jenny: This episode is chock full of Angel immolation watch moments. He is hanging out in front of the fireplace two or three times. And then later he's just sitting in the middle of a bunch of lit candles. Why! With no regard for his own safety.
Kristin: You know, he puts his lighting choices above his safety choices is what I think.
Jenny: Right, right okay.
Hrishi: Have you already discussed Angel's establishing shot?
Kristin: No, I don't think so.
Jenny: We. Have. Not.
Hrishi: I mean in real life the establishing shot-
Kristin: Where Angel lives in real life.
Hrishi: Yes, his establishing shot, you know when I dream of Angel's place and I first come up with the establishing shot. That is a Frank Lloyd Wright house in Los Feliz I think.
Kristin: Yeah, it's here, we've had people tell us that it's close.
Jenny: So close, yeah.
Kristin: It's very close, as a matter of fact we did an episode in Santa Barbara where people were saying Santa Barbara is Sunnydale. And people argued back well then how do you explain Angel's mansion being here?
Hrishi: How did he live in that Frank Lloyd Wright house?
Kristin: Yeah, he really has taste that Angel. High, high taste.
Hrishi: His candle bill though, so high.
Kristin: And people try to tell us- people really argue on Angel's behalf. "Well he uses all that fire because he was used to using fire as his main source of lighting."
Jenny: I don't know…
Kristin: I don't buy it, it's all for drama, It's all for his sense of drama.
Jenny: Do you think any of his candles are scented?
Hrishi: Oh, all of them.
Kristin: Different, or all the same scent?
Jenny: It's like a collage of scents.
Hrishi: 100% french vanilla.
Kristin: That's what I thought in my mind when you said scented! I was like, definitely vanilla. And also something about it being french vanilla is extra.
Jenny: Of course! French vanilla.
Kristin: Right, right, not any other version but French.
Hrishi: Yeah, he's cultured.
Kristin: Only french fries, french kisses and french vanilla candles for Angel.
Hrishi: He must have a candle of the month subscription.
Jenny: [gasps]
Kristin: Oh my God… yes.
Hrishi: You know, like a candle box, oh Candlebox was a band, but I was trying to think-
Jenny: It was a band but what a great appropriation of that name for a company that will probably be advertising direct to consumers via podcasts anytime soon.
Hrishi: Or the band, this is their new merch outfit, Candlebox brand candle box.
Jenny: Yes, yes, yes!
Kristin: Yeah, and all of the scents are derived from their lyrics and/or song titles.
Jenny: I don't think that would be a good…
Kristin: I don't know anything about- no? Do you know something off the top of your head?
Jenny: The song that I remember the clearest, like 90% of the lyrics of the song are "for you".
Kristin: Just the words "for you"?
Jenny: It's like "I'd die for you and I cry for you and I [mumbling] for you"
Hrishi: So far sounds totally like Angel. That's the Angel special.
Jenny: Okay so they would have a very specific market: brooding vampires.
Kristin: Also, I'm sorry but "I died for you" and "I cried for you" are both viable candle scent options.
Jenny: Totally.
Kristin: They might exist already.
Jenny: I'm leaving out the fact that they're sort of scream singing. So it's not as Angel- I guess it's sort of like proto emo.
Hrishi: Maybe it's exactly- Yeah, he's pretty emo.
Kristin: So something that I like in this scene is last episode? No, I guess it was whenever Angel was talking to Faith last. Angel was like, our listeners dubbed it vampsplaining, but you know mansplaining murder to Faith. He was just like you know when you murder once, then you-
Hrishi: You get the taste for it or something like that?
Jenny: Also is it mansplaining if you're projecting your own soulless shit onto a young woman.
Kristin: No! It's vampsplaining! But what I like in this scene, 'cause we talked about it a little bit but then we got more into it on social media, is that Faith is using it against Angel in this scene. She comes in and she's like everything you said is true, it's all coming true just like you said!
Jenny: I'm a cold blooded straight up killer. Blegh! Who would ever say those words in that order?
Kristin: Do we know the chronology on when Angel- Angel is buying it in this, he's not not buying it right? The only way that this gets undone is because Giles has introduced the demon to his wife.
Jenny: Right, but that's not until after this scene where the sorcerer's… [cross talk]
Hrishi: Oh, so you're saying here he is actually buying it, the reverse reverse psychology hasn't begun yet?
Kristin: At least, I mean, I guess we don't know-
Jenny: But I think we can assume.
Hrishi: No, that's a good point, when I got to the end of the episode I was like oh he had her fooled the whole time but no, she did have him for a little bit.
Kristin: For a little bit, I think so. And I think it's because of the vampsplaining. I think he was like, "I knew it, I told you once you get a taste for murder you know?"
Jenny: Also It's Angel's favorite new thing whenever anyone shows up with literal blood on their literal hands, he's so into it.
Kristin: Because he is what Jenny?
NOTES: [DETECTIVE ANGEL jingle plays] Detective Angel!
Jenny: Yes, detective Angel.
Kristin: Detective Angel.
Jenny: Is on the case.
Kristin: We're gonna try to play- I feel like we're just gonna try to worm that into every episode now that it exists.
Jenny: For as long as we can.
Kristin: So Buffy sees this kiss between Faith and Angel.
Jenny: It's sort of like a kiss on the cheek.
Kristin: But it is intimate, you know especially Buffy knowing Angel and Faith's relationship up to this point-
Jenny: Totally, totally, totally.
Kristin: Seeing that I would also have been jarred. And then!
Jenny: I know that in high school when my re-ensouled vampire boyfriend started spending time with my similarly powered, be-saddled with sacred duty, doppelganger friend who is more of a bad girl and had killed a man I was always jealous of their dark connection.
Kristin: Exactly, it's relatable.
Hrishi: This is really the episode where the two of them become best frenemies.
Jenny: [gasps] Wow.
Hrishi: Right? I mean before there's some discomfort in here but this is new.
Jenny: This is where it all really goes-
Hrishi: Which is why the episode is called Best Frenemies.
Kristin: Little known fact.
Hrishi: In parentheses (Best Fr)Enemies.
Kristin: Well now that's what it's called forever for sure. But yeah, this is where it's really cemented in a whole array of ways.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: So we go back to the mayor- oh this is where my sad face comes because this is where it's like oh the mayor sent her there to sleep with Angel and I'm bummed about it? And I know we just played a detective Angel jingle but we have a jingle that's really appropriate for what the mayor has done here to Faith. So will you just play that now Jenny?
NOTES: [THE PATRIARCHY jingle plays] The patriarchy! [thunder clap, evil laughter]
Hrishi: Yeah, this is the part I think that you hit on earlier where he's established himself as this guy who does not see her sexually and there's this validation for Faith that goes along with that. But then he still wants her to use her sexuality as a weapon, as a tool in his evil quest. So it's not like he doesn't see it, he's just more saying "oh well not for me" or "I'm not interested".
Kristin: Right, which sort of undoes it for me. I know that the mayor is evil but there's a part of me that's bummed out about that. I kinda want the mayor's entire story to be that he really is that family man but he also is evil. This kinda undoes that which is a bummer. He also knows that there is in fact more than one way to skin a cat.
Jenny: He's done the research.
Kristin: Yeah, does anybody know about where the saying comes from? "There's more than one way to skin a cat."
Jenny: Let's, gee, not find out.
Kristin: I mean right? It's gotta come from somewhere.
Jenny: Sam might be able to hear us right now.
Kristin: Oh my God, Sam cover your ears, you're right let's change the topic quick.
Jenny: So then we see Giles blowing his nose for the first time ever.
Kristin: Oh?
Jenny: Yeah that's right, I wrote that down.
Kristin: Yeah, and he really- there's like full sound effects of nose blowing.
Jenny: And then he pauses, there's like a record scratch in the middle of his nose blow. And then Buffy makes this Waiting for Godot reference which I didn't see coming.
Kristin: Yeah, it's good. We had- I don't know if you know Andrew Ti at all but Andrew Ti has a podcast called Yo, Is This Racist?
Hrishi: Oh right.
Kristin: Okay, yeah so he was on an episode with us and in that episode he brought up- we knew that there was a writer's room and we knew that the people writing the lines were not in high school but for some reason the way that he brought it into that discussion now I think about it all the time when lines like this are said. Where I'm like oh right, this was written by somebody who was not in high school and I love it. I do like it but also, would Buffy say that?
Jenny: This works a lot better than Cordelia making a super deep cut Marx Brothers reference in The Zeppo.
Hrishi: Can I respond to your comment before-
Jenny: Please.
Hrishi: Now that there's- nah, it's been too long, it's not gonna work.
Kristin: No, it's gonna work beautifully.
Hrishi: Can you set me up again, you said you didn't see it coming.
Jenny: I didn't see it coming.
Hrishi: That's because you didn't wait long enough.
Jenny: Oh my God. My mistake.
Hrishi: That was really not worth it. I apologize.
Kristin: No, I think it was, I really- [laughs] So Xander has bribed Willy with $28-
Hrishi: And there's no petty cash from the council.
Jenny: Also I'm kind of surprised that Xander has $28 banging around in his pocket.
Hrishi: I know!
Jenny: And he's down to use it for every- he's just like that woman in the bible with the two pennies?
Kristin: What?
Jenny: No?
Kristin: Who? I mean I don't know the ins and outs of the bible very well-
Jenny: Hmm maybe it's not-
Kristin: But go on Jenny please tell us the story from the bible. Tell us how you remember it.
Jenny: Oh no! It might be the bible or it might be something from a sermon that has been printed on photos of a seashore and hung in mom's sewing rooms.
Kristin: Okay so there's a lady with two pennies and she knew that when there was only one penny-
Jenny: No it's about tithing-
Hrishi: Oh, I do know this story.
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: What?
Hrishi: There's a lady, she has two pennies and then she uses both pennies to bribe Willy to get information about where the demon with the hat lives. I've read that postcard.
NOTES: [Jenny and Kristin laugh]
Kristin: Wow, of course, how would I have not…
Jenny: Somebody's' bummed out on tithing and they're like I have to give 10 or 20% of my earnings to the church? And then somebody in the story, is it Jesus? Is it a nameless character in the story of the pastor that I may have just actually fabricated in my mind? Says, "well this one woman gave two pennies" and the guy's like, "what's two pennies?" And the guy's like, "all she had". [Kristin laughs] I don't know why it feels like a joke now but it's supposed to be very serious.
Kristin: No, it's just that was your crying voice. That was like oh no…
Jenny: No, I was just trying not to laugh, they're very close, I'm sorry that I took us down this really, really pointless path.
Kristin: Oh, I'm thrilled. I'm thrilled you took us down the two penny path.
Hrishi: Two penny lane.
Kristin: Precisely. So an important line in this scene before we leave it, in case we're leaving it. Yes? Jenny is reaching across the ocean toward me.
Jenny: No please, please, please. I'm just in solidarity.
Kristin: "Where we goin' girlfriend?"
Jenny: Yeah, that's right.
Kristin: Faith says to Buffy in a way that is, I don't know, the way that maybe you speak to somebody when you have a crush on them is all I'm saying.
Jenny: But she's back to girlfriend.
Kristin: She's back to girlfriend, yeah.
Jenny: But Buffy's not into it, obviously.
Kristin: I was like, what did I write here? and I wrote "the touching" but I wrote a lot of n's so I couldn't understand. The touchinnnnnng with lots of n's does recall to my mind the way that Faith and Buffy touch each other in this moment because- so Buffy has seen them kiss and so she's upset and Faith- It's just the awkwardness to me doesn't feel like the awkwardness that would be between two just friends who are then in a fight and cold. It feels to me like a relationship where they were very comfortable with each other and suddenly are not. You know?
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: That's all I'm gonna say.
Jenny: Sure, sometimes you can just be comfortable with your friends. People who share the same sacred duty and super strength.
Kristin: Yeah, okay sure Jenny
Jenny: But also the other thing, I'm on board.
Hrishi: In your interpretation where the two of them are crushing on each other is it that Faith knows she's got the hots for Buffy and Buffy is still sort of in the closet about it. Or maybe she doesn't even-
Kristin: To be honest I think that my real interpretation, I mean we came to the conclusion that they definitely did some stuff in Bad Girls together but if I'm being real serious about it I think that my belief is that Faith has a huge crush on Buffy-
Jenny: And may or may not know that she has a huge crush on Buffy.
Kristin: Right, and I think that there's a lot of room for Buffy to not be 100% aware of that. I play with it because it's fun but I think Faith has feelings for Buffy. It's super clear and actually somebody sent me recently an email of an interview that Eliza Dushku did at a comicon where she was asked this question and she said 100% Faith had feelings for… you know.
Jenny: Oh, can you forward that to me?
Kristin: I can, I can forward it to you Jenny.
Hrishi: Did she say that she played- she performed in her role that way, like she interpreted it.
Kristin: She didn't, I mean the quote that I saw was a short one and I don't know if there's more or if she just sort of said it and then the internet exploded and was like look! So I don't know if she was playing that, it just- I can't imagine how she would not have been playing it. It reads so strongly, especially when you go back and you watch Bad Girls you'll be like there's no way that she wasn't playing it. But she has talked about it and something that is relevant to this episode is that the script of enemies, the original script, so when we get to the part where Faith leans over and kisses Buffy's forehead, which we'll talk about but just so you know the script had Faith Kissing Buffy on the lips.
Hrishi: [gasps] Whoa.
Kristin: Yeah, yeah! [laughs] I feel like I just got to watch the response that people will have when they are listening. The people who didn't know that, it's fun.
Jenny: Wow, yes. That was beautiful.
Kristin: Soooo in case you didn't know that is in the script so it was there, it's there but to what level it's being played and played with is all a little grey.
Hrishi: I wonder if standards and practices was like we're not ready for that. It's still 1999.
Kristin: Seriously, yeah 'cause we don't have any information on why that was changed but I wonder if we could find it.
Jenny: I bet a lot of people listening already know and they're emailing us right now!
Kristin: I hope so and if you don't know I hope you're about to dedicate your life to the quest of finding out why we didn't get this kiss. Why?
Hrishi: Yeah, I mean Willow just licked herself.
Kristin: Right? But maybe there's something- I don't know. Willow just licked herself is also a great sentence.
Jenny: Great point.
Kristin: And she did, you are correct. So I don't know, we'll have to dig deeper.
Jenny: You know what I'd like to know? The germaphobe mayor who just can't get enough hand sanitizer is not only leaving milk out in the room temperature room he's also eating mints from a dish of unwrapped mints!
Kristin: And I've been taught in my life that there is no place where germs grow more than in the diner dish of mints.
Hrishi: Never take the diner mints.
Kristin: I always do, I know it but I can't resist it.
Hrishi: I will say the ones that are individually plastic wrapped-
Jenny: That's fine.
Kristin: They're so good though, what are they even made of?
Jenny: They're definitely made of something that is preserving your insides actively.
Kristin: Yeah, maybe that's why the mayor's eating them.
Hrishi: You know why, it's not just germs specifically why you're not supposed to eat them.
Kristin: No, I only know about germs. What, why?
Jenny: Oh my God why?
Hrishi: Oh because they tested them and it turns out they have a huge amount of uric acid because people go to the bathroom on their way out they don't wash their hands and then they grab mints and then a little bit of pee got on their hands…
Kristin: Isn't pee like sterile though?
Jenny: That makes you chill with it? What!
Kristin: I'm just trying to justify all my years of eating pee mints.
Jenny: Look, those years are in the past and you're never having one again.
Kristin: Okay, unless they're individually wrapped, and then I'm allowed to have one.
Hrishi: Then it's fine, then the pee just gets on the plastic.
Kristin: Great. So yeah, good call though, I didn't pick that up and that's like germaphobe 101.
Jenny: There's two things that I'm watching like a hawk on this show and they are inconsistencies in the mayor's germaphobia and also Angel immolation watch! Which is about to revisit us again. Standing before the open flames in his undershirt, a delight for people who enjoy looking at the male form.
Kristin: Which is Jenny as we've learned.
Jenny: I love a hunk. I just paused the recording for a second because I felt like is it okay for me to draw attention to the fact that David Boreanaz looks great in an undershirt?
Kristin: Oh, you were worried that you were objectifying Angel?
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Listen, Angel literally is always standing next to a flickering flame unbuttoning his silk shirt. I feel like it's okay that you like to look upon him. I don't know what do you think?
Hrishi: I he'd say mission accomplished.
Jenny: Thank you for this validation. I feel very safe.
Kristin: Before we get too deep into flickering flame Angel in this scene I wanna make sure that we talk about the fact that Willow and Buffy connect in a way that's really meaningful because Buffy is sharing with Willow what Faith has done, Willow is super stoked on it because she doesn't like Faith.
Jenny: Yes, yes, yes.
Kristin: And Willow has a line "I too know the love of a taciturn man" which is just really good.
Jenny: Crushing it. It's so good.
Kristin: Especially 'cause in Doppelgangland, which is the episode before this we had a full conversation about how Angel and Oz had an exchange and we were like does that happen often because they both were like, "hey," "hey."
Jenny: Monosyllable. Monosyllable.
Hrishi: For what it's worth that line is the one that elicited the biggest laugh from my wife.
Kristin: [laughs] Nice.
Hrishi: I didn't stop to investigate, I just let it go.
Kristin: Is your wife a person who watches Buffy or was she watching this with no context?
Hrishi: She watched with me, we watched it all together.
Kristin: Nice, it's a good moment. Okay so friendship hearts and taciturn lines now we may go back into Angel's mansion where Faith is about to call Angel a chump and dump a big glop of blood on him?
Hrishi: I guess it's the soul magnet juice.
Jenny: Right, soul magnet juice.
Kristin: Soul magnet juice, of course!
Jenny: Now available at Whole Foods.
Hrishi: It's the companion piece to your candle box.
Kristin: So this is like watching The Sixth Sense, so I've talked about this on the podcast already but The Sixth Sense was ruined for me. My best friend looked me in my eyes and said everybody's dead, or he sees dead people or whatever the spoiler was. I knew that he was dead.
Hrishi: So much for this podcast being spoiler free.
Kristin: No, I'm so angry about it that I'm willing to drag anybody down with me. I've held that grudge since nineteen ninety whatever it was. Why was I saying that, why was I talking about that.
Hrishi: Soul magnet juice.
Jenny: Because we know after we've seen the whole episode that this is not real.
Kristin: Oh! Right, so watching this episode knowing that Angel is pretending the whole time is fun 'cause the first time you watch this episode you're like holy shit he's lost his soul again!
Jenny: Good God!
Kristin: But it's really fun to watch it knowing what's going on and it's like fucking good job man. He does a great job, almost too good of a job one might say.
Jenny: I mean, Buffy would say too good of a job.
Kristin: Yeah, he's very believable. He didn't have to punch Xander.
Hrishi: And he's still in character, he's still got the glower on when he says, "second best" [Jenny and Kristin laugh] He's doesn't give a full wa-na-wa-na-na-wa gotcha! I'm like well you've said that you don't have to have the full I'm evil face-
Kristin: He was just so deep in his role.
Hrishi: He was so method!
Kristin: [laughs] oh my God.
Hrishi: Why doesn't Willow do magic more often?
Jenny: Mmm she's just getting started.
Hrishi: But she sent that pencil spinning into the tree, I was like she could be more effective in a fight.
Kristin: I agree, but I don't know that she feels she has control enough.
Jenny: Well it goes into the tree 'cause she loses emotional control.
Kristin: Right, that's true.
Jenny: So she's just playing it safe.
Kristin: And I think she's probably not supposed to because she even talks about it in this episode that Giles is like hiding-
Hrishi: Hiding the books.
Kristin: Yeah, so even if she could she probably wouldn't because Willow doesn't break the rules. She's a rule follower.
Jenny: Delicious succulent rules.
Kristin: This is also the part where we don't know it if we're watching it for the first time but Giles and Buffy are in on this and everybody else is not. And I guess, do they just not trust Wesley? Is that the main reason?
Jenny: I think probably with something like this it's just always the less people that know the less people can fuck it up.
Kristin: Right, well and also Wesley has been kind of fucking shit up since he arrived so…
Jenny: True.
Kristin: 'Cause I think they would have trusted the rest of the Scoobies with it if it wasn't for Wesley's presence. If Giles was still the watcher, you know?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: I don't know, maybe not.
Hrishi: I don't know, I mean maybe they don't trust Xander either. Xander gets punched in the face, he takes the punch very believably because he doesn't know that it's a…
Kristin: Right, that's true.
Jenny: Also Xander has historically not been trustworthy when it comes to stuff involving Angel?
Kristin: Yeah, okay you're right.
Hrishi: And just has a bad poker face in general too I think.
Kristin: To be fair everyone in this show struggles with poker faces. [laughs]
Jenny: Except apparently Angel. [imitating Angel] "Second Best"
Kristin: And so this is Angel's next performance in the mayor's office where he is like just nailing it.
Jenny: Oh yeah.
Kristin: I just feel like he doesn't miss a fucking beat. He's like I don't wanna fucking kill you and he picks up the letter opener and he's all fucking evil. I love, I don't know if we see the mayor and the Angel, have we seen them interact ever before?
Jenny: No.
Hrishi: I don't think so.
Kristin: And it's really fun, especially him playing Angelous, just the mayor being like, "you young people" and, "I'd like to teach you some respect"
Jenny: Yeah, attitude versus courtesy.
Hrishi: I had a gasp while watching this scene because I had just been thinking about the metaphor of the mayor as this benevolent power structure. Or you know that he seems benevolent and just as I was having that thought Angel throws the knife into his hand and then he pulls it out and he says, "I'm impervious" and I went [gasps] like he was reading my metaphor.
Kristin: Oh my God he saw you, yeah.
Hrishi: I was like yes! Yes! That power structure is impervious.
Jenny: I like positive up thoughts so I'd like to change the subject to Angel and Faith swinging by Buffy's and this exchange between Angel and Joyce about Joyce's hair.
Kristin: This is… this is…. Joyce has been really getting some moments in the last few episodes. I would like to call it "Choice Joyce".
Jenny: [laughs] Wow.
Kristin: This is amazing.
Hrishi: I was a little disappointed by Joyce being so flustered by the compliment from Angel. I'm like that's- he can't-
Kristin: It's too easy?
Hrishi: No, just that's your daughter's boyfriend.
Kristin: Right, but also he's 241 years old…
Jenny: This is getting messy.
Kristin: [laughs] Well no, I just mean I don't think that Joyce approves of Angel and Buffy together.
Jenny: I mean, just objectively as a mom you probably don't want your 16, 17 year old daughter dating someone who's-
Kristin: Right, I mean okay, I see what you're-
Hrishi: A much, much, much, much, much, much, much older man.
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah, It's like 241, well 243 now, divided by 17. That's math I can't do in my head.
Kristin: That would be amazing if you could. But yeah I get what you're saying but I love it. It's just so fun and I don't know that this would happen every day with Joyce. I think she was just caught off guard and like what is happening?
Hrishi: I mean it's also Angel's fault because he's really bringing the smoky and sultry to it.
Kristin: Let's be real, Angel, I don't think he likes pretending to be Angelous but I do think he likes having a reason to be extra dramatic.
Jenny: Oh yeah.
Hrishi: And dramatically flirty, the best form of dramatic for Angel.
Jenny: Dramatically flirty, dramatically punching Xander in the face.
Kristin: It's like he's finally free from only being able to brood, he can finally let some of that drama out.
Jenny: I did some math on my phone and it's 14, he's 14 times older than Buffy.
Kristin: And that's not even taking into account any of the hell dimension aging that's happened across seasons. We don't really even know how old he is at this point. Oh! Jenny, do you know what you just did?
Jenny: What?
Kristin: You did some…
Jenny: Oh!
NOTES: [HELLMATH jingle plays] Hellmath!
Hrishi: I know that this episode is not Doppelgangland.
Kristin: Correct.
Hrishi: Stop me if you've already talked about this this season, but I feel like this whole season is Doppelgangland. Because in this episode you get Angel playing this double role of good Angel and evil Angel just like Willow was both roles in the last episode. Then you have Buffy and Faith as these mirror images. They're so similar in all these ways but now especially Faith is clearly the evil slayer, or rogue slayer. But their sort of twindom is I think even more magnified because of their opposites. And then you have Wesley and Giles who are doppelgangers.
Kristin: [gasps] Whaaaaaaaaat?
Jenny: Yes, yes, yes.
Hrishi: I feel like there's a Lynchian kind of twin quality…
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: And even, the season begins with Buffy living a completely different life. She's run away from Sunnydale and she's living in downtown LA.
Kristin: And she gives her identity to Anne. That's how the whole thing starts. Holy shit!
Jenny: Woooow.
Hrishi: I feel like they could call the whole season three Doppelgangland.
Kristin: Yes, and we're currently calling it Season Faith but we'll allow also Doppelgangland. [laughs] When you got to Buffy and Faith I was like right and that's all of them and then there were more! Holy shit! Now where do we go?
Jenny: You know, back to vamp mansion of course.
Kristin: Back to vamp mansion where, this is good, okay so did you ever watch 90210, like the original 90210?
Hrishi: I mean I've seen it, I didn't watch it.
Kristin: There is an episode-
Jenny: That sounded like you were tied to a really, really poor condition armchair in a warehouse with your eyes clockwork oranged open, [laughs] With just 90210 playing in front of you, basically that.
Kristin: That's like that scene in lost.
Hrishi: Pretty much, that's what middle school culture was doing to me. I had to just know enough to be able to stay converse at lunch. It was against my will.
Jenny: Sure, okay.
Kristin: Well, there is an episode of 90210 where Donna and David are dating, 'cause of course. I mean I think they are just always dating but it's later on in the series and they've been dating for a really long time. Somebody breaks into the house and is about to sexually assault Donna and it's a very serious episode. David is in the house but the guy is like you can't- if you do anything I'll kill you or whatever. And so she calls to him but she says Dave and she never calls him Dave, she only calls him David so he fucking knows something is up and it's just like the power of what just a change of a name can do. This scene reminded me-
Hrishi: Oh with the "Buff"?
Kristin: Yes with the "Buff"!
Jenny: If you ever hear me call you Kris dial 911.
Kristin: Right! Exactly, but I would! I would be like something's wrong! Especially because of that episode of 90210.
Hrishi: I have seen that episode before.
Kristin: You have!
Hrishi: I mean I guess that was a momentous episode.
Kristin: Yeah, it was a big episode for them. Also I'm a person who always thinks I'm going to die in many ways and so I'm always gathering-
Hrishi: I'm with you on that.
Kristin: Yeah? I'm always gathering ways to survive. So I was like this is great information, I will use it if I'm ever in a situation like this I'll say Jenn. Right? Imagine I called you Jenn.
Jenny: Ugh! Blegh!
Kristin: What would everybody do? So anyway him saying "Buff" as a way to establish-
Jenny: To indicate to her- yeah, yeah.
Kristin: I just thought it was really good.
Jenny: You know what else is really good?
Kristin: What?
Jenny: "Bondage looks good on you B."
Kristin: Yeah! another small but powerful erotic novel.
Jenny: It's more of an erotic novella by our standards. So now we get Buffy Buffy, Buffy. Faith's explosion of everything that she has not been expressing really this whole time.
Kristin: I call this the Marsha, Marsha, Marsha moment. It's just like, "Buffy this and Buffy that and no one ever cares about me."
Hrishi: "Does anybody thank me?"
Kristin: Right and, no!
Jenny: I mean she's right, she's got a point.
Kristin: She does have a point. What were you gonna say?
Hrishi: I just was thinking before we got to this part that Angel is incredibly effective at knocking people out with one punch.
Jenny: Oh yes.
Kristin: Truly.
Jenny: It's almost as if someone were in a room writing what should happen and then it just happens as they decree.
Kristin: As they will? I don't know Angel's a pretty big guy, I'd buy it.
Hrishi: And he's had a lot of experience punching people, so he knows the exact angle-
Jenny: Right, right, the sweet spot.
Hrishi: And the spot on their jaw to hit them to knock them out. But he goes two for two with Xander and Buffy.
Kristin: Yeah, that's true.
Hrishi: He's gotta hit Buffy a lot harder than he does Xander, if he hit Xander with the same- if we were gonna do some math here, if he were to hit Xander with the same velocity with which he hit Buffy he would've broken that guy's face.
Kristin: Yeah, Xander would not be alive.
Hrishi: Not just bruised but he couldn't hit Buffy with the same strength that he hit Xander or else she would just brush it off.
Kristin: Right, unless he did hit Buffy with the same- just so he didn't- and she's acting.
Hrishi: Ahh, because she doesn't actually- right.
Jenny: The world's third best actor.
Kristin: [laughs] I don't know about that. I think she might be down at number 412 or something.
Jenny: How…
Kristin: Hey! She's good at a lot of stuff.
Jenny: Okay, okay, okay.
Kristin: Acting isn't one of them.
Jenny: To be clear we're just talking about Buffy not Sarah Michelle Gellar.
Kristin: Oh my God, no! You know we're not talking about Sarah Michelle Gellar. So Buffy goes hard on Faith and I-
Jenny: Well, she's trying to get everything out of her but it does feel-
Kristin: It's a little risky!
Jenny: She's feeling the hurt while this is happening and she's going a bit harder than she intended to.
Kristin: I just feel like if I knew Faith, I feel like I know Faith, and I would not take this risk. And Faith says "Oh I know what you're trying to do, you're trying to get me to kill you quicker or whatever and I'm not gonna do that." And it's like cool, because it's Tuesday but on Wednesday Faith might have just been like fuck this and killed- and Angel's not even close enough to get in between- I don't know, I just felt like it was a little too risky for my tastes.
Hrishi: Even knowing that Buffy's hands weren't actually chained?
Kristin: Ooooooo! I forgot.
Jenny: Great point.
Kristin: I forgot that she wasn't chained.
Hrishi: She wasn't defenseless.
Jenny: Right, right, significantly less cause for alarm.
Kristin: Okay, that helps me out.
Jenny: Then she calls Faith a loser! Apparently the number one hot button word for Faith. Just don't call her a loser.
Kristin: Yeah, and I mean she gets what she's after but I just hate it. I mean I don't know, as is always the case I wish for a better world where this isn't the way that we have to get the information from Faith. We don't have to break Faith to get to the mayor. It just sucks, I don't like it but it is effective and we learn- yes, Jenny?
Jenny: Oh please.
Kristin: No, I was just gonna say we learn all the things we need to learn about what's gonna happen and we hear "graduation day" for the first time. What were you gonna say with your gasping hands?
Jenny: I was gonna say I love this kibbles and bits reference. I don't know if you remember kibbles and bits, popular pet food from our youth.
Kristin: I remember kibbles and bits but I don't remember the reference.
Jenny: Oh, she just says all your friends are gonna be Kibbles and Bits, or did she say that? Yeah she says that.
Hrishi: Yeah, upon ascension day.
Jenny: Yes, yes, yes, so my question related to this is everyone, did you ever eat dog food when you were a kid?
Kristin: 100%
Hrishi: Nooooooooo.
Kristin: Never?
Hrishi: No.
Kristin: Really? Were you ever in a position where people were asking you to eat dog food? [laughs]
Hrishi: No, I didn't have a dog.
Kristin: Neither did I but I definitely ate dog food.
Hrishi: Wow, no I never have.
Kristin: It was like a thing I feel like. Not a thing, it wasn't like eating tide pods.
Jenny: I- what's- wait?
Kristin: People are eating tide pods.
Jenny: Yeah, what is that?
Kristin: I don't know, I just keep seeing it on the internet, maybe it will be over by the time this airs. [laughs] One can hope.
Jenny: Great, I've never eaten Kibbles and Bits but I have sampled Milk Bones and Snausages. So only dog snacks, no dog food, kibble.
Kristin: Oh my God, do you have like a list somewhere of which brands you've tried?
Jenny: Just in my head, it's a short list! It's two, it's really hard to forget.
Kristin: I would have no idea what kind of dog food I ate. So let's get serious for a second.
Jenny: Serious like two girls holding knives to each other's throats?
Kristin: But this is like, "kill me you become me, you're not ready for that". And then she kisses her on the forehead-
Jenny: Slash lips.
Kristin: But it's supposed to be lips and she says, "yet" and she leaves. [sighs]
Hrishi: That little mexican standoff scene with the two knives, that's an iconic shot right? We see that scene in the future don't we? In promos and things like that.
Jenny: Oh in like previously on?
Hrishi: Yeah, things like that.
Jenny: Oh yeah, I'm sure.
Hrishi: Or maybe even in future credits or something like that. When that scene- I was like oh it's this scene!
Jenny: It's also highly gif-ed right?
Kristin: I think so, I think it's highly gif-ed.
Hrishi: Maybe that's what it is, maybe I'm just thinking of it from the-
Kristin: No, I'm sure we must see it on dozens, dozens [laughs] but a lot of previously ons as well because it is-
Hrishi: Even if it isn't it deserves to be. That's such a good-
Jenny: I'm constantly running it on my own personal previously on in my brain, just that. [All laugh] I just had a thought parallel to this 'cause I was like wow, what if they ran away and were rogue- it would be a whole different show. I would like a fanfic situation where that is the path. That's not what I wanna talk about. What I wanna talk about is why hasn't anybody thought about the fact, the council, there's all these people in tweed with so much money and so many resources. Buffy drowned for like a minute and then there was a second slayer after there had only been one slayer. Why aren't they like I don't think that this is cool-
Kristin: [laughs] Jenny!
Jenny: -but why aren't they killing these girls for a minute, reviving them and just multiplying the number of slayers and making a slayer army? This is a terrible-
Kristin: This sounds like animal cruelty.
Jenny: No! It sounds horrifying but they clearly have no problem-
Kristin: Yeah, they don't care.
Jenny: -with what they're already doing with the lives of young women.
Kristin: Well I think it underlines the fact that white men wearing tweed that live in castles and have a lot of money don't always fucking think about shit very well so…
Jenny: Fascinating assessment.
Kristin: That's my take, that's my assessment. But I'm glad that they are not doing that.
Jenny: No! Jesus, me too but I'm also kind of surprised because they don't seem to value the lives of slayers very much.
Kristin: To take us out of this dark, dark corner…
Jenny: Sorry.
Hrishi: But they do adhere to rules, they have rules that they care about even when the rules are making things harder for themselves.
Kristin: Yeah, don't make any sense.
Jenny: Right, right, right, okay.
Hrishi: And so even if it's not a rule born out of value of a slayer's life it might be something they follow based on their love of rules.
Jenny: Cool, alright.
Kristin: I believe it.
Jenny: I'd get into that.
Hrishi: Not love, but you know strict adherence.
Kristin: Can we give out the sexual tension award?
Jenny: Let's do it.
Kristin: Great.
NOTES: [SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays] Sexual tension award!
Kristin: Did you have any thoughts about sexual tension, any nominees?
Jenny: It can be between the alive and the undead, it can be between sentient creatures and say a leatherbound book of french poetry.
Kristin: We gave it to Angel and his leatherbound book of clues.
Hrishi: But it's between two?
Jenny: Well, sometimes it's a throuple.
Kristin: Actually the winner of all of season two was the throuple of Spike, Dru and Angel.
Hrishi: I hadn't thought about it before but I was off the top of my head so to speak I would give it to Skylar because he's clearly so horny.
Kristin: Woooooooow! Wow, wow. That's incredible off the top of your head.
Hrishi: 'Cause he had the hat and he took it off the top of his head and revealed that he had horns.
Kristin: Beautiful.
Jenny: Truly.
Hrishi: Sorry, let's cut out that last part where I explained the joke.
Kristin: We have all the power. Okay yes Skylar, and my vote was, you know, Faith and Buffy.
Jenny: Yeah of course but…
Hrishi: Obviously yeah, I mean that's the real answer.
Kristin: It's because- okay so we've given it- Faith and Buffy, the deck is really stacked season three with a lot of Faith and Buffy but I just feel like because of the script revelation that they were robbed of a very important kiss and so I just wanted to give them the award.
Jenny: Of course I back you and I stand in solidarity… with you in support of two girls… in all the world, chosen… with the power… to fight… the forces of darkness and also kiss each other on the mouths occasionally when it is appropriate. So yes truly yes.
Kristin: That whole thing, you said that whole thing just to say yes?
Jenny: Yeah, I'm just supporting you.
Kristin: Incredible. You're all like I just wanna say that although I-
Jenny: I just like making lots of pauses for you to edit out.
Kristin: Yeah seriously.
Jenny: As many as possible.
Kristin: So then we of course learn that the reason this was all able to happen is because Giles introduced- does the other demon have a name?
Jenny: The Sorcerer.
Kristin: The Sorcerer, is his name? That Giles introduced the sorcerer to his wife which is just delightful. You don't like it?
Hrishi: It's a delightful reason but the plot device of it is so annoying.
Kristin: Right, that's fair.
Hrishi: But yes, very cute that he introduced him to his wife.
Kristin: Just the idea of Giles being like you know who you'd get on with?
Hrishi: Have you ever met the Sorceress? Because something about you two… She's the lady over there in all black.
Jenny: Yeah, with the glowing orange eyes.
Kristin: [laughs] That's funny 'cause in my mind Giles was like have you ever met Emily? You know what I mean? So-
Jenny: So.
Kristin: Faith goes back to the mayor and-
Hrishi: And now everyone knows she's bad.
Kristin: And now everyone's lost their hope in her and their suspicions were confirmed and, yes Jenny?
Jenny: You know when the Sorcerer came to Giles and was like the mayor of your town wants me to de-ensoul this vampire who I guess I somehow know that you have an association to did he also say, "and also Faith is working for the mayor" because it feel like there's not as much of a-
Kristin: Oh, like a shock?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: That's super fair, yeah that's true, sometimes I forget that we know things that they didn't know.
Hrishi: But it does kind of go with what you were saying that they have sort of maltreated her the entire time. Maybe they suspected or certainly they didn't treat her like a beloved friend in a way that when it's revealed that oh she's working for the mayor they could tell themselves oh she's evil, we kind of knew all along.
Kristin: And that's why I'm so sad about it because I think we've all had the experience of having an interaction with somebody where you know that their perception of you is different than who you are. I don't know, it just bums me out because I feel like Faith, probably from the get go, has sensed that. That these people don't- they're not making a sincere effort and we saw them make a sincere effort a couple episodes ago but it's like she's been here since episode three!
Jenny: And she's been living in a motel! A crappy motel in the bad part of town.
Kristin: And there's a series of things that happen that were unfortunate like what would have happened if Wesley hadn't gone behind everyone's back and taken Faith away and if she had just stayed with Angel. Who knows but it just feels so sad to me because I didn't even recognize there wasn't that much of a shock. But that just sort of connects to everything else that I feel about this undoing which is just a bummer. And it's sad to see her with the mayor at the end because she is genuinely happy? She's like I fucked up but this guy still believes in me and he just wants to play miniature golf and it seems so sweet and simple to her but it's not because the mayor is evil.
Hrishi: Faith is really this long running argument for nature versus nurture. She is a chosen slayer and yet something happened that she's come out a rogue slayer. And then you have Buffy who has this wholesome support system around her and she's becoming this model slayer. It makes it so sad, I even felt bad when I said oh now they all know she's bad because it's not that she's bad intrinsically necessarily, or at least that's a thing that the show is making you question, I think, with this episode is suddenly all these things that you know about her she's turned this way but could it have just gone a different way if she'd had different nurturing? Or had any nurturing?
Kristin: And they teased it out for us, 'cause when we were talking about doppelgangland, that was kind of the throughline of that episode too. Willow starting the episode being like well Faith is just evil Buffy you could never be like that. And then Willow coming face to face with herself in another reality and being like oh shit, you know? I don't know that they've actually understood it to the point that I want them to but it's definitely being played with and yeah! That's where it gets me, I'm just like Faith is doing her best.
Hrishi: There's a This American Life story where I think in Harlem they're trying to figure out how to increase the graduation rate of high school students. There's one guy who's got this program and he starts by trying to do after school programs with a pilot group of kids in first grade or something like that. And it still doesn't work out, they found that the intervention that you need to have in order to change the outcomes for what these kids' lives were like has to go so far back it's not first grade, it's not kindergarten, it's not pre-school. The way he actually tried to make it happen is by starting with the parents while they were pregnant.
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: Whoa.
Hrishi: And then they track the progress of these kids and so I was thinking about that with Faith. That if someone could've been there for her like that pre-slayerdom-
Kristin: Yeah, what would her life have looked like? Also when you were saying that you reminded me of, I can't remember the name of this, but there's a phrase for it. It was a study that was done where teachers were given students who were performing poorly. But some of them were given the students and told this student is performing poorly can you help? And some of the teacher's were told the student is performing poorly but they have taken these tests and they are off the charts, and it was not even true. This is a brilliant student and those students performed unbelievably because the teacher believed in their abilities.
Hrishi: And treated them differently as a result.
Kristin: Which again, ties back to this, what would happen if her life circumstances were different and what would happen if people believed in her. Obviously we're looking at this through the lens of Faith but this applies to a lot of our country and our world and the way that things are structured and how people believe and look at certain people and not other people. Anyway Buffy needs a break from Angel, these two are gonna try to take a break again. I don't know if anybody wants to take the over and under on that.
Jenny: Classic Buffy and Angel trying to take a break.
Kristin: [laughs] But they have a moment that I'll bring up because they bring the theme song in. Where he says are you still my girl and she says always and we get this-
Jenny: A little bit of Close Your Eyes.
Kristin: Yeah, it's like four notes of it and then it changes really quickly. I would like to hear all of the iterations of, what is it? Close My Eyes?
Jenny: No, Close Your Eyes.
Kristin: Close Your Eyes, [laughs] Close My Eyes! It would be nice to hear them all next to each other because there's so many different variations that they have throughout the series.
Hrishi: And now I have a rare moment of feeling bad for Angel [Jenny laughs]. I mean he did what she asked him to do, he played the part and then she punishes him for it because he did it too well 'cause he is the best actor. [All laugh]
Kristin: But they had to know that they were taking a risk going into this. They're reliving their deepest trauma which they had to know. I mean I feel bad too but it's sort of like when you go into that maybe they didn't realize what it was gonna feel like. But I felt like as the viewer, man if you're gonna like relive that and so vividly relive it, because as we discussed Angel is really good at acting it's not a surprise. I just feel like it wouldn't be that big of a surprise that she's gonna need some space from that. And of course she's gonna be the one that needs the space not him.
Hrishi: He had his internal compass totally calibrated; she was the one who's taken aback by seeing it.
Kristin: Yeah, I mean she had to see him with Faith also.
Jenny: With Faith also but definitely the PTSD of the second half of season two and ultimately having to kill Angel and send him to hell! And then get over that and then have him drop out of the sky for reasons unknown-
Kristin: Naked.
Jenny: Back into existence, naked and wet. Glistening. And then having to re-integrate him into her life, get him from his beast mode back into-
Kristin: His beauty mode? I was pulling from the title, it's called Beauty and the Beasts.
Jenny: Holy shit. And then like dating him, not dating him, dating him, not dating him, and then this. It's so much for one slayer.
Kristin: Yeah, it's a lot. It's almost as if we only have a few episodes left of the season. You know?
Jenny: I thought you were gonna say it's almost as if this show is really dramatic. So I feel like we've covered all the important aspects of this episode but one thing that we haven't touched on is that one time in highland park I saw Hrishi from far away. I don't even know how I knew what you looked like because I listen to your podcasts but I saw you from far away and was like I think that's- and we were with Kristin's family. They were in from out of town and I was like excuse me everyone I'm gonna jog a block away from you and then you're gonna watch me almost get to this guy and then chicken out and then turn around.
Kristin: She made it a foot, she was so close.
Jenny: I was like ten feet away and then I was like nope today's not my day and then I ran away.
Hrishi: What was I doing?
Jenny: You were walking like a person would on the street, I think with your wife or a woman. But statistically probably your wife.
Hrishi: She also enjoys walking.
Jenny: Classic wife, and you were just taking in the sights and sounds of York Boulevard probably buying some stationary or like a burger or something and being not bothered by me.
Hrishi: Aww, I'm sad I would have loved to be bothered by you.
Kristin: That's what I said, that's how I got her to jog in the first place. She was like, "I couldn't possibly, I couldn't." I was like, "go, it would be so nice! Wouldn't it make you feel nice if somebody jogged up to you and said I really love all these things you do, they're so wonderful?"
Jenny: Or depending on the person, like I would be delighted but also you know I would hate to alarm someone or rupture your beautiful Sunday when you're just trying to hang out in sunshine.
Kristin: Instead you thought the better thing would be to do this and then invite you over to our home and tell you the story.
Jenny: Yes, trap you here! Muahahaha! Once I saw you but you didn't see me.
Kristin: Yes, everyone's favorite narrative.
Jenny: [laughs] Yikes. Great, well that's handled.
Kristin: Would you be so kind as to tell everyone, I think that everyone listening to this knows where they can find you but would you tell them all where to find you.
Hrishi: I'm on twitter @hrishihirway, my name's hard to spell it's h-r-i-s-h-i h-i-r-w-a-y nobody listening to this is gonna bother writing that down but, you know.
Kristin: I feel like you were spelling it and you paused for a second and you were like wait how do I spell it?
Hrishi: I was paused realizing how silly it is to bother spelling it out.
Kristin: I don't know, I spell my twitter handle every episode.
Hrishi: Oh okay, okay good.
Kristin: So don't feel bad, they're very accustomed to having things spelled out for them.
Jenny: This is a safe space for that.
Hrishi: The same thing on instagram if you're more of an instagram person. I have Song Exploder the podcast and I have The West Wing Weekly podcast and you can find those wherever you got this podcast. And I make music and we don't need to talk about that.
Kristin: I was listening to your music today.
Jenny: We'll talk about it when you're not here.
Kristin: And I was loving it! I was at the gym and I went from listening to Wilson Phillips because I don't know, I had sent a Wilson Phillips song to somebody and then I was at the gym and it was on my thing and I was like I could work out to Wilson Phillips. So I went from listening to Wilson Phillips to listening to your music and they were very different as you might imagine but I loved everything that I heard.
Hrishi: Aw, thanks.
Kristin: I was in Spotify just going down the-
Hrishi: I was thinking about, there's one song that I was gonna tell you about because it's a song about me thinking about all the ways that I'm gonna die.
Kristin: Oh my gosh!
Hrishi: It's called Credible Threats.
Kristin: Oh yes, they are credible threats. [laughs]
Hrishi: And it's just me listing all of the ways that I think about how I might die and how to get over it.
Kristin: Oh wow, I will be listening to that song immediately, it sounds like you've written my anthem!
Jenny: Oh my God.
Kristin: But yeah, and of course all of the stuff will be in the show notes so you can find all of the wonderful things that Hrishi does, so great. So great to have you.
Hrishi: Thank you so much for having me, this was really fun.
Kristin: Ah! It was the best and we know that we have possibly inspired you to do a second watch of Buffy.
Hrishi: Oh yeah, and I mean if there's ever a chance for me to come back?
Kristin: Oh yeah.
Jenny: We would love that.
Hrishi: I would love to.
Kristin: Hell yes. Would you mind staying to howl out with us?
Hrishi: Yes.
Kristin: You don't know what that means but that's even funnier that you just agreed, you were like, "yes I will!"
Hrishi: I think I said yes I would mind, let me change it no, I wouldn't mind.
Kristin: Great.
Jenny: Well, I am Jenny Owen Youngs and when I'm not making this podcast or listening to Song Exploder or listening to The West Wing Weekly I am making hot, hot jams. You can hear some of them over at jennyowenyoungs.com/buffering. And you can always give me a shout on twitter @jennyowenyoungs.
Kristin: Yes, and I am Krist- I almost said I am Kristin Noeline, I am Kristin Russo but you can-
Jenny: You're both!
Kristin: I am both, one and the same. You can find more about me on my website which is kristinnoeline.com, that's k-r-i-s-t-i-n-n-o-e-l-i-n-e. You can also use that spelling to find me on twitter and on instagram where I talk a lot. I post a lot of pictures of our cat, you know all sorts of fun things happen in those spaces. Last but certainly not least you can find out about the work that I do with LGBTQ communities over at everyoneisgay.com and mykidisgay.com.
Jenny: Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on twitter, facebook and instagram @bufferingcast and you can always email us at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin: You can support our work in a couple of ways, of course going over to itunes where you can rate and review the podcast thereby allowing others to find us, hooray. You can also support our work on Patreon, you can find that at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com just click on Patreon and you'll see that there are a few levels of giving, you get really fun things in exchange. Last but not least you can of course go to our store and purchase t-shirts, designed by people like Kristin Thune, Isabella Rotman and Mallory Volk and Diane Cres Gay so many t-shirts, so many enamel pins and for the next two weeks you can go to our store, check out the new design by Kristin Thune, it reads "Be the thing that monsters have nightmares about" and it will be for sale for the next two weeks with 100% of the proceeds going to benefit Time's Up. Also a reminder that we have five new lyric sheets up for the month of February going to benefit the Brown Boi Project doing incredible work with LGBTQ communites of color and gender. You can read more about them at brownboiproject.org, that's brown b-o-i project dot com. Thank you all so much and Jenny I think we're ready.
Jenny: Till next time!
All: Awooooooooooooooooooooooo!
Hrishi: Subscribe to Candle Box. [Jenny performing "Enemies" from the album "Songs from Season Three" by Buffering the Vampire Slayer] I can't really say I never trusted you that wouldn't be right but how can anybody feel close to you Indefinitely Never go looking for what you can't find Doesn't feel right but guess we're goin separate ways Tonight How could you and me, you and me ever be ever be enemies You and me, you and me I thought you and me, you and me could never be never be enemies You and me, you and me I can't really figure out where we went wrong Shoulda said something else Maybe I coulda done some of these things Differently Couldn't handle half a dose of you being so stone cold Thought I was invincible but I was wrong How could you and me, you and me ever be ever be enemies You and me, you and me I thought you and me, you and me could never be never be enemies You and me, you and me I can't really say I never trusted you How can anybody feel close to you How could you and me, you and me ever be ever be enemies You and me, you and me I thought you and me, you and me could never be never be enemies You and me, you and me