Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 4:02: Living Conditions
Jenny: Hey everybody! Uh, hey. It's Jenny.
Kristin: And Kristin.
Jenny: From before [Chuckles]
Kristin: Yup. Hi!
Jenny: You might remember us.
Kristin: [Chuckles]
Jenny: Before we get started with today's episode we have a few things to talk to you about.
Kristin: Yes we do.
Jenny: First of all, in case you have missed this memo, we are so, so excited to have Laura Zak and Brittany Ashley on board with us covering everybody's favorite detective Angel via their new podcast, Angel on Top.
Kristin: Yes, it started last week, and as you have probably learned we are going every other week, and they are in between us.
Jenny: Yeah. It's like a never ending sandwich…
NOTES: [Both start speaking at the same time with excitement]
Kristin: Yup, just Buffy Angel Buffy Angel Buffy Angel
Jenny: Four ladies…
Kristin: Oh yeah or….sure sure. Ok.
Jenny: Ok. Both ways!
Kristin: [Laughs] Also, we have some new stuff in our store that we want to let you know about.
Jenny: Yes. Yes. Yes.
Kristin: We have a tote bag that says "Just Keep Fighting." It's a black tote bag with white text. It looks rad. We have a new "Just Keep Fighting" t-shirt that's in bright summery colors. We have Jenny's favorite item. What is it Jenny?
Jenny: Diner mug!
Kristin: A diner mug that says
Jenny: A "Smash the demon lizard patriarchy" diner mug. Hot hot hot hot hot hot.
Kristin: Yes. Super, super fun. So you can go and check that out. Bufferingthevampireslayer.com. Just click on "shop".
Jenny: Also, we will be doing a live taping in Brooklyn, New York on July 8th. We are so excited! We will be taping our episode for Beer Bad.
Kristin: [Chuckles] Beer is so bad.
Jenny: Beer the worst.
Kristin: [Laughs] Yeah, we are very excited to drink beer while taping that episode.
Jenny: We'll need the beer!
Kristin: We will. We'll all need that beer. So yeah, you can find out information and get your tickets at bufferingthevampireslayer.com/beerbad. It'll take you to the ticketing page. One more thing before we go into today's episode. Some of you have probably already seen our posts on social media. As of, what is it, a week and a half ago. But we know that not everybody uses social media, and even if you do, algorithms are weird, and maybe you haven't seen the announcement that we made. So, we'd like to read the announcement that we posted, so that we're all on the same page about something that Jenny and I have been moving through for the last few months.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: So, we're going to read to you. It's easier for us.
Jenny: Alternating paragraphs.
Kristin: Yup.
Jenny: Like a team.
Kristin: Like a team.
Jenny: As some of you already know, Kristin and I have been moving through a difficult time over the past few months. We live a complicated life where a lot of our personal experiences are public, and we feel very thankful for that in many ways because of how it connects us to all of you. We have spent the past nine years in each other's lives and the past five years married. We have been through so much together, including creating a podcast which has grown a community that astounds us every day.
Kristin: Over the past several months we have uncovered a difficult truth, which we know will be surprising to many of you as it was surprising to both of us. We've come to realize that we will be better, both to ourselves and to each other, within the context of a friendship rather than a marriage.
Jenny: One of our top priorities as we move through our separation is continuing to cultivate the beautiful community that has been created by Buffering the Vampire Slayer. While we know that there have been and will be bumps along the way, we have every intention of continuing to produce Buffering together. We have been privately moving through this for several months, and your collective love has been much of what has supported us. There will undoubtedly be some temporary structural changes as we move to heal the parts that hurt the most, but we are still here, and we are still with you all.
Kristin: We also know that queer love is a very powerful thing to witness. With that in mind, we still want you all to know that our love was and is still powerful, and that we care very deeply for one another, and that our split will not change that fundamental truth. We know that you'll respect our privacy during this difficult time, and we appreciate you all the more for it. So, sorry to read that to you, but I feel like we put a lot of work into the words, and they would do us better justice than trying to fumble our way to saying new words right now.
Jenny: … On the fly. Yeah.
Kristin: Yeah, and as of the taping of this we have posted that on social media, and we have not even looked at social media. But from the reports that we've received, the only thing happening out there is love and support for us, and we… you know, we didn't expect anything less, honestly. But we appreciate you all for it. Yeah, and we'll be moving through it, you know? Season 4 is going to be us moving through some stuff, some hard stuff together, and some hard stuff apart. And you all are really one of the biggest reasons that we've been able to move through it as gracefully as we have so far.
Jenny: Truly.
Kristin: So, thank you all. Thank you all for your love. Thank you all for continuing to believe in us. And thank you all for your patience as we move through what is uncharted territory. Right, Jenny?
Jenny: [Takes a deep breath] That's right.
Kristin: [Laughs]
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Shall we go into this episode?
Jenny: Yeah. You know what would help… would really lift my spirits right about now?
Kristin: Some Buffy?
Jenny: Talking about Kathy!
Kristin: [Laughs] Let's do it.
NOTES: [Theme music plays]
Jenny: Hello, and welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast where we are watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer one at a time, spoiler-free. I am Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: And I am Kristin Russo, and this week we're talking about Season 4
Episode 2: Living Conditions, which I like to refer to as Season College, Episode…
Jenny: [Hum-sings Believe by Cher]
Kristin: I think you should try again. You did a really good Cher earlier.
Jenny: Oh, [laughs] You want like full Cher?
Kristin: Yeah, I want you to do what you were doing while you walked up the stairs.
Jenny: Nooo! It's too much.
Kristin: Season college episode…
Jenny: [starts to try but cracks up] No, why don't we just let Cher do it?
Kristin: Okay.
NOTES: [Clip from Believe by Cher plays] Do you believe in life after love? I can feel something inside me say I really don't think you're strong enough, no
Kristin: Beautiful, taking me back to the 90s and how.
Jenny: I think her Cher impression is better than mine.
Kristin: That Cher's Cher impression is better than yours?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Yours is good though, just so everybody knows Jenny can do a pretty good Cher impression but apparently only for me.
Jenny: You'll never hear it.
Kristin: [laughs] Stay tuned at the end of this podcast every week for an original song written by us recapping the Buffy episode we are discussing.
Jenny: Living Conditions was written by Marti Noxon and directed by David Grossman and it originally aired on October 12th 1999.
Kristin: This is the one where Buffy finds herself at odds with her new roommate and is troubled by a series of disturbing dreams involving a soul sucking demon.
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: This is the one with Kathy.
Jenny: Kathy!
Kristin: Oh my god, have you ever seen anyone better at being passive aggressive in your life?
Jenny: There is no better person that they could have cast, there is no better series of events and dialogue that could have been written. This is the perfect passive aggressive roommate situation.
Kristin: And the build of it- I'm sure that you all felt the way we felt watching this, it's like every time Kathy inserts herself into another thing you scream at the television like noooo! Kathy, again!
Jenny: Yeah, Kathy again.
Kristin: But yeah a perfect series of shit, it starts strong.
Jenny: She irons her jeans! And listens to Cher!
Kristin: I mean listening to Cher is a fun way of illustrating that Kathy is listening to the divas on VH1.
Jenny: Or she's just listening to one Cher song over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over again.
Kristin: Right, okay [laughs] Solid illustrative point Jenny.
Jenny: Thank you.
Kristin: But Cher was a big part of my listening rotation as a gay person in the 90s. Did you not frequent gay dance clubs?
Jenny: No, sure didn't.
Kristin: Well I'll tell you if you had Jenny, you would have danced
Jenny: All Cher all the time?
Kristin: [laughs] All Cher all the time. So Cher alone is not enough to round out Kathy for me but the repetition of the song along with ironing her jeans, along with this scene where she's like "going out? Oh, I just didn't realize" Ugh! Kathy.
Jenny: And the phone call log system, we should explain for our younger listeners of course that once upon a time when you were at college and you used the landline, your room had a landline, you would get charged at the end of every semester for outbound calls.
Kristin: So you would often use
Jenny: What's wild is that Buffy and Willow are just calling each [other] She cites when Buffy and Willow have an intercampus call.
Kristin: Intercampus calls don't count.
Jenny: That's trash.
Kristin: Yeah, that is trash but also did you ever use- instead of my roommates and I making long distance calls on our line and then itemizing the bill we just had calling cards.
Jenny: Yeah, we had a call ID number that we would punch in.
Kristin: Calling cards, do you remember calling cards?
Jenny: Yes, I used them to call my friends that I made on internet chat rooms.
Kristin: [laughs] Let me just tell you, for the uninitiated in the world of calling cards, you have never hit so many buttons in your whole [life]
Jenny: So… many… buttons.
Kristin: And you mess up one at the end and you have to start all the way back at the beginning again. You'd dial the 1-800 number and it'd be like "Now enter your pin" and then you'd enter your pin, and then it'd be like "Now enter your calling card number" and then you enter your calling card number, and then it'd be like "Now enter the number you want to dial" and if you fucked up one fucking digit [sighs] it was really- anyway.
Jenny: Yeah, it was intensive.
Kristin: It was intensive, so thanks for sticking with our calling card phone lesson of this episode. Also an appearance by a couple of things that mean something to me. One is Jolt, Buffy's like "I'm gonna get a Jolt" You remember Jolt, the soda?
Jenny: I thought she was just casually referring to like: I'm gonna go get some caffeine, like a jolt of caffeine.
Kristin: Oh, but you can't just say a jolt in the 90s and not mean a Jolt.
Jenny: Really?
Kristin: I don't know, do you wanna get in our time capsule and see?
Jenny: I don't think Jolt was such a part of my life, I think Surge maybe is a little more familiar to me. Also do you remember Fruitopia?
Kristin: Yes, of course.
Jenny: [laughs] I hit on something for myself.
Kristin: [laughs] The other thing that really struck me and I think will strike you too Jenny is milk is a really big part of this episode.
Jenny: Grooooossss.
Kristin: [laughs] Milk is here
Jenny: Booooooo.
Kristin: Chris Farren if you're listening milk is here, it's one of your favorite episodes I'm sure of the series.
Jenny: Now listen, how did Kathy notice that some milk was missing if Buffy just used some in her coffee?
Kristin: She measures her pencils to make sure they're the same length.
Jenny: True.
Kristin: She probably had a mark on where the fucking milk was. Shesucks. Also
Jenny: One time- Oh, sorry.
Kristin: Yes one time? One time at band camp…
Jenny: One time I was living with someone and the situation was extremely passive aggressive for reasons we don't need to get into. But they left post it notes all over food in the fridge that said "not yours".
Kristin: [gasps] Not yours! It's basically what Kathy does but with Kathy's name. I had a situation, it wasn't my roommate but the girl that I was dating it was her roommate, and when he felt that she didn't clean the apartment enough he would take his shower and then take comet and put comet all at the bottom of the tub so that when she got up she literally couldn't take a shower without cleaning the tub cause she'd have to stand in the comet.
Jenny: Who the fuck did that?
Kristin: [laughs] Well that happened to Jen Robeco my ex Jen Robeco.
Jenny: Oh… my… god.
Kristin: I won't name the roommate just in case, don't wanna drag any humans through the mud here but yeah, pretty fucked up right?
Jenny: Wow!
Kristin: Yeah, One thing I wanna say about this scene too and just generally, Dagney Kerr, I don't know if that's how you say this actresses name but she's amazing. She's amazing! And there's a moment in this scene where she goes back to iron her jeans and she looks back at Buffy and does this Kathy grin like hey guys! You know and it's just so good! Ahh! Kathy, one of my favorite characters of all time.
Jenny: [laughs] Wow!
Kristin: Like favorite to hate, you know she just fucking nails it! I've never seen anyone play a passive aggressive roommate better than Dagney Kerr.
Jenny: Yeah, amazing.
Kristin: Sorry if I'm saying your name wrong but there you have it. Soanyway
Jenny: So we see Buffy go out into campus and she's talking to Willow andthen of course there's a glowy-eyed demon watching them
Kristin: Yes there is but before we see the glowy-eyed demon Willow has a line that I feel like you probably wrote down too Jenny.
Jenny: What's that? Oh, "We put the grr in girl".
Kristin: "We put the grr in girl" Willow's going hard on college, you know?
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah.
Kristin: She's learning all about fucking riot girl and
Jenny: Yeah, yeah she's buying some bikini kill CDs.
Kristin: Putting up some Tori Amos posters on her walls, just saying. Anyway then we go to the credits.
Jenny: And they're still what they were last week, Giles still has a chainsaw and a tuxedo.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Oh my god imagine if he was wielding a chainsaw while wearing the tuxedo?
Kristin: Wow, one can only hope. We still have three seasons maybe it'll happen.
Jenny: And if not we have our dreams. Soooooo… Oh, this is so upsetting! Buffy's just out, ready to go to work, patrol and then ugghhhh!
Kristin: Yeah this is the first, the first moment where you're like
Jenny: Oh look it's Kathy! She wants a decaf latte, it sounds like heaven!
Kristin: She's always bouncing too, she's just very light on her feet, Kathy, you know? Also those capri- the styling of Kathy is also spot on.
Jenny: Oh my god, it's just so hateful. They were like how can we make this person the most hateable? Capri pants!
Kristin: Buffy says "mom of momdomia" or whatever and they nail it, she's wearing white capri pants with this short haircut and she's listening to divas.
Jenny: Yep, yep, yep.
Kristin: They really nail it, also when she gets thrown into the bushes and then comes out of the bushes she says my favorite line in the episode which is "what the blizzard!" [both laugh] It's just really good.
Jenny: Oh my god!
Kristin: So Buffy fights off the glowy eyed demon, Kathy's sweater is ruined!
Jenny: Oh my god, the way that she says "look at my sweater, it's ruined" Ahhh!! It's kind of hard- I've watched this episode three times in the last couple of weeks.
Kristin: Ooh, that's a lot of Kathy.
Jenny: It's a hard episode to watch and endure.
Kristin: So we get a momentary break from Kathy into one of our favorite ongoing arcs of this season so far which is fucking Giles.
Jenny: Bachelor Giles, listen Buffy is just straight up going through his mail, that is a federal offense.
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah, he's looking at what? Mopeds?
Jenny: Yeah, he's got a little scooter and motorcycle magazine coming through and gets back from a run and he's like mmm you've caught me, I'm a mod jogger.
Kristin: "A mod jogger" Also Giles runs, that's a thing, that's a new thing for Giles. I didn't picture him jogging when he was a librarian so I feel like it's a new habit.
Jenny: No, yeah it's definitely a retiree Giles kind of habit he's picking up.
Kristin: Right, yeah he needs to get out of the house, he needs to have some reason to get out of the house. We know Olivia is keeping him in thehouse but
Jenny: Well Olivia has probably gone back to London.
Kristin: I know, but a girl can dream. [laughs] Also Buffy wants to hang out with Giles.
Jenny: "What are you doing today?" I love how he's like "It's actually a big day for me, my friend got a new translation of this demon encyclopedia".
NOTES: [laughs]
Kristin: So this is a cute thing and Giles now is giving some dadly advice and tries to do so in the beginning of the episode where he's like "Hey, you've never lived with anybody before and it's tricky and you just need to stick it out".
Jenny: And Buffy counters with "Well, she measures her pencils when she sharpens them to make sure they're all the same length".
Kristin: Which, I have to be real, if Buffy was telling me the things that she's telling anybody about Kathy. I would be like "You're right, she's a demon".
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah, kill her.
Kristin: You know, spot on, you should kill her yeah. Go for it.
Jenny: Also if you told me that your roommate had a husband pillow that was cloud patterned… demon evidence.
Kristin: [laughs] Also does everyone know that those are called "husband pillows"? It just slipped right out of your mouth like it was a normal thing to call a pillow.
Jenny: Well, it's what they're called because you know why?
Kristin: Yes, cause they hold you up, they support you from behind, the way a husband should.
Jenny: Or because…
NOTES: [The Patriarchy jingle plays]
Jenny: Mm-hm!
Kristin: [laughs] Good one Jenny.
Jenny: Thank you.
Kristin: Good call, good call. So we go back to the dorm and Kathy is fucking pissed about her fucking sweater.
Jenny: Yeah, she's trying to clean her sweater and that mud just won't come out with whatever method she's currently using, which is a scrub it dry on your knees method.
Kristin: Also this is the first moment when we see her flip the rug over very pointedly, the rug is flipped and she's like this won't do.
Jenny: [laughs] Unbelievable.
Kristin: So she looks at Buffy's closet, now I don't know if this occurred to you Jenny, but the lock on Buffy's closet is very bizarre to me because it seems to be keeping things inside of the closet. It's a deadbolt but it's on the outside so any human on the outside can just open it…
Jenny: Mmm yeah, I didn't actually notice that there was a deadbolt.
Kristin: Yeah, there's just a deadbolt that goes- because she opens it to get the sweater but it's like there's no lock until later.
Jenny: That is curious although it is Sunnydale so maybe you want to just have a small area where you can lure any kind of harmful creature, shut it in.
Kristin: That's true, you could use it for Oz just in case.
Jenny: Yep, yep, yep.
Kristin: Okay, solid point. So she takes her sweater and she sees- Kathy sees this bag of weapons.
Jenny: Crossbows and crosses and wooden stakes and she's like hmm!
Kristin: Yeah, which is weird if you're a normal girl but also I feel like it's extra weird cause she's a fucking demon, don't you think?
Jenny: Well, she's a trans-dimensional demon, maybe they don't have vampires where she comes from dimensionally.
Kristin: Or weapons?
Jenny: Or weapons, sure.
Kristin: Yeah, maybe.
Jenny: Or maybe everybody has weapons.
Kristin: [laughs] She's like these are interesting weird weapons for her to have but…
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah, archaic.
Kristin: Yeah, so she takes the sweater and then saunters off to lunch wearing it. Bold fucking move, another character development point for Kathy.
Jenny: I love that Buffy's going to get in line and sees Kathy and hides behind her lunch tray and cuts some boy.
Kristin: Super subtle.
Jenny: That is exactly what I would do. That is some prime Jenny Owen Youngs behaviour.
Kristin: [laughs] That is exactly what you would do, not subtle at all and very in line with how we've seen Buffy undercover in the past.
Jenny: [laughs] Very smooth.
Kristin: Doesn't have the smoothest of moves and yes, she's standing in line with a boy, a boy named Parker Abrams.
Jenny: Yep, yep, yep, and he's got some helpful strategic tips?
Kristin: Of course he does, he's a man Jenny.
Jenny: How to maximize- speaking of men… while he's explaining how you can get three meals out of one dining hall punch Buffy's like Oh I get it then there's more money from your dad that you get to pocket 'cause you didn't use it for meal punches 'cause dad's are where money comes from.
Kristin: Dads are, which is rude 'cause Joyce is working her ass off at the gallery.
Jenny: At the gallery! Yeah what the fuck Buffy! Although maybe her dad ispaying- helping out
Kristin: For college?
Jenny: Unknown, it's unclear.
Kristin: Is Mr. Summers paying alimony?
Jenny: We need to know.
Kristin: We would like to know.
Jenny: Probably child support and alimony. Do you think it's weird how the college, the UC Sunnydale cafeteria looks exactly like the Sunnydale High cafeteria?
Kristin: No, I don't think it's weird at all.
Jenny: Just the same architect probably? Cafeteria architect.
Kristin: Do you think the same lunch lady is back there with her rat poisonjust waiting for the right
Jenny: No, she's in prison.
Kristin: [laughs] In prison.
Jenny: She's in the Sunnydale Penitentiary.
Kristin: So right, Parker Abrams fine, Buffy's all flirting, he's all flirting, she sits down and Willow brings up a 90s reference here.
Jenny: What does she say?
Kristin: She says "he's a cutie patootie" Do you know what that is a reference to?
Jenny: Ew no, that's a reference to something?
Kristin: Yeah, Jenny hold it together.
Jenny: I hate it.
Kristin: Rosie O'Donnell called specifically Tom Cruise, but also cute boys, cutie patooties all the time on the Rosie O'Donnell show.
Jenny: That's where it comes from?
Kristin: I mean, I don't know if anyone said it before, probably a person said that before Rosie O'Donnell but I feel like if we were to look up the timeline, the timeline would match precisely to that being said all the timebecause of Rosie
Jenny: Well I hate it and I never wanna hear it ever.
Kristin: Nobody liked it except for Tom Cruise, Tom Cruise liked it.
Jenny: Mmmmm did Tom Cruise even like it?
Kristin: Maybe not, I don't know, we can ask him someday, probably not,probably we won't. Anyway
Jenny: Xander's hanging out at the cafeteria because he's not getting fed at home.
Kristin: Yeah, we're starting- I mean this is only episode two but we're learning a lot about Xander paying rent, Xander not being able to eat food in his own house without paying for it. We picked up some of these hints earlier in the series but I think we're learning a lot about Xander's home life in this season specifically.
Jenny: Yeah, it's not great.
Kristin: Xander and Oz have a couple cute moments in this episode, first one being here I think this is very nice where they start by talking about how this conversation that Parker has had is a drive by where you say something real good and then you run away before you fuck it up so that you leave the person wanting more which is cute and then they have this tag team moment where Xander's like "well of course he was like whatever, he was hit by the Buffinator" and then Oz pings it back with "Yeah, he'll be back".
Jenny: "He'll be back for sure".
Kristin: I think it's very nice to see two men supporting their female friend in a way that is not of their own gain, just building her up, they want her to feel good and I like it, I'm here for it.
Jenny: Yeah, and we're feeling good, and we're like wow this is great and then Kathy shows up!
Kristin: Yeah, my next note is just in all caps "NO! KATHY!" I have that note in my notes many times. Yes and we get one of- there's a lot of zooms in this episode. A lot of really well executed zooms and also scoring, I think thescoring of this is on point. A lot of ominous drumming and
Jenny: Like drones.
Kristin: Yeah, and so Kathy picks up the burger, takes a slow bite and wejust watch this ketchup
Jenny: Ugh!
Kristin: Fall so slowly into the weave of the sweater, never to be- that's never coming out.
Jenny: It's really upsetting but also that sweater sucked so I'm glad that Buffy has effectively lost it.
Kristin: Embroidered sweater.
Jenny: It's bejeweled, there's a flower on the… left breast.
Kristin: [laughs] Jenny looked at me panicked for one second before saying "left breast".
Jenny: I was like bosom? Left breast? Bosom? Left breast? Hmm… left breast.
Kristin: Okay, now here's
Jenny: [long gasp]
Kristin: Okay, yes Jenny?
Jenny: Are you about to say what I'm about to say?
Kristin: I think you might be one step ahead of me.
Jenny: Okay go for it.
Kristin: Because before we get to I think what you're gasping about [both laugh] I just wanna talk about the fact that this scene starts with Buffy on the phone with Willow, right?
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Willow can't hear anything because Willow's roommate literally hasa rager party happening at all hours and I think this is again
Jenny: So Willow.
Kristin: Right? It's so Willow and Buffy that this whole episode is about Buffy's demon roommate who's a nightmare, who's fucking dropping ketchup on her sweater meanwhile Willow has a raging party behind her and she's like "Yeah Buff, I don't know maybe you'll get used to it, it's okay" comforting her. Standard dynamic here, not much has changed in theirrelationship in college. Anyway to your gasp
Jenny: Ahhhhhhhh! Kathy is flossing in bed!
Kristin: Flossing… in fucking bed. Do you know what comes out of your fucking teeth when you fucking floss.
Jenny: I can't, let's not discuss it here in this sacred place.
Kristin: I can't, just upsetting.
Jenny: But just know that this is wrong!
Kristin: So now we're stacking these things, we've already seen manythings from Kathy but now she's flossing in bed, then Buffy opens
Jenny: Oh… my… god!
Kristin: The fridge and everything, including every-
Jenny: Each egg!
Kristin: Hard boiled egg.
Jenny: Each individual- also where did she hard boil those eggs at?
Kristin: Well, I'll tell you where Jenny.
Jenny: Where?
Kristin: She hard boiled those eggs in her fucking hot pot, did you not have a hot pot?
Jenny: [laughs] No! Sure didn't.
Kristin: You didn't go to college with a hot pot?
Jenny: The fuck is a hot pot?
Kristin: What the fuck are you! Are you kidding, hot pot, it's like a tea kettle but it's bigger and wider and you can make mac and cheese in it.
Jenny: Uhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh..
Kristin: Here's the things you get for college: notebooks, pencils, pens, Twhat are those calculators? T-80…?
Jenny: Oh, Texas Instruments calculators.
Kristin: Yeah, one of those calculators, you get a little bin to put your little adidas shoes in that you're gonna- shower shoes in your shower bucket, put your shower things in and you get a hot pot and you also get a Monet or a Klimt.
Jenny: I didn't have any of those- well, sorry I had notebooks and stuff but I didn't have a shower bag because by the time I moved on campus we had a bathroom in the room.
Kristin: What? Oh, right…
Jenny: And I don't think hot pots were
Kristin: You didn't have shower shoes! You just went barefoot into your shower.
Jenny: Yeah, that was probably a mistake.
Kristin: Ooph.
Jenny: But I was only sharing it with one person and it was a brand new building.
Kristin: Okay… [laughs]
Jenny: Justified!
Kristin: Jenny's really moving through some shit here.
Jenny: Yeah…
Kristin: Yeah, Hot pots were like- I mean we all had a hot pot and we would make things in them all the time. Not hard boiled eggs but I imagine thatthat's
Jenny: I feel like they were a fire hazard or something.
Kristin: You could just plug in with water.
Jenny: No, I mean I don't think we were allowed to have them because fire hazard.
Kristin: You think SUNY Binghamton allowed them and SUNY purchase didn't?
Jenny: That's right.
Kristin: Let's find out, hey scoobies, listeners, find out for us the rules on hot pots in 1999.
Jenny: Uhhh 2001.
Kristin: Oh, I was 1998, maybe that's what happened. Maybe hot pots were a big deal and then they set a lot of fires.
Jenny: A lot of campus fires happened.
Kristin: [laughs] Anyway
Jenny: Then Kathy picks up her book!
Kristin: And there's fucking gum under it. This reminded me of being a teenager actually, the gum.
Jenny: Just the gum?
Kristin: Well gum- so I dated, I don't want to scandalize anyone but I dated a girl in the late 90s.
Jenny: [gasps] Whaaaaaat!
Kristin: I dated a girl yes, her name is Randy Toll, not to name names, buther name is Randy
Jenny: Not anymore.
Kristin: Actually her name is now Randy Evans. She's married. So Randy and I dated and we also made out and Randy chewed a lot of gum and she would- we would start kissing and then she'd be like hold on a second and she would take her gum out of her mouth and she would put it on her watch face to save it for later.
Jenny: Ewwwwww!
Kristin: I mean, we were kids you know.
Jenny: Yeah, I guess you're disgusting when you're a teenager.
Kristin: You're disgusting when you're a child, yes. It never ended well, there was always gum on the- because you would forget! because we were making out, you're not gonna remember that you put gum on your fucking watch face.
Jenny: But how do you not learn?
Kristin: I don't know, being 18 I guess. Takes a longer cycle of times of getting gum in your hair or on the bed before you finally say you know what I'm just gonna throw the fucking gum out, I can get another piece of gum later. Anyway that reminded me of that, also the window becomes a thing in this scene.
Jenny: Oh my gooood, don't you think that Buffy should have control of the window that's on her side of the room?
Kristin: I do, I also think that Kathy could put a sweater on.
Jenny: Also I think Cassie could shut the fuck up.
Kristin: Cassie or Kathy?
Jenny: [laughs] Oh, did I say Cassie?
Kristin: You did.
Jenny: Whatever! I'm upset!
Kristin: And then we go to the dream, we always love a Whedon dream, you know?
Jenny: sure, sure, sure.
Kristin: They always do them well, and this is really creepy.
Jenny: Yeaaaaaahhh, there's drinking of blood, there's a scorpion on the stomach.
Kristin: Yeah, there's the sucking of a soul, very Hocus Pocus if you ask me. I would prefer if it were Sarah Jessica Parker doing this and not this glowy eyed demon personally.
Jenny: Right, right, right.
Kristin: But it's creepy and so then of course what's Buffy gonna do but tell Giles who of course is hanging out in the lobby of the college.
Jenny: Why not? Yeah, he already went for a run and saw his friend's new book, what else is he gonna do?
Kristin: [laughs] "This is our adult friend but not in a creepy way" says Willow. So Buffy- first of all Buffy's hair looks so fucking good in this scene, as a new blond I am watching Buffy and I am just trying to figure out how she gets it to do the things that she gets it to do. I think that the answer is that she has a hairstylist.
Jenny: Could be.
Kristin: But I'm into it, and she's telling everybody about her dream. This is confusing to me Jenny, okay because isn't she trying to not have people know that she's taking Buffy's soul? I'm confused, does she not realize that the dream is the ritual or? I don't know, do you have answers for me?
Jenny: No, I think she's trying to cover her tracks and be like
Kristin: And be like I had the same dream as you?!
Jenny: Yeah, like the same fucked up thing is happening to me that's happening to you. She also describes the monster as a he.
Kristin: Ohhh.
Jenny: Also does she take off her whole human suit and put on a cloak to do this ritual in the middle of the night?
Kristin: Well, right that's the thing is the ritual really happening, like she's really doing that to Buffy while Buffy sleeps?
Jenny: Yeah, totally.
Kristin: It is weird but I guess she has to cause otherwise Buffy would be dreaming that Kathy was doing that to her which I guess would still not be a tip off cause it would just be like of course you're dreaming that Kathy's a demon. But yeah, weird, if I were Kathy I would've just walked away, like not gotten involved.
Jenny: [sighs] But of course she didn't.
Kristin: Of course she didn't, she is Kathy, true. Buffy is starting to lose parts of her soul and becoming something that I'd like to bring up here, she's becoming as Willow says "a little Cordelia-esque".
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, she's getting kind of harsh.
Kristin: I mean I said it cause I wanna play the jingle.
Jenny: Ohh!!
Kristin: A little a-hem Cordelia-esque… [Cordelia Jingle plays Cordelia, ah-ah I love you Cordelia ah-ah You're perfect Cordelia ah-ah]
Jenny: Yes of course!
Kristin: Thank you, thank you so much. If you think that the name Cordelia can be said now in this television show without us playing her jingle you are mistaken my friend, mistaken. So yeah, and then whatever there's more demons chanting…
Jenny: Sometimes you have a fire in the woods, a perfect place to meet up with other cloaked demons like yourself.
Kristin: Yeah, of course.
Jenny: And they're just doing some talking in their language and we don't know what's going on.
Kristin: We don't and this whole episode of course to make us believe that the demons are after Buffy 'cause there's all this…
Jenny and Kristin: [overlapping] "she is the one".
Kristin: Right, right so obviously if we're watching this for the first time we're thinking oh no, these demons are totally after Buffy and Buffy is totally thinking it's Kathy and Kathy didn't do anything wrong it's just Kathy.
Jenny: Ugh, speaking of Kathy…
Kristin: Ughhhhhh, so Buffy gets to the door and of course we hear…
Jenny and Kristin: [Humming to the tune of Cher's "Believe"]
Kristin: [laughs] And she thinks that the worst thing she's
Jenny: She braces herself.
Kristin: Right, cause she thinks the worst thing she's gonna walk into is the fucking same thing that she always walks into which is fucking Kathy listening to Cher.
Jenny: Ironing her jeans, eating her labeled hard boiled eggs.
Kristin: But no, Parker has come over with zip lock bags for Buffy
Jenny: But he's laying across Kathy's bed.
Kristin: He is! He's laying across Kathy's bed and he's talking about- so Jenny noticed this line that I wrote down. [laughs] When the door opens we just hear Parker say "A lot of popular artists don't get their due, Madonna and Whitney".
Jenny: Yeah, no, if there's two artists that not enough people have said enough things about… definitely Whitney Houston and Madonna.
Kristin: It's Madonna and Whitney Houston.
Jenny: Does anybody know? Who has heard of these obscure singer-songwriters?
Kristin: Right, Parker's really trying to get an in with Kathy here.
Jenny: Which like- [sighs].
Kristin: Why? Why? Whyyyyy?
Jenny: Also, oh my gosh! When Kathy's like "we just got to talking and he's such a-" She's talking about Parker being great while staring into his face.
Kristin: Yeah, it's really a lot.
Jenny: It's the worst.
Kristin: When he's like "maybe it's just the sweaty guys" and she's like [playfully] "stoooooop!" My skin fell off from that revealing my inner demon just like that from Kathy.
Jenny: [laughs] Woooooooow.
Kristin: I have some notes in here "GOD KATHY YOU SUCK" in all caps. Also this is where- and I'm glad you noticed this Jenny cause I noticed it too, it's where we hear Kathy say for the first time "It's share time" which has to be a play on Cher right? Like it's time to share but it's also time to Cher.
Jenny: Right, right, right, it's definitely time to Cher.
Kristin: And is this where Buffy gets real mad? Yeah.
Jenny: Yeah, she padlocks her closet, both of them are going back and forth opening and closing the window. Kathy's like "you're spoiled, Cher time, blah" and then Buffy's like "I'll show you share time" and takes Kathy's milk out of the fridge and just starts chugging it while making eye contact with her and it's going down the sides of her face presumably into the carpet where it will become disgusting old dairy, ugh!
Kristin: Milk, warm milk.
Jenny: That will smell bad.
Kristin: Oh, so bad, you can see it going into her shirt and you know there's not a washing machine, she's a college student so she's probably gonna put it in her laundry pile and she's probably not gonna do the laundry right away and it's probably gonna smell really bad.
Jenny: Ughhhhhh!
Kristin: So you really didn't hurt anyone but yourself Buffy, you really should think these things though.
Jenny: Well, I think she hurt Kathy a little bit.
Kristin: Yeah, it's true.
Jenny: Kathy's like "my milk!"
Kristin: So Oz and Willow have a conversation where Oz is like I can braid Buffy's hair for you while you study, it's totally fine.
Jenny: Sure, right, classic.
Kristin: Then Oz is walking to do this thing, support Willow and helping
Buffy but Jenny he
Jenny: He makes some meaningful eye contact with some rando girl we've never seen before.
Kristin: We've never seen her before and we don't know what that's aboutso we'll just
Jenny: And then immediately after that we see three of those ski mask military guys shuttling through the bushes.
Kristin: Right, there's a lot of little things here that we don't have the answers for you know.
Jenny: True.
Kristin: So, anyway then we get Oz and Buffy time, have we ever gotten Ozand Buffy time before. She was a rat and then needed clothes
Jenny: Yeah man, I don't know.
Kristin: Have they had any quality time.
Jenny: I don't think so.
Kristin: Me either 'cause it's very bizarre to see them talking and you can tell they feel as characters a little odd sharing with each other.
Jenny: But Buffy also needs to vent.
Kristin: Vent and kick the ass of the bench.
Jenny: She kills the bench. She calls Kathy "The Titanic" and "a crawling black cancer".
Kristin: [laughs]
Jenny: Just a heads up.
Kristin: It's like I know that part of the plotline is that Buffy is losing parts of her soul but I have to say that having a roommate who's this passive aggressive would just do this even if you had all of your soul.
Jenny: Totally.
Kristin: Ah, they do it so well too but the grating experience of having to have someone who does horribly annoying things and who is passiveaggressive over and over again really would make anyone
Jenny: Lose it!
Kristin: Break a bench in half.
Jenny: Yeah, totally.
Kristin: You know? Which is why I know that the scoobies are concerned about her but I do feel like they're a little over concerned- until she says "I'm gonna kill her" I feel like Oz's look at the end of this scene is like "oh no, Buffy has lost it" and it's like I think she might just be really annoyed.
Jenny: Well…
Kristin: Well she's a slayer so she's annoyed, she breaks a bench. I don'tknow, that's just me. And then
Jenny: Then!
Kristin: No, I don't even- no. I don't- This is the worst one for me. The toenails.
Jenny: It's worse than floss?
Kristin: Yeah, I mean I think that if it was just on paper flossing in bed or toenails in bed I would maybe have a back and forth but the way the scene with the toenails is done where we follow the swooshing through the air toenail as it ricochets and then falls to the ground. It's just really… bad.
Jenny: It's really bad.
Kristin: It's really bad, don't do this. If you are a new college student please, please know that in the book of etiquette of how you be a roommate you don't sit on your bed and cut your fucking toenails willy nilly.
Jenny: Into the air.
Kristin: And if you're gonna do it, do it when nobody is there and then pick up the toenails!
Jenny: Ugh!
Kristin: Please, please!
Jenny: Don't do that, leave them on the ground and then peel your hard boiled egg with your name on it.
Kristin: Oh god.
Jenny: And then I love how BuffyKiristin: It's like some weird backwards kind of Easter in that room, you know what I mean?
Jenny: Buffy turns out the light and we have to assume that Kathy's just eating her egg in the dark?
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah, I didn't notice that on any of my viewings that Kathy was just egg eating in the dark. Also something that was pointed out to me Jenny, is that Buffy when the noise of the toenail clippings gets too loud, she pulls out her earmuffs?
Jenny: Oh yeah, southern California staple.
Kristin: Right, [laughs] They're just there, it's October. It is October I guess it gets chilly but…
Jenny: It does get chilly here.
Kristin: But yeah, I don't know about having earmuffs at the ready. Headphones, but earmuffs is a funny choice. So then clicking up the scale of- ratcheting up the scale of annoyance now Kathy is talking to Willowwhich is the ultimate
Jenny: Oh wait, but there was another demon dream.
Kristin: Oh, I'm sorry, please get into it Jenny.
Jenny: I mean it's just like there's added blood letters on Buffy's stomach or whatever, there's just a little more and then Buffy wakes up and sees Kathy having a nightmare and then she wakes up. Interesting!
Kristin: But so Kathy was just pretending and then hopped into bed and that's really what's happening here? The dream isn't happening in the- I just am really, really moving for the dream to be happening- or the ritual to be happening in the dream but I guess it's not.
Jenny: Unknown, but they are trans dimensional demons. Are dreams a dimension? Could they be?
Kristin: Yeah, totally!
Jenny: Then maybe that's what's going on and that's why she's her true demon self within the dream.
Kristin: Right, because if she had just hopped back into bed, how'd she gether face back on you know? It's like Mrs. Doubtfire but
Jenny: Well it's bright out, the dream happened in the middle of the night. And when Buffy wakes up it's sunny but also it could just be happening in the dream realm. Whatever, there are a lot of unanswered questions. I havea lot of other unanswered questions
Kristin: Okay, for later?
Jenny: That I have saved for the end, yes.
Kristin: Okay, okay. So the dream happens, then we go to the hallway.
Jenny: Right, Buffy catches Willow talking to Kathy.
Kristin: Willow getting caught in anything uncomfortable is always enjoyable. She does this little head shake, like she's trying to shake herself out of the moment. If she shakes her head enough everyone will go away. But when you're dealing with a person that you don't like and who's getting under your skin when you see your best friend talking to them it is a veryunnerving thing 'cause you are suddenly like am IJenny: What the fuck.
Kristin: Right, is she gonna take her away from me too? It's very threatening so that's what happens here. Also what the fuck outfit is Buffy wearing? She is ready to go to Jurassic Park.
Jenny: What is she wearing?
Kristin: She's wearing a tan button up shirt but it's tied
Jenny: Oh right, over a skirt?
Kristin: And a long skirt, it's safari Buffy, is what we're dealing with here. And so she's kind of at the edge here, she pulls out the toenails from her bag.
Jenny: Before she was like Kathy's evil, I'm an evil fighter, I have to kill her. Then she's like look at this ziplock full of toenails.
Kristin: Thanks so much Parker for the ziplock bag. [laughs]
Jenny: Oh my god! Great point. Also I love how she's like "[laughs] I picked them up off the floor after she-"
Kristin: "And I measured them!"
Jenny: "went to the bathroom, she thought I was asleep!" And yeah measured them.
Kristin: The scenes we wanna see are Buffy in the dark- first of all we wanna see Kathy in the dark eating her egg. We wanna see Buffy in the dark picking up the toenails. And we wanna see Buffy measuring the toenails. Idon't really wanna see that actually but
Jenny: [laughs] I love that Willow's like "Better show those to Giles" and Buffy's like "Of course!".
Kristin: Yeah, what do you think I am, crazy? So Buffy's off to Giles' house and Willow calls him to give him a heads up and then we get this move by Giles, Xander and Oz who decided that the way forward is to net Buffy.
Jenny: [sighs] So great.
Kristin: Now, it supposedly works but I don't buy it, I think the only person in this series that you can net is our dear, dear friend… detective Angel.
Jenny: We've actually seen Buffy get netted before.
Kristin: We have?
Jenny: By that werewolf hunter.
Kristin: Oh yeah, I was thinking about when we saw Angel get netted. Very, very effective to keep him down, you know.
Jenny: Oh yes, Jesus.
NOTES: [Detective Angel jingle plays]
Jenny: Ah yes.
Kristin: Ah, yes our good old friend.
Jenny: Miss him.
Kristin: I do too.
Jenny: wonder what he's up to?
Kristin: I wonder what he's up to too. Anyhow, great line by Buffy, a linethat tickles me, when they're like "something's amiss" and she's like
Jenny: A miss Kathy Newman!
Kristin: Something is amiss here, a miss Kathy Newman. It's good.
Jenny: Also Kathy's last name is Newman, for some reason that's perfectly terrible. No offense if your last name is Newman, it's strictly contextual. Newman is a fine last name although-
Kristin: Wow Jenny.
Jenny: A traditionally terrible last name in mid to late 90s pop culture. Newman.
Kristin: Oh Newman? Interesting. That's a deep cut, I mean Newman isn't a deep cut but that would be a very interesting line, if they were like who else is annoying… Newman!
Jenny: Yeah, maybe that's too far, maybe it just felt right. Okay, sorry.
Kristin: The only thing I ever think about when I think of Newman, well Ithink of two things, I think of him in Jurassic Park
Jenny: Hell yeah.
Kristin: Playing Newman in Jurassic Park and also the scene in Seinfeld where- I don't even remember why but Newman is really hungry, like he hasn't eaten in a long time and Kramer has taken to sitting in a hot tub for a really long time. And so Newman and Kramer are in the hot tub and Newman sees Kramer and he sees him as a turkey, do you remember that episode?
Jenny: Oh, no I don't remember that. My strongest Newman memory is Jerry dating a woman who is by all accounts perfect and then he finds out that she used to date Newman and Newman broke up with her and that is the thing that breaks Jerry.
Kristin: Ah, Jerry really ooph…
Jenny: What a mess.
Kristin: Yeah, he really needs get his shit together. Anyway back to our series. [laughs] So Willow goes into Kathy's room and is like Kathy and another thing you should stay away from Buffy and sort of is getting a clue here that Kathy's not really all there.
Jenny: Right, right, right.
Kristin: Cause Kathy's talking some shit on Buffy in a way that's really creepy.
Jenny: Yeah, Willow's getting the picture and while she's there Giles calls and is like da-da-da-da-da this is what's up with Buffy and Willow's like Oh! I just remembered I left the… frigerator running I gotta go catch it or whatever.
Kristin: [laughs] Meanwhile Buffy does a great move, this is like three stooges right here.
Jenny: Oh wow, yeah this is so good.
Kristin: They're like um I think I might not have tied the ropes- these are not ropes to tie wrists with, the ropes are like four inches thick. I've gone to A-Camp enough times to know that you don't use ropes this thick to tie wrists together, you just don't Jenny.
Jenny: Well, that's a shibari rope bondage thing that goes on at A-Camp, Buffy has superhuman strength, they need really thick ropes.
Kristin: You don't think that shibari rope bondage could have kept her wrists together?
Jenny: No, she's too strong.
Kristin: She's too strong, I think it's the size of the ropes that are at fault here but I guess I don't know.
Jenny: I think Xander just tied the ropes bad.
Kristin: Well… [laughs] anyone wants to believe that.
Jenny: Also when they're like oh we gotta go check this out, it doesn't make any sense that they would both approach her from the front right next to each other.
Kristin: Well, they're trying to avoid her legs so they're coming around the side.
Jenny: Yeah, I just feel like they could have planned better.
Kristin: But I'm glad they didn't cause it's a great moment when she just bashes their heads together and is like bye!
Jenny: Sorry guys, also amazing that she was able to bounce together the heads of Xander and Oz who have such disparate heights. She made it happen.
Kristin: [laughs] It's true, I can't wait to talk about their disparate heights in just a moment, just a few scenes from now. Okay so she goes back to Kathy's room and this scene rules.
Jenny: Yeah, this is really great.
Kristin: It's really an incredible scene, it starts off with "Kathy" "Buffy"
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: Saying each others names. And if you're watching this episode for the first time you don't expect this to happen. You're expecting Buffy has lost her shit, she's gonna go in the room, poor annoying but helpless Kathy, and then no sorry, but fucking Kathy just wails Buffy right across the face and you're like whaaaaaaaaaat?
Jenny: After Buffy just kicks the edge of the carpet over. And they're both like "oops" "oops"
Kristin: Yeah, so this scene, this fight scene sort of goes on and staggers with a couple of other little moments. This is where I actually made the note about the score because the scoring in the fight scene is really solid. Kathypunches Buffy, Kathy's face
Jenny: Yeah, Buffy rips Kathy's human face off right away and is like "I knew it!"
Kristin: And this goo- any opportunity I get to talk about Nightmare on Elm Street I'm gonna seize it. This goo reminds me of Nightmare on Elm Street 4 where there's a character who turns into a cockroach, do you remember this scene Jenny?
Jenny: Ugh No.
Kristin: You don't?
Jenny: I'm burying it deep in my subconscious.
Kristin: Oh, it's such a good scene. She turns into a cockroach and so she's lifting weights and her elbows break at the elbow, they snap and then herarms flop off and there's cockroach arms that gooily come through her
Jenny: Eww.
Kristin: And then eventually her face peels off revealing a cockroach face and it just reminds me, it's whatever this goo is, they use it across the board, same goo.
Jenny: Also the cloak demons just kind of have a Freddy skin thing going on.
Kristin: Oh that's true. So then we get this beautiful little aside where we go back to the demons and I call this the Katy Perry entrance [laughs] The demon was down there and there was a bunch of tech people like are you ready? Are you ready?
Jenny: And then like check the wireless mic.
Kristin: Yeah, and then through the stage our demon enters through his demon elevator. Now here's a question for you about Kathy, I don't know if you noticed this Jenny but Kathy's face peels off right? But also suddenly when her face peels off she has demon teeth and I wanna know how that happened.
Jenny: Oooooh.
Kristin: Because she has regular person teeth in the real world.
Jenny: Maybe they're just caps attached to the latex.
Kristin: They just popped off with her face?
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah. I don't know.
Kristin: And also is it why Kathy is flossing all the time, is she trying to maintain her non-demon cap teeth.
Jenny: Oooh, unknown. Un… known.
Kristin: That's probably enough time to talk about Kathy's teeth.
Jenny: Yeah, then she explains the whole deal, she ran away from her dimension to go to college, of course! And matriculated at UCSD and she's been sucking Buffy's soul in order to throw the guys who are chasing her off her scent.
Kristin: Yes, cause they're just gonna take the person without the soul.
Jenny: So she's like they're gonna take you!
Kristin: Good thing Angel isn't there!
Jenny: Yeah, good thing. So they're gonna take you and Buffy's like great, at least I won't have to watch you floss anymore! Ladies.
Kristin: [laughs] Which like- solid call.
Jenny: Well, yeah.
Kristin: Between a lifetime of watching Kathy floss or a hell dimension, I'm not sure.
Jenny: We don't even know it's a hell dimension it's just a different dimension.
Kristin: That's true, it could be- yeah. [sings] Another dimension, another dimension. Why didn't they put that song in this-
Jenny: What song is that?
Kristin: What!
Jenny: What song is that?
Kristin: It's The Beastie Boys [sings] intergalactic, planetary.
Jenny: Ohhhh, right, right, right.
Kristin: Thank you, Jenny just wanted me to do the robot over here.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: Is this all before- cause I don't have the order in my head but I wanna make sure we don't miss the part where- first of all she gets thrown through the closet door. Okay, and then one of my favorite parts of the fight scene is when Kathy's on top of Buffy and she's just slapping her across the face saying one word.
Jenny: With the phone!
Kristin: Oh with the phone? I didn't even notice.
Jenny: "All you had to do was log your calls!"
Kristin: "write… down… your… calls!" [laughs] I think it's cathartic for anyone who's been in this scenario with a really annoying roommate. It'sjust very cathartic to see them
Jenny: To see them wail on each other.
Kristin: Yeah, to just see them get it the fuck out. Take it from passive agressive to agressive agressive.
Jenny: Totally, also Buffy trying to choke Kathy with the sweater that she borrowed.
Kristin: Really great grab, in the one second that she was in the closet she just grabs the sweater.
Jenny: Meanwhile back at Giles' ahhh!
Kristin: Yes, I have some things here, please Jenny go.
Jenny: Cool, well I was just gonna mention Giles is like "Oh, I'm too late Buffy has busted out of her ropes" and Xander's like "why can't Giles have shackles like any self respecting bachelor?" and the answer is because Joyce gave them to Buffy in Band Candy to handcuff Ethan Rayne, that's why.
Kristin: [laughs] It is true, it is true. We didn't even talk about the moment, speaking of Band Candy, when earlier Buffy called Giles out and was like "you know I've already gone through one of your midlife crises" and Giles was like "That's enough young lady".
Jenny: I kind of couldn't tell whether she was like I was still going ick from the last time you tried to recapture your youth and she just ran into him and Olivia at his place in the last episode.
Kristin: Oh she meant- I think she meant Joyce.
Jenny: She meant Band Candy? Okay carry on.
Kristin: I think so, but I guess- solid point.
Jenny: Anything could be true.
Kristin: Giles having sex with anyone, Giles is really getting around these days.
Jenny: Ahhh don't slut shame Giles.
Kristin: I'm not! Did I say it in a shameful way, I said it very proud of Giles.
Jenny: Okay, okay.
Kristin: And also I'm here man, if you need anything you know?
Jenny: Wow!
Kristin: Sorry, bring that chainsaw, bye!
Jenny: [quietly] Bring that chainsaw…
Kristin: Okay so Giles- the thing that I love in this scene is Giles and Xander, you pointed out this shackles moment but I love- there's a moment when Giles is like "where's Buffy?" And Xander just puts his head down and holds up the empty ropes which I thought was really fun. And then there's a moment, and if you missed it I think go back and watch it cause it's real fun, where Giles physically picks up Xander out of the desk chair to get him out of the way. I feel like it underlines the intimacy of where we're at in their relationship that Giles is like I'm gonna pick your body up and remove you, you're in my way. So then Kathy's trying to suck Buffy's soul.
Jenny: Oh my gosh wait!
Kristin: Yes?
Jenny: [laughs] At some point in the scuffle Kathy's carefully measured pencils scatter across the floor and Buffy's like "great!" and just starts stamping on them. So great!
Kristin: Oh it's so good, and I love Buffy keeping her mouth closed, she's like mmm mmm! Just trying desperately to hold her soul inside of her own body. It's funny that that's the only way you can suck a soul out of somebody is through their mouth.
Jenny: Well, maybe it's just this ritual
Kristin: But in Hocus Pocus it's the same, it's through their mouth. What'sthat all about? Acathla opened his mouth real wide- no wait that's not
Jenny: That was just a hell dimension, I'm trying to remember what it looks like when Angel- oh wait when you lose your soul- okay, whatever. I think it's notable this fight goes on for a long time. Kathy, we are led to believe is one of the more worthy opponents Buffy has faced.
Kristin: Do you think that or do you think that Buffy is just so annoyed that she's really having fun wailing on her, that she lets it go on for- well I guess not cause she wants to keep her soul.
Jenny: Yeah, I think Kathy is as strong as we all feared.
Kristin: That's true, I mean she's been listening to those divas for a long time
Jenny: Absorbing their power.
Kristin: Probably has some inner strength, yeah, yeah. So then dad demonarrives
Jenny: Daddy demon?
Kristin: Daddy demon arrives and is like
Jenny: Rolls up, dads out.
Kristin: Yep, and this is great, where Kathy is like "you treat me like I'm 900 and I'm 3,000 dad!" And then we get to my other favorite Xander and Oz moment where they walk in together, Xander behind Oz, and they see the demon and then they shrink back into the corner where Xander fully spoons Oz. They fit together like a couple of little nesting dolls and I'm here for it is all I'm saying.
Jenny: Yeah, very pro that. Then of course dad opens an interdimensional portal in the floor.
Kristin: This would have been a perfect cue for [sings] intergalactic, plan
Jenny: O…kay!
Kristin: I'm just saying they missed an opportunity, maybe that came out a year later, maybe that came out in 2000 or something.
Jenny: So… then everything is back to normal
Kristin: Sort of, is it?
Jenny: Yeah Buffy has an opening and Willow really needs to get out of her current living situation.
Kristin: Why didn't they live together to begin with?
Jenny: Probably you can't pick your roommate when you're an incoming freshman.
Kristin: Oh, yeah you were so ready with that rule, Jenny just pulled out her student handbook and was like it says right here on page five Kristin you can't pick your roommate as a freshman.
Jenny: [laughs] I love rules!
Kristin: I wanna give a shout out to Buffy's bandana.
Jenny: You mean her kerchief?
Kristin: Well, I called it a bandana, I wore them all- did you never wear bandanas in college?
Jenny: Not like that I didn't.
Kristin: She's wearing a lady bandana and I too wore the gay bandana so that's probably the variety you were wearing.
Jenny: The gay bandana, what's that?
Kristin: Well you know like you're there for it, it's a full bandana.
Jenny: Like you're gonna rob a bank?
Kristin: No, it's on your head.
Jenny: Like you're at Burning Man?
Kristin: I don't know, I've never been to Burning Man.
Jenny: So it's rolled up in a sort of sweatband configuration.
Kristin: No, that's how you do wear bandanas like that, you love to- I forgot. Anytime Jenny's like I'm gonna clean the house it's like suddenly a bandana appears from nowhere.
Jenny: How dare you.
Kristin: No, I would wear it like Buffy was wearing it but it would be bigger. Okay here's the deal, there were handkerchiefs that are squares that you fold into a triangle you tie around your head and you use as a bandana. Butthen once people started doing that The Limited was like
Jenny: Oh they made bigger ones?
Kristin: Littler ones!
Jenny: Oh, littler ones?
Kristin: Yeah like Buffy's wearing a littler one so you don't have the excess cloth to deal with. I never went that route, I always stuck true bandana which I think was gayer of me.
Jenny: Yeah, I agree.
Kristin: I don't know, I'm assessing it myself.
Jenny: Definitely gayer.
Kristin: It's also a very big change of environment in the room, we went from Cher and a Celine poster to dingoes, dingoes, dingoes. We're listening to dingoes, we got a dingoes poster- really cool dingoes poster don't you think?
Jenny: Yeah, pretty sick.
Kristin: I wonder if we're permitted to make a Dingoes Ate My Baby poster to sell, probably not.
Jenny: I don't think that would be
Kristin: You know why? Cause Jenny loves rules.
Jenny: Love rules!
Kristin: Jenny won't let us do anything fun.
Jenny: So then they close it out, this is a really nice little button on the episode where you think everything's chill and then Willow's like "are you gonna finish that?" and before Buffy can respond she's taking a bite out of Buffy's sandwich and then it's the really intense zoom in on Buffy who's squinting angrily.
Kristin: Great squint, we get it twice. Do you think it's the same shot? she doesn't squint two different times, it's the same shot of her squinting from before?
Jenny: Is it?
Kristin: I don't know it just seemed identical to me.
Jenny: I think it was made to look identical
Kristin: But wasn't? Do you think they made her squint twice?
Jenny: I think Sarah Michelle Gellar was probably making enough at this point to be asked to squint two separate times.
Kristin: To squint twice, yeah it's good though. It's a good little tag on the end, very fun. Also very horror movie esque where you think it's over but it's not.
Jenny: Okay so I have some pressing questions that I've accumulated over the length of the episode.
Kristin: Okay great, I'm here for it.
Jenny: Okay, are you ready? First of all are we to understand that Kathy is the way she is, listening to the same Cher song over and over again, ironing her jeans, labeling her hard boiled eggs, being psychotic about the call log, just being passive aggressive and terrible because she's a soulless demon or are there some demons of her kind that are chill?
Kristin: Right, like is it a personality type, is it a demon strain?
Jenny: Is it demonic to love Cher to that degree?
Kristin: Demonimational?
Jenny: Non-demonimational.
Kristin: Yeah, I don't know, I mean the way that I would write this story, if we're writing this story is that she got out of her hell dimension and she gravitated toward- I think she likes Celine and Cher and whatever because it's [loud, passionate] you know what I mean?
Jenny: Also what if the real subtext is that
Kristin: [gasps] The divas are the demons!
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: Oh my god!
Jenny: What if they belong to that same group of demons?
Kristin: Woooooooooow.
Jenny: So that's something to think about.
Kristin: I feel the ties between demons and divas. I love divas, that's not to say that I love divas, I fucking love a diva. If you don't know how I feel about Mariah Carey well… [gasps] I feel good about her. But the anal stuff, meaning anal retentive stuff.
Jenny: Oh! I was like wait, what!
Kristin: [laughs] I'm like I don't know why she likes anal so much. But yeah the measuring of the pencils and the labeling of the eggs, I'm not sure. I think that might just be- because here's the thing, these are things that I think happen to many people when they have to live with somebody for the first time. We all hit it different ways and some of us hit it very how do I keep my things and what if this other person is gonna take my things. So I don't know, I think part of it is just she's a freshman you know? And part of it is that she's a demon.
Jenny: Okay so how come Kathy doesn't become less terrible as she gets more pieces of Buffy's soul?
Kristin: Yes! I had a similar thought, I was like Buffy's getting worse why is Kathy not getting better?
Jenny: Right, right?
Kristin: Solid question.
Jenny: Also does Kathy just have the cd single of Believe?
Kristin: [laughs] I think so.
Jenny: Is that what's going on?
Kristin: I don't remember purchasing cd singles, that wasn't a part of my life. My mom bought me the cd single of Hero by Mariah Carey because she believed I was her hero. It was very nice, thank you mom.
Jenny: That is very nice.
Kristin: But other than that cd single my single days were tapes, I had so many cassette singles.
Jenny: I bought cd singles but only if they were the special japanese import that had unavailable b sides.
Kristin: Oh… brother.
Jenny: What!?
Kristin: Of course you did.
Jenny: Because otherwise I would just have the full album that had theyou know what I mean?
Kristin: Oh my god, when I first met Jenny she taught me the ways of an album. You were very upset with me at the beginning because I would listen to it- and you were like um an artist makes an album because they want you to listen to the full thing and I was like oh…
Jenny: Sorry.
Kristin: No I say it facetiously because that's the tone we were in but I actually am very appreciative for the knowledge and I have listened to music very differently but of fucking course you were buying the Japanese edition singles.
Jenny: Uhhh anyway!
Kristin: Once a music nerd always a music nerd, it's your true roots!
Jenny: True, this reminds me of this weird phenomenon in the 90s. I don't know if you ever encountered this- okay, there would be the rack in The Wall or Sam Goody or whatever of the cd and cassette singles right? And there would be oh my god, there would be the single for Love Fool by The Cardigans and then right next to it because of the alphabet there would be the cd single by a band called The Comfortable Sweaters and the song was called I'm a Love Idiot or something.
Kristin: I think you've talked about this on the podcast before-
Jenny: Really? How embarrassing.
Kristin: Well it's a thing you've told me and I feel like you've said it animatedly enough for me to believe that it was on the podcast. I do not remember this at all, I don't.
Jenny: Well you weren't scouring the cd and cassette single wall at your local record store but I sure was and I don't know how long this went on for but it would be like bands that would start with the same letter and be close enough that your mom would go in and be like "what's that song by- I don't know the comfortable sweaters?".
Kristin: Oh my god it is exactly what a mom would think you said, yeah.
Jenny: Right? It's exactly that SNL sketch about moms trying to name celebrity actors. Anyway my last pressing question… Oh my god this is a little deep.
Kristin: I'm ready.
Jenny: Okay, if Kathy had successfully stolen Buffy's soul but Buffy eludedthe demon dudes and didn't get dragged back to their dimension
Kristin: [gasps] Could her and Angel have sex!?
Jenny: Exactly!
Kristin: Holy shit! Woooooow.
Jenny: I think they could, I think it would be empty for him- less fulfilling.
Kristin: It would be empty sex?
Jenny: Well that's why it could h appen because it wouldn't be one true moment of happiness because her would would be gone. So it would be dark but they could fuck darkly.
Kristin: They could just fuck all the time with no souls. Just two soulless bodies banging up against each other, how romantic?
Jenny: Ooh, that sounds like- well, okay.
Kristin: Yeah, good questions all around, I was hoping we'd get an orb of thesulah personally. Whenever we talk about souls I'm always waiting for a good old orb of thesulah to pop up.
Jenny: Well look, not every demon or non-demon does soul stuff the same way.
Kristin: I know, you've been really hard-lined about the fact that this is not a hell dimension, it's just another dimension, these people have their own ways in this dimension, they don't have orbs of thesulah.
Jenny: Well who makes the rules? Why is it okay for Buffy to go around killing everyone?
Kristin: It's true.
Jenny: In vampire culture, vampires aren't doing anything immoral they're just- it's like a wildebeest, wait no, not a wildebeest. It's like a mountain lion just going about it's mountain lion business.
Kristin: Oh, like hunting?
Jenny: Yeah, hunting, feeding [sings] the circle of life.
Kristin: Ooh, that's complicated actually because I was like yeah but they're murdering people but you're like but they're animals and they're just feedingoff other animals that happen to be
Jenny: I mean we're all animals.
Kristin: Right, wow. I don't know Jenny, we're gonna have seven seasons of just wondering how to draw the lines around these complicated issues and I don't think we're ever gonna figure it out.
Jenny: But we'll keep trying.
Kristin: We will keep trying and do you know what it's time for?
Jenny: What's it time for?
Kristin: It's time Jenny to announce the winner of our first sexual tensionawards
Jenny: [gasps] Oh… my… god.
Kristin: And to nominate the next set so why don't you play us in?
NOTES: [Sexual Tension Award jingle]
Kristin: Alright, well 865 of you voted
Jenny: Wow!
Kristin: and the winner of the sexual tension award for season four episode one The Freshman is, drumroll please.
Jenny: [making drumroll noises]
Kristin: Giles and Olivia with 45 percent of the vote! Giles and Olivia took it, second was Monet and Klimt at 23 percent almost tied with Buffy and Sunday at 22 percent. Only 11 percent of you voted for Xander and the ladies night club.
Jenny: Fabulous ladies night club.
Kristin: Yeah, I couldn't fit fabulous in the twitter poll. But congratulations Giles and Olivia, your trophy will be in the mail.
Jenny: One to London and one to Sunnydale.
Kristin: Ooh, hot, hot, hot.
Jenny: Well it's time for this week's nominees.
Kristin: Brought to you exclusively by Jenny Owen Youngs.
Jenny: The nominees are Kathy and Cher, Kathy and Celine Dion, Kathy andthe hard boiled eggs
Kristin: Gross.
Jenny: Kathy and her pencil sharpener.
Kristin: Hot. So yeah I guess we know that Kathy's gonna get one, one way or the other it's really which other inanimate object or diva will get an award. So check us out on twitter @bufferingcast you'll see the twitter poll up the day that the episode goes live and you can vote your hearts out and we will let you know who won this sexual tension award next episode.
Jenny: But until that next episode arrives in your feed my name is Jenny Owen Youngs You can learn more about me and the hot, hot jams that I make when I'm not making this podcast at jennyowenyoungs.com/buffering. And you can always tweet at me @jennyowenyoungs.
Kristin: You can, and my name is Kristin Russo you can find out more about what I do when I'm not talking about Buffy the Vampire Slayer on my website at kristinnoeline.com that's k-r-i-s-t-i-n-n-o-e-l-i-n-e. That's also the spelling of my twitter handle and my instagram handle @kristinnoeline so you can learn more about me there. I do a lot of work with lgbtq communities and their families over with everyone is gay and my kid is gay. I also just recently finished co-directing A-Camp which is a really special place that if you don't know about it you should.
Jenny: Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on twitter, facebook and instagram @bufferingcast and you can always email us at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin: Yes, and if you wanna support us, thank you so much you can do that, and there's a few ways that you can. First of all you could go on over to itunes and rate and review us that helps people find the podcast which is rad. Second of all you could listen to our sister podcast Angel on Top.
Jenny: Yeeees!
Kristin: Angel on Top just started last week and they're going every other week with us so that you never have a week without Buffy or Angel. You get one of us or the other so you could listen to them, they're doing an amazing job already. You could also rate and review their podcast on itunes which would be lovely.
Jenny: Yes please.
Kristin: You can buy merchandise from us as always, smashing the demon lizard patriarchy and all sorts of other fun things. We added new merch a couple of weeks ago.
Jenny: Diner mug! Diner mug!
Kristin: Yes! A smash the demon lizard patriarchy diner mug
Jenny: You can't buy one because I bought all the mugs we ordered.
Kristin: [laughs] We have just keep fighting tote bags and also a new color combo for the summer of just keep fighting that I am personally very excited about. Little teal, little daffodil ink, very nice. And last but certainly not least you can support our work on Patreon just go to bufferingthevampireslayer.com and click on Patreon and you can join us at the dollar, five dollar, or ten dollar level. You get all sorts of fun things and it's a really incredible way to help sustain us and build community. Really incredible community over there in that Patreon facebook group.
Jenny: Truly, also if you happen to be in the New York Area please be advised we will be taping a live episode in Littlefield in Brooklyn on July 8th. We'll be taping our episode for your favorite episode and ours Beer Bad!
Kristin: [laughs] Listen, so I produce the show right and I'm looking at the calendar and I'm like hmm, what are we gonna do for Beer Bad? And I thought what better way to celebrate than to all drink beer together? And if we're so lucky we may just be graced with the presence of one Heather Hogan, beer expert.
Jenny: Beer expert, Buffy expert.
Kristin: And Buffy fan, she will delight us all I think with tales of feminist beer which is one of the only things that could make this episode really shine.
Jenny: Yeah, truly.
Kristin: It's gonna be great.
Jenny: Anything we can do to make this episode better than it would be on its own.
Kristin: Yeah, it's gonna be great, in our hometown we're very excited to be in New York talking about one of our least favorite episodes.
Jenny: And hanging out live with some of you!
Kristin: Yes! So you can find the tickets for that, just go to bufferingthevampireslayer.com/beerbad and it'll take you to the ticketing page.
Jenny: Yeeees! Alright that's it for this episode, holy smokes. Two in on season four and it feels so good.
Kristin: Wow [laughs]
Jenny: Till next time…
Jenny and Kristin: Awwwwoooooooooooo!
Jenny: Kathy!
Kristin: [laughs] [Jenny performing "Living Conditions" from the album "Songs from Season Four" by Buffering the Vampire Slayer] Labels her eggs, flosses in bed Borrowed my sweater without asking What the shit, she got ketchup on it Kathy sucks Kathy sucks Kathy really sucks and I hate her guts Irons her jeans, loves her capris Only listens to the divas On repeat for infinity Kathy sucks Kathy sucks Kathy really sucks and I hate her guts Do you believe in life after Kathy I have to believe in life after Kathy Poured animal blood right down my throat And sucked out sections of my soul that She tried to keep while I was asleep Kathy sucks Kathy sucks What the fuck Kathy really sucks Kathy sucks Kathy sucks Kathy sucks Kathy really sucks and I hate her guts