Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 2.01: When She Was Bad
Previously, on Buffering the Vampire Slayer: [Theme music plays softly in background]
Jenny: Oh my god, last season, Season 1, we talked about a whole bunchof things, we met Buffy and Willow and Xander and Angel
Kristin: [joined by Jenny] And Cordelia! Wow.
Jenny: And Miss Calendar, and Principal Snyder, and The Master, and The Anointed One…
Kristin: RIP, Principal Flutie…
Jenny: RIP, The Master…
Kristin: M-hm.
Jenny: M-hm m-hm m-hm.
Kristin: Herbert the pig, also RIP.
Jenny: Yep, RIP. So we met all those people, and a bunch of people died and Buffy is the Slayer…
Kristin: And we learned Angel is a vampire, but he has a soul…
Jenny: Oh my god, and also that he is very attractive. And, and and and…
Kristin: We learned that Xander can be problematic. [Both laugh] We learned that Jenny Calendar is a techno-pagan…
Jenny: Hyenas can possess you…
Kristin: Witches are trapped inside statues at Sunnydale High School…
Jenny: And sometimes, a gigantic she-mantis just wants to try and mate with some virgin teen human boys.
Kristin: Exactly.
Jenny: We learned that if you ignore people for long enough, they actually disappear…
Kristin: Oh, and we learned that Owen just wanted to date Buffy because she was dangerous.
Jenny: Yeecch. Owen. Alright, well I think that [Kristin laughs] is the sumtotal of everything that we learned last season. Let's move right on
Kristin: [melodically] to season 2!
Jenny: Yeah!
NOTES: [INTRO MUSIC]
Kristin: Hello!
Jenny: [simultaneously] Hello, and welcome to the very first episode of Season 2 of Buffering the Vampire Slayer. This is a podcast where we're watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer one at a time. I'm Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: And I'm Kristin Russo, and this week we're discussing Season 2, Episode 1, "When She Was Bad".
Jenny: Stay tuned at the end of this podcast this week and every week for an original song, written by us, recapping the Buffy episode we're discussing.
Kristin: Speaking of songs, Jenny, now that they can all listen to all of the songs that we wrote from Season 1, you should probably tell them where you can find them! [Singed]
Jenny: Whaaaat a great question! You can find them on iTunes, you can find them on Spotify, you can find them on Amazon digital, you can find them on Google Play, they're all over the place. Wherever you get digital music, there's a pretty good chance you can find "Buffering the Vampire
Slayer: Songs from Season 1". We also have just a few CDs left, I think, in our online store.
Kristin: Yeah, I think we just have a handful.
Jenny: If you're looking for the physical… deal.
Kristin: Yeah. Also, we want to let you know that if you are in the Los Angeles area, we are doing a live taping of Buffering the Vampire Slayer on February 2nd at NerdMelt Showroom.
Jenny: Whaaat?
Kristin: I know, it's so exciting, it's our first live taping. 'Cause we did our show in New York, which by the way you can listen to that whole thing over at patreon.com/bufferingcast, but we did that show in New York which was more of a music show. We played through the songs, and we did a few interviews. It was super fun, but this is like, straight up, us sitting down and doing our episode live in front of an audience, so I'm nervous and excited!
Jenny: So nervous, so excited.
Kristin: Yeah, it's gonna be great, we're gonna have
Jenny: We're gonna have to be way better at this, then we currently are.
Kristin: No, we're gonna be fine, it's gonna be great.
Jenny: Okay, okay.
Kristin: They'll just see us mess up, and then we can edit the file.
Jenny: Hoooraaaaay!
Kristin: [laughs] So if you wanna see us mess up, you just go to NerdMeltLA.com and you can find out more about tickets and all of that good stuff. February 2nd, I believe it starts at 7 PM. And now, let us get back to talking about the episode.
Jenny: "When She Was Bad" was written and directed by Joss Whedon and originally aired September 15th, 1997. This is the one where Buffy is soooo mean.
Kristin: [interrupting] Hey!
Jenny: Oh, do you say "This is the one where?"
Kristin: Yeah! The heck?
Jenny: I'm sorry.
Kristin: This is the one where Buffy returns home from summer vacation sporting an attitude, and also suffering from a recurring nightmare involving The Master. Meanwhile, the Anointed One and his followers plot their revenge. [Jenny laughs] I read the summaries off of IMDb.com, you're welcome.
Jenny: Would you like to hear the summary I wrote when I forgot that I don't say the "This is the one where"?
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: This is the one where Buffy is so mean because she's working through her issues around the fact that she died last season. [Kristin laughs] Also, pretty good.
Kristin: That's pretty good, yeah. I actually have a feeling that I will always prefer your written version over IMDb's. No offense, IMDb.
Jenny: IMDb, you're doing great work. Thank you. So. Here we are, top of season 2, oh my gosh.
Kristin: Buffy has new hair.
Jenny: Right. Xander and Willow are hanging out, just waiting for her to get back from LA with her new hair.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Hanging around, talking to each other, playing Rock, Paper, Scissors…
Kristin: Oh my god, one of my first notes is 'Of course Xander is always Scissors', and then I wrote 'the patriarchy!' [Both laugh] I don't know why, but it really just bothered me, you know, and I was like 'typical.'
Jenny: Yeah. I feel that.
Kristin: You know? I don't have any further explanation, but discuss amongst yourselves. [laughs]
Jenny: So, [laughs] they're playing a game where they each say a moviequote
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: And the other has to tell them what the movie, what movie that quote is from.
Kristin: A great game!
Jenny: I was thinking maybe we could play that, just one round really quick.
Kristin: Oh my gosh. Oh gosh.
Jenny: Are you ready?
Kristin: You didn't prepare me, though. I don't have a quote.
Jenny: I know! Well, you can think of one.
Kristin: Oh god.Okay.
Jenny: Think of one while I ask you yours, which is, okay, the quote is: "I know my way around the kitchen." [long pause] In a Scottish accent.
Kristin: [thinks] I have no idea.
Jenny: Okay, how about…
Kristin: I'm going to be horrible at this game, I promise you.
Jenny: How 'bout, "Spared no expense." Same movie. [pause] How 'boutthese are things I say all the time, by the way, just for you guys at home. How 'bout "Clever girl."
Kristin: Oh, Jurassic Park.
Jenny: Yeeeeeeeessss! [Kristin laughs]
Kristin: Sorry, I wouldn't know the intricate, uh… [Jenny laughs] 'In a Scottish accent'.
Jenny: Yeah, is John Hammond Scottish? I'm not actually sure. But anyway.
Kristin: I should've just guessed Jurassic Park before you said your quote.
Jenny: Right? That would have been amazing!
Kristin: Which would have been my guess, that you, before you, if you had given me no quote.
Jenny: Hmmm.
Kristin: Um, Okay okay, wait. Let me think of one.
Jenny: Okay, okay.
Kristin: Okay, I have a quote!
Jenny: Okay, hit me.
Kristin: "Do you like scary movies?" [Jenny laughs]
Jenny: You know what's funny is that Scream was my first guess before you gave me a quote.
Kristin: Uhhh, well at least we know each other well. Also, Scream, I chose Scream because it relates to this scene…
Jenny: Yeeeesss!
Kristin: Because we just learned that- so Xander, we all notice, that Buffy's hair is different and Xander makes a comment about her new hair, and I just read that the reason that Buffy's hair is different is because in between filming Seasons 1 and 2, she filmed Scream 2, where she got a hair change.
Jenny: Yeah. [sings] Hair change!
Kristin: So, we get to thank Wes Craven for Buffy's new hairstyle, which as you know from listening to me in Season 1 is absolutely my favorite way that could've gone. [both laugh] You know?
Jenny: Absolutely. So, right before she shows up, and we're seeing… [hesitating] mmmm…
Kristin: You guys. That was the most terrifying moment of my life. [Jenny breathing heavily] So Jenny was like- I was like "Scream, Wes Craven, horror movies and Buffy", and then Jenny started to talk and a man ran down our walkway… It's okay, he was just from Amazon. I don't know if you can hear the truck pulling away. But I thought that we were gonna…
Jenny: You thought he wanted to know if we like scary movies?
Kristin: Yes! [both laugh nervously]
Jenny: Woo! We made it through. Un. Scathed.
Kristin: Anyhow. Continue.
Jenny: Oh, right before Buffy shows up, we're seeing Willow and Xander get closer and closer and closer and they almost kiss but then there's a vampire who must have seen their ad on, you know, couples for threesome with vamp on Craigslist dash Sunnydale. He just pops up in between them in an I'm sorry - unrealistically close fashion.
Kristin: Well, they're both entranced.
Jenny: Fair. Ok, they are entranced.
Kristin: Which I don't remember at all. This happened, and I was like, now I know I've seen these episodes and I have no recollection of that. And I decided the reason I didn't remember is because nobody meant anything to me at this point when I was watching Season Two.
Jenny: Right. But also, you have no memory…
Kristin: That also, is true.
Jenny: Is a thing to consider. So Xander very heroically pushes Willow back and gets in a punch before Buffy shows up and delivers a chest kick that sends this vampire up and out, into the out-sticking branch of a tree.
Kristin: To which I exclaimed, "the old twig-in-the-back trick!" [Jenny laughs] And then Jenny laughed a lot.
Jenny: Just like that! I'm consistent.
Kristin: Also, a solid fucking backhand, Xander.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: He like swings his whole entire arm straight, like that's the way that punch happens.
Jenny: I, well he's just working with what he's got.
Kristin: Yeah, it was great!
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: I'm giving him credit and then…
Jenny: Speaking of credits. Look at these Mmmmphh! Look at these credit additions David Boreanaz is there, there are like three new video clips that I think we see all of in this episode.
Kristin: Yeah, I tried to write them down but I didn't get them all but the three that I noticed, one is Xander looking shocked. I don't believe that's in season one. Then one is Buffy coming up from grass?
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: It's like eye level grass and she's coming out and then the third one of course is the one with four bodies swinging through the frame
Jenny: Oh there's that. And then her also dusting a vampire from behind which happens at the end of this episode.
Kristin: Okay, okay. Oh wow so two moments from this episode are in the credits.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: I guess they don't have that much film when they decide the credits.
Jenny: Yeah, versus season one where they had all the episodes filmed before they went to air. Also another important addition to the credits is there's now a sound effect that occurs when Buffy is firing the crossbow towards the end of the credits.
Kristin: What, what does it sound like? I didn't.
Jenny: It's like [imitates the sound]
Kristin: [laughs] I didn't notice.
Jenny: Yeah, well go back and check it out.
Kristin: Okay.
Jenny: It's there. Post credits they're catching up, they're like "yo we buried the master right over there" we wore some robes…
Kristin: Yeah, yeah wait. I have so many questions. I have like a series of questions.
Jenny: Oh, okay okay.
Kristin: Apparently all I did for the first five minutes was write questions.
Jenny: Sure.
Kristin: I have: how did Buffy miss the master's burial? also why is she so mad when they ask her about seeing Giles over the summer? also how does she get the summer off? [both laugh] Those were all of my immediate questions.
Jenny: Right, right, right, okay wait so start at the top there.
Kristin: Well how did she miss the burial, it was only prom it wasn't the end of the-- it wasn't grad-- it wasn't like…
Jenny: Well some people have prom at the very end of the year.
Kristin: Well, yeah like in May or June.
Jenny: Well I'm pretty sure that episode aired in May so…
Kristin: But you don't end school-- it's not like prom happens and then you never go back to school again.
Jenny: But I think some schools are set up that way.
Kristin: Lies.
Jenny: Uhhhhhhhh
Kristin: Lies.
Jenny: I don't think it's a lie, I think some schools are set up that way.
Kristin: [singing] Tell me lies, tell me sweet little lies.
Jenny: Okay, and then what was your second question?
Kristin: [singing] About school getting out before prom even happens.
Jenny: What? Wha-- Oh boy, what was your second question?
Kristin: My second-- you didn't…
Jenny: Oh why she's so mad
Kristin: answer my first question but.
Jenny: Oh, well okay so I'm telling you [laughs] my answer to your question is some schools position prom all the way at the end so it happens like essentially after graduation or whatever.
Kristin: You think that Buffy was like-- Okay, but even-Jenny: But even then Buffy… okay Buffy probably had a plan to go visit her dad, you know it's not like she can be like "dad I can't come see you for the summer because I have to slay."
Kristin: But!
Jenny: Also she's assuming that the majority of the hellmouth activity is over for the time being because she just killed the master.
Kristin: But!!
Jenny: Also she just died so she probably, even if she wasn't scheduled to leave for her dad's right away, she probably was like "and I'm just gonna move that trip up a little bit and get the hell out of here"
Kristin: Alright, okay fine.
Jenny: Okay, and then…
Kristin: My second question was why is she so mad when they ask her if she's seen Giles over the summer?
Jenny: Because Giles is the symbol of the death experience she just had.
Kristin: Okay, okay, okay. I just…
Jenny: Right?
Kristin: Yeah, I mean right. There's a lot going on and we're gonna talk about it 'cause we have a podcast about the show. [both laugh] There's a lot going on for Buffy in this episode 'cause she's dealing with the trauma that was experienced at the end of last season for sure but it just seemed so specific to me, I mean I guess it becomes more clear once we're seeing the nightmares that she's having and how tied into this Giles is but okay so you answered-- great job, two out of two Jenny.
Jenny: Right, right, right. Thank you.
Kristin: And then my third question was also how does she get the summer off?
Jenny: Well I think it's a kind of deal-- I feel like that was part of my answer for number one, right? Like plans to go visit your dad who's not married to your mom anymore and lives in a different city, that's probably gonna happen whether or not you're the slayer 'cause it's not like your mom knows you're the slayer or your dad knows you're the slayer.
Kristin: Right, right so the hellmouth just has to sit unattended because they can't be public about the fact that Buffy is the slayer.
Jenny: Yeah, but they also have reason to believe that they just thwarted the major big bad force in town and they haven't seen a vampire all summer so…
Kristin: Right, right, right. It's just convenient. Like, does every season end at the summer?
Jenny: I don't remember off the top of my head.
Kristin: We'll have to look it up.
Jenny: Here's something else, what is the something else? I was just gonna say the library's looking great, it's almost as if the hellmouth had never opened and a giant squiggly demon had never you know scrambled all it's tentacles out of the hole.
Kristin: Yeah, how do you think principal Snyder denied reality for that clean-up?
Jenny: I think he's skilled at denying reality.
Kristin: Yeah, he's like: "Interesting crack in the floor and slime everywhere [and a skeleton?]"
Jenny: "Kids these days"
Kristin: Yeah, so my next notes in this episode are me screaming as every character enters.
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: So I'm like Cordy! Snyder! Jenny Calendar! Like all in a row.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: But we can start with Cordelia.
Jenny: Sure, who's wondering if it's possible to have too much character.
Kristin: Right?
Jenny: Great question Cordelia.
Kristin: Great question, also I think Cord-- I think Charisma Carpenter has a really bad cold in this episode.
Jenny: Dude, yes her voice is like so raspy, or she was just doing some extracurricular cheerleading between seasons or something and blew her voice out. One or the other.
Kristin: Or that. [laughs] So yeah, Cordelia enters in true Cordelia fashion.
Jenny: [sings] Oh yeeaaah
Kristin: With her Cordettes, talking to her-Jenny: [laughs] Two new Cordettes I don't think we've seen before.
Kristin: Yeah, they're brand new Cordettes. I mean one can never have too many Cordettes.
Jenny: Sure, sure, you need a fleet. It takes a village.
Kristin: And then we get this wonderful Snyder… Giles.
Jenny: Yeaaahhhh.
Kristin: I love when Snyder and Giles interact.
Jenny: It's great.
Kristin: It's so fantastic, and I feel like not only is it fantastic because of their characters and they're just polar opposite characters doing the same job essentially.
Jenny: Right, right, right.
Kristin: Within the school anyhow. But also because they're both such incredible actors. I just feel like there's a lot of joy that you can see that they both have that they get to act with each other, you know?
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: So yeah, and this is a great scene.
Jenny: Right, right, right. Where he's talking about how basically the hormones of teenager and how boys are reduced to gibbering idiots when there's a pretty girl around and of course Giles doesn't really hear him because he's too busy becoming a gibbering idiot because Ms. Calendar just got there.
Kristin: Yeeaah.
Jenny: Then they're connecting, they're heading to the teacher's lounge. She's like I went to Burning Man.
Kristin: [laughs]
Jenny: Of course she did.
Kristin: I went to Burning Man, and then she does, she has the same intonation so she's like-- you know Giles is like "I read a book that's probably super boring to you" and Jenny Calendar is like "depends on the book" which is exactly how she said "that's not where it dangles"
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: She has like one intonation for flirting and that is it.
Jenny: And it's very effective. Why-- If it ain't broke, why add a second one that is less broke?
Kristin: It is effective on Giles and Jenny. Like my wife, Jenny.
Jenny: [laughs] Oh, me!
Kristin: Yes, you. It works on both Giles and Jenny Owen Youngs. Jenny Calendar's flirting.
Jenny: Yeah, Jenny Calendar says something and I look over sideways at Kristin like "did you just hear that?"
Kristin: Yeah, and then-- but sometimes you stand up or rise up in your seat. You get very excited. You're like "look what just happened!"
Jenny: To be fair I do that for a lot of things.
Kristin: Yes, that's true.
Jenny: Just for those of you at home who aren't familiar with what watching television next to me is like [Kristin laughs] So, then Xander, Willow and Buffy pull up to Giles and Ms. Calendar and Sarah Michelle Gellar with some fantastic eyeball acting.
Kristin: Ooooooh.
Jenny: Where she-- you know Xander and Willow both say something I believe to Giles and Jenny Calendar
Kristin: Well Xander says-Jenny: Xander says "G-Man" which is such a bummer.
Kristin: "G-man" When we watched the episode through for the first time it was really perfect because Xander was like "G-man" and Jenny was like "No!" and Giles was like "Never call me that again" [both laugh] and you were so excited that Giles laid down Jenny's law in that moment.
Jenny: Yes, Jenny's law. Hmm. So Xander and Willow both interact with them and then Buffy's kind of hanging back and she like looks at Giles and then looks away really fast. And it's just like "I see you" you know?
Kristin: Yes, say more.
Jenny: Somebody that you're scared to talk to, somebody that you don't wanna talk to.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Kristin, you've seen me make an about face and try to just escape physical situations.
Kristin: I have, so many times. Starting with the very beginning of our relationship as a matter of fact.
Jenny: Oh yeah.
Kristin: I'll tell you this fun story. Right when Jenny and I were first starting to get to know each other and like flirting and Jenny was like not interested and I was flirting and Jenny was like not interested. I went to see one of Jenny's shows and I crested the top of the staircase at Irving Plaza, as a matter of fact, and lo and behold Jenny was out there at the merch table, she had not gone backstage yet and I was like oh! And I went to say hey, and she made direct eye contact with me, spun on her heel and walked in the opposite direction.
Jenny: I like to avoid uncomfortable situations whenever possible.
Kristin: So yeah, so you really identified with this Buffy moment?
Jenny: I really did.
Kristin: So we immediately go from this moment in the hallway to Buffy being trained.
Jenny: Yeah with some like, rock music, and a lot of kicks and battering of Giles with a bow.
Kristin: And a huge, huge moment for the stunt double
Jenny: Yeah yeah - that stunt double is living seriously…
Kristin: But then Sarah Michelle Gellar has definitely been training on punches I think, because there are a couple of scenes where it is on her face and she's punching and it's very apparent that she's been doing some work to know how to punch even better than she could punch in Season One.
Jenny: Yep yep yep, and working herself up into a froth, and Giles is looking more and more concerned.
Kristin: Right, she snaps the thing in half-Jenny: The punch dummy, right in half.
Kristin: And we hear her say in this scene a line that she will repeat over and over and over again during this episode - this scene she says, "Whatever they've got coming next, I'm ready." And this is just what she continues to say "I'm fine", "I'm ready"
Jenny: "I can take care of myself"
Kristin: Yes, "I can take cake of myself". Her whole M.O. is like "I don't need anyone, I can fight this myself, I'm an independent human being, everybody fuck off." I kind of hated this episode because of that. It was a real struggle for me to get through it.
Jenny: It's really rough to watch this episode, because the character you'resupposed to be pulling for the hardest is-Kristin: So mean!
Jenny: --not endearing themselves to us at all.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: So then we get to Buffy's nightmare.
Kristin: Ooh! And nobody knows it's a nightmare at first. It's so rough.
Jenny: Right, yeah it's very Craven-y I feel like, right? It's like…
Kristin: Yeah, It is…
Jenny: So sunny?
Kristin: Well it is-- right, it's a little sunnier but not enough for me to have realized that this was a nightmare though.
Jenny: Right, right, right.
Kristin: But it does have that like-- well 'cause you know it's the scene that is exactly what you would expect to be the next scene of the show, takes this hard turn with Giles and you're like what? 'Cause you have this moment of like "what is going on?"
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And then of course it's very apparent, very quickly. I mean, to me watching it, it was very apparent the moment that Giles punched her. You're like OH!
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: You don't-- I don't think…
Jenny: This can't be…
Kristin: Yeah, This can't be right. But-Jenny: And the line that precedes it.
Kristin: What's the line? OH! See I thought-- I didn't right away, I mean the line is terrifying but I was like "what's going on?" I know I've seen this, Iknow that Giles is not [laughs] like an evil character but you know it's still-I was still like "wait, what's going on?" so yeah but-Jenny: What's interesting is right at the beginning of their conversation Xander has a line before you realize that it's a dream where he says "dreams are meaningful"
Kristin: Right!
Jenny: 'Cause she's saying "I just had the weirdest dream"
Kristin: Ugh! There's your Craven.
Jenny: [Right?] dreams are meaningful [makes a noise like a beep?]
Kristin: There's your meta shit coming through and then-- so this is like really disturbing Giles attacks Buffy and then while that attack is happening the creepiest part of the nightmare for me was that when the camera pans to Xander and Willow.
Jenny: Who are just going about their business as if nothing's happening in front of them.
Kristin: They're just-- yeah they're just smiling and whatever which is exactly-- dreams you guys! You know it's like she's come back, she's been traumatized and she feels like Xander and Willow are acting like everything's normal, she's trying to act like everything's normal.
Jenny: Right, right. Then Giles's face comes off and turns out that he's actually the master and this is the first time we see a vampire in sunlight.
Kristin: Oooohh! Jenny, good fact.
Jenny: The first time we see a vampire in daylight. Turns out daylight… the master is still terrible to look upon.
Kristin: [laughs] I could've-Jenny: Fruit punch mouth, still awful.
Kristin: I could've told you that, we didn't have to find out. We could have just asked me to hypothesize and I would have told you.
Jenny: Well, now you know.
Kristin: Right, so she rips the face off, it's the master, it's scary, she wakes up.
Jenny: Angel's just sittin' in her window bein' super hot.
Kristin: Aww, Angel! My note is "Angel hiiiiiii"
Jenny: We're really-- We must know each other
Kristin: Are we morphing into one person?
Jenny: I think we might be because my note is "oh hi Angel in the window"
Kristin: Nice. And then I wondered to myself, is she just mad about the master in this moment or is she really mad that Angel didn't come over to make out? Because I think…
Jenny: No, I think she is mad about the master and also she's projecting an extra layer of stuff onto Angel because he's a vampire. There's extra venom.
Kristin: Yes, but like maybe also a little bit because he doesn't wanna make out.
Jenny: Well he-- she does say that she missed him but it's too late.
Kristin: Right, and like-Jenny: Probably, if he had woken her up by spooning her maybe she would have been less grumpy.
Kristin: She's started by saying "is this a social call? Or are you here on business?" And he was like "I'm here, it's not a social call"
Jenny: Yeah maybe she would have been-- okay, okay.
Kristin: So to me if he was like "just here 'cause I wanna spoon ya" She'd probably be like "yeaahh" Actually she probably wouldn't because you're right that whole other thing is there with the fact that he's a vampire and she's conflicted but it-- my point being they should have just made out. The scene would have been better.
Jenny: [both laugh] That's a great way to improve any and all scenes of season two, is if we could just get Buffy and Angel to be making out. The music cue here I just wanna talk about for one second is this Alison Krauss song called "It Doesn't Matter" and I believe it's played sort of transitionally from the end of this scene into the next scene and the lyric is "It doesn't matter what I want, It doesn't matter what I need, It doesn't matter if I cry, It don't matter if I bleed"
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: Which I feel like is one the more on the nose music cues we've heard so far.
Kristin: Good song selection, do we know how involved Joss was in the music selection?
Jenny: We do not.
Kristin: Because you know, every time that something amazing happens musically I wonder about his involvement because I feel like in conversations we've had, when we talked to Steven last season you know, his whole conversation with us was about how he-- when he went to audition for a part in season one Joss had a piano in his office and you know there are a lot of things that have let us know that Joss Whedon likes music which is why I know he's going to like this podcast.
Jenny: Oh boy.
Kristin: Because it has music in it, whatever! But you know this episode especially right? You're talking about this Alison Krauss song, eventually we're gonna talk about Cibo Matto.
Jenny: Like in five seconds we're gonna talk about Cibo Matto.
Kristin: Right, and so I just, in my mind, in my fantasy of this show Joss Whedon is taking a walk and he has his discman on him and he's listening to Cibo Matto and he's like "oh man, this would be great for the first episode of the second season" [laughs] and then he's like "Someone get me Cibo Matto" and everybody runs and they get him Cibo Matto and that's how it happens so…
Jenny: Yeah I don't have any intel, but just based on sort of what I know about the curation of the soundtrack and the bands they have on the show, and the songs that get used in episodes, they all seem of the same taste for the most part.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: They all seem like they are connected to one person's taste, to me. And I don't know how much I'm projecting or whatever but that would be my guess.
Kristin: Yeah, yeah, so anyway…
Jenny: That he's quite involved.
Kristin: The Alison Krauss song, beautifully placed.
Jenny: [sighs] [whispers] The Alison Krauss song.
Kristin: Means a lot. And then Buffy fucking-- I know you said it already but this horrible heart-wrenching moment when Buffy says "I missed you too" and he's gone because you waited too long Buffy, because you're being an asshole.
Jenny: Yeah, she's just not having a good time, then she's in her car with her mom, she's not saying anything back.
Kristin: My next note is "Buffy! exclamation point Pant! exclamation point Suit! exclamation point"
Jenny: [laughs] Oh she's-- right wearing like a jacketless pantsuit
Kristin: Yeah, she's wearing like a white tank top that's tucked into like Dockers.
Jenny: And like dress pants.
Kristin: They're not Dockers that's the wrong…
Jenny: God do you remember like what-- that was a real thing! We participated, we were complicit.
Kristin: Yeah, It looks great!-- listen, I would wear that outfit tomorrow.
Jenny: Okay?
Kristin: It's a great outfit!
Jenny: Okay, okay, okay.
Kristin: I love the outfit. Speaking of pantsuits and all things fashion. I think this is a good time to hear from our dear friend Kate for Buffy Fashion Watch.
Jenny: Yeaaahh!
[Jenny Owen Youngs performs the Buffy Fashion Watch opening jingle: "It's time for our friend Kate, to give you the Buffy fashion update"]
Kate: Welcome back to Buffy Fashion Watch, as we commence our trek into the glory that is season two. I'll start this segment by saying something pretty shocking, Willow has the best outfit of this episode. I know. But in the very last scene with those pigtails and her belted jeans and that flowered shirt, she looks really cute. It's very adorable. We get Cordelia back, and I know that's where you would expect me to go and she does fine but she's got these bangs. I just don't love, blow-dried, brown brush pc bangs are one of the less flattering byproducts of the 90s. There were hair highlights, except for highlights… which were kind of a low light but anyway what I want to see make a comeback is the makeup. Fun fact, I was actually a makeup artist before I gave up that life for the glamorous world of comic books. So I know a thing or two. This episode has some of my favorite 90s trends and you might not agree with me but that's fine. Brown and coppery pink lipstick, heavy lip liner under metallic gloss bronzer everything in warm tones. This is the era of Bobby Brown where the buzzwords were "frosted" and "brownish black" and everyone wanted to look like Rachel on friends and frankly I think it gets more flack than it deserves. Here's a tip, if you ever decide to do a Buffy costume no matter which female character really, focus on mascara more than eyeliner. Thin brows, it was the time before everybody filled them in. Actually people were plucking them probably more than they should have. And then neutral shadows, and bronzer if you feel like it. Unless you're Cordelia of course, in which case you probably don't give a damn what anyone says. I'll be back in two weeks, until then I'll see you at the mall.
[Jenny Owen Youngs performs the Buffy Fashion Update closing jingle: "That was our friend Kate, she gave you the Buffy Fashion Update"]
Jenny: Thank you Kate for that very educational makeup rundown, I didn't know any of those things. I barely know what mascara is.
Kristin: [laughs] That is a lie, I know you have mascara.
Jenny: But barely!
Kristin: That's true, so a great place to go post Buffy fashion watch is talking about Cordelia again.
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: Because this is the moment in which…
Jenny: Do you agree with Kate? Pro bang? anti bang?
Kristin: I'm pro Cordelia. [laughs]
Jenny: I just like it better when they brush them to the side in this episode rather than just combing them straight down over her forehead.
Kristin: Yeah, no I mean in this scene in the alleyway she has them pushed to the side right?
Jenny: That sounds right.
Kristin: Or she has like a headband on?
Jenny: I think they're only straight down in this scene when she's talking about how…
Kristin: Right, Okay yeah.
Jenny: Of course she didn't tell anyone about that crazy Hellmouth thing 'cause then she would have to tell people she was hanging out with them.
Kristin: Right, so yes I do prefer her with the bangs swept to the side but let me tell you again I will take Cordelia.
Jenny: You prefer Cordelia over no Cordelia, yeah.
Kristin: Anything-- yeah
Jenny: Got it, okay.
Kristin: Cordelia over anything but Cordelia.
Jenny: [laughs] She's off her game calling them the three musketeers.
Kristin: But, but-- aaahhh! I wrote down-- I love this-- this might be my favorite Cordelia moment in the whole episode. It's a tie. But I love this because they're like "Cordelia the three musketeers were really cool" and she's like "hmm, you have a point". Like… [laughs] You know what I mean? She's not like "whatever screw off" she's like "oh shit yeah I'm also familiar with the narrative arc of the three musketeers".
Jenny: Right [both laugh]
Kristin: Okay so yes.
Jenny: I like the personal demons that Xander comes up with as examples that are lust and thrift.
Kristin: [laughs]
Jenny: To be avoided at all costs.
Kristin: Also did nobody tell Cordelia not to tell-- like I really find it hard to believe that they kill the master, they go to prom and no one says to Cordelia "Hey maybe keep this on the DL"
Jenny: There are a lot of instances where, in this show, where it's-- a scene ends and there's no way that they didn't keep hanging out and talking about stuff.
Kristin: Right
Jenny: But yet they'll jump to the scene like "the next morning!" and it's like so anyway… picking up right where we left off last night when we ended the conversation sharply and for no perceivable reason.
Kristin: Right, well anyway I'm glad that she did keep it quiet. And then mynext moment is at the Bronze so I don't know-Jenny: Well Buffy delivers a killing blow to Cordelia when she says "You won't tell anyone I'm the slayer, and I won't tell anyone you're a moron" and then she swishes off and no thank you.
Kristin: And like, you can tell that Cordelia is totally unaffected by it, it doesn't hurt her feelings but it hurt mine.
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: I was hurt, I didn't think that anybody needed to call Cordelia any bad names.
Jenny: Yeah, that was unnecessary.
Kristin: Yeah, and you can see Willow's face is like "yo, what?"
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: I think that's the moment when Willow is first like "okay, something seems super off here. This is not usually how… this is not our normal roles" right? Cordelia should be the one saying something mean, not Buffy
Jenny: Right, right. Okay so we get to the Bronze.
Kristin: Cibo Matto is there.
Jenny: Cibo Matto is playing "Spoon" which is a song that I lo- I actually love both songs that they play but "Spoon" I was interested to learn because I immediately after watching this episode in my current context was like "oh they played two songs and they're from their two albums that I'm very familiar with, I wonder why they played one and then the other and it turns out this episode was in September 1997 right? In between "Viva la Woman" which is where "Sugar Water" appears the first time which is released in 1995 and "Stereotype A" which came out in 1999, they released an EP called "Super Relax" which was comprised of songs from both of those albums and I think a couple of covers so "Sugar Water" and "Spoon" are both on "Super Relax" which came out at the beginning of 1997 so that makes perfect sense that they would play one song from each of their records 'cause they were both kind of on this little…
Kristin: Whoa, Jenny!
Jenny: I- sorry, I needed to know!
Kristin: That's great, I hope we hear more from you like this about music in the show.
Jenny: Well, I'll also tell you that like oh my god after you're done listening to this episode go look up the music video for Sugar Water. I made Kristin watch it and she was like it gave me… it's giving me a headache 'cause I didn't explain anything.
Kristin: Well yeah because the video is like a side by side and I'm gonna just let you know in advance that the one on the left is moving forward and the one on the right is moving in reverse.
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: I didn't have any warning about what this video was and so I'm trying to watch it and it took me the full first minute to even realize that they were going in seperate directions.
Jenny: My bad.
Kristin: I really liked it, like I'm gonna go back and watch it again and I'm sure I will enjoy it but I was- it gave me a pounding headache 'cause I was trying to piece together what was happening in the video but also trying to piece together what was happening in the side by- like you know? It was a lot.
Jenny: And I didn't give you the information you needed up front to truly experience the way it should be experienced but, BUT. and I was worried after we finished watching it I was like "oh Kristin hates Cibo Matto, I really fucked up, oh no" but then I left the room and one minute later I hear "Know Your Chicken" playing and she's watching the video for "Know Your Chicken" which is definitely a stranger song and stranger video than "Sugar Water" or "Spoon" I would maybe check out "Know Your Chicken" after you watch the video for "Sugar Water"
Kristin: Maybe you should check it out, I think if you don't already know it. I didn't know. I think when we had Kate on the show like in here with us. Kate brought up the Cibo Matto episode and I just played along like I also knew about Cibo Matto you know but I didn't, I don't, I mean I've heard their name I know they are a band.
Jenny: Right, right, right.
Kristin: But that's as far as my knowledge went so yeah this was my first…
Jenny: Your proper intro.
Kristin: My proper intro to Cibo Matto.
Jenny: Oh, they're so great.
Kristin: Yeah!
Jenny: Check out their records, they're so great. Anyway.
Kristin: They seem like a lot of fun.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Cool, so then we're at the Bronze and here's a horrible moment.
Jenny: Ohhhhh noooooo!
Kristin: Ohhhh don't do it!
Jenny: In the midst of Xander and Willow talking about how Buffy's being kind of mean Willow tries the ice cream on the nose trick and Xander ignores it and is mean. Oh it's just the woooorrrrssst.
Kristin: It's just so painful to watch!
Jenny: Who would build such a cruel world?
Kristin: Oh Willow!, oh poor sweet Willow with the ice cream on your nose.
Jenny: It's really rough. I knoooowww.
Kristin: My heart in a million pieces. [laughs] and then I guess we must cut to the lair, or to the not the lair but the…
Jenny: The grave of The Master.
Kristin: To the grave of The Master because my note is "God the Anointed One's tiny fucking turtleneck body" I can't deal with the new-- it's like the old season one Anointed One, he's in a hoodie like he's probably wearing Converse, he's not, but in my mind he's Converse, zipped up hoodie.
Jenny: Right, jeans…
Kristin: He's got like a little-Jenny: Now he's like, where's his beret?
Kristin: Yes, yes like a black turtleneck and black pants and then this weird hair coiffe that's happening.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: So upsetting, a turtleneck on a tiny body like that is just, there's just something…
Jenny: You just interrupted him reading some poetry and eating a croissant.
Kristin: Yes, seriously.
Jenny: So the vampires are exhuming the skeleton of The Master and here are two things that need to be said. First of all, the vampire ringleader of this episode who's name is Absalom, which i like because of the William Faulkner novel "Absalom Absalom!" which is a beautifully written novel that I read in college for a southern american literature course.
Kristin: Ohh, do you think that's where his name came from? Probably right?
Jenny: I think so. That's my vibe on it. So Absalom says to the vampire lady with the bangs "don't just stand there, dig" meanwhile he is just standing there.
Kristin: Yeah, well he's like the top one, he's like top dog.
Jenny: Yeah, but he's in service to the Anointed One.
Kristin: He is but it's like, I can see him like-Jenny: His hands are more important than everybody elses.
Kristin: Well like okay, 'cause The Master had the Anointed One right? The Anointed One was The Master's right hand, right?
Jenny: Mhm.
Kristin: And so of course The Master's gone now and so the Anointed One would have a right hand but I feel like that's Absalom, who I didn't know that person's name until right now, you know he's there to oversee and be like-- I also think he's the strength of the operation you know? Like the Anointed one is the brains and…
Jenny: And he's the kind of brawn of like bloused, flapping armed brawn.
Kristin: Yeah [laughs]
Jenny: Such an interesting choice. He kind of runs with his arms out to theside and some of his shrieking is-Kristin: His shrieking is really serious.
Jenny: It's-- he's like a man possessed, which I guess that's exactly kind of the definition of a vampire but the second thing that needs to be said about the location of the grave of The Master is that Giles, Xander and Willow went into a graveyard and just added a grave.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: They just went into a graveyard and they were like "We'll just put one in between these two other ones nobody probably will notice"
Kristin: Also I know I'm getting a little ahead of myself but I don't understand why they buried the skeleton.
Jenny: Well, I think there was a ritual aspect to it but why wouldn't you destroy it?
Kristin: Why wouldn't you? And that is what Buffy asks Giles later in this episode is "If you knew this was even a possibility, why the fuck did you bury the bones" like…
Jenny: Well I think it's just that he was working with the best knowledge he had at the time.
Kristin: No, and I'm not throwing Gile under the bus.
Jenny: We certainly understand why Buffy's like WTFuck.
Kristin: Yeah, totally. So anyway back to the Bronze.
Jenny: Back to the Bronze, now Cibo Matto's playing "Sugar Water" which is a beautiful song that I love so much and also happens to be the greatest song ever for a montage of betrayal, extreme cruelty and kind of sexy stuff or attempted sexy stuff. Also pleased as punch to see that Angel is a Cibo Matto fan. I'm assuming that's why he's at the Bronze, because he loves Cibo Matto.
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah he doesn't say why he's there so…
Jenny: But when we- [laughs] when we're first directed to his attention the both times we watched Kristin and I burst out laughing so hard because he whips his head around on the beat.
Kristin: So the song starts with a spoken word part, right?
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: And then the beat hits and Buffy's shoe hits the ground right on the beat, she has entered. She is wearing a slinky red dress with no back to it whatsoever and she saunters in and then they cut to Angel and he whips around.
Jenny: Just on the beat. Just so perfectly on the beat.
Kristin: Yes it's so dramatic and not suave and hysterically funny
Jenny: Well okay this is like some prime jealous Angel.
Kristin: Well that's the-- yeah.
Jenny: Right? That's like all we see kind of throughout the episode but especially here it's just so raw and great and he's just awww!
Kristin: Ugh! It's really good and also something that's great in this moment is that so you know what's about to unfold is that Buffy essentially is going to use everyone against everyone else.
Jenny: It's the wooorrrsst. But also so crafty!
Kristin: But it's horrible. She's using Xander against Angel, she's using Xander against Willow, it's like everyone in the equation is hurt by this--
Jenny: [sarcastically] Great job Buffy.
Kristin: Great job Buffy but what is so beautiful is that the beat drops, Buffy walks in we see Angel whip around and then as she crosses the room we see Cordy watching over the whole scene. She's not talking to any Cordettes, she's standing back and she's literally observing the scene.
Jenny: Yeah, taking some notes.
Kristin: Taking some notes.
Jenny: Oh my god, then Buffy's all like "I've moved on… to the living!"
Kristin: Right!
Jenny: And it's like oooohhhhh, deep burn! And then Willow's like "what's wrong with Angel?" and it cuts to Angel looking soooooo bummed.
Kristin: So like bejiggity. You know?
Jenny: Super bejiggity, then Buffy's like "I know what to do I'll take Xander onto the dancefloor" Listen! Xander and Buffy together on a dancefloor is the worst chemistry I think I've ever seen! They're too-- it's like Xander and I think Nick Brendan and David Boreanaz are around the same height, maybe Nick Brendan is like an inch taller, maybe? But like for some reason her with Xander looks so disproportionate and he's just kind of standing there and she's doing this weird shoulder roll dance.
Kristin: The shoulder roll.
Jenny: Which listen, you gotta do what you gotta do and I'm notdisrespecting anybody's dance style I'm just saying-Kristin: That shoulder roll though.
Jenny: This particular incarnation, like whatever is being attempted is not being achieved.
Kristin: No, I actually think that something is achieved in this scene, I don'tthink that-Jenny: Oh no I didn't mean like-Kristin: Well but-- like I mean I think that-- I feel like what's being communic-- 'cause I feel like they weren't like "hey Sarah, can you be sexy? And this was what she did" You know what I mean?
Jenny: Right, right, right.
Kristin: I think that there was more to it, it's like she's sort of possessed, I mean she's not but that's the next-- that's the theory that will come up. She's not herself, she's acting so extreme in every way.
Jenny: So she's dancing with Xander weirdly. Willow and Angel are both so bummed and Buffy leaves Xander in the middle of the dancefloor with what we can all only assume is a massive boner.
Kristin: Seriously Jenny?
Jenny: Seriously!
Kristin: Take it back. You have betray- we probably just lost 400,000 listeners.
Jenny: [laughs] Should I redact massive?
Kristin: No, I'm gonna cry.
Jenny: I'm so sorry but like I don't know how penis's work but I'm just assuming here that if you were a teenage boy who was in love with Buffy the Vampire Slayer and then she did that to you and then walked off the dance floor you would probably be left very vulnerable.
Kristin: Right, and that's how she uses Xander against Xander too! She literally gets everyone in this scene.
Jenny: And the look on his face really suggests… something.
Kristin: But also the look on his face while she was dancing with him like I felt like he was very aware of it the whole time.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: He definitely wasn't like "oh man this is the best day of my life" which is, you know what? For some credit to Xander, that's pretty serious. He wasn't just like "You know what? Fuck it. If this is the way I get it this is the way I get it" He was like something's wrong and I don't know what to do.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Also small note, if you go back and watch the scene there's a beautiful pan, a camera pan, where it's going across the dance floor and it sort of like, you can see them dancing and then it goes in front of bodies and I noted it as the choker pan 'cause he goes-- it pans across a person very closely and it's just their neck and they're wearing a choker and then it comes out the other side and they're dancing. And I was like well if that's not a 1990s camera move…
Jenny: Wooow.
Kristin: You know.
Jenny: Choker pan.
Kristin: A choker pan.
Jenny: Then Buffy leaves, just tons of chaos in her wake and Cordelia follows her outside and when Cordelia steps in to tell you that you're being a jerk you know that you must be fucking up.
Kristin: Right? And also there's a great-- I don't know if this was intentional or not in this show but Cordelia says in response to Buffy, 'cause Buffy's like "Oh are you nervous about me being a better bitch than you?" and Cordelia says "I can hold my own" and I just thought it was funny 'cause that's Buffy message the whole time is that she can take care of herself, she can hold her own. So anyway, and then Cordelia comes out to giver her advice and Buffy's like "Fuck off" and Cordelia's like "Fine, I'll go dance with Angel"
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: [laughs] Which I love.
Jenny: But she doesn't get a chance to because she gets carried off by some vampires.
Kristin: But before she gets carried off by the vampires can we just show some Cordelia love for this moment?
[Jenny Owen Youngs performs the Cordelia Jingle: Cordelia ahhh I love you Cordelia ahhh you're perfect Cordelia ahhhh ]
Jenny: Okay so, Cordelia who we love, Cordelia who is perfect has just been carried off by the vampire crew and deposited in the same holding tank where they apparently have Ms. Calendar.
Kristin: And Jenny, on first viewing this scene said "Kiss! Kissss!"
Jenny: Well, 'cause what if they did? They may never escape, this may be their last night on earth. They should have kissed! Although the student/teacher thing is a little inappropriate.
Kristin: Well I bring this up because I think it might-- there's a lot of potential sexual tension awards in this episode.
Jenny: Oh yeaaaahhh.
Kristin: Right? 'Cause obviously you had a moment with Cordelia and Ms. Calendar but there's also Giles and Ms. Calendar, there's also Xander and Willow, there's also Xander and Buffy, there's also Angel and Buffy.
Jenny: There's also Xander, Willow and the vampire.
Kristin: Right, wow. Should we give it to them?
Jenny: I like that idea.
Kristin: Okay, our first non-monogamous sexual tension award.
Jenny: And the first sexual tension award of season two.
Kristin: Going to Xander, Willow and vamp.
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: Beautiful.
Jenny: Congratulations to all.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Okay, so…
Kristin: My next note is just "Giles hates soda"
Jenny: [laughs] Well, Giles does hate soda, he drinks that Coca-Cola and looks like "why did I do this to myself"
Kristin: Yeah, it's like a really-- it's like the moment is so subtle and no attention is called to it.
Jenny: It's great.
Kristin: It's pretty great.
Jenny: So they're talking about how they think Buffy is possessed maybe, right?
Kristin: Right, or as Giles puts it that Buffy might have isthues [issues]
Jenny: Isthues, what you Americans call isthues.
Kristin: Isthues.
Jenny: And then Buffy rolls up and is like "Yo, The Master's grave is empty"
Kristin: Yeah and why doesn't-- like here's the thing I know that they're students and Giles is a teacher but also we know that that's not actually their relationship. Why does Buffy see that The Master's grave is dug up and go home and go to sleep and wake up in the morning…
Jenny: Same thing.
Kristin: …and then come to school and tell everybody. It just seems like they're probably at a point where she would call Giles or go to his house or something.
Jenny: Yeah, but they maybe don't have the budget for that set, that added set.
Kristin: Right, we haven't seen Giles house yet, that's true. So yeah, but anyway she tells them now "guess what, Master's gone missing" dun dun dunnnnn!
Jenny: And then is it right just then while they're having this conversation when the big ol' rock comes through the window with Cordelia's bracelet wrapped around it?
Kristin: Well, no 'cause I think-- I know I thought the same thing but I feel like the conversation starts in the lunchroom or in the cafeteria and then Snyder comes along and he's like "You are students, and you have a job" and you know that shit happens and then he's like "Muh ma ma, we'll talk about trout in the library"
Jenny: Right, right, right.
Kristin: So then they go to the library and this is when the rock comes through the window.
Jenny: And when Buffy's like "I could take care of myself, you guys are dumb, I can't look out for you and fight vampires at the same time, meh meh meh meh meh meh meh"
Kristin: I hated that, that line "I can't look after the three of you anymore" is like super shitty because maybe you don't remember who saved your life like forty times last season Buffy.
Jenny: Yeah maybe you don't remember who actually brought you back to life after you got killed, that was Xander.
Kristin: Right!
Jenny: Doing a great job.
Kristin: Doing a great-- like everyone is-- but she is just I mean this whole episode is Buffy dealing with trauma and so we will give her a pass but I'm gonna say it again it was very hard to watch this episode because a character that I'm supposed to be rooting for is stepping all over characters that I love and feel very protective over.
Jenny: It's tough!
Kristin: So off she goes because she's being and asshole.
Jenny: But Angel's following her in one of Sunnydale's many dark alleys.
Kristin: Yes, yes [laughs]
Jenny: And he says "Why are you riding me?"
Kristin: "Why are you riding me?
Jenny: great question, if somebody's gonna ask me that question I would hope it would be David Boreanaz.
Kristin: Right?
Jenny: Or well, Angel.
Kristin: Also later in this exact moment like in this exact scene Buffy is like "Come on, kick my ass!"
Jenny: Ugh! The worst!
Kristin: There's a lot of stuff happening.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: You know?
Jenny: [sighs] This thing where Buffy decides to try to get Angel to fight her. I mean it's obvious that she just is trying to be the worst possible version of herself and she's really applying herself to that pursuit. Like we get it, the trauma and so on but it is still like ooph to watch.
Kristin: Ugh, Come on.
Jenny: [singing] Girl
Kristin: You know, because she isn't mak-- nothing is really linear here for her it's not like she's like well I must save the world because she stops just to talk to Angel and be like "Do you wanna fight me, let's fight" she's justlike-Jenny: "Kick my ass"
Kristin: Just all over the place
Jenny: And so on, okay so brief interjection.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Really noticing Angel's hair in this episode. Really being reminded that vampires can't see their own reflection. Really, really, really thinking hard about how his hair gets to be the way that it is if he can't see it.
Kristin: Well he's been doing it for 400…
Jenny: His hair did not look like that 242 years ago.
Kristin: Yeah like when does he-- when do you think he decides to change his hairstyle?
Jenny: And when do you think he decides to make it that?
Kristin: What is it in this episode? Spikier?
Jenny: I mean it's just like I guess it's sort of more of the same but I feel like everybody sort of looks like a slightly refined version of their season one selves.
Kristin: Right, right, right.
Jenny: Everybody looks like they did the whole 30 and got a haircut in between seasons.
Kristin: [laughs] Right.
Jenny: And-- sorry I'm just thinking about it, I'm just thinking about it.
Kristin: Yeah, yeah!
Jenny: He makes that happen, he can't see it. He made a choice to like aim for that. It's a whole thing. Just one of the show's many mysteries that we can continue to discuss.
Kristin: I'm with you. Alright. [laughs] So…
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: So of course Buffy goes into this room and you know vamp Cordelia.
Jenny: At the Bronze.
Kristin: At the Bronze, right. And this like Cordelia resembling vamp is crying in the corner and she's like "you can't fool me, I know you're not
Cordelia." And then Angel is like "Okay-Jenny: [in a husky voice] "There's the bait, where's the hook?"
Kristin: That's exactly what he says, very good Jenny. And then they realize of course that the vampires have gone after Willow and Giles and Xander because Buffy has left them because Buffy's being, I don't know if you've noticed, an asshole.
Jenny: Kind of a jerk.
Kristin: Right, and so she runs back to the library, Xander is there beaten, you know his face is all bloody.
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: And he has fucking had it with Buffy.
Jenny: And he says that if they hurt Willow I'll kill you which is interesting because Xander definitely could not kill Buffy.
Kristin: Yeah, but it's the sentiment, you know?
Jenny: Right, right, right. And I think it's that sentiment that really kind of like is one of the things that sort of like…
Kristin: Shakes her.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: Right, like what are you doing and then so she takes Xander back to the Bronze where this…
Jenny: For a little vampire torture.
Kristin: A little vampire torture and here's-- I would like to put in a formal request. Buffy, can you please use the fucking clasp on your necklace to take your necklace off. This is the second time in two episodes that you have ripped it off your neck.
Jenny: She ain't got time for clasps.
Kristin: Like how many chains are we gonna go through?
Jenny: A slayer doesn't have-- it just, enough!
Kristin: Just have some respect!
Jenny: But also, here's a thing. Did you take note of the lady vampire's oral prosthetics?
Kristin: Yeah, they were weird.
Jenny: They were like her-- the gums extended far below-- the upper gum extended far below the lip bottom.
Kristin: Yeah, yeah.
Jenny: And then protruded out really far also, I wonder what that's a result of.
Kristin: Yeah, why-- It's just a choice, I guess 'cause didn't-- there was no explanation for that but I did notice. I did sure notice it. My next question 'cause right they torture her, they find out where they are. Which also, come on vampire, I really thought that she was gonna hold it together, she didn't, she gave it up.
Jenny: I imagine if somebody was pouring like acid down your throat…
Kristin: Yeah, okay.
Jenny: You would probably be like "It's over there!"
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah, I would. And then my question is how long can you hang upside down before you die?
Jenny: A while.
Kristin: Yeah?
Jenny: I think so.
Kristin: I just wanna know if anybody know how long you can hang upside down before you die.
Jenny: Yeah, please send us an email at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com
Kristin: Send us an email, and make sure it's right because then I'm gonna hang upside down for just one second less than you say so you better be accurate.
Jenny: Nice. Yes please be accurate. So she-- they go to where the vampires are holed up, hanging her friends upside down and she's all like "I'm gonna kill 'em all that oughta distract 'em"
Kristin: Right, right, which is a good moment.
Jenny: Yeah, a great moment. Then the ringleader vamp-Kristin: Well, right.
Jenny: Such a zealot.
Kristin: Buffy, the scene where Buffy kills the first vamp, is that what you were gonna talk about, or before that?
Jenny: Yeah, go ahead.
Kristin: It's just so funny to me, she comes up behind the vampire, dusts him, and then is standing of course in his place. In that dead vampires place. And it cuts to what's his name?
Jenny: Absalom.
Kristin: Absalom, who screams, can we just put his scream in here?
NOTES: [Audio from Episode 1 of Season 2 When She Was Bad, Absalom's scream]
Kristin: Wow, okay. So I don't know why, it's all I have to say.
Jenny: We just know that it happened.
Kristin: Yes [laughs]
Jenny: Then he says, after Buffy fights her ass off and dusts all those other vamps he says "I'll grind you into a sticky paste."
Kristin: Yeah, and the next line, which I don't know what it is, but it rhymes with that line because I wrote down does the lead vampire speak in iambic pentameter?
Jenny: [laughs] And I actually looked up all his dialogue before we started taping. We hadn't discussed this yet.
Kristin: No!
Jenny: But I had the same thought. None of his other lines apparently rhyme.
Kristin: He just really went for that one.
Jenny: That was the one.
Kristin: Maybe he only-- maybe his last words are iambic pentameter. Maybe that's his deal. 'Cause that is-- I mean I don't know, I'm just saying Iambic Pentameter I don't think it actually checks out.
Jenny: 'Cause isn't pentameter…
Kristin: Needs more than two lines.
Jenny: Ba-da ba-da ba-da ba-da ba-DAH. Ba-da ba-da ba-da ba-da ba-DAH.
Kristin: Yeah,
Jenny: Right, and this is: "I'll grind you into a sticky paste"
Kristin: Oh, it's missing a whole syllable.
Jenny: it's missing a whole syllable.
Kristin: Oh, it's like the worst form of any-Jenny: Yeah, I'm sorry we even did that to your ears, carry on.
Kristin: Anyhow, so Buffy snaps a candelabra, she sets him on fire, she uses the other end, I think, of the candelabra to kill the other guy.
Jenny: Yep, yep, yep.
Kristin: And then Willow is like "It's over" and Xander is like "No, it's not" Right? knows…
Jenny: 'Cause Buffy has to go whack-a-Master.
Kristin: Oh boy.
Jenny: What do you think about the term I just coined?
Kristin: Did you work hard on that?
Jenny: I did not. It came to me in an instant.
Kristin: You just made it up right now. Whack-a-Master.
Jenny: Whack-a-Master.
Kristin: One of the trivia facts that I read on IMDB before we taped was that there's apparently, I didn't notice this during our watch, but there's apparently a hand, like one of the master's bone hands that only has the middle finger left on it, that is I guess given some screen time.
Jenny: It's yeah-- and it's like aimed at Buffy.
Kristin: At one-- yeah, one moment it's aimed at Buffy so hopefully that was intentional.
Jenny: Um, I have a question. Unrelated to this specific episode but we see it here. We've seen Angel fight vampires and don vamp face while he's doingit and my question is: can vampires detect other vampires if they're not in vamp face? Do vampires know each other because they like-- we think they can smell blood right? We think maybe they're more sensitive to body heatthan-Kristin: But there is an episode in season one where they specifically tell Angel to, oh no maybe they tell him to put on his vamp face.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: I see, so I don't have an answer.
Jenny: So yeah, so we'll just have to keep an eye.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And a fang on that.
Kristin: Yep, just one fang. So Buffy of course, smashes all of the Master'sbones and it's-Jenny: And it's clear that she has received at least some of the catharsis that she desperately needed to help process her trauma. She's crying in Angel's arms, everyone's looking on knowingly.
Kristin: And then we cut to Cordelia, who is so excited to have a new person to talk to about the most recent goings on of the Hellmouth.
Jenny: [laughs] "What an ordeal" she says.
Kristin: She's like oh my god, Jenny Calendar, after we made out in that-[laughs] after we made out at the bronze and then we got in that fight, it took me so long to get those rust stains out of my shirt. Jenny Calendar is like "oh boy"
Jenny: "Yeah, yeah that really is the worst thing about being hung upside down by a clan of vampires that wants to drain you of all your blood". And then we see Buffy talking to Giles. She's scared to see her friends.
Kristin: Yeah, and Giles has another dadly moment here.
Jenny: Best dad ever! Dad of the year.
Kristin: Right? Dad of the year, where he's just like you know Buffy, he tries to be comforting and says this isn't the worst mistake you'll ever make. But it's-- I think that lands well you know. It's okay to make mistakes and we understood that you were going through something very real here. They were all there with her, they all saw what happened and allowed, of course, for their friend to process grief and process trauma which is what friends and watchers should do.
Jenny: Aww.
Kristin: Did you like that?
Jenny: I really did.
Kristin: I'm so glad.
Jenny: So-Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Well Xander and Willow saved Buffy a seat in class.
Kristin: [laughs]
Jenny: They saved her a seat and then they start making jokes. Ahhhh, yaaay!
Kristin: Oh, and like the best kind of jokes you know?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Because they're making jokes about the teacher but then Xander's like "or we could just smash the bones of our nemesis or whatever."
Jenny: …enemies into talcum powder but gee, we did that last night
Kristin: Right. And that's like, I just feel like that's the sign of a true friend is like when something horrible happens to you and you need to laugh and they knot the boundaries, right? They know that the only way to actually get through this is to call it out and make a joke of it and he knows that, and they do that and they're the scoobies. I have like "Scoooobies!!"
Jenny: Yeah, and then the perfect synthesis, you know like the coming together of their personalities and the levity and the seriousness and everything triggers that most recognizable of television tropes. The inspirational piano song!
Kristin: Yeah!
Jenny: That enters as we sort of pan around them a little bit for like, you think the credits are gonna come up…
Kristin: But they don't, but also before we leave this scene…
Jenny: Oh yeah!
Kristin: This orchestrated scene, there's a couple of things I wanna talk about. One is that I really like that Xander is like "We should play mini-golf" and then you know he gets shot down and then you barely hear him and he's like "how 'bout mini-tennis?"
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: So that got me, but more importantly very solid nineties outfits happening on all thr-- well, all three of them but Willow has a great outfit, Xander's wearing one of those shirts where the collar and the button part is very white.
Jenny: Oh gosh. I think that's a button placket?
Kristin: Oh my goodness, okay.
Jenny: I think, I think.
Kristin: Well, it's just very-- it brought back memories. Both of their outfits. Willow's shirt looked like those Delia's thermals I used to have like a million of them, like one with ducks and one with you know…
Jenny: Oh boy, one with ducks.
Kristin: Yeah, just like patterns. But Buffy… Buffy-Jenny: What does she? Oh she has the sweater around her shoulders but it's like is it--?
Kristin: It's not tied.
Jenny: How is it? It's just a sweater that comes with the sleeves sewn together? For shoulder wearing.
Kristin: It looks like it's pinned together, I don't know.
Jenny: Is that a thing? I feel like I've seen lots of people but I guess maybe I'm used to seeing them with them tied.
Kristin: No, never! Yeah, they're usually one sleeve wrapped in the other so I don't know what's going on there but I just had to call it out.
Jenny: Thank you!
Kristin: Made sure that it gets its due. And then right, we're done with this scene the scoobies thank goodness are reunited.
Jenny: [singing] Back together again!
Kristin: Back to business, back to friendship and then stupid anointed one.
Jenny: Yeah, stupid mini turtleneck.
Kristin: But he got a good laugh out of me when he's like "I hate that girl" It was good, it was a good delivery Anointed One.
Jenny: [sighs] wow.
Kristin: Well…
Jenny: Do we have anything else that we need to say about this episode?
Kristin: Well we touched on sexual tension, we got the patriarchy.
Jenny: Yeah! Those are all the requirements, are in!
Kristin: Uh yeah I think we got-- Oh! I know.
Jenny: What?
Kristin: Giles got knocked out again.
Jenny: Oh yeaaaahhhh! So what do we say? That's five?
Kristin: Yeah, 'cause we miscounted last season.
Jenny: Yeah, we thought there were three but there really four.
Kristin: But there were four, yeah.
Jenny: In season one.
Kristin: There were four from season one and so now we're at five.
Jenny: Alright, five knockouts for Rupert Giles.
Kristin: Beautiful.
Jenny: Alright, Well this has been fantastic, thank you so much for joining us for the first episode of season two.
Kristin: Yeeessssss.
Jenny: We are thrilled to be back.
Kristin: So thrilled.
Jenny: I'm Jenny Owen Youngs and when I'm not watching Buffy I'm usually writing and recording songs, you can hear them and learn more about me at jennyowenyoungs.com/buffering where I've curated a little playlist just for you guys of my non-Buffy songs. You can also give me a shout on Twitter @Jennyowenyoungs.
Kristin: I'm Kristin Russo and you can find me talking up a storm over at my Twitter account Kristinnoeline, K-r-i-s-t-i-n-n-o-e-l-i-n-e. When I am not podcasting about Buffy the Vampire Slayer I work to bring advice, resources and laughter to LGBTQ young people and their families over at everyoneisgay.com and mykidisgay.com.
Jenny: Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on Twitter @Bufferingcast and on Facebook at facebook.com/bufferingcast. You can shoot us an email at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin: As always you can support our work by leaving a review on itunes for us or by sharing this podcast with your friends and loved ones who you think would enjoy it and we have a brand new way for you to support us. In season two we have launched our own Patreon channel.
Jenny: Woooooo.
Kristin: Yeah, it's really exciting, we're found at patreon.com/bufferingcast and if you're not familiar with Patreon it's a really incredible platform. It allows us to share all of our content for free so like our podcast will always be up there for free. Any content that you are already getting you will still get for free, nobody panic. But what it also allows us to do is have levels of giving and for each level you get fun perks. So, if you give a dollar a month you get to come to the Buffy watches that we will be doing every few months. Sit with us, watch Buffy together with us, we did one on Halloween this past year and so it's super fun, super great. If you give at the five dollar level you will get the mp3 file of the song every week sent to you before the release of the full album. And I don't know if you know how many episodes are in this season but there's twenty-two.
Jenny: So it's gonna be a little while before the album's out.
Kristin: You can be patient and you can wait and totally understand but if you are able to donate five dollars a month you will get those songs emailed to you and you can listen to them right away. And at the ten dollar level you get all of that, so you're coming to the Buffy watches, you're getting the mp3 files every week as they're released, and you also get the fun little songs too, so if we ever do like a Spike jingle for example…
Jenny: Could happen!
Kristin: Foreshadowing, you would get that as well. And with the ten dollar level you also get 20% off of merch at all times. You get a Q & A videos from Jenny and I every so often we'll come on, we'll open it up to questions that you can ask and then we'll make a little video in response that you can see. And you'll also get some bonus mailbag episodes. We get a really good amount of mail from you all and we're gonna do some extra episodes for those ten dollar a month supporters. So, go on over, check it out patreon.com/bufferingcast and you'll also see that our Union Hall show is up there for free as well so if you wanna go over there you can download it or stream it, and check out what we were up to in Brooklyn last December!
Jenny: Yeeessssss. And don't forget you can grab all of our songs from season one on itunes, spotify, wherever you get your digital music or by heading over to bit.ly/shopbuffering where we still have a few cds available as well as great shirts designed by Christine Tuna and great pins designed by our very own fashion watch corespondent, Kate Leth.
Kristin: Yes. And last but certainly not least if you are in the Los Angeles area come out and see us on February 2nd at Nerd Melt showroom you can find out more at nerdmelt.la.com. Again that's February 2nd, I believe it starts at 7pm. It's gonna be super fun, I think if we're on track we're gonna be talking about Reptile Boy.
Jenny: Seems right.
Kristin: Live, and we're gonna have Chris Farren with us as a guest, we're also going to have…
Jenny: Brittany Nichols.
Kristin: Brittany Nichols as a guest, we may have one or two additional fun surprise guests with us as well. So it's gonna be really fun, come check us out. We like you guys.
Jenny: You're pretty great. We'll be back next week and every week forever! With more episodes.
Kristin: For literally forever.
Jenny: Forever and ever.
Kristin: These seasons are long now!
Jenny: Okay, till next time
Jenny and Kristin: Awooooooooooooo! [Jenny Owen Youngs performs "When She Was Bad" from the album "Songs from Season Two" by Buffering the Vampire Slayer"] When it was done I went away, babadabada Left my friends behind, tried to forget, tried to forget Now I'm back it's all the same, babadabada Nothin' new except this dark inside me, dark inside me I'm made of stone If you don't wanna get hurt then you gotta be harder than the thing that's hitting you If you don't wanna get hurt then you gotta be harder than, harder than None of them can understand, babadabada I don't need them, I can handle myself, handle myself But it's lonely where I am, babadabada Now I'm feelin like I can't see clearly, can't see clearly Don't leave me alone If you don't wanna get hurt then you gotta be harder than the thing that's hitting you If you don't wanna get hurt then you gotta be harder than, harder than Got so wrapped up that I forgot about protecting you Now we're here and I see clear that you protect me too If we don't wanna get hurt then we gotta be harder than the thing that's hitting us If we don't wanna get hurt then we gotta be harder than, harder than