Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 4.13: The I in Team
Jenny: Support from today's episode comes from Poshmark. Poshmark is the easiest way to buy and sell fashion items like say, a leather duster or a patrol halter! Download the free Poshmark app to score amazing deals from tons of brands or list your own items and wait for the offers to roll in. Shipping is fast and easy and is all handled directly through the app. Today you can get $5 off your first purchase when you enter the invite code 'Slayer5' when you sign up for Poshmark.
NOTES: [CHIME]
Kristin: [Sings] Hello everybody, welcome to December do do do do do do. Now that I'm alone up in the intro, I just really feel like I have full reign to do and say whatever I please. We are going to get into The I In Team very shortly, but before we do a few things. First of all, London, we aren't there yet as I'm recording this, but by the time this gets into your little Scooby ears, we will have probably met oh, you know James Marsters, and other Buffy alum over at the London Vampire Ball. Follow us on Instagram, on Twitter or on Facebook or all three @bufferingcast and you can see those pictures stay updated and Patrons, we are going to send you some extra content from our time at the Con as well. If you want to become a Patron, of course, bufferingthevampireslayer.com, just click on Patreon and you can find out all of the wonderful, lovely, brilliant things that you get by being one of our Patrons. Seattle, we are getting closer to coming out to your city. January 19th and 20th we will be at PodCon and stay tuned because we will hopefully have some details on a meetup that we are arranging for January 21st in the early afternoon. Now before I get to the other newsy news, we of course have to get to Spooky News.
NOTES: [SPOOKY NEWS jingle plays] Spooky news!
Kristin: Alright, I'm going to get historical with this Spooky News because I want to keep you on your toes. It doesn't have to be something that just happened. It can be something that happened, I don't know, when King Louis - let's see, X - I V, that's 10, 5 and 1. So 10 and 5 and 5 is 4 - 14th? King Louis the 14th! King Louis the 14th. Okay. I did it there live for you, so you would know that I not only understand Roman numerals, but I can compute them very quickly in my head. So this is a news story from a long, long time ago and it's about when King Louis the 14th died. Okay? So here's the deal. He died and his heart was removed from his body and embalmed because his dad's heart, King Louis the 13th - a much easier Roman numeral to read for me - his heart had been embalmed. So they were like, "okay, dad's hearts over here so son King is going to go over here." There's these two embalmed hearts. That's not even the spooky part. First of all, the heart of King Louis the 14th didn't stay next to the dads for long because the English noblemen - this dude Lord Harcourt - was such a fan of King Louis the 14th that he acquired the heart and placed it in a silver casket, which he would occasionally take out to show to his guests. Okay, so we have two Kings, a dad and a son, both of their hearts are embalmed. They're supposed to stay together, but this dude, Lord Harcourt, is like, "but I love King Louis the 14th." I want to know how much sexual attention was happening here. Gets the heart, puts it in a casket. That's not the spooky news either because one of the guests whom Lord Harcourt showed the heart to was this dude William Buckland, who was a British theologian. He also famously described and named the first known dinosaur megalosaurus. This dude is like, really - you should read about William Buckland, lots of information on this dude, but I'm not going to tell you all of it. I'm just going to let you know that this dude had made it his life's mission to taste every animal he could. So when Harcourt shows him the embalmed heart of Louis the 14th Buckland's like, "yeah, dude, let me eat that shit." He ate it. He ate the heart. He ate King Louis the 14th's heart. Now, he died shortly after eating the heart. I looked into this 'cause I was like, is it 'cause he ate the heart?! But it was far enough after that I don't think the heart actually killed him. He was buried in Saint Nicholas' church yard in Oxfordshire, England. Maybe we'll have time to go and see that grave site of William Buckland and Louis the 14th is buried in the St Denis Basilica, but he doesn't have his heart. So his heart is in the belly of Buckland over in Oxfordshire. I mean, I think it's pretty spooky. Please, please send me all of your spooky news. Email me at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com if you see a new news story, if you see an old news story, send it all my way. I will choose these news stories and report them to you dutifully every episode. Until next time, that's been spooky news.
NOTES: [SPOOKY NEWS jingle plays] Spooky news!
Kristin: Okay, as I mentioned, we're in December and that means it's time to get your holiday gifts if you haven't already. If you didn't already know this, we have new palm hats that say Jenny's now infamous catchphrase 'wow, wow, wow, wow.' How many wows was that? 'Wow, wow, wow, wow.' Yeah, it says it 4 times across the hat. We have kids sized 'smash the demon lizard patriarchy' t-shirts, we have mugs back in stock, we have 'alewife' t-shirts. We have so many things and as many of you know, we host all of our merch through a place called Hello Merch. We love Hello Merch. And also Angel On Top, Jenny Owen Youngs and Gay Stuff By Kristin, my new little store, are all hosted at Hello Merch, which means you can get things from all four of those placesif you want. You can get an 'alewife' tee and a 'patriarchy' mug by us. You can check out Angel On Top's new 'Cordelia' t-shirt or their new 'big demon energy' enamel pin. You can grab some of Jenny's music or some of her t-shirts. She has awesome shirts and sweatshirts for you and you can go and grab some gay stuff in my store, Gay Stuff By Kristin. You can put it on the same cart! Fun for the whole family. Also, while we're talking about gift giving, 'tis the season, whatever that means. No, we do know what it means, actually, in this case. Many of you have been asking about our handwritten lyric sheets because you want to get some for your loved ones for the holidays. We have put up 5, I don't know how many remain because we put them up last week, but hopefully there are still some there for you. All of the proceeds from the handwritten lyric sheets will go to benefit Trans Lifeline. Definitely a really awesome time to be giving some dollars to Trans Lifeline. They do incredible work, you can check them out translifeline.org. There's 5 sheets, that's all we're going to be able to do this holiday season. So grab them if you want one. And they are now up in our actual store, so they're no longer in their own little place, you can get them just by going to bufferingthevampireslayer.com clicking on 'Shop'. So you'll see all that good stuff, plus the lyric sheets. And again, 100% of the proceeds go to benefit Trans Lifeline. We will be back in your ears on December 19th with an episode for Goodbye Iowa before we take a couple of weeks off for the holidays and you might want to tune into that episode for a few reasons. One of which is that we'll have a pretty fun announcement up in that intro. Okay. I think we're ready to talk about The I In Team.
NOTES: [Buffering the Vampire Slayer theme plays]
Jenny: Hello and welcome to Buffering The Vampire Slayer, a podcast where we are watching and discussing every episode of Buffy The Vampire Slayer, one at a time, spoiler-free. My name is Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: Y'alright?
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: You gonna make it?
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: Okay. My name is Kristin Russo and this week we are talking about Season 4, Episode 13, The I In Team. Funny. I didn't think there was an 'I' in team.
Jenny: There's not, but there's an 'M' and an 'E'.
Kristin: Oh wow. Deep. I guess we'll get there. Stay tuned at the end of this podcast every week for an original song written by us recapping the Buffy episode we are discussing and listen, if you haven't yet started listening to our Angel podcast, Angel On Top, hosted by Brittany Ashley and Laura Zak, what are you doing?
Jenny: What indeed? The I In Team was written by David Fury and directed by James A. Contner, originally aired on February 8th in the year 2000.
Kristin: This is the one where Buffy teams up with Riley after she's allowed access to The Initiative. Spike is targeted by commandos. Weird - it's a weird summary. I feel like those are important points but they're like, "Anya plays poker." It just feels like they could have gone a little bit more in depth with the whole thing.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Jenny, before we go any further, I'd like to let you and our listeners know that I have graduated to my 5th notebook of Buffy notes.
Jenny: Congratulations.
Kristin: Yes, The I In Team marks the first entry into a notebook number 5 of my ongoing notebook - she's scoffing at me.
Jenny: No I'm not scoffing at you. I'm just like, eurgh, of all the episodes to start a new notebook on. It's like, eurgh.
Kristin: Yeah, it's a little anticlimactic. But, nevertheless.
Jenny: So is your first note in your new notebook poker night?
Kristin: No, actually my first notebook - my first note in my notebook is "previously, lol Spike, the rose, you're strong, I like it."
Jenny: [Shouts] Dude!
Kristin: [Laughs] Those were my 'previously on' highlights. I was really glad that we got to see the rose highlighted again after I just edited and we're about to put up the episode for A New Man and so I just recently listened to you and Kate and I talk about the rose and taking the petals off the rose. We just had a good time with it, so I was delighted to see it in the 'previously on', and then just Riley being like, "you're strong. I like it."
Jenny: I think that's a great look for Riley.
Kristin: Oh yeah! I mean, I'm pretty into it. I think it's like - I mean, I've been recently trying to analyze everyone's kinks, which is really very present in this episode actually, and I think that one of Riley's developing kinks is he's learning that he is turned on by a woman who can bench press him.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: You know?
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: And who doesn't get that?
Jenny: No, no, I'm on board.
Kristin: So now we're at the poker table.
Jenny: Yeah, Anya's got a couple of kinks.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Money.
Kristin: [Laughs] Money. Money is probably her top kink.
Jenny: Is this the first time we've seen Anya and money?
Kristin: I think so. It's hard to say 'cause I have so - I have all of the Anya money memories in my memory bank.
Jenny: Sure, sure, sure.
Kristin: No pun intended. But, I think this is the first time that she's - 'cause it's almost like we're learning - it's almost like we're watching her learn what money can do in real time in this episode, right? 'Cause she's like on Xander for selling these bars, and he's like, "but money will mean I can buy you things" and you see her perk up. I think yes is the short answer.
Jenny: And also spanking.
Kristin: And yes, Anya's other kink is spanking. Now, who do you think spanks who?
Jenny: Yeah, is it her kink or is it Xander's and which direction is it going? Difficult to say.
Kristin: I very much imagine it's Anya spanking Xander. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry, everyone.
Jenny: I don't want to imagine that. I don't want to imagine that in either direction.
Kristin: I just got fired. The Watcher's Council just fired me from this podcast. I'm just saying that I think that it goes in that direction. I don't think it was Xander's idea, I think it was Anya's idea. You know? It's Anya's kink, but it flows in that direction.
Jenny: Jesus.
Kristin: That's what I think. But listen -
Jenny: I hate thinking about this.
Kristin: I cannot wait to get all of your emails telling me what I did wrong in analyzing this spanking kink. Speaking of kinks, Xander is looking ripped. Have you - did you notice his fucking arms?
Jenny: No.
Kristin: Jenny!
Jenny: Can you believe that I didn't notice?
Kristin: You're the one on hunk-watch. What the hell?
Jenny: I know. I don't know!
Kristin: Well he's wearing this blue sweater in the scene that is painted on his body.
Jenny: Oh yeah, now that you say it, it's ringing a couple of bells.
Kristin: It's ringing some bells for you? Yeah. I'm here for painted on sweaters when you have some guns like that. You know what I mean? I like it. I like it. Xander is, we learn, selling those energy bars that Regina George loves. You know? The ones that are full of - no carbs?
Jenny: Full of, as he puts it, fatty goodness is the way he describes the ingredients.
Kristin: Yeah, that's really - I mean, the point of this scene for me is that we learned that Anya and Xander are spanking, that Willow learns it, that Xander drops his cards everywhere when it's revealed.
Jenny: Which is further evidence that he's the one getting spanked, I feel like.
Kristin: You think?
Jenny: I dunno, I feel like he would be less berjikity about it if he was administering the spanking.
Kristin:[Laughs] administering! I think that he is uncomfortable with the idea of spanking no matter what. I think he would've dropped the cards even if he were spanking Anya.
Jenny: Yeah, okay.
Kristin: You know?
Jenny: Yeah, I see that.
Kristin: Wow. Well, as predicted, we have already talked about spanking for five full minutes in this episode and more to come. So the other piece of this scene, of course, is to establish that they are worried about Buffy's involvement with The Initiative. And then, you know, we cut to this test that they're doing to measure her abilities. Shout out to Buffy's black beanie is back. The black beanie is back, the black toque. We will hear from Kate Leth later in this episode, so I want to make sure that everyone's languages are the same language here, but she's wearing the black beanie and a nice silver coat kicking all the ass all over town.
Jenny: Dude.
Kristin: Yes? I assume you're referring to me 'dude'? Or the collective listenership 'dude'?
Jenny: Yeah, both. This is great. Love seeing this. Love seeing Buffy kick everyone's ass.
Kristin: [Laughs] When your upper lip sticks to your teeth, you're really going in a particular place. Where are we going?
Jenny: [Laughs] I just really like it. I feel like it took them 42 minutes to track her and she neutralized them in 28 seconds.
Kristin: Yes, which is, excuse me, a little bit of hellmath.
NOTES: [HELLMATH jingle plays] Hellmath!
Kristin: Oh, so lovely to hear the hellmath jingle.
Jenny: Yeah, so -
Kristin: [Laughs] You're like, "yeah, anyway."
Jenny: I mean, we lived it, we all heard it. I'm still working on my point, which is - well it's two things. First of all, I love how pleased Riley is. This is extending from what we just saw in the 'previously on'. I love how giddy he is, he's like, "my girlfriend kicked everybody's ass. Tight." And also I just feel like - to get way ahead of ourselves - we assume Professor Walsh is a smart lady. She's heading up a secret government operation that deals specifically with supernatural whatnots and her big plan to take out Buffy later in the episode is to just trap her in a sewer with two pull Polgara demons that they have under like mind control.
Kristin: Yeah, I agree 100%.
Jenny: When she just took out a slew of GI Joes. This is just very poor planning.
Kristin: I agree. I agree. And I got there at the end of the episode too, where I was like, wait, this was your plan? You literally -
Jenny: Thought you were some kind of mastermind.
Kristin: Yeah. Not a great mastermind plan, but whatever.
Jenny: So. Love Buffy recounting in the lunchroom -
Kristin: Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
Jenny: Wait, what did I miss?
Kristin: You missed Professor Walsh is going to pivot to want to kill Buffy. But in the first moment when she comes out of that fucking truck and she's looking at Buffy, who has just done this thing that she's never seen anyone do. She is hot, hot, hot for Buffy. She's just looking at her and my note is 'please go back and pause for Walsh's love eyes.' Okay. The other thing that I want to point out, because this is an episode - I mean really this is a sexual tension episode. It's just full of kinks and all sorts of nonsense. So Graham is like, "hey buff, thanks" and Forrest is like "fucking Buffy" which will set off the course of Forrest's narrative for this episode, which is he's so pissed that his boyfriend has a new girlfriend.
Jenny: Uhuh. Yes he is.
Kristin: Okay. Yes. Now we can get to the lunchroom. Oh boy. I have things to talk about in the lunchroom.
Jenny: OK, so this whole deal where she's like, "and then I kicked all of the commandos asses, and then I used one of them as a shield and he absorbed the last of 12,000 volts. This is fine." What?!
Kristin: [Laughs] Yeah. I mean, I guess in military training, you do suffer some injuries and stuff, right? I don't know. We're really not skilled enough -
Jenny: I think it's supposed to be a secret.
Kristin: Oh [laughs]
Jenny: I mean, that's what I've heard from people that I've known -
Kristin: You were never more than a tiny child than in that moment.
Jenny: Well, that's what I've heard -
Kristin: [Imitates Jenny] "I think it's supposed to be a secret."
Jenny: - From people who've gone through a Marines boot-camp. They're like, "it's really bad and I wish I never did it, but I can't tell you anything about it."
Kristin: Right, right, right, right. I would imagine that there's probably - not to this extent, but I would imagine that there's some bodily trauma when you're learning how to be a soldier.
Jenny: Oh yeah and not to mention psychological trauma.
Kristin: Yes. So, okay. So, Jenny, you have a segment that you've began, begun? Whatever, called, well, does it have a name? It's like 'Riley's Palm size' -
Jenny: [Shouts] 'The size of Riley's hands on Sarah Michelle Gellar's body watch 2019'.
Kristin: Yes. So we'll get that.
Jenny: I mean 2018 I mean - what year is it?
Kristin: When this episode airs and will still be 2018. [Laughs]
Jenny: Thank you. I don't know, they just started selling Christmas tree candy on November 1st. I'm all turned around.
Kristin: Yeah, we're really in it, we're in the thick of things now. But Riley - so okay, fine, right. They're having this exchange and Riley walks in and Buffy is immediately distracted, and Willow's like, "what?" And she's like, "Riley just walked in" and pan to Riley picking up every apple in the basket for so long. He just picks up an apple, the cut is just like two seconds too long.
Jenny: Dude, there's a really great Riley cut later that's like two seconds too long that I can't wait to talk about. Maybe that's the theme of this episode.
Kristin: [Laughs] Just a little bit too much of Riley. Oh my god. I also have a - oh my god, I have a moment from later that fucking kills me. We'll get there. Okay. So anyway, Riley palming apples just reminded me of your segment.
Jenny: Oh yeah. 'The size of Riley's hands on the apples in the lunchroom watch 2018'.
Kristin: I know it's mostly specific to Sarah Michelle Gellar, but I just feel like -
Jenny: He's a huge man living in a regular sized world.
Kristin: I feel like the segment should be the size of Riley's palms, you know, on whatever -
Jenny: Yeah, his hand. His whole hand.
Kristin: His whole hand.
Jenny: Because we're not usually seeing his palms. We're seeing just -
Kristin: The wrap of his fingers?
Jenny: Either the wrap of his fingers, exactly. Obscuring his palms because they are adjacent to whatever he is gripping.
Kristin: So anyway, he chooses - after all that Apple palming he chooses a Twinkie.
Jenny: Can we just talk about - Twinkies are disgusting.
Kristin: Yeah. But Twinkies were such a thing in the 90s. I mean, they still are such a thing.
Jenny: But they're so gross. There are so many - okay, butterscotch crumpets, oatmeal cream pies, Ding Dongs. What were the other ones that were like Ding Dongs but they were hot dog-shaped? Rolos? No. Rolos are candy.
Kristin: Rolos are candy. But I do know what you mean. I don't know what they're called.
Jenny: There's like two -
Kristin: [Shouts] Devil Dogs!
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: Devil Dogs. Wow.
Jenny: Exactly.
Kristin: I can't believe that just came out of my brain.
Jenny: All of that sort of single serve, most extreme cake stuff.
Kristin: Sure. But most of what you listed are either chocolate-based cakes with cream filling or they have frosting of some kind. So what about the people who don't want as much of the sweet stuff and they just want the vanilla cake? That's what the Twinkies are for.
Jenny: I would say Twinkies and oatmeal cream pies have a comparable amount of cream.
Kristin: So you're going oatmeal cream pie over Twinkie, any day?
Jenny: Oatmeal cream pie was actually my tip-top, number 1 fave.
Kristin: Actually, I fucking loved an oatmeal cream pie, I do have to admit.
Jenny: At my mom's house we never had any trash -
Kristin: [Laughs] Meaning, food like this?
Jenny: [Laughs] Yeah. But at my dad's house there was soda and oatmeal cream pies. And I would wait for my dad to go to bed and then I would turn on MTV, which we didn't have at my mom's house, and I would drink a Pepsi or sometimes a Coke. My stepbrothers - one of them preferred Coke and one of them preferred Pepsi, so there was always both. It was fucking wild over there.
Kristin: You got both?! What kind of fucking wonderland is this?!
Jenny: It was like Eden. And then I would eat it an oatmeal cream pie, drink soda, watch MTV or The Legendary Journeys of Hercules or later, when there was a spinoff, Xena Warrior Princess.
Kristin: Wow. Getting in all of your candy both visually and edibly.
Jenny: I was like, my dad can never know that I'm eating this oatmeal cream pie, that I'm drinking this soda, that Xena is making me gay. Help!
Kristin: [Laughs] Oh wow. Wow. What a monologue that was. Also, I think it's really nice that you said it was like Eden in an episode where we meet Adam for the first time. Just saying!
Jenny: Oh god. Fuck, fuck, fuck. When people say they want to delete this season, I just feel like we're really starting to get a face full of it right now.
Kristin: Well Adam is pretty rough, yeah. The whole thing is pretty rough. But I'm having a joy in this episode. I took so many notes and I laughed aloud. But that's the thing about Buffy, right? Is that -
Jenny: Even the worst season is still great.
Kristin: But it's because we love the fucking characters so much. So in these episodes where the plot is just what?! And the ancillary stuff is like, what?! We still have our Willow, we still have our, you know, our core characters who are like, oh, Giles and Spike! You know, we get the delights we need to keep us keeping on.
Jenny: The delights!
Kristin: So this scene ends, of course, in the lunchroom with Willow saying "everyone's getting spanked, but me."
Jenny: [Clears throat]
Kristin: She's really upset. And so, since we've been talking about spanking so much, Jenny, I couldn't think of anywhere we should go but to our dear friend Kate Leth.
Jenny: Queen of fashion, queen of spanking.
NOTES: [Fashion Watch intro theme plays] It's time for our friend Kate To give you the Buffy fashion update!
NOTES: [Christmas music plays] Oh zigzag part, oh zigzag part How lovely are thy angles You're roots so brown, your ends so white Like darkness fading into light Oh zigzag part, oh zigzag part How lovely are they angles
Kate: Welcome back to Buffy Watch into the holiday season yet again. This isn't a holiday episode, but I'm getting in the spirit and how could I be inspired by anything more than I am inspired by Tara McClay's hair. We've talked on episodes where I've guested, I think I've mentioned it in Fashion Watches before, but I was an avid wearer, user worshipper of the zigzag part in my hair for all of the years that I watched Tara do the very same. This is a really exciting episode if you're a Tara fan and I'm a Tara fan because I'm a person with a heart who lives and exists in this world. It is so exciting to see her. It is so exciting to watch her talk to Willow, and even though it's early days and it's stumbling days. Oh Willow, you're so sad that everyone's getting spanking, but you, but just give it time. Speaking of Willow, because I must, she's at her fashion best in this episode as far as Willow goes in the, you know, 2000s. I think her hair looks really cute. I have so much nostalgia for these knit sweaters, all this crocheted and fuzzy fabric and ridiculous long skirts and giant chunky heels and even Buffy is wearing one of those super long skirts, although she is also wearing a very cute cropped leather jacket thing with wrist cuff bracelets, which is just a great look even today. And of course I will mention, because I think I would be fired if I didn't, the fact that yes, she wears it toque. If you don't know what a toque is, a toque is the Canadian way to say beanie. It's a French word. It is T-O-Q-U-E and every single time someone says beanie to me, I assume they mean the floppy hat that sort of hangs off the back of your head that every boy you dated in college that you probably shouldn't have was wearing. And every girl that you should date now is probably wearing. But yes, Buffy's wearing one and she's pulling it off alongside a questionable shiny silver, blue puffy jacket in the opening scene. Buffy gets a lot of great looks in this episode, her orange halter top, when she goes to the Bronze with her many, many, many necklaces, some of which my mom definitely owned, because my mom is very cool. And some less exciting outfits like the weird brown tunic top that she's wearing towards the end of the episode. But overall it's just a really good episode for fashion. Everyone gets some highlights. We're seeing some Anya. People are getting to know each other and Willow stays the night. And you know why she did. That's right. It's that zigzag part.
NOTES: [Christmas music plays]
Kate: Remember be especially nice to retail workers and people in food services this holiday season. And with that in mind, I'll see you at the mall.
NOTES: [Fashion Watch outro theme plays] That was our friend Kate She gave you the Buffy fashion update!
Jenny: Well!
Kristin: Oh, thank you, Kate. Thank you for that. Thank you for agreeing to our spanking transition. We love you.
Jenny: So Spike found a place.
Kristin: Spike found a place, kind of - also, Jenny, do vampires fucking sleep or not? I just feel like we're getting mixed messages about this. They seem to sleep -
Jenny: I think it's like - so Spike seems to indulge in human vice. He smokes, he drinks, he sleeps. But I think he also has no conscience, right? And then you have somebody like Angel who seems to actually spend all of his time conscious, brooding, never indulging in any vice of any kind.
Kristin: Right, so you think they can elect to do human type things if they want to, but they don't have to for survival?
Jenny: That's the impression that I get. Also, is anybody really going to be able to sleep laying on a bare stone tomb? Covered in what looks like a drop cloth from a recent painting site.
Kristin: Well he needs to keep many drop cloths on hand for all of his fucking rendezvous in the sun.
Jenny: Sure. That's true. That's true. He does require a lot of fabric coverings.
Kristin: This scene is wonderful because a couple of our favorite lovers are back together again. The odd couple -
Jenny: Sniping at each other. Hot.
Kristin: [Imitates Spike] "Needs a woman's touch, care to have a crack on it?" Now to that Spike, I'll give you a patriarchy jingle. But before I do that, I will say that I laughed mostly because of Giles' response. Now jingle please.
NOTES: [THE PATRIARCHY jingle plays] The patriarchy! [thunder clap, evil laughter]
Kristin: While the patriarchy jingle was blaring in all of our ears, Jenny was like, "what was Giles's response?" And it was just that his face - he was upset with Spike, but he was also like, "oh, this again" you know what I mean? He misses Spike and you know what, Spike fucking misses -
Jenny: Well, Ethan just left town so Giles is once again lonely.
Kristin: Craving the touch of an English bloke.
Jenny: An English… Companion. But Spike's not having it. He's like, "our business is done now that I have your $300, I don't want to hear from you, see you, nothing, leave me alone, don't need you. Fuck you dad."
Kristin: Yeah. And Giles is kind of hurt by this. Giles has a couple of points that he makes before he gets tossed out, which is like, "maybe there's a higher purpose" and he gets totally railroaded by Spike.
Jenny: [Laughs] Railroaded by Spike…
Kristin: [Laughs]
Jenny: Even if there wasn't a higher purpose he's appealing also just to the fact that Spike likes to destroy things and he could be destroying things as part of a team.
Kristin: Right, it's very sweet. And he also makes another point, Giles does, about Spike's choice to stay in Sunnydale. Now Spike says later on in the episode like, "I'm staying here until they fix me", right? But I just feel like -
Jenny: He just likes hanging around with the gang.
Kristin: He does! It's like his little family is here even though he hates them.
Jenny: Also, so what's the deal? They're not going to kill Spike because he's harmless/charming/hot. But they are going to let him, you know, sort of move in the general direction of trying to get fixed?
Kristin: Yeah, it's very -
Jenny: All rules are suspended when it comes to Spike because he's hot and funny.
Kristin: I fall victim to that rule suspension all the time. So Giles leaves Spike's crypt and we go to The Initiative where two things happen as we roll into this theme. One is that the dialogue is written, of course so that we think they're talking about doing it, right? "Are you ready?"
Jenny: [Prolonged groaning]
Kristin: Jenny, since this is an audio-based endeavour…
Jenny: I hate it. Sorry. I just hate it. I don't like this. Enough!
Kristin: Okay. What don't you like? Let me pause my train of thought so that we can discuss why you made that noise for so long.
Jenny: I'm sorry. I just don't like how they're like, "get it, like sex?"
Kristin: Yeah, it's very over the top. It's very over the head and the first turn of the scene where she hasn't gotten her retinal scan yet, is really over the head. And then once they get into The Initiative, it continues with, "you told me it was big, but you never told me it was huge" and Riley says, "I don't like to brag". And we're like, we get it!
Jenny: Yes, penis, vagina -
Both: Eurgh.
Kristin: But the other lol moment is this massive deal they make of her seeing The Initiative.
Jenny: This is Sarah Michelle Geller's finest and most demanding performance to date. She pretends to find The Initiative impressive. Once again, for those of you just joining us, The Initiative is like an airplane hanger with a pit dug out and filled up with tinfoil - filled up with Reynolds, like an aluminum tinfoil.
Kristin: The good kind, the kind that's expensive.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: But like thick foil.
Jenny: Yes. Yes. And there's like 3 or 4 tables that demon bodies are - why?! Why?! It's not sterile! They're doing all kinds of stuff down there, right? All kinds of procedures, we assume. Assumably if they're doing behavior modification, this is like surgery sensitive, you don't want airborne bacteria or germs or whatever getting into the mix. They're just "it's fine, we'll just cut them all open down here in this tinfoil-lined pit. The tinfoil just makes everything fine" and it's so stupid, I hate it so much. [Shouts] I hate The Initiative!
Kristin: Jenny's really upset. Yeah, I think most of us are with you.
Jenny: And Sarah Michelle Gellar won an Emmy for this episode, as we all know, for doing such a great job.
Kristin: That's a lie, but she should have.
Jenny: For pretending that this is impressive because it is not and I hate it. Also, the elevator never drops off where they got off.
Kristin: Oh, it drops off at a different place?
Jenny: That's right.
Kristin: Oh yeah, it drops off at the top and they always are at the bottom, like, i drops off at the top of the stairs. [Gasps]
Jenny: How dare?!
Kristin: How dare you?! You thought you could pull one over on us? Not today, whoever wrote this, somebody, I wasn't -
Jenny: David Fury?
Kristin: Oh, was it David Fury?
Jenny: Also -
Kristin: Oh -
Jenny: Sorry.
Kristin: Please continue, no, no, no. Please, please keep talking. [Laughs]
Jenny: Oh my god. Sorry. I just realized the note that I have following Sarah Michelle Gellar's acting or whatever was, "well, look at all this foil."
Kristin: [Laughs] So Riley and Buffy are still in the throws of [imitates being sexual] "uh, this is where you work. Uh, you're such a hot GI Joe. Uh, you're such a hot chosen one, Uh" and they start to kiss and then Walsh, beginning what will be her journey into continually loving to watch Buffy and Riley do sexual things together, rounds the bend and is like, "hello. Hello, why don't you stop doing that?" And then of course she's so - she's in such a good mood by the fact that she's gotten to witness this, but she makes a very rare joke.
NOTES: [Clip from episode plays]
Professor Walsh: Your visitor's pass and I have assembled some reading material to bring you up to speed.
Buffy: Oh, I thought I was never going to get homework from you again.
Professor Walsh: You can't take that home. That's classified material. Highly sensitive. When you're through reading those pages, you'll have to eat them.
Kristin: To which Riley's like, "she's joking" and she is so pleased with herself, she's like "I do".
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah. She jokes so infrequently that her jokes are completely indiscernible from the rest of everything else that she says. Also, she's gesturing to the tinfoil pit. She's like, "we call this the pit" Really?! Where'd you get that name? Wow. What a cool name! This is a serious ass government operation.
Kristin: So we see all the weapons. We see this new com cam, which Riley's so - [sarcastically] thank you so much for explaining to us that com cam means communications camera, Riley!
Jenny: Listen, there's a lot of fast-paced, short-syllabled military lingo flying around down in the pit.
Kristin: Buffy gets a pager, which will be very, very important. This is the first pager she's had, which means that we certainly haven't heard one of the most infamous lines of the whole series yet, right? "If the apocalypse comes, beep me"?
Jenny: Doesn't that happen in season one?
Kristin: Oh yeah, but she doesn't have a fucking pager.
Jenny: What the fuck?!
Kristin: Okay. Backtracking. Cause I saw this and I was like, oh, I guess that line hasn't happened yet. I just feel like it's happened and it happened so long ago. But yeah, she said she's been meaning to get one of these. So, joke was on us in season one had we needed her.
Jenny: Or at least on Giles.
Kristin: Yeah, so -
Jenny: Also in this scene, in the pit, on the monster tables, there are a couple of like Cthulu looking swamp things and Dr Engelmann is working on them and -
Kristin: Fuck Dr Engelmann.
Jenny: And Walsh says forebodingly, "soon enough they'll be under our control."
Both: [Laughs]
Jenny: Then she goes on about how Dr Engelmann is a leading dude in xenomorphic behavior modification.
Kristin: He's the fucking worst. I wish Adam had skewered him, I'll tell you that.
Jenny: That would have been nice.
Kristin: Right? Professor Walsh's monotone is very, very intense. And this episode, and I - my theory is that the direction was to be as monotonous as possible so that when we get to the end where she's screaming after Riley, it's like a complete turn, right? Because for the first bit of the episode, I'm like, we get it, but you could inflect a little bit.
Jenny: Right right.
Kristin: Anyhow, let's please get to the next scene. Let's please leave the pit so we can get to, "I've been trying to find a doll's-eye crystal my entire life."
NOTES: [Clip from episode plays]
Willow: I've been trying to find a doll's-eye crystal my entire life. Well, since June anyway. Where did you get it?
Tara: It was my grandmas, I think. I found it a long time ago in my attic. I want you to have it.
Willow: Oh, no, Tara! That's really sweet, I can't, it's like a family heirloom.
Kristin: Listen, everybody. I have a lot to say about this fucking scene. I titled this commentary "LESBIANS". Capital L, capital E, capital - you get it.
Jenny: All the letters are capital.
Kristin: All the letters are capital. Tara's like, fucking, "here's this goddamn -
Jenny: Priceless.
Kristin: Priceless -
Jenny: Incredibly rare.
Kristin: - family heirloom, my grandmother gave it to me, but I have met -
Jenny: [Shouts] I just met you.
Kristin: - I have met you and I will give it to you. I will give it to you because I am a lesbian. A lesbian witch." Now listen, I know whatever -
Jenny: What kind of family heirlooms have you given away to someone you just met?
Kristin: Feelings are feelings. Listen, Jenny, I don't know if you know this about me, but I happen to give advice to a lot of tiny queer people for a decade of my life and I can tell you that among other things, I had an email - I think we might've even talked about it on the podcast before - I had an email written to me from somebody who said, "I have been dating my girlfriend for one month and I would like to commemorate this occasion by giving her a dove" [shouts] a live dove bird, a dove bird. She wanted to give her girlfriend a bird.
Jenny: We did talk about this, and a live creature is one thing, but a family heirloom is a different thing.
Kristin: This is just - it's feelings. And listen, everyone has feelings, obviously, not just queer women have feelings, but I just feel like this is some gay shit right here, you know?
Jenny: It's very gay shit.
Kristin: Fucking gay shit is happening. I need to get - and Willow to her credit is like, "whoa, whoa, whoa, hold the fucking phone." [Laughs]
Jenny: [Laughs] [imitates Willow] "Let's just press pause here for one second."
Kristin: She's like, "I haven't even explored how I feel about lady crystals, so just give me a second." Tara is like, even right out of the gate before she invites her, immediately - also, that's the other thing, right? So Tara is super sad that Willow doesn't take the crystal, but she's like, "it's fine, it's fine" you can see her -
Jenny: But also, yeah, she's bummed, but Willow is like, "well let's do spells with it together."
Kristin: And Tara's like, "how about tonight?" Tara, I love you, but just fucking calm -
Jenny: [Laughs] Play it cool! Just be cool for once!
Kristin: Just be cool, be cool. She can't be cool at all. And Willow, heartbreaker Willow, is like, "I have plans and I don't think that this particular crowd of people…" She's really -
Jenny: She have to say it like that.
Kristin: She didn't have to say that. She could've just said, "I have plans tonight."
Jenny: [Imitates Willow] "But how about tomorrow?"
Kristin: [Imitates Willow] "But how about tomorrow?" But I think she felt - I mean this person who' she's getting very close to, they've removed petals from a rose and they've moved a vending machine, Jenny.
Jenny: Those are two big steps in any relationship.
Kristin: Yeah. They're moving pretty quickly along the common trajectory for relationships. And I think she felt that Tara was wondering why she wasn't invited, you know? Like why she couldn't come along, so she had to justify it. But yeah, the way she says it is crappy. And also there's a lot going on for Willow here and we see more of it as - we saw some of it last episode and we're going to see more of it in this episode where she's not willing to talk about Tara at all, which is because -
Jenny: Willing is not the word I would use.
Kristin: Able, she's not able to talk about it 'cause she's really confused about whatever is happening and she knows - it's like that thing where you know that it's more than a friendship but you haven't ever had it before. So you just keep thinking it's a friend. You had experiences like this, right? Where you're like, this is a friend, it's a friend, it's a friend, it's a friend.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah yeah.
Kristin: And then you know it's not, but you're not able to really give it any other meaning apart from, I can't talk about it 'cause I think it's more than that but I don't know what that means. And this is where our sweet, sweet Willow is.
Jenny: Have I had that?
Kristin: I mean, I dunno, the first girl that you ever were with - were you just like, "yep gay!" [Laughs] or was it more of a question?
Jenny: Errr, yeah. No, I guess it was more of a question also there was like no talking about it because she had a boyfriend. [Mischievous giggle]
Kristin: Yeah. [Laughs] oh boy. But yeah, I mean, and when I was - well before I was out, I came out at 17 and when I was like 12 I had experiences where I knew that my feelings were intense, but I didn't know why, they weren't sexual feelings, even. They were just really intense like, "please have this family heirloom crystal." But I couldn't quite put my finger on it. No weird Freudian and pun intended. [Laughs] Okay, so why don't we go to the room 314.
Jenny: [Shouts] Well, well, well. 314. Oh my fucking god, Adam. This is a mess. The metal plate on the side of his head, that for no good reason, he has the exact same bone structure in his face on one side as the other, but half of the skin is either necrotized or demonic or whatever.
Kristin: Necrotized. Does that mean like deaded?
Jenny: Yeah. I hope I'm nailing that. It's just diagonally split across his - this is really, really bad.
Kristin: Well the thing is, they're trying to give a nod to Frankenstein, of course. But it's just so unrealistic because we're in this high-tech tinfoil lab [laughs] and they just like - they definitely could have taken the head of a monster, you know?
Jenny: Right, or the head of a dude.
Kristin: Any singular head.
Jenny: Where did this human body come from?
Kristin: Oh shit. Good question. Where did this human body come from? We pause the episode to take a minute. We're like fucking - we need detective Angel.
NOTES: [DETECTIVE ANGEL jingle plays] Detective Angel!
Kristin: Any chance to get a little bit of that detective Angel jingle. Anyway, yeah, we don't know. Thoughts? Great. Email us at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com. So also before we go to the next scene, this is the first time that we have this mommy baby situation of Adam and Maggie. She says "our baby." "How's our baby?" And of course later, and we'll get there -
Jenny: No, shush.
Kristin: Okay. We'll get there. I'm sorry, but we will eventually have to get there. But before we do that and before we go to The Bronze, I just want to say that in this scene, apart from having the reveal of Adam, we hear for the first time she's an unnecessary risk, right? This is when we're like, uh oh, Walsh might be coming after Buffy.
Jenny: Yeah. I mean, the whole premise that a secret government organization would be like, "oh, let's just start - let's just bring her in" is it's [groans with frustration]
Kristin: Yeah, yeah I know. We're all here. We're all here with you.
Jenny: Anything goes when you're down in the pit.
Kristin: [Laughs] So we go to The Bronze. The Bronze is looking different to me. Just actually the set and I don't know why. I didn't do enough research to figure out what about it, but it seems like they're at their common table, but it's in a different place. It's like there's no stairs.
Jenny: You have something, Jenny?
Kristin: I do have something. I recently received some DMs from a fantastic songwriter, musician named Mitski, who is - maybe you've heard about - I'm sure lots of our listeners are really into her music. She's so great. She DM'd me a week or two ago out of nowhere, apropos of nothing and was just like, "has there ever been a front of house at The Bronze?" Front of house is the person who is in charge of sound for bands. They sit at the mixing desks and make sure the room sounds good. If it's the kind of club where the front of house person is also runningmonitors, then they have a monitor board for anything. She continued: "genuinely asking. I never noticed any. Also, have you thought about how it would actually suck to play at The Bronze because you're playing to the hall of people but also the cafe and the shop but also the bar. Also it's always open, so does that mean you soundcheck while people are there hanging out? I know this is a lot. This is just what I've been thinking about today."
Kristin: Wow. Thank you, Mitski, new friend of the pod.
Jenny: Yeah, deeply important questions somebody was finally brave enough to ask.
Kristin: Well, add to that list, is this a different set? Because I don't see the staircase I normally see. Normally that table a-butts the dance floor and it doesn't here. So either they're sitting -
Jenny: A-butts!
Kristin: Yeah, you're right, I said a-butts. Either they're sitting at a different table or this is - they just didn't use the same set. I dunno. Talk amongst yourselves. Anyway, we're at The Bronze, Buffy is not fucking here, Willow and Xander and Anya are talking about how she's late and then she brings the whole flipping Initiative with her.
Jenny: Right and I've been trying to figure out which popular 90s young person's clothing store at the mall, The Initiative boys most look like they are dressed from and I think that I landed on Aeropostale with a close second of The Gap.
Kristin: No, Aeropostale.
Jenny: Forrest's hooded sweater.
Kristin: Aeropostale, also Hollister could be in the running.
Jenny: No, Hollister is like surfy.
Kristin: Yeah, but they have - alright, I'll give you Aeropostale.
Jenny: Thank you.
Kristin: You're welcome. [Laughs] So Buffy arrives. Now, I don't know that what Buffy has done here is necessarily - it's hard to -
Jenny: It feels like pretty crappy to me. She's been blowing off her friends to spend time with her new boyfriend and his weird secret ops government group. And then they're finally going to have a night together and she's like, "oops, just accidentally brought 5 fucking dudes. Not just my boyfriend, but 4 other people."
Kristin: That's the thing is like -
Jenny: Also the fact that no one's hitting on Willow is insane.
Kristin: Oh, well I don't think they really get the chance. I mean, I feel like this all -
Jenny: What, they all have to go get drinks?
Kristin: Yeah, that's true. So Anya runs away scared because of The Initiative dudes, which is super valid. And then there's this moment, which we kind of already touched on where Willow calls Buffy out and is like, "you know, I could've fucking brought somebody and I didn't. Andlike it's not cool that you did this" which I really am here for this. I'm here for strong Willow being like, "hey, this hurts my feelings."
Jenny: And I'm here for Buffy being like, "oh wow, I fucked up."
Kristin: Yes. She acknowledges it.
Jenny: [Imitates Buffy] "Who were you going to bring?!"
Kristin: [Laughs] Right. And then Willow is like, "errrr no, nobody, nobody, nobody -
Jenny: [Imitates chainsaw]
Kristin: - no boys, not one boy. There's no boys in my life. I don't know what you're talking about. Boys, boys, boys, boys love buys." And Willow is just astutely asserting here that things are moving too fast as well with The Initiative and Buffy, and makes a really clear distinction cause Buffy's immediately like, "but I thought you liked Riley" and Willow's like, "no" -
Jenny: I mean, I don't feel like she said it like that.
Kristin: I'm sorry, I'm annoyed with - I'm ultimately annoyed with Buffy in this scene. I was coming out saying like, you know, when she first walked in, I wasn't sure, but what I was leaning toward was - but then she pisses me the fuck off. She's pretty self-absorbed and not a new character trait for our Buffter, but in this scene in particular, in this episode in particular, I'm kind of okay, we get it, you're falling in love and like -
Jenny: Well, she's falling in love, but it's also resources. Also one of the, you know, main dating difficulties Buffy has is that she either meets someone at work and that's complicated because they're not a regular guy, or she meets them one at school and they are all too regular guy.
Kristin: Don't say his name don't even say his name.
Jenny: But Riley is kind of this interesting mix. So I think it makes sense for Buffy to be extra pumped and extra caught up.
Kristin: Yeah. But I just think she could do better. I think she could've done better.
Jenny: Well, I think we could all do better.
Kristin: Okay. You're just going to defend anyone I get mad at for the whole season.
Jenny: Somebody's gotta do it!
Kristin: [Laughs]
Jenny: But sometimes I get mad at Riley when you're not so, I mean.
Kristin: That's true. So anyway, Willow's worried, Buffy's like, "it's fine" and then every literal - literally every pager goes off all at the same time.
Jenny: Wait, but first. Sorry, I think it's important that Willow's like "what's their agenda?" And then she goes on this thing that kind of hints that the idea of restorative justice -
Kristin: Yes. Are they going to catch and release?
Jenny: Like rehabilitating, right. Turning monsters into not monsters, or are they just killing them, experimenting on them, using them, whatever. Okay, yes, then every pager goes off.
Kristin: And then it's like pager Christmas.
Jenny: [Imitates pager going off] Beep, beep, beep, beep.And then the grossest thing ever that has happened up to this minute marker is Riley says "mother wants us."
Kristin: [Gasps] He does?!
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: I did not hear it!
Jenny: Yes. So gross.
Kristin: I'm so upset. I'll never watch this episode ever again so that I never have to risk hearing it. So then, of course, we get this pan through of the army, which the - this pan is very reminiscent of the pan that we saw in Hero in Angel, if you're watching Angel with us, when he's sort of infiltrated the demon army. Instead, now Buffy has infiltrated The Initiative army and stands out like a sore thumb in a tank top, you know -
Jenny: She's patrolled in this halter many times.
Kristin: Yeah. And this is - we sort of got a little bit of this when you were talking about what Willow was asking. This is the real divide between The Initiative mind and the Scooby mind is we ask questions, always we ask questions and we're seeing here, of course, that no one does. And Riley and Buffy get into this later too of like, "I trained not to ask questions" so they're all dumbfounded by her being like, "what does it want? Why do we need to not harm the thing? I need to know these answers because my fucking life is on the line and these are important questions." And they're like, "oh, I'm scared" and they don't answer anything basically and turn the corner. Meanwhile, I was going to say, if you don't have anything else in this scene, Jenny, the one thing I do want to say is the transparency layover work in this scene is really quite - we've come a long way from Hush. It is a beautiful rendering of the monster And then Dr…
Jenny: Engelman?
Kristin: Fuck yourself…
Jenny: Polgara demon?
Kristin: Yeah, sure. He lays over on top of the one transparency, another transparency that gives it it's weapon. It was very satisfying. Now we may proceed.
Jenny: So Willow suddenly doesn't have plans anymore so she goes by Tara's place and she's like, knock knock.
Kristin: Just ran right to Tara's.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah. And she's like, "well, do you still want to hang out?" And [sighs] Tara's smile is very sweet.
Kristin: It really is. She's very sweet. She's very excited. And then I guess they just do magic all night long.
Jenny: Yeah, I guess they just do spells.
Kristin: Just some spells all night long. Some really long spells.
Jenny: Yeah because Willow never makes it home.
Kristin: Literally comes home the next day.
Jenny: Because she was doing so much magic.
Kristin: Yeah. You know how it is, ladies gotta magic.
Jenny: Yeah, late into the wee hours of the morn.
NOTES: [Ad music begins] [Ad segment]
Jenny: Support from today's episode comes from Hello Fresh. Let Hello Fresh takethe guesswork out of meals week after week. With 3 plans to choose from: classic, veggie and family, Hello Fresh's meal kits make dinner easy. No more having to plan, spend money on takeout or worry about gathering ingredients week after week. Get that time back to do more of what you love like patrolling the cemetery, again! Hello Fresh's easy to follow recipes and pre-measured, responsibly obtained ingredients are all delivered right to your door in recyclable, insulated packaging and all for less than $10 per serving, with free shipping. And don't worry, you won't spend all night in the kitchen because recipes only take around 30 minutes to make. It's so easy to manage, you can choose your delivery date to match your ever-changing schedule and even pause deliveries when you're on vacation. If you've been listening to the show for a while, you've heard me and Kristin talk about Hello Fresh and how much we've enjoyed using it. It's so simple, the recipes are delicious and fun and always changing so you'll never get bored. For a total of $60 off, that's $20 off your first 3 boxes, visit hellofresh.com/buffering60 and enter code 'Buffering60'. It's like receiving 6 meals free when you go to hellofresh.com/buffering60 and enter code 'Buffering60'.
Kristin: Today's episode was also brought to you by Away. This holiday season, Away has the perfect gift for everyone on your list [whispers] including you! Away has considered all types of travellers in making their carry-on bags, which are available in two sizes and come with an optional, ejectable battery that charges your phone up to 5 times. Plus, they feature 4 360 degree spinner wheels, a removable, washable laundry tag, a TSA approved combination lock and an interior compression system that lets you pack more. Shop the Away carry-ons in Away's signature German polycarbonate or aluminum alloy, both are guaranteed for life. Plus, if I do say so myself, they look really cool. I have two Away suitcases, both the carry-on and the larger suitcase for when I'm travelling for a long time, like right now I am recording this ad in London, with both of my Away suitcases sitting behind me. I love them, I love that the carry on has the phone charger because I always forget them. Plus, in London I forgot my convertor, so it was amazing that I hate that battery pack because it kept my phone alive for a lot longer. They are really easy to roll around, even in the city when I'm walking around New York City with them, they're really really easy to bring with me, they never hiccup over the sidewalk cracks. I just love them so so much. And you too can enjoy your Away suitcase or suitcases, you know, you can be like me and just buy a whole line of them. You can get $20 off a suitcase right now by visiting awaytravel.com/buffy, just use the promo code 'Buffy' at checkout. That's awaytravel.com/buffy and use promo code 'Buffy' during checkout for $20 off a suitcase, because this season everyone wants to get away.
Jenny: Support for today's episode also comes from RXBAR. RXBAR is a wholefood protein bar that actually tastes delicious. You'd like recognise RXBAR on the shelf, they're the ones who label the core ingredients on the front of the package. With 14 delicious flavor varieties as well as seasonal flavours, whether you like sweet or savory, chocolate or fruit, there's definitely an RXBAR for you. Plus, there are no artificial colors, artificial flavours, preservatives or fillers. Throw it in your bag for a snack if you're headed to the UC Sunnydale library for a long night of studying or witchcraft, or if you've got the overnight shift at your secret government underground lab that does experiments on monsters. You can also grab a packet of RX Nut Butter which contains 9 grams of high quality protein. You can spread on fruit, rice cakes, pretzels or eat straight out of the pouch. Oh my god, I love RXBARs, I was introduced to them when they started advertising for the podcast, but I eat them every week. They're delicious, they're so convenient, I am always on the go in Los Angeles or when I'm travelling and they're a life-saver. They're delicious, they're filling, they're so great and there's no garbage in them. It rocks. For 25% off your first order of the best seller variety pack, visit rxbar.com/buffy and enter promo code 'Buffy' at checkout. That's rxbar.com/, and use promo code 'Buffy' for 25% off your first order of the best seller variety pack. Valid in the US only and for a limited time.
NOTES: [Ad music fades out] [Episode resumes]
Kristin: So of course while they do magic, we cut back into the woods or apparently in my notes I've called it the field. Anytime they're doing things I've called it the field in my notes. And Buffy is just chatting, chatting, chatting, and Riley has to be like, "listen, not all of us can talk in our tube tops while we patrol, I need to concentrate" cut to sulky -
Jenny: Wait, wait, wait, before we go there, they have this exchange about how he's like, "yes, no, she likes you, she liked you before I did." Classic misstep! Which sails pass Buffy for a second. But then she ultimately comes back to it and its like, "What? What do you mean?" And this is where Marc Blucas is just filling time. He reacts to it like 5 times in a row where he's like "ah… Umm… Errr". It goes on forever!
Kristin: They really stretched this one out. Then we cut to sulky, sulky Forrest: "I've always been Riley's second in command and now he picks a girl." Oh buddy. You gotta find a new boyfriend, you know? It's okay.
Jenny: I love how into it Graham is.
Kristin: Oh my god, Graham is so stoked. Graham is like, "yeahhhhh". I really feel like I like Graham.
Jenny: He just seems like a supportive friend.
Kristin: Yeah, he's just laid back, here to do what he's here to do. Never gets in anybody's fucking way. I like Graham. I never realised how much I liked Graham until this viewing. I'm here for Graham. So for those of you who say I never like any of the men, you were mistaken, you were mythtaken!
Jenny: Well who knows what he's going to do in the future.
Kristin: Yeah who knows, but for right now I'm a Graham fan. So The Initiative, of course, spies Spike.
Jenny: On his way home from the grocery store or the gas station and the butcher.
Kristin: Yeah. We find out later he's gotten smokes and blood just in a brown paper sack.
Jenny: The essentials.
Kristin: Right. And they taze him - or they not taze him - they tag him, rather with a tracker. He runs off and then we move - before we find out what happens with that tracker and that vampire - we move into a beautiful, [laughs] [high-pitched] a beautiful montage of Riley and Buffy fighting and fucking.
Jenny: [Groans] Oh god.
Kristin: It really is adding insult to injury here because this is the scene we wanted with Buffy and Faith. It's the scene we longed for.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Two people working in the same field, getting riled up at work and then taking it home.
Kristin: Yes, yes, yes. And we didn't, of course, we never got this. And now we get the scene and it's with fucking Riley. And not only is it with Riley, but even if you like Riley, which one of us here does, this is a really silly scene. [Laughs]
Jenny: Here's the deal, here's the deal, here's the deal.
Kristin: I'm gonna let you say it 'cause I can't even.
Jenny: So Sarah Michelle Gellar, we all know, is like sex on a stick.
Kristin: Wow. Excuse us.
Jenny: Look at her go!. She can make anything look hot. But she has been handed - you know that I love Marc Blucas, you know that I appreciate a hunk but he is like a big wet lasagna noodle. He is - they have no chemistry - okay, that fucking scene where his arms are out like he's on the cross. And she's kissing him down the center of his torso. [Laughs]
Kristin: [Laughs] Jenny, wait. I really feel like we need to take a minute with some of the scene breakaways to the fucking - the fighting is whatever. But there are a few. There is that scene. He is - his arms are splayed, he's looking dead ahead into nothingness and she's kissing down his pecks. He looks so upset. There's that scene. Then there's a scene of just him taking off one of her boots. [Shouts] Her boots! Her motherfucking boots!
Jenny: What is that?!
Kristin: I would like to hear from anyone in this room - in this room?! - in this listenership. Have you ever sexily taken off a shoe? Does that - has that ever happened to anyone?
Jenny: I don't know that it's possible.
Kristin: Now, a tall boot, a tall, sexy boot, a zipped up boot to the thigh, perhaps I will leave room for -
Jenny: Or a high heel.
Kristin: But a fucking Aldo, ankle length, leather -
Jenny: Stylish yet sensible patrol boot. Absolutely not.
Kristin: Come on! I think she would have taken off her own boots.
Jenny: What are we doing here?
Kristin: And then - I think there was one sexy thing, but it came after so many non-sexy things that my brain didn't have time to fully adjust. Because then there's this very quick cut of her - I think they're like almost Dirty Dancing standing, you know? Where he's behind her and she's facing forward and she leans -
Jenny: Back and they're kissing kind of over her shoulder and stuff.
Kristin: And the kiss is horrible.
Jenny: Terrible!
Kristin: It's terrible!
Jenny: Their mouths do not belong together.
Kristin: No and you can tell later when they're in bed after the fact that Sarah Michelle Gellar is really doing a lot of work to make this look good. She really is - Marc, blessed Marc -
Jenny: When I said that she is sex on a sick, I mean that she is incredibly gifted at selling things being hot.
Kristin: Totally. The thing that I was surprised to see in this montage, besides the fucking boot, was her sucking on his finger. Wow!
Jenny: [Laughs] The opposite end of the spectrum. They were like, "we need something to balance out the boot!"
Kristin: [Laughs] Seriously. I really feel the director was like, "listen, we got nothing. Suck his finger. Just fucking please."
Jenny: Truly.
Kristin: So anyway, they do it.
Jenny: Oh my god. And then when he is like over her, she looks great on the pillow. He looks like - I don't even know. I love him, he is a wonderful hunk -
Kristin: It's rough, it's rough. You know where he looks a lot better? Is when he's on the bottom. When Buffy is topping Riley, that's the one moment I was like yes! Now we're in, now we're in.
Jenny: Yeah and he's looking up at her with the awe appropriate for the scenario.
Kristin: Yes, yes, agree, agree. So the other part of this scene, of course, that cannot escape mention is that as they're fucking Walsh is fucking rubbing one out in her office, watching!!!
Jenny: [Shouts and laughs] Oh god!!! Okay, that is so much worse than what you could have - that was bad. I am really bummed.
Kristin: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I know, I didn't think I was going to say that. Should I take it out?
Jenny: Also, the fact that she's still watching at the end.
Kristin: That's what I'm saying, Jenny!
Jenny: She saw the same shit we did! And she's still watching! [Laughs]
Kristin: [Laughs] She was like, "yeah, take that boot off. Take the other boot off."
Jenny: [Imitates Professor Walsh] "No, no, no. Leave one boot on."
Kristin: [Laughs] Oh my god, I'm sweating. I've worked myself up to an actual - it was not a good day for a turtleneck sweater. I am wearing in honor of Riley a turtleneck sweater while taping this. Okay. I'm really, really sorry that I said rubbing one out. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I didn't want to say it, I wish I had never said it. I can't take it back now. It'll be too hard to edit. It's too late.
Jenny: Wow, just as long as you feel bad about what you've done.
Kristin: I felt horrible before it even left my - like I couldn't stop it. It was just happening. I got so worked up by the sex montage that it just [sighs] it happened. Anyway, we go to Giles's house and guess who's back? Your favorite character! The little match girl is back for you, Jenny. [Laughs]
Jenny: [Laughs] Ah, yes. And en-tarped Spike comes busting through the door, which is never locked.
Kristin: And we get this amazing back and forth between him and Giles where he's like, "why should I help you?" And Spike's like, '"cause it's what you do, you help people." And then, of course, gets Spike to the end where he's like, "yo bro, you made me pay you."
Jenny: Yeah, Giles gets that rebate.
Kristin: Yeah. So Giles gets like 8 crumpled dollar bills back from his 300 and they begin work on taking the tracker out of Spike's back, which really is a pointless scene, a situation, for every reason except for getting to see James Marsters' beautiful shoulders.
Jenny: Right. And love getting to see Spike kind of drunk. Also, I dunno, it just seems like that tracker is just like - it just looks like a long skinny thing. I don't understand why it was actually hard to get out.
Kristin: Yeah, they really - you wanna know what I don't understand, Jenny, is why did we have to call Willow over to ionize the room? Is it just for the joke? Is it they were just dying to have everyone's hair stand on end?
Jenny: Well the purpose of it was that the -
Kristin: No I mean I know, to block the guys, but it just - this episode didn't have enough material and they were like, "we need more scenes." 'Cause there's just no - I just feel like there's no point to all of this. I mean we get a little bit of enjoyment out of seeing Giles and Spike banter, but this moment when their hair stands on end. I'm like, you guys, you guys. Also the hair people were probably so annoyed, they did all that work for half of one second.
Jenny: Yeah. Okay, but before we get there, Buffy wakes up and Riley is staring at her. [Shouts] Buffy wakes up and Riley is already staring at her! Buffy wakes up and Riley is already staring at her! As someone who slept, or tried to sleep, in a bed last night that was plagued by an enormous cat who just sat really near me and stared at me all fucking night. I'm here to tell you, don't stare at people when they're sleeping. Just don't do it. It's rude. It's off-putting.
Kristin: Sure, but maybe he heard you know, that's the kind of boyfriend she's into. She loves -
Jenny: Oh true!
Kristin: She loves when her boyfriends just brood and stares at her all night.
Jenny: True, true.
Kristin: Also -
Jenny: His vitamin alarm goes off.
Kristin: His vitamin alarm goes off, which is very endearing, even to me. But besides staring at her, which of course I'm not here for, it is nice that she has - Buffy has finally slept with a man who is still in her fucking bed when she wakes up and is still like - you know?
Jenny: Oh yeah.
Kristin: I mean I guess -
Jenny: And she could still remember it.
Kristin: - He who must not be named was still in the bed or came back with coffee or whatever the fuck. But it's just nice, despite what I think about Riley, it's very, very nice that Buffy has a fucking minute here of normalcy. And we know how it rolls for Buffy. She'll only ever get a minute, because then they have this back and forth, which we've talked about already. "I am how they train me" says Riley, "they teach you to follow orders and not ask questions." And this is important. Buffy is really starting to learn a little bit about him and how he functions and what have you. But Riley's also a bit turned around by Buffy because the first thing he does when he gets down to the tinfoil pit is -
Jenny: Looks through the 314 window.
Kristin: Yes. And fucking Walsh immediately is like, "oh what have you been up to? Fucking? Yeah, I watched you and now what are you up to?"
Jenny: Also the second that Buffy says "what's 314?" the phone rings. [Makes famous high pitched noise from Psycho film]
Kristin: Yes. yes, exactly.
Jenny: God, yeah. The only thing less sexy than the chemistry between Buffy and Riley, or lack thereof, is Professor Walsh watching them.
Kristin: Yeah, it's pretty rough. It's pretty rough. It makes a person say all sorts of horrible things they wish they could have never said.
Jenny: [Laughs]
Kristin: Anyway, beautiful Spike arms in the next little cutaway. Then, of course, we already discussed, Willow has been out all night -
Jenny: [Shouts] Out all night!
Kristin: Buffy and Willow both have this like -
Jenny: "Oh, where were you last night?"
Kristin: "Oh, well, hmmm." Giles then, you know, calls for Willow because they need to extend this fucking episode for us 'cause you just can't get to the end of it. And Walsh sends Buffy to the sewers and the rest of the team elsewhere because, of course -
Jenny: With a $20,000 prototype.
Kristin: Yeah, she doesn't give a fuck. She just wants to this girl dead.
Jenny: Well I think she wants confirmation that she's dead.
Kristin: Right. And here's -
Jenny: "Danger's my birthright", Buffy says.
Kristin: Here's my question about this whole fucking thing, right. You've already marked your distaste with the fact that they've put two demons against her when they already saw what she could do. But my question is because they didn't just put two demons against her, they gave her this device that would confirm when her heart stopped. So she didn't only have to kill the two demons she had to - I think her move is what she did here, is she killed one, put the - no? Were you shaking your head at me?
Jenny: I think she just took it off, 'cause it's on the ground.
Kristin: Oh. And that's all you needed to do with that device?
Jenny: I think there's a massive design flaw because otherwise how would it monitor your heart rate if it's not making contact with you?
Kristin: Right. Well see that that's why I thought wow, did she kill one, pop the thing on it as it died, so it was still on a living but a dead being.
Jenny: Oh, interesting. Who even knows if those things have heartbeats or if their hearts beat at the rate of a human or they have more than one heart?
Kristin: Right? Thank you, those were all of my questions, just the whole -
Jenny: I was under the impression that she just took it off, but I guess it does slow down, doesn't it?
Kristin: It does, it slows all the way down to nothing.
Jenny: Maybe because it's a prototype, there's a delay in maintaining the signal.
Kristin: Maybe, but maybe just write this episode better.
Jenny: [Sings] Write this episode better!
Kristin: So she, of course, kicks the ass of these demons very easily and fools everybody. And what's crazy, you know, Jenny, is that when I watched this scene, where Riley comes in, and we'll talk about it obviously, but I until this watch had it in my mind that she could also see them. That Buffy knew what was going on because it's at such a perfect time, you know, it's right when Riley's finding out so that he gets to see that Walsh is a liar, but she doesn't know any of that. She can't see anything that's going on.
Jenny: And Walsh is like, "Riley, something terrible has happened. Buffy's dead." And then Buffy picks up the comm cam and she's like, "bitch you thought I was dead?! I'm not dead, you're going to be dead!" And then Riley's like, "fuck you mom."
Kristin: Yeah, this is really rough. And we're going to really explore more of this in the next episode.
Jenny: Oh are we?!
Kristin: I mean, I don't think that's a spoiler. I mean, we know that the blow that Riley has been dealt, whatever your feelings are for Riley, my heart fucking breaks for him in this moment because this is the moment -
Jenny: His mom tried to kill his girlfriend.
Kristin: Well and he thought the world was good and he thought that he could trust -
Jenny: Yeah, that he was doing good.
Kristin: He thought he could - it makes me honestly want to cry, I just got very emotional [acts choked up]. But he thought he could trust the orders he was following, he thought he could trust the people in charge and he can't and he couldn't and they were bad and that is really, really fucking sad. And he's also gone through this pretty traumatic thing of thinking that this girl that he's falling in love with is dead and then she's fucking popped up on the TV screen. Like, "actually no, your fucking work mom tried to kill me."
Jenny: Yeah, but you know what? Some people in the world still care about other people in the world. Giles is like, "Spike, it's not safe for you to stay in Sunnydale. Spike -
Kristin: [Imitates Giles] "One last kiss before you go?" [Laughs]
Jenny: [Imitates Spike] "Your wellbeing is paramount to me."
Kristin: [Laughs] Yes. Right. The tracer's out of Spike, but he's going to stay because he quote "wants to get fixed."
Jenny: Because he feels like it.
Kristin: Sure, sure buddy. We know that move. He's gonna stay 'cause he loves the Scoobies - just admit it already. This is the moment, of course, also that I was talking about with Walsh where Riley walks out and - this is massive - and everyone in The Initiative is watching it and they realize how massive it is too because Riley is the right hand, you know? He does fucking everything she says and she is blood curdling screaming and she's first like "Riley, Riley" and then she's like, Agent Finn, I demand that you stop" trying orders, trying anything and he doesn't fucking stop.
Jenny: Sorry no, the progression -
Kristin: Oh, the progression is the reverse?
Jenny: Yes, it's "Agent Finn, Agent Finn, I order you to stop"… "Riley"
Kristin: And he does not stop. He does not look back and good 'cause he fucking shouldn't 'cause she's a fucking crazy killer. And that's very sad, we'll get more of that I'm sure. And then we, of course, get this beautiful love scene between a monster and his creator.
Jenny: [Groans]
Kristin: Walsh is like, "I'm not going to let this little bitch -
Jenny: Yeah. She's like, "finally some meaty dialogue for me to sink my teeth into. I'm going to give this whole monologue about my motives and where I'm headed next and then I'm going to get impaled and die."
Kristin: Yeah. And this is a pretty intense scene and we actually - with any luck, we'll have an interview for you with Lindsay Crouse who plays Maggie Walsh. We had intended to put it in this episode but had to reschedule. So we're hoping to have that in the next episode because um… yeah, there's a lot going on here. And it's also a really interesting turn. I just feel like Professor Walsh was kind of a critical piece of The Initiative. Why was the decision made to kill her off when they killed her? You know what I mean? It seems very sudden. So we'll get the chance to talk to her and ask her about what the tinfoil pit was like. Hopefully, hopefully fingers crossed. And if we do get the chance to do that it'll be in the next episode.
Jenny: Also, now I'm [sighs] - I've got big questions. Do you think that in the year 2000 this set looked impressive?
Kristin: No.
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: No, I don't think it was ever impressive. I don't think in 1950 it would have looked impressive. Maybe a little more 'cause it would've been black and white. I don't know if that timeline checks out for lack and white, but you know what I mean.
Jenny: I think color TV was like the 60s, no?
Kristin: Yeah, I think so. So Adam, of course, impales Walsh and as he's dropping her to the floor she says, "Adam" and he says, [does impression of Adam] "mommy". [Laughs]
Jenny: Noooooo.
Kristin: So to help us out of that horrific, horrific thing, let's end this with some Sexual Tension Awards, Jenny!
Jenny: Yes! let's do it.
NOTES: [SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays] Sexual tension award!
Jenny: Well, yes indeed, of course, this episode's Sexual Tension Award nominees. It was hard to narrow down from all the contenders in this episode, but we did it. Here are your choices. First up, we've got [Laughs] -
Kristin: You can do it. You can do it, Jenny.
Jenny: I'm trying to think of something, some alliterative way to describe two English men. It's Spike and Giles!
Both: [Laughs]
Jenny: And then of course we've got the on again, off again, GI Joe and GI Joseph couple, Forrest and Riley. We've got, [imitates Tara] "let me give you a family heirloom that is priceless and rare, even though we just met a few weeks ago." [Imitates Willow] "Let's cast some spells with it all night." Willow and Tara! Kristin Yeah!
Jenny: And then… Guys, friends, who deserves this win more than Willow and spanking!
Kristin: Yeah, it's true.
Jenny: If you care about what I want, please vote Willow and spanking or follow your heart. Vote via our Twitter poll. You can follow us @bufferingcast and cast your vote there.
Kristin: Yes. And I'm going to tell you who won last episode. Now, we're headed to London, so I have to make this call before the poll officially closes, but I'm pretty sure it's going to be accurate. Coming in last place with 1% of the vote is Buffy and Riley. I do want to mention that somebody tweeted at us to say, "oh my god, I accidentally folded for Buffy and Riley, I didn't mean it", so I think that's the 1%. Sorry guys. In third place we have Spike and demon Giles, 18%. In second place, We have Willow and Tara with the rose, 22%. And taking this one, of course they did, is Ethan and Giles gathering 59% of the vote and all of our fanfiction stories from here until the end of time. Congratulations Ethan and Giles, your trophies are in the mail. [SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays] Sexual tension award!
Jenny: Well, do we finally get to stop talking about this episode now?
Kristin: Oh my god, Jenny, we do, we really do!
Jenny: So many things I'm anxious to never relive happened in this episode and therefore it is with great joy and a song in my heart that I tell you I am Jenny Owen Youngs and when I'm not making this podcast, I am writing and recording songs. You can learn more about me and hear some of those songs at jennyowenyoungs.com/buffering and you can give me a shout on Twitter @jennyowenyoungs.
Kristin: Yes. And I'm Kristin Russo. You can find everything you need to know about me, the work that I do with LGBTQ young people and their families by going over to my website, kristinnoeline.com. That's K-R-I-S-T-I-N-N-O-E-L-I-N-E, you can use that spelling to also follow me on Twitter and on Instagram. And I will let you know, which I also let you know at the top of this week's episode, that I have a new tiny little store. It's called Gay Stuff by Kristin. Yeah, my 'queer and forever here' shirt is in there and new colors, I have a little enamel pin, I have a safe space sticker, there's some signed copies of the book I wrote, This Is A Book For Parents Of Gay Kids, and you can now find all of that also on my website, kristinnoeline.com. Just click on 'shop' and it'll take you to the little store.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: Fun, right?
Jenny: Very fun.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Congratulations.
Kristin: Thank you so much.
Jenny: Buffering The Vampire Slayer is on Twitter, Instagram and Facebook @bufferingcast and you can always email us at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin: Also, the time is now to order holiday things from our store. If you want to get your loved one 'smash the demon lizard patriarchy' stuff we have 'smash the demon lizard patriarchy' children's t-shirts.
Jenny: Hooray!
Kristin: Because all of those older than 24 months and younger than adult-sized clothing have been furious with us because they couldn't fit this on their little bodies. So now we have something for them too. Get all of that, get your socks, get your records, before it is holiday time. And last but not least, of course, if you would take the time out to rate and review us on iTunes, that would be wonderful. The other day I had a conversation with somebody, they said, "what do you do?" I told him about my podcast, they looked it up and they were like, "5 stars and over a thousand reviews?!" And I was like, dang, you made me look really legitimate in the eyes of this person. So thank you. And the more the merrier over there. And don't forget about Angel On Top, go and rate and review them too.
Jenny: Yes, please do. And till next time…
Both: Awooooo! [Jenny performing "The I In Team" off the album "Songs from Season Four" by Buffering the Vampire Slayer] Professor Walsh, hey don't you reckon If I could neutralize all your best guys in 28 seconds Maybe I'm not just the Slayer you're stuck with Maybe I'm the Slayer that you shouldn't fuck with Come on I thought it'd be fun to join the army Or to be more specific, let the army join me Go to work with my boyfriend, what could the harm be? But I was mythtaken, unfortunately Cause Maggie, you're an evil *ahem* Professor Walsh, I'm feeling insulted You think 2 Cthulhu Swamp Monster Dudes are worthy opponents? (For me?!) Honey I'm not just the Slayer you're stuck with Believe me I'm the Slayer that you shouldn't fuck with For sure I thought it'd be fun to join the army Or to be more specific, let the army join me Go to work with my boyfriend, what could the harm be? But I was mythtaken, unfortunately Cause Maggie, you're an evil Bitch monster of death Bitch monster of death Bitch monster of death Bitch monster of death I thought it'd be fun to join the army But I was mythtaken, unfortunately Cause Maggie, you're an evil Bitch monster of death Bitch monster of death Bitch monster of death Bitch monster of death
Kristin: Support from this episode came from Poshmark. This holiday season, instead of standing in line for hours, head to Poshmark. The easiest way to buy and sell fashion items. Find all of your favourite brands like Nike, Lululemon and more for up to 70% off, all from the comfort of your own home. Today you can get $5 off your first purchase when you enter the invite code 'Slayer5' when you sign up. Download the Poshmark app, sign up and enter the code 'Slayer5'.