Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 2.08: The Dark Age
Jenny: Hey, everybody! Before we get started today, we just wanted to alert you to an upcoming streaming event.
Kristin: Yes, on Friday, March 10, the 20th anniversary of the airing of the first episode of the first season of Buffy the Vampire Slayer on the WB, we, Jenny Owen Youngs and myself, Kristin Russo, will be doing a live Buffy-watch of Season 1, Episode 1, "Welcome to the Hellmouth."
Jenny: Hooray!
Kristin: Yes, at 5 pm Pacific, 8 pm Eastern so that we're lined up exactly the moment that it happened. Who knows what will become of this?
Jenny: What spirits may be invoked.
Kristin: Right? Seriously. Very serious stuff. It's totally free, it is on Facebook. Our Facebook page is facebook.com/bufferingcast. All you need is access to the episode. We will see you there. We will count down, we will all press play together and you know, have a blast.
Jenny: It's gonna be so fun.
Kristin: It's gonna be the best.
Jenny: See you there.
NOTES: [THEME SONG]
Jenny: Hello and welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast where we're watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, one by one. I am Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: And I am Kristin Russo, and this week we're talking about Season 2, Episode 8, "The Dark Age." Stay tuned at the end of this podcast every week for an original song, written by us, recapping the Buffy episode we are discussing.
Jenny: "The Dark Age" was written by Dean Batali and Rob Des Hotel, or possibly "Day" Hotel, and directed by Bruce Seth Green. It originally aired on November 10, 1997. Do you think we'll ever know how Rob's name is properly pronounced?
Kristin: I bet you there's a way to find out. I think.
Jenny: Probably somebody listening knows.
Kristin: Yeah, I think there's a way. So you let us know -
Jenny: Please.
Kristin: What are the two options? "Day" -?
Jenny: Rob "Dez" Hotel or Rob "Day" Hotel?
Kristin: I'm gonna go with "Day" Hotel. My money's on "Day" Hotel. What about you?
Jenny: I like "Dez". Like, it's short for Desi, which is short for something even longer. Desmond! There we go.
Kristin: So your guess is Desmond Hotel, is the actual last name of this person.
Jenny: Yes! And a place I'd like to live.
Kristin: This is the one where Giles' past comes back to haunt him as a demon he and Ethan Rayne summoned sexily in their wild youth, seeks them out in Sunnydale.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: That's the IMDB description, except for one - one word that I added.
Jenny: I wonder which word you added!
Kristin: Yeah, it was just Sunnydale! It didn't say Sunnydale.
Jenny: Ah hah!
Kristin: Yeah. So - yeah. No.
Jenny: Nice edit!
Kristin: I mean, I think we all know where the Sexual Tension Award is going this week!
Jenny: [sings] Yes!
Kristin: Is it inappropriate to just jump right out of the gate with Sexual Tension?
Jenny: Just start with STA? Let's go for it. It's obviously Ethan Rayne and Giles.
Kristin: Oh my God!
Jenny: Get a room to conduct your demonic possession rituals.
Kristin: You know, I thought that we were being like, a little silly the first time? Like I didn't, 'cause I really did sense sexual tension, but I thought like, we were laying it on a little thicker than it was actually there? I take it all - I take all of those thoughts back.
Jenny: It's there. It's real.
Kristin: This is overt.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: This is an overt - like, I'm not even kidding you, you're looking at me like I'm saying a funny joke.
Jenny: No, I'm not! I'm with you!
Kristin: Their character relationship is 100% at least that Ethan Rayne had a huge crush on Giles when they were younger.
Jenny: I'm with you! I am 100% on board for the implications of some kind of Giles-Ethan Rayne youthful entanglement.
Kristin: Right? Come on! Give us the goods!
Jenny: Bisexual Giles? Feeling it.
Kristin: Right? Come on! I don't know, my whole - do you want to know the story that I made up?
Jenny: Please.
Kristin: Is that, so, Giles and Ethan, super tight. Giles, straight. Ethan, bi, gay, what have you. Attracted to, you know, maybe just a Giles… Giles… sexual.
Jenny: Giles-sexual? Sure, sure.
Kristin: Yes, a Giles-sexual. But Ethan has a crush on Giles. They pass out and possess themselves with this demon, 'cause he does say "they discovered -" What is this demon's name?
Jenny: Eyghon, of course!
Kristin: Eyghon, of course. That they discovered him together. It sounded to me like they discovered it, the two of them, before they brought it to the group?
Jenny: Sexily!
Kristin: Sexily! And then I think that what happens here is that Giles turns Ethan down. Like, I think that Giles won't go the rest of the way. Right? He's like - as sexy as Giles will get is possession. [laughs]
Jenny: Got it.
Kristin: That's about as sexy as Giles will get with Ethan. And Ethan is upset. And it starts to form the core piece of Ethan that will, you know, tie Buffy to a ta - you know, these things that Ethan will do -
Jenny: Wow, this is quite a tale!
Kristin: I'm convinced! I'm not even - I will hear no other stories. This is the one for me. This is the truth.
Jenny: All right! Well, it's good to know where you stand.
Kristin: That's where I stand! Anyway, congratulations to the earliest-winning sexual tension award couple.
Jenny: Yes! Pick up your trophy at the front desk as soon as the episode's over.
Kristin: Giles and Ethan Rayne. Great. So, yes, go ahead, Jenny.
Jenny: Guy! With briefcase! On high school campus! At night! Also, who's that hipster janitor with the mutton chops?
Kristin: Right? I love the janitor. The janitor does a great job. We are not talking to the janitor in this episode, but we are going to get some time with Stuart McLean, who played Phillip Henry in this episode.
Jenny: Woo!
Kristin: And whose face, if you watch the DVDs, is the only face that shows in the, like, holding screen before you hit "play."
Jenny: Oh yeah, the still image of him with his reanimated, open eyes, alit with the light of Eyghon the demon. Woo!
Kristin: Yeah. And we're very excited that Stuart was able to spend some time with us, so in a little while, we'll share with you part of that interview. And I do want to just say, I don't think we've talked about the DVD menu.
Jenny: We haven't talked about it one time?
Kristin: I don't think so. We've talked about it to each other.
Jenny: Yo. If you're not watching the DVDs, particularly for Season 2, you're missing out on something very special that was popular in the early 2000s, which is a CGI, complicated video progression that leads you from the main menu to the episode-specific menu. There's like this music that's like, [sings fast-paced, descending tune].
Kristin: And then like, "clunk!" And then like, doors open! And it's like [creaking noise] -
Jenny: And you like, glide through the cemetery, past this tomb and that tomb, and like, through the legs of the female angel statue, I think? And then you come to rest, framed on an antique lock that looks like only a skeleton key would fit in it, and then the episode title comes into focus from a cloud of magical mist. [Kristin laughs] It's really something!
Kristin: It's really special.
Jenny: I wonder if they're like, on YouTube. If anybody's taken the time to -
Kristin: Well, you know, there's a lot of rumors a-flying about Netflix and their possession - speaking of possessions - of Buffy the Vampire Slayer because we have heard many a tweet telling us that people who have watched it on Netflix are seeing that it is leaving and there's a panic. There is a panic! A scramble for the DVDs that are expensive, 'cause there's a limited - I don't even know. It's just a whole thing.
Jenny: Well, I bet they're gonna do some kind of special box for the 20th anniversary.
Kristin: Yes, exactly.
Jenny: Guess how many copies of the entire series of Buffy the Vampire Slayer on DVD we're gonna have after that comes out?
Kristin: Are we gonna have two?
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Wow, wow. So, you know, the library -
Jenny: Some things in life are more important… than other things in life.
Kristin: Okay. The library of Jenny and Kristin will be able to loan out our first set -
Jenny: [yells] No!
Kristin: Okay.
Jenny: No! That will become -
Kristin: That is selfish!
Jenny: A vintage relic that we must protect!
Kristin: Oh boy. Okay, so anyhow, are you gonna be alright? Are you going to make it?
Jenny: I'm gonna make it!
Kristin: Somebody suggested to us on Twitter that if you can acquire a DVD player, you might be able to go to your local library and rent the DVDs, so that you can watch them if you are sad about -
Jenny: If the scads of other -
Kristin: I'm not convinced it's gonna go. I'm not -
Jenny: Buffering the Vampire Slayer listeners haven't already taken it out from the library.
Kristin: Right, you gotta get there now, run!
Jenny: Don't walk.
Kristin: Just pause the episode. Go get the DVD!
Jenny: Go! Shoo!
Kristin: [laughs] What was I gonna say? Oh, I'm not convinced that it's gonna go away.
Jenny: Yeah, we'll see.
Kristin: We'll see what happens.
Jenny: Yeah, that might just be the - when the option is up, and then -
Kristin: And they might be toying with our emotions, they might be saying, "Well, we heard about this new podcast that's making everybody rewatch Buffy the Vampire Slayer." It has nothing to do with the 20th anniversary.
Jenny: Right, I remember the point in The X-Files Files when this happened with The X-Files, which ended up -
Kristin: Oh, really?
Jenny: Getting picked up again and remaining on Netflix. So hopefully everything will just remain as it is.
Kristin: Okay! See, we have a lot of evidence that says we might still keep it there. But anyway -
Jenny: [loudly] Anyway!
Kristin: What's in the briefcase, Phillip?
Jenny: We'll never know.
Kristin: Like, what the fuck is in that briefcase?
Jenny: What even happens to that briefcase? We'll never know!
Kristin: Right? Because the police officer, later, she's like, "He had one piece of paper."
Jenny: "All he had -"
Kristin: No, he had a briefcase! It was silver, and it seemed like it had an arsenal inside of it.
Jenny: Yeah, that's peculiar.
Kristin: Peculiar. I think the cops are in on it. Cops are in on Eyghon.
Jenny: Sounds like a thing.
Kristin: I don't know.
Jenny: So, he's running away, we assume either from Diedre or from impending doom that he just senses.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And he finds a door labeled, "Classroom-slash-library."
Kristin: [laughs] I love the person in the props department that was like, "Meh, eh, that'll do. That's good enough."
Jenny: Yeah. And he's all, bang-bang-bang-bang-bang, and he sees Diedre, who moves at the speed of a zombie -
Kristin: And yet has somehow gotten across the Atlantic Ocean.
Jenny: [whines] I wanna know! I want to know!
Kristin: Right? How did that happen? Actually, someone tweeted that at us, and it made me think, "You're right, tweeter!"
Jenny: It's a great question.
Kristin: Great question!
Jenny: So many great questions. That's one of them.
Kristin: How did this person -? If you ever want to tweet us questions -
Jenny: Maybe she immediately, like, before the decomp really kicked in - or maybe she just, like, hid in the belly of the plane or something.
Kristin: Oh, like it happened on the boat? Why did I think she took a boat?
Jenny: Maybe she took a boat? No, 'cause decomp - boats aren't that fast, so.
Kristin: Right, 'cause she would - yeah, but - [sighs]
Jenny: And she got all the way to California.
Kristin: See? Yet another episode, yet another backstory episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, the story of Diedre. [Jenny laughs] The fuck? The fuck happened to Diedre? How'd she get over there? Did she follow him? Was she in the underbelly of the plane? Like, what's happening? I need to know!
Jenny: Right, right. So Phillip Henry's banging on that classroom-slash-library door, but Buffy and Giles don't hear him because Buffy is aerobicizing!
Kristin: Oh! If you are a child of the 90s, you know that every person in your entire orbit had one of those fucking aerobicise steps. The steppers! The little steppers with the rubber -
Jenny: A little stip-step, mm-hmm.
Kristin: Wrapped in a little bit of ridged rubber so that you won't lose your aerobicise footing.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And she's going for it. I was so excited about this scene 'cause it - I forgot all about, like, the rage of aerobicizing.
Jenny: Right, that was a real thing.
Kristin: People were so - imagine like, that be - it's like, "You know what? We have a great invention."
Jenny: "It's a step."
Kristin: "It is a step that is one inch off the ground. [both laugh] And you just put it in your house, and then you pop the aerobicise DVD in, and then off to town you go!"
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: And I love that Buffy was doing this because I do have to say that I remember aerobicizing in the nineties, I remember my parents, my friends' parents - it was a mom thing. I didn't participate in aerobicizing, did you?
Jenny: [laughs] [sarcastically] Please.
Kristin: No aerobicizing?
Jenny: Uh, no.
Kristin: I know that you have quite a DVD collection of exercise materials, Jenny, so…
Jenny: Um, [pause] those did not exist in my life in the 90s -
Kristin: Okay.
Jenny: And none of them are aerobicization-based.
Kristin: Okay! Well, no shame to those who aerobicized, though.
Jenny: No! Certainly not.
Kristin: It's just not a Jenny -
Jenny: It's just not on-brand for me.
Kristin: It's not. Also, Giles has this great line during the aerobicizing scene. I mean, Giles just has a great everything during the aerobicizing scene, but he says - you know, he's like, complaining about the music and he can't hear anything and he doesn't know that what he can't - he actually never knows that what he didn't hear was Stuart being… possessed?
Jenny: Right, even the police, they're not like, "He died right outside of your door."
Kristin: [laughing] "He was found outside your door!" Yeah, like, what the fuck, guys? But he ends his thought, Giles does, by saying, you know, "This music, you just keep doing what you're doing while my brain dribbles out of my ear." And I thought that was a nice little seed planted by the writing room.
Jenny: Right, right, because just before or just after that, we see Diedre turn into blue goo.
Kristin: Just after that, because I have written after the quote, "Blue gooooooooo!" I wrote it twice 'cause we will see it again. And as - and we will get to Stuart's interview, but we do hear him talk a little bit about this scene and the detail that went into getting that blue goo to line up with him and Diedre. So that's fun.
Jenny: [suggestively] Then Giles has a dream! [Kristin laughs] Giles has several dreams over the course of this episode.
Kristin: Are you into those dreams, Jenny?
Jenny: They're great! I mean, you talked while we were watching it about how many scenes were, like, easily matched up to various Freddy Krueger scenes? And there's something about the quality of those dreams that reminds me, just of the sort of like, that genre? Like, I feel like those -
Kristin: Oh, interesting. Yeah, the dream sequences didn't remind me of that series, but certainly dreams, I mean.
Jenny: Well, sure, sure, sure. But just like, general horror movies made for teenagers, that's exactly the sort of -
Kristin: Yeah, the quick cuts, and the, like, crossfades.
Jenny: And the like, sort of, warped look of the images and…
Kristin: Yeah, and this is the first moment that we see the inside of Giles' house.
Jenny: [sings] Ba-dah!
Kristin: Giles is in bed!
Jenny: He wakes up in a bed!
Kristin: He wakes up in a bed that is Giles' bed! Giles got a bed this episode. Giles also got a living room and a desk and a kitchen!
Jenny: Later, he sleeps on the floor, inexplicably.
Kristin: A rug! He has some rugs! He has a door!
Jenny: Yeah, no green mug yet.
Kristin: No fucking green mug, we're still waiting on the green mug.
Jenny: But it could appear at any moment.
Kristin: But yeah, Giles gets a whole situation, a whole thing. Congratulations, Giles. Happy to see where you live. And then right after Giles' spoo-oo-ky dream, we cut to [laughs] Buffy and Willow playing this game of "I'd rather be anywhere but here." And I bring it up mostly for two reasons. One, because Gavin Rossdale gets a mention!
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: Seems like Buffy and I have the same taste in men.
Jenny: Oh, boy. Does anybody not have Gavin-Rossdale-in-1997 taste in men?
Kristin: I don't know, good question. Nobody in this room, apparently.
Jenny: Mm-hmm.
Kristin: Buffy likes Gavin Rossdale. Willow probably likes Gavin Rossdale. The other part of this is that Xander strolls up… drinking a juice box.
Jenny: Ohhh, wow.
Kristin: This is a thing. They drink juice boxes. This is not the first juice box we've seen. And I want to know if you drank juice boxes in high school.
Jenny: I sure can't remember drinking a juice box in high school.
Kristin: Right? I can't either, but it made me remember that when I was in high school, I ate baby food.
Jenny: Ew.
Kristin: I ate baby food, I thought it was -
Jenny: I mean, no offense to babies, but like -
Kristin: I thought it was the coolest thing. It was like, the applesauce baby food, you know, it was like, the fruit stuff. But I would, like, bring my lunch box and it would have baby food, and I loved it.
Jenny: You are the weirdest -
Kristin: I would sit - so, actually, funnily enough, one of my very favorite high school teachers, Mr. Heitkamp, listens to our show -
Jenny: Mr. Heitkamp!
Kristin: Mr. Heitkamp! And we saw Mr. Heitkamp last we were in upstate New York, and it is in - my biggest baby-food-eating memories take place in Mr. Heitkamp's classroom because he had a special - you know, probably a lot of you had this cool teacher who had a couch in his classroom, where you could hang out with your friends and just be yourselves.
Jenny: Mm-hmm.
Kristin: [laughs] And that's what Mr. Heitkamp had, he had a couch in the back of his room, and so instead of eating lunch in the lunchroom, a lot of us artsy kids would gather in Mr. Heitkamp's room and sort of like, hang out on the couches in the little nook area.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: And I would eat my baby food [laughing] because I was cool! I shopped at Hot Topic, had baby food, had some fangs, and I went to the Salvation Army a lot.
Jenny: Wow. Oh boy.
Kristin: Get over it.
Jenny: Yeah, good thing you had fangs to help you cut through that baby food.
Kristin: [laughs] Good one, Jenny.
Jenny: So, anyway!
Kristin: So anyway. Oh, another important part of this is that this moment between Buffy and Willow and Xander, they're discussing Giles, and Giles and his past.
Jenny: Right, and how uptight he must have always been since the dawn of time.
Kristin: Yes, so uptight, his diapers were probably made of tweed.
Jenny: And speaking of tweed, now is a great time for us to introduce our favorite and only Buffy Fashion Watch correspondent, Kate Leth.
NOTES: [Buffy Fashion Watch intro jingle plays] It's time for our friend Kate To give you the Buffy fashion update.
Kate: Welcome back to Buffy Fashion Watch. I've returned to my tiny corner of the podcast. This episode has a couple of really great looks, notably Willow's hair is getting cuter and more stylized by degrees, and her clothing is getting greener by verdigris. But this is a Giles episode, and even though I rarely talk about the men's outfits in this show, Giles' hotness should be addressed, specifically his suits. Now, Buffy opens this episode with a crack about Giles being so repressed, his diapers must have been made of tweed. But I think we all know no human being makes a tweed suit work like Anthony Stewart Head. It's interesting. Tweed ends up as a punchline, but it's a pretty incredible and storied fabric. For instance, did you know that, like tartans' or family crests, specific tweed patterns belong to specific families, like, even now? The heavy, woven, woolen fabric was particularly sought-after during a time before indoor heating and was worn during golfing and hunting and other outdoor activities because it stood up to inclement weather. And even the gaudiest patterns kind of blend in with nature, it's a weird camouflage.
NOTES: [laughs] Now, tweed is a word with several possible origins, including the mistyping of the word "twill," which is a way that fabric is put together, and a river of the same name. But it's divided up into many different types. Some are named for the kinds of sheep used for the wool, some for their regions of origin, and then they also have styles on top of it, which you can also see in fabrics other than tweed. My personal favorite styles - Giles wears both of these at different points in time - are herringbone, which has opposing diagonal columns and is named for its resemblance to the bones of a fish, and houndstooth, which is named for its jagged diagonal points, which resemble the back teeth of hunting dogs. Both of which, when you break them down, are like, pretty goth. I'm sorry, guys. I've got a need for tweed! Did that make you groan? I'm really sorry, let's take a moment and step back to when Jenny Calendar was teasing Giles about making him squirm? I still think about that on at least a weekly basis. Whoo boy. Until next time, I'll see you at the mall.
NOTES: [Buffy Fashion Watch outro jingle plays] That was our friend Kate She gave you the Buffy fashion update.
Kristin: Thank you, Kate. Holy shit. That is definitely one of my favorite ones of all time! We learned so much about tweed!
Jenny: Yes, thank you.
Kristin: So much about tweed, I love it! Also, fucking herringbone, and - I just - great job all around. Thank you. Thank you, thank you. You know who I do not want to thank?
Jenny: Who's that?
Kristin: I do not want to thank Jenny Calendar in this episode.
Jenny: No!
Kristin: I do not - I'm not a fan of Jenny Calendar in this episode.
Jenny: It's too much!
Kristin: Right? Like, I know later, I recuse her -
Jenny: Later, there's a demon. In her body.
Kristin: I recuse her later because she's possessed by a demon, but let me tell you what, she's being just as fucking creepy before the demon was in her body.
Jenny: I do really like her, "Oh, I had to dog-ear all the pages -"
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: "And then I had to underline all the passages, and then I spilled coffee all over your book!" as Giles gets more and more stressed out. Because in that scenario, I'm Giles.
Kristin: Right, yes. Of course, and that's a great moment. Great, great moment. And then, Giles has an unfortunate line. [Jenny laughs] "I trust I gave good squirm."
Jenny: Sick!
Kristin: No thank you, take it back! And then they kiss! In school!
Jenny: She has so many creepy lines. You can't kiss in school!
Kristin: No kissing in school!
Jenny: [yelling] The bell already rang, what are you doing?
Kristin: What are you possibly doing? Both of you. Get it together.
Jenny: Too. Sexy.
Kristin: Too sexy for school. T-S-F-S. Too sexy for school. And then, and then. Before they part, Jenny Calendar looks at Giles and says, "I'll see if I can make you squirm."
Jenny: [sings] No!
Kristin: And I want to vomit! On my shoes! I don't like it, I don't like it, I don't like it. It's too much for me, I'm overwhelmed.
Jenny: And let's be clear. Female sexuality? Feelin' it.
Kristin: Totally!
Jenny: So great!
Kristin: Yeah. Not like that!
Jenny: It's just -
Kristin: It's not right! [laughs]
Jenny: Too much! Be cool, Jenny! You clearly have it!
Kristin: And this is - I mean, maybe this is a personal taste, because Kate made mention of, like, sounding maybe a bit kerfluffled by Jenny Calendar, and I couldn't tell if -
Jenny: Different strokes.
Kristin: If she was into it or not into it completely, but to me, I like the guy that looks in the other direction, do you know what I mean?
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: That's sexy to me.
Jenny: Remember when she was disinterested? Mm. That was great.
Kristin: Yeah, got those cigarettes rolled up in your shirt sleeve, standing at the corner -
Jenny: Uh-huh, yeah!
Kristin: Maybe you're into me, maybe you're not? Maybe the dust is blowing in the wind?
Jenny: [laughs] What?
Kristin: I don't know. I think I fell into Dirty Dancing. I said cigarettes in an arm and then I started thinking of Patrick Swayze and there I was, with dust in the wind.
Jenny: Right, right, right, sure.
Kristin: [laughing] Okay, anyway, right, listen, we don't mean to yuck anybody else's yum -
Jenny: Totally, we're just telling you what our yum is not, and it's Jenny Calendar being super aggressive.
Kristin: Very aggressive. I was more afraid of Jenny Calendar in the hallway of the school than I was when she was possessed by the demon. [laughter] Okay, good talk. So then [sings] Cordelia -
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: Cordelia comes in. Cordelia will certainly get her jingle, but not yet. She has a moment when she earns it for me outright, and I will tell you what it is when we get there.
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: But she has a great moment. She comes in, talks to the cops. Wants to get her fucking ticket -
Jenny: While they're interviewing Giles about a homicide, could they take care of this parking ticket she has? Totally bogus.
Kristin: Yes, please? And then she just has this great moment where she's just like, "Why is everyone always screaming my name? I can take a hint. But wait, what's the hint?"
Jenny: [laughs] Really good.
Kristin: Love you. Love you, Cordelia! I don't know if you knew that, but [sings] I love you!
Jenny: Doing great. And then it's off to the morgue to ID a dead body, hooray! I have questions.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Philip Henry's dead body is covered in -
Kristin: Bruises!
Jenny: Purple bruises. And I want to know - I know somebody out there works in a morgue. I wanna know, is that a common post-mortem - is that -?
Kristin: Post-mortem.
Jenny: Am I using "post-mortem" correctly?
Kristin: Yeah, after death.
Jenny: Mmm, wait, isn't "posthum -" Oh boy. Listen, it doesn't matter. After you die, is your body covered in bruises? I need to know.
Kristin: "Jenny Needs to Know." A new segment. [both laugh] "Jenny Needs to Know." Right, and so yeah, he's covered in bruises. Giles IDs his body, right? That's what happens here?
Jenny: Mm-hmm. He says, "Yeah, that's Philip Henry, no, I've never seen that tattoo before."
Kristin: Yeah, said in a way -
Jenny: Detective Detective is like, "Umm… I think you're lying?"
Kristin: [laughing] Is that her name? Detective Detective?
Jenny: It is now.
Kristin: [laughs] By the way, I loved Detective Detective. So much so that I made Jenny look up Detective Detective and who she was. And it turns out that her name is Carlease, spelled like you leased a car. "C-A-R-L-E-A-S-E." Carlease.
Jenny: Yeah, Carlease Burke portraying Detective Winslow, not Detective Detective, as I had hoped.
Kristin: But like, Detective Detective, it's stuck. It's with me. Um, so, right, so Giles is at the morgue. And then we cut to Buffy, 'cause what we haven't talked about yet is that it's blood transfusion night at the hospital, or wherever the fuck - [laughs]
Jenny: "Everybody knows it's delivery night."
Kristin: Everybody knows. So yeah, but Giles is late. And that's like, the big deal. But you wanna know something else I love? Is vampires under cover. [Jenny laughs] I love -
Jenny: [grand, obvious voice] "Hello, just two doctors, ready to accept your blood delivery. Trust us!"
Kristin: [laughing] I just love thinking about them being like, "What do you think a doctor says? I don't know, man, like, blah blah blah." Just like, being really worried that maybe they're gonna fuck it up by not being convincing enough as doctors?
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: But they were convincing enough. I feel like, probably the guy who delivers the blood should probably know by now, like, yeah, Sunnydale seems a little bit privy to the fact that there are vampires and demons around, you'd think that this guy would know.
Jenny: Yeah. Maybe he's just trying to do his job and paid, man.
Kristin: Or maybe it's an inside job.
Jenny: Maybe?
Kristin: Maybe it's a fucking inside job.
Jenny: So they get the cooler of blood. Up pulls the getaway convertible from behind, like, in the shadows by the dumpster. And then one of the fake doc vampires like, bites into a bag and somebody's like, "No sampling the product," introducing what I believe is the first drug reference in the episode, but not the last.
Kristin: Mm-hmm.
Jenny: And so this - I have another question! Or series of questions.
Kristin: Yes! "Jenny Needs to Know."
Jenny: How much blood do vampires need to survive?
Kristin: Does a bloodchuck chuck for -
Jenny: How much blood does a bloodchuck chuck if a bloodchuck does chuck blood? [Kristin laughs] And why do some vampires want to drink donated blood? Is it purified in some way that like -
Kristin: [intrigued] Ohhh! I didn't even think about that.
Jenny: Makes it sort of taste different? Angel's the only vampire I can think of who wouldn't just go out and eat some people.
Kristin: Yeah, and also where does Angel get his blood? Like, he seems like he's - you know what? I bet you Angel is like, "Sure, I'll take care of it," and takes some of the fucking blood! [Jenny laughs] Where else is he getting his blood from? Do we learn - ohhh, I think we do learn later.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Okay, fine.
Jenny: So, moving -
Kristin: Fine, fine, fine. Moving right along.
Jenny: How about Buffy's fighting the vampire, she's up on the hood of the convertible -
Kristin: [into it] Yeah!
Jenny: And then she almost stakes Angel, and then she's like, "Angel!" And all the other vampire that she's fighting politely pause [Kristin laughs] so she can recognize Angel and Angel can recognize her, and then Angel's like, [yells] "Look out!" And then he proceeds to jump on top of the roof of the car, or the hood of the car, I should say. And then leap, like, twenty feet forward to where the imminent threat is -
Kristin: Also -
Jenny: He tackles the vampire that's farthest away from Buffy after yelling "Look out."
Kristin: Also, to end this beautiful tale that you have started, Buffy stakes two vampires. Guess what happens to the one that Angel was in charge of? He gets in the car and he drives away!
Jenny: [laughs] Speaking of inside jobs!
Kristin: The fuck you doing, Angel? You had one vamp to kill! You making a big show. He just wanted to see Buffy, he didn't fucking care.
Jenny: Awww.
Kristin: He just wanted to see Buffy!
Jenny: "Everybody knows it's delivery night."
Kristin: Make eyes at Buffy. So yeah, my note was, "Buffy slays two, Angel zero?" What the fuck.
Jenny: It's a rough score.
Kristin: Um, okay, so Buffy then is like, "I'm concerned about Giles, I gotta go to his house." And we're like, yay, this is the first time Buffy's going to Giles' house.
Jenny: Yo, and guess who looks… like an ashtray.
Kristin: [laughs] The first time we watched this scene, Jenny was like, "Wow, Giles, you really grew that beard quick."
Jenny: Yeah! Giles, lookin' drunk, loose tie, sudden case of beard. [Kristin laughs] Why and how? "Oh, I just drank half a bottle of whiskey, and it made my beard grow"?
Kristin: Yeah, maybe you've never drank half a bottle of whiskey, Jenny.
Jenny: Oh, I have, believe me. I've put in my best efforts.
Kristin: No beard for you.
Jenny: No beard. Yet.
Kristin: But I do want to say that - so Giles is like "Get the fuck out." Giles's whole energy towards Buffy for most of this episode is "go away."
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And that's very upsetting to -
Jenny: Go away, Mom.
Kristin: Yeah, right?
Jenny: Some real role reversal.
Kristin: Yeah, big role reversal in this episode. Ugh, we'll get to that last scene. Don't worry, we'll get there. But Anthony Head's - Anthony Stewart Head's acting is incredible in this little scene where he takes a sip of whiskey. He puts his head in his hand but he does it very quickly and suddenly - it's very powerful.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: His acting and then he goes over to the mirror. [Jenny laughs] Yeah, then your favorite moment.
Jenny: It's a little sillier but -
Kristin: It's a little sillier.
Jenny: But at the desk, like, just after he crosses the name out of his notebook.
Kristin: "Diedre," yeah.
Jenny: Also, his list of names is clearly for us.
Kristin: [laughs] Right.
Jenny: "I've got - there's five of us!" [they both laugh]
Kristin: Giles, he really has to keep track. He's like, "well -"
Jenny: And last names.
Kristin: [laughing] Good call. So then right before the commercial break, if you will, we cut to the morgue where we see…
Jenny: Oh shit, Phillip Henry, reanimated!
Kristin: Re-the fuck-animated with some cat eyes or some shit.
Jenny: [makes a guitar twang sound] That's an eye noise.
Kristin: And I think this is a great - this is probably a great time for us to learn some more about Phillip Henry and the guy behind Phillip Henry, Stuart McLean.
Jenny: Hooray!
NOTES: [Interview intro music plays]
Kristin: So the first thing that we talked to Stuart about was his experience of shooting this episode of Buffy and what it was like for him personally. Here's some of what he had to share with us.
Stuart: This is one of the shoots that I think most fondly of is the Buffy shoot because it did pay an awful lot of money, that was one reason I feel fondly of it. [Kristin and Jenny laugh] But also, it was just such an easy shoot and really actually, even from the point of view of like, not a lot of pressure on me 'cause most of the time, I was a zombie. So I didn't have a lot of lines to learn, you know, or anything like that, it was just kind of like -
Jenny: Right, right.
Stuart: And it was kind of fun. I remember on this shoot at that time, my main drive - my only drive at that time was a 1967 convertible Mustang.
Kristin: Ooooh.
Stuart: And my girlfriend came on the set one time and she took photos of me in full costume and makeup. You know, bits of me rotting off my face and everything, driving my Mustang. So I thought that was -
Jenny: [high-pitched] Oh my god.
Kristin: Wow, wow. You don't happen to still have those photos, do you? Those would be incredible.
Stuart: Probably, yeah, they're around somewhere.
Kristin: Oh well, if you find them, please send them to us. Our listeners would love to see those.
Stuart: Yeah, absolutely, I'll take a look 'cause I'd like to find them. Now that I was thinking about them, I was like, "Oh, I loved that car", you know?
Jenny: Stuart, could you tell us a little about the audition process?
Stuart: It was a studio in Culver City where they shoot the main sets. I went in and they asked me - the director was there. One part of the audition was he wanted to see me, how I would behave as a zombie.
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: [laughs]
Stuart: So I had to do my best zombie walk and zombie look and I think that's what sold them on it, so.
Jenny: You have a very convincing zombie walk, for sure.
Stuart: Oh good, well, thank you very much, yes. I've - and who knew that there would be so many opportunities for it in the future, you know? 'Cause just about every other show these days is a zombie show, so that's really fantastic, you know?
Kristin: [laughs] At least they didn't tell you - at least they didn't ask you to turn into goo. That would have probably been a little bit more difficult for you.
Stuart: Yeah, that was the first and only time I've been killed by turning to blue goo. [laughter] But I have been killed a lot of funny ways, I'll tell you. I got killed once by telepaths on Babylon 5.
Jenny: What?
Stuart: Telepaths killed me by basically throwing things at me through the air, pipes and chairs and such.
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Stuart: So I've been killed a lot of ways you know? [Jenny laughs] That's pretty much my career is getting killed at some point. [They all laugh]
Kristin: We did something fun for this interview. We asked our listeners, that's you, on Facebook and Twitter for questions to ask Stuart and here's what he had to say in response to a couple of those listener questions.
Kristin: So Stuart, on Twitter, Clarissa asks, "how long did it take to do your makeup?"
Stuart: I was in makeup probably - it depends on which day but as they sort of rotted me through, it took a few hours to apply the makeup. And particularly the scene where I was - the morgue scene, 'cause they had to do the full body for that.
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: Right.
Stuart: But that's one of the reasons I got paid so well on this show because I had forced turnarounds all the time because I had to kind of be back at 5 am for makeup. And so you know, if we were shooting in the evening or whatever, then I'd end up having what they call a forced turnaround which is like less than eight hours between - I think it's eight hours -
Kristin: Oh wow.
Stuart: Between sort of leaving the set and having to be back on it. Oh yes and of course we forgot the Mark of Eyghon. The Mark of Eyghon was -
Jenny: Yes.
Stuart: That was another bit of the makeup, wasn't it? I liked that thing. I wanted to actually get it, you know, permanently tattooed onto me, I thought it was pretty cool.
Kristin: But then what if, you know? Like what if that mark actually…
NOTES: [laughing]
Jenny: Invited a demon to occupy you.
Stuart: Yeah, yeah. I didn't do it so…
Jenny: We'll never know.
Kristin: Right, yeah. You can't be too careful about these things. [laughter]
Jenny: We have another question from a listener. Leah on Facebook wantedto know: "what's it like to go onto a show with an established bonded cast in a one-off role where you ultimately, of course, get turned into goo?"
Stuart: Well you know, with the kind of career that I've had, that's pretty much what I'm doing all the time. I'm always - and getting onto a show that's kind of been running for a while. I was on ER for about three seasons, kind of intermittently on ER. I was the X-ray guy on that and you know, it's always - when a show's really cranking along, it's kind of a little bit like jumping onto a moving train, you know? Because people are so good and so adept and so not nervous and all that kind of stuff, because of course, they've been there for weeks and weeks and weeks.
Jenny: Right.
Stuart: And eventually, everyone gets nervous the first time on the set, first time you go on a stage, whatever. There's always a nerve factor. I gotta say, the Buffy gang, it was a really fun gang, you know? And they were very welcoming. Pretty much all shows are very welcoming, the good ones, because everybody's happy to be on 'em and everybody's kind of on a high from creating this thing and Buffy was a really good show. It was just a fun show to shoot and it was fun to be in the company of those people who were kind of like - I think that was the second season. You know, so they were really kind of - they didn't quite know, but it was probably hitting the height of its popularity at that time.
Kristin: Right, right, totally. Do you have any stories in particular that you remember as the stick out story when you were on set in that role?
Stuart: On this show, I gotta say, it was the first time I've ever in a morgue drawer, you know?
Jenny: Oh yeah, that seems…
Kristin: That does not seem fun.
Stuart: That was pretty creepy, I have to say. That was very creepy, just to kind of be slid in and out of that thing over and over again.
Jenny: Oh man.
Stuart: You know, being in the cage thing when I was kind of trapped in the cage. And you know, they're all having a discussion about me while I'm inside that cage kind of growling in the background. [Kristin laughs]
Jenny: Right, right.
Stuart: And of course, the fight scene. The fight scene was quite - you know? Because of course, you're all padded up. You have pads on underneath your clothing and all that kind of stuff.
Jenny: Really?
Stuart: Yeah, because you're doing it over and over again.
Jenny: Right.
Stuart: It's not like it would be so bad to hit the ground once or twice but you know, you're doing it ten, fifteen, twenty times, maybe.
Jenny: Wow.
Stuart: Because they're shooting it from one side, then the other side, and then a little bit of it and a close up here and - the blue goo thing I think they had to - I can't remember how they did that, I'm trying to think. But there was a lot of special photography to kind of set that up. Because when I got touched with her blue goo, we were laying on the ground forever. [They all laugh] Me and Diedre. Me and Diedre were laying on the ground, you know? Remember, this is - you're talking about - you know, there were barely computers then, you know?
Kristin: Right.
Stuart: I think I might have gotten my first cell phone at that point. Yeah, I think I pretty much had my cell phone 'cause I had my cellphone when I got my '67 convertible Mustang so I had the cell phone. [Kristin and Jenny laugh] It was a big brick of a thing, you know what I mean? I remember when I first got it, I was driving up Pacific Coast Highway and I called somebody, it was like - crazily expensive, but I called somebody in Britain 'cause I just wanted to gloat, you know? [they all laugh] And I was like, "yeah, I'm driving my convertible up Pacific Coast Highway, how's it going?"
NOTES: [laughter]
Jenny: Stuart, where can people find you and your work on the internet?
Stuart: Well, on Twitter, I'm at @sirstuartmclean.
Jenny: Great.
Kristin: Perfect.
Stuart: I gave myself a knighthood for that particular…
Jenny: After so many deaths, I think you've earned it.
Kristin: Yeah.
Stuart: Exactly. And also I have a film coming up in April. It's premiering at the Phoenix Film Festival and it's called The Midnighters.
Kristin: The Midnighters, okay. We'll be on the lookout for that.
Jenny: Yeah, that's premiering at the Phoenix Film Festival, you said?
Stuart: The Phoenix Film Festival, I think it airs April 7th, 8th, and 9th.
Jenny: Great.
Kristin: Oh perfect, that'll be soon enough for this.
Stuart: Not airs, screens. Screens at the Festival.
Kristin: Well, thank you so much for taking the time out to talk to us. Our listeners are gonna be so excited to get to hear a little bit of behind the scenes from you and just to get to hear about you in general, so we so appreciate it.
Jenny: Yeah, thank you so much.
Stuart: Wonderful, I'm so glad you helped me relive my Buffy days, it was great.
Kristin: [laughing]
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: [laughing] Of course, any time. We will always help you relive your Buffy days. Thank you.
Stuart: Thank you.
NOTES: [Interview outro music plays]
Kristin: Wow, thank you again to Stuart McLean. That was so wonderful to get the chance to talk to you and we will be posting on our social accounts some of those pictures that Stuart did in fact send to us of him in his zombie makeup in that convertible.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: You know what just occurred to me?
Jenny: What?
Kristin: The vampire was in a convertible and Stuart was on set in a - there were a lot of convertibles.
Jenny: Lot of convertibles.
Kristin: Very Hollywood that day. That day. 'Cause it takes one day to shoot an episode [They both laugh]. I'm really good at TV.
Jenny: Also… I've got one more question! Do morgue people, morgue employees, regularly check - it's like the sheet that's on the back of the bathroom door at the gas station bathroom -
Kristin: Yeah, yeah. 2pm: all the dead people were here.
Jenny: Right, 4pm - and if so, if there is such a checklist and that's common morgue procedure, how frequent is it? And what's the accountability and what's the occurrence of bodies going missing?
Kristin: Can somebody please write my wife -
Jenny: Please!
Kristin: Please write my wife… not to be confused with Cameron and Rhea's…
Jenny: Take My Wife.
Kristin: Television show Take My Wife. Please write my wife and let her know all about her morgue queries.
Jenny: [sighs]
Kristin: Um, so…
Jenny: It's just, I feel like this episode raises more questions than it answers.
Kristin: Would you say it raises morgue questions?
Jenny: [laughing] I would have said that if I thought of it fast enough! Ahh!
Kristin: Great. So then we go to - we've forgotten a very important subplot of this episode, which is that Xander is not -
Jenny: School on Saturday.
Kristin: Yeah, Xander and Cordelia are bad at computers and Willow is good at computers and apparently they're the only three people who have either -
Jenny: Any relationship to computers whatsoever.
Kristin: A proficiency or deficiency in computers.
Jenny: Everybody else is right in the middle.
Kristin: Yep. Everyone else is just average. And so they are in school on a Saturday. Very Breakfast Club. It's a very Breakfast Club episode. So the real reason that I bring that up is because we're in school, it's a Saturday, Cordelia is wearing a shirt that Kate did not mention, so I shall. It is white, it has an off-center, and maybe you'd want to call it an asymmetrical neckline.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: And I'm into it and I'm into you. Still not time for your jingle though, but I'm into you, Cordelia.
Jenny: You know what else this scene gives us? The sentence fragment "My uncle Rory was the stodgiest taxidermist" from Xander and I just want tosay: I love that sentence fragment.
Kristin: Oh yeah, it's good. It's good. Not to bring us right back to Cordelia but she does have a great line when she interjects, after they've all been trying to figure out what's wrong with Giles, to say [Jenny laughs] "No he seemed perfectly normal yesterday when he was talking to the police."
Jenny: "About a homicide."
Kristin: Well, she doesn't say "about a homicide" at first, they have to pull it out of her.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: But you know, she's just - she's just Cordelia, what are you gonna do?
Jenny: She's just being her.
Kristin: So Buffy's like, "yo, Jenny, you're the girlfriend. He won't talk to me. Figure it out." And Jenny is very, like, on their level. Did you have teachers like that, who were like one of the gang?
Jenny: Oh yeah.
Kristin: A little too much part of the gang?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Yeah, me too. [laughs] Jenny Calendar is totally that teacher. Jenny Calendar had that moment with Cordelia, way back when, when they both almost got killed by the mons - the three-headed Slurpee monster at the end of Season 1. [laughter] You know what I mean? Where she was like [imitating Cordelia] "ugh, can you even believe the stains in your clothes?" And Jenny was rolling her eyes, but she's very much on the student level. She's the young hip teacher.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Anyway, I'm going on for too long.
Jenny: Never too long.
Kristin: Buffy goes to the library.
Jenny: And we see a nape of a neck that I'd recognize anywhere! It happens to be attached to none other than Ethan Rayne!
Kristin: Ugh, back in our lives, back in our hearts.
Jenny: In top form! Sassier than he was on Halloween, even.
Kristin: Yeah, yeah. He's getting stronger and stronger. Also, the fucking library is huge!
Jenny: Really big.
Kristin: We saw way more of the library today than we saw -
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Than we have seen. There's a set of double doors -
Jenny: Yeah, we see the back section.
Kristin: He tries to throw a thing on Buffy.
Jenny: Yep, yep, yep.
Kristin: Buffy's like, "quit it". And they have a great - I really love -
Jenny: Yeah, I'd like to see a spinoff series.
Kristin: Right?
Jenny: "Ethan Around." Oh wait, is that the actual name of the "Horsin' Around" spinoff that they try to make in "BoJack Horseman"?
Kristin: Oh, because the guy's name is Ethan?
Jenny: Yeah. Carry on.
Kristin: Yeah. I would also like to see that spinoff. So Ethan Rayne is in the library, oh my god. Buffy grabs him and he's like, "Giles was my friend and I wanted to have sex with him and he turned me down."
Jenny: [laughing] Well, he doesn't say that.
Kristin: He does not say that.
Jenny: It's important to include that he didn't say that.
Kristin: But he did with his eyes.
Jenny: Ooo-kay.
Kristin: Anyway and Buffy calls Giles and is like, "Giles, I've got your buddy here." And Giles is like, "he's very dangerous" as Giles smokes a cigarette and drinks seven different cocktails. [They both laugh] And then they think it's just a trio here, Ethan and Giles and Buffy, but no. In comes zombie-man Phillip Henry.
Jenny: Yes, in busts Phillip through the window. A lot of windows getting decimated in this episode.
Kristin: Yeah. And then in come the Scoobies. It's a whole hullabaloo. Giles -
Jenny: Cordelia kicks Ethan.
Kristin: My favorite. My favorite moment - no sorry, it's not my favorite moment.
Jenny: Second favorite moment.
Kristin: Second favorite moment. Right, Cordelia kicks Ethan - wait, Ethan? Is that who she kicks?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: She kicks Ethan, right. Ugh, another great combo, Cordelia and Ethan.
Jenny: Uh huh.
Kristin: They would - I would love to watch them have a cup of coffee together.
Jenny: Yeah or like, go shopping.
Kristin: Oh yeah, good call. Is that a ster - are you stereotyping Ethan because he's a gay man in my analysis?
Jenny: [laughing] No, I just - he's very - they're both just very forward and I feel like clothes is the department where I've seen Cordelia have the most to say and it just seems natural.
Kristin: Yeah, that's fair. So Giles apparently lives very close to school because Giles is like, "oh no, I hear trouble" and -
Jenny: And then busts in through the library doors minutes later.
Kristin: Busts through the double doors. The other double doors. There's a whole big fight which we heard Stuart talk a little bit about, the fight scene.
Jenny: Right, right. He goes in the cage, he busts out of the cage. Buffy kicks in him the throat or something? And then he falls down and turns into goo but Jenny Calendar's already unconscious…
Kristin: The door knocks Jenny Calendar out, is that what happens? The door hits her? I didn't understand how she got knocked out.
Jenny: Who can keep track?
Kristin: Right? She gets knocked out, Ethan Rayne runs away, Phillip Henry turns to blue goo, the blue goo touches Jenny and then Jenny hugs Giles and then she opens her eyes and she is possessed by the spirit. And only we know that. Yes, Jenny?
Jenny: I was further disturbed by post knockout Jenny being like extreme bedroom Jenny.
Kristin: Mm-hmm.
Jenny: There is no - [stutters] Like way that she says "prom -" [makes grossed out sound].
Kristin: The way that she says what?
Jenny: "Promise?"
Kristin: "Promise"…
Jenny: Where he's like "lean on me" and she's like [sexily] "Mmm, kay." [Kristin laughs] And then he's like, "everything's alright now" and she's like "promise?" And he's like "yeah." Little does he know that that's not something he can promise. And so on.
Kristin: Right. Then we come back…
Jenny: Well, yeah. And Buffy's all like, "WTF is going on?" and Giles is all like, "stay out of it!" and Buffy's all like "Avengers assemble!" and then she's like, "Willow, here's your task" and then she's like, "Xander, here's your task."
Kristin: And then. Here is the moment. [Jenny laughs] And then my sweet Cordelia hops off of her perch and smiles the best smile I've ever seen her do.
Jenny: Oh yeah.
Kristin: To this day. "What about me, Buffy?" [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah, "I'm ready for my assignment. I'm one of the gang."
Kristin: And she says, "what about me? I care about Giles." And I just want to kiss her face, all around her face. Not even in a sexy way, I just want to kiss her all over her face because I love her so much.
Jenny: Oh.
Kristin: You're okay with it.
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: It's great.
Jenny: [laughing] Okay.
Kristin: Cordelia, I love you. Here is your jingle.
NOTES: [Cordelia's jingle plays] Cordelia (ah-ahh) I love you, Cordelia (ah-ahh) You're perfect, Cordelia (ah-ahh)
Jenny: Ah yes. We've said it before and we'll say it again. If you want to wake up to the dulcet tones of me singing about Cordelia, you can go on your iPhone, go into the iTunes store, and search for 'Cordelia' and you'll find it as a ringtone. You're welcome.
Kristin: You will find it there. So now we're at Giles's house, right?
Jenny: Yeah, we're cutting back and forth between Giles's house and the Scoobies doing research.
Kristin: Yeah and at Giles's house, we learn that Eyghon knows how phones work.
Jenny: Oh yeah.
Kristin: Which I thought was interesting that -
Jenny: Well, Eyghon was occupying their bodies, you know, 20 years prior or whatever -
Kristin: And just taking notes? Like, "oh, interesting. This goes here…"
Jenny: Probably, just like the… Inca mummy princess.
Kristin: Right. So, you know, Jenny is, as we know, possessed and the Scoobies are figuring this out. They're slowly putting the pieces together.
Jenny: After they get over the small speed bump of that classic Egyptian-Etruscan mix up, they put it together pretty quick.
Kristin: [laughing] Yeah. How could Willow have been so silly?
Jenny: Ugh, god.
Kristin: Foolish Willow! But this is where we go into Freddy Krueger territory, and hard.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: This was, to date, this episode is a parallel - if I had more time on my hands, I would do a side-by-side comparison of three things. And I'm gonna talk about all three of them now even though they happen as the episode goes on. First of all, right when Jenny - and this is great. Once Jenny starts really speaking as Eyghon, I mean, I guess she's been speaking as Eyghon the whole time. But when it notably shifts is when she stands up and she's like, "oh it's not right, it's not proper, it's just -" and she's mimicking Giles - she's mimicking Ripper, right, of olden days. We learn a little bit that even though Giles was involved in magicks, it sounds like he was still kind of cautious and hesitant. Always his nature. Then Eyghon says, "you're like a woman, Ripper." So I don't know if you know what that is, Jenny, but that is the patriarchy.
Jenny: Oh my god, of course. It is the patriarchy!
Kristin: Could you say it right?
Jenny: [yells] The patriarchy!
Kristin: You have one job with the patriarchy. One job.
Jenny: I know. I just have one job?
Kristin: No, with the patriarchy specifically.
Jenny: Oh, oh, oh.
Kristin: To say it right.
Jenny: Oh.
Kristin: [laughs] And uproot it. That's all.
Jenny: Oh, two jobs.
Kristin: [laughing] Anyway. Then Jenny shifts and it's a closeup on her face and her face - the way that her face is even done is very Freddy Krueger-like and her voice changes and she's like [deep voice] "under your skin."
Jenny: [laughs]
Kristin: And then makes a joke, this is the first Freddy moment. She says [deep voice] "was it good for you?" Makes that silly, sexy joke 'cause that's - Freddy Krueger's entire personality is like those stupid jokes where you're like, "I get it, Freddy, god, just kill me already," you know what I mean? And then, Buffy comes in and is like, "Fuck this noise." I've said "fuck" so many times, I'm sorry for people who listen with their families. I really gotta rein it in. But Ethan Rayne it in.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: Buffy comes in and Jenny leaves and she leaves by jumping through the glass and this is - I swear, I want to find it 'cause it's like a shot by shot from one of the Freddy Kruegers where he jumps through the glass. The last thing is the door shot - this is later and don't worry, we'll come back, but the door shot when we're back at Ethan Rayne's costume shop and it's Buffy and Ethan and the shadow of Jenny Calendar, the way that it's lit behind her…
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: She's very, very tall and long.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: And as she gets to the door, it gets shorter and shorter. That is an iconic, iconic piece of Nightmare on Elm Street for the very first one, there is a scene where his shadow is so long down the alleyway and then he gets closer.
Jenny: Woo!
Kristin: So it is - I was just thrilled by - [Jenny laughs] I was really excited 'cause I mean, I think a lot of the parallels that I've talked about before have been legitimate parallels. But this, I was like, are you kidding me? This is shot for shot here. Really pulled a lot from Nightmare on Elm Street. [singsong] So I'm excited, I always get excited when I talk about Freddy Krueger. Okay!
Jenny: So after Jenny Calendar-slash-Eyghon jumps out the window, Buffy and Giles sit down and they have a chat. And Giles tells Buffy what's going on and why.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: And he describes for her the ritual of passing out and being possessed by a demon that he and his friends used to do.
Kristin: Yes. "Ethan and I discovered it," is what he says.
Jenny: "Ethan and I discovered it."
Kristin: We were making out and then we figured it out and yeah.
Jenny: And he says… that the high was extraordinary. Drugs! Drugs. Did you ever have your friends make you pass out?
Kristin: No but I have friends who - like, I didn't do that, but my best friend before we became best friends had like -
Jenny: A circle of pass-out friends?
Kristin: His previous circle of good friends would always do this. They would make each other pass out. And they actually would tape it 'cause it was the 90s [laughs].
Jenny: Jesus.
Kristin: So everyone had a fucking camcorder. So they would tape it, that was part of it. And it wasn't - saying it now, it sounds like it was sexual. It wasn't at all.
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: It was just like - you know, you don't have access to drugs so here's another fun, insane thing you should never do!
Jenny: [laughing nervously] Don't do that.
Kristin: Please don't do that.
Jenny: No, no, no.
Kristin: No, I never did that.
Jenny: Me neither.
Kristin: But I did know people who did.
Jenny: Same.
Kristin: So be like Jenny and Kristin. Don't make yourself pass out, for god's sake. There's plenty of other things to do in this world.
Jenny: So Giles is pretty stressed out because he doesn't know how to get rid of Eyghon without killing Jenny.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: And Buffy is like "I've got the guys working on it."
Kristin: Ugh. Yeah, and this is just another underline in this role reversal that we talked about, where Giles is a mess. Giles is a hot mess this whole episode for so many reasons and has kept a secret, has tried to push Buffy away. It's all the things Buffy has done to Giles so many times.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And then something I skipped over that of course we're going to come back to is Buffy and Ethan again. And they're planting more seeds for their spinoff show.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: Ethan has this comment to Buffy where she's like, "I'm not gonna run, I'm gonna fight this thing" and Ethan's like, "aren't we manly?" And then Buffy says, "well, one of us is." Which is a zing! 'Cause Buffy's on my page, Buffy's trying to be like, "I know you have a crush on Giles." But in the 90s, the way she said that was by saying "you're not manly" which is rude, Buffy.
Jenny: Really? I thought she was just saying -
Kristin: [quietly] No, she wasn't.
Jenny: One of us is manly 'cause I'm gonna fight this thing and you're just trying to run away.
Kristin: No, she was. I just want to lay everything into my own narrative.
Jenny: Wow, wow! Wow, Kristin.
Kristin: This episode is just Kristin writing fanfiction live on the podcast. [they both laugh] And in my fanfiction, Buffy is homophobic.
Jenny: No!
Kristin: No, no, no. She's not, she's not.
Jenny: It's fine.
Kristin: It's fine. Everything's fine.
Jenny: So what I don't buy is Buffy's spidey sense not going off when Ethan's like, "after you."
Kristin: Yeah, same. She - Buffy trusts Ethan a little too much, a little too quickly.
Jenny: Yeah, that was a little too convenient.
Kristin: But also I think there might be something emotionally going on for her, because Giles has really shut the door, literally and figuratively, on their relationship and she knows that Ethan and Giles were friends.
Jenny: Awww.
Kristin: So I think that that might play into this situation, I really do. So Ethan gives Buffy a tattoo.
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: [laughing] This whole thing is just bananas.
Jenny: Yeah, he gives her a tattoo. Meanwhile, Cordelia and Xander almost come to blows in the library and then Sergeant Rosenberg is all like, "get in line!"
Kristin: Yeah and this was in line for my second runner up for sexual tension.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: This is a sexual tension moment between Xander and Cordelia.
Jenny: Yeah, all that hate flying around?
Kristin: Where Xander's like, "I know you're a girl, but I'm ready to throw down" and she, like, beautifully saunters across the library. [Jenny laughs] And she is like, "I've seen you fight, I can take you." And then as you said, Willow is like, "ahh!"
Jenny: How romantic.
Kristin: "If you keep this up, you can get out of my library" is what Willow says. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: Then we see Giles was sleeping on the floor.
Jenny: Oh right, and Ethan Rayne pours acid on himself.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: We assume that's acid.
Kristin: Yeah. To remove the tattoo.
Jenny: Also, ow. Also another question. If you pour acid on yourself, does it really get rid of a tattoo?
Kristin: Ooh.
Jenny: Wait, I didn't just ask that. Don't do any research.
Kristin: That's probably a horrible thing to Google.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Do you know that I learned this week that Buffy the Vampire Slayer was the first television series to ever use the phrase "I Googled it"?
Jenny: You know what's weird, you said you learned that today?
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: 'Cause I feel like about a month ago, we had the same conversation where you were like, "do you know what I learned today?"
Kristin: No!
Jenny: [skeptical] Mmmm…
Kristin: Somebody tweeted at me yesterday.
Jenny: [skeptical] Mmm, but you know how sometimes you learn things -
NOTES: [laughs]
Kristin: Did I say it on the podcast? Is there evidence?
Jenny: I put the question to our lovely audience.
Kristin: Okay, they'll let me know if I'm repeating myself. I am like a goldfish, I do forget things all the time. [laughs]
Jenny: [laughing] You are. So what do you think in these Giles dreams is the person with the Bono glasses who's like, "time to sleep." Do you think that's Giles, do you think that's Ethan, do you think that's Phillip Henry, do you think that's that other guy whose name got crossed off?
Kristin: I think it's the other guy - yeah, I didn't identify that rose-colored glasses person to be any of them. I was very confused about the dreams. The dreams were weird to me. I didn't feel the dreams had a necessary - like, I didn't feel that they had a purpose in the arc?
Jenny: I feel like they developed over the three times that we saw them and they gave us a window into something that we didn't have a full handle on before - you know, it sort of seeded information each time.
Kristin: Yeah, I guess I just would have just preferred a flashback, you know what I mean? I would loved to see young Giles, who by the way, we get to see in that picture.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: Tiny Giles. But I would have loved to see them interacting more? I just didn't get very much from the dream sequences except for like, oh, things are spooky. But they were - it seemed like we were supposed to gather that Giles was learning things from the dreams, 'cause he had a dream and he realized Buffy was in - you know? I don't know, I was confused.
Jenny: Really? No, the last one? I feel like he just - she told him to stay put 'cause he was all fucked up and then he woke up.
Kristin: And was concerned about her, just period?
Jenny: Yeah and more mobile than when he had passed out.
Kristin: Okay and knew that his boyfriend would be back at his costume shop?
Jenny: Oh yeah.
Kristin: Great. So Willow has a -
Jenny: The best idea.
Kristin: The most incredible idea. She's like, "Angel's dead and Angel has a demon inside of him that's probably stronger than Eyghon" which that's kinda take - [through gritted teeth] by the way, kind of took a risk there guys.
Jenny: Yeah, that could have ended badly.
Kristin: Could have ended really badly. But yeah, we go to the costume shop and there's another fight scene. [laughs]
Jenny: Most of it internal.
Kristin: Angel grabs Jenny by the throat and Giles has a moment of panic, he's gonna kill her, Willow says, "trust me" and then… [laughing]
Jenny: And then Eyghon enters Angel's body and we see a wonderful wibble-wobble effect come over his face.
Kristin: It's such - it's the same wibble-wobble that we saw in the Master's…
Jenny: Oh yeah!
Kristin: It's the same filter. They were just like, eh, just put that wibble wobble bubble. Just put that over Angel's face. [laughing]
Jenny: And internally, Angel triumphs and then falls down.
Kristin: Yeah. Jenny and Giles walk out and we think, okay, well, they're gonna be still in love.
Jenny: But no because PTS Jenny.
Kristin: Yeah, because she's so traumatized. I mean, she was possessed for quite some time.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: She's exhausted and she doesn't want Giles to touch her. It's really sad. I have -
Jenny: Yeah, she looks like she has not been sleeping. Wow, Kristin drew Jenny and Giles and then a broken heart in the middle.
Kristin: In between. I was really sad for them. Right above that, I wrote: "nice neckerchief, Buffy."
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: Buffy's rocking a neckerchief, once again.
Jenny: To hide that tattoo.
Kristin: And then Buffy and Giles, right? At the end here, they have this conversation.
Jenny: So beautiful.
Kristin: Jenny, you can talk about it. I know it really got you.
Jenny: It's just like, this reversal, and Buffy's all like, "you should forgive yourself regardless of whether Jenny forgives you or not." And then she's like, "hey, check it out, you were a short-sighted idiot. Guess we have something in common after all."
Kristin: Awww.
Jenny: Which is nice.
Kristin: Such a good moment. They have certainly - they've bonded way more than Joyce and Buffy have bonded at this point.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Right, they're like -
Jenny: Where is Joyce? Ugh, she's at the gallery, I guess.
Kristin: Joyce is so busy.
Jenny: Uh, she's got an opening coming up this weekend.
Kristin: She has so much to do. She's probably going on a date, you know?
Jenny: [skeptically] I don't know.
Kristin: No, just working. Just working hard for her money.
Jenny: Yeah, she is a busy lady.
Kristin: She is, she's very busy. And then we learn that Giles does like music, he just prefers music by the Bay City Rollers.
Jenny: Wow. Which - yeah.
Kristin: We'll see what happens but I think we're gonna take a little inspiration from that fact for our song this week.
Jenny: We're gonna try.
Kristin: We're gonna try, we'll see how we do.
Jenny: Also, "I think we're supposed to be training right now," Buffy says as the completely full high school is walked through by many, many students on their way to and from class. Implying that Buffy doesn't just train in the library after hours, as she was in the beginning of the episode, but she also just does it in the middle of school.
Kristin: In her free periods, probably.
Jenny: Because as we know, no one ever goes to the library at Sunnydale High School.
Kristin: No, no one. No one ever.
Jenny: For any reason.
Kristin: No. They don't need books. They got… they don't have anything. I was gonna say they've got cell phones. They don't. They don't have anything. They - they're just good. They're good. Maybe they brought crossword puzzles with them or something.
Jenny: Oooh. Yeah yeah yeah.
Kristin: [laughs] Anyhow, great episode.
Jenny: Loved it.
Kristin: So exciting to get to talk to Stuart.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Um, yeah. And I think that does it for this week.
Jenny: Yeah, thanks so much for listening.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: I am Jenny Owen Youngs and when I'm not watching Buffy, I write songs, make records. You can learn more about me and hear some of those songs at jennyowenyoungs.com/buffering and you can give me a shout on Twitter at @jennyowenyoungs.
Kristin: And I am Kristin Russo and you can follow me over on Twitter at @kristinnoeline. And you know, I usually point you over to everyoneisgay.com and mykidisgay.com and you should certainly check those sites out. Those are some of the places where I do work with LGBTQ youth, but I'm going to start pointing you over to my website which is also kristinnoeline.com. For those of you who thought I wasn't going to spell my name -
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: You were mistaken. I was just getting through that. It is K-R-I-S-T-I-N-N-O-E-L-I-N-E on Twitter and that is my website where you can find out all about the other things I do in my life.
Jenny: As we mentioned earlier, we've got a Buffywatch on March 10th and you can find out information about that event and all our upcoming events as a duo or that we might be doing individually by visiting bufferingthevampireslayer.com and clicking on Events. Follow us on Twitter at @bufferingcast or drop us an email at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin: Also to support our work, you can go on over to our Patreon page, patreon.com/bufferingcast. We are so excited that we just met our first goal. Thank you so much for helping us get there and so quickly. We would love to see even more of you come on over there. It helps us do what we do and we have a big fun announcement this week. Our merch store which you may already know about has two brand new items in it. We have a shirt that says "Just Keep Fighting" from the last song that we wrote for Season 1, "Prophecy Girl". It's pretty awesome, it was designed by Allison Weiss and we also have a shirt that says "Smash the Demon Lizard Patriarchy" taken from our live episode [laughs] for "Reptile Boy" and designed by Isabella Rotman. We are so flipping excited about these shirts, we could not wait to get them on our own bodies. You can go on over to our website, bufferingthevampireslayer.com and click on Store and see that, plus of course, our Buffering the Vampire Slayer t-shirt designed by Kristin Thune, as well as our Slayerette and Cordette pins designed by Kate Leth.
Jenny: Leave us a review on iTunes or subscribe, that helps other people find our podcast. It's a big help to us.
Kristin: One last thing before we get to this wonderful song. March 10th as you know is the 20th anniversary of Buffy the Vampire Slayer and if you are not already subscribed to our podcast, now would be probably a good time because maybe, I don't know, but maybe we'll just have something special coming your way on Friday and you probably wouldn't want to miss it.
Jenny: Thank you so much for listening. 'Til next time…
Jenny and Kristin: Awooooooooooooo! [Jenny performing "The Dark Age" off of the album "Songs from Season Two" by Buffering the Vampire Slayer] Never knew that you got into Passing out for demon rituals When you were closer to my age Now these youthful indiscretions Surfacing in fearful remnants Making all your old friends turn into… Blue goo That's how the demon spreads Blue goo If you're unconscious or dead Blue goo Stay away from that blue goo Ethan Rayne seems like the kind of Nemesis who's a backbiter Can't believe you used to be good friends Jenny Calendar, you love her Which is gross cause you're adults but No one wanted her to fall into… Blue goo That's how the demon spreads Blue goo If you're unconscious or dead Blue goo Stay away from that blue goo My pals are really smart And also my boyfriend Is in possession of a useful demon You said to go away That you would handle it Lucky for you I'm no good at listening And it turns out we got An actual awful lot Of stuff in common and we need each other, Giles Blue goo Was how the demon spread Blue goo But now that demon is dead Blue goo We saved the whole world from blue goo Except Phillip and Diedre
Kristin: So we recorded this episode on Tuesday, but it goes up on Wednesday. And this Wednesday is March 8th, International Women's Day and also A Day Without a Woman. A day when many women are taking the day off of work, staying home from work to make a statement about what this world would be like without a woman. However, many women also can't do that. Many women have to go to work and many of them are going to be wearing red. So we just wanted to say that we stand in solidarity with all of you participating. And I just want to close with a tweet from an activist that we follow, Brittany Packnett, because I think it really sums up what today isabout. She says: "I'm hoping tomorrow is not a day where we judge women for their choice to not work or their need to. This is a day of empowerment. Whether you see a woman not working or a woman wearing red or a woman doing neither, think about what we go through to need this day at all."