Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 0.16: Interview with Sophia Crawford & Jeff Pruitt
Jenny: Support for today's episode comes from Buffy. Buffy makes bedding that's earth-friendly and cruelty-free. Their latest product, The Breeze, is a comforter made entirely from 100% eucalyptus fiber, to regulate temperature and keep you cool and comfortable all night long. And Buffy offers a free trial, so if you don't love it, return it at no cost. Whether you sleep in a coffin, or surrounded by doily pillows, or in some other sleep configuration, your sleep experience can be made cozier by Buffy. For $20 off your Buffy comforter, visit Buffy.co and enter code BUFFERING. That's Buffy.co and enter code BUFFERING for $20 off.
Kristin: Hello there! Dearest, most darling Scoobies, welcome to another episode of Buffering the Vampire Slayer. This is a very special one. Today I am sitting down with Jeff Pruitt who was the stunt coordinator on Buffy the Vampire Slayer from 97 to 2000 and Sophia Crawford who was Buffy's stunt double from seasons one to four. Now you're probably feeling a mix of emotions. You're like, "Oh my God, how is it possible? How can they just keep giving us so much wonderful content?" And also, "But I thought you were talking about 'Restless' today?" Well we are going to actually talk about "Restless" for the next two weeks. We are putting up the first part of our season finale on April 24th and the second part on May 1st. That is because we had so much incredible content for the finale that we just had to split it into two episodes. So the first one you'll get a couple of dreams and a couple of special interviews. The second one you'll get the very same thing. We are so excited to share all of it with you, and we hope you are very excited to get into today's episode where I went all the way to Atlanta, Georgia to talk with Jeff and Sophia. You're going to learn a lot about them. You're going to learn a lot about all of the wonderful work that they did on this incredible television show. But first let me tell you some news. Philadelphia, you know by now that we're coming to your city on September 13th. It is a Friday the 13th, and we are taping the season premiere of season five at world cafe live. You sold us out in one day. Holy forking shirt. Thank you so much. We are so excited. It's going to be… it's going to be really fun. So Philly, brace yourselves! Also [sing-song voice] we have some new merchandise! [Speaking normally] You think you know what I'm talking about because we added a new t-shirt a couple of weeks ago with a re-imagining of the logo design done by Kristin Thune who did the original logo. It's a beautiful t-shirt. It is still there for you. And I've seen someof your pictures wearing it. It's rad, but we have three more new things: We have a new enamel pin designed by Carra Sykes. It is a bird's eye view of Willow and Tara doing what is referred to, lovingly, as the O spell. It's a glitter pin. It has glitter in it, it is fuck-ing beau-ti-ful. So you might want to run over there and check it out. We also have a new mug with our logo on it so you can sip your coffee or your blood, no judgment here a while, you know, letting people know that Buffering the Vampire Slayer is a show that you think is cool. Last but certainly not least, we have a dad hat. I am excited about this but maybe nobody is more excited than Jenny Owen Youngs, who is wearing it on her head probably right this very moment. You can find all of that plus all of our other merch bufferingthevampireslayer.com. Just click on shop. Speaking of going to bufferingthevampireslayer.com, you can click on Patreon while you're there and support us. And let me tell what, this week our patrons are getting, all of our patrons are getting a little bit, little tiny bonus. It's just a little six minute bonus from this very interview. There's a couple of really fun stories. There's a story about the only fight Jeff and Sarah ever gone in on set. There's a story about the hunga munga scene, which I know you all remember. So a couple of fun things that didn't make it into the main thing, but we thought it would be fun for your ears. So again, that's available now for all of our patrons at every level of giving. Alright, before we get into today's episode, you know there's another kind of news I got to bring to your ears. Here we go.
NOTES: [SPOOKY NEWS jingle plays] Spooky news!
Kristin: Cool! Today's headline is titled on cnn.com, "Tiny Bees Found in Woman's Eye Feeding Off of Her Tears." What in the fuck? So this time when these women went to the doctor for a swollen eye and the doctors were like, "Holy fucking shit, there are four bees in your eye." They are called sweat bees. They're very small. But don't let that not spook you out because my whole body is one giant chill at the moment thinking about this horror. Apparently these bees, this is really funny, apparently these bees usually nest inone of two places: in fallen trees or near graves. So like what? Do you think that Buffy ever had to wrestle with any of these sweat bees? This one went to her relatives grave site and she said that the wind blew and something blew into her eye. It was really painful. After three hours of the pain, she went to the hospital where the doctors were like, "Yo, there's fucking bees in your eye." So you know, like if you're going to a graveyard to visit your relatives or you know, fight vampires, maybe wear some sunglasses. I'm just saying. This has been your spooky news.
NOTES: [SPOOKY NEWS jingle plays] Spooky news!
Kristin: As always, thank you to Lauren Klein, our dutiful sound engineer. You can follow Lauren on Instagram. Should you want to know what a sound engineer does with her life at @LaurenTaylorKline. And that's all I'm going to say into your ear balls at this point in time because holy crap! Let's go talk to the incredible Jeff and Sophia Who, I didn't mention at the top, not only did they work on the stunts on Buffy the Vampire Slayer and Power Rangers - there's some stories in there about that too - but they're also married to each other. They also run a coffee shop. I'm going to say this again at the end, but I interviewed them at their coffee shop that they own. It's in Peachtree Corners, which is just outside of Atlanta or maybe considered part of Atlanta. I don't understand geography. It's called The Federal and it's just their coffee shop! This is what they do. There's a ti - I'm going to post on social media. You will see that when you walk into this coffee shop, not only can you get coffee, but there's a tiny little figurine of Buffy. Like it's just - I'm just saying if you're near Atlanta, you should probably go check it out, support them, of course, but also you'll have a blast. Okay. That is all I'm going to say. Let us please hear from these wonderful human beings who have just so many stories from their time on the set of Buffy the Vampire Slayer.
NOTES: [Buffering the Vampire Slayer intro plays]
Kristin: Okay. So I'm here with Jeff and Sophia, so excited that you both agreed to sit and talk with us. We have so many listeners who are so excited. I know you've seen some of the questions in advance, but you all, I posted a picture so let everyone know that we were going to be talking and people had endless questions. I don't even think we're going to cover all of them, [Jeff laughs] but we're going to try to, so thank you so much for your time.
Jeff: Oh, thank you. Thank you for coming.
Sophia: Oh you're very welcome. Thank you for inviting us.
Kristin: Yes. [All laugh.] So, okay, so take me back to the beginning. Sophia, maybe we can start with you. How did you get into doing this work? How did you become somebody who was Buffy's stunt double for all of the seasons?
Sophia: Well, there was a lot that happened before Buffy. You know, because I, I'm from England. I grew up in England. As a teenager I threw on a backpack and jumped on a bus and we drove from London to India, sleeping in tents. And I spent about six months traveling India with my sister. And at the time I really, you know, I didn't know what I wanted to do with my life. I just wanted to explore the world. And I was meeting people that they were coming from Asia and they were always talking to us about, "Oh, you should go here. You should go there. You should go there." So I eventually, I lived in Thailand for a bit and my sister left and went to South America, but I felt compelled for some reason to stay in Thailand. Not just because I loved it, but I just felt like I wanted to do something with my life. I wanted to have some type of career but didn't know which direction to go into. So I was teaching English in Thailand, essentially just to make some money, and I fell into a modeling work there through the hotel that I was working for. And then I started working as an extra in films that were American films that were shooting in Thailand. And a lot of the camera equipment came from Hong Kong, from salon films, and the crew were all from Hong Kong. And you know, when I was talking to them about wanting to get into the film industry and they suggested to me that I should move to Hong Kong because I had a British passport and I could work there without worrying about a permit. And they said that there was a lot of action films there and that there was a need for Westerners. And if I was interested in getting into acting, then I should go to Hong Kong. So that's exactly what I did. So I moved to Hong Kong and I spent the next five years working there and I was talking to I realized that, as an actress there, there was a need for, let's say they needed Westerners to play the evil Westerners, the bad villains, you know? So they would have opponents to fight with. But in order to get these roles then they needed to study martial arts. And I was always very athletic, tomboyish, I was never… I was always hanging out with the boys. And you know, so I started training with the stunt men over there. And I spent the next five years there learning as much as I could about the stunt industry, getting work and getting experience on set. And working, learning, you know, all different aspects of, of Hong Kong style action. And then after about five years there and then and accumulating a decent resume, I felt that it was time for me to take - to take the next step and try to see if I could get work in America. So I moved to Los Angeles and when I arrived in Los Angeles, I guess it was really a timing thing. There were, you know, Power Rangers, WMAC
Masters, Kung Fu: The Legend. There were, there were opportunities for me that came up almost immediately. And - but none of those opportunities I would have been able to have taken had I have not spent the five years that I spent in Hong Kong prior learning those skills and honing those skills.
Kristin: Right.
Sophia: And there were so many people that inspired me in Hong Kong. Yukari Oshima and Moon Lee and all the guys out there I was absolutely in awe of the talent, the skill, the creativity, you know, the stunt work, it was all very - it was so unique and I, I fell in love with it.
Jeff: I had worked with her on a movie, and then I was doing Power Rangers and I needed a Pink Ranger double.
Kristin: The Pink Ranger was always my favorite Ranger.
NOTES: [Kristin and Sophia laugh.]
Jeff: And she showed her - she showed up, we were going to audition some girls and she showed up and I thought, "Oh, I thought you just wanted to be an actress." And she said, "No, I'm bored! I want to do fighting!"
NOTES: [Kristin laughs.]
Sophia: Exactly.
Jeff: Because she came, she came from Hong Kong and every film was fighting, fighting, fighting. But here it was, at that time, women weren't fighting.
Sophia: No.
Jeff: We didn't have an action like Buffy at that time. So she was like, "All these, you know, these parts are just boring."
NOTES: [All laughing.]
Sophia: They were.
Kristin: "You won't let me punch anything!"
Sophia: Exactly! I wasn't allowed to. I had to run and hold the hand of some guy and play his girlfriend. And I was like, "Oh, god."
Jeff: So I said, "No, come be with us. We always do is fight, fight all day long. So come on."
Sophia: And I was like, "Yeah!"
Jeff: "Be the Pink Ranger!"
Kristin: Okay. I want to hear about your background too. But first since you're talking already about the fact that this is right when you got here and you'realready talking like you know each other: How did you meet each other?
Jeff: I used to watch her in a Hong Kong films. Cause I lived with Japanese stuntmen, right? And so we all would watch Hong Kong films all day long. And I used to watch her -
Kristin: Wow!
Jeff: -and I thought, "Wow, she's the coolest." [Kristin laughs.] And then, and then, but she also would watch Hollywood films and she saw this movie that I did where I was always coordinating the martial arts film, and then I would double the star. And then once in awhile I would either play a bad guy or play like his buddy or something and get to do a little bit of fighting.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jeff: So this film called Mission of Justice, she saw and I got to play his buddy and I actually got to step out and do a little bit of fighting and she was like, "Who's that guy? Who's that guy?"
Sophia: I was like, "I don't care about the lead. Who is that guy." You know, when I was in Hong Kong, one of the things that I did was I would always go to the Hong Kong video stores and learn as much as I could about the Hong Kong film industry, watching a lot of Hong Kong films.
Kristin: Mh-hmm.
Sophia: And so… and I loved it. And then prior to coming to America, I did the same thing with the movie - American films, was start to really research and watch as many films as I could. And so that's how I came upon his film and several other people that I got to meet later on when I arrived in Los Angeles, I'd already seen their work.
Kristin: Right.
Jeff: What's funny about that too is that particular film is the thing that got me into Buffy.
Sophia: Yeah.
Jeff: Because after they had done the first 13 episodes and Sophia was the fighting double on the first 13 episodes -
Kristin: In the first season of Buffy?
Jeff: In the first season of Buffy, yeah. And then the second season came around and Sarah and Sophia and Sarah's lighting stand-in, Lisa - all three went to Joss and said, "Why don't - you should, if you're getting a new stunt coordinator, you should talk to Jeff." He was talking to everybody in town, but he said, "No, no, no, I don't want to do that" because I was the Power Ranger guy.
Kristin: Mmm.
Jeff: And what had happened was early on when they were talking about making Buffy a series, someone suggested, "Oh, it will be like the Pink Ranger and it'd be like an afterschool and it would be cute."
Kristin: Oh, so he was like, [laughing] "No!"
Jeff: He was like, "No, it's not like that at all!" [Kristin laughs.] And, and also in the Buffy movie, which he didn't like some of the things - the way they did it. One of the things was, you know, she comes out and just starts doing back handsprings for no reason, which is what we did on Power Rangers, a lot of gymnastics and very pose-y. So he thought, "I don't want people flying around on wires and flipping for no reason. That's not what I want." And so he would never see me. And also he found out we were dating and he said, "I don't want people who are dating because then they'll start fighting on the set."
Kristin: Right.
Jeff: And so, finally, uh, something came up. He had hired one guy, they started the first episode of the second season, he got mad at the guy and fired him. Then they hired another guy and he was ready to come in, and since Sarah said, "Well, why don't you just talk to Jeff just to talk to him?" Joss said, "Okay, just to please you. [Kristin laughs] I will talk to the guy, but that's it. Maybe if I have something in the future but I'll, I'll be glad to meet him." And so I came in, I didn't have anything prepared, so I just showed him this and he was like, "That's what I want Buffy to do! Can Sophia do that?" And I said, "Sure."
Kristin: Wow.
Jeff: And then we started talking and then within a few minutes he told them, "Don't - Call the other guy and tell him, don't come in. I've got the guy, I've got the guy." It was the first time I had a show, which I, I loved all the shows that I worked on, but it's just that they weren't something that I would watch for my own entertainment, you know? And this was the first time I had something that I would watch for myself. Even if I weren't working on it. I would watch that show because it was entertaining to me. It was so well written.
Kristin: Yeah! Oh, that's fun. As you might imagine, I would agree.
Sophia: And for me also, you know, I really loved reading the scripts as they came in. And it wasn't just about sifting through the dialogue to look for what's stunts I had. No, I was, I wanted to know what the story was, how the characters were evolving. I became, I mean, I was a fan myself.
NOTES: [Sophia laughs.]
Kristin: I mean to hear you say, right, like, "I had all these parts where I was just holding my boyfriend's hand and I wanted to think more." I mean, if there's something that defines the Buffy the Vampire Slayer the series more that's…
Sophia: Absolutely.
Jeff: That's it.
Sophia: Absolutely. And I'd been craving for it and I - Because in Hong Kong, the women had pivotal roles. They were fierce fighters, then they had very good roles, you know, strong roles. And then I was a little just disappointed when I came over to America at that time in the very early nineties, and the women weren't being offered these roles. I was like, "There's something not quite right about this." You know? "Why are you so behind the times?" Women and people in general - It's like, this is just such a, an old fashion.
Jeff: Well, even, even during Power Rangers, I was talking to different producers about doing something like Buffy but with a female character and they would all say, "Yeah, but she can be the sidekick of the hero. But people want to see the guy. It's all about the guy. Nobody wants to see a girl fight."
Sophia: Yeah, "Nobody wants to see a girl fight." I heard that a lot.
Kristin: How wrong they were wrong.
Sophia: Yes.
Jeff: It all started, I think with Buffy -
Sophia and Jeff: -and Xena -
Jeff: I think those two shows really catapulted the whole thing. And then after that, I mean you could see it, all of the television shows that came after Buffy and Xena had a lot of female fighters and it just became, "Oh, it's normal now."
Kristin: Tell us about your history too. Like how did you - we've heard how Sophia sort of found your way [laughing] across the globe and into the work that you do, but how did you get to it?
Jeff: Well, I, I grew up, I watched, when I was a little kid, I watched Bruce Lee and Green Hornet right when that came out. And then I was racing motorcycles and cars and I just grew up that way with martial arts and vehicles. And as time went on, I think film started happening since I'm from Georgia. Film started happening in Georgia and after high school I started dabbling in films. I would work as a PA and I would work as - in any way I could to get on the set. And then eventually I worked as a camera operator. And then finally I got to know enough stunt people that they started letting me step in and do some things. And then gradually I just started doing stunts. And when I made my way out to LA, I did stunts for a while. And then one of the second ADs on the second unit of a Chuck Norris film that I worked on here in Atlanta -
Kristin: [Laughs.] Wow!
Jeff: -back in the early eighties met me in Atlanta. He said, "Hey, I've been calling your house in Georgia looking for you." And I said, "Well, I'm here in LA." And he said, "Oh, come down to the set." So I came to the set and he was doing a martial arts film and we started working together. Then after that introduced me to the producers and I just kept going one film after another with them. And then I got calls to do more and then TV shows, and then it just kept going from there.
Kristin: The next question I had, we kind of touched on already. You knew each other for a long time. You were dating before you even hit the set of Buffy. You were already dating.
Jeff: Well, what happened was I was dating someone and she, when she came over here -
Sophia: On Power Rangers, not Buffy.
Jeff: Right, on Power Rangers. [Kristin laughs.] And what happened was we, she was, I would break up with my girlfriend and then we would date again. Then we would break up.
Kristin: Ahh, we know that one, yes.
Sophia: I had a crush on him. [Kristin laughs.] Right? And I wouldn't touch him cause he had a girlfriend. So I was like, "No."
Jeff: And make a move on her because I was directing second unit and she was the Rink Ranger and I thought -
Kristin: Right.
Jeff: I shouldn't be like hitting on the Pink Ranger. [Kristin laughs.] So I'm trying to be Mr. Professional all the time. And I didn't know it, but she -
Sophia: I thought you didn't like me.
NOTES: [Kristin and Sophia laugh.]
Jeff: Oh no! Oh, it was terrible. At, at lunch I would sit down with the DP and my first AD and they would go, "Dude, you know, she likes you. Why don't you ask her out?" And I was going, "Oh man, I can't, what if she says no?" It was so stupid.
Kristin: Right, right.
Sophia: And I was like "I'm not gonna make a move."
Kristin: It's always so stupid.
Sophia: "I'm not gonna make a move. No." So we were friends for at least a year, right?
Jeff: And she would, I didn't know this, but she when in the Pink Ranger helmet, she would be standing there talking to the other Power Rangers and I would be over there with the DP working out this scene. I thought she wasn't paying attention to me, but really what she did was she would turn the Pink Ranger helmet to face the people and she would her her head inside -
Sophia: I would spy on him.
Jeff: -so she could watch and know what I was doing.
Kristin: Oh my god.
Sophia: I would watch him through the helmet [Kristin laughing] and he couldn't see that I was watching him that I was -
Jeff: I had no idea.
Sophia: Yeah, I was stalking you, dude.
NOTES: [All laughing.]
Kristin: Incredible.
Jeff: And I was the one trying to look at her because I thought, "Oh good, she's not looking right now."
Kristin: Wow. And you were looking at each other.
NOTES: [Kristin laughs.]
Jeff: Yeah, I was checking her out. Oh, man. It was terrible.
Kristin: And so now you've been together…
Sophia: 25 years. We just had our 25th anniversary.
Jeff: Yeah.
Kristin: Wow. Happy anniversary!
Sophia: Thank you.
Kristin: Happy belated anniversary. That's incredible. Okay, so let's talk a little bit. I'm still reeling at the like Pink Power Ranger helmet [Jeff and Sophia laugh.] part of the story, as a person who is obviously, you know, very aware of the Power Rangers or when the Power Rangers were initially on.
Jeff: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: Okay. So, this question - So a lot of the questions, as I mentioned at the top of the interview, came from our listeners because they are so excited.
Sophia: Aw, great.
Kristin: So I'm going to talk - I'm going to tell you who the questions came from.
Sophia: Lovely.
Kristin: So Katie from Twitter asked where the line is when it comes to fight choreography. Like for you Sophia, where that line is between Sarah and you? And is it different depending on the actor? Some actors do more before somebody like you would come in for them? So where is that line and how does that work?
Jeff: Well, the - on Buffy, we usually had the guys do a little bit more than the girls. But with Sarah my number one job was always to keep her safe. I mean, they said "Pruitt do not let her get a scratch."
Kristin: Right.
Jeff: And I made sure I told the stunt guys, "Don't even grab her hard." I mean we were so careful because you know, she was brilliant actress but she wasn't really a physical type person. You know, she wasn't rough and tumble type. So we would shoot all of the fights with Sophia and then I would pick like two or three spots to put Sarah in. We would just do a quick little - As a matter of fact, you, you had mentioned something about heels, wearing heels.
Kristin: Yes. But yeah, one of the questions is about her always being fighting in heels.
Jeff: Well, Sophia and all of the girls, all of the stunt women can tell you horror stories about, you know, people have broken their ankles and stuff trying to wear these spiked heels and stuff. But we talked with Sarah and we talk with wardrobe and Joss and everybody and we made a deal with them to, whenever in the scene if they would write the wardrobe so that anytime she's wearing something like that, most of the time when it comes to time to fight a bunch of vampires we wore what we call "Buffy Boots." So it was always the same boots that she wore there was good for Sophia to, to fight in, except -
Sophia: But the wardrobe, actually, on Buffy was very accommodating towards me.
Jeff: As compared to other shows.
Sophia: Yeah. Very. They were lovely actually. Really great.
Jeff: Sometimes in features it's very difficult because they don't understand. They're just thinking about what it looks like.
Kristin: Yeah.
Sophia: Because we were fighting on slippery grass in the graveyard and you know, you couldn't wear heels. You'd just get your heels stuck in the grass. It would be impossible. I'd break my something.
NOTES: [Crosstalk.]
Jeff: Yeah, Buffy wardrobe, they understand the importance of the fight scenes with the show and so they, they accommodate.
Sophia: But it's not been like that on other shows. I have worked on other shows. I worked on one show where I was doubling Tori Spelling and I had to wear a high heel boot because there was no match to it. I was the only foot that would fit into it. And it was a simple like eight foot jump from standing to concrete. But I broke the bones in my feet. [Kristin gasps.] Wardrobe turned their backs on me. They wouldn't watch me jump. And it's such a simple stunt, but it's so dangerous because you're, you know, you're landing on your toes on concrete and something's gonna break.
Kristin: Yeah.
Sophia: And I've been with other stunt performers who have broken the bones in their feet as well while we are jumping together in heels. So I've broken the bones in my feet, I've sprained my ankle from trying to work in heels, and it's just, you know, it's something that we do and, and you wardrobe usually you will work quite closely with us with getting some type of a shoe that looks similar but has a lower heel. Perhaps a wedge that has a little bit more, you know, is a little bit more sturdy. But that's not - You get what you get.
Kristin: Yeah.
Sophia: You know? And you just gotta work with what you get. And if it's really not working, then maybe Matt need to change a choreography slightly, you know, to accommodate for that. He'll, but generally speaking, no. We get what we get when we work, you know, we work it out.
Kristin: Right. I want to go back to, just real quick, cause I know people are wondering about this. You said Buffy boots.
Jeff: Buffy boots, yeah.
Kristin: We talk a lot about these, but I think Buffy boots, they're the ones that look like the Brown leather, square -
Sophia: The square heel. Exactly!
Kristin: We are like, "She is always in those boots!"
Jeff: Right. That's why.
Sophia: Those are Buffy boots.
Kristin: That why! We cracked it, guys!
Sophia: You did.
Jeff: Actually Sarah a lot of times not, is not even wearing the Buffy boots. When we would do her shots, we would do Sophia doing the fight, but when we do Sarah, it would be from the waist up. So she would be wearing her tennis shoes during the, during the actual shooting.
Kristin: Right, right.
Sophia: But, you know, we did do some training. We actually worked quite hard with Sarah in the first season to do some training. But as the show evolved, you know, she also got an extremely busy schedule and was constantly being pulled away, which took her away from time to train with me. And then when she would get onto the set, you know, so it was just, it was a very, very fast moving show.
Kristin: What does that look like when you say, you know, you would train with her. Like you would teach her certain moves that would allow her to teach moves?
Sophia: I would like, so from for instance, so we'd work on certain kicking techniques that weren't too difficult. Certain blocking techniques and techniques where she could, you know, flow from her dialogue. A lot of like strong poses, strong stances, these things, things that could tie into and be edited into me.
Kristin: And we see, I feel like as a viewer, especially the way that we watch the show now doing a podcast about it, you know, we're watching it so much more closely. That it does seem that as the seasons progress, Sarah is getting more and more experienced in, you know, you do see her like strong, more strongest staking.
Sophia: Yes, absolutely. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Jeff: Because she came from the soap world and in suddenly, here's this actress who, she was a great actress, but all of a sudden they're like, "Okay, now you have to do this." And she had just, you know - When she was auditioning for the part, she had mentioned, "Oh yeah, when I was a kid I went to martial arts class." But they took that to mean, "Oh, you're a martial arts expert." But no, you know, she was just an actress. You know, it was like a kid who went to an aerobics class. That doesn't mean you're like -
Sophia: Yeah, it takes time to train.
Jeff: Yeah, stunt fighting is a thing unto itself. Even if I went to the kickboxing gym and got it just got a guy who's - knock you out in the ring and brought him onto the set and said, "Okay, now we're going to do a fight scene." He would look stiff and boring because you have to learn all these expressive over the - Things that are the exact opposite of what you would do in the ring, you have to do as a stunt person and an actor fighting. So it's, it's a whole lot to learn.
Kristin: Right.
Jeff: But as we went along, she more and more got into -
Sophia: Yeah.
Jeff: -understanding it and she knew she knew what she needed to do and what she didn't need to do. And she trusted me completely as far as that. I trusted her with, I would show her where the acting bits were and whatever it was. She thought how Buffy should do it. That was her. And as far as the action and what I needed her to do, whatever that was, she'd leave that to me. And that's how we did it.
Sophia: And anything she had to do, I'd be right there with the pads. Make sure she was, you know, always padded to the max.
Kristin: Right.
Sophia: Anything she had to do to make sure she didn't get -
Kristin: She was like a quarterback, [Kristin and Sophia laugh.] well protected.
Sophia: Absolutely. 56%
Jeff: She was, because that's what the - and even she said to me, not just the producers saying, you know, to protect Sarah. But Sarah said, "No one touches me." I only - only I could pick her up, only I could catch her on the or to catch her by hand or by the pad or whatever.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jeff: It was like, we had a thing where no one else could do it. It was only me. And that way there's no, uh… like you don't have to worry like, "Who is this guy?" You know, "Is he gonna do this right?"
Kristin: Right. One slip, one - Mh-hmm.
Jeff: Yeah.
Sophia: And she felt comfortable.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jeff: She felt comfortable with me doing that.
Kristin: Probably the most important part of - like a position like both of yours.
Jeff: Because she has to just, you know, focus on her acting. It may be something where she's getting killed and she has to flop and she has to know -
Sophia: And she gets in the moment with her acting. And sometimes will forget surroundings, you know, as actors do.
Kristin: Right.
Jeff: I remember one time I was holding the pad for her and we did like two or three takes where she gets killed. This was when The Master was breaking her neck -
Kristin: Yes!
Jeff: -and she falls out of frame. So I'd already done it with Sophia in the wide shot. So I slipped in there with Sarah to hold the pad and we did like two or three takes. It was great. And then on the fourth take, I don't know what it was, but she just, she was acting and she just, "Ah!" and then she fell. She went the opposite direction [Kristin gasps] and just flopped on the concrete. And I said, "But I'm over here, you know? I'm where I was before." [Kristin laughs.] And she was like, "Oh yeah." [All laugh.] She said, "I thought the pad felt harder."
NOTES: [Kristin laughs.]
Sophia: She was in - actors get in the moment.
Kristin: Yeah, it makes sense. So, alright. I have a question about James Marsters, which is related to this like "Where the line is" because, Katie continued with her question and said, "Is it true that James Marsters did most of his own stunts?" You would probably - well you probably both know you're about there.
Jeff: Right. Well… no. Because when it came to what we call stunts, which was like the crashing thing -
Kristin: Yes.
Jeff: No, we wouldn't let any actor do that. The only time we'd let an actor do that was Nick one time, but -
Kristin: How very Xander of him. [Kristin laughs.]
Jeff: Yeah. It was when he thought he was a soldier, that's why we let him. I said, "Okay, go ahead. Go ahead."
Kristin: Wow.
Jeff: But because we knew, I dunno, it was kind of weird, but we just knew, "Okay, if Nick gets bruised up, then we've got the weekend off and he doesn't have to do anything - you'll be all right."
NOTES: [Kristin laughs.]
Jeff: But you know, certain - James was having a fight all the time. But we did a lot more of the fighting portion of it, and what James had created with the character, how - the way he acted. Then he would try to teach that to Steve Tatalia, the stunt double, so that Steve would kind of act like him. And so we had this thing where - But no, we would shoot more of James actually fighting. But when it comes to like throwing down the stairs or he's getting - we couldn't risk it, you know? We just couldn't. And also another thing we did is we never, after somewhere in the second season, we decided not to allow, and this was Joss talking to me about this, he said, "Let'sjust make a rule and this is the rule and the rule is: We'll show an actor's face, we're never going to have two actors punching each other in the face. Only if it's a actor getting punched at face, it's a stunt person punching the actor." Cause we, they would - the two actors would get a little bit carried away. They weren't used to having distance and they would always clock each other.
NOTES: [Kristin laughs.]
Jeff: So we decided, okay, just stunt double we'll hit. So like when you see the sword fight with Sarah and David are never actually sword fighting each other. It's always David sword fighting Sophia. Or there's a little bit over the shoulder with David's stunt double and Sarah, you know, in a closeup.
Kristin: Mh-hmm.
Jeff: Because if a lead actor gets punched in the face, it changes everything. You have to reschedule. You have to figure out, how can I shoot this guy with his eye closed?
Kristin: Oh my gosh.
Jeff: He's got, you know - they're gung-ho.
Sophia: So they would do things together, but not when - Certain things you would have to make sure that -
NOTES: [Crosstalk.]
Jeff: Especially the guys. They're gung ho to do it, but you just don't wanna risk it.
Sophia: And James was always gung ho. And don't get us wrong, James was extremely energetic.
Jeff: Oh, yeah.
Sophia: And he was agile, absolutely. And there were things he could have done like he could have done more.
Kristin: I think, I feel like we just had an episode where it looked like he could do that. There's probably a name for this that you both know, but where you're like on your back and you jump up.
Sophia: Oh he kips up!
Jeff: He kips up!
Kristin: What is it called?
Sophia and Jeff: A kip up.
Sophia: See James was very athletic. Absolutely. So was David. They both were. So was Nick.
Jeff: That was one of the first things that I found out, I said, "Oh, you can kip up. Okay, we're going to kip up in this."
Sophia: Yeah. Certain things like that, we would certainly use.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Support for today's episode comes from Care/of. Make 2020 the year to prioritize you and commit to staying on top of your health. Instead of that laundry list of resolutions you don't end up sticking with, Care/of can make taking your vitamins and supporting you health goals attainable. Care/of's short online quiz makes it easy. Just answer some simple questions about your diet, health, goals, and lifestyle, and Care/of will recommend a list of vitamins and supplements specifically for your health needs and goals, whether it's improving your fitness routine or improving stress. And you can follow Care/of's expert recommendations, or adjust your pack at any time. What you receive is totally up to you. I've been using Care/of for a while now, I think they're great. I loved taking the online quiz, it was super simple and straightforward, and they gave me a variety of things to choose form that they thought might be useful to me. I picked what I wanted, including some vitamins and also some plant-based protein powder. I've been using those products ever since, and they're great. The protein powder in particular is delicious in my opinion. For 50% off your first Care/of order, go to takecareof.com and enter code BUFFERING50. That's takecareof.com and code BUFFERING50 for 50% off your first Care/of order.
Kristin: Today's episode is brought to you by Aurate. Aurate is a jewelry brand that is founded by women and is made ethically here in New York City. Pieces range from classic to statement to completely original. If you're a jewelry lover, trust me, this is the stuff you always want to find, but never can. Aurate makes real gold accessible by selling directly to you without the middleman markup. They offer the same quality as the fancy, expensive brands at a fraction of the cost. All of Aurate's pieces come with a lifetime warranty, because they know that their jewelry lasts. I have a couple of really beautiful pieces from Aurate. I have a gold cuff that goes up the top of your ear that you can wear without a piercing. I love it so much. And I also have a really beautiful necklace that's a gold bar. It's really simple and beautiful. And both pieces, the cuff especially, is just something I think I'll have for the rest of my life. It's really, really high quality and I love the way that it looks. For 15% off of your first Aurate purchase, go to Auratenewyork.com/buffy and use promo code BUFFY. That's A-U-R-A-T-E-NewYork dot com slash Buffy, use code BUFFY for 15% off your first purchase.
Kristin: Today's episode is brought to you by PrettyLitter. If you're like me and you're hiding out during the long winter months, it means there's a lot of downtown inside you house. And if you're a cat owner, you might be apprehensive of being within nose-shot of your litter box for hours on end, especially if its due for a refresh. Thanks to PrettyLitter you can get odorless litter delivered right to your door. PrettyLitter is kitty litter reinvented. Unlike traditional litter, PrettyLitter's super light crystals trap odor and release moisture, resulting in dry, low-maintenance litter that does not smell. PrettyLitter is virtually dust-free because it's manufactured with a specialized dedusting process. PrettyLitter also ships in a small lightweight bag that lasts and entire month. No more bulky containers or frequent trips to the store. But above all else, PrettyLitter monitors your cats health by changing colors when it detects potential underlying issues. My and my cats, Sam and Gus, are big fans of PrettyLitter. All of the elements of PrettyLitter are pretty awesome, but especially we love the fact that it is on its own schedule. It's delivered to our door and so I never forget to get them new litter. You should make the switch today. Go to PrettyLitter.com, use promo code BUFFY and you'll get 20% off your first order. That's PrettyLitter.com, promo code BUFFY. 67%
Kristin: So there's a lot of questions here about like fighting styles. And Jeff, one is specifically for you in terms of - and this is Michael from Facebook, wanted to know how much input did Joss and the writing team have with regard to the fighting style on the show? Did they weigh in on the different characters and like how they would behave in battle or was it more like they would come to you and say, like, these characters are gonna fight, make them do it, make them - make it look cool.
Jeff: It's a little bit of both because it, it was with the writers, it was just, they would write the character, what the attitude and what type of character it is and what happens. But as far as choreography, usually like Joss would just say, "You know, it's up to you what you -" because he trusted me to go out and make it. And sometimes he would just write on the script just, "She Pruitt's the SOBs."
NOTES: [Kristin laughs.]
Jeff: And I would go out and make the [inaudible]. But that was with the vampires. When it's a certain character that's supposed to be a certain way, the writers who put in what that thing - Like the thing with the spike coming out of Adam's wrist, things like that. It's very specific what he supposed to be.
Kristin: Right.
Jeff: And then, but the choreography, however they fight is up to me. However, I would try to meet with Joss before each episode. We would have our regular production meetings, our location scouts, all of this stuff. And we would talk a little bit, but he would be talking to like a million different people. And then I would try to get alone time where it's just the two of us. And I would say, "Okay, what's character?" And then we would - and then I want to do this, this, and this. And like specifically, you know, I would ask for certain things like when we went to hell, I asked him to build a platform, cause I knew I could make a fight real quick and have the guys fly out of frame.
Sophia: But also there was often quite a lot, sometimes in certain scripts there was dialogue that was in with fights, you know, so it was an emotional thing. [Crosstalk.]
Kristin: Yeah.
Sophia: Yeah, there's certain emotions that would also play into the fight, which is always important because he's not just about fight, it's obviously about the story and telling the story of the characters and, and moving that story along as well while you're fighting. So…
Kristin: Yeah. Sophia, I want to turn to you for a second and hear if you have any stories about like your favorite, you know, you fought so many people on the show, and Layla from Instagram asked if you had like a favorite big bad to fight or a favorite, you know, it doesn't I guess even be a big bad, although I guess Buffy was usually fighting the big bads.
Sophia: I enjoyed fighting so many of the characters. But I suppose I would have to say my favorite would have been Faith.
Kristin: Ours, too. [Kristin laughs.]
Sophia: It has to be, because we had emotional battles.
Kristin: Yeah.
Sophia: And also oftentimes, you know, sometimes the fight sequences I did were short. It was a matter of one or two hits. Sometimes it was a group of people, you know, vamp, several vamps. But with Faith it was usually one-on-one and we… they were pivotal moments in the script. Do you know what I mean? So there was a story behind the fight that we were doing and so we would have a little bit more time. They would allow Jeff a little bit more time. So we'd have a bit more time to choreograph. We'd have a set that we will be able to work with. We could, we would work our choreography through those sets instead of just being planted, let's say, on the patch of grass in the graveyard. So our fights would, like in their apartment that went out to the rooftop that went off the rooftop. They traveled somewhere, which reminded me more about the Hong Kong fights and the style of fights that I was doing in Hong Kong. And so there was a lot, it was a bit more creative and like I said, we got a little bit more flow. And I loved Eliza and so - and I would have to say Faith was probably one of my favorites.
Kristin: We, we loved, I mean, season three for us, especially - Jenny and I are both queer women and the tension between Faith and Buffy is palpable.
Sophia: Right. It is!
Kristin: The fights are, I mean, their fights I think are my favorite fights in the whole series. So actually, yeah, we can talk maybe a little bit about the Buffy-Faith fights in a more expansive way.
Jeff: The first Buffy-Faith fight almost didn't happen because, um, you know, th there was a new director that day and everybody was saying, you know, "There's no time, there's no time to do a fight. There's no time to do fight." But I always used to, you know, I would meet with Joss before and talk about what we want. Well, this was one of the times I didn't get to meet with him.
Kristin: Oh, wow.
Jeff: And so I showed up on the set and the director and the DP and everybody was going, "No, no, no, it's going to do like three hits. Faith hits her, Buffy hits Faith, and then they get, they knock each other down and that's it. That's it. We don't have time for that." And so I said, "Yeah, but you know, I just talked to Joss and I think this is - Joss really wants this, let me show you." And so they were like, "Uh, well if-if-if Joss said…" And I said, "Well, yeah, yeah. Joss said." [Kristin laughs.]
Jeff: So that's how I got that fight in. So that first one, and then once they saw it, and then all of a sudden the director was like, "Oh, you're the action director, you're great!" And he was like, "Yeah, yeah, I really wanted to extend that fight." [Kristin laughs.] So it was like, "Yes, yes he did" and it was great. So, so then from then on it was a, it was Buffy and Faith fighting, and it was a lot of fun.
Sophia: Well, they had plans as well for their characters obviously, but yeah, there was a certain push as well to have them do more as far as action. Same with David, you know?
Kristin: Yeah.
Jeff: Well we'd had, you know, Kendra before that was the first two slayers fighting.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jeff: That was, that was a lot of fun. But then, so then Joss told me, he said, "I've got this new girl coming in and it's going to be another female Slayer coming into to fight with Buffy and it's going to be, you know, girl versus girl and everything. So - but it's important to explain to her about her character, what her character is that what it is. It makes her different from Buffy. And so he told me about her anger deep inside that she had. And she had some bad things that happened with men in the past, and she had anger toward men, all of this stuff." And then he said, "So I want you to go pick this girl up at our manager's house and bring her over to your house and teach her about this."
Kristin: Wow.
Jeff: And I said, "Okay." So I went and I picked up Eliza, brought her back to my placeand then we just practiced. It wasn't so much trying to teach her specific techniques, just certain techniques, cause I told her, "Don't worry, stunt doubles, will do all these high kicking and stuff. But it's more the in between the way you act." And so what I did was I gave her a, back then it was a VHS tape [Kristin laughs] of Bruce Lee in The Chinese Connection, you know, Fists of Fury. I said, "Look at his anger when he's going crazy." I said, "This is really over the top anger, right?" I said, "It feels hard for, for actors to do this. Like I know for Sarah, when I used to talk to her about it, she felt she wanted to be a little more calm as, as, as Buffy when you know, middle, like nonchalant."
Kristin: Mh-hmm.
Jeff: And I said, "But for Faith, this, what you see Bruce Lee doing is anger, crazy anger. This is what Josh is talking about." When we get on at the end of this fight scene, we're going to get on top of this man vampire and at the first fight scene that Buffy and Faith do together -
Kristin: Yes.
Jeff: -they're fighting vampires. So I said, "You start pounding him and then, and Buffy is going to be looking at you like, 'Wow,' you know, 'Let up.'" You know, and she's just beating because she's thinking about all these things that happened to her. So Eliza took the tape home and then when we came time to do that scene, which is another, if Buffy fans want a little bit of insight info, that vampire that she's pounding on in her very first fight scene with Buffy and Faith fighting vampires together -
Kristin: Yeah?
Jeff: That guy that she's pounding at the end is Dave Leitch who - he was one of the first stunt doubles for Spike that I had - but he's the director of John Wick and, Atomic Blonde, a nd… What's one he did recent?
Sophia: Deadpool.
Kristin: Yeah, Deadpool 2. And now he's going to, I hope, I hope he's going to be doing Enter the Dragon, so…
Sophia: But that was also what I loved about fighting Faith: her energy. The energy, the energy, you know? And cause I felt that energy in Hong Kong. Like the guys didn't hold up, hold back and you know. And so she was a strong, a strong woman, you know, and she had that energy and I love that, that kind of thing really. You know, it just brought up my level as well, you know.
Kristin: Yes!
Sophia: I felt like, "Oh, I've got to bring my game up to meet her energy." So we both brought our energy up. And that, I think, made it, you know…
Kristin: Do you think that part of that is because like you said in Hong Kong, like if you were fighting the men, they wouldn't hold back? But here the men that you would fight would typically hold back.
Sophia: Yeah, and some… yes.
Kristin: And Eliza and or like another woman -
Sophia: Other women would hold back slightly too, but that not, not now. [Sophia and Kristin laugh.] Things have changed massively. I mean, I would like, you know, you look at certain guys on the street, you wouldn't think twice that they could fight, but I wouldn't. No way. You just never know.
Kristin: Right, right.
Sophia:You know, everybody's fighting.
Kristin: Gosh, you're like the actual Buffy out there. [Sophia laughs. Kristin laughing.] Like, people don't realize if they're going to mess with you, who they're messing with. So many people asked about like, like favorites and most challenging or like most dangerous, you know, people want to know sort of like what your favorite stumps were to do. And also if you have any stories or memories of the hardest stunts to do or sons that went wrong during the filming of Buffy?
Sophia: I think most people know about the, the wrong the night. The night he proposed.
Jeff: Well, I, it made, I was sorry - I was sorry that it made the special effect coordinator mad at me, but I didn't mean for him to get mad at me. But they were doing a Buffy book and they asked me when they, the writer had heard that I had asked Sophia to marry me on the set. And what happened was when, one night, the special effects guys had rigged this net that was supposed to just lift her up about head height. And he was piling all of these sandbags on, on the thing. And I said, "Wow, this is like 300 pounds of sandbags he's gonna drop down and that's gonna ratchet Sophie up." I said, "That's way too much. I said, look, I could hold the rope with one hand and sit down and that will raise her up and trust me, this is - you don't need that much for it." And he said, "Okay. Alright. Alright." So he took the weights off, but then when I walked away, he put all the weights back on.
Sophia: And it rained. No, it rained as well.
Kristin: Oh. So it got even heavier.
Jeff: Right. And he's, he just, you know, it was one of those things where I looked very young back then and I was very, really a kid to them and he was like, "I'm not going to listen to this stump coordinator kid. I'm gonna - I know better than him." So he did it. And as soon as he released it, it shot her way past the camera crane. Wait, she came out of the net -
Kristin: Oh my God.
Jeff: -she would have been killed. But she got her foot -
Sophia: My elbow, no, it was my elbow.
Jeff: Yeah. And she was able to cling onto it so that when she came down, she's in it, she snapped her neck back and she sprained her neck.
Sophia: Horrible, horrible whiplash.
Jeff: She came this close to getting killed. And I just thought, "Oh my God." I said - you know, I didn't get mad. I didn't shout or anything. I said, "What did you do?" And the guy just sheepishly said, "Well, uh, maybe the, the sandbags got wet and yeah, maybe we shouldn't have used so many actually." I said, "Okay." But, that night is - I just took her up and I said, "Are you okay?" And she said, "Yeah." And I said, "Okay, then you're going to have to marry me."
Kristin: [Gasps] Oh my gosh! Wait, was that, that's what motivated the proposal?
Jeff: Yes.
Sophia: Yes! [Kristin laughs.]
Jeff: I just blurted it out, you know?
Kristin: Wow! Yeah.
Sophia: Cause I needed a moment for me. You know, I w you know, the gag was relatively simple and I was just meant to step on the net, and be caught in it, and I'd go up about 10 feet. But what happened was visually I stepped into the net and all of a sudden my head was thrust back. It was very violent. And then there was a crane about what, 30 feet?
Jeff: Yeah.
Sophia: About 30 feet high above it.
Jeff: Yeah, she went way past that.
Sophia: And so I went way past the camera, went past the tree top.
Kristin: Oh my God!
Sophia: Suddenly I was flailing my arms and there was nothing but air around me. I could see - There was a moment where I almost paused at the top and I could see the entire graveyard and all the crew beneath me. [Kristin exhales.] And I went, "Wait a minute, I'm not… where's the net? Where's the net?"
Jeff: Yeah cause she was only supposed to go ten feet, not way up there.
Sophia: And so I started flailing my arms and the net was next to me. And fortunately the squares in the net, they were large, you know. And I managed to hook my elbow in one of the, one of the pieces of it. But had it been a smaller net, I wouldn't have been able to get my elbow through it.
Kristin: And so you would have just fallen straight down?
Sophia: I would have just come straight out, straight out.
Kristin: So I mean that sounds like one of the more extreme things that happen, but for you in that situation, is there something that you do to like get back into it? I mean that's terrifying.
Sophia: No, I just asked for five minutes. I was shaking all over and I needed to do the shot again because my hat had come off. I was wearing a woolly cap and they said, "Well, we'd need to redo that shot," you know. And I said, well just, I said, "I'm fine, I'll do it. I've just, I'm shaking a bit right now. I need to calm down and let me just go to my trailer while you guys reset the gag and then just give me a moment." And so when I went to the trailer, he came into the trailer, proposed to me, and then I was like, "Oh, I don't know how I feel now. I feel - [Kristin laughs.] I was like, "Ahhh!"
Jeff: I made a YouTube channel and I just, just to throw a bunch of behind the scenes of Buffy stuff on there for the fans -
Kristin: Yeah!
Jeff: Cause I had all this behind the scenes video and one of the things on the second season video that I've made is, is that stunt with her and you can see her afterwards.
Kristin: We'll put that link in the, in the information to the YouTube channel sopeople can see. [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BLKDsmJjFq0]
Jeff: Okay, great! Yeah, yeah it's one thing that helps me to remember so many things that happen during those episodes because I have a lot of it behind the scenes and it jogs my memory.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jeff: A lot of people always come in about when they see those behind the scenes tapes, they realize how much work goes into every segment of the show. You know, every, everything that we did that, because when you just watch the show, it kind of flows by and you think -
Sophia: And we would, you know, we, we often worked almost seven days a week because when we were shooting one episode, we were gearing up at the same time prepping for the next episode. So sometimes on the weekend we would be in there trying to rehearse on the sets when they were empty so we could get a little bit a rehearsal time on the sets, you know?
Kristin: Yeah, yeah.
Jeff: Yeah. There was many, many times where I would come in just to rig something by myself and, because there was no time during the week, we were so busy, I would, I would be shooting one scene and then running out to do some pickup shots with another director for a previous show. Meanwhile, the director of the upcoming show would be pulling me to come over here and look at another set because we've got to go, I've got to plan this. So we'd have, for me, it was like every week was like three episodes going on. And it was kinda like that for Sarah too, because she would be - not only have to change, we were always changing the script. As we went along, new pages would come and said, "Okay, we dropped that scene that we were planning, forget about that. We're doing this now." Which for me to have to record that for the crew, it was like, "Oh God, I don't have to light that. You know, I'm going to go, this is easier to light." But for us, I have to do a whole brand new thing for Sarah and people that are carrying the show, they have to learn new dialogue, change the dialogue -
Sophia: Plus all of the PR that they have to do all of the, you know, I mean, and that was a lot, you know?
Kristin: Right, at the time and even past the series.
Sophia: And she always had interviews and places that she needed to go to and events that she needed to attend.
Kristin: Yeah.
Sophia: I mean she worked really, really, really hard. I love the Buffy crew.
Kristin: Yeah. And we hear that every person we talk to, whether it's an actor from the show or you know, whoever walks or works on the show really has like that they come away with. And I wonder like maybe as a more general question is sort of what it feels like to be such an integral part of something that has touched, and continues to touch the lives of so many people?
Sophia: Right. We'll you're literally living with these people. [Kristin laughs.] You know what I mean? I mean, we are together all the time.
Jeff: Well also - but at the time when things take off when they first take off on a show, because I've been lucky enough to be on different shows when they took off. And you don't realize it when you're working on the crew because you're just constantly working. I remember like with Power Rangers had a live show thing and so I had to get a go with some of the actors and some of the stunt people down to do a live thing. And the 405 was backed up and there was like parents were trying to bring their kids in and the LA was shut down because of people. We were like, "What for us? I mean, we're just doing our little show out in the, out in the park. What? Really?"
Kristin: Right.
Jeff: I didn't even realize people were watching us.
Sophia: Same thing for Buffy when we were shooting at the school, when we first -
Kristin: At Torrence.
Sophia: -at Torrence.
Jeff: Because Buffy, we had our own little, a backlot our own little thing. It was actually that, that's director I was telling you about? Who was the second AD on a second unit who became a director?
Kristin: [laughing] Yeah.
Jeff: Well, his dad actually built this place that became the Buffy set. And that was our little, our own private studio. There were no other shows going on. It was just us. And so we were in our own little world. And I remember the first time we thought something might come up the show because whenever I said to the stunt guys, I would go, "What are you working on?" "Oh, it's this Buffy the Vampire- " And then you go, "What? That movie?" And they said, "No, no, they're not doing another movie?" I said, "No, no, it's a TV show." And they were like, "Oh my God. They made a TV show out of that?" [Kristin laughs.] And it was like nobody believed in it.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jeff: And then I remember one day, I think it was Alison who came to the set and she went, "Gosh, did you see it? Did you see it?" And we were like, "What? What, What? What?" And she said, "There was a billboard and it had our faces on it! [Kristin laughs.] It's like, it's like we're on a real TV show!" "Wow. It's like a real team!"
Sophia: Yeah And then people, you know, gradually people would start to gather at, at Torrance to meet, to try to meet Sarah.
Kristin: Yeah, during the filming.
Jeff: I had a, we had gone, I remember we'd gone across the street talking about the show getting big a couple of times to like a convenience store. Right. And I remember David, actually, David, I admit way back, he tried to get on Power Rangers, you know -
Kristin: Oh, wow, yeah.
Jeff: He was a young actor starting out and I tried to help him. And then he remembered when I came to Buffy, he said, "Hey man, you tried to help me start in acting." And I said, "Well, how's it going with this?" And so we went across and we got some stuff in a convenience store, nothing, you know, like by David, we just walked out, like to the sidewalk and all of a sudden if people dropping by and they went, "[Gasps] It's an Angel!" And it was like, "Wow, dude, they know you. They know you." It was weird because all of a sudden it started getting to be where people would like before they wouldn't even look at you and now they would turn around and just like start pointing at you as if you don't see it. You know, they're just like, like you're an object. You know? It's like, "Wow. So that's what it's like to suddenly get famous." It's weird.
Kristin: And such a different time to… Because you're not as - Now I think we have like more communication with their fandoms and things.
Sophia: It's so different.
Kristin: Right. Whereas then it's sort of like 0 to 100.
Sophia: Yeah, it was 1 to 100. And also there was a, we didn't have phones that took pictures. We just had flip phones.
Kristin: Right, right.
Jeff: Yeah. But people just, I remember people would think that uh, the actors were like their characters, you know? And that was hilarious. [Kristin laughs.] I especially Nick, Nick has such a… he's has a great sense of humor, but he has a very colorful language sometimes with his jokes. [Kristin laughs.]
Sophia: And Seth!
Jeff: And Seth! I remember Nick making some, cracking, some jokes around us and some fans one time when we were out and then he, when he walked away, the fans were like, "Why is Xander acting like that? He doesn't talk that way. Why does he talk that way?" And it was like, "What?" "He's cursing." I was like…
Kristin: He's a person!
Jeff: "Well, words, people write the words. He's just reading the words the writers write. I mean, that's not him. He talks like this all the time." It's funny.
Sophia: And Boreanaz, too.
Jeff: Oh, yeah.
Sophia: They used to crack us up, Seth, Nick, and David.
Kristin: As a trio?
Sophia: Yeah, hilarious. Good on, good on a night when we were like waiting for a long set up and we're all tired.
Kristin: They'd keep you going?
Jeff: Boreanaz could not do this today, but one night we were doing this thing where, you know, I dropped the Angel double from the ceiling and he crashes on the floor. He's wrote, "He's naked." Right?
Kristin: Oh, yes, I remember this scene.
Jeff: But he's wearing the, he's wearing the little, they give you this thing that's like a little -
Sophia: Sock.
Jeff: -sock kind of thing. You put your stuff in and it's just a little string holding it up. It's flesh colored, the wardrobe people, the makeup people touch up and so he hits the ground and he's, he's doing his thing. And then it was like, "Okay, let's bring in David." And then David comes walking in - nothing on, man. [Kristin laughing.] He used to standing there, he's going, "Let's get this going!" And the whole crew was like, "Ah! Dude!"
Sophia: It was hilarious. But that's how David was. No inhibitions.
Jeff: He didn't care, man.
Kristin: [Laughing] Ugh, the stories that you all have!
Sophia: But it was great, memories. Hilarious, you know? We were like a family. It was like… [Crosstalk.]
Sophia: Just cracked us up. Just cracked us up.
Kristin: So before we, before we go, I could just sit here and talk to both of you for the next five days, but I won't do that. [Sophia and Jeff laugh.] I know you're both very good at working long hours, [Kristin laughing] but I'm not going to make you work long hours here. But somebody asked a question that I thought was reallyfun: Which is the simplest if there is, what's the simplest stunt move that we as non trained professionals could pull off for fun? Danielle from Instagram asked that question. And so I wonder if there are, I mean probably things that look simple to us are not, and maybe things that look super complicated to us are simpler. So is there something that we could do, something you could teach me, how to do?
Jeff: I used to come up with all of these elaborate methods of staking people that were like, you know - but then I would show Joss and talk about it. And then he would go, "Uh… no. That's not gonna happen." And then the reason was because Sarah, by the time we would get to it, Sarah would be so tired and we would have to go get her out of the trailer or something and say, "Okay, now I'm going to need you to do a backbend."
Kristin: Sure.
Jeff: And so what we did was we would make the staking simple. So when you see a, you see it's almost the same thing. It's either this way or it's this way. And that's the simplest thing. And he said, "Just keep it simple. Everybody will be happy. Make your elaborate stuff with Sophia. Then we'll do this shot with Sarah, but don't try to push her to do something ridiculous because we'll be here all night the rest of the night. Okay?"
Kristin: Right.
Jeff: "Okay." So the simplest thing is staking.
Kristin: Staking a vampire.
Jeff: Just take the pointy end [Kristin laughs] and we're going to go then go, [grunts] "Ooh!"
Kristin: Aim for the heart.
Jeff: -and freeze. Vampire goes out of frame. Then unfreeze. [Grunts] "Ooh!" Okay. [Kristin laughing.] Ready? Do your dialogue. Alright.
Kristin: Well listen, thank you both so much. You've spent such a wonderful amount of time with us, telling us, I mean, I can tell that there are stories upon stories upon stories that you have from all of your years working on the show. Something that's so many people wrote in, and Jenny and I of course feel the same is thank you. They said, "Please thank them for everything they did for the show."
Jeff and Sophia: Aww!
Kristin: And we thank you too because you really…
Sophia: Thank you. Thank you for, you know, still talking to us after all these years. Kind of surprised, you know, after all these years that people -
Kristin: People are watching it for the first time and it's great!
Jeff: Well, so many years had gone by when I, when I threw that behind the scenes footage on YouTube and I thought, "Well, I wonder if anybody will actually see this." And the next thing I know I was getting all these emails going, Oh my God, where did you get that?" Yeah.
Kristin: The fandom is really one of the most powerful fandoms out there. Truly.
Sophia: Yeah.
Jeff: In a way it's - it kind of reminds me of a Star Trek. I worked on the Star Trek shows and the same kind of feel where they know all about each character and the interrelationships between the characters. Same thing with Buffy. They, the fans, they know everything.
Sophia: Everything.
Jeff: Everything.
Sophia: It's amazing. So thank you.
Kristin: Oh yes. We've told people to come and visit you here at the coffee shop at The Federal. Is there anything else you want to tell people before we wrap today?
Sophia: No, just come on down to The Federal. We've got life. We're in Peachtree Corners in Atlanta and we have live music. It's a great atmosphere. We have the best coffee in town, and just come support us, and enjoy a good cup.
Kristin: Yes. It's so fun. So fun.
Jeff: And thank you. Thank you for watching Buffy.
Sophia: Yes, thank you.
Kristin: Thank you both again. [CHIME]
Kristin: Can you even handle how wonderful the two of these human beings are? They were so gracious to sit down with me and talk to me, to have me, to host me in their coffee shop. It's just - it was so wonderful. I hope you enjoyed. I hope you are even more excited now to round the bend to the end of season four with us next week, April 24th you will get the first part of our two part episode for "Restless" and May 1st you will get the second part. There's some fun interviews including an interview with David Wells. He plays the Cheese Man, so buckle up! It's going to be a really fun couple of weeks and thank you again, Sophia and Jeff. If you want to follow us, you can do so on Twitter and on Instagram at @bufferingcast. You can email us at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com you can visit Sophia and Jeff at the Federal Coffee Shop in Peachtree Corners and you can also see incredible behind the scenes videos from Jeff who has his own YouTube channel. Just Google "Jeff Pruitt YouTube." It's the first one that comes up. The link is also in the episode description today. You're all beautiful. I love your faces. So does Jenny. Oh my God. See ya next week! [CHIME]