Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 2.14: Innocence
Jenny: Hey everybody! This is Jenny and also Kristin.
Kristin: Hello!
Jenny: And we just have a couple things to tell you before we get started!
Kristin: We really do. In order to help support our show, we are going to need the help of some great advertisers. And in order to find those great advertisers, we need to learn a little bit more about you. So, if you will, please go to podsurvey.com/buffy and take a quick, anonymous survey that will help us get to know you a little better! That way we can show advertisers just how awesome our listeners are. Even if you've taken a podcast listeners survey with us before, this one is new and important. So we really need you to take it too. Plus, once you've completed the survey, you can enter to win a $100 Amazon gift card.
Jenny: Whaaat!
Kristin: I know, right? You can get so many things with that.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: Again, that's podsurvey.com/buffy. P-O-D-S-U-R-V-E-Y dot com slash - we all know how to spell Buffy.
Jenny: But it's B-U-F-F-Y.
Kristin: [Laughs.] Thank you Jenny.
Jenny: You're welcome.
Kristin: Also, we have a store where we sell shirts and pins that are full of Buffy love and patriarchy smashing. In fact we added a new "Smash the Demon Lizard Patriarchy" tank top just a few days ago. They've sold fast but we have a few left in stock and don't be sad - we will have more in stock soon. Heads up that all of our patrons get an alert about new merchandise before the masses and if you're a patron at the $10 level, you get 20% off all Buffering merch. To visit our store, head on over to bufferingthevampireslayer.com and click on Shop and if you want to come join our Patreon family, you can do that at patreon.com/bufferingcast.
Jenny: What's a tank top? That's like a t-shirt with no sleeves?
Kristin: You got it Jenny.
NOTES: [Intro music.]
Jenny: Hello and welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer: a podcast where we are watching and discussing every single episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer - even the painful ones - one at a time. I am Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: And I'm Kristin Russo and this week, uh, speaking of painful ones, we're talking about season two, episode 14, "Innocence." Stay tuned at the end of this podcast, every week, for an original song written by us, recapping the Buffy episode we are discussing.
Jenny: "Innocence" was written and directed by master of pain, Joss Whedon. It originally aired on January 20, 1998.
Kristin: Oh, and, this is the the one - this-this IMDB summary [laughs]. This is the one where Buffy and her friends battle the Judge and face unexpected danger from Angel, who has lost his soul after experiencing a moment of true happiness.
Jenny: I just -
Kristin: I just feel like -
Joanna Robinson: These IMDB things need to keep a few things back, don't you think?
Kristin: Right?!
NOTES: [Jenny laughs.]
Kristin: There's no poetry at all! And also who is talking right now? Who is -
Jenny: Oh my gosh! Well this is -
Kristin: Jenny -
Jenny: Also the one [Kristin laughs] where we are joined by a very special guest -
Joanna: No. Sorry! [Laughs.]
Jenny: [Laughs.] No, no, no!
NOTES: [Everyone laughs.]
Jenny: Um, well, now that everyone knows you're here it's gonna be even weirder for me to describe you as you listen. [Kristin laughs.] She writes Jon Snow conspiracy theories and also a lot of other stuff on vanityfair.com and she co-hosts some of my favourite podcasts, including but not limited to, Cast of Kings, Storm of Spoilers, Decoding Westworld and Gen Pop. Please welcome the great, and powerful, Joanna Robinson!
Kristin: Yeah!
Jenny: Woooooo! [Jenny and Kristin cheer.] Crowd noise!
Kristin: [Laughs.] Hi! Yeah! Crowd noise, seriously. [Cackles.] Well,welcome. Those are so many podcasts. How
Jenny: And that's not all of them.
Kristin: Like, how many -
Joanna: That's not all of them.
Kristin: How many hours in your day do you not podcast? [Jenny guffaws.]
Joanna: Guys, I don't want to stress you out but today I'm recording - well, you asked the reverse - but I will tell you, today I'm recording three podcasts. [Everyone laughs.] So…
Kristin: Wow.
Joanna: But don't tell the other ones - yours is the one I'm looking forward to most.
Kristin: Yesssss.
Jenny: Hell yeah!
Joanna: Because if anyone listens to any of those podcasts, they know that no matter what we're talking about, I will find a way to bring it back to Buffy 'cause Buffy is like, the most important pop cultural thing to me. So…
NOTES: [Kristin sighs.]
Jenny: Hell yeah.
Joanna: I'm so excited to be here! [Laughs.]
NOTES: [Jenny laughs.]
Kristin: Gosh, we're so excited to have you on this podcast. And, I mean, that's a great place to start, because you do have a very intimate, deep connection with Buffy. As many of us do. [Jenny chuckles.] But I would love to hear - we would love to hear - you know, your in to Buffy.
Joanna: Well, I started watching, like right when it aired, and I'm - I don't know - I've gotten to the age of life where like sometimes you don't like to talk about how old you are, but anyway. [Kristin laughs.] I'm as old as Buffy was. Like I was exactly Buffy's age when this show came out.
Kristin: Yeah.
Joanna: And so, yeah! So I started watching it like the first season and I didn't - well, I really liked the movie! - and so I was like, "okay, well I'll see what, you know, this looks like a terrible knockoff of that great Kristy Swanson Luke Perry joint! [Everyone laughs.] And I'll give it a try, WB." And then I really like - I mean the first season, we know, is not the show has ever been -
Jenny: Right.
Joanna: But I still liked it. And then - you know - became full on obsessed in the second season. And actually, I've told this story a lot - usually I tell it around when we're talking about the episode "Passions," but for a while, during season two of Buffy, I was not allowed to watch TV and I don't know why - I must have done something wrong and [Kristin laughs] this was my punishment. And so my friend Louani used to tape it, on a VHS tape -
Kristin: Oh yeah.
Jenny: Yeah.
Joanna: And bring it to school, and bring it to me. [Everyone laughs.] So that I could then take it home - and I was allowed to watch tapes but I wasn't allowed to watch TV, or something like that.
Jenny: Whaat?!
Joanna: I don't know.
Kristin: What an interesting -
Jenny: Weird rule!
Kristin: Yeah, that's an interesting punishment.
Joanna: I could watch tapes on the weekend or something, I don't know what it was. Anyway, and I couldn't record Buffy on my - I don't know! I don't know why [Kristin laughs] this was the system but this was the system, that she would tape it, bring it to me at school, and then I would go home and watch it, and I would come back and we would discuss it.
Kristin: Wow.
Joanna: And I remember when she brought me the tape for - well, I don't want to spoil like your listeners, and won't say anything - but there's an episode in the future that, like, she brought me the tape and she was literally crying.
Kristin: Oh!
Jenny: Oh my god.
Joanna: And she was like, "I can't talk to you at all about this until you see it."
Kristin: Oh no!
Joanna: And then - [laughs] and then I saw it, and I came back to school and I was crying, so -
Jenny: Oh no!
Joanna: Yeah, it was basically when I first understood what Joss Whedon is capable of, and that's not even this episode, which is in and of itself, its own crazy Joss Whedon-ness. But I remember you guys were talking, I think last week, about sort of the idea of the week by week cliffhanger, between Surprise and Innocence, or having to wait a week, and the fact that they did air them back to back on two different days. But I was like -
Jenny and Kristin: Yeah.
Joanna: But I wanted to - when you guys said that, [laughs] when I was listening to your podcast, you said that - I wanted to be like, "I had to wait
NOTES: [Jenny and Kristin laugh] until the VHS tape came to me, [everyone laughs] from my friend. Sooo, yeah."
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: Oh my god.
Joanna: Yeah.
Kristin: And you know what we learned, is that, not only did this episode air the day after, but it aired on January 20 and it aired right before the series premiere of Dawson's Creek.
Joanna: Buddy!
Kristin: Yeah.
Joanna: What a lead in! [Laughs.]
Kristin: [Laughs.] Right!? What a day! What a day for television, January 20th!
Joanna: Like good job, WB programmers! Because Buffy usually aired on Tuesday and so - I mean, I don't know if that's true for the whole run, but that's the night I always remember watching later episodes on. So if it aired on a Monday and a Tuesday night, like "Surprise" on Monday, and "Innocence" on Tuesday, then this was part of some like crazy WB strategy to gin up as much interest as possible to lead into their new teen show.
Kristin: Yeah!
Jenny: Yeah, they actually - this was them moving Buffy from Monday to Tuesday like that -
Joanna: Ohhh, okay.
Jenny: Surprise was the last time it aired on a Monday -
Joanna: Okay.
Jenny: And Innocence was the first time it aired on a Tuesday.
Joanna: And then it found its home - arright.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Dude. Yeah, we learned that because somebody emailed us, and was like, "this was the first episode I watched and I remember, it was because I was like tuning [laughs] into Dawson's Creek." [Jenny cackles, Kristin laughs.] Right?! "And caught Innocence" - imagine this being your in [Jenny cackles] to Buffy.
Jenny: Wooof.
Kristin: Whew.
Jenny: Ragged.
Kristin: Yeah.
Joanna: And you're like, "wow, this show is the best show on television!" [Everyone laughs.] Yeah.
Kristin: So yeah! So, let's - shall we jump into this episode?
Jenny: Hell yeah.
Joanna: Do it.
Kristin: There's so much to tackle.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: We start with Drusilla and I don't mean to spoil anything for anybody, but we're gonna get a jingle before this is up.
Joanna: Oh!
Kristin: I know where it's coming, but nobody else does.
Jenny: Wow, okay.
Kristin: [Laughs.] But yeah, so Drusilla has this vision of Angel. My biggest question about the pre-credits - well I have two, actually - but my biggest one is, who is the woman smoking the cigarette in the alley way? Like I wanna know her story, you know what I mean? [Laughs.]
Jenny: I think she's a singer of a band that plays at the Bronze, like once a month?
Kristin: Ohhhh.
Jenny: That's my best guess.
Kristin: That makes sense.
Joanna: Oh!
Kristin: On DJ night, no cover?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Yeah.
NOTES: [Joanna laughs, then Kristin joins in.]
Joanna: Like isn't that just the most brilliant - I mean, we're not there yet
Jenny: Ugh.
Joanna: But like that's just the most brilliant way to introduce that twist, with the flourish of smoke -
Jenny: [Yells] Oh my god!
Joanna: As if we needed more creepy-ness in that moment, and then you have it. Like ugh, it's so smart.
Kristin: Ahh, the smoke - there are few things sexier than smoking your cigarette out of the neck of a woman. [Everyone bursts into laughter.]
Jenny: Are we married?
Joanna: I mean, that blend of nicotine and platelets.
Kristin: Right!? [Jenny and Kristin laugh.]
Joanna: It's like - really hits you in the sweet spot.
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: But I thought this was funny too 'cause I feel like - I mean, this is an obvious thing - but like, smoking is associated with evil, and it was like, Angel has turned, he literally must have a cigarette. [Joanna bursts into laughter.] Like he can't even make it through his first kill without smoking a cigarette.
Jenny: Right, right! And he's smoking, you know, the next time we see him
Kristin: Yeah!
Jenny: When he's with Spike and Dru, as well.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: 'Cause smoking is bad.
Kristin: 'Cause smoking -
Jenny: Smoking kills. You actually see a lot of anti-smoking propaganda in Sunnydale High School over the course of this show.
Kristin: Yeah. Well I feel like the 90s is really when -
Jenny: Yeah, that was the time.
Kristin: Yeah, it was like, everyone thought cigarettes were good for you until the 90s, I think. Something like that.
Joanna: And when we get Angelus - I mean, once again, I don't mean to be skipping past things - when we get Angelus, is it my imag - I mean, I feel like this has always been true - my perception is that, it put more, like whiter foundation -
Kristin: Yeah.
Joanna: On David Boreanaz to make him look extra undead.
Jenny: Yes.
Joanna: When he's evil, like when he's Angelus.
Kristin: Yeah, his makeup like across the board is so different in the episode.
Jenny: Yeah, he's way paler, and then when he's in vamp face, it's like more developed.
Joanna: Yeah.
Jenny: This episode actually won an Emmy for makeup.
Joanna: Oh wow!
Kristin: Which like after you said that, I think that's when I really noticed his vamp face. 'Cause he can, like, move his face. You know, I remember the episode with Kendra when they were on the ice rink and they were kissing. It was like, hysterical to me 'cause his face - like he couldn't move his face. [Joanna laughs.] At all! [Kristin and Jenny laugh.] But now -
Joanna: Are you talking about, [in a Jamaican-ish accent] Kendra, the vampire slayer?
NOTES: [Everyone laughs.]
Kristin: Yeah!
Jenny: Oh my god, yes.
Kristin: Yeah, that's the one. That's her.
Joanna: I love this show. I'm so happy.
NOTES: [Everyone laughs.]
Kristin: But yeah. So, okay, so that's like, the pre-credits are super sexy. Smokin' outta necks.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Also! The whole like, "the pain is gone, I feel just fine."
Kristin: Yeahhh.
Jenny: Sort of like, indicating that the demon has like, re-inhabited this body, or now that the soul has been re-removed, that he is identifying like, human qualities as painful or -
Kristin: Right.
Joanna: Mhm.
Kristin: Well that's - yeah, I feel like that's a huge thing in the whole episode, of like, what is the real Angel, you know? Like they play with that so much, where he's like, "no, now I'm Angel." What is the real evil, or what is the real him? Is the real him the monster, is the real him the ensouled him?
Jenny: Right, right, right. Huuuh.
Joanna: This is the eternal question and the question the series will go on to examine. Does it ever really answer it? I say no.
NOTES: [Jenny or Kristin (?) gasps.]
Kristin: Yeah, I know.
NOTES: [Joanna laughs.]
Jenny: Mhm.
Kristin: Right? I don't think so either.
Joanna: I think - well I honestly think that if, you know, if it's Joss, he's probably gonna be like, "we are our monsters. We're both. We are our demons," or like whatever that -
Kristin: Right.
Joanna: That feels like a Joss thing to say.
Jenny: [Laughs.] It does.
Kristin: Yeah. Totally. [Laughs.]
Jenny: So
Kristin: Sorry, does anyone want to mention anything before the credits? I don't want to take anything away from anyone.
Jenny: No.
Joanna: No.
Jenny: I'm ready to go.
Joanna: Just in case, people forgot from last week, I just want to give you guys props for mentioning that Angel put on literally all of his clothes [everyone laughs] when he left his apartment. It's the craziest thing that's ever happened.
Jenny: Duuude! It's so much. It's so many articles.
Joanna: So many clothes. Like not just, "oh, I'll throw on pants and a shirt. But no, I gotta layer." [Kristin laughs.]
Jenny: Yo, it's like -
Joanna: And also lace up these shoes. I'm just saying.
Jenny: It's like, two socks [Joanna laughs], two shoes, pants, underwear, a t-shirt, a button down, and a coat.
Kristin: Yeah, there was -
Jenny: Right?
Kristin: There was something in his mind that told him, "you know what Angel? [Jenny laughs] You might need to get up, kill somebody, run into the dark. You might need to be prepared for this." [Kristin laughs.] He knew.
Joanna: I have a question: do you think it would've been a better scene if we, like, maybe just pants on, no shirts -
Kristin: Yes.
Joanna: Tattoo, shirtless, smoking a human, Angel.
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: Mhm.
Kristin: Is that even - Joanna, is that even a question… [Jenny laughs.]
Joanna: I think they should have gone shirtless. I think the layers are a mistake.
Kristin: Yeah…
Joanna: You know?
Jenny: I think the fact that they had the opportunity to very easily narratively keep David Boreanaz shirtless and they didn't do it is kind of weird.
Kristin: Perplexing.
Joanna: Yeah. It's unusual for them.
Kristin: Yep!
NOTES: [Everyone laughs.]
Joanna: Some unusual restraint.
NOTES: [Everyone laughs.]
Kristin: So, how about Buffy and her guilty walk of shame? In her mom's house.
Jenny: Amazing.
Kristin: I mean, her house, but it's very much her mom's house in this moment [laughs].
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Yeah, I just feel like she - I don't know, this really resonated for me. Like that thing where you've done something, like had sex, and you just feel like everyone can tell.
Jenny: Exactly!
Kristin: Right?
Jenny: [Yells] And Joyce can!
Kristin: And Joyce can! She's like -
Jenny: She doesn't know what she can tell.
Kristin: She doesn't finish her sentence. She's like, "I don't know, you just look… " And I wanna know. What was she gonna say? "You just look… "
Joanna: Right, because at the end, of the episode, she says, "you look the same to me."
Kristin: Yes!
Joanna: So…
Jenny: Right.
Joanna: Like at first, in my notes, I said, "Joyce thinks she looks different." And then I went back and went, "Joyce think she seems different." Like, you know.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Right! [Laughs.]
Joanna: Or just - Joyce isn't consistent with her observations. It's what I'm saying.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Right, right, right, right.
Kristin: Yeah. [Laughs.]
Jenny: Sure…
Kristin: Yeah, Joyce is confusing.
Jenny: Well, she's got a busy week at the gallery, probably.
Kristin: Yeah, she didn't even have time to make a cake for God's sake.
NOTES: [Laughs.]
Jenny: Yeah.
Joanna: Oh my god -
Jenny: Just two cupcakes?
Joanna: Store bought cupcakes.
Jenny: Store bought? [Jenny and Kristin laugh.]
Joanna: Come on.
Jenny: No, no, no, no, no.
Joanna: Come on Joyce. I know you're a frazzled single mom, but get it together. [Kristin laughs.] And I love how she's like, "what did you do for your birthday?" I'm like, "Joyce, you don't know what your daughter did for her birthday? Come on now." I mean.
Kristin: I know - they're like roommates.
Jenny: [Laughs.] Yeah!
Joanna: That gallery takes up too much of your time, Joyce.
NOTES: [Jenny, then Joanna both laugh.]
Joanna: The thing I need to mention here, and I warned you guys off air that I was going to talk about this, is like, what Buffy's wearing when she sneaks back into the house and what she was wearing before -
NOTES: [Kristin and Jenny laugh.]
Jenny: Mhm!
Joanna: Is my favourite Buffy article of clothing, which is these resplendent giraffe pants. [Kristin and Jenny laugh.] Of all the too short, tight, patterned pants - and she's got a few - these are by far my favourites. The giraffe pants [laughs]. You guys noted, you guys very smartly observed that she wears a lot of white in the last episode, so she's got cream beige on top or whatever, but [yells] the giraffe pants are just, of all of Buffy's outfits, that is my favourite.
Kristin: Ahh, yeah, that's - you wear white before you have sex, and then after, the traditional -
Jenny: Giraffe pants!
Kristin: The traditional dress indicates - [laughs]
Joanna: Yeah, the dawning of the giraffe pants, obviously.
Kristin: Yeah! [Laughs.]
Jenny: Right. Right. A beautiful tradition. [Kristin and Joanna laugh.]
Kristin: Yeah. And speaking of giraffe pants, because when we did talk off air, you were like, "uh, listen, I need to check in on Kate Leth. Is Kate Leth gonna mention-?" And we were like, "Kate Leth is not going to mention giraffe pants, but oh ho ho, how much she will mention." So maybe this is a great time to Kate and hear a Fashion Watch. We've missed you Kate!
Jenny: Yeah! [Jenny Owen Youngs performs the Buffy Fashion Watch opening jingle] It's time for our friend Kate To give you the Buffy fashion update
Kate: Well, welcome back everybody to Buffy Fashion Watch. I was gone for a spell. I was sick, and now I am back. I have so many thoughts about "Innocence." It is one of my favourite episodes; it always has been, but I promise I will stick to the fashion. I won't talk about how the episode is a complete game changer for me when I was like 12 years old and then again when I was 16, and how it means so much to me emotionally, and how I know almost every single word and how that bit with Buffy and her mom at the end almost makes me cry. I'm not gonna talk about that. I'm gonna talk about Drusilla. Drusilla wears two of her best outfits of the whole show in this episode, and I love them. They have her in these deep blood reds, which completely makes sense. She's kind of at the height of her power right now, but she has her first outfit, which is this silk gown with this wraparound sort of tulle scarf thing that she has going on in the intro, which is incredible. And then again later, that top - it's brocade, it's scalloped, it's got boning. I think the back is clasped all the way up and she's paired it with this long, silk - or maybe velvety… I'm not entirely sure- Burgundy skirt with these suede heels and she looks unbelievable. She's the total show stealer and there are a lot of good looks in this episode. I have to talk about Cordelia's. Firstly, her schoolgirl look in the opening is incredible. Her little yellow sweater set and her high waisted plaid skirt and her, probably very expensive, Mary Janes. Perfect. And then again later when she's supposed to look quote unquote, "cheap." She looks amazing in a shiny, silver trench coat, a studded headband and hoops. She pulls it off! She absolutely pulls it off. And she looks amazing. And Willow! Willow's look when she's in the van with Oz, and later at the mall, her fishtail braids, and her big sweater coat situation, and her overalls. She looks incredible. Buffy looks good in this episode. Ms. Calendar looks good in this episode, but it is such a moment for Willow and Cordelia and Drusilla that I have to give them their props. I love this episode and I love this show, so much. And if you made it through without crying, congratulations. I'll see you at the mall. I mean, not that mall, though, 'cause, [chuckles] yikes!
[Jenny Owen Youngs performs the Buffy Fashion Update closing jingle: "That was our friend Kate, she gave you the Buffy Fashion Update"]
Jenny: Thank you Kate Leth. Never a let down, always a take up.
Kristin: Mmmkay [laughs]. [Joanna laughs.]
Jenny: What a dream. So good to have you back.
Kristin: So, so Buffy gets through the Joyce lie. Barely. She's, I think she might be the worst liar…
Jenny: She is a horrendous liar!
Kristin: Besides Willow, on the show. You know? She just -
Jenny: Yeeeah.
Kristin: Like, you were at Willow's, you couldn't even remember that you were supposed to be at Willow's house? Come on. But then she goes to the library and she has to - the whole episode, or a good chunk of the episode, for her is like not being able to tell anyone what has happened because -
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: She's ashaa - she's… ahhh…
Jenny: It's like
Kristin: Ahhhh..
Jenny: Having sex for the first time is a special time in a young person's life, potentially.
Kristin: Yeah!
Jenny: Not that you have to have sex, but if you do, you know -
Kristin: Good job, Jenny!
Jenny: There's a lot of feelings to be had, [Joanna laughs] all at once…
Kristin: Yeah, she doesn't want her mom to know or … Giles.
Jenny: Dad.
Kristin: Dad. [Laughs.] Right. But she -
Joanna: Yeah, awww, library dad. But like, you know, if - I feel like if, if Angel hadn't, like, disappeared, and she weren't worried, she would have come and immediately told Willow. Like -
Kristin: Yeah, right?
Jenny: Yes.
Joanna: Especially since they had already talked about it, so like, she -
Jenny: Yes, all that seizing.
Joanna: So if she hadn't been so, like, fretful, I think she would have pulled Willow aside and been like, "oh my god, Willow."
Kristin: [Laughs.] Right.
Jenny: [Laughs.] Yeah.
Kristin: "I seized it."
Joanna: "Not to wig, buuut, I did this." [Everyone laughs.]
Kristin: Ohhh.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: So yeah, and then my next point of interest is when, you know, we find out we're going to research now, the Judge, because we found out that the Judge is assembled and don't worry because Jenny Calendar will go on the net - she's gonna go on the net.
Jenny: Classic Jenny Calendar move.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Straight to the net!
Kristin: Straight to the net and -
Jenny: Casts some bones.
Kristin: And then Jenny [Joanna laughs], 'cause Jenny [laughs], Jenny Calendar has a lottttt of really good moments or I don't know if good is the right word, but really Jenny Calendar moments in this episode because right after that, she's like, lurking in the hallway.
Joanna: Oh my god. Like, Jenny Calendar, like doing, going full Harriet the Spy is one of my favourite shots of this episode. [Kristin and Jenny laugh.] 'Cause [Joanna laughs], I feel like poor, that poor actress, like, I feel like, I think that they did not originally write Jenny Calendar to have this twist.
Kristin: Ohhhh.
Joanna: And so like, I think for her first few episodes, she was not playing this [Kristin laughs] and all of a sudden they're like, "okay just kidding you're here to spy on them." And so now, she's like [Jenny laughs]. Right?! Because there's no indication!
Kristin: No!
Jenny: None.
Joanna: They laid no track for this. You know, like, 'cause, you know, you didn't have to telegraph it, but there could have been scenes earlier in the season, where Jenny's like, trying to keep Buffy and Angel apart or like, you know, asking weird questions, you know. Something like that.
Kristin: Yeah.
Joanna: She never once did. But now she's like, "I'm gonna make up for lost time, [Kristin and Jenny laugh] I'm gonna lurk in the shadows, I'm ready. Now's my moment." So…
Jenny: She's going hard. She's got that music cue that's like" duh nuh nuhhh…" [Joanna laughs.]
Kristin: Ugh, yeah, and then last episode too! With the like driving Buffy, she's like, "I'll give you a riii… " [Jenny laughs.] Just like, everything she does is like, over the top. But good point, I hadn't thought about that, that like -
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: If this had been a plan all along they probably would have given us at least a little, a couple of clues, something - not nothin'.
Joanna: I feel like I remember that. I've got - as you guys do, I know - I have a lot of Buffy facts in my head and I feel like that's a true one, but maybe it's a made up one, so I'm not gonna like, die on that hill, but…
Kristin: Now we'll find out. Now that it's here, it's been given birth into theuniverse
Jenny: Yeah, don't worry, [Kristin laughs] people who are listening will -
Joanna: Oh!
Jenny: Know for sure. And they'll inform us.
Joanna: Someone is typing an email right now.
Jenny: Yes. [Everyone laughs.]
Kristin: Someone is pulled over in their car [Jenny laughs] to side of the road -
Joanna: Someone has gone to a post -
Jenny: "Dear Kristin and Jenny… "
Kristin: Yeah.
Joanna: Someone has gone to a post on thebronze.com and they're like, "well listen. [Jenny and Kristin laugh.] On this date, in the 90s, Joss wrote this on thebronze.com."
Jenny: Oh my god. Thebronze.com is an untapped resource.
Joanna: I have found some amazing things - 'cause the archives are all still there, so…
Jenny: Oh, mannn!
Joanna: Yeah.
Kristin: Good stuff. I'm rounding the bend to my favourite -
Jenny: Your fave.
Kristin: Line of Drusilla's but I don't want to cut you off. You look like you might have some -
Jenny: No no, go for it.
Kristin: It's all me? Okay well my favourite Drusilla line, maybe ever -
Joanna: Yeah.
Kristin: I don't know. It's hard to say with her. But, "I'm naming all the stars," and then, followed by, "I've named them all the same name, and there's terrible confusion." [Jenny laughs.] I love her so much! I just - this is where, this is my moment. There's a few in the episode, but this is where Drusilla gets her jingle. [Jenny Owen Youngs performs Drusilla's jingle] Drusilla, you fill up my heart with dread And still I'm led right back to you
Joanna: That's also my favourite Drusilla line ever. And that was the thing about watching this episode, which, I've seen this episode so many times, but when I was rewatching it, you know, in advance of talking about it with you guys, I was like," I think there's not a second wasted in this episode."
Kristin: Right.
Joanna: Every single second. 'Cause like all the other B and C and D plots are also, like, evolving.
Kristin: Yeah!
Joanna: All the Willow and Xander and Cordelia and Oz stuff is going along too, and then you've got Jenny and Giles stuff. Like you've got all this stuff going on. But this moment, like, when Dru said that line, I was like, "is my favourite Drusilla line also in this episode?" Like - [everyone laughs]
Jenny: Yeah.
Joanna: How is there room for the best Drusilla moment, also in this episode?
Kristin: Right?!
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: But it really, ahh…
Jenny: It's really unbelievable how much good stuff, per square inch. It's just -
Kristin: Yeah.
Joanna: Because, right after this, we get the beginning of, like, Angel's like, an awful person.
Jenny: Right.
Joanna: Angelus is. And so like, he's just being so awful -
Kristin: Yeah.
Joanna: To Spike. And Spike is so emasculated, and it's just amazing. And it all…
Jenny: I mean, like we've spent so many episodes developing a love for Angel so they really have to hit out of the park in terms of how despicable can we make this character in the span of one episode?
Kristin: Whew..
Jenny: Turns out, the most despicable.
Kristin: [Laughs.] Turns out they do a great, horrible job.
Joanna: And, this is also where you find out that David Boreanaz can act, like beg your pardon, but like seriously [laughs].
Jenny: Right!?
Joanna: You're like, "okay, you can smoulder. You were plucked from walking your dog on a street somewhere. Someone thought you looked good in a t-shirt. They were right. [Kristin and Jenny laugh.] That's fine you can wear necklaces, that's also fine. You can smoulder, but can you actually act?" But then like when he gets to do this, this episode, you're like, "okay! All right Boreanaz!"
Kristin and Jenny: Yeah!
Joanna: That's not necessarily been borne out for the rest of his career, but I would argue, this turn right here is like, peak, peak! Boreanaz.
Jenny: It's definitely like, uh hellooo.
Kristin: Yeah, I mean like the flick of of the cigarette, the pushing of the box, the like way he talks - like even the way he talks.
Jenny: The way he talks, his face acting, like -
Kristin: Yeah!
Jenny: He's crushing it.
Kristin: Pretty good job.
Jenny: And making us all feel terrible. [Kristin laughs.]
Joanna: That great Chorus Girl joke that he like enters with -
Jenny: Yeah! [Jenny and Kristin laugh.]
Joanna: You're like, "sarcastic Angel, where did you come from?" [Kristin laughs.]
Jenny: We've literally only seen him be like brooding and quiet and sad.
Joanna: Yeah.
Kristin: Ugh. And now we get these three…
Jenny: Best. Throuple.
Kristin: Riiiight!?
Jenny: Of the show to date. [Joanna laughs.]
Kristin: I know, that's our - I don't know if you have a nomination for the Sexual Tension Award of this episode, but my nomination and I think -
Jenny: Seconded!
Kristin: Yours too, is the throuple sexual tension. We've got Spike, Drusilla and Angel, just… they just wanna do it all day long, I think.
Jenny: For sure.
Kristin: Right?
Joanna: Yeeeah, for sexual tension, I have to agree with you. For like pure heartstrings, I gotta go with my boy Oz later, but like -
Kristin and Jenny: Oh, yeah!
Joanna: We'll do sexual tension belongs to the vamps, for sure. [Kristin laughs]
Kristin: Especially the moment where Spike is like, you know, "oh, the slayer, like really got you, blah blah blah," and he like growls and lungestowards Spike and then like kisses him on the forehead andJoanna: Yeah.
Kristin: And Spike, like, giggles. [Everyone laughs.] It's like -
Joanna: It's a lot. It's a lot.
Kristin: Yeah! It was really -
Joanna: And this is the best it gets then it only gets like more sour fromthere as Spike gets more jealous but like
Kristin: Ye - right.
Joanna: This - these are the these are the good times. [Kristin sighs.]
Jenny: The good times.
Kristin: Good times. [Laughs.]
Jenny: And, we like find out in this scene that Angel's ultimate plan is to destabilize Buffy. Like he doesn't want to kill her -
Kristin: Ughh.
Jenny: He wants -
Kristin: Back to being Angelus, you know? Like that's what he does.
Jenny: He wants to eviscerate her, emotionally.
Kristin: Yeah, "the only way you can kill this one is to love her," he says later…
Joanna: That's such a good line!
Kristin: Ugh!
Joanna: And also I love how Drusilla - Drusilla's so messed up, she's like, "[gasps] ohh, you want to mess with her the way you did with me!"
Jenny: Oh my god!
Joanna: Dru, that's not something to be real excited about.
Jenny: Yeah-ha-ha.
Kristin: Right? Ugh.
Joanna: Just remember who you're talking to. Yeah.
Kristin: Oh my god actually I think that maybe that exchange happens where I almost gave Dru a jingle, but I had to give it to her early - [Joanna chuckles]
Jenny: Oh when she pokes out the doll's eyes?
Joanna: Yes! [Laughs.]
Kristin: When she pokes out - yeah! [Jenny and Kristin laugh.]
Jenny: So good!
Kristin: It's so good! [Continues laughing.] It's so good. Um also I realized when I was writing down the sexual tension award that their initials spell out "sad." I just - you know [laughs].
Jenny: Spike, Angel and Dru. [Laughs.]
Joanna: Ohhh.
Kristin: It's really neither here nor there, but-
Jenny: Yeah [laughs].
Kristin: I was very excited when I noticed it. [Laughs.]
Jenny: Speaking of sexual tension, and things surrounding that, ohhhh boy! Xander and Cordelia have kind of an emotional exchange? And Cordelia's like jealous because she thinks that Xander wouldn't die for her [Kristin groans] the way he would die for Buffy - what a great way to express that. Ummmm…
Kristin: This is like the one-two punch for me for Cordelia. Like this is how I fall for Cordelia. She first says, "you wouldn't die for me" and then shescrunches her nose up!? I can't
Jenny: [Laughs.] Ohhhh yeah.
Kristin: Take it! I know that she's directing it at Xander, which is a bummer for me, but if I'm imagining it directed towards me, I'm in. I'm all in.
Joanna: [Laughs.] Um, before we get to this, like, uhh highly fraughttriangle situation
Kristin: Mhm.
Joanna: That happens in the stacks, I want to note one of my favourite douchebag Xander moments.
Kristin: Yesss.
Joanna: 'Cause this episode is really hard for me, because like I desp - I loved Xander when I watched it when I was 16 -
Kristin: Mhm.
Joanna: And then when I watched it later, I was like, "oh you're actually the worst. Okay." [Everyone laughs.] Oh, you're a bad person. I get it. [Kristin and Jenny continue laughing.] But um, you know, and you guys I know talk about this a lot on the show, but like, that scene where, you know, Buffy's talking to Willow and Buffy's - you can't hear Buffy's side but she's so upset and Willow's trying to talk her down, and Xander goes, "say hi for me!"
Kristin: Yes.
Joanna: And like Xander, you're the worst human. But this episode is hard because Xander gets to be right about Angel, at last.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Mhm.
Joanna: And that's a bummer! [Laughs.]
Jenny: Yes!
Joanna: Because like I don't like him to be right about anything, so…
Kristin: Right.
Joanna: Yeah.
Kristin: And that moment that you just talked about too, "say hi for me," is so shitty and what I love about it is that Willow, like she hangs up the phone and [chuckles] before they cut to the next scene, she's like, "say hi for me?"
Like she's
Jenny: Yeah! [Laughs.] She's not having it.
Kristin: Like, the fuck is wrong with you?
Joanna: Yeah.
Kristin: Which I appreciate.
Joanna: What is your damage? Exactly.
Kristin: Yeah. [Laughs.] Exactly. And this is, I think, I was talking to Jenny about this - it seems like the first episode that we've seen where Xander has really solved a huge problem on his own, using his own skill set, using his own brain without even really collaborating. I mean obviously he needs like Cordelia to help him in this particular way, but I think it's the first time that he's like, "I'm Xander, and I'm gonna do this thing."
Jenny: Yeah, "I've got an idea" - [Laughs.]
Joanna: And they lampshade that, right? By him being like, "oh I'm having a thought! I Oh! I'm having a plan!" Like basically, is [Kristin laughs] that what this feels like?! [Joanna laughs.]
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah!
Joanna: "Can I be useful for once?" [Everyone laughs.]
Kristin: Right, right.
Joanna: Yeah.
Kristin: Ohh, okay well, I don't want to do it. I don't want to talk about this moment with Willow. I really don't. It - like, it's like I know that the episode is sad 'cause Buffy and Angel, but this…
Jenny: But also this is gutting.
Kristin: It's so - I drew a broken heart in my notes.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: That's how much I was hurting. [Laughs.]
Joanna: Alyson Hannigan is like my - I don't know if this is your experience. My experience growing up is that [laughs] when Alyson
Hannigan cried, I cried. 'Cause she like
Jenny: Yess!
Kristin: Yeah.
Joanna: Like, it wasn't necessarily true with Buffy, like, because Sarah Michelle Gellar's a good crier but Alyson is a great crier.
Kristin: Mhm.
Jenny: Yeahhh!
Joanna: And you're just like, "oh please, darling Willow, don't be sad. Don't cry." [Laughs.]
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: Please!
Joanna: "I'm so sorry. We'll make it better." Yeah.
Kristin: And she has like three tears of sadness in this like one scene. Like she's like upset angry, and then she's upset upset and then she like gets to this final level of devastation when she says, you know, "it just means you'd rather be with someone you hate than be with me."
Jenny: Ughhh!
Kristin: Ughhh! God! I can't. I can't. And Jenny you talked before -
Jenny: So rough!
Kristin: About like Willow being used, precisely as -
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: As Joanna is saying, it worked on her.
Jenny: Writers - the writers talk all the time about, you know, that they discovered early on that the quickest way to the sort of like emotional jugular of the audience was hurting Willow.
Joanna: [Laughs.] Oh god!
Jenny: The loved to hurt Willow.
Joanna: It's true! [Kristin laughs.]
Jenny: But yeah -
Joanna: They read my Bronze.com post. [Everyone laughs.] Damnit. [Kristin and Jenny cackle.]
Jenny: Oh my god!
Kristin: What was your username, you think, on Bronze.com?
Joanna: I definitely did not post on Bronze.com, I only read. But I did - a Buffy message board, on actually a Canadian website -
Kristin: Oooh.
Joanna: Was my first message board ever that I joined.
Jenny: Wow.
Joanna: And actually my login name had nothing to do with Buffy, so…
Kristin: Oh..
Joanna: And it's kind of embarrassing. [Everyone laughs.]
Jenny: Aren't they all.
Kristin: We won't - we won't pull that one out of you, but - [Joanna laughs.]
Joanna: Thank you.
Kristin: And then, okay so we're just going from like sad to sad here because they have this scene with Willow and Xander that's like heartbreaking. And then right after it -
Jenny: Ohhh, nooo!
Kristin: Not to give us a moment's pause, is the scene between Angel and Buffy, which is -
Joanna: Well, first we see Buffy walk home alone at night -
Kristin: Right!
Joanna: To her house and then be like, "no." But - and also I wanted to mention, since you guys did such a good job of pointing like how she's in white in all the last episode, she's in black in this episode.
Kristin: Oh wow.
Jenny: Ohhhh, wow.
Joanna: And as she's walking home and probably when walks into Angel's apartment full of shoji screens, she [Kristin laughs] like a more minor key version of the Buffy Angel love theme plays. You're like, "oh I didn't know this could get more poignant, but here it is." [Laughs.]
Jenny: Ohh, yeah.
Kristin: Ohh.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Ohh..
Joanna: Even more dissonant. This is really, really hard, so yeah…
Kristin: [Sighs.] It's just too much -
Joanna: Yeah.
Kristin: For my heart.
Jenny: It's so rough.
Joanna: It's a lot.
Jenny: Also, [Kristin laughs] apparently they initially shot the scene between Buffy and Angel, either they shot it or it was supposed to take place in Buffy's house. Like she was supposed to be walking home and then going into her house -
Joanna: Ohhhh.
Jenny: And seeing Angel and later, when she's in the library and she saying like, "I should have known when I saw him at the house. He was acting different." So they actually -
Joanna: She did say that! She said "at the house" and I was like, "do you call that little sewer [Jenny and Kristin laugh] apartment the house?" [Everyone laughs.] What are you talking about?
Kristin: Right?
Joanna: Not enough shoji screens in the world could turn that into a house. I'm sorry, Buff.
Jenny: Like where do you find that subterranean, everything is cement apartment? Who is renting that? [Kristin and Joanna giggle.]
Kristin: Somebody from like 200 years ago. He's just kept the lease up. [Kristin and Jenny laugh.]
Jenny: Ohh, yeah.
Joanna: Willy the Snitch, maybe?
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: Yeah, yeah. [Jenny and Joanna laugh.] But I feel like, I mean, I feel like something that I want to talk about on like a larger scale with this episode is wha - how we feel about the fact that like Buffy has had sex for the first time and it has had like horrific consequences…
Jenny: We talked about this a little bit last week, about how like usually in horror movies the trope is "you have sex, you die."
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: In this world, you have sex, you die emotionally?
Kristin: Your boyfriend becomes abusive and yeah -
Joanna: Well, yeah. Like, and it's not just this show, right? It's like a network TV thing where like if teens have sex, something terrible has to happen to them.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: Mmm.
Joanna: Just like in horror movies but I'm inclined to give Buffy a little bit of a pass here only because they have other characters, spoiler alert, have sex later. Other characters - [Kristin laughs]
Jenny: Whaaaat!
Joanna: Have sex on this show and terrible things don't happen to them outside the norm of living on the Hellmouth. There aren't like direct bad consequences of later sex in the series.
Kristin: Yeah.
Joanna: So like I don't feel like this series is necessarily moralizing. In the end I do think that this, you know like, Joss's whole conceit is like, "what if the monsters in your high school were actual monsters?!" [Jenny and Joanna laugh.] And so I see it like that -
Kristin: Yeah.
Joanna: But I love the show. But like, [Kristin chuckles] you know. Every time Joss talks about it, I'm like, "I get it, it's a metaphor." [Kristin laughs.] So he's like "okay, so here's a scenario that a lot of teenage girls face, where you think you're dating the nice guy, and then you have sex with him and then he wants nothing to do with you anymore -"
Jenny: Mhm.
Joanna: "And he treats you like trash. And -"
Kristin: Right.
Joanna: "What if that happened but it's because [laughs] he's lost his soul? [Everyone laughs.] Because an ancient Romani curse says if he has an orgasm he can't -" anyway.
Jenny: Yes.
Joanna: So… [laughs]
Jenny: [Sings] Yes!
Joanna: This Romani curse has an orgasm clause, it's fine.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Right? [Continuous laughter from everyone.]
Joanna: But -
Kristin: Oh god yeah, that - that woman who wrote that curse, [Joanna laughs] she was really creative.
Jenny: She thought of everything.
Kristin: She was like, but if you have an orgasm, it's over, man! I actually -
Jenny: Does that mean, mmm -
Kristin: No, go ahead.
Jenny: I mean, I'm just wondering -
Kristin: Ohh, like can he not pleasure himself? Is that [Jenny hmms uncomfortably] what your question was?
Joanna: Well I think it's, I think it's supposed to be - I think the explanation around that is like, true love orga -
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Ahhh.
Joanna: True love plus orgasm.
Jenny: Orgasm equals -
Kristin: [Laughs.] That's the math.
Jenny: [Laughs.] Yeah. [Kristin cackles.]
Kristin: I had like -
Joanna: True love plus orgasm equals negative soul. So… [Everyone laughs.]
Jenny: Oh my god!
Kristin: Oh my god! Yeah somebody please listening just like make us a poster or something. [Joanna laughs.] That's good.
Jenny: [Laughs.] That's really good.
Kristin: Um, I had a practical question, too, about that - about the math, here with the soul loss [Jenny chuckles]. Is like - it doesn't seem to make sense to me if you're this woman, putting this curse on Angel because he's evil, and you're like, "I know what would hurt him the most - it would be to have a soul and he has to live with this pain." Shouldn't the like math have been that if he found happiness, he would just die? Like it seems weird that if like if he - the end result of this is that he'll go back to being the thing that he was when you cursed him in the first pla -? You know?
Jenny: This seems like a curse clause of convenience.
Kristin: [Laughs.] Yeah, yeah yeah.
Joanna: Yes.
Kristin: He got out on a loophole, I think. [Joanna and Kristin laugh.]
Joanna: Joss is like, "I know we put a Romani curse on him but what if there's… " [Everyone laughs.]
Jenny: Yeah.
Joanna: "Guys, bear with me."
Kristin: Right. [Everyone continues laughing.]
Joanna: "First of all, what if Jenny Calendar's a Romani spy? [Laughs.]
Kristin: Right.
Joanna: "I know, we didn't lay any track for it, but it's okay." [Kristin laughs.] "Second of all, guys, orgasm clause." [Everyone laughs.]
Kristin: Right.
Joanna: "All right? Let's do it." [Everyone laughs.]
Kristin: Ahhh. I was just gonna say, like back to this like you know, using monsters to really get in deep on these like high school arcs and stuff. This like moment between them, when he's like, "oh yeah, that was horrible. Like, you were horrible in bed and whatever" as like a device to bring her to her knees I just felt was - I mean it, like, gutted me -
Jenny: It's the quintessential, like, nightmare.
Kristin: Yeah!
Jenny: Your worst fears of what could happen in that situation.
Kristin: Right. You're like -
Jenny: In flesh.
Kristin: Doing this thing for the first time. You don't know what it is, or what you're supposed to do. No one has really properly taught you - and even if they have, you still don't know what the fuck you're doing and then - and I just like brought myself back to that time in like high school and college when it was like, oh my god what if I do something wrong? Ughhh. It's awful.
Joanna: Right, and he's much older and he has experience and you know and I gonna like -
Jenny: Much, much, much older! [Kristin and Joanna laugh.]
Joanna: Very, very, very much older! And then yeah, and then, you know, they've built up for a short season and then a half a season to them saying "I love you" to each other, and then in this scene [Jenny groans] when she goes "I love you" and he goes [Kristin groans] "love ya too!" And I'm like - [Kristin and Joanna groan.]
Jenny: Oh my god, and like the finger guns… [Joanna laughs.]
Kristin: Fuuuck, yeah.
Jenny: Even when he first - when she first sees him and like runs to him and hugs him, the way that he like hugs her back is -
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: [yells] -the worst!
Joanna: He's an evil genius.
Jenny: Yeah!
Joanna: We love you, Angelus. [Laughs.]
Kristin: Right?
Joanna: We're so happy you're here to cause pain [Kristin groans] and despair.
Kristin: Your logical brain wants to be like, "how do you not know, Buffy?" But like then when you add to it, like, thinking about how she's feeling and how vulnerable she's feeling, it's like, I guess that's why she like couldn't see that this is obviously not the same person. Uuuugh. And then "I'll call ya." I don't want to leave this scene without that [Jenny groans] last line. They were like, [Jenny groans] "I know what'll really put the nail in this coffin."
Joanna and Kristin: "I'll call ya."
Kristin: "I'll call ya." [Joanna laughs.]
Jenny: Now we have Jenny Calendar and good ol' Uncle Enyos, chattin' up - "what is vengeance? To everyone else, it's something that is like a trade, you know, tit for tat."
Kristin: Mhm.
Jenny: "But to us, it's like a living thing that passes through generations and we serve it. Forever." Which is like pretty intense.
Kristin: Yeah, I like this, Uncle Enyos speech.
Jenny: And we get like sort of the full skinny on like what - this scene is for us, you know, them explaining the mechanics of the curse and like what the loophole is.
Kristin: Mhm.
Jenny: And then later it gets explained for the crew.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: The Scoobies.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Separately.
Kristin: Yeah and I've - I kept forgetting that like because if I remember anything from this series, 'cause you know, I, having only seen it once and having the memory of like, a goldfish, don't really hold onto much, but this was like so rooted in me that I couldn't even - I didn't even remember that this was the first time you learned it. You know, to me, I was like, "this is the thing, like the thing that everyone knows about this show -"
Jenny: [Laughs.] Right.
Kristin: "Is this piece!"
Joanna: Yeah I guess maybe they - I mean, we wouldn't have known before because they never explained it and I don't think they explained it to Angel, as they were like, cursing him.
Jenny: [Laughs.] Right.
Joanna: [Laughs.] We curse you forever but PS, orgasm clause. [Everyone laughs.] But my friend Danielle - Danielle Nussbaum - who listens to your show. Hello Danielle.
Kristin: [Gasps.] Hi Danielle.
Jenny: Hi Danielle!
Joanna: [Laughs.] She is a huuuge Buffy fan and she has been trying to figure out like what Buffy tattoo she wants to get for a very long time. 'Cause these are the things you should take very seriously. If you get a fandom tattoo, something you like really care about - or any tattoo - you should - you really want to make sure that it is the right thing.
Kristin: Mhm.
Joanna: And like, you know, she's toying with - like, this is going to mean nothing to some of your listeners - but like a "5 by 5" tattoo or something like that, but like I think I would go with [laughs] "It is not justice we serve, it is vengeance." [Everyone laughs.]
Jenny: Yeah-ha-ha-ha-ha.
Kristin: Nice!
Joanna: That would be my Buff -
Jenny: Like a cross the shoulders. [laughs]
Joanna: Yes, yes. [Laughs.] That would be my Buffy tattoo.
Kristin: Ugh!
Joanna: In like, Gothic - "It is not justice we serve, it is vengeance." [Everyone continuously laughing.]
Jenny: Hell yeah!
Joanna: And someone would be like, "why do you have a Sons of Anarchy tattoo" or like what - [Everyone laughs]
Jenny: Yes!
Joanna: And then like, "actually, it's Buffy the Vampire Slayer." [Everyone laughs]
Kristin: Right, yeah.
Jenny: The other Sons of Anarchy.
Joanna: [Sarcastically] It's Uncle Enyos, obviously. [Everyone laughs]
Kristin: Um, wow. Something that struck me, and this is the next scene, so excuse me if I'm cutting anyone off, but the scene that happen between Willow and Xander that happens after the Uncle Enyos scene, where like Willow's heartbroken, right, and she comes back to the school and is like, you know what, "this is more important than my heartbreak."
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: And it like mirrors Buffy too. Like I just feel like, again, putting myself back in that place of like first heartbreak. There's no way I would have fought the Big Bad. Like, I wouldn't. I would have been like, "everybody, go fuck yourselves, I'm going to bed - like, I can't." Like, I-I just, I think it's incredible that both of them like pull out of these moments. Obviously Buffy's is - well, I mean, who am I to judge whose moment is more intense. But -
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: But they both pull out of this moment to fight even though they've just been, like, knocked, I mean, I don't know, I just -
Jenny: Crushed.
Kristin: Yeah! Like that - losing your first love, seeing your first love do - it's just, you don't stand up from that. And they do!
Jenny: The thing is, like, I get that like Willow is hurt, but I just feel like her take on Cordelia is a little extreme.
Kristin: Like what do you mean, like the Hating Cordelia Club? The whole spiel?
Jenny: Well like I get like, I get like hating Cordelia Club - very funny, love it. "You were the treasurer." [Yells] What? Who?
Joanna: What I -
Jenny: Was taking -
Joanna: Xander, the responsibility of being treasurer? No.
Jenny: Well - [laughs]
Joanna: It would be what's his name who dies in the first episode, obviously. [Kristin laughs.]
Jenny: Jesse. [Joanna laughs.] Sweet, sweet Jesse. [Everyone laughs]
Joanna: It would be like Willow, president, Jesse, all the other offices, [Kristin laughs] Xander, nothing for you.
Jenny: Just - Xander gets the snacks.
Joanna: Nothing for Gretchen Weiners, bye, Xander. [Everyone laughs]
Jenny: But I love how Willow says, "you have gross emotional problems," which incidentally is the name of my forthcoming album. [Joanna and Kristin laugh.] Look for my album, "Gross Emotional Problems." [Laughs] Coming soon.
Joanna: I guess though if we remember, like, the first episode of season one and how like how awful Cordelia is to Willow in that episode.
Jenny: Yes.
Joanna: And like we all like Cordelia so much - we do. But like, that's because the show has allowed us to see this growth. But like presumably she'd been bullying Willow in that fashion for a long time before that, so -
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Right.
Joanna: You know, that's something - the softer sides of Sears is what I think about when she's says stuff like that.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Totally and I think she's just so heightened. It was - it's such a gut punch that I feel like you - you're - what you're saying is like -
Jenny: You say the worst thing you could ever say.
Kristin: Yeah! You like, dig down deep for like the absolute worst thing you could possibly say, which - I mean, which with Willow is still, not that bad
[laughs]. You know what I mean, like even for
Jenny: [Laughs.] Yeah. But over the course of this conversation, Xanderstarts to have an idea - the first idea he's ever had
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: What a day.
Kristin: It's a good day for Xander.
Jenny: What a day for Xander. And that idea turns into a plan, but then -
Kristin: Ugh.
Kristin and Jenny: The lights go out. [Joanna laughs.]
Jenny: In Sunnydale. [Kristin and Joanna laugh.] Ugh, ugh!
Kristin: This is like - I know, there's like - I don't, there's just so many fucking things in this episode that made me so sad. And this is another one, like how they - how they've grown to trust Angel so much that like Willow in the dark is like, "oh, it's just Angel. Like nothing bad could possibly happen because Angel is here and it's fine." It just, it just broke me.
Joanna: I mean, sure! He sounds like he has rocks in his mouth, I don'tknow [Kristin laughs] why but it's fine
Jenny: [Laughs] Riiight!
Joanna: This is fine! This is all fine.
Kristin: [Laughs.] He's - yeah! He smells like a walking chimney [Joannaand Jenny laugh], butJoanna: This is all fine, guys, this is fine.
Kristin: So yeah, and then Xander, there's like this moment with Xanderwhere it looks like he has, you know, some sense of like, Spidey-sense
Jenny: Yeahhh!
Kristin: That something's going on. 'Cause he like walks away and he stops without cause for stopping -
Joanna: That's what I'm saying! He gets to be right and I don't like it at all… [Joanna and Kristin laugh.]
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Mmmm.
Kristin: Yeah. If I could take away anything from this episode - well, first it would be Angel losing his soul -
Jenny: [Laughs.] Yeah!
Kristin: I would take that away, [Joanna laughs] but then second, second thing would be Xander being right, I would take that away as well. But yeah, so, right, Jenny Calendar comes out with the crucifix she has prepared for this moment.
Jenny: Of course.
Kristin: She was lurking in the corner with it for hours, I'm sure -
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: [Laughs.] Looking suspicious. [Everyone laughs]
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: And, you know, and kind of like helps ricochet - I mean she helps the situation in terms of like having the crucifix, 'cause it's how Xander gets Willow but really the moment is like when Buffy is like, "I'm fuckin' right here and I'm gonna fight you."
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Blll -
Joanna: That too, but also Xander does have - I mean I will give, grudgingly give him credit, and again later, when his plan is good. But like you know, he grabs Jenny's crucifix and sneaks up behind Xander [should mean Angel] to go rescue Willow so we have to give him some grudging credit for that heroic moment.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Yeah, and a good move - it's like, he really does like ricochet Willow off of Angel [laughs.]
Jenny: [Laughs.] Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: It's like a three-point move, for sure.
Joanna: Yeah. [Everyone laughs.]
Kristin: And then, oh, and
Jenny: Oh wow.
Kristin: I mean, whatever, there's a lot that happens in this scene but my personal favorite is the way that Angel exits the scene. Where he like [laughs], the doors, like, are closing and he like backs away looking forward, and then moves to the side [Jenny laughs] looking forward [laughs]. Like he
[cackles] it's, it's really, really special! This
Jenny: Like a monster in like a haunted house ride, or something? [Joanna laughs.] You know?
Kristin: Yeah! Like he's on - like he's on a track -
Jenny: Yeah, exactly.
Kristin: Right. [Everyone laughs.]
Joanna: I didn't notice that. I have to now rewatch that, like -
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Ahhh, it's good.
Jenny: It's definitely worth going back for.
Joanna: Okay.
Kristin: Yeah, it's a good - it's a really good exit. [Everyone continuously laughs.] And so then, and then we go back to the library, right?
Jenny: Yep, yep!
Kristin: Because this is
Jenny: Because Jenny Calendar's all like, "Rupert, [Kristin laughs] don't talk like that in front of the kids."
Kristin: "Not in front of the kids, Rupert." [Jenny laughs.]
Jenny: Wha-ha-hat?
Kristin: Yeah. But that -
Jenny: Those kids have seen so much more intense shit than Jenny Calendar has [laughs].
Kristin: I know. She's confused. Her -
Jenny: She's all over the place!
Kristin: Joanna, explained it. She's confused - her whole plot line has just changed -
Jenny: [Laughs.] Yeah!
Kristin: Right before her eyes. [Everyone laughs.] She doesn't know -
Jenny: "Who am I?"
Kristin: She's lost her - yeah.
Joanna: She's like, "that's not where I dangle it - I don't know what to tell you." [Everyone bursts into laughter.] Also, we have to, like, shoutout to like, the sad, sad shot of Buffy just like fingering her Claddagh ring, like…
Kristin: Yeahhh.
Jenny: Ohh…
Joanna: Like, desolate, in the depths of despair - so sad. And then Willow, who's sharp as a tack as always, doesn't get to the bottom of the case but she's like, "how did you know there was something wrong with Angel?"
Jenny: Yeah.
Joanna: Just because he sounded like he rocks in his mouth.
Jenny: Mmm. [Jenny and Kristin laugh.]
Joanna: You know, and Jenny's like, "I see in the dark, guys! It's fine."
Jenny: Yeah!
Joanna: "This is fine!" [Everyone laughs.]
Kristin: Right, right. Yeah and then Willow has her second, like, moment of reckoning when -
Jenny: After Giles is like, "oh there must have been an inciting incident!" And Buffy's like, "… gotta go!"
Kristin: Yeah! And then it's that meme with the like lady thinking with math symbols [Jenny laughs] and it ends with Willow and math equation of one minus one soul. [Laughs.]
Joanna: Yes.
Jenny: "Giles, shut up."
Kristin: I love that line.
Jenny: Ugh!
Joanna: It's so good.
Jenny: So good.
Joanna: She delivers it so well too.
Jenny: Yeahh.
Kristin: Ughh, right? Just perfectly and I love this like piece of Willow where - because you know that last time we saw Willow talking about sex she just said like "wow" a bunch of times -
Jenny: [Laughs.] Yeah!
Kristin: And was like super giddy about it. But I like this moment because it's like, yeah she, of course she's like excited and like "oh my god, this is a thing that like, we haven't done, and you're doing it for the first time!" But then like has the depth of knowledge and understanding to be like, "wow, something horr-like, this is horrible. Like this is something that, no Giles, you can't understand." You know, and Willow can. Ugh, I love her.
Joanna: Yeah, and Jenny seems to get it too. I feel like both Jenny and Willow are like, "cool it, Giles."
Kristin: Yeah.
Joanna: Like, come on buddy.
Jenny: Mhmm!
Joanna: I like the whole exchange of like Xander drafting Cordelia. I don't like him telling to wear something trashy… er.
Kristin: Right.
Joanna: Like what the hell Xander, shut the fuck up.
Kristin: Also she's wearing
Jenny: [Yells] I mean she's wearing like a sweater set! LikeJoanna: [Laughs.] Like a school girl outfit. Like and not even like short of a skirt.
Kristin: Right.
Joanna: And then Willow saying, "I'll call Oz. He has a van." [Kristin laughs.] "This is fine, I can play this game."
Kristin: Yeah, right? [Laughs.] "My boyfriend's van is bigger than your… girlfriend's - what?" [Everyone laughs.]
Joanna: Nuh - "-dad's car."
Jenny: Yes, there it is. Quincy. [Joanna and Kristin laugh.]
Kristin: Yeah, exactly. Ugh okay, then, sorry, we've already talked about, "to kill this girl you have to love her" but I think it bears…
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah!
Kristin: Repeating
Jenny: Using psychological damage as opposed to physical force?
Kristin: Yeah, and then it's just followed by this like sobbing scene where she's like curled up in her bed and I just, the way that it's edited and like that they give it the time for the closer pan and then the farther away pan. I just felt like that was really important 'cause it's like this grief - this deep, bodily grieving that she's going through, and they don't make it, they don't make it less than that! You know?
Joanna: Yeah.
Kristin: Like they gave it the room that it needed.
Jenny: Then she cries herself to sleep.
Joanna: She takes off the Claddagh ring, ugh, cries herself to sleep. I just want to point, I just want to glom onto your conversation you had last weekand say I also had a Claddagh ring in high school
Jenny: Yes!
Joanna: Probably because of this show, I would guess.
Jenny: Hell yeah! [Everyone laughs.]
Joanna: And then when she falls asleep she dreams of sexy times and I think we get more of the sexy times scenes in this episode -
Kristin: Ohh yeah.
Joanna: I mean, it's still very artfully shot, but like -
Jenny: Mmm.
Joanna: More than we did in the actual losing the virginity scene in the first place, right?
Kristin: Yeah, yeah, oh yeah. That's true.
Jenny: Totally.
Joanna: Yeah.
Kristin: Yeah, way more. And also way more Claddagh ring. [Everyone laughs.] That was something that I -
Jenny: Lotsa Claddagh!
Joanna: We went like full on.
Kristin: A lotta Claddagh. [Everyone laughing.]
Joanna: A lotta Claddagh on Claddagh action. Yeah. [Jenny laughs.]
Kristin: I said, when we were wa - [laughs]. When we were watching it I was like, "oh, there's so much Claddagh ring!" And Jenny was like, "well Kristin, there's two of them." [Everyone laughs.] As if that -
Jenny: How it could be either in any given shot?
Kristin: [Laughs.] Yeah, so…
Jenny: So, divide those Claddagh shots by two please. [Kristin laughs.]
Joanna: Yeah. Boreanaz just has like really delicate hands. You don't know what you're looking at. [Jenny laughs.]
Kristin: Right! You - [everyone laughs.] Oh, so sexy time - and yeah, I mean, we got nothing in "Surprise" really. It was like the lights went out and that was it.
Joanna: Oh, okay.
Kristin: So thisJoanna: Oh, so this is the scene. Yeah, I remember them doing like, 'cause Joss directed this episode and I remember like the sw - I've always thought about how like the swinging light that they use in this, right? [Jenny and Kristin hum in agreement.] 'Cause it's really effective. And -
Jenny: It's very dreamlike.
Kristin and Joanna: Yeah.
Kristin: It reminded me -
Joanna: You just get a little like, fluster producing noises [laughs], right? [Kristin and Jenny laugh.]
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Right. I'm gonna…
Joanna: And your teen self is like, "oh my goodness!"
Kristin: Yeah, just - I want to make sure that everyone listening to this gets to experience what I experienced, both times watching this sex scene with Jenny. Like, in case you're like, "oh wow, it's a sexy scene. You two are married. Maybe you like at least are normal people next to each other." Jenny looks like a turtle [Joanna laughs] with her, like, head pulled back like 40 feet, and her mouth like in one line, where she's like, caught - [Jenny laughs] are you, I mean, you should talk about what you're feeling, but it looks like you're horrified. Especially when there's a moan. When there's a moan, forget it. Her head - you think her head's back as far as it can go and then it just shoots back.
Jenny: There are just like a lot, it's like very ASMR… Like, such close [Kristin laughs], tiny mouth noises. Like, I… just feel like - ahhh!
Joanna: Are you saying all sex scenes or this specific sex scene?
Jenny: No no no, this specific -
Joanna: Provokes a turtle effect on you. [Kristin laughs.]
Jenny: This specific sex scene. No thank you. I mean, great, great job everyone but also like, ahhhhhh!
Kristin: Yeah, yeah, it turns you into a turtle!
Jenny: Umm, cool.
Kristin: The swinging light, I'm glad you said that because I didn't know what to call that, but that effect reminds me too of the - do you remember the sex scene in "But I'm a Cheerleader," of all things. But like. [Joanna giggles.]
Jenny: Oh yeah!
Kristin: Yeah! It's very similar. It's like light kind of moving around and you don't really see anything, but you feel like you're seeing things, you know?
Jenny: Right.
Joanna: Yeah. You see - that's, I mean this scene really does not show you that much but, you know, as you guys were saying, the audio [laughs] does a lot of the showing for you.
Kristin: [Laughs.] Yeah.
Jenny: [Uncomfortably] Mmm…
Joanna: And then yeah, it's mostly crumpled sheets and Claddagh rings [Jenny and Kristin laugh] and swinging lights and gentle moans. You're like, okay -
Jenny: Crumpled sheets and Claddagh rings! [Everyone laughing.]
Kristin: I know you've already called your next album title, but can the one after that be called -
Jenny: Yes! "Crumpled Sheets and Claddagh Rings," of course! [Kristin cackles. Jenny laughs.]
Kristin: Ohh. So then the sexy dream turns to this like classic horrorlighting, where it's like so bright
Jenny: So blown out.
Kristin: And Angel's in the daylight, which of course, is not possible. And he tells Buffy, you know, she has to look - what does he say, specifically?
Jenny: "You have to know where to look."
Joanna: "You have to know what to see."
Jenny: Ohhh, whoops! "You have to know what to see."
Kristin: There it is. Ugh, thank god. See, three brains.
Jenny: Whew!
Kristin: It takes three.
Jenny: We did it.
Kristin: I had nothing, you had part of it, Joanna had everything. [Kristin and Jenny laugh.]
Jenny: Really it just took one brain.
Kristin: And then she fucking wakes up. This is - I can't.
Jenny: Yo! She wakes up. I'm sorry - I have to -
Kristin: Please.
Jenny: Just butt in. She wakes up not on her doily pillow -
Kristin: No.
Jenny: She wakes up on a leopard pillow. Do you think that the recurring animal prints in this episode [Joanna gasps] have anything to do with the fact that she has had sex?
Kristin: [Laughs.] Yeah. [Joanna purrs/growls.] [Kristin and Jenny cackle.]
Jenny: Woo!
Kristin: Yes, yes, yes.
Joanna: Do you think Joyce came in and like tucked a leopard print pillow under her like -
Jenny: [Jenny and Kristin laugh.] Oh my god!
Joanna: [Laughs.] Joyce came home from the gallery and she's like, "it's clear that my daughter's been crying and is fully clothed on top of her bedsheets [Jenny and Kristin laugh]. Let me tuck this cheetah print [laughs] -
Jenny: Yes!
Joanna: Pillow under under her head.
Kristin: [Laughs.] Yes. She was like, "hmm, Buffy seems like she's gone through a rite of passage [Joanna laughs]. Perhaps she's boned her vampire boyfriend -"
Jenny: [Laughs.] What?!
Kristin: "I know what she needs."
Jenny: The traditional gift for that. [Everyone laughs.]
Kristin: Yeah.
Joanna: It's of our people. It's fine. [Jenny and Kristin laugh.]
Kristin: So then she takes her head off of that animal print pillow and like
Jenny: Wooo!
Kristin: First of all, something I didn't notice when we watched it the first time, is that she puts the fucking crucifix on -
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: The Angel crucifix that she - that made her upset, she like has it around her neck. She storms into the school. [Laughs.]
Jenny: There's a -
Joanna: Wearing the cutest, flimsiest top of all time [Jenny laughs.] She'slike tearing through the halls
Kristin: Right?!
Joanna: In a barely there cami and it's like, so cute and… yeah.
Kristin: Ugh. And class is happening - a class in happening. She doesn't care. She just walk - I feel like even though I know her hand wasn't extended in front of her in like a grip motion, [Joanna laughs], the whole time, like [Jenny laughs] I picture it like that, you know?
Joanna: Yes.
Kristin: Just straight for the jugular on Jenny Calendar. Throws her on the desk, to a cheer, in case you're wondering what was happening in our living room at that moment.
Jenny: Yeahhh. [Joanna laughs.]
Kristin: Jenny and I both - [laughs] we both cheered for her knocking Jenny Calendar down. Not that I want Jenny Cal - well, I kinda want her to get knocked down, but whatever.
Jenny: I mean…
Kristin: Just a - I mean, I understand.
Jenny: It's situational!
Kristin: Right. It's situational.
Joanna: A little retribution.
Kristin: Yeah!
Joanna: She's owed that. Yeah.
Kristin: And to Jenny Calendar's credit, you know, she immediately owns up to it. She doesn't try like any of her sneaky hallway lurking shit anymore.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: She's like, "okay, okay fine. [laughs] You're the slayer, you will literally snap my bones into tiny pieces."
Joanna: "I-I didn't know… " [Jenny laughs.] This moment for Giles too where - okay. [Jenny sighs.] So my ranking of them - if you hurt them, I'm hurt, goes Willow 1, Giles 2.
Jenny and Kristin: Mmmm.
Joanna: So like Giles being like, "Willow - I mean, Buffy, stop beating up my girlfriend!"
Jenny and Kristin: Ohhh.
Joanna: [Laughs.] "She's a cyber pagan! She's the best, come on!"
Jenny: Yeah. [Everyone laughs.]
Joanna: And then like Jenny admits it, and he's like, crumpled… sheets of his heart!
Jenny: Oh my god!
Joanna: You know what I mean? It's just so sad.
Jenny: This is like a classic thing that happens - I mean this is like a total "She's All That," where like somebody - you find something out about somebody you're dating that indicates that it's possible that your relationship was never even real to begin with.
Kristin: Right, right. The whole thing could have been a lie. Could have been a dare.
Joanna: "Was it ever real?! Was it ever true?" [Laughs.]
Jenny: [Yells.] Exactly!
Kristin: Right!
Joanna: Yeah.
Kristin: And poor Giles, and then to Giles's credit, like he gets this - it's likeeverybody's heart is broken
Jenny: Mhm.
Kristin: In this episode. At different levels, but Giles too, like he does not miss a beat. He's like, "this hurts me, and yet I know what I need to do, like I need to stand by Buffy. I need to protect Buffy, I need to let Buffy I know I respect her. Like he [sighs], even though he's hurting.
Joanna: And then Buffy has this thing - and this is like a recurring thing that the show explores of like, guilt and shame over being a girl, or being inlove and all the sort of stuff like that
Kristin: Yeah.
Joanna: And so Buffy says, "so it was me. I did it." And like, you know, for her to take all that on herself.
Jenny: Mmm.
Joanna: When obviously no, it wasn't you - you didn't do it. Like come on,poor Buff. But like
Kristin: Right.
Joanna: That's her interpretation of the facts, so…
Jenny: Mhm.
Kristin: Right. Of like, self blaming -
Joanna: Yeah.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: And also, like that attachment - I mean I think that's just like the line, right of like pleasure to… Like, I can't - if I'm going to experience pleasure, it must also result in like something not good.
Joanna: Yeah.
Kristin: Which is something that I think, like, so many walk with, you know? Like there's just so much conflict and, like, shame and weirdness placed around sex, especially as a woman -
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: That I - you know, that again -
Joanna: Yeah.
Kristin: There goes Joss, down his rabbit hole.
Jenny: Yeeeah. And also Buffy has to sort of like, in learning what exactly is going on, and what has happened to make Angel… Angelus.
Kristin: Mhm.
Jenny: She has to indicate, essentially, to her Watcher dad -
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: That she had sex.
Kristin: Right. Right, which adds like a whole 'nother level of -
Jenny: Which, whoever wants to -
Kristin: Nobody wants to.
Jenny: No.
Kristin: Ugh! But if - I mean, he couldn't possibly - I know I'm skipping ahead but like he couldn't possibly deal with it better.
Joanna: Ugh, god! The end. But like -
Jenny: Right!? [Jenny and Kristin laugh.]
Joanna: Yeah, Giles is basically - I don't think he actually cleans his glasses in this scene, but he's like inside -
Jenny: Yes! [Jenny and Kristin cackle.]
Joanna: Inside, he's furiously cleaning his glasses.
Jenny: Yesss!
Joanna: 'Cause he doesn't want to know this. [Everyone laughing continuously.]
Kristin: Yeah, he's gone too far and he cannot turn back.
Joanna: Yes.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: So then, Uncle Enyos… RIP.
Joanna: Well, so this is a really fun cut, actually. Right, because Jenny's like, "I can take you to someone who knows something." Or something like that, right?
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Mhm.
Joanna: She says some lead in line and then it cuts to Uncle Enyos, where he starts talking - you hear someone come into the room, and he starts talking, and you think he's talking to Buffy and then it's Angel. How did Angel find out about Uncle Enyos? We don't know! [Laughs.]
Kristin: Who knows?
Jenny: Hmmmm.
Joanna: Maybe Drusilla had a vision, we don't know, but -
Jenny: Right. He looked up like the Kalderash directory in Sunnydale - [Kristin laughs.]
Joanna: Yeah. [Laughs.]
Kristin: There's only one other Kalderash here! [Everyone laughs.] Staying at the hotel.
Joanna: 'Cause he didn't know about Jenny, so like, you know, there's no…
Kristin: Yeah!
Jenny: Right!
Kristin: Yeah. It's true! And you also brought up, and we're assuming, I guess, that he's staying at a hotel, but the other -
Jenny: 'Cause it looks hotel-y.
Kristin: It does.
Jenny: And otherwise how could -
Kristin: How could he have gotten in?
Jenny: Angelus just entered without an invitation.
Joanna: Ohhh, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: Right, so -
Joanna: Yeah, it does look like motel art, like on the walls -
Kristin: [Laughs.] Yeah, yeah.
Jenny: Okay wait, but so -
Joanna: Before Angel does his art on the wall.
Jenny: Ohhh god.
Kristin: Eugh.
Jenny: But quick interjection - does that mean, like what's the deal with AirBnBs? Are, can vampires -
Kristin: [Laughs.] Oooh!
Jenny: Enter an AirBnB, I'm wondering, for my future lodging needs. And safety.
Kristin: Because it's like both.
Joanna: I think they can't unless they sign, like aren't you basically signing a contract when you sort of enter into an agreement with an AirBnB?
Jenny: Hmmmm! Yes.
Joanna: So I feel like, if he goes on the website, and registers -
Jenny: Mmm. Mmmm! [Kristin cackles.]
Joanna: Angelus29. [Everyone laughs.] I don't know why I picked 29 - it's not a significant number. [Jenny laughs.] And then like signs the contract, I feel like then he can go in.
Kristin: Interesting. Yeah, 'cause -
Jenny: Wow! There's a lot here. A lot here.
Kristin: It is both someone's home, and a place of lodging for others. Interesting.
Joanna: Mmm.
Kristin: So, right so the wall art -
Jenny: Ohhh.
Kristin: You brought it up.
Jenny: Ohhh, what a bummer.
Kristin: Ooof. 'Cause at first, I-when I first was watching this, I was like, "why is he even -?" I didn't even think about that the fact how would he know who this is. But I was like, "why is he even bothering killing Uncle-like, Uncle Enyos?" Like, what? You know what I mean? Like it just, it seemed like he had bigger fish to fry than this. And then I realized, oh right, he's using this as one more tool to manipulate Buffy. Like he knows-he knew Buffy was gonna be there and he knew he could, like, leave her a message. [Jenny sighs.]
Joanna: But it was-it was also, like when, at the end of the conversation between Jenny and Uncle Enyos, wasn't he like - wasn't he like saying, "maybe there's something I can do..?" But yeah, I feel like if there's a possibility of Uncle Enyos, like, having any deeper Kalderash knowledge that he could impart, that could help anyone, like, you know.
Kristin: Mhm.
Joanna: Re-curse Angel, 'cause that's what Buffy wants.
Kristin: That's - yeah -
Joanna: Then he cuts that resource off, you know -
Kristin: Yeah, that true.
Joanna: At the knees.
Jenny: Ohhh, yeah.
Kristin: Yes. Yeah. That's a good point. But yeah! So know we get Cordy in her beautiful gear -
Jenny: Her trashy-er outfit -
Kristin: Her trashier outfit, which like, I am super into, just like Kate. Kate was super into this outfit. Agree with you, Kate.
Jenny: I had pants made out of that silver material -
Joanna: Yes.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: In high school. Just full disclosure.
Kristin: I think a lot of people had various clothing items made out of that silk - that was a good, good couple years for the industry -
Joanna: Yeah.
Kristin: Who make silver fabric. [Kristin and Jenny laugh.]
Joanna: Yeah I feel like at least two of the Spice Girls wore something similar.
Jenny: Ohhh yeah.
Kristin: Yess!
Joanna: Alex Mack, I'm pretty sure was wearing something like that
Kristin: 100%.
Joanna: At some point. [Everyone laughs.]
Kristin: But yeah, and she has this wonderful [laughs], Cordelia has a wonderful moment where she's like, "I'm not a soldier! Am I?" [Everyone laughs.] She's like - Xander, really, like, really hit the nail on the head with like, who he needed to bring [Joanna laughs] for the particular moment -
Jenny: Yeah, yeah. For sure.
Kristin: Like, Cordelia, without knowing anything is perfect in this scene. [Laughs.]
Jenny: Yeah. And we find out that Xander still remembers all of the military knowledge he gained -
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: When he was turned into his Halloween costume.
Joanna: That's kind of fun!
Kristin: Yeah!
Joanna: Like, that's a clause of convenience I kind of like, you know I mean. 'Cause it's like, they very definitely were like, "hey, what if we retcon it that Xander remembers all of his Halloween stuff." And my question is like, what does Willow remember? [Laughs.]
Kristin: [Laughs.] Yeah. [Jenny laughs.]
Joanna: What does Buff - like could Buffy, like, rattle off like, [Kristin laughs] courtly etiquette, or something like that? If she needed to?
Jenny: Hmmm.
Joanna: You know. These are my questions.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Well, maybe wearing that outfit helped Willow prepare to ask Oz if he wanted to make out with her.
Kristin: Oz's delivery of the one word when he just says -
Kristin and Jenny: "what?"
Kristin: [Laughing] After Willow asks if he wants to make out with her is my one of my favourite Oz moments. It's so - it's also one of my favourite Seth Green moments. It's just such great acting. And this whole scene, I mean this is - Joanna, perhaps you want to talk about this 'cause I know you were like, "listen, sexual tension, fine! But everybody outta my way when we get to Willow and Oz." So, you… [laughs]
Joanna: You guys, okay. So here's the thing. I'm - we haven't met face to face, even though I feel like I know you [Kristin laughs] but I'm like quite tall. And I had like a rule - I still have a rule, through my life - is that like, sorry, shorter gentlemen of the world, but that a guy has to be taller than I am -
Kristin: Mhm.
Joanna: In order for me to be interested in him. That's my shallow, superficial thing that I need.
Kristin: Yeah.
Joanna: And my [laughs] exception is Seth Green. [Jenny and Kristin laugh.] Because - he is like a tiny little man, but like, I love Oz so much and like this scene is one of the main reasons - I could like say word for word. I wasn't saying it word for word but I could. [Jenny chuckles.] He's like, the Willow kissage, like -
Kristin: Ugh, god.
Joanna: Like, even the cutesy, like Whedonese Willow kissage, I'm like, yep, that's vital to my teenage experience.
Jenny: Yeah.
Joanna: Or when he says, "that's on the empty side." Like -
Kristin: Ugh!
Joanna: All of this, you know. And then Alyson Hannigan's face as the camera just like stays on her face as she just stares at him and is like, "ohh, this is what it's like when someone loves you or likes you."
Kristin: Yesss!
Joanna: It's not like, you're not pining after someone who treats you like just a pal or garbage sometimes. You know, like -
Jenny: Mhm.
Joanna: This is what it's like! And it's just like, ohh, I love - it doesn't get better than Willow and Oz, in my opinion.
Kristin: No, ugh.
Jenny: Oh my god, and the way he caps it off with, "in my fantasy, when I'm kissing you, you're kissing me."
Kristin: Kissing me!
Joanna: [Yells.] Ahhh! [Kristin laughs.] And it's like, that's okay, I'll wait. And you're just like, oh my god, okay.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: No, so, ugh, the perfect -
Joanna: Yeah. Setting a lot -
Jenny: Impossible bars for future boyfriends.
Kristin: Yeah, seriously.
Jenny: For all time.
Joanna: Yeah.
Kristin: My note in this is just Oz and then the equals sign and then perfect, so [laughs].
Jenny: Good note.
Joanna: Oh, it's a lot of good math in this - [everyone laughs]
Kristin: Yeah!
Jenny: Great math!
Kristin: So then Buffy, right, we have this like scene before the commercial break where she's like, "I'm gonna kill him."
Jenny: Ahh.
Kristin: "I know what to do and I need to kill him." And when we come back, we [laughs], we get - I think was up for sexual tension award #2 - the trio of the Judge, Drusilla and Angel. Uhh.. [Jenny and Kristin laugh.] I just love the three of them - I love this moment where Angel calls the Judge "spiffy" -
Joanna: Yeah.
Kristin: And the Judge is like, [in a deep voice] "spiffy?" [Everyone laughs.] He, like, doesn't understand. It's just cute!
Joanna: Yeah. You guys, maybe controversial opinion, but they kill the Judge too soon, right?
Kristin: Yess!
Joanna: We should have gotten two more episodes of the Judge being like, basically like Data from Star Trek or something like that. [Everyone laughs.] Being like, "what are your human ways? I find them so confusing."
Kristin: Right?! Just like awkwardly kneeling in the corner and being like,
"uh, leave me alone." Like
Jenny: Ahem, I'm preparing
Kristin: Yeah. [Everyone continuously laughing.]
Joanna: I have-I have a bone to pick with - so the Judge, earlier says he smells humanity on Drusilla and Spike because they love each other, right?
Kristin: Right!
Jenny: Mhm.
Joanna: And then when he touches Angel, he's like, "this one cannot be burned - he is pure." And we're like, ohhh, Angel's evil! [Kristin laughs.] But isn't the whole premise like, that Angel's still - Angelus loves Buff - like he's obsessed with Buffy. He loves her. Like, I think that he still loves her.
There's that, like, creepy obsession angle to it, you know, but there's
Kristin: Right.
Joanna: I mean -
Kristin: But maybe it's that, like, through, like, what happens to that love when you take away the humanity kind of a deal?
Joanna: Mmmm. Ohhh yeah.
Kristin: You know?
Jenny: Alkalizes into something different.
Kristin: And, it - yeah, it's still there but, right, but it appears if it happens in different ways. Whereas like Spike and Dru, like they lo - they'll, like, cuddle with each other. There's a scene - there's actually a moment in this episode that I found really interesting where Spike puts his hand on Drusilla's, like, stomach, in a way, that like it looked like -
Joanna: It looked like she was pregnant.
Kristin: Yes!
Joanna: Yes! Yeah.
Kristin: It did! It was, like, but you know, I feel like they just have this, like, very compassionate thing that - I don't know - that I guess Ang - I don't know. I don't know. We have to ask the Judge. [Everyone laughs.] Does anybody have the Judge?
Joanna: Yeah, can guys please get Brian Thompson to be a guest on your show?
Kristin: Yes! Ugh, yes!
Joanna: Thank you. [Laughs.]
Kristin: Yes, we want that. We want that. I actually was pulling up all of Brian Thompson's IMDB data very recently. So that we can have him on. I mean, he had - we can have him on at any point, I feel like. He's been two characters -
Joanna: Yes.
Kristin: Already, like, ugh! So then, there's this Giles moment where -
Jenny: So good!
Kristin: Right? They're like opening up the weapon and Jenny Calendar is really good at [laughs] like, lurking -
Jenny: Popping!
Kristin: Popping up in like little space of the frame that isn't full of anything -
Jenny: [laughing] Yeah! [Joanna laughs.]
Kristin: She's like, "hey guys! How do you need help?"
Jenny: Not right now Jenny! [Laughs.]
Kristin: [Laughs.] Yeah. And Buffy says, "get out." And then, ugh, Giles, "She said, get out."
Jenny: Number one Dad alert.
Kristin: Number one! He stands -
Jenny: World's greatest dad!
Kristin: He stands right by her, stands right by her! Ugh. And then we go to the mall! [Joanna laughs.]
Jenny: Yay, the mall!
Kristin: The second time we're in the Sunnydale Mall, right? This is time number two?
Joanna: Wait, is that the same set they used in "Bad Eggs?"
Kristin: I think so.
Joanna: To me it looks like something else that's been dressed up to look mall-ish.
Kristin: Yes.
Joanna: Right?
Jenny: Yeah, yeah totally. Exactly.
Kristin: Agreed. In "Bad Eggs" it was like, definitely a mall.
Joanna: A mall.
Joanna and Kristin: Yeah.
Kristin: And this, they're like, "let's put a cash register on a table."
Jenny: Yeah!
Joanna: Yeah. [Everyone laughs.]
Kristin: Because even -
Jenny: People will have shopping bags but there will be no stores visible.
Kristin: Yeah!
Joanna: Exactly. There's no stores, they're just lining up. I mean, we get a bit of a movie theatre sort of hallway later, but like, yeah, I know where people would - I know where I would go if - Like, I love, I love all of that setup. 'Cause it's like, the Bronze, obviously! Nope, Bronze is closed. [Kristin laughs.] Okay, where? Where's the other place?
Kristin: Right.
Joanna: Oh, the mall! You know, that place we've been once before and I think never go again. [Everyone laughs.]
Kristin: Right! And I like, I feel like there's also a general lack of concern amongst the shoppers. Like, I know that the Judge doesn't actually start frying people right away but he's -
Jenny: He actually does fry somebody right away.
Joanna: He fries one guy right off. Yeah, right off the bat.
Kristin: But like, even-even before - you don't even - the guy is blue. He's the size of, like, a tank [Joanna laughs] and he's just - I just feel like that alone should've caused like a murmur from the crowd and yet everyone's like [sings] doo-doo-la-doo-doo.
Jenny: Yeah, like is this tied into "Quest for Camelot?"
Kristin: Yeah. [Laughs.]
Jenny: The movie's that currently screening.
Joanna: You guys, I was watching this episode - I'm like, "soon I will get to see the poster for 'Quest for Camelot.'" [Jenny and Kristin laugh.] It's like part of my ritual of watching this episode is, like, the time capsule that is. Like, the only people remember that movie exists is -
Jenny: Oh my god.
Joanna: Because the poster is [laughs] in this episode. [Jenny laughs.]
Kristin: God. I'm gonna tell you what - if Jenny and I ever just wanna take a week off, and we need two cohosts, could you imagine Kate and Joanna talking about an episode together?
Jenny: Jesus Christ.
Kristin: Because like you're - like I feel like the things that you notice too - 'cause that was the first thing that Kate texted us about that episode. She was like, "oh my god, this is the one with the "Quest for Camelot" poster!" [Joanna and Kristin laugh.]
Joanna: I was like bracing myself for it! I was like - and I was like, are there other posters? I was like, I know the "Quest for Camelot" poster is there. Are there other posters? Then I was like, no… [Jenny laughs] It's "Quest for Camelot" no matter what the angle. [Kristin laughs.] And then I think there's also like a cardboard "Quest for Camelot" standee. [Jenny and Kristin laugh.] So I feel like "Quest for Camelot" like, sponsored this episode, it feels like.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Woww.
Joanna: Yeah.
Kristin: I would love to be able to dig that information -
Jenny: Or maybe it was produced by the - is it the Kuzui's?
Joanna: Ohh, yes!
Jenny: That own Buffy, basically?
Kristin: Ohhh, ohhh, interesting. They were like, "we know how to work this shot!" [Kristin and Jenny laugh.]
Joanna: Yes.
Kristin: So then - right. So, okay, so first of all, nobody at the mall responds. Second of all, the [laughs] - no one in the Scooby gang seemsconcerned at all that there are just a million people in the mall
Jenny: A million civilians.
Kristin: When they are shooting off - does anyone know the name of this rocket?
Jenny: I think it's a bazooka!
Kristin: A bazooka?
Joanna: It's a bazooka.
Kristin: What?
Joanna: "No weapon forged." I just feel like we needed to say - we hadn't said it yet this episode, I think. "No weapon forged."
Kristin: That's true. [Everyone laughs.]
Joanna: Is an important thing to say. It takes an army; "no weapon forged." Okay.
Kristin: Yeah, that's actually my tattoo. That's my Buffy tattoo. [Everyone laughing.] Just, no context. It's just gonna be, "no weapon forged." [Everyone laughs.] But yeah! Like, what about the civilians here, guys? I mean, it seems -
Joanna: Yeah, I feel like one of - like, Cordelia could have been on crowd control of like, [yells] "get out of here!"
Kristin: [Laughs.] Right! [Joanna laughs.]
Jenny: [Laughs.] Yeah, something!
Kristin: Right?! Anything! Just anything. And then this - like, I love the slow-mo of Dru and Angel, like, leaping over -
Jenny: Oh yeah, yeah, yeah.
Joanna: You guys.
Kristin: Over the railing, land on the floor [laughs] and then Drusilla throwing her Drusilla tantrum that her plan hasn't gone -
Jenny: Spectacular.
Kristin: Yeah.
Joanna: There's so many comedy moments in this episode - in any given Buffy episode. But I never laugh hardest than at - like, the hardest that I laugh is the moment where Dru and Angel realize what that weapon is, that they're fucked. They don't even try with the Judge [Kristin laughs]. They're like, "screw this guy!" They look at each other, just screw this guy, and jump. [Kristin and Jenny laugh.] And it is so funny to me. They're like, "we got this big plan - we're gonna burn the human - oh, no… screw our guy that we spent so long trying to assemble!"
Kristin: [Laughing.] Right.
Jenny: Yeah!
Joanna: They're just like, bail, bail, bail. It's a great moment.
Jenny: Limbs, and torsos and heads pulled from every corner of the Earth [Joanna laughs].
Kristin: Right?! All gone!
Jenny: All that hard work.
Kristin: They don't care.
Joanna: Screw that guy.
Kristin: Yeah, screw that guy.
Joanna: Yeah, and we should note, I guess, that this was the - like, the pan-up on Buffy is the classic -
Kristin: Ugh.
Jenny: Mmm!
Joanna: The opening credits shot, right?
Kristin: Yes. Ohh, it's so good. It's so good! And then my, my next note is, "gettin' wet part two."
Joanna: [Laughs] I thought of that!
Jenny: Oh my god.
Joanna: 'Cause I was listening to your "Surprise" episode, [Kristin laughs] and I was like, I hadn't thought about all the gettin' wet in "Surprise" and then went the sprinklers went on, I was like, "oh! and we're back." [Everyone laughs.]
Kristin: We're back! Which is like, hilarious, but also, you know, totally a device to be like, "hey, remember." 'Cause that's-that's exactly what's happening here. It's like, right, they're-they're getting - well, I mean they're not going to have sex, but they're like, rem-this moment between them, that has passed between them is a part of the fight scene that is about to happen, you know.
Jenny: Mhmm.
Kristin: The sexual tension is certainly there, in the fight and then the reason that Buffy can't yet kill him is because of, like, what has passed between them.
Jenny: What they had, yeah.
Kristin: Yeah, exactly.
Jenny: Oh my god, and he says like, "you made me the man I am today."
Kristin: Ughh.
Jenny: It's like, really driving it home.
Kristin: So dark! And then, you know, probably a lot of people who are listening right now are like, "umm guys, you're workin' to the end of the episode and nobody has brought up a key point in all of your podcast episodes." But don't worry, because Buffy can't kill Angel, but she can kick him really hard, in the balls. What do you think that represents, Jenny?
Jenny: Well, I think that represents smashing the patriarchy! [Kristin laughs.]
Joanna: Yessss! Nailed it.
Kristin: Oh and I just love -
Joanna: My note here, my note here says "kicks him in the dick." [Everyone laughs.]
Kristin: Actually yeah, mine is, "Dick, period. Kick, period." Is my actual - my actual words.
Jenny: Also, like please don't write to us -
Kristin: Oh my god.
Jenny: But I'm just wondering aloud, with no expectation of anyone - please, please do not write to us about this -
Kristin: You're really asking for it Jenny.
Jenny: I know. But like, what is it that makes it so hard painful, and so sensitive for a -
Kristin: What makes it so painful to be kicked in the balls?
Jenny: Yes! What makes it so painful to be kicked in the balls.
Kristin: I think that it's just a million billion nerve endings. That's what I think. That's my scientific hypothesis.
Jenny: Are all of your nerve endings intact when you're undead - I just, like I'm having a hard time buying -
Kristin: Well, listen -
Joanna: And your blood flow… Yeah.
Jenny: Deep, very powerful, very powerful, strong, evil, fuelled by his, like, psychotic rage.
Kristin: Right, and -
Jenny: But he's felled by a kick to the… junk.
Kristin: Right! I'm with you. Even if-even if he had the same feeling in his balls as other people have in their balls, I just feel like the whole purpose of him, as a vamp, is that he's like the strongest in the - [laughs] I feel like he probably shouldn't have gone down as hard.
Jenny: But that moment is for Buffy and that moment is like, for us.
Kristin: Yes, and I'll take it.
Jenny: We need something.
Kristin: Yes, yes. We'll take -
Jenny: Something, after everything he's done all episode.
Kristin: We'll take it, and also, like, it's followed - I love this fucking line too, where she like kicks him in the dick, and then she's like, "give me time."
Joanna: Yesss! Give me time! Maybe that'll be my tattoo. "Give me time."
Kristin: Ohhh. [Everyone laughs.]
Jenny: You're gonna get - you're gonna get a full sleeve.
Kristin: So many -
Joanna: You guys. And it's just gonna be -
Jenny: Plus your back.
Joanna: It's just gonna be my entire arm [Kristin laughing], a lot of phrases, the giraffe pants [Jenny bursts into laughter] will be incorporated. [Everyone laughing.]
Kristin: Great, this is great.
Jenny: Wait, you should just get -
Joanna: A Claddagh ring… yeah.
Jenny: You should just get giraffe print tattooed on the entire lower half of your body.
Kristin: Of your legs?
Joanna: Ohhh.
Kristin: Just your legs in giraffe print?
Jenny: Yeah.
Joanna: Are you saying… permanent giraffe pants? [Kristin and Joanna laugh.]
Jenny: That's exactly what I'm saying, [laughs] Joanna.
Joanna: [Laughing.] Yesss.
Kristin: Ohhh my god.
Joanna: I never knew it could be possible. I want to say really quickly that we did skip over the Judge going - what does he say? Like, "what's that?" Or-
Kristin and Jenny: "What's that do?" [Laughing.]
Joanna: "What's that do?" Yeah, it's a pretty good line.
Kristin: [Laughing.] Yes. [Joanna laughs.] The Judge, you're right, the Judge should have stayed around, man.
Jenny: Yeah, I would have enjoyed -
Kristin: The Judge is a great character. [Laughs.]
Joanna: And then, and also Cordelia has that great line, where's she's like-where they're like, "go pick up the pieces of the Judge." And she's like, "pieces! Pick up the pieces?! Our job sucks." [Everyone laughs.]
Jenny: Yeah-ha-ha-ha-ha!
Joanna: And then we got that great moment where Oz just points at a bit and goes, "arm." [Joanna and Kristin laugh.]
Jenny: Yeah, why is Oz not doing any of the lifting? Is a question I have.
Kristin: I mean, I feel like Oz -
Joanna: "I drove us here, so… " [Laughs.]
Kristin: Yeah, and like, he's integrating, you know? Like, he just learned about vampires like the last episode that we saw.
Jenny: Right, right, right, right, right.
Kristin: So, he needs a minute. [Laughs.]
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: He's adjusting. So right, so Buffy says, "give me time." And then - and then we get your - and then we cut, after this scene, after this self-aware scene for Buffy, I think.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: That's what I loved about it, which I didn't say - was just that like not only is she saying, like, I will be able to do this, but she's very aware of the fact that she needs to build up her strength. And like, kind of is okay with the fact that she isn't there yet, you know? Which… I love. And then we get to your favourite car - I wrote down, "old jaloopy." I don't know why. [Jenny laughs.] I don't know why I wrote "old jaloopy" but that's what I called Giles's car.
Jenny and Joanna: Jalopy? [Both laugh.]
Kristin: Yeah, but I wrote it "jaloopy."
Jenny: It's a Citroen, or that's not how you say it, but Citroen.
Joanna: Ohhh, yeah! Citroen, right?
Kristin: Yeah, I think so.
Jenny: Somebody wrote us a very detailed email, including the phonetic pronunciation.
Kristin: Cit-ree-own.
Joanna: Cit-rone-eh?
Kristin: I don't remember.
Jenny: Oh my gosh. Sorry person who wrote us that great email!
Kristin: No, it was great. It was a great email! We read it on the mailbag.
Jenny: We just can't remember anything.
Kristin: But yeah, so Giles is in his-is, you know, they have this like perfect -
Jenny: Ugh, it's so sweet! Oh, god.
Kristin: Exchange, that is really important, too. Like, I feel like it is really - I don't know, it's just like this critical moment of her being like, I did this, like, just really feeling guilt. And Giles being like, "no, like, you know, you didn't - I can give you what you want, but - you know, I know what you're after is guilt, but I can't give you that, because I don't feel that about you." And him saying, like, "and Angel loved you too." You know?
Jenny: Oh yeah.
Kristin: Which seems so important -
Jenny: Validating.
Kristin: To say to her! Right, that like, you know, when you go through a heartbreak, and you look back and you're like, I was such a fool. It's like, well no, there were real - what happened was real. Like, what happened before was real and even though it's not there anymore, doesn't take away from the fact that it was there once. So Giles just nails it.
Joanna: Yeah.
Kristin: And she gets moments with both of her parents 'cause then she leaves Giles and she goes into the couch with Joyce.
Joanna: Yeah, but Joyce doesn't know and it's so unfair, you know, Giles gets to know this about Buffy but Joyce doesn't. And I think it - without spoiling anything, I think bearing that in mind later in the series is good. Of all the things that Joyce has missed - is missing in her daughter's life, that her daughter is keeping secrets from her, which is true of any teenager, but you know, extremely -
Kristin: Right!
Jenny: Mmm.
Joanna: So for Buffy. You know, I like how sometimes when Buffy talks to her mom in code, right? She sometimes will say things, like the metaphor - you know, the other side of the metaphor, you know? And Joyce can be an understanding, good mom then.
Kristin: Mhm.
Joanna: But she gives her mom nothing and just says creepy things like, [laughs] "I'll just let my birthday candles [everyone laughs] burn!" And that was like, the most Hot Topic, gothic thing anyone's ever said!
Kristin: Right! [Everyone laughing.] Right?
Jenny: And "whaddja do for you birthday?" "I got older… " [Everyone laughs.]
Kristin: Yeah!
Joanna: Oh god! But I do love that they're like, wearing their, like, matching socks and PJs-like their whole little cozy, comfy get-up is so cute and their black and white movie tradition and -
Jenny: Mhmm.
Joanna: Yeah.
Kristin: Ugh! It's so sweet. It really is. And, you know, obviously without spoiling things, but like, we have talked too before about this, like, coming out kind of a narrative -
Joanna: Yes.
Kristin: And I think that that is what you're talking about here too, of like, yeah, okay fine, most teenagers don't share everything with their parents, but there's this wall up, where she can't even really tell Joyce anything.
Jenny: Mhm.
Kristin: She can't explain why she's hurting, which, you know, for me, a person remembering being a teenager and having my heart broken by the first girl I ever kissed. Like, you know, I couldn't even roll my eyes and be like, "you know, Mom, this thing happened. Leave me alone." You know, like, I couldn't even do that. I couldn't -
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: I couldn't say anything. So yeah. Ugh, this show.
Joanna: And we should mention that this is the first of the Buffy birthday episodes, which will become a thing, but -
Kristin: Ohhh.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: Right.
Joanna: Right. But this is - there isn't a season one version of it, so this is where it all starts. [Kristin and Jenny sigh.]
Jenny: [Whispers] Right.
Kristin: Right here - together.
Jenny: Whoof. [Joanna laughs.]
Kristin: Wow. So I think we've done it.
Joanna: Yes.
Jenny: I think we have truly done it.
Kristin: Really, this was - you are - Joanna, this was such a dream.
Jenny: For real.
Joanna: You guys! It was such a dream for me! [Kristin laughs.] A huge - I'm so excited. I could do this, please, anytime.
Kristin: You have a -
Joanna: If a guest cancels, like, last minute, just like call me. [Kristin laughs.] Joanna, do you want to ramble for like an hour and a half about a Buffy episode? I'll be like, "depends, is it season six? No… "
Kristin: [Laughing.] Yeah. [Everyone laughs.] We'll be like, "Joanna, how many podcasts have you done today and if you say less than three, then we'll -" [Everyone laughs.] "You're on."
Joanna: But thank you guys so much! And thank you for doing this show in general, and, like, for all the people who are watching this show for the first time so that they can follow along with you guys - I just think it's a really cool thing you're doing. So -
Kristin: Aww.
Joanna: Thank you for doing it.
Kristin: Thank you!
Jenny: Oh my god, thank you so much! When we first started making this podcast, Kristin was like, "who do you want to get on the show," and I was like, "my number one dream guest is Joanna Robinson, my favourite podcaster."
Kristin: Yep!
Jenny: And now here we are.
Joanna: And you guys asked me, like, a while ago - when you guys asked me, I was like, "yes!" [Everyone laughs.] A thousand times yes!
Kristin: This is a common pattern. [Joanna laughs.] 'Cause then immediately, I went to Twitter, I think!
Joanna: Yeah!
Kristin: And I tweeted at you? Or you -
Joanna: Yeah!
Kristin: It was funny because you had, like, of course, it's very telling, you had just tweeted something about Buffy. [Jenny and Kristin laugh.]
Joanna: Must be a Tuesday! [Laughs.] Joanna tweeted something about Buffy.
Kristin: Right, right. [Jenny chuckles.] Yeah, and I was like, "Jenny, it's fine - it's done." [Joanna laughs.] "Joanna Robinson is gonna be on our podcast."
Joanna: Yeah!
Kristin: Ta da! And now, it has happened.
Jenny: I guess we can quit - this is our last episode.
Kristin: Yeah! This is it. [Joanna laughs.] Oh my god, don't even say that. [Jenny laughs.] I feel like everyone is so scarred -
Jenny: Don't write in, don't write in.
Kristin: So many people are like, "will you finish?" Like I feel like - we've all been left -
Jenny: We are here with you.
Kristin: We've all been left at the altar so many times, with people, like, stopping in the middle of season three [laughs] with Buffy podcasts!
Jenny: Mhm.
Kristin: We're gonna make it to the end, guys. Don't you worry.
Joanna: You're gonna go all the way. All right. [Jenny laughs.]
Kristin: We're gonna go all the way. [Joanna laughs.] How thematic.
Jenny: Wow. Okay! So. Joanna Robinson, gift from the heavens, could you please tell the good people listening to our show where they can find more of you on the internet?
Joanna: Yeah, you can find me on Twitter @TreasurerOfTheIHateCordeliaClub - no, [Jenny and Kristin laugh, Joanna joins in] I'm @JoWroteThis. You can find me - my work on VanityFair.com. You can listen to a few of the podcasts that I do. Right now I'm doing Storm of Spoilers, Gen Pop, and Little Gold Men!
Kristin: Ugh, you want to read and listen to all of those things. Trust us when you tell us that.
Jenny: Mhmm. [Joanna laughs.] I'm Jenny Owen Youngs, and when I'm not making this podcast, which is an increasingly smaller portion of my [Kristin chuckles] life's pie chart, as the days go on, I am usually writing songs, and recording songs, and playing shows, and being a musician, and you can learn more about me and hear some of those songs at JennyOwenYoungs.com/buffering! And you can give me a shout - as many of you have been doing recently [Kristin laughs] in various literal forms - on Twitter @JennyOwenYoungs!
Kristin: Yes, and I am Kristin Russo. You can find me on Twitter @KristinNoeline, that's K-R-I-S-T-I-N-N-O-E-L-I-N-E. Which is my middle name. My middle name is Noeline. A lot of people, very close to me - people I've known for a long time, have suddenly started to say, "wait, what is that word though, that you keep spelling?" 'Cause no one knew it was my middle name.
Jenny: Do you feel seen, now?
Kristin: I feel seen. It's a variation on Noelle. You're all welcome. [Jenny chuckles.] Anyhow you can find me over on Twitter @KristinNoeline, and you can also learn more about the work that I do with the LGBTQ young people and their families over at EveryoneIsGay.com or MyKidIsGay.com or you can just learn more about me at KristinNoeline.com.
Jenny: Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on Twitter and Facebook at BufferingCast. And you can also drop us an email at BufferingtheVampireSlayer@gmail.com.
Kristin: There are so very many ways you can help support the work that we do here at Buffering Cast - you can go on over to our Patreon page Patreon.com/BufferingCast and find all sorts of fun things that you can get in exchange for supporting this work here. As a matter of fact, just a few days ago, we did a Buffy watch - we all watched the episode "Surprise" together in our secret little group.
Jenny: It was so cute!
Kristin: It was so wonderful and, you know, and it was really wonderful to watch with all of you that joined us, but what I loved even more, perhaps, than the fact that we watched "Surprise" all together was that because everyone is part of this little secret group now, a lot of you got together after we watched "Surprise" and created your own party, and watched "Innocence" together after we left. [Jenny squeals.] Ohh, it was our favorite thing. Anyhow, you can find -
Jenny: It was so sweet!
Kristin: It was so sweet. You can find out all about that over on Patreon. You can also go to iTunes and leave us a review. We love good reviews. We love them, so please keep them coming. Thank you for that! And of course, as we mentioned in the beginning of the show, we have a listener survey happening right now. You can find it over at podsurvey.com/buffy. P-O-D-S-U-R-V-E-Y dot com slash Buffy. You go over there. Take a quick, anonymous survey. It helps us get to know you. It helps us get some advertisers on this show, which is really helpful as well, and you can enter to win $100 Amazon gift card, just by filling out that little survey. So thank you in advance for all of your help and all of your support. You guys rule. We love you.
Jenny: Praise. And thank you again for joining us, Joanna. if you don't mind howling out with us, that would be a dream.
Joanna: [Yells.] Oh my god! I really want to. [Everyone laughs.]
Kristin: Well that's staying in! [Everyone laughs.]
Jenny: 'Til next timeJenny, Kristin and Joanna: Awoooo!
Kristin: That was good.
Jenny: Amazing. [Joanna laughs.]
Kristin: Yeah. [Jenny performing "Innocence," off the album "Songs from Season Two" by Buffering the Vampire Slayer] Shadow that lit up my heart Your stare that took me apart How could I belong in anyone else's arms? Shadow that lit up my heart Looking back I can only ask Who was that? Who was that? I know that you were standing here Your face, your words, your heart so clear But who was that? Held you so close, how it burned When we kissed, time stopped its turn And how could I belong in anyone else's arms? Held you so close, how it burned Looking back I can only ask Who was that? Who was that? I know that I was standing here My face my words, my heart so clear But who was that?