Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 2.06: Halloween
Jenny: A very exciting announcement: on Sunday, March 5th, Kristin and I are gonna be going live on stageit.com, which is a online concert platform that I do a lot of shows on, on my own, but we've created a Buffering channel where we'll be doing periodic shows from time to time. And on Sunday, March 5th, at 1 PM Pacific time, we will be performing all the songs from season 1 for those of you who couldn't make it to New York in December. And maybe a couple songs from season 2. And we'll also just be hanging out, answering questions, sayin' what's up. So if you want to get more information and tickets, you can do that at stageit.com/bufferingcast. Hope to see you there!
NOTES: [THEME MUSIC]
Jenny: Hello, and welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast where we're watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer one at a time in chronological order. I am Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: And I'm Kristin Russo, and this week we're talking about season 2, episode 6, "Halloween"! Stay tuned at the end of this podcast every week for an original song written by us, recapping the Buffy episode we are discussing.
Jenny: "Halloween" was written by Carl Ellsworth, and directed by Bruce Seth Green, and originally aired on October 27, 1997.
Kristin: This is the one where Buffy and her friends patronize an unusual costume shop where customers turn into whatever costume they are wearing.
Jenny: [spooky noise] Nuuuuuhhhhhh!
Kristin: [laughs] So, as though things couldn't get any better-
Jenny: Mhm?
Kristin: Discussing "Halloween," we have Kate Leth with us-
Kate: Hello!
Jenny and Kristin: Yay! [laughter]
Kate: Hey, ladies!
Jenny: Perhaps the most Halloween-appropriate guest within our reach.
Kristin: For sure-
Kate: I'll claim that.
Kristin: Watching this episode with you was a joy. [Kate laughs] Like, a complete joy.
Kate: Thank you. It's mutual.
Kristin: Kate knows every- I think you know every line.
Jenny: Every single word.
Kate: Pretty much, yeah.
Kristin: Right?
Kate: I mean, I got one wrong. I got one word of one of Spike's lines wrong, and I was just beating myself up about it for the whole rest of the episode.
Kristin: Good. [laughs] Next time. Next time, Kate, you're gonna get it.
Kate: Yeah, you would think I would know by now. [laughter]
Kristin: But it's great. I mean, normally I take copious notes, as you all know. And this time I got, like, a couple scenes in and I saw Kate just furiously typing on her phone. I was like, Kate's got this.
Kate: Yeah. [laughter] Well, it's not that I don't know it. It's just, like, I can't remember stuff or I get so fixated and so excited that I will forget about things that I wanted to talk about so… yeah.
Kristin: Totally. Wow.
Kate: Yeah. It's a lot. It's…
Kristin: It's…
Kate: It's probably one of my favorite episodes. And it's usually left off of the, like, best episode lists but it is, I don't know. It brings me so much joy.
Kristin: Yeah, I don't think it should be left off. I have to say. 'Cause we watched this- So, for those of you who've been listening since the beginning, Jenny and I did a live viewing of this where we watched and you all watched with us on Facebook, I believe, right? That's how it worked?
Jenny: Mhm mhm.
Kristin: And I loved it when I watched it that time. But this time, I think cause it's like chronological and I'm in the moment and I know what's happened right before and I, you know, whatever. Man. So exciting. It's like so many amazing characters have so many amazing moments in the episode.
Kate: It's just, like, some of the best character moments and dialogue of the whole season. And season two is my favorite. I'm really glad I got to come back.
Jenny: Mm-hmmm.
Kristin: Nice.
Kate: 'Cause there are multiple moments in this sea- Like, I genuinely think this show is never as good as it is in season two. And I love the show. I love the show more than anything. But it is by far the best.
Jenny: Peak.
Kristin: What do you think it is about season two that makes it the peak for you?
Kate: I think it was when they hit their stride before they hit any kind of routine. It was the distilled essence of everything I liked about the show. [Jenny laughs] 'Cause I like stuff that comes later a lot, too. I gotta remember not to spoil anything. [laughter] I'll be very considerate.
Kristin: That's okay. We newly spoil everything as of last week's live episode. [laughter]
Jenny: No!
Kate: It's fine. I can control myself.
Kristin: Okay.
Kate: But I just think, you know, season two is Spike and Drusilla, who are my favorite bad guys, my favorite everything. Angel's still so good, so many good things happen, so many bad things happen but they're so well done. And I just think, like, it's over the awkwardness of season one, and they know what they're doing and they came at it so fresh and so strong. I don't know, I just have a lot of love for the second season.
Kristin: So good.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Actually, Mey Rude, who now-of course you know, Kate, but now all of our listeners know from her guesting a couple of episodes ago-she said when we asked her- 'Cause she hated season one. She couldn't stand it, and she was like-
Kate: What?
Kristin: Yeah.
Kate: Oh, I have so much love for it.
Kristin: But I wonder, do you remember if you had love for season one on your first time through, or if now you've seen it so many times that you have love for it?
Kate: I think I liked it. I started watching it, you know, week by week probably towards the end of season one. I didn't start from the first episode. And then was watching religiously from season two on. So I think that's a big part of my love, too. And it's not an ironic- Like, I know it's super goofy, and the writing is really inconsistent, and it's all over the place. I started working in TV writing since the last time we did an episode. [laughter] So I'm hypercritical now of, like, that's out of character dialogue. Um, but, yeah… I just genuinely really like it, even though sometimes it's bad, it is… so good. It's like the birth of the show. I can't not love it.
Kristin: Totally. And I'm- I think I'm with you. I don't know how you- You're a season one fan at this point, right?
Jenny: Yeah! I mean, I think it's… the worst season.
Kate: Yeah. That's- I mean, that's true.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: But what can you do? Every show, no matter how great it is, has to have a worst season. And in order to get to season two-
Kristin: Totally!
Jenny:- season one had to happen.
Kate: And it's mercifully short.
Jenny and Kristin: Yes.
Kate: So even if you don't like it, it's only twelve episodes.
Kristin: Right. But this episode is- 'Cause we were like, "Well, when did it shift for you, Mey?" 'Cause now Mey is super into it. And this was the episode that she said. Like it was, "I watched 'Halloween' and I was like, oh."
Kate: I remember watching the ads for "Halloween" before it came out.
Kristin: Wow! [Jenny laughs]
Kate: Just like, you know, "Next week on Buffy the Vampire Slayer, costumes run amok." [Kristin laughs] And I was so excited. Every time it came on I was just losing my mind. I only have that distinct memory for this episode and then "Once More With Feeling" in the sixth season. The only ones where I remember the ads.
Kristin: Wow. That's amazing. [Jenny laughs]
Kate: Yeah, 'cause I was really excited. And I do think it is in a lot of ways,you know, one of the episodes where you're like: Okay, this show. But "School Hard" as well, I think, does that, too. But this is the one where I was like, this is my favorite show.
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: Yeah, we have everything. We better get into it. There's so much to talk about.
Jenny: First of all. Pop's Pumpkin Patch and this… fucking Spike's research assistant [Kate laughs] with the camcorder. Okay, now correct me if I'm wrong, but-
Kristin: You're right.
Jenny:- don't the mechanics of a camcorder require a mirror?
Kristin: Yes, you're right.
Kate: Yeah.
Jenny: Uh, to capture an image? So…
Kristin: Mm-hmm. This is a goof. It's a goof.
Kate: Oh, yeah! I did not even think of that. Why would he show up on film?
Kristin: Yeah, he shouldn't. Actually, it's funny, because I don't know that I would have thought of that myself. But when we were I guess doing the live watch of it, I read something that was like, "By the way, this is a goof." And it didn't say it on IMDB. Usually IMDB has my back on catching things like that.
Jenny: Interesting.
Kate: Which makes sense, I mean, they don't deal with that a lot in Buffy. They really hammer home the you can't cross the threshold without being invited. I think that's their main vampire thing in the show.
Kristin: Right. And they actually, one of the things I saw talked about in this episode, 'cause there is a vampire-
Jenny: That one dude in the kitchen, right?
Kristin: But the discussion around it was that that dude was a high school student dressed as a vampire who morphed into a vamp.
Kate: So he's not a real-
Kristin: Yes.
Kate: Yeah, the mechanics around the costumes are very spotty.
Kristin: Right. [laughs]
Kate: They're fairly inconsistent, but we can get into that when get to the costumes. [laughter] 'Cause I got feelings. [laughter]
Kristin: So Pop's Pumpkin Patch, and this- I mean, I love Spike for many reasons.
Kate: He's perfect.
Kristin: Kate, is Spike your favorite character?
Kate: He- No… He's among them. I have a hard time being, like, solidly this is my favorite character. I appreciate them for many different reasons. But Spike I love. Just sort of… very, very much, except for that one episode.
Kristin: Ugh. Which we're gonna hem and haw about until we get to it.
NOTES: [laughs]
Kate: [laughs] But I just, I love him. And especially early on, like this season and when he's with Drusilla. I mean he's never better than that. He's so good. So yeah, he's prime Spike in this episode, too. There's so many characters in this episode.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kate: It is a masterpiece of balancing plots and characters.
Kristin: I know! Everyone! We've got Oz, we've got- You were very excited about Giles this episode.
Kate: Yeah. Hell yeah. Oh, yeah. [laughter]
Kristin: We'll get there. Cordelia- This a very-
Kate: [high pitched] Such a good Cordelia episode!
Kristin: Oh man, what a Cordelia episode. [laughs] Okay, let me see what I have written down. We all have so many notes. [laughs] So we start with Angel at the Bronze.
Jenny: Oh my God.
Kate: Oh yes.
Jenny: [muffled] "I'm waiting for Buffy."
Kate: In a shirt that, like, has he never worn a shirt before? Because the way that the collar is down and out like it's running away from his neck. [laughter] I just don't-
Kristin: It looks like it came right out of the package and just, he put it right on his body.
Jenny: He went to the cappuccino date shirt section of the store. [laughter]
Kristin: And watching him- Especially 'cause we're just coming off of "Reptile Boy" where we've seen Cordelia fake laugh. She's like, "This is how you laugh," and whatever. And then for some reason we see Angel who's laughing at Cordelia's jokes but obviously does not think that they're funny.
NOTES: [Jenny laughs]
Kate: Yeah.
Kristin: He's just, like, trapped there. And then Buffy…
Kate: This part is, in my opinion, Buffy overreacting.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Come on, Buffy.
Kate: She walks in and is feeling bad about herself because, "Oh no, I just beat up a whole bunch of vampires but still showed up looking hot, 'cause I always do." [Jenny laughs] Like, "Oh, I'll never be as good as her." Like, Buffy!
Kristin: Right?
Kate: Just, have you a mirror? Like, do you know- [Kristin laughs]
Jenny: Have you a mirror.
Kate: Do you know what you bring to the table? [Jenny laughs] It's hard for me to buy. I get it, they're teenagers, and teenagers have no self esteem. We've all been there.
Jenny: Right right right.
Kate: But when she walks in and sees Cordelia and Angel talking and then she's like, "Oh, he doesn't want me. I'm gonna leave." I'm like, "Girl!"
Kristin: Right?
Kate: Come on.
Kristin: And it's also kind of out of character?
Kate: It is a little out of character for me. Yeah.
Kristin: Yeah. I know she's a teenager, but usually she's got a little bit more confidence in herself.
Kate: Yeah!
Jenny: Well, no, when it comes to Cordelia being near Angel, that is the repeating moment that she seems to get the most unspooled.
Kristin: Yeah, that's true. Which is so nonsensical, but…
Kate: Yeah. But I mean, they kind of deal with that in this episode later. 'Cause Cordelia's kind of like, "This is why I'm so good at this." [laughter]
Kristin: What does she say, Kate? You're not gonna be able to contain yourself. [laughter]
Kate: Oh, she says… I wrote down so many direct quotes from this episode, because I think it is among the most quotable episodes.
Jenny: Yeah yeah yeah.
Kristin: Yeah, for sure.
Kate: But when she says, like, "You must-" I forget what it's like- "You know your stuff when it comes to demons and whatever, but when it comes to dating, I'm the slayer."
Jenny: Yeeeeeeeeeah!
Kate: And I just, like- [sigh] I wanna marry her. I just wanna worship her every day.
Kristin: Yeah. You know what? You can! [laughs]
Kate: And she's wearing her best outfit in the whole episode in that scene, too, so it is just prime Cordelia.
Kristin: Is that when she's in the, like, schoolgirl-
Jenny: [I have not the words to describe the noises Jenny makes here.]
Kate: Yeah, yeah. Mm-hm. Sure is. Sure is.
Kristin: Okay, Jenny. Wow. Wow. Yeah, it's real good.
Jenny: Ideal. Ideal. Because we just saw her wear a sweater vest and a button-down and a skirt in the last episode. And now here she is wearing it again, making me very happy. Please go on.
Kate: Just like trying to destroy my life.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Mm-hm.
Kate: There's just the insane hotness of a girl who goes to public school [Jenny laughs] but still wears a fucking school uniform.
Kristin: Right? Yeah. It's too much. It's too much.
Kate: I can't. It's such a power move. It's so good.
Kristin: We don't need to go any farther. We have to give it to Cordelia right now.
Kate: Yeah.
Jenny: Now?
Kristin: Now.
Jenny: Okay.
NOTES: [Jenny performs Cordelia Jingle] Cordelia (ah-ahh) I love you, Cordelia (ah-ahh) You're perfect, Cordelia (ah-ahh)
Kristin: Well, as predicted, Kate, we did not make it very far in this episode.
NOTES: [Jenny laughs]
Kate: But we knew that was gonna happen.
Kristin: We did.
Kate: Because, like I said, it's one of the best Cordelia episodes.
Kristin: Yeah. Of all time.
Jenny: Truly.
Kate: She has so many good- I mean, there are so many sections, but her bit where she talks to Oz is probably the funniest.
Jenny: Oh my god. Oh my god.
Kate: And when she does her- I can't… I can't do it word for word, but when she-
Kristin: You capture the essence.
Kate: She shows up later into the episode. She's dating Devon from Dingoes Ate My Baby.
Jenny: Don't buy it! Still don't buy it!
Kristin: I still don't think she buys it either.
Kate: Yeah. And he hasn't shown up for their date. And she does like a, "Oh does Mr. I-Don't-Even-Have-to-Show-Up-for-My-Date-or-Even-Call is he gonna be there?" And then she goes on this whole routine of "Don't even tell him I was here." [laughter] And it's so- It's such a good interaction. So good.
Jenny: Also, "Cordelia, you're like a great big cat." Pretty solid.
Kate: Mm-hm. So good.
Kristin: Right? And she's like, "That's my costume."
Kate: "That's my costume." [laughter] That was one of the lines I wrote down.
Kristin: "That's my costume"?
Kate: "Jeez, you're like a great big cat." "Yes, that's my costume." [laughter] Because then she immediately goes on to saying something else. But it's so perfect. [Kristin laughs] So perfect.
Jenny: Well timed.
Kristin: Oh, and Oz has these- You know, we've already seen him have his first few moments with Willow, like, "Who is that girl?" And we get that twice more in this episode-once when he can't even see her at all, and she's underneath a ghost costume.
Kate: I know. It's so good. They played that long game so well in this show, setting it up. And I remember being on pins and needles waiting for them to meet.
Kristin: Right? What's gonna happen? What is gonna happen? And, you know, this might not be chronologically perfect-
Kate: You can go back. I'm sorry. I skip around.
Kristin: No, no, I'm about to do the same thing, just 'cause now I'm thinking about Willow as the ghost. I just think maybe we should talk about Willow in this episode.
Kate: Oh my god.
Jenny: Great Willow episode.
Kristin: Well, you know, and something that obviously we're gonna talk about, I think, is the conversation around Halloween costumes. Because they really-
Jenny: Hmmm. [Kate laughs] Mm-hm.
Kristin: They really pull it out and say, you know, "Well, it's Halloween-" And the girls are saying this. Buffy's saying it to Willow, and- "Well, Halloween is a time when you can be something sexier than you are in everyday life."
Kate: Which also did not ring true as Buffy for me. Like, that felt out of character. That felt like a man wrote this. [Jenny laughs]
Kristin: Right. Right. Mm-hm!
Kate: A man is puppeteering it out of her mouth. Because Buffy doesn't seem like the kind of person who would pressure her friend to wear something sexy. I don't know. I mean, Buffy is sexy, but-
Kristin: Right. And also, Buffy doesn't seem to have any issue dressing as sexy as she wants. Like, she doesn't seem like somebody who's going- I mean, Willow certainly is more conservative.
Kate: Yeah. Like, I get her encouraging Willow to come out of her shell. That rings true for me. But when she's like, "Halloween's a time to be sexy," I'm just like, "Buffy. Come on." [laughter]
Kristin: Are you like, "Buffy," or are you like, "The patriarchy." [laughter]
Jenny: Hmmm.
Kate: There it is.
Kristin: There it is.
Kate: It tastes so sweet. [Jenny laughs]
Kristin: But it's an interesting conversation, I think, just in general. I think my big question is, if women wanna say "fuck it" on Halloween and wear something they wouldn't normally wear, is it problematic or is it… I don't know.
Kate: I don't- At this point in my life, I'm just like, whatever makes you happy, just do it and just don't be a jerk to other people.
Jenny: Yeeeeees.
Kristin: Right? But the way that it's normally spoken about is, it's so ridiculous that women use this holiday to wear nothing. That's the common, I think, talking point.
Kate: I mean I think it comes from both sides. There's definitely, like- It's not like women themselves came up with this. Like, they adhere to the costumes available. But if it makes you feel hot, and you wanna go out and hook up in your Halloween costume, do it. Have a great time!
Kristin: Right. Yeah, I take issue with the, you know, where they have two costumes side by side-
Kate: Oh yeah, that I hate.
Kristin: And it's like construction worker, and then it's like-
Jenny: Sexy-
Kristin: Construction workette! [laughter]
Kate: Yeah. Those are absurd, and I find them actually, very funny. It's one of my favorite things to do around Halloween. Especially, in Burbank there's a shop called Halloweentown Costumes which is just costumes. And walking around in there and seeing Mr. Crayon, and then Mrs. Crayon has boobs.
Kristin: Boobs! [laughs]
Kate: And is made of spandex. And I'm just like, okay. I actually, two years ago, almost went as sexy lady Edward Scissorhands [laughter] when I was still working on the Edward Scissorhands book.
Kristin: Oh my god. Wow.
Kate: I was just like, "This'll be great!"
Jenny: Wow wow wow.
Kate: But I backed down.
Kristin: I think last year I stumbled upon a Minions costume, but it was, like, for a lady-
Kate: Oh yeah. Hot minion.
Kristin: So it was like a bra-
Jenny: It was just a corset that looked like a minion?
Kristin: It was like a bra and each boob was a minion. [laughter] It was like-
Jenny: No!
Kristin: Yes! It was something ridiculous.
Kate: Oh, hell itself! [laughter] How can you take something as great as boobs and put minions on it? [laughter] God!
Jenny: And wait, aren't you pro-minion?
Kate: I'm… I'm agnostic.
Jenny: But you're more pro-boob than- Okay.
Kristin: Minion agnostic.
Kate: My mom loves minions, and anything that brings my mom joy is kosher with me. But, like- And I finally saw- there's a big thing in indie comics where everyone dunks on Minions.
Kristin: [laughs] Really?
Kate: Just everybody. It's just the thing, like Bee Movie. It's just memetic, you know? There'll be a period of time, and everyone's like, "They're so awful." But I watched Despicable Me finally, and I was like, "Oh, this is fine and cute." I don't care, really?
Kristin: Well, you heard it here first. Kate Leth, minion agnostic. [laughs]
Kate: Minion agnostic. [laughs]
Kristin: But anyway, getting back to Willow and her costume-
Kate: Oh man.
Kristin: She has this moment where she's like, "I'm gonna do it!" And she's too shy, and she puts her ghost costume on. Which, guys, is the ghost costume really have eye holes and a mouth hole cut in it, is that a thing?
Kate: I mean, you'd wanna be able to breath and stuff. I don't know. I don't know.
Kristin: I guess. It's just that my sister- So another question I have for everybody is their- Where am I going with saying my sister?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Well, my sister was dressed up as a ghost when she was a child. You know, and I say that 'cause she was so young that she really didn't have a say. And my mom took a sheet and she cut two eye holes and a mouth hole, and then she took a black ribbon and tied it so that it was cinched around her neck. And it was so bizarre. But then seeing the Willow ghost-
Kate: That's what Willow's- Yeah.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: Yeah! It was cinched around her neck and it had the mouth hole also. And it's just, in my life… in my brain, if you're gonna-
Jenny: Well, it's like, you cinch it around your neck to keep the sheet on you. And then you need a mouth hole 'cause it's cinched so close to your face that you don't have the breathing room.
Kristin: But when you and I were ghosts we had-
Jenny: Yes, when we took an actual bedsheet- [Kate laughs]
Kristin: We did. We didn't have costumes, so we just took our bed sheets and cut holes in them.
Kate: That's amazing. Everyone likes a classic.
Kristin: Right? Well, and that's what- I'm really-
Jenny: But we're adults. We were adults. We were able to maintain our sheets on our bodies.
Kristin: True. True.
Jenny: Not like a seven-year-old running around.
Kristin: Anyway, to blow all my questions that aren't about the episode in one shot, since we're talking about it-
Kate: Sure.
Kristin:- I wanna hear… I wanna hear your favorite or one of your best Halloween costumes.
Kate: [gasps] Oh man.
Kristin: And, Kate, you're like Halloween queen so…
Kate: I love Halloween. I… Yeah. Golly. I don't know. I've had a lot of good'uns.
Kristin: Yeah.
Kate: My problem is that I tend to wait until, like, three days before Halloween-
Kristin: Gah, don't we all?
Kate:- a nd then just come up with something. This past year I did two. 'Cause I went to a Stranger Things themed party, so I went as the wall. And I had the letters. [laughter] Well, I saw a lot of people doing it, so I was like, I have to do this differently than everyone else.
Kristin: Right. Of course! [laughter]
Kate: Obviously. 'Cause a lot of people did- They got a shirt that was the wallpaper and then they would write the letters and string the lights along. So I bought a dress and then bought adhesive velcro letters and covered the whole dress so that it was like the letters were a pattern.
Kristin: Ooooh!
Kate: And then I sort of wrapped myself in various arrangements of battery-powered string lights and put them in my hair and stuff.
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: So good.
Kate: I was hardcore into it. And then I was also Vaporeon, the Pokemon. And I made that costume.
Jenny: Oooh. Yes, of course. [Kristin laughs]
Kate: It's fun. It's fun. It's generational. [Jenny laughs] And yeah, so I constructed most of that out of felt. And it was very popular. People were really into it.
Jenny: What does Vaporeon look like?
Kate: Well, she's like a mermaid fox?
Kristin: Oooooh! Sold!
Jenny: Perfect!
Kate: Yeah, like a fox dog that has a mermaid tail, and there's spikes going all the way down the tail. And then she has these fins. One coming out of each side. I say her- Vaporeons, I suppose, can be any gender, but she seems very female to me. [Kristin laughs] Yeah, these sort of like fins coming out of either side of her head and then one on top. So I made this headband. Constructed it out of cardboard and felt and a lot of hot glue, and made that. People were very, very into it.
Jenny: Woah.
Kristin: Amazing.
Kate: That was this year. I'm trying to think of other years where I've done- Every year I have like four costumes, so…
Kristin: That's the way to do it. Because I always stress out because I have too many ideas, and then I wind up doing none of them because I get overwhelmed. But if I just did all of them.
Kate: I had one year where I went as Mystique from the X-Men.
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: Oh, nice! Yeah.
Kate: And she's all blue body paint. And I'm pretty good at makeup. I went to school for it. So I try to do costumes that rely on a lot of makeup, because it's a lot of fun. The problem is then I forget that it takes me four hours to get ready. [laughter] Which can be a pain. But I did one where I was Mystique, and I painted myself blue, and I had the outfit and everything. And then I went to the party and the makeup started to flake.
Kristin: Oh no! [laughs]
Kate: So what I did was I went into the bathroom and wiped off part of my face and then fixed it, and then wiped off the ends of my arms so that they were skin color. And I just told everyone I was Mystique mid-transformation.
Kristin: Nice! [laughs]
Jenny: Oh my god. [laughs]
Kate: It was my drunken fix.
Kristin: A great Halloween twist on Mystique. What about you, Jenny? What's one of your favorite Halloween costumes?
Jenny: Well, as we've discussed previously on the podcast, my mom made a lot of my costumes growing up.
Kristin: Right. So did mine.
Jenny: Nice. So there's a lot of sewing, lot of capes. Everyone knows this.
Kristin: Yes. Everyone is intimately familiar with your love for capes.
NOTES: [laughter]
Jenny: There was one year- I think my brother got it first, and then the next year it was my costume. That was a shark. A sort of vertical shark, so that there was a mesh circle where my face was, and that was inside of the open mouth, and that was ringed by teeth.
Kate: Nice!
Jenny: And there was a foam-supported sort of cone that went up.
Kristin: Wooow!
Kate: That's awesome.
Jenny: And then I had fins that were my arms. It was pretty tight.
Kristin: It sounds like an ideal Jenny Owen Youngs costume.
Kate: That's really good.
Jenny: I would like one now. I would like an adult-sized one. That would be ideal.
Kate: Yeah!
Kristin: Yeah! Well, I mean, Kate just went on and on about her skills at costume-making.
Jenny: Hmm!
Kristin: She mentioned felt and paint and-
Kate: Listen, if all it needs to be made of is cardboard, foam, and felt, I can do it.
Kristin: She's got you! [laughs]
Kate: As soon as sewing comes into play, I'm out! I can't do it.
Jenny: Right right right right.
Kristin: Nice.
Kristin: Jenny and I were- One of my favorite costumes is when you and I were X-Files.
Jenny: Oh, that was good.
Kristin: A couple of years ago where all we did was we took manila folders and cut eye holes in them. And Jenny knows a lot about The X-Files so she picked her two favorite-or two of your favorite episo-or files and wrote them on the thing and then did the really nice X on the manila folders. And that was it.
Kate: Oh, perfect.
Kristin: We were just regular people with our X-File faces.
Kate: But stuff like that always goes over so well.
Kristin: Yeah. It was a hit!
Kate: It's like the simple stuff that's different, you know? When you can do a costume really well that people are familiar with, and it's like "Oh yeah yeah yeah, great job." But when it's funny? That's the best. I love those. I'm bad at those but I appreciate them.
Kristin: I was most embarrassed as a child, and I think it was fifth grade, when again-another Halloween where I forgot what Halloween was until it was like two days before. My parents had also forgotten, and so everyone scrambled, and my dad decided that I would be a Christmas present.
Kate: Perfect.
Jenny: Why?
Kristin: He just put me in a cardboard box and wrapped it up. And I was just arms and legs sticking out of a cardboard box [Kate laughs] with a big tag that said "Do not open until Christmas."
Jenny: Noooooo. Oh my god.
Kate: But did it look better or worse than the kid in this episode [Jenny laughs] who may or may not have been dressed like Mr. Potato Head?
Kristin: Right? What is that kid?
Kate: What is that? It's, like, brown poster board.
Kristin: Yeah, He's one of Buffy's kids, right?
Kate: Yes.
Kristin: So if you wanna go back and look, if you missed it. Yeah, it actually reminded me of a costume that I wore that was a California raisin. [Jenny laughs]
Kate: Nice!
Kristin: But you could tell it was California raisin. I couldn't tell what this kid was.
Kate: No. He was a mystery.
Jenny: It kind of was like a poorly made cookie with a face.
Kristin: Yeah.
Kate: Something like that. It looked like it had eyelashes? I was very confused.
Kristin: Very confused. If anyone knows what that kid is supposed to be, please let us know. [laughter] Please let us know.
Kate: We skipped way ahead in this. [Jenny laughs] And I feel like there's so much- There's so much in the beginning of this episode.
Kristin: Oh, yeah.
Jenny: Yeah yeah yeah.
Kristin: We're going back. Don't worry. Don't panic.
Jenny: Everyone drinks cappuccino?
Kate: Yeah.
Jenny: Everyone's always drinking a cappuccino. I know that it's 1997…
Kristin: Yeah, I mean-
Jenny: But… every single person is always drinking a cappuccino. That's all.
Kate: This is also a very cappuccino-heavy episode.
Kristin: It is.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: But drinking coffee was totally a thing to do as a teenager. I drank a shit ton of coffee as a teenager. 'Cause what else were you gonna drink?
Jenny: I know I know I know, and cappuccino when you were a teenager was adult coffee but, like-
Kristin: Yeah, I never had cappuccinos.
Jenny: Really?
Kristin: No. As a kid? As a teenager? Never. Just black coffee, I thought was real fucking cool. I smoked cigarettes and drank black coffee.
Kate: Wow. I worked at Starbucks, so I would just make whatever. Yeah, I was a barista for many years.
Kristin: Starbucks didn't exist when we were teenagers.
Kate: I worked the first one in Nova Scotia, Canada.
Kristin: Oh, wow!
Jenny: What? Wow.
Kristin: Fancy.
Kate: I did. Yep. I was there the first year they were open. I quit my job at Build-a-Bear Workshop-
Kristin: Oh my god! Oh man!
Jenny: What?
Kate:- to work at Starbucks. I have done every job.
Kristin: So did you build the bears?
Kate: I assisted with the building of the bears.
Kristin: Holy shit!
Jenny: The whole point is you go to build the bear yourself.
Kate: Yeah, you build it yourself. But I get to help the kids stuff the bear and pick out what ridiculously priced outfits to put on the bear.
NOTES: [Jenny squeals]
Kristin: Incredible.
Kate: I was very goth at the time too, so it was kind of funny.
Kristin: Oh my god. I can't wait for you to watch One Day at a Time. There's a character just for you.
Kate: I'm excited. [Jenny laughs] I'm excited.
Kristin: I don't know that we've talked about it on the podcast, but Jenny and I are obsessed with One Day at a Time, the Netflix series.
Kate: The reboot.
Kristin: The reboot. Yeah. That's what you call it, right?
Jenny: Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Watch it! Yes. It's great! Yes.
Kristin: Watch it. Run, don't walk. You know what, in a couple of episodes we're just probably gonna go totally off script and just start talking about One Day at a Time. [laughter] A brief detour. I wanted to talk about this moment where- I think it's Willow that- Who says, "Poor Xander. Boys are so fragile."?
Jenny: Willow says that.
Kate: Willow says that. That was actually the next thing I was gonna segue into, is Xander's fragile masculinity-
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: No!
Kate: -is a key player in this episode. And I like that Willow calls it out, because it's so unsympathetic to me. Like, okay, so the scenario… [laughter] I can outline it. Yeah, basically, in the very beginning of the episode, before they really get into any of the Halloween stuff, Xander's trying to get a soda from the soda machine and does not succeed. And then… Larry, is his name?
Kristin: Larry, yeah.
Jenny: Ah yes, Larry.
Kristin: First time we meet Larry, right?
Jenny: I think so.
Kate: Maybe. Maybe? He might have shown up before. He comes up every once in a while. Yeah, he pops in and out. Anyway. So Larry, the hulking brute, [Kristin laughs] comes over and asks Xander if Buffy is single, and says that he's heard that she's "fast."
Jenny: [yells] Fast!
Kristin: Fast.
Kate: Which, is it 1956? Because I don't know.
Kristin: Right? Fast.
Jenny: Also, who'd he hear that from? She never hooks up with anybody.
Kate: Anybody! Ever!
Kristin: Right? You think it was Angel? Angel was like, "Hey, man"
Jenny: "What's up, Larry?"
Kristin: "Hey, Larry. I gotta tip for ya." [laughter]
Kate: Anyway, then Xander's like, "Hey, how dare you? I wanna sleep with her."
Kristin: God.
Kate: And he's so awful [Kristin laughs] just in the worst- just- "I'm back! Hi!" Just to maybe, like-
Jenny: You guys. You guys. I don't know. I feel like he's like, "Yo, that's my friend."
Kristin: No, he is- He has a good moment-
Kate: He does.
Kristin: -where he defends Buffy.
Kate: Yeah. But then he's also, like, weird. I don't know. Anyway.
Kristin: Jenny and I are in a- [Jenny laughs] tornado of Xander emails all the time.
Kate: I understand. Are people really heavily pro and con?
Kristin: People are… Yes. We lost our first listener- At least, we lost our first listener who told us.
Kate: Oh no! Were they very pro-Xander?
Kristin: They were very pro-Xander and couldn't take it anymore.
Kate: I stand by my fact that he has a lot of redeeming moments later on. But early Xander is very hard to take.
Jenny: I feel like he's already significantly better in this season than in season one.
Kristin: He is. And he continues- Right.
Kate: Oh yes. Yes. He gets a lot better this season.
Kristin: But I think that we talk a lot about the patriarchy in this podcast, and so some of our commentary on Xander is not specifically just about Xander. It's about some of the tropes that we see.
Kate: No. Not all Xanders.
Kristin: Right. Not all Xanders. [laughter] Yeah. It's about the tropes though, that we see in so much television, so much media, and in the world for real, in the real world.
Kate: But in the same way as he's terrible, it's also like, when you think about it from another perspective, they very nakedly show the horrible sides of teenage boys. Because he is that. You know? And he does grow, I think. And he does get better over time. And so I give the show that credit. But it's still hard to watch. So he, again, can't get his soda. This guy wants to sleep with his friend that he wants to sleep with. And then… He tries to challenge Xander, Xander grabs his shirt, and then Buffy comes up and puts him in an armlock. Bashes Larry against the soda machine. And then gets her soda and does a very cute, "Ooh, diet!" Which is great. And then Xander is furious, because she has emasculated him. Which, like, [sighs] get over it.
Kristin: Yeah, Xander's very upset. Get over it.
Kate: Get over it. But also, yeah-
Jenny: I feel like he's self-aware enough to be like, "I don't love this system, but I live in it, and I have to share a locker room with this guy."
Kristin: He is.
Kate: Yeah. That is true.
Kristin: Well, and that's the thing. If we're gonna come at it from both sides, it's like, you know, he's- Oh! There goes Patrol Cat!
Jenny: Patrol Cat!
Kristin: Oh my god, Patrol Cat must know when we do the podcast!
Jenny: Oh my god. Did you see Patrol Cat?
Kate: I did not see Patrol Cat, so I think you invented that cat.
Jenny and Kristin: Noooo!
Jenny: He walks by… He comes across our porch and walks by my window every day at dusk. It is great.
Kate: Oh, perfect. Cats do that. They have a routine.
Jenny: Cats and their plans. Their schedules.
Kristin: Many of our listeners have requested at some point to get-
Jenny: A Patrol Cat theme.
Kristin: Yeah, a Patrol Cat jingle. They're really after it.
Jenny: It could happen.
Kate: That's really great, and you should do it.
Kristin: Right?
Kate: Yeah.
Kristin: But anyway, so- Sorry. Xander is a hot-button issue here on Buffering the Vampire Slayer. [Jenny laughs]
Kate: But I also, like, I do agree with your point, and I hadn't thought about it that way, where he's like, "I exist within this system." Because later when it comes back around, when Buffy makes it up with him in the costume shop and says, "Next time I'll let you get pummeled," it's like, that's a sweet and very real moment.
Jenny: Yeah, it's kind of cute. Yeah.
Kate: I like that.
Jenny: Even Xander is a prisoner of the patriarchy.
Kate: That's true. It's very true.
Kristin: And there it is. There it is. That's exactly it. [Kate laughs] Nailed it, Jenny.
Jenny: Thank you.
Kristin: Yeah, you're welcome. All right, what're we gonna talk about next?
Kate: So much happens! So we move, kind of, from there into them going to the costume shop.
Jenny: Wait, you guys, before they go to the costume shop-
Kristin: Oh wait! No, no, no. The bathroom.
Jenny:- Buffy and Willow hatch a plan! Oh my god, but before that, they go to the bathroom?
Kristin: The bathroom!
Kate: Oh my god. No, no, no, even before the bathroom!
Jenny: They hatch the plan before the bathroom. [Kristin laughs]
Kate: They hatch a plan-
Jenny: To steal the book.
Kristin: Buckle up, everybody. It's a seven-hour episode!
Jenny: [Again, Jenny makes a sound that I'm honestly not sure how to describe.]
Kate: So much happens in this episode, and so much I had forgotten about. But they plan to go- Okay, 'cause Buffy wants to be more of what Angel wants, because she's a little jealous of this Cordelia situation. And so they decide- I don't know why I'm like narrating it. [Kristin laughs] Like, "Hi, this is- Welcome to my podcast!" [laughter] I just know this episode very well. [more laughter] So yeah, they're going to go sneak into Giles' office and steal the Watcher Diaries.
Kristin: Oh and we get this classic moment where their two little heads come up with the cat.
Kate: Yes. I also think that this scene where Buffy is trying to distract Giles [Jenny laughs] while Willow sneaks into his office is some of her best acting.
Kristin: It's so good. She goes through such a range of emotions.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah
Kate: "My god, what was I thinking?"
Kristin: So then they get the files, or did you have something before that?
Jenny: "Miss Calendar said you were a babe!"
Kristin: Oh right, of course. Oh and Giles gets so flustered. Oh my god! [Jenny laughs] Giles gets flustered later, I can't wait to talk about that. But then they go to the bathroom and the reason I wanted to talk about it is because it reminded so much of My So Called Life this scene.
Kate: Yes, I agree with that.
Kristin: They're sitting on sinks in the bathroom and it's this classic high school scene. Plus it's where Cordelia walks in.
Kate: Buffy and Willow have really good friendship stuff in this episode. They're very cute together and I really like that.
Kristin: Then we've already discussed it but I just want everyone to know that in all caps I've written 'Cordelia's bathroom outfit'.
Kate: Oh my god, I want to read aloud to you how I described this. Let mesee if I can find it. In all caps: 'Cordelia's outfit in the bathroom omg collared shirt, schoolgirl thing, burgundy sweater vest, short skirt, kill me to death'.
NOTES: [Kristin and Jenny laugh]
Kristin: On that note Kate, perhaps, I know you're here with us but I think it would be fun to talk about fashion and make sure that we get the jingle in here.
Kate: I think that would be real nice.
Kristin: Great.
NOTES: [Buffy Fashion Watch intro jingle plays] It's time for our friend Kate to give you the Buffy fashion update
Kate: Alright so we spend a lot of this episode in costumes but there's some outfits before- and we did talk about Cordelia's best outfit and it is her best outfit of the episode aside from her dress that she's wearing at the Bronze earlier.
Kristin: Oh right.
Kate: Which I think is very good. Buffy makes a fashion faux pas [Jenny laughs] in this episode.
Kristin: What does she do?
Kate: Okay so I was admiring- It's in the scene where Snyder volun-tolds them [Jenny and Kristin laugh] to be part of Halloween and taking the kids out. But she is wearing this tank top and I was thinking to myself I owned that exact tank top-
Kristin: Me too!
Kate:- when I was in high school where it's black and has this light brown piping, I don't know if it was a thing.
Kristin: And the piping does a particular thing, the piping separates in a particular way which is why I was like 'I had that tank top'.
Kate: I had that exact tank top but then we see her walking down the hallway and she is wearing it with ankle length plaid straight leg pants and clogs [Jenny and Kristin groan] which was not great.
Kristin: 'Cause I was okay with the plaid pants, I did not see the clogs.
Kate: The clogs were not very good. And I mean, I like her look in this outfit. It's some of Buffy's best hair. I also like her nude lip that she's wearing [Jenny laughs]. It's very good. [Kristin laughs] I mean the best outfit in this whole episode is obviously Willow's.
Kristin: Oh yeah.
Kate: Like what is that top?
Kristin: And do we think Willow has borrowed it from Buffy? Like is that a Buffy outfit on Willow?
Kate: I wondered about that, I feel like it might be because Buffy definitely wears pleather skirts like all the time.
Jenny: Yeah and they're at her place getting dressed.
Kate: But she's got this shirt that is nonsensical to me but is burned into my mind so intently that if I ever saw a human being wearing it, I would just die [Jenny and Kristin laugh].
Kristin: Yeah you would scream 'Willow'.
Jenny: And then crumble.
Kate: It's like this collared cross-tied crop top, tons of cleavage. Also, Willow is cut like a diamond! What the hell?!
Kristin: Yeah! Abs of steel Willow!
Kate: I've talked about this on Fashion Watch before how they always give her really childlike jewelry, everything's real baggy, her hair is really straight, they do everything they can to de-sex Alyson Hannigan who is super hot [Kristin laughs]. Which is so funny to me and in this you're like 'oh no', if she was like this all the time, how would we function?
Kristin: Yeah, she was just under those overalls you know?
Kate: And I love it and I think it's really amazing that she's just so uncomfortable with it. It's not like the second she puts it on she's like "oh I'm hot stuff", she's like "this isn't me". Yeah, pleather skirt, tights, Buffy style boots, which maybe they're her stylish yet affordable boots.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Oh my god, so many times we've seen those boots.
Kate: They're in every episode.
Kristin: They still surprise me, I'm like 'Oh my god, they're still here. They're still here.'
Jenny: Going strong.
Kate: The only things I wanted to talk about fashion-wise in terms of thecostumes: A) Cordelia's is incredible. I love the fact that her ears are a bow. That's a very cute choice [Jenny laughs].
Kristin: Nice, I didn't even realize that.
Kate: I love the huge scoop neck with the fur piping on that, super great. So there's some issues with the way the costumes work from Ethan's, 'cause some people's change completely. Some kids have a mask on and then they are literally a monster. There's a kid who we see dressed as a goofy costume Dracula and then he's a legitimate vampire when he transforms. Xander, I realized this for the first time actually watching this episode, Xander when they're in the shop, he buys the gun from Ethan's but he says "I have fatigues at home." So like, why then does he specifically become a soldier?
Kristin: Right.
Kate: It's just the gun? The rest of it is his right? And Cordelia doesn't change because she's in the Party City outfit. So I wondered about that. Also, Larry, when we see him later and he has his dorky pirate costume has become a real pirate, he's still just wearing a white t-shirt [Jenny laughs].
Kristin: Because what do pirates wear?
Kate: Just, what do pirates wear? And the thing that stood out to me more than anything in this episode in the outfits is that Buffy has this gown and I was looking up 1700s and 1800s gowns while we were watching this obviously.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kate: The basics are pretty on for the 1700s, it's obviously a costume. But the thing I hoped for even when originally seeing this is that when she transformed is that it would be period accurate as hell.
Kristin: Yeah, but it just stays the same.
Kate: It just stays the same but her hair changes to like this super goofy wig that doesn't look real when the first one she's wearing is gorgeous. Also when she's like "I can't afford this costume it costs too much money", that's a $300 wig that she's wearing. [laughter] It's absurd. It's so gorgeous, where did you get this?
Kristin: So what you're saying really is Ethan Rayne needs to kick it up a notch with his fashion specific magic.
Kate: I just want the rules to be consistent. That's all. Xander's fatigues become more real like, I don't know. It's all over the place. It was only the second season, their budget I'm sure was not incredible.
Kristin: Kate, thank you.
Kate: Those are my specific fashion thoughts.
Kristin: Thank you so much for your specific fashion thoughts live here in studio.
Jenny: Seriously [laughter].
NOTES: [Buffy Fashion Watch outro jingle plays] That was our friend Kate She gave you the Buffy fashion update
Kristin: Wow, thank you Kate.
Kate: You are very welcome. You know what, it's an honor. It's really an honor to be part of this.
Jenny: The honor is ours.
Kristin: Speaking of- yes.
Jenny: No please go ahead.
Kristin: Speaking of honors, we get to hang out with Drusilla for a little while.
Jenny: How many TVs are hanging from Spike's ceiling?
Kate: Who's paying for that power? What are they underneath?
Jenny: Unless they're stealing it.
Kristin: I always wonder about how vampires pay their bills, I do.
Kate: And also, are they underground? Are they not? I feel like later we see it and they're not. 'Cause they're in the factory?
Jenny: Yeah that's where they were with the Anointed One, right?
Kristin: Right.
Kate: No with the Anointed One they were under the church.
Kristin: Well they were, they were-
Kate: But in the end they were in the factory. I think Spike takes over the factory.
Jenny: Yes yes yes and then added some TVs.
Kristin: Which is like very 90s thing to do.
Jenny: I guess he's evil so he's stealing. Do you think vampires are just constantly stealing, doing identity theft vibes?
Kristin: I don't know, I think it could be that but I think it could also just be- I feel like they know how to short circuit things and tap into the power. I think they know how to get stuff.
Kate: My favorite thing about Spike is that he shows up and is like "Hey, you know Angel's style? What if I wore that but I looked a thousand times better?"
Jenny and Kristin: [in unison] Yeahhhh.
Kristin: Sorry Angel.
Kate: He really sticks in this season to his red shirt, black long jacket thing and his nails are painted.
Jenny and Kristin: [in unison] Mmph.
Kate: Which I have such a thing for and honestly looking back, I posted this on Twitter a couple months ago, looking back at Spike and Oz in this season, I was like 'oh, that's my root.' Like that's where that comes from [Jenny laughs].
Kristin: Right, totally.
Kate: Boys with painted nails, both Oz and Spike.
Kristin: I was super into boys with painted nails as well.
Kate: I am still today. You know, some things never die.
Kristin: Every line that comes out of Drusilla's fucking mouth-
Kate: She's perfect.
Kristin:- is perfect. But this line she has where she's like "[faux British accent] Do you love my inside parts? [regular voice] Or "do you love my insides, the parts you can't see?"
Kate: And then Spike says one of the greatest lines "eyeballs to entrails my sweet". [sigh]
Jenny: Greatest romance of all time.
Kristin: Right?
Kate: I put up there next to Casper's "can I keep you?" as like, if you were ever going to propose to me-
Kristin: Oh my god, oh man.
Kate:- [laughing] One of those two lines would probably work.
Kristin: Eyeballs to entrails for Kate Leth.
Jenny: Wow.
Kate: It's so cute. [Kristin laughs] It's horrifying but it's adorable which is this show in a nutshell, right?
Jenny: Oh yeah.
Kate: But they are perfect together. I love them.
Kristin: Dream fucking team.
Kate: I love how much he loves her. The thing comes up again and again and I know you guys have talked about it and I thought about it a lot about vampirism and how it changes you is very inconsistent. Because some characters become vampires and then are totally different soulless monsters whereas Spike and Drusilla are still in love, they have a lot of emotion, a lot of feelings.
Kristin: Yeah, totally.
Kate: So I really like them.
Kristin: I know normally we go in all sorts of directions for the sexual tension award but since we're talking about it…
Kate: Oh, oh. I know what it is.
Kristin: What is it?
Kate: It is Ethan Rayne and Giles.
Jenny and Kristin: Yes! [laughing]
Kate: Okay I wrote down- Because I literally wrote down 'sexual tensionaward no question: Giles and Ethan'. Okay so we first need to establish Ripper.
Kristin: Oh my god.
Kate: I remember watching this with my mother when I was a youth and my mother and I both having conniptions [Kristin laughs]. Because we had no idea and- yeah, so Giles [Jenny laughs] and Ethan, the evil costume man, have a history.
Jenny: And apparently Giles has a history of which we know nothing.
Kristin: Huge episode for Giles. Big reveal here.
Kate: So Ethan, in a trail off to commercial, is like [deep faux British accent] "Hello Ripper." [Jenny and Kristin laugh] And then Giles gets really serious and then Ethan starts talking about how they don't know the secret about Giles and he says [deep faux British accent] "I know who you are Rupert. And I know what you're capable of."
Jenny: Very romantic.
Kate: It is so hot!
Kristin: So sexy! So sexy.
Kate: And later, Giles kicks the shit out of him and it is also very hot.
Kristin: And also Ethan is kind of into it.
Kate: Yes he is!
Jenny: He's like "kick my kidney one more time."
Kristin: The last kidney kick, they pan to Ethan's face and Ethan's like "mwahahaha". [Jenny laughs]
Kate: He's in blissful agony.
Kristin: He is! He's like "there's my Giles." [Jenny and Kate laugh]
Kate: "You're back. Nobody does me like you." [Jenny and Kristin cackle]
Kristin: Oh great. Oh Kate, such a delight to have you in the room with us.
Kate: Hi, I'm a giant pervert [Kristin and Jenny laugh] But they are so good! Yeah this reveal on Giles which, they really haven't touched on that at all yet. This is the first time.
Jenny: No no. This is the first time we're getting keyed into the fact that maybe something might be going on.
Kristin: This is the first time we hear about Ripper and this is the first time we meet Ethan.
Jenny: Just after we see Ethan supplicating to Janus-
Kristin: Wow Jenny. Supplicating.
Kate: I really like how that word was used.
Jenny:- when Buffy is getting dressed with Willow and she's like "oh, Angel's not going to know what hit him, a blast from his past." 'Cause boys love it when you dress up like their ex for Halloween?? [Kate laughs]
Kristin: Yeah, solid point.
Jenny: Did nobody think about that?
Kate: That's such a teenage girl thing to do.
Jenny: Yeah I guess so.
Kristin: Yeah but also I hadn't thought about it like that at all.
Jenny: Right?
Kate: You're so right. This episode is a really interesting character thing because Buffy feels inadequate and yet she is the chosen one. But she still doesn't feel girly enough and that is kind of a great thing to deal with because it feels very real. Everybody's insecure about something.
Kristin: Exactly and I think that, right. People that hold enormous amounts of power often are burdened with even larger senses of self-consciousness and insecurities and what have you. These two things always coexist together. That no one except for maybe Spike [Kate and Jenny laugh] is just cool all the time.
Jenny: I don't know, Spike's not always cool. But we don't need to talk about that yet.
Kristin: Actually, maybe Drusilla. Drusilla I think is impenetrable.
Kate: She is always cool, always forever. Love her.
Kristin: Is it too much, do we have too many jingles in this episode?
Jenny: No definitely not. She earned it.
Kristin: She so earned it. Okay so dear Drusilla, I love you and I love Miss Edith and I love your relationship with Spike. Here you go.
NOTES: [Drusilla's jingle plays] Drusilla you fill up my heart with dread and still I'm led right back to you
Kristin: Thank you. Our Drusilla ringtone is not yet up on iTunes.
Jenny: Still processing.
Kristin: We are working so hard on getting it to you and to your phones as soon as possible but Cordelia, that ringtone is there for you. So if you want that to be the song you wake up to each morning, just head on over to iTunes and look up the Cordelia ringtone and there you will have it. Um, cool. So everybody turns into their costumes, right? We're at this part. There's a couple things I really need to discuss. One of them, I'm going to jump past some of what you need to discuss I'm sure but one of them is this fucking moment when Cordelia walks into the house. They're all boarded up and Xander's defending everyone and Buffy says something like "where are the men to protect us?" And Cordelia [Jenny and Kate laugh] just says "what's that riff?"
Kate: [laughing] I wrote that one down too.
Jenny: [laughing] It's so good.
Kristin: I laughed. I had to laugh for like a solid moment. I think it might be one of my favorite Cordelia moments to date for sure but maybe of all time. "What's that riff?" Fucking goddammit Cordelia.
Kate: This episode also has the runner that Cordelia doesn't yet know that Angel is a vampire and that's great. Does she even find out in the course of this episode? I don't know if she does.
Kristin: No.
Jenny: People keep telling her.
Kate: But she doesn't believe it.
Kristin: No, 'cause the last time she hears it is when Buffy is not Buffy and she's like "He's a vampire". Cordelia's like "Ugh, she has this whole thing. She thinks you're a vampire." So she still doesn't technically know and I actually don't remember when she finds out-finds out.
Kate: I don't know, it's not this episode.
Kristin: No, we'll see.
Jenny: Also they've got a great Xena Warrior Princess reference happening.
Kristin: Yes, yes. Which actually- so there's two writers on this show right? Joss and somebody else?
Kate: There's two different people that wrote this particular episode I think.
Kristin: Yeah that's what I mean.
Jenny: Wikipedia said just Carl Ellsworth, he's the writer.
Kristin: Oh, 'cause it was listed as- Maybe it's Joss is the creator and Carl Ellsworth and I read that right after this episode, he was fired [Jenny gasps].
Kate: What?
Kristin: And that then he went on to write many episodes of Xena the Warrior Princess.
Jenny: What??
Kate: That's incredible.
Kristin: I just got all my facts from IMDB so if they're wrong, I'm sorry [they all laugh].
Kate: That's totally fine, that would make me happy. It's one of the better episodes so…
Kristin: Yeah I know. I was confused like what happened? Who knows. We also get this great moment where Willow as Ghost Willow fucking walks into the library and startles Giles.
Kate: He doesn't even get a line in that scene! And his reaction is so perfect, he's just like "bwah bwah".
Kristin: The index cards!
Kate: Yeah, so everybody turns into their costumes and this is the thing that I always forget about. So Xander becomes his army boy for the first time which is a thing and Willow dies.
Kristin: Right!
Kate: Willow literally dies in this episode and it's never brought up again. So Willow and Buffy are shot for shot at this point. They've both died once. So Xander, catch up. [Jenny laughs]
Kristin: I would love to see little side episodes, just little shorts of some other people's stories. Like I would love to know what happened after that that old lady went back into her house after she got attached by the children, you know? Did she call anybody? What was her story?
Kate: I love imagining all that stuff in Sunnydale.
Kristin: Right, what happened next?
Jenny: How many people died? [Kristin laughs]
Kate: How many people were straight up murdered that Halloween? [Jenny and Kristin laugh]
Jenny: Some of them by children.
Kristin: But then everything goes back to normal and we're all fine. But right, so what else do we have left to talk about? This is where I stopped taking notes until the very end because everyone was furiously scrawling.
Jenny: Well there's this whole bit where Buffy is like "I was brought up a proper lady, I'm not meant to understand things" because of the patriarchy.
Kristin: Huge huge play on Buffy not Buffy here. Like the polar opposite opinions of old time Buffy versus new time Buffy.
Kate: Also her hilarious attempt at an accent is endearing.
Kristin: Oh boy, yeah. That's a thing.
Jenny: Yeahhh.
Kate: [Buffy's "British" accent] "These low creatures".
Kristin: We already blew past the scene with Buffy and Willow in the bathroom but there's also this harkening back where Buffy's like "oh I just want to be like an olden time person" and Willow's like "I don't know, I prefer the ability to vote".
Kate: [laughs] Which is so- that's so Willow. She's just great.
Kristin: Yeah, Willow's got her head on her shoulders.
Kate: It's such a good turning point episode for her. Like she comes out of just pining for Xander and being a sidekick and she gets a lot of good stuff but I think this is really where Willow comes into her own.
Kristin: Yeah and we talked about that last week too because in Reptile Boy, she has this moment where she lays into Giles and Angel [Jenny laughs] and tells them what the fuck is up. And I saw it as the moment when Willow was like 'I am here'. Now we've got Willow I think.
Kate: Yeah she's amazing. She's so good in this episode.
Kristin: She's so great. They all are.
Kate: Everyone's firing on all cylinders here for Halloween.
Jenny: Also Ethan gets so sweaty.
Kate: Oh yeah I wrote that down too in my fashion watch: 'why is Ethan so sweaty?'
Kristin: Is it part of the spell? Is it because there's so many candles burning in a closed small space?
Kate: There are a lot of candles.
Jenny: Or is he just working really hard on the magic?
Kristin: Or is it both? Or is he just thinking about Giles? [They all laugh]
Kate: Probably.
Jenny: I don't know what you guys think about this thing especially because I haven't told you what it is yet.
Kristin: Yeah, impossible to say.
Jenny: But this bit that Angel does about all noblewomen were simpering morons?
Kate and Kristin: [frustrated unison] Mmmmm.
Jenny: Not a great look Angel!
Kate: Not a great look. Way to bolster a girl's confidence by insulting other women.
Kristin: Yeah and I feel like I saw what was being attempted here which was to say "I like when women are strong and smart and do things and have opinions of their own" which is cool but definitely was not phrased in a way that was helpful to anyone. 'Cause guess why those other women didn't have things to say? [Kate laughs] It's because they were never educated or talked to or let to speak. It's because of the patriarchy, there I fucking said it.
Jenny: [softly] Oh the patriarchy.
Kristin: I said it Angel.
Kate: It's come up so many times in this episode that if you forget it for the next five-[Jenny laughs]
Kristin: I know and it did last week too. So much patriarchy in Reptile Boy and Halloween.
Kate: Yeah it's a really awkward thing because he's trying to be- I get the sentiment. She was feeling insecure, they have this breakdown at the end of the episode- Oh, Buffy in her tank top and her fucking sweatpants.
Kristin: Oh my god.
Kate: She's so cute!
Jenny: Her sweat pants that are like cuffed? She cuffed them?
Kristin: They look great.
Kate: They're perfect.
Kristin: I'm into it.
Jenny: I know you are.
Kate: And he's just staying over at her house?
Jenny: Where's Joyce? At the gallery? Still?
Kristin: The whole episode Joyce is missing. Also, this scene between Buffy and Angel, when they pan in Angel is like [starts laughing] 'draw me like one of your French girls' [they all laugh].
Jenny: Sprawled across the bed with half of his shirt buttons undone.
Kate: Buffy also does a really incredible move where she sidles up to him and shows him her neck that is a little much for me to take.
Kristin: Yeahhh, Buffy really goes for it.
Jenny: Do you think she's showing him her neck in like a vampire way?
Kate: It's something.
Kristin: We had a question last episode- well not a question but we made fun of Buffy for this line that she had where she said "when you kiss me, I want to die" and she runs away. And a lot of people have written in us to say like 'no guys, that was a play on like- she wants to be sired by him, she wants to become a vamp. You know, she wants to die so she can be with him forever' which I did not pick up on.
Kate: I feel like it's a double meaning. I don't know if it specifically means that cause I know the exact line and the way that she says it [Kristin laughs].
Jenny: Of course you do.
Kate: No big deal but I think the way I always read it was that it's a feeling that was so overwhelming that she just can't process it, rather than 'I want to be a vampire'. But there's elements of that in there too.
Kristin: And if you're going to read it that way then you can certainly read this moment as the baring of neck. And it's also a sexual thing, we've talked about that before, that like vampires feeding off of people is pretty sexual. [slight lisp] Death is really sexy guys. [normal voice] But it is, it's like they're drinking your blood, there's an exchange of fluids, you know.
Kate: Well she's coming into her own too like she's very crushy in the first season but she starts to become a much more sexual being in this one [Jenny laughs] I know she's a teenager but the actress was not. It's weird. It's tricky territory because I think she's seventeen at this point?
Kristin: Buffy is seventeen? Uh, yeah cause she turns eight- does she turn eighteen in this season?
Kate: I think so.
Kristin: Or does she turn seventeen in this season?
Kate: I think she turns eighteen. I don't know, I could be wrong. But yeah, she definitely is a little more like- [Jenny laughs] Just looking for it.
Kristin: And this scene I felt was a departure from a lot of the other interactions that we've seen between her and Angel because she's really confident and very at ease.
Jenny: Yeah they're just acting like they're dating for the first time ever when we saw them last week being like "Uh, ugh, coffee? You want to date? You don't want to date? Mehhh."
Kristin: And part of me thought like maybe it's because this fight has just happened and it's like- you know like after a good fight? [laughing] You know, you guys know.
Kate: They got the endorphins up. I almost wondered too if the breaking of the tension- because so much of this episode's tension is Buffy trying to live up to his expectations and Buffy trying to appeal to what he likes and then they go through this whole thing and then they have this very real like "No, I like you" so maybe that's what breaks and they're able to have this more sentimental and a little sensual moment.
Kristin: Yeah, they got some good kissing. Angel held it together, his face didn't change. [Jenny laughs]
Kate: It's true, it's true.
Jenny: Loud kissing. No music.
Kate: Yeah it's a little weird. It's a little weird that part.
Jenny: Just get some kind of instrumental under there.
Kristin: Yeah, I mean last week Angel did say it was going to get out of control. [Jenny laughs] We're just leading up to that place Jenny.
Jenny: Ok, ok
Kristin: Anyway after this kiss, we go to the costume shop right? That's the last scene?
Jenny: Is it the last scene?
Kate: No, there is a very very important scene in between-
Kristin: [gasps] Excuse me, I'm so sorry.
Kate:- where Willow wakes up from her death, takes off her ghost costume to reveal her hot goth costume underneath [Jenny laughs], and then is like 'you know what? I'm going to own this' and walks across the street in a confident way we've never seen before. And who should spy her-
Jenny: What are the odds?
Kate:- but Oz.
Kristin: But Oz and his van from the UK?
Kate: It's zebra striped all over, it's fantastic.
Kristin: Yeah and the steering wheel is on the wrong side.
Kate: Oh yeah, it is!
Jenny: Or the wrong side for America, the different side.
Kristin: Sorry, I'm sorry. The different side.
Kate: Right. The crime side here. He sees her in his headlights and does his [they all say in unison] "who is that girl?" And I can almost see my own facial expression at age 12 or whatever I was when I first saw this just being like [dramatic gasp] 'I feel a change'. Then we go to the costume shop.
Kristin: Costume shop is emptied, Ethan Rayne is gone. But he had time before he left to write one tiny note [they all laugh] to Giles.
Jenny: 'Kisses Ripper'.
Kristin: [laughs] 'XOXO, miss you babe'. Or "be seeing you…"
Kate: And then Giles, breaking tradition with the show in general [Jenny gasps], looks into the camera and breaks the fourth wall in a very erotic last show of Secretary kind of way [Jenny and Kristin laugh] which shows more about me than anything else but it's amazing? It's so silly. And it lingers for two to three solid seconds.
Kristin: You know what, all you GIFers out there, could you please make us agif of that? Please that moment of Giles, that little shifty-eye sexy [laughing] Ripper moment that we get at the end so we can share it with everybody? We'd appreciate it, thank you.
Kate: [softly] It's very good.
Kristin: It's very good. Ah this episode.
Kate: It's incredible.
Kristin: It was a joy. I felt like we were in a theater full of fifty people, like we were so loud all of us. We could not stop [Jenny laughs] hooting and hollering and screaming at characters. It's just a great time all around and Kate, it was such a great time to have you in the room with us for this.
Kate: Anytime.
Jenny: Seriously.
Kate: It is so much fun, I love to be here, I love that you put up with me [laughing] speaking lines along with the characters every once in a while.
Kristin: I was so impressed, I was like I want to be like Kate someday. I want to know all the lines.
Kate: Uh, watch Buffy from the time you are like nine [they all laugh] constantly until now.
Kristin: I got a few years.
Kate: I believe in you
Kristin: I got a few years to go but one day I might know some lines too.
Jenny: Hey, thank you so much for listening. I am Jenny Owen Youngs and when I'm not watching Buffy, I am hanging out, writing songs, making records, whatever. You can learn more about me at www.jennyowenyoungs.com/buffering where I have curated a playlist of non-Buffy songs just for you. And you can give me a shout on Twitter at @jennyowenyoungs.
Kristin: And I am Kristin Russo, you can follow me on Twitter at @kristinnoeline. I talk about all manner of things over there but if you want to find out more about my work with LGBTQ youth and their families, you can check all of that out at www.everyoneisgay.com and www.mykidisgay.com.
Kate: I'm Kate Leth still and always and when I'm not doing Fashion Watch for your delightful and perfect podcast [Jenny laughs] which I will hopefully do until the end of time, I write animation and comics. That is what I do. You can find me, my rants, and my opinions on the TV show Riverdale on Twitter [Jenny and Kristin laugh] at @kateleth. Kateleth.com, you can find pretty much everything that I do and I have a Patreon where I make comics about my feelings and that's www.patreon.com/kateleth and you can join that for $1 a month.
Jenny: It's a bargain.
Kristin: Don't we subscribe to each other?
Jenny: Yes! I love Kate's comics! [they all laugh]
Kristin: Aww, you guys are so cute. Buffering's Patreon needs to subscribe to Kate's Patreon.
Kate: We'll just make this a big incestuous mess.
Kristin: A big triad, I don't know.
Kate: The only last thing I was going to say is that if you like witches and things like Buffy, I have a comic coming out right now that is just ending I think the day this episode comes out called Spell on Wheels, it's a five issue series about witch-sister friends going on a road trip of revenge against a shitty ex-boyfriend.
Jenny: What??
Kate: It finishes with issue 5 then the book is going to come out in June. But I think it has a very similar vibe, I'm really proud of it, and it is hella gay.
Kristin: What a dream. It's like Thelma and Louise, but witches.
Kate: Yeah basically the pitch was that it was like Josie and the Pussycats witches.
Kristin: So great. Run, don't walk to check that and all else that Kate does out. You are a dream.
Kate: Thank you, you as well.
Kristin: Then of course, we have a Patreon, should I talk about that now? Is that out of order?
Jenny: Go for it.
Kristin: Jenny looked at me like 'chaos!' [Jenny makes anxious sounds] You looked at me like Giles did at Willow when she walked through.
Jenny: Did Ethan Rayne cast a spell up in here?
Kristin: [laughs] But we do have a Buffering Patreon and we do all manner of things over there. For all of our patrons which are a $1 or more, you can hang out with us on live Buffy watches, we also offer the mp3s of the songs of every week to our $5 patrons or higher. It's super fun and a huge thanks to so many of you. We're almost three-quarters of the way to our first goal.
Kate: Yay! That's so exciting.
Kristin: Yeah, it's been really really fun. It's a fun little community.
Kate: Patreon is the best.
Kristin: It is.
Jenny: It's pretty great.
Kate: It is allowing me to not do work that I don't want to do and live financially stable a little bit. It has changed the game.
Kristin: Right? Supporting the arts in a time when the arts are directly under fire.
Kate: It feels really good to have people supporting and me being able to say whatever I want.
Kristin: Yes, what a well-put phrase.
Jenny: Sooooo…
Kristin: Oh by the way, that's www.patreon.com/bufferingcast. I don't know if I said where you can find it.
Jenny: Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on Twitter at @bufferingcast, on Facebook at www.facebook.com/bufferingcast, you can also email us at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin: But on that note, I should let you know that next week is a mailbag episode for us and we have so much awesome mail to talk about. Just tons and tons so keep it coming. If we don't get to it this time, we'll try to get to it in the next mailbag episode, it's going to be real fun.
Jenny: Also, if you like things, physical things, things for your body, things to pin to your bag, things that are representative of your enthusiasm about our show, you can just go to www.bufferingthevampireslayer.com and click on Store and you'll find shirts with our podcast logo designed by Kristin Thune and also the amazing Slayerette and Cordette pins designed by Kate Leth who you may have heard talking for the last hour.
Kristin: May or may not.
Jenny: Remember her? She's great.
Kate: They're very good.
Kristin: They're great. They're gorgeous.
Jenny: They're beautiful. They are a treasure. So go there and get them and thanks again for listening and until next time…
All: Awooooooooo. [Jenny performing "Halloween" off the album "Songs from Season Two" by Buffering the Vampire Slayer] Halloween (Halloween) It's supposed to be a slow night Giles promised it'd be no night For vamp activity But somebody (somebody) Had a differing opinion Janus' devoted minion came to Sunny D And brought some anarchy It's the big Halloween switcheroo It's the big Halloween switcheroo You don't even know who you're gonna be It depends where you got your costume, you see It's the big Halloween switcheroo Noble gal (noble gal) That's the costume I showed up in Looking like Angel's ex-girlfriend Boys just love that right? Cordelia (Cordelia) Is somehow cattier than ever In a leotard of leopard Hey where'd Willow go? She vanished like a ghost It's the big Halloween switcheroo It's the big Halloween switcheroo You don't even know who you're gonna be It depends where you got your costume, you see It's the big Halloween switcheroo And then the change I became completely helpless Just a damsel in my distress At Spike's mercy or Lack thereof of course All my friends Came together to my rescue Held me up till I came back to all the sense I lost Kristin hit that Glock! It's the big Halloween switcheroo It's the big Halloween switcheroo You don't even know who you're gonna be It depends where you got your costume, you see It's the big Halloween switcheroo What became of Ethan Rayne and the chaos god he served? And when the heck will Oz find out "who is that girl?" (Mmm, that girl) It's the big Halloween switcheroo It's the big Halloween switcheroo You don't even know who you're gonna be It depends where you got your costume, you see It's the big Halloween switcheroo Yes it's the big Halloween switcheroo Yeah it's that big Halloween switcheroo