Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 2.02: Some Assembly Required
Jenny: Hey friends in the Los Angeles area, we just want to remind you, we will be doing a live taping at the NerdMelt Showroom in Los Angeles on February 2. For tickets and more information please visit nerdmeltla.com
Kristin: Today we are so excited to have TWO, count them, two guests with us on our show.
Jenny: Two?
Kristin: Two! Cameron Esposito and Rhea Butcher -
Jenny: Whoa
Kristin: Who are brilliant comedians, badass feminists, wives to each other. You may know them from a wonderful show called "Take My Wife."
Jenny: Mmm-hmm
Kristin: You may know them from a podcast called "Put Your Hands Together."
Jenny: Mmm-hmm
Kristin: You may know them just because they're the best. And we're going to sit down with them and talk to them for the whole episode today.
Jenny: We are so pumped.
NOTES: [THEME MUSIC]
Jenny: Hello and welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast where we'll be watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, one by one. I am Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: And I'm Kristin Russo and this week we're talking about Season 2, Episode 2, "Some Assembly Required." Stay tuned at the end of this podcast every week for an original song written by us recapping the Buffy episode that we're discussing.
Jenny: "Some Assembly Required" was written by Ty King, directed by Bruce Seth Green who is not Seth Green, he's a whole other person, and originally aired on September 22, 1997.
Kristin: This is the one where two science club nerds use body parts to create the, quote, "perfect girlfriend" [Jenny laughs under Kristin] for a teenager who has been brought back from the dead. I want everyone to know that on the IMDb description there's a tiny image, and the tiny image is the picture from the inside of the locker that's like all of the cut out pieces of magazine body. That's the image for this episode, so.
Jenny: If a ransom note was just a picture of a girl.
Kristin: [chuckles] yes. Yes, exactly.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: So, there's a small, small dog sitting next to me, with his sweet, little head, lying on my lap.
Jenny: What's that dog wearing?
Kristin: A very beautiful Christmas sweater. A very nice Christmas sweater. Um.
Jenny: Who'd that dog come with?
Kristin: The dog, right, did not come alone.
Jenny: He can't drive.
Kristin: This dog's name is Murph. Oh my gosh. He knows I'm talking about him. He's making little movements like he knows.
Jenny: Wow
Kristin: And Murph's, Murph's parents are, uh, Cameron Esposito and Rhea Butcher who are here with us!
Cameron: Yay!
Jenny: Hooray!
Rhea: Yay!
Cameron: You guys, this is so fun already.
Rhea: He did drive us here though.
NOTES: [Jenny and Kristin both laugh]
Rhea: He can't drive alone.
Jenny: Does he have is permit, is that the deal?
Cameron: [Laughs] Yeah.
Kristin: Oh no, imagine a little license with Murph's picture on it.
NOTES: [Jenny laughs]
Cameron: Also, he'd have to have such a small car, it's hard to figure out how we would fit in it. [Kristin and Jenny both laugh]
[Rhea]: Yes
Cameron: I think maybe we were being towed behind. [Kristin and Jenny both laugh]. Cause it's a small car but it's heavy so it's got like good traction -
Kristin: Right.
Cameron: And it can pull a decent -
Jenny: It's the tugboat of cars
Kristin: Right, right. It's the teeniest little car pulling the two of you, just in two seats.
NOTES: [All laughing]
Kristin: Ahh, well thanks for being here, guys!
Rhea: Thanks for having us.
Cameron: Oh ya know, it's fun to have an excuse to hang out with pals!
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: This is great. We almost didn't make it to the taping of the actual episode [Jenny laughs] 'cause we just wanted to talk all night long.
Jenny: And also there was a hat on a dog situation.
Kristin and Rhea: Yeah
Rhea: Check my instagram for that.
NOTES: [Kristin and Jenny laugh]
Cameron: You're instagram! I took a picture!
Rhea: I took one too.
Cameron: Check out my instagram.
Kristin: Oh this is -
Rhea: I posted it faster.
Cameron: Oh no -
Kristin: Like, like a mirror.
Cameron: Wait, you already posted it?!
Rhea: Oh yeah.
NOTES: [Kristin and Jenny both laugh]
Cameron: Rhea! Rhea!
Rhea: Cameron!
Cameron: I am so upset. I'm actually like genuinely upset, and probably, ya know -
Rhea: Uh, it's a big problem.
Kristin: We understand
Rhea: You can get another angle; you have more followers than I do.
Cameron: Yeah, that's why I am supposed to
Kristin: Can I tell you something?
Cameron: Yes.
Kristin: Can I tell you something, Cameron?
Cameron: Yes, yes yes
Kristin: I - I often find that posting second is better, um, although Instagram's new algorithm is messing things up, but I find posting second is better because people see it first.
Cameron: Oh Oooooo!
Kristin: Yeah
Cameron: I get it, yeah -
Kristin: 'Cause it, yeah, it's mmm hmm
Cameron: That's right, you're just copying me, Rhea!
NOTES: [Kristin and Jenny laugh]
Cameron: In the future -
Rhea: As always.
Cameron: - In the future.
Kristin: So, this is really fun because, um, Cameron you are familiar with the series.
Cameron: Yes I am
Kristin: However, Rhea, this is the first episode you've ever sat and watched.
Rhea: It's honestly the first time I've ever, from my recollection, that I've sat down and watched an entire episode. I am aware of it. I know the characters in it.
Kristin: Mmm hmm
Rhea: I've heard synopsis [sic] of many episodes -
NOTES: [Kristin and Jenny laugh]
Rhea: - I've just literally never watched it.
Cameron: Was it from me though?
Kristin: I was gonna say, from Cameron?
Rhea: No, from multiple people
Cameron: Oh
Rhea: You and other people. My, uh -
Cameron: Mmm hmm, I'm just in a line of people
Rhea: - No. My maid of honor's a huge Buffy fan. She was a huge Buffy fan. In fact she lent me the box set and was like, "Look, you should watch this. You're probably not going to, but now you have no excuse. [laughs] And then it just sat on my shelf until I went away to grad school.
Cameron: Well this show was really important to me when I was in high school, even though it was really scary to me and I could barely watch it, I still watched it because -
Rhea: [laughs] she's scared of everything.
Cameron: - I liked special effects a lot. And there's really cool special effects makeup in this -
Kristin: Mmm hmm
Cameron: - and everything is practical effects because, like, computer animation didn't really exist -
Rhea: [laughs] - in 1997.
Cameron: And that's really cool. I also love stunting -
Kristin: Uh huh
Cameron: - You know, people that are stuntin' around and doing stunts.
Kristin: [laughs] stuntin' around
Cameron: There are a lot of cool stunts in this television show. And there's also a lot of queerness throughout the whole thing.
Kristin: Yeah
Cameron: All characters. All characters, all situations. I think it's one of the first shows on television that really just showed non - traditional relationships, whatever they might be. Yeah and so, that was kind of awesome to me.
Kristin: So, so you watched this in high school but you haven't seen it since?
Cameron: I haven't seen it since, and I will say watching this one episode, like it's so weird -
NOTES: [Jenny laughs]
Cameron: - That they are children. Like it's so weird that they are young people.
Kristin: Correct, 'cause they last time you watched it, they were you.
Cameron: They were… they were me/older, cause they playing High Schoolers and I was really - You know in 1997 I was a freshman in high school. September, I was - I mean I - I probably, wasn't watching this 'cause I was going to high school for the first time and losing my mind, and so therefor not watching Buffy the Vampire Slayer for like a minute while I lost my mind.
Jenny: Why were you losing your mind in high school? Was your school built on top of a mystical convergence of evil? That would periodically open?
NOTES: [Kristin laughs]
Cameron: Yeah, what was going on was there was like all these people kind of escaping and they just had like different sorts of heads and sometimes like, it's like their brow would get very heavy at a certain time and then it like this sorta tooth would come out.
NOTES: [All laugh]
Cameron: No, for different reasons. I think that I was a small gay person and I went to a really conservative Catholic High School and I was just trying to figure out how to do anything.
Jenny: Did you feel like you had a secret identity that you couldn't share with your peers?
Cameron: Absolutely. Well, I didn't know I was gay, but I did know that, like, this show really meant something to me. I would watch this show with my boyfriend, my boyfriend would watch this show with me. He was really patient boyfriend.
Jenny: Mmm hmm. Mmm hmm. Yes!
NOTES: [Kristin laughs]
Cameron: This episode is also about, like, a high school football player.
Kristin: Which was your boyfriend?
Cameron: My boyfriend was a football player. And I did turn to Rhea during the middle of the episode when they, when there's a mom who rattles off the stats of the football player. I'll tell you when we get to that part in the podcast, But -
NOTES: [Kristin and Jenny laugh]
Cameron: - His stats are like, not that great.
Kristin: Wow!
Rhea: So funny what a perfect overlap of stuff that I'm not into or wasn't into in this episode. 'Cause you were like very into this show; I wasn't into it, not on purpose, and then I hated football, so, there you go.
Jenny: Why? Like were there other, were you more into other sports at the time?
Rhea: When I was in high school I was anti - sports. I was really into basketball, like playing it, and then I quit the team, 'cause I, for whatever reason, was getting benched and I thought I was a better player on the team. And so then I decided to go all - in in skateboarding, and was like punk - rock and an artist.
Jenny: The other football.
Cameron: Here's what's going on: Rhea was like a bad - boy, and I was the high school mascot. We were exactly opposite people. But I was really nice!
NOTES: [Kristin & Jenny laugh]
Rhea: But I didn't go to any games until my senior year because then I felt "Ehh, I should maybe go to this." But I just like wasn't into it at all.
Cameron: And I planned every single dance. And decorated the -
Kristin: Also, were you actually the high school mascot?
Cameron: Yeah, I was.
Jenny: What?
Kristin: 'Cause you, you said it, but I feel like if they're listening, people listening might think you were being -
Cameron: And I was a red - bird. I'm not being funny.
NOTES: [Jenny laughs]
Cameron: I was a red - wing, which is a red bird. But then I also, like, played -
Kristin: Wow.
Cameron: I was a three - sport athlete. I played - and I also like decorated the gym for all the school dances and was like on student government. I was the president of the spirit club -
Rhea: That's weird
Cameron: - Which means that I ran the flag back and forth when my boyfriend scored a touchdown. Like, you know the person that runs the giant flag?
Jenny: No!
Kristin: Yeah right, no!
Jenny: [laughs] That is not…
Rhea: So wait, wait you ran the flag AND you were the mascot? Those are two different jobs!
Cameron: Well the mascot didn't always travel to away games.
Rhea: So, then you did because you had the flag? Oh my god.
Cameron: So then I was just myself. That's right.
Jenny: But how could you be a three - sport athlete and also be the mascot? Like did you have to do double duty?
Cameron: Friday night - You're gay and you're not having any sex so you have so much time! You have so much time.
NOTES: [All laugh]
Jenny: But like what is the actual time management of that? Does that mean the mascot just doesn't go to women's sports. Is that the deal?
Cameron: Yeah, yes!
Jenny: 'Cause that'd be silly.
Cameron: Wait. Wait! Jenny, what are you talking about? That's your confusion?
Jenny: I know, I know, I know. I dunno -
Cameron: The mascot doesn't go to women's sports!
Rhea: Jenny that's a great question! No, it's only for men's basketball -
Jenny: Only for "real" sports.
Cameron & Rhea: - and football.
Rhea: The sports that people care about. Women's basketball, which I played, has no mascot.
Kristin: Wow!
Rhea: And sometimes the games are at 5pm! [Kristin & Jenny laugh]
Kristin: Wow! Wow! Great stuff.
Rhea: On a Tuesday!
Cameron: Yeah, so I was -
Kristin: You know what it sounds like we're talking about? The Patriarchy.
Rhea: It does!
Jenny: Ah! The Patriarchy! Oh, I had it marked for later.
Kristin: And it happens so easily.
Cameron: Well also I was swimmer during football season, right 'cause they both happen in the fall.
Rhea: And I don't know how to swim.
Jenny: Wha -
Cameron: it's true. She doesn't know how to.
Rhea: Well I thought I did.
Jenny: That isn't safe!
Kristin: Wow, you really are the inverse of each other.
Rhea: I thought I did but then we went on vacation with each other which is, in all honesty, the first time I ever went on vacation [laughs]. And we went to Palm Springs and we got in the pool and Cameron was like, "Oh, sweetie, you don't know how to swim." [Cameron laughs.] And I was like [in a southern drawl] "I thought I did!" [Everyone laughs.]
Jenny: Oh no!
Rhea: I mean, I can kind of like - I don't even know if you could call it a dog paddle.
Kristin: But you can like stay afloat.
Rhea: Kind of, yeah. I don't really like the deep end 'cause I could drown.
Kristin: - well not with Cameron around! [Kristin and Rhea speak over each other.]
Rhea: And one time Cameron - no!
Cameron: I was a lifeguard!
Kristin: Yeah!
Rhea: I started drowning in Hawaii and she was like, "oh, stop, you're not drowning." [Jenny and Kristin laugh.] And I was like, "that's kind of the definition of drowning, is - I can't stop it."
Cameron: No, no, no [under Rhea]. After the fact, she was like, [Rhea laughs] "remember when I just drowned?" [Everyone laughs.] And I said, "you didn't drown -
Jenny: If you drowned you'd be dead.
Cameron: - because. Yeah -
Kristin(?): Right.
Cameron: - we wouldn't be having this conversation.
Rhea: Oh, I did - that's not the bone you were picking -
Cameron: And she said I was saying, "I'm drowning! I'm drowning!" [Laughs in background.] And I said, "right, which means you're not drowning." [Cameron laughs.] 'Cause if you're drowning -
Kristin: [Laughs.] You're not saying -
Rhea: - sorry, I meant to call out, "I'm pre - drowning!" [Everyone laughs.] "I'm pre - drowning!"
Kristin: "I am about to drown."
Rhea: "I'm pre - drowning! I apologize - I didn't have the presence of mind because I thought I was about to die. [Everyone laughs.]
Rhea: [Laughing.] Because I cannot swim.
Kristin: [Laughing.] Ohhh. [Cameron laughs.]
Kristin: I'm glad you survived.
Rhea: Me too! [Laughs.] Glad I lived to tell the tale. [Cameron, Jenny and Kristin laugh.]
Kristin: So Rhea, what are your thoughts on your first episode of Buffy the Vamp -
Rhea: On the episode?
Kristin: Yeah! I mean, how did it feel for you knowing nothing?
Rhea: I doubt it - yeah, I mean I thought it was really funny and it was really enjoyable seeing all those clothes again. [Kristin groans in agreement. Jenny laughs.] Man, were those some billowy shirts. [Laughs in the background.] And like, unbuttoned so far down [Jenny laughs.] toply buttons down
Kristin: Yeah. Angel went real far down with his buttons -
Rhea: Yeah.
Kristin: - in this episode. Also, I have a costume note for later in the episode but since we're talking about dress, I'll bring it up now. [Cameron laughs.] When they go to the football game - I don't know if anybody else noticed Jenny Calendar's belt.
Rhea: Oh yeah. [Jenny gasps.]
Kristin: It was very special.
Rhea: Yeah.
Kristin: I actually drew a picture in my notes.
Cameron: Oh, I would like to see the picture.
Kristin: - lest I forget.
Cameron: Yeah.
Rhea: It also looks like something you could maybe hang a plant with. [Laughing in background.]
Kristin: This is not -
Rhea: That hangs from the ceiling in the 70s.
Cameron: Well, you know what though?
Kristin: This is my picture.
Cameron: - seeing. Oh yeah, totally.
Kristin: Yeah. [Cameron and Kristin laugh.]
Kristin: Circles and lines.
Cameron: Well Rhea, it was fun to watch you laugh at it and I remembered - 'cause before we watched, I was like, "it is really funny - like it is kind of a comedy." And I was realizing that like before Gilmore Girls -
Rhea: - yeah.
Cameron: - this is the show that everybody talked about in terms of its writing.
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Cameron: Like it really set the stage for that. What was before this show? Can you guys think of it? What would it have been before this?
Kristin: Like what was the big -
Rhea: Friends?
Kristin: No, Friends -
Cameron: No, because Friends doesn't really do that thing - the thing that this show does so well that then people loved about Gilmore Girls is that half the jokes are not delivered with any sort of weight and you're just supposed to kind of keep -
Rhea: - keep up -
Cameron: - moving.
Jenny: Right, right, right, right.
Kristin: Yeah, they're almost like the transition between things.
Cameron: It was fun to watch that again.
Cameron and Rhea: Yeah.
Kristin: - the joke. It's like they say the joke and then they're like, "anyway, onto the next thing."
Cameron: The camera doesn't even stay on them or whatever.
Jenny: Yeah.
Cameron: It's cool.
Jenny: When - what year did West Wing start?
Kristin: I don't know.
Cameron: Yeah, maybe. That's similar, yeah.
Rhea: Walk and talks -
Cameron: I have no idea when that started.
Rhea: I'm gonna stand by my friend's statement, that it's like a ensemble of a bunch of people talking to each other, even though they're just in one room (?). It's faster than a traditional multi - cam. [Kristin laughs.]
Jenny: [Sarcastically] Oh yeah, faster than a traditional multi - cam, totally. [Kristin and Rhea laugh.]
Jenny: Hard agree. [Everyone laughs.]
Kristin: You guys know more about making TV than we do.
Rhea: I couldn't stop looking at the lighting.
Kristin: - well -
Rhea: There was something very early on, I was like, "her whole face is in shadow - like all she has to do is lean forward [laughs] -
Jenny: Yo. There's a lot -
Rhea: [Laughing] I couldn't stop looking at that lighting!
Jenny: - there's a lot of that.
Rhea: Yeah.
Jenny: Like, it's definitely like in every episode.
Rhea: Yeah.
Jenny: And inconsistent - like nobody is getting - I don't know, maybe you would know. I mean, things are just not consistently lit.
Rhea: Yeah.
Jenny: People are not consistently lit. People are in shadow. Also, this is deliberate. That doesn't feel as deliberate, but like -
Rhea: Yeah.
Jenny: A lot of the time when you see Angel, it's through light that's coming through Venetian [Kristin laughs.] or -
Kristin: - Venetian blinds.
Jenny: No, mini blinds.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Horizontal, like, tiny blinds. There's a lot of that!
Kristin: Someone wrote into us actually - we never said this on the show - but somebody wrote into us 'cause we had a whole thing where we talked about that Angel lighting that was just like -
Jenny: [Laughing] Right.
Kristin: - slatted lines of light and somebody wrote in and said, "I think maybe that lighting decision was made because it shows the lightness and the dark that is Angel.
Jenny: Wow.
Cameron: Oh my gosh.
Kristin: So.
Rhea: Yeah.
Jenny: Symbolic.
Cameron: That's really serious.
Kristin: There ya go. [Laughs.]
Cameron: Plus it's flattering on everybody. You know what I mean? [Kristin laughs.]
Rhea: It's a good look - slatted lighting.
Cameron: It's a good look - it's flattering on everybody.
Rhea: Looks good on everybody.
Cameron: Well, they also did so many night shoots on this show. I don't know - they're not in a sound stage -
Rhea: - yeah, but that's a set.
Cameron: - can I ask you a question? Are they in a soundstage that looks like a cemetery and it's also -
Rhea: It's very possible.
Cameron: Is that what you think?
Rhea: Yeah.
Jenny: I think after season one -
Cameron: - I agree with you too.
Rhea: Yeah.
Jenny: - they built a sound stage cemetery.
Cameron: So everything - nothing is practically shot. Nothing is like out -
Rhea: I mean the football thing was.
Jenny and Cameron: Yeah.
Jenny: And externals of the high school - that's Torrance High School.
Rhea: Yeah.
Cameron: Mmm.
Rhea: So they would have to do those night shoots, but I feel like - yeah.
Cameron: They must have had a crazy schedule. Anyway, we can keep going, but it's crazy to watch this show. [Kristin and Jenny laugh.] This is like a really intense operation -
Rhea: We can't stop thinking about, "Oh my god - how did they block shoot this?"
Cameron: How did they make it?! [Rhea laughs.]
Kristin: Well, at one point, I think you Rhea were like, "Well it must have cost so much to shoot this scene.
Rhea: Yeah.
Kristin: And I was like, "sure, yeah."
Rhea: Do you know how much those extras cost? I mean, and to make them play football? [Jenny hums in agreement.] Like that's a lot of insurance to have those guys playing football.
Kristin: Yeah. It was cool to like have your minds though in that sense 'cause I just watched it and was like, "right, and now they play football." [Cameron and Rhea laugh.] Like it doesn't occur to me that that would cost a lot - of money.
Cameron: Of course!
Kristin: - of money. So Cameron, this episode scared you. I'm sorry that you got scared.
Cameron: Well, I just found it was real spooky and creepy.
Rhea: She gets scared by like piano music. [Kristin bursts into laughter. Jenny laughs.]
Cameron: That's true. I got less scared later but my number one biggest fear is - in television and film - is when something comes up behind and that happened two very solid times in this show.
Kristin: Yeah.
Cameron: Where it's like super slow. Like a slow, intense -
Kristin: - and it does like the camera coming up behind and you know something -
Cameron: - dislike. Do not like it. [Everyone laughs.] Super spooked.
Kristin: Well, we learn, I mean the opening scene of this we learn that Buffy knows how to yo - yo, which -
Rhea: - yeah -
Kristin: - I felt was an important point to bring up.
Rhea: It also was like, oh, that's what we did when we didn't have phones.
Kristin: Ri - [giggles.]
Jenny: Yeahhh.
Rhea: We yo - yo - ed. [Everyone laughing.] On gravestones.
Jenny: I yo - yo - ed. Well maybe not on a gravestone.
Kristin: Did you yo - yo?
Jenny: Yeah for sure.
Kristin: Could you, like, actually yo - yo?
Jenny: I could do, like, a few tricks.
Kristin: Wow.
Rhea: Did you do cat's cradle or what? [Kristin laughs.]
Jenny: Yeah! Cat's cradle, 'round the world, I walked the dog. [everyone makes impressed noises]
Rhea: Really? I always thought I could walk the dog but I was just throwing it on the ground [kristin laughs.]
Jenny: I was excited if I got it to come back up. That was my yo - yo - ing abilities in high school. I did have a yo - I mean, people fucking had yo - yos. [everyone affirms] Just keep it in your backpack with your hacky sack!
Rhea: That was, I mean, you'd buy it and be like 'is this going to be the thing that people remember me for?' [laughter] Nah, that's not it. Just like headphones,
Cameron: Harmonica.
Rhea: [continuing] that used to be a thing that was like characteristic, but now, like everybody wears them. [Jenny and Kristin agree]
Cameron: I also will say that in that opening shot I was immediately struck by, um, Sarah - Michelle Gellar's bod, because she has like a really short skirt on, and she looks like a human woman, and I just wanna point out that sometimes when you watch television now, uh, some bods have gotten so toned up that some teens look like they're thirty - five and have like really specific personal training regimens, [Kristin laughs] and it's like really interesting to see her in this show, 'cause she obviously is like beautiful and a TV star, but she also looks kind of… [says hesitantly] normal.
Kristin: Yeah, and I think a lot of the characters in the show, I mean, in the 90's, you could be more of a person on television.
Cameron: Mm - hm. For sure. And I mean, it's cool to see it. Like Willow is like standing sideways at one point, and you realize that she's like pretty flat - chested, 'cause she's like a really young woman, who - and like, they didn't make her wear, a really bonkers bra -
Rhea: A boob set. Or something. [Cameron laughs] [Rhea imitating a director] 'Here, put on these boobs.'
Kristin: [incredulous] you guys, is that a thing that happens, here in hollywood?
Cameron: Well, I feel like I don't know, but I feel like, right? When you're watching TV right now, do people look like that to you guys?
Rhea: I don't think so.
Jenny: What? Sorry, Murph moved.
Kristin: No, on TV? Absolutely not.
Cameron: I feel like it's a deliberate choice. It's like, you could find it on cool cable shows, or streaming shows, there's different types of bodies, and that's very, like, leaned into, [Jenny agreeing] but on like a network show… anyway.
Kristin: Also, I had a note about her skirt, because she's doing serious fighting.
Rhea: Yeah, and she has platform sandals on! Like two - inch platform sandals on.
Jenny: Those sandals are highly impractical for slaying.
Cameron: But she never really cares about that. Guys?
Jenny: She doesn't even have to think about it! [everyone agreeing] She does, I feel like she does check her skirt after she falls into the open grave, to like make sure that she has landed… safely?
Kristin: Just to check it off our list, 'cause last week we were like 'hey there's new stuff in the credits', this is the moment where she -
Jenny: Where she pops her head back up.
Kristin: - where she pops her head out of the grave comes from episode 2, we just saw it for the first time.
Cameron: Oh, it's pretty great.
Kristin: And then we go to the credits.
Jenny: You don't want to talk about how Buffy and Angel got in a big fight about Xander.
Kristin: Oh yeah right.
Jenny: I know you're over this but at least for later resolution.
Kristin: We were like half way done writing the song and Jenny keeps trying to put lyrics in about Angel and Buffy and their tension and I'm like ehh it doesn't matter, it's not a thing.
Cameron: I'm invested in their tension as well.
Jenny: Thank you.
Cameron: But also I will say, this dang show and every other dang show that had so many high school characters, I know Angel's not high school age, had so many characters that are mad at each other for talking to other people. [Jenny laughs] Is that something that actually happens to anybody?
Jenny: Well what happened in the last episode actually-
Cameron: They danced up on each other?
Jenny: so Buffy died.
Cameron: Uhuh yes.
Kristin: That was two episodes ago.
Jenny: That was two episodes ago, and then she got CPRed and came back to life and defeated the Master who was the head vampire in last season. She came back after summer vacation with a lot of unresolved trauma and she was acting out a lot and one of the ways she acted out was to do a very sexy dance with Xander at the Bronze while Cibo Matto played "Sugar Water" and Angel looked on in a huff.
Kristin: Yeah, so we're just coming off of the huff.
Cameron: Ok, so like nothing happened except for sexy dancing?
Kristin: Nothing happened, just a sexy dance.
Jenny: Yeah but like deliberately cruel sexy dancing.
Kristin: I think that Angel needs to take a deep breath.
Jenny: Well he is-
Jenny and Cameron: he's 241.
Kristin: Exactly.
Cameron: I think maybe, I don't know, pull her aside and have a real conversation. [group laughter and agreement]
Rhea: If fun sexy dancing pisses you off what have you been doing for 241 years? What other experiences have you had that that can still bother you?
Jenny: The bulk of his experiences have been… pillaging, like a lot of slaughter, and then after he was re - ensouled he's been working through his own trauma, recovering from the fact that he now cares about every life that he took.
Rhea: Ugh, he has to have feelings about it.
Jenny: I know, I know.
Kristin: This is the first time we actually learned how old Angel was, right?
Jenny: I think so, I think this is the day.
Kristin: 241.
Rhea: Question. How do you talk to an Angel? [group laughter]
Kristin: Wow, that's a 90's crossover.
Rhea: Can you hold her close?
Kristin: That's a crossover episode.
Jenny: Oh! The 90210 high school also-
Kristin: Is that high school
Jenny: Torrance High School.
Rhea: No way! [laughter]
Kristin: Yes!
Rhea: I thought it felt… similar. It felt familiar
Kristin: Same exact high school.
Kristin: I have written down a thing that I don't remember what I wrote it for but I just wrote "Jenny Calendar…" Oh! [remembering why she wrote it] "flirt practice" We see Giles -
Jenny: Yeah yeah, Giles is practicing on a chair.
Kristin: Practicing flirting.
Rhea: It's all very Clint Eastwood [laughter].
Cameron: Mhm, I was going to make the same joke, but I waited for you to make it.
Kristin: That was so nice.
Jenny: You can make it later, and people will see it in their feed first.
Cameron: That's right.
Kristin: But I just wonder, because I know that Giles is not just the teacher, he's the watcher, and they have a deeper relationship with him, but I was very confused about the way that Buffy and Xander and all of them interacted with Giles having a crush on Jenny Calendar. I just feel like I would never have a conversation like that with my teacher or my watcher. You know what I mean?
Jenny: Or my watcher [laughter].
Rhea: I've literally never had that conversation with somebody that's older than me.
Kristin: Yeah.
Cameron: So, is part of their dynamic supposed to be that he's in charge of all the practical stuff but he doesn't have any of the intangibles.
Kristin: Yes.
Cameron: Right, that's what the Scooby gang does, is that they are like [Cam being a Scooby] "this is the other stuff that you should care about, like food and washing your body"
Jenny: Food, computer hacking.
Rhea: [laughing] Washing your body?
Jenny: Nobody's washed their bodies yet that we've seen.
Rhea: Is that the lesson we've learned from Scooby Doo? "Hey gang, don't forget to take a shower?" [laughter]
Cameron: So that's why they're comfortable doing it, that's their dynamic.
Jenny: They're spending all their time together.
Kristin: I know, I still felt embarrassed about the whole thing.
Cameron: Well was it because the advice was bad?
Kristin: No, I think it was because Giles was so embarrassed, who I love by the way. I love Giles' crush on Jenny Calendar.
Jenny: Yeah yeah yeah, peak Giles.
Kristin: Ahh, so fumble - y.
Jenny: Foppish.
Rhea: High - key Giles.
Kristin: Dropping all the papers off the table.
Rhea: [impersonating Giles] Wh - wh - wha - what was that? [laughter] Did you say second, second date? [more laughter]
Cameron: What has he done since then? Anthony Michael Head?
Kristin: Anthony Stewart Head. Anthony Michael Hall.
Cameron: I got the Anthony and the Head.
Rhea: C Thomas Howell.
Kristin: Anthony Michael Stewart Head.
Cameron: What has he done since this?
Jenny: Great question.
Kristin: We know he did a Taster's Choice commercial before. [people agreeing]
Rhea: Yeah, I was gonna say that's what he got picked up from, right? That Taster's Choice -
Kristin: Yeah.
Rhea: Series.
Kristin: Are you looking it up… what he's done since?
Cameron: I just trust him so much, and I really [laughter] I trust him so much.
Rhea: I don't why that's so funny to me.
Jenny: He has the vibe.
Rhea: I'd give him my Taster's Choice anytime.
Jenny: That's sweet.
Kristin: He's very dad - ly, you know? [agreement] He's very calming. Well, while you look up Giles' trajectory -
Jenny: Oh my god, he's in Imagine Me and You -
Kristin: What?!
Jenny: The other movie where Piper Perabo kisses a girl.
Cameron: Oh yeah he is, he's her dad!
Rhea: Ohhh!
Cameron: I knew that I had seen him in something.
Jenny: Oh my god! Where Piper Perabo kisses Cersei Lannister!
Kristin: Whoa!
Jenny: That's what happens in that movie, and Giles is Cersei Lannister's dad?
Kristin: Uh, yeah.
Cameron: Did you forget that? Yes that's true.
Kristin: I forgot it. We have to rewatch this film.
Rhea: And she dumps Ozymandias -
Kristin: Spoiler alert for those of you who haven't seen Imagine Me and You
Rhea: For Cersei Lannister. How old is that movie? It's 20 years old now?
Jenny: 2005?
Rhea: Yeah, 20 years old.
Kristin: But everyday a new lesbian is born.
Jenny: Aww.
Kristin: They're just catching up, they have a lot to watch.
Cameron: That's true, we only get like 5 movies [laughter]. Rhea don't say which lesbian leaves a guy to be with a woman, in which movie, just know that it happens in all of them.
Rhea: I feel like it's pretty obvious that the comedy that's rated PG, Imagine Me and You, is gonna end up happy, anyway.
Kristin: So wait, where are we even [in the episode]?
Jenny: Giles is practicing on a chair.
Kristin: Giles is practicing on a chair, and then Cordelia enters.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: I mean like, whatever, they have their Giles thing, but then we go to the Science Fair.
Jenny: Right right right, and she's all tomato: fruit or vegetable?
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Great question.
Kristin: Great question. Also Cordelia and Willow are kind of wearing the same outfit, but in the Cordelia shape and the Willow shape.
Jenny: That I missed, what did it look like?
Kristin: It's just the patterns of Willow's shirt and Cordelia's dress are almost identical but it's a flowy lady dress and a nerdy collared button down.
Jenny: Oh! And they both look like 70's wallpaper?
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Right right right.
Kristin: Very 70's wallpaper.
Cameron: That's true. I was very happy to see Willow show up because I had a huge thing for her in high school and I remember going and asking for her hair cut. Then seeing it now I realize that she doesn't have a hair cut. [laughter]
Kristin: Yeah she just has hair.
Jenny: You were asking for something else but you didn't know how to ask for it so you just said hair cut. [more laughter]
Cameron: [reenacting the request] Can you give me Willow's hair cut? [as the stylist] What does it look like? [as herself again] It goes straight down.
Kristin: It does nothing.
Cameron: It goes straight down and it's hair.
Rhea: It's the length that my hair currently is.
Kristin: It is very shiny though.
Rhea: Herbal Essences probably. [people agree]
Jenny: Yeah that's some shampoo commercial hair.
Kristin: She pre-dates Herbal Essences - Herbal Essence, or Herbal Essences?
Cameron: Herbals Essence.
Jenny: [gasps] Remember how their ad campaign was just people having shower-gasms?
Kristin: Yeah, their just orgasms.
Jenny: Female pleasure.
Rhea: It's back!
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: It's back?
Rhea: No, the shampoo is back.
Kristin: Not the -
Rhea: Not the orgasms.
Kristin: Of course.
Jenny: Never!
Kristin: Dammit!
Rhea: Yeah, it's back, in grocery stores.
Kristin: We had that one brief moment.
Rhea: It was a good two years [laughter].
Kristin: So ok, they're at the Science Fair, and then creepy Eric comes with his camera.
Jenny: [sound of disgust]
Kristin: Yeah it's so creepy though.
Jenny: Yeah he's really gross.
Kristin: I know that shit gets creepier.
Jenny: The wink in particular.
Rhea: That kid was in a lot of stuff.
Kristin: Really?
Cameron: He was.
Jenny: Really, what else was he in?
Rhea: I don't know.
Jenny: Was he creepy in everything?
Cameron: I mean definitely.
Rhea: He was in Boy Meets World or something.
Cameron: That… uh… situation of him showing up and just taking pictures of women without their permission is such a funny -
Kristin: Right
Cameron: I can't tell if the show was trying to comment on it, moment, or they were like it's fine he's harmless, and I'm like no!
Kristin: Because it was the second time that we had watched the episode and I knew what was coming next. I knew that these were the guys that were totally violating lots of women -
Cameron: Yeah.
Kristin: All the time. I was like, this seems super intentional and kind of cool. I feel like they went out of their way to show that Cordelia and Willow and Buffy were like "What the fuck, dude. Nobody said you could take our fucking picture."
Cameron: That's true.
Kristin: It's a whole thing.
Rhea: He was in Free Willy and the Wonder Years. He was also in Inglorious Bastards.
Kristin: Wow. The Wonder Years, I loved that show. Um speaking of, are we allowed to say 'The Patriarchy' more than once?
Jenny: I think we might be able to say to say it four times.
Kristin: Oh! Cause there's four of us.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: I've taken two already, but that one didn't count. This is the second one.
Rhea: That was a question, yeah.
Kristin: I was asking.
Cameron: Murph is asleep nose down.
Kristin: Murrrrph.
Rhea: He is into the chair.
Cameron: He is passed out, face first on the chair. Anyway, keep going I just wanted to make sure to tell you about that.
Kristin: We'll make sure to show you pictures. It's been well documented. Every time I say anything everyone else in the room just continues to take Murph and my picture [laughter]. Um so I think new patriarchy moment here is we go to the graveyard, and I just want to know what everyone thinks about this, because it's Buffy and Willow and they're just sitting by the grave and Giles and Xander are digging the grave. Xander's like "the femmes could pick up a shovel and help us out here" or whatever. So on the one hand the scene is set up where the women are doing nothing and the men are digging. But on the other hand Buffy is like "sorry, this is the role of women, you wanted it this way, so here I fucking sit." So I'm just wondering, thoughts from the group on if this is upending or doing bad things.
Cameron: I have a very hard time being that offended by almost anything in this show. Only because I've seen so much of it and I know the intention of the whole thing, especially at the time.
Kristin: Yeah.
Cameron: Just the idea that they were putting a woman kicking people in the face on television [laughter]. I mean Xena was on at the same time I think, so there were a couple of shows were it was like women are kicking faces. [laughter] What's especially great about this show is that there's no victim because literally the vampires disappear after she stakes them in the heart. It's very satisfying and there's no sadness to be had because they're terrible demons. Yeah, I didn't have a problem with it. Usually I'm extremely hyper - vigilant and have a problem with everything.
Kristin: Well but there's that other end of it, you know? If you're saying I'm gonna sit here and do my nails cause that's what you said I was gonna do, now you shovel the grave. You know what I mean?
Cameron: And it's the way she's saying it too, and her delivery, and how much you know she really does do for the whole team.
Kristin: Exactly!
Jenny: Yeah, also if the point of feminism is to create the space in women's lives to choose what they want to do, and a big part of that recently is it's also a woman's choice if she doesn't want to work. There's probably a better way to say all that, but feminism here is doing the work to make space for Buffy to make the choice of whether or not she participates in exhuming a potential body.
Kristin: Right. And then she jumps in and is the only one who will open the casket anyway.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: So, there's that.
Jenny: Yo! So then, Cordelia's in the parking lot and listen, we have to talk about it! Ok because first of all she's like we really have to practice our cheer, otherwise no one's gonna be lead by them at the game. And listen, you weren't here for Season 1, Episode 3 when we first met the Sunnydale Cheerleaders but their only cheer is "Go Sunnydale Go, Go Sunnydale Go, Go Sunnydale Go, 678" repeat.
Kristin: They say "678."
Jenny: Yeah.
Rhea: Wow.
Jenny: And that cheer appears here. I think they say Razorbacks now instead of Sunnydale.
Kristin: They accidentally say Greenbacks, actually-
Jenny: Which is a real mystery
Kristin: Which is weird.
Jenny: Within this universe they're supposed to be saying Razorbacks, and we hear it later at the football game.
Rhea: Go Dollar-bills Go! [laughter]
Kristin: Here's the thing, I want to talk about the cheers too, but I also want to just know for a second, how many people in this room had those sneakers that Cordelia was wearing. They were the while Adidas sneakers with the three stripes on the side.
Cameron: I didn't have them but of course, you know -
Rhea: Were they Shell Toes?
Kristin: The Shell Toes.
Rhea: Oh yeah I had a pair of Shell Toes in high school.
Cameron: I feel like you still have some.
Rhea: I don't have any Shell Toes, get out of here with that.
Cameron: I think she's got some.
Rhea: I don't own a pair of Shell Toes.
Cameron: No, yeah she does.
Rhea: I can't stand them.
Kristin: Jenny had a pair of Shell Toes that she did not wear forever and I finally, finally let them go.
Jenny: RIP
Kristin: But like very recently.
Cameron: Oh man.
Kristin: [to Cam]You didn't have Shell Toes?
Rhea: I can't wear Shell Toes.
Kristin: That surprises me.
Cameron: No… no, I wore like Steve Maddens.
Jenny: Sambas if anything.
Cameron: Oh I did wear Sambas. [laughter]
Jenny: Yeah, of course you did.
Rhea: Of course you wore Sambas.
Kristin: Sambas are basically related, they're in the same family.
Cameron: That's great. That's a great… pull
Kristin: You're were like "I would never wear Shell Toes! Oh I totally had Sambas, yeah." [laughter]
Jenny: That was a different thing! They were built for speed.
Cameron: I also had Docs, you guys, Docs. When I was a freshman I had platform Steve Martin loafers -
Kristin: Steve Martin! By the way
Cameron: I also wore knee socks and a skirt everyday to school. By the time I was a senior I wore white steel toed platform lace-up Doc Martens -
Rhea: Which you still have.
Cameron: That were like illegal.
Jenny: Illegal. Illegal in Catholic school.
Kristin: They were illegal a your school?
Cameron: Not dress code. [laughter]
Kristin: Um I just want to make sure that you know that you said Steve Martin and not Steve Madden.
Cameron: I wore Steve Martin's shoes. [laughter]
Jenny: They were verbosely oversized.
Cameron: No, I did say Steve Martin, you're right. Because that's how long it's been since I've worn any of those shoes. I forgot what they're called and I thought they were a movie star.
Kristin: I want everyone to see some pictures of you in that phase of time.
Cameron: It's the best.
Kristin: You know? It's really special.
Cameron: It's the best, it's the best.
Jenny: Yeah, do you have any? I've only seen you as a business woman in your teens.
Cameron: I was a business woman. I've got so many great photos. I have to go do an expedition to my parents house and come back with some stuff. [agreement]
Rhea: I gotta get mine too and we've gotta get our high school pictures together. You say all the time that we would have dated each other, but…
Cameron: Do you mean get our pictures together like take one picture of you, one picture of me put them on top of each other, rub 'em back and forth? [laughter]
Rhea: Yeah that's what I mean.
Kristin: And go like [kiss noise].
Jenny: See what your baby would look like.
Rhea: Of course that's what I mean.
Cameron: Wham, wham wham! [laughter]
Rhea: Wham, wham, wham, that's what I mean, yeah. [more laughter]
Kristin: Ok, so Cordelia in her Shell Tops hides in the dumpster because she's afraid. It turns out that it's just Angel who thinks that it's Buffy that he saw, which is weird.
Cameron: Why is he even there?
Jenny: He seems like he is lying.
Cameron: Also, I don't remember, how does Buffy meet Angel?
Kristin: He just appears. He just follows her one day down an alley.
Jenny: And gives her a cross necklace.
Kristin: And he's like "Uhh the Hellmouth is a thing." What is it?
Jenny: The Harvest.
Kristin: Oh, the Harvest.
Cameron: What is he supposed to do?
Kristin: He -
Cameron: He just pops up?
Kristin: He's fighting.
Jenny: He's fighting for good.
Cameron: Ok.
Rhea: He's on Bones.
Jenny: He's trying to atone for a couple hundred years of killing people.
Cameron: Right, but the reason he'd be at the high school is there's no reason?
Jenny: Well it's were the Hellmouth is.
Cameron: Sure, fair point. Ok got it.
Kristin: So he's sticking around to help sleuth. He usually guides Buffy, from what we've seen so far. He'll be like "hey this thing is happening, just so you know they're gathering, so heads up on that."
Jenny: Yeah yeah yeah, a lot of that.
Cameron: Also, I said it as we were watching, but his haircut.
Jenny: Yes.
Cameron: Is his last name Boreatus? Is that how you say it?
Jenny: Boreanaz.
Cameron: Boreanaz. David Boreanaz. His haircut is… why is that his haircut?
Rhea: Also only he could have that haircut.
Cameron: How did it happen?
Rhea: It's very specific to his specific head.
Cameron: It's going down and up and it meets in the middle as sort of a crest. [laughter]
Rhea: I think it's all he can do. [more laughter]
Cameron: I do not believe it.
Rhea: I think he's like an owl-man.
Cameron: It doesn't look that wild on Bones, it looks kinda normal.
Rhea: What are you talking about that's exactly what it looks like.
Cameron: His hair still looks like that?
Rhea: Yeah.
Cameron: Really? It goes down and up?
Jenny: I feel like it's shorter and more adult than it was on Buffy.
Kristin: Jenny has a theory on why his hair looks like this.
Jenny: I mean in the universe of the show, my theory is he's a vampire he can't see his reflection so he's trying something but he has no way of knowing what the result is.
Cameron: Do you know what's really funny about that is I think I always thought that a vampire can't see their reflection but they can just see hair
Jenny: [laughing] Whaaat!
Kristin: Like their skin they can't see but their hair is an extension of themselves.
Rhea: Just their floating hair.
Jenny: Whyyy? What is the logic?
Kristin: Did you just realize that was your thought?
Cameron: Yeah and I think it's really funny.
Jenny: Oh. My God.
Cameron: Imagine a little funny haircut. And then I guess the question is can you see right through?
Kristin: Also wouldn't you be able to see your clothing… in your reflection?
Rhea: Like the Hollow Man.
Cameron: That's what I think. You can see the clothes and the hair.
Jenny: How does it become invisible -
Kristin: When it touches you? That doesn't make any sense.
Jenny: Ok, I see where you're at… but we can't know, I think is the thing.
Kristin: Yeah there's no answer. But just posting a question to the masses, yeah? The two of you, the way your faces look when Murph does something you like is the sweetest thing.
Cameron: I just don't know where he's going.
Kristin: The proudest parents in all the land.
Jenny: He's got a lot of exploring to do. And now he's gonna lay down again.
Rhea: He had to go check it out.
Kristin: Murph just wanted to make sure this was the best seat in the house.
Rhea: Is this the warmest place? Yes it is.
Kristin: It is.
Rhea: I'm back, he's back.
Kristin: Ok, listen, should I even keep going through my points?
Cameron: Yes!
Kristin: Should I?
Cameron: You're the guiding light we need.
Kristin: Oh boy.
Jenny: Well like, can we just talk about his dumb face when he pops up, when she's coming out of the dumpster?
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: What is the direction? He's got this big goofy smile on his face on the side shot -
Kristin: I don't know.
Jenny: And then when the camera's directly facing him, he's still kind of smiling in this friendly way that doesn't make any sense and he's answering Cordelia's questions about why he was following her in a very obtuse way.
Kristin: Maybe it's because Cordelia is so pretty.
Cameron: That's a great point.
Jenny: That is a solid point.
Cameron: Also the men in this show are giant -
Kristin: So big.
Cameron: Compared to the women.
Jenny: Sarah Michelle Gellar is what, like 5 feet tall?
Cameron: I'd guess that she's super small, I mean, I don't know.
Jenny: Last time I measured her, she was 5 feet.
Cameron: Also all of the dudes that are in this specific -
Jenny: Are all 6 feet.
Cameron: They're enormous. They're so big.
Kristin: I mean Xander and Angel are huge. And then of course the zombie dude is also huge.
Cameron: Even Giles is pretty big. It looks like a Disney movie. Like Moana, where Moana is so teeny then Maui, the character that is played by The Rock, is 8 times her size. And then you're like "I feel like in real life men and women are kind of similar sizes." [laughter] Not in this universe either.
Kristin: No they're huge. Jenny was talking last week too about how even though Angel is huge and Xander is huge that when Angel is with Buffy it seems to look more proportionate. And when Xander and Buffy stand next to each other -
Jenny: Like when they're doing a sexy dance together for example.
Kristin: Yeah maybe that's why it looks so awkward.
Jenny: It just looks wrong. He looks like a bean.
Kristin: Um I would like to give a special shout out to Cordelia for her scream. She has a few in the episode.
Jenny: The dumpster one is a real winner.
Kristin: Actually if I'm gonna rank her screams I think that the scream where she's on the table and she's like "I promise not to scream" and then she screams, actually wins out for me in my horror scream ranking. But she gets her first really good scream in the dumpster and it's paired with a big motion. I know you couldn't see that audience but I was moving my hands to the side of my face [laughter]. But yeah Cordelia gets a good scream and there's gonna be a lot of moments for this but we have a lot to talk about so I want to make sure that we show our love for Cordelia.
Cameron: That's a great point.
Jenny: Now is the time.
Kristin: Now is the time. [Cordelia jingle plays] Cordelia (ah - ahh) I love you, Cordelia (ah - ahh) You're perfect, Cordelia (ahh - ahhh)
Kristin: Great! Great, great, great. Alright, what do you got Jenny?
Jenny: What do I have? I'm so glad you asked. We go to the library just after Angel has pulled Cordelia and a bunch of body parts out of a dumpster, right?
Kristin: Mmhm.
Jenny: And this is, I think, where we have to - we have no choice but to award the sexual tension trophy to Angel and Xander because they're all "Angel." "Xander." "Angel."
Kristin: Right, they have a Rocky Horror Picture Show moment. [laughter]
Jenny: Exactly!
Kristin: Alright, yeah.
Jenny: So if you're comfortable with that I'd really like to give it to them.
Kristin: Okay, I had written down the obvious answer which was Giles and Jenny Calendar -
Jenny: No, no, no, no, no.
Kristin: But I defer to your - yes.
Jenny: Second place, second place. So maybe Angel can pawn the trophy we just gave him and buy a new jacket because that jacket is all wrong for his coloring.
Kristin: That jacket is horrible!
Jenny: It's…not right. It's really washing him out.
Kristin: Are they trying to signal spring? Like is that - what season are we in?
Rhea: I don't know. There's a lot of white.
Jenny: Or maybe because he's paired with Cordelia, they're trying to make him look more… mainstream
Cameron: But if he's gonna get a new jacket can he bring Xander? Because Xander needs smaller clothes.
Kristin: Xander needs -
Rhea: He needs to go down a size.
Jenny: Xander's clothes are huge but do you remember the 90's?
Cameron: I know but it's so funny to see it now.
Rhea: Xander is basically who I'm talking about when I'm like, the clothes are huge. It's like a lot and then he's putting a messenger bag on top of it.
Jenny: Oh yeah!
Kristin: That is the classic look.
Rhea: And it's just like, cinched across his chest.
Cameron: I feel like you wore your clothes proportionately to you the same size to him.
Rhea: No. Not in high school.
Kristin: Did you have a messenger bag?
Rhea: I did before that. Yeah, before that. In high school, I tried to and I was like, I don't care about school, why do I have a bag?
Kristin: Right. [laughter]
Cameron: [amused] What? Rhea, this is crazy thing to say!
Rhea: Straight up, I never did homework. I don't know how I - honestly? Don't know how I graduated high school. On like, charm.
Kristin: What were your - like, did you get good grades or did you get not good grades?
Rhea: No! I got terrible grades in high school. I did not care.
Kristin: Okay.
Rhea: I was a smart kid. I did really well, and then I just stopped caring.
Kristin: Right.
Cameron: Well, it's 'cause you didn't have anything to focus you, like -
Rhea: Parents?
Cameron: Vampires.
Kristin: Right.
Rhea: I needed one of those. Parents or vampires.
Jenny: Parents or vampires. So we go to the Epps household for like five seconds and we see Chris come out of his 'danger do not enter' door and say goodbye to his mom, who's just watching endless clips of Daryl play football, and smoking cigarettes, and not paying attention to anything. Very sad.
Kristin: Yeah, take it back.
Jenny: The word "sad" -
Kristin: You can't say it anymore. It's been robbed from us.
Jenny: Yeah. We're not allowed to use it anymore, right?
Kristin: No, it's horrible.
Jenny: Okay, it's really too bad.
Kristin: There's a lot of words that have been taken from us. [group agreeing]
Rhea: Also, the thumbs up. Can't really do that anymore.
Kristin: God.
Jenny: [sighing] Jesus.
Rhea: Anyway. [group sighing]
Kristin: The saddest part of the podcast -
Rhea: Sad.
Kristin: Was the collective sighs of all four of us. [group groaning]
Jenny: So we finally get a look at what Chris and Eric have been working on. Which is of course a bunch of pieces of lady corpses sewn together.
Kristin: Lady corpses.
Jenny: Cameron got so bummed out.
Kristin: Yeah, Cameron, you were upset about this for a long part of the episode. "Why does it have to be many women? Why do they have to be sewn together? Why couldn't anyone just date one woman, that was just one woman?"
Rhea: It's kinda funny.
Kristin: But he talks about it. He does answer the question, it just takes a long time for you to get to the answer.
Jenny: Wha- what?
Kristin: The reason why they're sewing the bodies together and not just using one dead person that they're reanimating is because they want her to be just as terrifyingly undesirable as him-
Jenny: Ohh, right. So they'll hide together, right.
Kristin: So that they can fall in love-
Rhea: Ew.
Kristin: Because they both never want to go outside.
Rhea: What is this, Passengers?
Cameron: So here's my follow up to this.
Rhea: Is that it?
Cameron: Here's my follow up to this. Okay, yeah, cheers, but like-
Rhea: No, don't "cheers" it.
Cameron: They're also making it very difficult on themselves. Like, just take one woman and then-
Jenny: Cut her up!
Kristin: Yeah!
Rhea: She's a reanimated dead thing! She's gonna be terrified.
Jenny and Kristin: He's one guy!
Cameron: That's what I'm saying!
Jenny: Unnecessary scarring. All of that face tissue that's been-
Rhea: So much time. They dug up so many-
Cameron: What happened to his face because he was in a rock climbing accident. [people agreeing] How did his face get so-
Kristin: He must've fallen on his face.
Cameron: Awl
Rhea: Can I just say, and I apologize to point out something on a show that people love, but I always find it takes me out of it when there's a death-
Cameron: Frankenstein monster? [laughter]
Rhea: No, yeah. When there's vampires, no. When there's multiple deaths at a high school and people are like, "what?" Like they didn't hear about it.
Cameron: It was a different high school.
Rhea: But Daryl's playing for that team.
Kristin: No, it was Sunnydale High School, but here's the thing about Sunny-
Rhea: Got it.
Cameron: No, the different high school where the girls went to.
Kristin: Yes, the girls-
Cameron: But you're bringing up Daryl.
Rhea: Yes, but also- yes, okay. But I remember hearing about- I mean, like, some- three girls get killed in car accident in a neighboring high school, you're gonna know about it when it happens.
Kristin: Unless you live on a Hellmouth.
Rhea: Of course.
Jenny: And people are dying all the time.
Rhea: But I was saying globally, any show that ever does this, it always takes me out of it. Come on, they don't need the microfiche to figure this out. [laughter] They knew when it happened.
Kristin: I think the first episode of the whole series, there's a dead guy in a locker that falls out onto somebody else. And then the next scene is them all in the hallway or outside and they're like, "yeah, they cancelled gym." The first episode we were like, seriously, that's it? There's a dead person. But then every episode-
Jenny: They just cancelled gym. If they closed school every time a high school student died, they'd never- they'd be in full year - round classes.
Kristin: They drop like flies over there.
Cameron: There's no larger governmental…
Kristin: No.
Rhea: Police officer of any kind?
Kristin: Police are never called.
Jenny: No, no, it's a whole thing.
Kristin: Never called.
Jenny: Very strange.
Kristin: We've actually written that into some of the songs.
Rhea: Like, this is weird, it's always been figured out, so.
Cameron: Sort of like an investigation of some kind about some sort of ring that seems like is happening?
Kristin: No and Buffy is always breaking- because police are never seen but there are sometimes caution tape or things that- and she's always just pushing it aside or going directly into a crime scene and touching everything. [laughter] It's just Sunnydale High School, you know? But I also do hear you, Rhea.
Rhea: Yeah, it's just a funny… I noticed it in this and I was like, this happens all the time. It's like this funny TV concept.
Kristin: Yeah, 'cause if a person dies in high school that's a big-
Rhea: It's a big deal.
Kristin: It's a big deal.
Jenny: You know what else is a big deal?!
Kristin: What, Jenny?
Jenny: Giles and Ms. Calendar are going to the big game.
Kristin: Oh my god.
Jenny: And it's a date and also Ms. Calendar says one of my favorite jokesin the whole series which is: "Please call me Jenny, Ms. Calendar is my father." What a great joke. [laughter]
Cameron: That's a great joke.
Jenny: I love it so much!
Cameron: It's a great joke. Also, she's pretty hot.
Jenny: The last person who sat in that chair-
Kristin: In that chair.
Jenny: And said that was Gaby Dunn.
Kristin: Literally. [laughter] She was like, "she is so pretty."
Rhea: It makes sense.
Cameron: Yeah, that does make sense. [laughter] It makes a lot of sense.
Jenny: Just look at her go.
Rhea: What does she teach?
Jenny: She's the computer lab teacher and she's also a techno - pagan!
Rhea: Oh yeah, techno - pagan.
Kristin: Yeah, she's really good at-
Jenny: Earlier in the series, she helped them get a demon off of the internet that had been scanned in.
Rhea: Mmm. [group laughter]
Kristin: She's a lady who knows what's what. She knows how to work a computer. She knows how to ask a guy out.
Jenny: She loves casting bones.
Rhea: She's got a hot belt.
Kristin: Yes, the hottest of all belts on Jenny Calendar.
Rhea: You could hang a plant from that thing.
Jenny: And she loves sports. She loves football because it's so rugged.
Kristin: She has a whole monologue, not a monologue-
Jenny: About American sports?
Kristin: Yeah, where she's like, "it doesn't have the…"
Jenny: "The grace of basketball or the poetry of baseball." Do you relate to that? The poetry of baseball?
Rhea: I do relate to that, actually. I was like, wow, that's pretty right on.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Are you team Jenny Calendar?
Rhea: Apparently, yeah, when it comes to sports. [laughter]
Kristin: But yeah, I love their whole- this is really it for them. This is a big episode for Giles and Jenny Calendar. Because they've just been stepping around the issue of liking each other.
Jenny: Right, right, right.
Kristin: And now they've gone on their first date.
Jenny: Oh my god, also, his hop. His little victory hop-
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: After he's like, "that went well. I did nothing but somehow we're still going on a date." Victory hop.
Kristin: It's so great.
Jenny: Really nice.
Kristin: Also I just loved how she poked her head back out of the classroom door. She was like, "I have to go to class" but then she came back out anyway.
Jenny: She was like [silly voice] "not really."
Cameron: Also, first date and I'm gonna say something that just… maybe the blandest food. [laughter]
Rhea: You mean don't go Mexican on the first date?
Cameron: I think don't go Mexican and I would also say-
Rhea: Just go get a hot pretzel.
Cameron: Maybe no pasta with a ton of garlic. You know what I mean? [group agreeing]
Rhea: Just get yourself a mall hot pretzel.
Cameron: Yeah, exactly. Just a slice of bread. A slice of toast. [laughter]
Rhea: I don't know!
Kristin: Auntie Annie's is that what it's called? The pretzel place? [group agrees]
Rhea: Yeah, but we had Hot Sams where I was growing up.
Jenny: Hot Sams?
Rhea: Back in the 80's and early 90's.
Cameron: I don't think so. [laughter]
Rhea: It predated Auntie Anne's. Auntie Anne's was like a new thing that people when I was in high school went and worked there and would bring us pretzels the next morning.
Kristin: Yes!
Rhea: And we would eat disgusting, soggy… just drop a soggy, wet bread bag on the table.
Kristin: Did you have Pretzel Time, is that a thing that everybody had? [everyone says yes]
Kristin: 'Cause I had friends that worked at Pretzel Time but that's like the definition of high school.
Rhea: Pretzel Time and Hot Sams are like the same company.
Kristin: Oh, really?
Rhea: I'm pretty sure.
Cameron: Pretzel Time and Hot Sams?
Rhea: Hot Sams is a goddamn thing. [laughter] And if you keep arguing with me on this, we're gonna get a divorce.
Cameron: What's weird about this is one of them is so obvious about what it is… Pretzel Time. [laughter] The other one, it's like, what is this? [more laughter]
Rhea: Yeah, but you know what I'd say when I went to Hot Sams? Do you know what this it?
Kristin: I'll have a Hot Sam?
Rhea: It's pretzel time.
Kristin: Ohhh, I thought maybe they called the pretzels Hot Sams.
Cameron: That would make more sense!
Kristin: Right, then I'd love a Hot Sam. But I had friends who worked at Pretzel Time and since that day that they began working, or telling me what they did at Pretzel Time, I don't think I have purchased a pretzel from a place like that. Because they were disgusting, horrible high school students who would like, kill a fly with the pretzel and then wrap it up. [group sounds of disgust]
Jenny: Oh, what the fuck?!
Kristin: I know!
Rhea: You guys, it's totally a thing. I put in Hot Sams and pretzels auto - populated so…
Kristin: Wow.
Cameron: Well, I think it's fake.
Rhea: It's a real thing and I used to eat it all the time.
Jenny: Even the images that pop up kind of look fake.
Cameron: I think a techno - pagan implanted that on the internet. [laughter]
Jenny: Yes! Yo, so when we do get a look at Daryl, I just want to make a note-
Kristin: This was the most traumatic moment for Cameron. Daryl's first look.
Jenny: It was rough for Cameron.
Cameron: He was spooky at first, yeah. I didn't like him very much.
Jenny: Were you at all disturbed by his posture? Which was sort of like if… whatever you would call the central oval if you were drawing a really simple human shape, his torso, I guess, is sort of a couple inches ahead of the rest of his body. His legs are back and his arms-
Rhea: Coming in early, you mean?
Jenny: Yeah, coming in- I don't know if you guys watched-
Rhea: Getting there ahead of time.
Jenny: New Years Rockin Eve with Ryan Seacrest, but Fergie is always the Hollywood host and she kind of stands the same way. [laughter]
Kristin: She does, she really does. Oh God, I love her so much.
Rhea: I walk like that, which-
Cameron: Do you think you walk like Daryl? Sweetheart.
Rhea: Not like Daryl, [laughter] but I walk wrong.
Kristin: Torso first.
Rhea: Yeah. 'Cause if ever I'm walking a lot and then I look and I'm like, oh god, I look like I'm about to fall over.
Cameron: He has- that actor, god bless him, 'cause I say this and it's gonna be kinda mean, but that person has real wacky fingers. Did you notice this?
Kristin: [gasps] I did, I did. I didn't notice it the first time and this time I did.
Jenny: Yeah.
Cameron: I don't want to go too hard on Daryl, 'cause there's a real person behind that, but that person has wacky fingers.
Jenny: But how much of that is…
Cameron: I don't think that's prosthetics. I think that's that person's fingers.
Kristin: Yeah, they were like, we don't have to do anything there.
Cameron: They are very, very big. Very big.
Kristin: And short and square.
Cameron: Very big. Very big hands. You know, there's a sport in my hometown of Chicago that's called 16 Inch Softball where you have a really soft ball and no mitts and you catch it with your hands. This guy's got some 16 inch softball hands, is what I would say. [laughter] There's a certain type of guy who can catch those balls real easy.
Kristin: Also, do you know what was- sorry, I would love to keep talking about-
Cameron: No, go ahead.
Kristin: Daryl's hands forever, but the thing that occurred to me also watching this was- so the mother is upstairs and she's devastated. It's very depressing, it's very sad. She's just smoking cigarettes and watching- [Jenny sighs] you know, reliving… but why haven't they told her that Daryl's alive in the basement? I don't understand.
Jenny: Great question!
Kristin: She's a great candidate for fully accepting this.
Cameron: Yeah, I agree, she is. She's already lost it.
Rhea: Yeah, why don't they just set the two of them up on some couches and let them hang out?
Kristin: Right? Yes.
Jenny: Watch football.
Kristin: They'd have a great life, watching Daryl's best moments.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: It's what Daryl wants. It's what she wants.
Jenny: You're right.
Rhea: I'm sorry he wants to date, but…
Cameron: Also, I really don't like basements. [laughter] So I really don't like that she doesn't know he's down there.
Kristin: Yeahhh…
Cameron: I really don't like that.
Kristin: Where do you think- do you have a root for this? Like, your basement fear? Did you have a scary basement?
Cameron: Don't you know that the root of all basement fears are that that's where murdering happens? [laugher] Are you kidding?
Jenny: The fact that you would even have to ask.
Kristin: No, I'm not suggesting that basements aren't terrifying. But you get especially scared, and like, have you just always gotten especially scared?
Cameron: Well, yeah. I had a basement in my house and I've just never been able to see in my entire life very well, and so I think it was really spooky.
Kristin: Right.
Cameron: But also, I don't know. [laughter] Every show and TV and movie has very bad basements in it.
Kristin: That's true.
Jenny: Nothing good ever happens in the basement.
Cameron: Very bad basements.
Kristin: That's a prime horror spot, is a basement.
Cameron: Dislike it a lot and can't even process it. And thank god in California almost nobody has basements.
Rhea: Yeah.
Kristin: When you travel, 'cause you travel a lot, and you're in a hotel room, do you have to check under the bed and in the shower and stuff like that?
Jenny: Why wouldn't you check under the bed and in the shower?! You have to check for bad guys!
Kristin: I know you do it, we're married. I'm asking our guests.
Jenny: Sorry. [yelling] It's just common fucking sense! [laugher]
Cameron: Definitely, I also check the closet.
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: What about you, Rhea, do you check anything?
Rhea: No, I don't check anything.
Kristin: Yeah, me either.
Rhea: There's nobody in there.
Cameron: But now, speaking of which, I haven't checked anywhere in your house. [laughter]
Kristin: Well, we're all here.
Cameron: What an elaborate ruse, [yelling] for you to kill me! [laughter]
Kristin: That would be a great plot twist. I'm like, "so do you normally check the closets?"
Cameron: I know! [yelling] I don't like it! I don't like it! I don't like it at all!
Rhea: Do you know how scared she gets?
Cameron: Seriously, I'm so scared. When I went to see Blair Witch with my high school boyfriend, we were driving home and he was trying to kiss me and I was like- I just remember this moment where he was trying to kiss me and then he looked out the window, and I was like, "Who's out there? The witch?!" [laughter] "The witch out there? I know you're in on it!" And then I just got out of the car and went in my house.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: Also, "the witch," the one.
Jenny: Were you laboring under the idea that-
Rhea: It was real?
Jenny: It was real? When you saw it, did you think maybe it was real?
Cameron: Well, we all did, yeah, 'cause the internet wasn't around.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: Oh, Blair Witch, right. I forgot where we started so I was like, what was real? The witch? What did we all think was real? [laughter]
Cameron: But I also kind of thought everything was real.
Jenny: Mhm.
Cameron: I kind of still do
Kristin: Also, I just want to say that I very much understand the fear. I'm really sorry that I looked directly at you and pretended like that there was something in the closet because that would freak me out. [Cameron laughs]
Cameron: [sighs] Ahh, breathing.
Kristin: Last night- my sister and I scare very easily and are very weird people. And last night, something happened with the TV. They were over at our house and the Apple TV rebooted and because our actual television is from like 1970 or whatever, I don't know what happened. But a loud static just started happening. And my sister jumped from the couch and buried her entire head in my torso and I was, like, with her. I covered her ears and was like, "it's okay, it was nice to have you as a sister." [laugher] And Jenny and her boyfriend Brian were like, "what is wrong with you?" We were 100% convinced that we were dying. And we were going to be killed.
Cameron: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Rhea: Tensions are high these days.
Kristin: Yep. It's true. [laughter]
Rhea: Tensions are a little high. Just a little stressed out. Hey, remember when kids used to hide under their desks?
Kristin: Oh, god.
Jenny: For real.
Rhea: I feel like I'm just doing that all the time.
Kristin: That's our new life. [loudly] Well, this is… sorry. I got excited. Not about it, but just that we have people here who also hate the world. [laughter] So our episodes air on Wednesdays and we're all feeling a lot of pressure building because we're getting closer and closer to this thing actually happening. And Jenny and I- we don't talk about politics or the world a lot directly on the podcast 'cause we like to give people a place to escape-
Rhea: Yeah.
Kristin: These things. But that said, we have talked a little about how things like science fiction and a show like Buffy is really important and takes on new meaning in times like this. So I just- I don't know. I wonder, especially Cameron, 'cause you have a relationship with the show and with the genre, if there's anything- and Rhea, I don't mean to take you out of the question. But if there are any touchstones for you guys that are either helping you because they're like "fuck yeah, we can fight and we can win" or if they're just taking you away and letting you… you know, breathe for a moment.
Cameron: That's so great. You know… well, a couple of years ago, I stopped being able to watch action movies as much because-
Rhea: We both did.
Cameron: Yeah, and we've talked about why.
Rhea: Because we used to have a podcast about it.
Cameron: We used to have a podcast about action movies because we both love action and sci - fi movies. But then… this is a very serious thing I'm gonna say. As gun violence started to become in the news constantly here in the U.S., I felt like I could no longer contribute money to something that felt like I was watching things that really happen and real people get harmed and so-
Rhea: And it was also difficult seeing these things in the news and being aware of what's going on, and then watching this movie, and it's happening in this movie for, like, entertainment.
Cameron: It doesn't transport anymore.
Rhea: And it wasn't feeling like it was- you know, it was feeling like, oh, this is just silly entertainment. I was like, I'm watching this happen to actual people everyday.
Cameron: Yeah and so I have had this sort of hole in the things that I appreciate, because I haven't found the right things often of late. And one thing that I really loved was The Force Awakens because it's such a hopeful story and it has a lot of great female characters. We also saw Rogue One and I liked Rogue One, uh, less. But I think both of those movies and the original 4 - 6 of Star Wars have been giving me a little more… hope is the word, lately. Because… both on camera and off camera. You know, we just watched the HBO documentary on Carrie Fisher's life last night, with her mom and-
Rhea: Debbie Reynolds.
Cameron: Debbie Reynolds and it's called Bright Lights. That's really inspiring because it's amazing to see what somebody can do with the focus that she got, being in those movies. And then also, what I think Star Wars is trying to do is celebrate peace and finding peace inside of yourself and finding peace inside of others. There is still violence, obviously, in these movies. And what I also love is that there are female characters. Some.
Kristin: Yeah.
Cameron: There's still like, only seven in the universe of… the universe. [laughter]
Kristin: But there's some.
Cameron: But there's some.
Kristin: Yeah.
Cameron: So that's something that I've really found is helpful lately.
Kristin: Yeah.
Rhea: I also would recommend- a lot of people watched it right after everything, but the movie Arrival was a really great science fiction story for getting along with people and what talking can do.
Kristin: Mmmm.
Rhea: You know, understanding
Cameron: It's like the same thing. It's really about peace.
Rhea: It's really about the force and understanding each other. And then also the movie Hidden Figures-
Jenny: Oh, yeah!
Rhea: Which is not sci - fi but it's about science.
Jenny: It's just sci. [laugher]
Rhea: Yeah, exactly!
Cameron: Straight up sci.
Rhea: Sci - non - fi. And just seeing that. And something that- there's a lot of things that struck me about that movie. Something else that I've been thinking, too, 'cause I'm just thinking about it and who it's about and all this. And obviously these women's stories weren't told for multiple reasons but the fact that it's like- well, I didn't know anybody that was- I mean, I knew the astronauts 'cause everybody cares about the astronauts. But I would never think, oh, there were these- tons of black women doing this. It's so much easier- your brain is trained to just think, oh, it's a bunch of white dudes.
Kristin: Totally.
Jenny: Mhm.
Rhea: And so those stories are making me really happy because they are just telling a story. And I think that's what we need to do, is just tell each other stories and remind each other that hey, we're all just people and the things we're trying to talk about are just our experiences in our lives.
Cameron: And that we were there then. I mean, I'm not a black woman but I'm a queer woman and I feel like our history is erased. And it's nice to look back and see moments where there were people that we don't tell their stories.
Kristin: Yeah.
Cameron: 'Cause it makes me think, oh, maybe I was there. Maybe there were people like me there.
Kristin: Right. And the more that we hear and uncover it, it's like, the more we know we were there. [people agreeing] And then we get to know we are here. [more agreeing] And then we can still do that shit.
Cameron: This show does that too. I mean, there's a lot of amazing female characters in this show. Not as much racial-
Rhea: You mean Buffy the Vampire Slayer?
Cameron: Yeah. Not enough racial diversity-
Kristin: No, a lot of white people in Sunnydale.
Cameron: But they did cover a lot of other things.
Rhea: Interesting though, obviously to 2017 standards, it doesn't hold up. But I am just saying, even though this show is all white people, there are people of color in the background, which is something. It's saying something that there are people… 'cause I've watched shows even that are coming out now that it's all white people in the background. And it's very glaring and you're like, "ho - how did this happen? What is this?"
Kristin: Right. And we've seen a couple- was it last week that the head vampire… was it last week?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: The head vampire was a black man. But not a lot.
Rhea: Yeah, it's not a lot.
Kristin: There's a little bit. Well, thanks for sharing that. I know that wasn't super on - episode, but on - topic with Buffy. I mean, I am finding that this rewatch for us is really helping me too. It's just nice to see. You said something when she kicked- oh, I think I wrote it down, hold on. I wrote down a couple of Cameron quotes [Cameron laughs]. Well, there's "she has a whole fresh body" but that's- [laughter] we'll get to that.
Cameron: [laughing] Well, she does! Just use Cordelia.
Kristin: You said something about- where is it?
Rhea: It's so weird to cut the head off and put it on the old thing.
Jenny: Well, there was a really nice moment in a little while when Buffy catches a knife that Eric throws-
Kristin: That's the moment!
Jenny: And Cameron said, "She's cool all the time!"
Kristin: Yep, there it is. "She's cool all the time."
Jenny: Which is like, yeah, she is.
Kristin: She is. She's a fighter.
Cameron: She is cool all the time.
Kristin: She's always kicking ass. And she's fallible, which makes her even cooler, you know?
Jenny: Mmm.
Rhea: Yeah.
Kristin: That she makes mistakes and she fucks up but then she's still like, "thunk, got your knife, motherfucker." [laughter]
Cameron: Oh, and they're also real friends. This episode is a bad example of that. But I love in other episodes that they also have real friendships with each other and have real high school problems? Because I think that's also cool to see in this show. They could've just skipped it and had them constantly fighting a zillion things but…
Kristin: Yeah. Which really was this episode. It's kind of an anomaly to the rest of what we've seen so far. Usually there's more, I don't know…
Jenny: Dimensions.
Kristin: Yeah!
Cameron: Maybe Giles got the- we got the B story or whatever.
Jenny: Giles really got the story.
Kristin: Yeah, that's true. Ah, Giles deserves a little love in his life.
Jenny: He at least gets to sit next to a girl and talk to her for five seconds before Xander and Willow show up and start eating their popcorn.
Kristin: Yes. I just want to backtrack for one second 'cause I don't want to miss this moment. When Cordelia first gets kidnapped, when they put the bag over her head-
Jenny: Sure.
Kristin: I mean, she doesn't get kidnapped, she gets bagged.
Jenny: Mhm.
Kristin: And then Buffy saves her. And you're like, wow, Cordy, you just made it. And she's like, "I've gotta go, I'm the apex."
Rhea: Yeah.
Jenny: Right, right, of the mid - field pyramid.
Kristin: Sure.
Rhea: She just totally shakes it off and is like, gotta go. There's just a pile of-
Cameron: But then she's kidnapped, and so then I guess, what does happen to that pyramid?
Kristin: Yeah, then the pyramid- right?
Jenny: Hmmm.
Cameron: So we never find out.
Kristin: We don't know.
Rhea: It's just got a flat top to it.
Kristin: It's a flat - top. The old flat - top.
Rhea: The old flat - top pyramid.
Cameron: Table mountain. [laughter]
Kristin: Anyhow, now you can go back on where you were. You know, I'm a big Cordelia…
Jenny: Well, speaking of Cordelia, how about the anatomical illustration with the photograph of Cordelia's head affixed?
Rhea: And it fits so perfectly.
Kristin: It does.
Jenny: What are the odds?
Rhea: How did they do it?
Kristin: Also, I love that they have not only a lab, but a dark room. [laughter]
Cameron: Yes!
Kristin: Right? They had to fully develop those photos.
Cameron: It is making me vom-
Rhea: Whoa.
Cameron: To think about what must've been underneath that-
Jenny: The sheet?
Cameron: Ugh. I understand-
Kristin: Yeah.
Cameron: Guys, I understand this is not the scariest thing in the entire world. But okay, let's be- let's do real talk.
Kristin: Okay, real talk.
Rhea: They don't have, like, a locker.
Cameron: You're laying there on the table and then they're like, "uh, this might hurt a little. You're gonna feel a little pinch around your neck" or whatever and then they flip up the thing and then you just see a headless bod and you're like, "oh no I'm the head!" That's the worst. [laughter]
Kristin: Yeah.
Rhea: I feel like in real life, you'd be like [vomiting noises]. Just vomiting.
Kristin: Just vomiting. [laughter]
Cameron: Yes! Yes!
Rhea: [more noises] Passing out, foaming everywhere.
Cameron: Yeah, exactly.
Kristin: Also and I know why they did this, because they were building the ideal girlfriend for the football player. But they really went out of their way to make sure you knew that they had chosen the bustiest-
Rhea: Yeah.
Kristin: Middle portion of the three girls.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: The sheet was like totally flat except for giant boobs.
Cameron: Oh my god. Oh my god. Oh my god, I hate… [laughter] Also not to skip way ahead, but the end of the episode, Buffy's like, "so why'd you do it" or whatever and then he's like, "well, 'cause my brother always protected me and I felt like I had to bring him back." And I really feel like he really skated on by-
Kristin: Right?
Cameron: 'Cause I do not agree that this is a good way to deal with grief.
Kristin: He got to be the normal kid who just got caught up in grief.
Rhea: So question though, what was Eric getting out of all of this and why was he so into it?
Jenny: I think he just had a boner the whole time.
Rhea: Yeah, he's a real creep.
Kristin: We did hear about his porn collection briefly.
Rhea: [sounds of disgust]
Kristin: So, yeah. He was the creep.
Jenny: Which hey, not that there's anything wrong with porn.
Kristin: No, but…
Jenny: Porn shaming? Was that really necessary.
Rhea: Him being really into porn is gross.
Jenny: Is a bummer.
Kristin: Yes, exactly. Precisely.
Rhea: He's not into it for the right reasons. [laughter] He has no respect.
Cameron: I really want them both to get the help that they need.
Rhea: They need some counseling, for sure.
Kristin: Well, what happened- oh yeah, they do save Eric. What's gonna happen to Eric? And also, you guys, sorry to pull apart this episode now, but it's just falling apart. It's unspooling-
Jenny: Mmmm.
Kristin: Right in front of me. Because the brother dies in a rock climbing accident. Did he dig his brother up? Is that what we're to believe, that he dug him up out of his grave?
Jenny: Yeah, I think that's all that we have to work with.
Cameron: Yeah, and the weird thing about that is- okay, so his brother-
Rhea: He didn't need a new head?
Cameron: Right, that's a great one, that he didn't need a new head. Good point.
Rhea: Because they were talking about the formaldehyde.
Jenny: They must've done it very quickly, or…
Cameron: So he did it as soon as he fell down. So here's my other follow up question-
Rhea: [yelling] "Oh my god, you're dead! Hang on, let me put you back together."
Cameron: Did he have this research done in the past?
Kristin: Right. I mean, he is a science-
Rhea: He was really good at science.
Jenny: Which means you can bring people back from the dead.
Cameron: These are unrelated things.
Rhea: He's really good at science fair. And then he has a book.
Cameron: 'Cause the whole thing is about, like, there's time requirements-
Rhea: Why do they have that book in that town?
Cameron: They're, like, really stressed out about how they gotta get stuff done real fast. But then they- it's unclear. It's unclear.
Rhea: And then he's just kind of moping around a little bit.
Cameron: And these boys, they need to go to the doctor.
Rhea: It definitely smells in there.
Kristin: And you know what, I have a feeling based on my knowledge of Sunnydale High School, they're not gonna get the help they need.
Cameron: That sounds right.
Kristin: And thne they'll be right back.
Cameron: And I'll also say, the old science lab- that was at the school though?
Kristin: Yeah, supposedly that was at the school.
Cameron: So there's a new science lab and then the old science lab is so infrequently maintained by any staff or sort of maintenance person-
Rhea: Yet still exists.
Kristin: That you can build a Frankenstein in it.
Jenny: I think there's actually the same abandoned science building in Jennifer's Body?
Cameron: Oh, no.
Jenny: Oh, you probably haven't seen that 'cause it would scare you?
Kristin: Don't you have a relationship with Jennifer's Body?
Cameron: Well, Diablo Cody went to my high school.
Kristin: Such a weird thing to come up.
Cameron: The skirt that Jennifer is wearing on the cover of Jennifer's Body is our uniform skirt.
Jenny: Wow. Wow.
Kristin: It was a random thing to bring up.
Rhea: Yeah, can you believe it?
Jenny: Wow.
Cameron: Did you know that in advance? Maybe I've told you that.
Jenny: That was buried. I did know that somewhere, but not actively. I really was just thinking there's an abandoned-
Rhea: You do talk about it all the time. [laughter]
Cameron: I do. Why wouldn't I? It's the weirdest.
Rhea: I know. It's weird.
Kristin: Okay, so in the basement is where they keep him, but at the science lab is where they're building her.
Cameron: Who drove the car also, you know what I mean?
Jenny: Hmmm.
Cameron: Anyway, the other question I would have is… the brother who's at the end talking to Buffy, Chris-
Jenny: Mhm, mhm
Cameron: Like "it got away from me" or whatever. So he's just lost his brother again.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Yeah.
Cameron: It would feel like maybe he would be sad.
Kristin: Yeah. They gave it that one dramatic moment with the fire where he was like, trying to get there but he couldn't and he had to let him go.
Cameron: But then, you know, he's still actually dead now.
Kristin: Right.
Cameron: He hasn't been dead.
Kristin: Right and now he is really actually dead.
Cameron: Now he's dead.
Rhea: "Daryyyllll!" I do love that his character's name is Daryl. [laughter] It just gives it an extra touch. "Daryyllll."
Cameron: Ugh, I'm so grossed out by this.
Kristin: I want to say, I appreciate the sacrifice that you made to be on this podcast.
Jenny: Yeah, so brave.
Cameron: Yeah, I'm grossed out.
Kristin: Yeah. And not intentionally, but we seem to have picked the episode that I think might have been one of the worst for you. [laughter]
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah. [group agrees]
Cameron: There's like basements and then the head and everything.
Jenny: How about Daryl running back into the fire and climbing on top of the headless, sewn together corpse bits and whispering, "We'll be together forever. You're mine"? [grossed - out sounds]
Kristin: Yeah, well… I mean, to give Daryl a little credit, he is a reanimated…
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah, he's not operating probably with full faculties.
Kristin: No. Let him go. Let him have his-
Cameron: Do you think he's scared of himself?
Kristin: Yeah.
Cameron: I feel like I would be so creeped out. [laughter]
Kristin: Yeah. He doesn't want to go outside, he doesn't wanna- yeah. I know we have to talk about Angel and Buffy. It's important.
Jenny: "I saw the fire and figured you'd be here."
Kristin: Right? What is he doing? [laughter]
Cameron: That's what I'm trying to figure out. Where does he come from?
Jenny: I just feel like he's not him in this episode. You know what I mean?
Kristin: Yeah, he's a little off.
Jenny: Like, he's written…
Cameron: It's confusing whether or not he can fly. Do you know what I mean? I know he can't fly but his name is Angel and he always pops up. [laughter] So I just feel like that might be a secret part.
Kristin: Maybe.
Jenny: Right, right.
Rhea: He's always just running into the- shaking off a little bit.
Kristin: Also, he's supposed- his history is that he's an incredible warrior vampire. Like, he's one of the strongest vampires of all time. And yet the whole episode opens where this dinky vampire comes out of the ground-
Jenny: Oh my god, he runs right into the fucking shovel!
Kristin: He gets knocked out with the fucking shovel like [snaps] that. Like, what?
Jenny: Maybe he got thrown off because he had to wear a beige windbreaker. Sorry.
Kristin: Yeah, that's true.
Rhea: Beige windbreaker is a problem. Always. [laughter]
Kristin: Rhea, do you have anything you want to share after your-
Jenny: This experience?
Kristin: I mean, this is a big deal. This is a big moment for you.
Rhea: No, I enjoyed the show. I had a great time watching it. It was fun time - traveling back to that time in my life. Trying to think of all the times when I would see bumpers for Buffy during other things, of like, "what's next on Buffy."
Kristin: Right.
Rhea: So that was really fun.
Kristin: I feel we're tied together forever now.
Rhea: Yeah, for sure.
Kristin: That we can say that we were with you the first time.
Rhea: I'll remember this forever. The first time I watched Buffy and the first time my dog wore a hat that was a promotional item with a candle. A hat that was designed to fit on a candle fit on my dog. [laughter] So pretty great day. All in all.
Kristin: Win - win.
Rhea: I feel fantastic.
Kristin: Thank you both for being on our podcast.
Jenny: Yeah, thank you so much for being here.
Kristin: It's been really great to have you.
Cameron: Oh yeah, so great! You know we have a podcast that's called Put Your Hands Together.
Kristin: Yeah!
Cameron: If anybody liked listening to us here, you can hear us do stand - up there.
Rhea: Check that out. I have a feeling we'll probably talk about Buffy next week. I mean, it's in our brains. We'll probably talk about it a little bit.
Cameron: Yeah, as long as…
Kristin: Well, you better now. We're all gonna come waiting for Buffy.
Rhea: Yeah, awesome. Come on over.
Cameron: Cheers!
Kristin: Also, I feel like you probably already know this listeners but Rhea and Camera have a show…[joking] Rhean and Camera. [laughter]
Jenny: A fucking fantastic show!
Kristin: A fantastic show.
Rhea: Oh, thanks.
Cameron: Thank you.
Kristin: Called Take My Wife.
Jenny: You can see it on SeeSo.
Kristin: And you should see it on SeeSo immediately.
Cameron: Yes.
Jenny: Stop cheating yourselves out of a fantastic viewing experience. Start living your best life.
Kristin: It's important. You'll thank us. Or you're saying, "We've already seen it. Of course we've seen it." [laughter] "Shut up, Kristin and Jenny."
Rhea: [silly voice] Watch it again!
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Yeah, watch it again.
Kristin: But yeah, and thank you for all the things you do! You know?
Jenny: Oh yeah!
Cameron: Aw, you guys!
Kristin: You're doing great work. It's nice to be in the room with two humans doing bad - ass work out there, you know?
Rhea: Yeah.
Kristin: So thanks.
Cameron: Ahh, I'm holding my fists in the air!
Rhea: They're up.
Kristin: So before we go we like to wolf - howl out and we were wondering if you would wolf - howl with us.
Cameron: Sure!
Kristin: Great.
Rhea: I can't wait to see what Murph's gonna do for this.
Cameron: Yeah.
Jenny: Before we howl, I'm gonna tell you that I'm Jenny Owen Youngs and when I'm not watching Buffy, I'm usually writing and recording songs. You can learn more about me at www.jennyowenyoungs.com/buffering and you can give me a shout at twitter @jennyowenyoungs.
Kristin: And I will tell you that I am Kristin Russo and you can find me over at twitter @kristinnoeline [she spells it out]. When I'm not podcasting with my wife, I work to bring advice, resources, and laughter to LGBTQ young people and their families over at www.everyoneisgay.com and www.mykidisgay.com.
Jenny: Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on twitter @bufferingcast and you can email us at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com. Also, in case you missed it, we've got a whole album out now of season one songs. You can find that currently on iTunes and where ever you get your digital music.
Kristin: If you like what we do, and you probably do, right?
Jenny: Safe bet.
Kristin: You can support our work now on Patreon. Just head over to www.patreon.com/bufferingcast you can get all sorts of rewards and prizes and extra things. It's a really great time over there so go check it out.
Jenny: Okay! Till next time.
Everyone: Awooooooo!
Jenny: Murph's ears went all the way up!
Rhea: He was into it.
Kristin: Murph, you liked the wolf howl! [Jenny performing "Some Assembly Required" off the album "Songs from Season Two" by Buffering the Vampire Slayer] What's up with this grave? You know yesterday It had a girl in it but now she's away They're using her parts And other girls' parts Could this be more disgusting? Ah, Cordelia found parts When Daryl was in high school, he played football Till he fell from some rocks and died Then his science nerd brother brought him back to life Now he's looking for a zombie bride Yeah Eric's a dick These dudes are so sick They just need a head to finish and Cordelia's their pick So during the game They whisked her away But the abandoned science building will soon be in flames When Daryl was in high school, he played football Till he fell from some rocks and died Then his science nerd brother brought him back to life So he's looking for a zombie bride One nice thing that happened today Giles and Jenny Calendar went on a date Hope they do it again Well, you know what they say Librarians and techno - pagans always find a way When Daryl was in high school, he played football Till he fell from some rocks and died Then his science nerd brother brought him back to life But he'll never have a zombie bride And Cordelia's still alive