Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 6.05: Life Serial
NOTES: [CHIME]
Jenny: [laughing nervously] H-hey everybody!
Kristin: Oh!
Jenny: Wow!
Kristin: Hi.
Jenny: Wow!
Kristin: Hello.
Jenny: Um, hello. Before we get started today, there's some things we must address! You are listening to the preamble of our episode for Life Serial, which was taped live. On the internet.
Kristin: Live on the internet-
Jenny: Live-streamingly.
Kristin: It was quite fun. I think there were about, like, 500 of you all there in the chat. And it was a special day, not only of course because we had a live event, Jenny. But I think there was something else special about that particular day.
Jenny: There-it was a miraculous… [Kristin laughs] It was the anniversary of a most miraculous event, celebrated around the globe, by many. The anniversary of my birth!
Kristin: It's true.
Jenny: November 22nd. Happy birthday to me. I would like to thank some very special Scoobies who, before we hit record-like, you won't hear it in the episode-but in the live hang, Lauren-Scooby Lauren performed [Kristin laughs] upon the euphonium a mash-up of Band Candy and Happy Birthday. Happy Band Candy, as I like to think of it.
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: That was very special and I really appreciated it. And Lorena made a cake. Now, this is interesting. Now this is a great technique, I think. Lorena made a cake [Kristin laughs] that said "Happy Birthday Jenny." But there was literally no way for me to eat the cake. [both laugh] So use this time in isolation wisely-
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: To bake for thyself-
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: And-but also honor… your loved ones. [both laugh] So special thanks to Lauren and Lorena, thank you so much. And oh, thank you so much, Kristin Russo, for-
Kristin: Okay. Okay.
Jenny: Secretly organizing-
Kristin: Alright, okay!
Jenny: And conspiring to honor-
Kristin: Before-
Jenny: The blessed day of my birth!
Kristin: [laughs] Before we started recording, I was like, feel free to give me credit for also helping. And Jenny did that just seamlessly, just so smoothly. [laughs]
Jenny: Uh-huh!
Kristin: Um, yes, it was great fun and if you listen real closely at the end of this episode, there's a little euphonium "awoo" for you. So don't miss… that!
Jenny: [giggles] Don't blink your ears.
Kristin: Yes. Also, of course, this was a live episode and it was the first time that we did a live taping digitally with guests, which was just a chaotic good time. We had-
Jenny: Oh, yes.
Kristin: LaToya Ferguson and Joanna Robinson. I don't even need to tell you any more about either of those two people, because you know both of them well. And a time we had, a time we had indeed. As a matter of fact, we had such a time that Joanna Robinson, on her second entrance into this episode, forgot to turn on record. [Jenny laughs] And that wouldn't normally be too big of a deal, and she only missed about 40 seconds. You know, it was just 40 seconds and she remembered, she hit record. The only reason that it was-that it is a big deal is because in that 40 seconds, Joanna had appeared on screen and told us all that she had done some research into sapphire dildos. And she presented us with a picture of the sapphire dildo that she had found. Now, so that is, like, very critical, critical missing information. So I'm giving it to you here, and at the end of the episode today, after the song, there's-
Jenny: [laughs] Praising!
Kristin: Just a little snippet of LaToya, Jenny and myself, cackling to the high heavens as Joanna shows us some beautiful photos of the sapphire dildo.
Jenny: Also, just wanna let you know here at the top that the sapphire dildo is actually relevant to the episode. [Kristin laughs] It wasn't just a non sequitur.
NOTES: [laughs]
Kristin: Isn't a sapphire dildo relevant to every episode, Jenny?
Jenny: Perhaps.
Kristin: Things we don't have in our store: sapphire dildos. Unfortunately.
Jenny: True…
Kristin: Things we do have in our store: well, first of all, we released a couple weeks ago a gorgeous candle that was created by Solis Illuminatum and also the label was designed by Isabella Rotman. It's gorgeous, it's the most beautiful thing we've ever had in the store. And you sold it out very quickly. There's a handful of unscented candles that remain in the store, but we're planning and we're plotting to bring something similar back your way, in a couple of months.
Jenny: Mmm, yes.
Kristin: So thanks for loving the candle as much as we did. Also-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Also, in the store but leaving Thursday, tomorrow, tomorrow, tomorrow, is a very special t-shirt designed by Werewolf Girlfriend. It is a t-shirt that is an outline of the state of Georgia. And inside of the state of Georgia, you can see a little beeper, pager. And it says "if the apocalypse comes, peach me." [Jenny laughs] It's really freaking cute, I love it so much. And we're selling it through tomorrow, after tomorrow it will be gone forever. And every dollar and cent that we make is going to be sent to Act Blue's Fair Fight fundraising efforts. Those fundraising efforts are the ones that Stacey Abrams herself directed us toward. We raised almost $3000 with a raffle for the same effort, and so everything that we earn from this t-shirt will go to that as well. So hell yes!
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: Bufferingthevampireslayer.com, click on Shop, or Store, whatever it says. And it is-this is only in the US store.
Jenny: And thanks-thanks to those of you who have already snagged a shirt and been part of this action. Speaking of action, it's time! For the results of your last episode's Sexual Tension Awards! Now! I am… well, I'm disappointed, but I'm also, like, can I blame you? I don't know. This was… a collection of very compelling candidates. And I'm sad to see, in fourth place [both laugh] butterscotch and blood pudding, with 13% of the vote, Riley and Willow and Angel.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: All together.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Mmm, in one bowl. Okay. Then-
Kristin: [laughs] Blegh.
Jenny: In-[laughs] in third place, with 14% of the vote, it's Tito and the Xand.
Kristin: Mm.
Jenny: Did Tito and the Xand get a lot of the vote last time? Or were they doing poorly always?
Kristin: No, you know, they've-they've just been really struggling against the competition.
Jenny: Okay, yeah. The competition is… stiff. [Kristin laughs] And with that, I'll say, uh, fucking rigor mortis, anyone? [both laugh] With 30%-with 36% of the vote-[cackles] in second place, it's Buffy and Spike. And then, with but one percent more of the popular vote-
Kristin: [laughs] As well it should be.
Jenny: With 37%-
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: In first place, uh, is it a seam-ripper? No! It is a pair of scissors? Nay! It's a letter opener and Buffy's skirt, united at last, coming together to fight evil. Hurray! Congrats to Buffy's skirt and the letter opener. These inanimate objects will be receiving their trophy in the mail presently.
Kristin: Congratulations, uhh, to everybody. I usually can sort of glare at Jenny or roll my eyes at Jenny, but she can't see me on Zoom right now. So I hope that the small piece of my shoulder that you can see is expressing my eye rolls at your nonsense. Your hilarious and perfect-
Jenny: I experience nothing.
Kristin: Nonsense. [laughs] Hey, guess what? We're doing a couple of very fun things. This Saturday, that is December-
Jenny: Yay!
Kristin: 12th, 2PM Eastern, all of our patrons are invited to join us for a live watch of a very special episode [Jenny gasps] that you know as Amends. Not only-
Jenny: 'Tis the season, whatever that means!
Kristin: 'Tis, 'tis, Jenny! And not only is this the episode where we get Joyce and Faith together, we get-
Jenny: Hell yes!
Kristin: The historical blizzard of 1999-
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: Or whatever it was-
Jenny: The great Sunnydale snowstorm of '99.
Kristin: Right. [laughs] But we also get-this is the origin episode of the name of Angel On Top, our Angel podcast. So there's a lot of fun shit in this episode.
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: If you're a patron of ours, you can join us to watch Amends together, 2PM. 2PM Eastern, that is, on December the 12th. And just a reminder for this, for the next thing I'm about to talk about, for anything that is digitally offered on our Patreon, all of our black and indigenous listeners can access that for free. Just go to bufferingthevampireslayer.com/justkeepfighting. If you wanna become a patron, you can do that on that website. Just click on Patreon. We make it really easy.
Jenny: Hey, I-I just did some mental hell math and stop writing your emails right now. I wanna correct myself and say that it was the great Sunnydale snowstorm of 1998.
Kristin: Ohh!
Jenny: 'Cause it's about to turn into 1999, but we're not there yet.
Kristin: I see. Okay, '98. Thank you for that correction, Jenny.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: 3:30 PM Eastern time, so just a mere moment after we finish watching Amends, Jenny, you're gonna delight us with some holiday songs, aren't you?
Jenny: I friggin' am! We're gonna bust out the yule log, you know? [Kristin laughs] Deck the friggin' halls.
Kristin: I think that belongs in the Sexual Tension Award section of this intro, but um…
Jenny: Mmm. [cackles]
Kristin: All that to say, Jenny will be-
Jenny: It's gonna be like… [sings] "'Tis the season, whatever that means!"
Kristin: [sings] "Fa la la la la, la la la la!" Anyway. We're gonna do a singalong, we're gonna do a hang. And this is for all of our $10 and higher patrons, so comejoin us. December the 12th, 2 PM Eastern for the watch, 3:30 PM Eastern for the singalong. And perhaps I'll make some cocoa, who knows what will happen?
Jenny: Woo!
Kristin: Mine will include mini marshmallows.
Jenny: Nice.
Kristin: I'm on Team Spike for this one.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm. What else can we tell you? Just a few things. Brittany Ashley will be guest hosting on next week's Angel On Top, so that's something you can look forward to. We're gonna be taking the week of the 25th off for some holiday, I can never remember what it is. And we'll be back on December 30th with our episode for All The Way.
Kristin: Hell yes! One quick email, before we roll into this live episode. Jenny, this email came from Kai. We asked a couple questions about plumbing last week. Don't you worry!
Jenny: Hell yeah.
Kristin: Kai has got us to confirm your suspicions. The plumbing stuff is bullshit. First of all, there's not enough pressure-
Jenny: Mmhmm!
Kristin: To make those pipes explode all at once. Second, unless things are done very differently in southern California, the pipe that Buffy attempts to fix is not a water pipe. [Jenny laughs] That type of pipe and fitting is used for gas. Thirdly, if the pipes were replaced, it would probably be with PEX, plastic, flexible pipe. It's cheaper, so Buffy should ask Tito to price that out. Thank you, Kai.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: We can all rest easy going into this holiday season, that if our pipes burst, they shan't burst like that. [laughs]
Jenny: Uh, what a blessing.
Kristin: Yes. Well, Jenny. Are you ready to walk back into the land of your birthday?
Jenny: Yes! Take me back [Kristin laughs] to when I was freshly 39!
Kristin: [laughs] Here we go.
NOTES: [Buffering theme song plays]
Kristin: So now, it's like we're in the theater. You're all taking your seats. Jenny and I are backstage.
Jenny: Yeah. And then Kristin plays the edited credits that we are-
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: We've been inserted into and everyone-it gets to me, and everyone's like [cheers] yeah! [Kristin laughs] And then it gets to Kristin, and everybody's like, tight, yeah, that's also chill.
Kristin: Wow, wow, wow.
Jenny: But it's Jenny's birthday-
Kristin: Wow!
Jenny: So we're gonna make sure her cheer is-just kidding!
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: Oh my god, we love Kristin just as much!
Kristin: And then in the credits, of course, the Buffy the Vampire Slayer theme would sort of like-you could maybe do the guitar out, Jenny.
Jenny: Uh. [sings tune] [Kristin laughs] And then we fucking trot out onto stage. Kristin walks very sophisticatedly, and then I do kind of like, dog laps around the stage. [Kristin laughs] With my cape flapping in the breeze. And then we sit down at a table, covered in a black tablecloth, available from any catering supply store! [Kristin laughing] [dramatically] And then we lean in towards our microphones on their tabletop stands. And I say… hello! And welcome! To Buffering the Vampire Slayer! [Kristin laughs] A podcast! Where we're watching discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, one by one, spoiler free. I! Am! Birthday girl, Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: And the crowd goes wild!
Jenny: That's right.
Kristin: They probably break into a coordinated Happy Birthday song for Jenny.
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: Lauren's there, playing the euphonium.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: It's beautiful, and I-
Jenny: Buffering listeners, bringing back the flash mob, [Kristin laughs] one more time, just like Buffy was resurrected at the beginning of this season.
Kristin: Ohh. And then I say, though it is not my birthday, I am Kristin Russo. Same age as-
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: Your host, Jenny Owen Youngs. And this week-this very special week-we're talking about Buffy Season 6, Episode 5, Life Serial. Spelled S-E-R-I-A-L. A pun on the breakfast food.
Jenny: Get it?
Kristin: Stay tuned at the end of this podcast every other week for an original song, written by Jenny, sometimes with help from Kristin, recapping-
Jenny: Hmm.
Kristin: [laughs] The Buffy episode we are discussing.
Jenny: [dramatically] Life Serial was written by David Fury and Jane Espenson and directed by lover of consonants, Nick! Marck!
Kristin: Nick Marck!
Jenny: And originally aired on October 23rd, 2001 but I'll tell you what. Today… [Kristin laughs] is November 22nd, 2020. And it is zero days before or after my 39th birthday. Happy birthday to me!
Kristin: Happy birthday to you, Jenny. Welcome to Sagittarius season.
Jenny: Oh! Heh-heh-oh!
Kristin: It's time, we're there. We've waited-we've waited through all the other seasons and we've finally arrived.
Jenny: [energetically] I'm-are you ready?! For fun facts! [Kristin laughs] Are you ready?! For spontaneous adventure!
Kristin: I'm ready.
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: Personally.
Jenny: Cool.
Kristin: I'm personally ready. Hey, um, IMDB tells us that this is the episode where-[clears throat] Buffy's powers are tested by Andrew, Jonathan and Warren, who seek to expose and exploit her weaknesses in an effort to destroy her. Hmm. Three white men trying to find Buffy's weaknesses in an effort-
Jenny: Hmm.
Kristin: To destroy her. Hmmm.
Jenny: But first. [both laugh] Buffy's back from her road trip, and just like every time I have gone to visit my 245-year-old, [Kristin laughs] re-ensouled vampire boyfriend after I was recently resurrected after five months in the ground-after those meetings, of which there have been many.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: I always pick up fried chicken on the way home, myself.
Kristin: Always. Always.
Jenny: That is me.
Kristin: No call. No-don't check in. Just get a bucket of fried chicken. It gives us a couple of things. It gives us, of course, the moment of Buffy realizing that, you know, life had kinda gone on without her. She left, she went to see Angel. I wanted to say, as you well know, we have special guest LaToya Ferguson. And so we're not going to ruminate on Angel and Buffy and their meeting here. We're gonna wait for LaToya.
Jenny: Damn ri-we would not dare, uh, to step on LaToya's toes, in terms of any speculation-
Kristin: No.
Jenny: About this Buffy/Angel tryst.
Kristin: You know, I read-so there's a Dark Horse comic. It's called Reunion, it's in two parts. And it's written, I believe, by Jane Espenson, called Reunion-if I didn't already just say that. And-[both laugh]
Jenny: You did.
Kristin: I did. I know. I could tell-
Jenny: Narrator voice: she did.
Kristin: [laughs] I could tell from your face that I did. [Jenny laughs] So I read it today, because I thought, like, oh, this will tell us what happened. But all the comic is is Willow, Xander and Dawn and Anya, imagining what happened. Like, there's actually no-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Confirmation. I will say that Anya's imagination takes her to a Denny's in Oxnard, which I'm a personal fan of. I do think Oxnard is probably about the halfway point between these two. Anyway. We learn that Buffy has arrived with chicken, and everybody's eating. Giles tries to fucking play it off in a very hilarious moment. [Jenny laughs] "We didn't eat yet!" And then he's like, I definitely am chewing on food right now.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: I have to tell the truth. And it also gives us-I actually don't like this at all. But it gives us a little quip between Willow and Tara. Jenny, do you wanna talk to everybody about that quip?
Jenny: Well! What happens is… everybody is saying-everybody's just trying to make Buffy feel better and are requesting specific pieces of chicken from her bucket. And Willow says, "I'm a breast girl myself." And then she looks at Tara and says, "But then, you knew that already."
Kristin: Tara's stoked. Tara's so stoked. [Jenny sings a little tune] Giles is all of us. I don't know, maybe you're-you're either a Tara or a Giles in this situation.
Jenny: Just don't do this in front of Giles, I think-
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Would be the main… takeaway.
Kristin: In front of Dad, you're gonna say-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: You're a breast girl and then look at your girlfriend's breasts? It's a lot. It's a lot for me to handle. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah…
Kristin: So… after we get that beautiful exchange. You know, they really make Willow talk about boobs a lot. I was just remembering that she also had that moment with the eggs, where they were shaking at her, jiggling at her. Remember the boob eggs?
Jenny: Oh. [groans] Now, those are some… boobs I'd rather not remember. [Kristin laughs] Whatever. I-the jiggle-it's just-the jiggling of eggs, of fried eggs-
Kristin: Yeah, it's not-
Jenny: Is not for Jenny.
Kristin: Getting really off the point.
Jenny: Sorry, sorry, sorry.
Kristin: No, it's my fault. It's actually breasts' fault. It's the fault of breasts. Can I tell you how angry I am?
Jenny: I wish you would! I need to know!
Kristin: Buffy's been back from the dead for, what? A couple weeks, maybe? Like, how long's she been back? Give her the most-let's give her the most amount of time she's been back.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah. However long she's been back, it has not been long enough for anybody to be asking her, "what are you gonna do with your life?"
Kristin: Exactly! She sits down and Giles is like-also, she sits, like, minutes after arriving back from reuniting with her ensouled ex-boyfriend, after he thought that she was dead. She was dead, and now-and you're gonna be like, "so what are your plans?" So that's-first point of anger is, hold-hold up! It's way too soon for this. Second point of anger is-she's the Slayer. This will run through my discussion of this episode. [laughs] She's the one! [Jenny sighs] The one- well, actually, sorry, Faith. She's [laughs] technically one of two-Slayers on the face of this Earth, insofar as we are to understand. And they're asking her what she wants to do with her life?
Jenny: I-yeah. Yeah, I'm with you. I'm with you.
Kristin: Thank you.
Jenny: But you know, they're gonna just think up some stuff that she could try out this episode, to see if any of it's for her. [Kristin laughs] The first thing that she is gonna try out is auditing classes.
Kristin: [laughing] Yeah.
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: Fair.
Jenny: Meanwhile.
Kristin: Meanwhile. Oh my god, Jonathan rocking a polo shirt. Just absolutely destroying this polo shirt. [laughs]
Jenny: So this is actually, if I'm not mistaken, a rugby shirt. Indicated by the sort of, like, the contrast color collar? And then, like, the thicker stripes. And that-I'm not try-I wasn't trying to be corrective. [laughs] I just-you know.
Kristin: No, no, I-I can tell, because you've gotten the studious Jenny look to your face. Like, very serious.
Jenny: I-okay. [both laugh] Well. The thing is that usually, what makes a rugby shirt work, to me, is like, bold colors and like, high contrast. But for some reason, Jonathan is wearing a, like, beige and slightly darker beige striped rugby shirt. [both laugh] Which is like-
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: I'm wondering if it's a message about these boys.
Kristin: Mmm. Beige on beige?
Jenny: You know what I mean? Yeah.
Kristin: A little too much beige for comfort?
Jenny: They're just kind of… you know.
Kristin: Yeah. It's a lot. They're, you know, rolling around in that money that they got last episode, still.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: We saw that they had installed, like, a periscope and gotten some other things. They had upgraded, I think, from their beanbags? Although to be honest with you, maybe they kept the beanbags. And they are-
Jenny: There's a beanbag in the freaking van later, is what I'll tell you.
Kristin: Well, so maybe they moved-maybe they relocated the beanbags to the van. It's a nice van. It is very-like, it's very technologically advanced. It even has one of those little fucking news hatches at the top where the fucking thing can come out, you know? And they're like, we're going to-they set up the plot of this episode. "We are going to test the weaknesses of the Slayer." Which, I mean, you know, we're not gonna give the Trio credit many times. But-
Jenny: But this is a good concept.
Kristin: It is a good concept, it is. It is a good concept to find out, like, how she reacts to things. They say at one point in the episode, like, "we've logged her reaction time and her this and her that." That's-that's pretty smart. Andrew… bless. He has-beautiful, beautiful spray paint art by Andrew on the side of this van.
Jenny: Um. This is an incredible rendering of the Death Star. He's just airbrushing it up.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: You know?
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Which is tight, but is not discreet. And then Andrew and Jonathan get into a fight about where a specific port or something is supposed to be and, like-
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: They're talking about different designs, different movies. That was an inferior des-it's very-
Kristin: You wanna-Joanna Robinson-
Jenny: [simultaneously] I like when they have tantrums at each other.
Kristin: Joanna Robinson is here and-I don't know if you know this about Joanna Robinson, but I think that, like, she might have some information on, like, white men and their relationships to things like Star Wars. And how perhaps there's, you know, maybe just a little bit of toxicity in the fandom. I don't know, I mean, maybe she doesn't know anything about that. But I will say that as somebody who has recently watched all of the Star Wars movies, that I don't really know much about any of what they're saying. But since Andrew picks the Death Star from Return of the Jedi, I'm gonna side with Andrew. Even though I have no other idea, except for the fact that, like, [Jenny laughs] screw the first three movies. That's my opinion, thank you very much.
Jenny: Okay. Wow.
Kristin: Thank you, Joanna, for allowing me to have that opinion.
Jenny: Okay. Hot-hot takes! Coming in hot with the takes.
Kristin: Got a lot of takes. Then we go to the credits.
Jenny: Then the credits are over. And things sure have changed, at college, since Buffy's day. Back when you said "Professor Walsh" instead of like, "Mike."
Kristin: [laughs] You know, I had a thought-like, to just take us a few focus points back for a second. I was thinking about it, 'cause it is, like-so many of the scenes in this episode are so extreme. This scene, it's just like-Willow-would Willow really not have been like, "yo, this is a fast-paced situation to just drop into." And the sitting down at the table and asking her about her life. And so, I think it's just the way the episode is written. But I also thought, you know, sometimes we think about perspectives and how, like, maybe it's this extreme because it's actually from this person's perspective. And you know, we're seeing that Buffy is obviously experiencing depression and for sure PTSD. I mean, she's dug herself out of her own grave. And so I do wonder too if some of this is reflecting, not necessarily-heh, to play on the class discussion-the reality, the-you know, there are multiple realities, right? And so it could feel-it's possible that this episode is set up to show us that this is how it feels to be Buffy right now. That like, literally no one is taking a beat-it's so much more extreme than perhaps it is. Or everybody's an asshole, I don't know. [laughs]
Jenny: I mean, it's gotta-it has to be perception. Because Willow is not even listening to the response that comes before her when she jumps in. She's busy having a conversation with Buffy, so either it is purely, like, you know, designed to be Buffy's perspective, for us, the viewer. Or this class is so… what's the word, when like, you know, stuff is just like-
Kristin: Like, incestual?
Jenny: No, no, no, no-[laughing] whoa! Wrong class, Kristin!
Kristin: Well, like-[laughs] sorry, I just-there was a lot of-a lot of-
Jenny: Yeah, I think you want A Song of Ice and Fire 101. That's down the hall, actually. [both laugh]
Kristin: But just, like, I mean incestual in a way where, like, this class is just like, all about this class and they only talk about-
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: You know-I meant it like that. [laughs]
Jenny: I was thinking about, like-more like, how one style of education is just to get kids to memorize information without, like, necessarily doing too much work to think about, like, how that information fits into the larger context of the world that we live in?
Kristin: Right. Right, right, right, yeah. [sighs] So Buffy's obviously feeling super lost. Nobody's really comforting her in that, in any sense. And then we go to the hallway, and Warren-you know, again, not a bad move. He slams directly into Buffy with his little hat, his little disguise hat and his little disguise hoodie. And plants this fucking omega pulse sequence generator on her… [laughs] body.
Jenny: [quietly] Oh my god. [groans] Oh my god.
Kristin: Willow, in true Willow form, glares at the figure leaving and says, "Rude-o!" Which I just-I love when we get an old Willow-ism, you know?
Jenny: This was literally me in seventh grade.
Kristin: Rude-o? Dork-o?
Jenny: No, it would be specifically addressing the fact that someone was, like, rude or impolite.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: And that that was, like, a breach of social contract. [Kristin laughs] I was very popular in seventh grade, so.
Kristin: So this thing starts happening, right? The omega pulse sequence is, I guess, created-again, a play on, like, what they were discussing in the class-it's created, like, a second reality for Buffy, where her time moves… slower? And-or it-the time is off? I was trying to figure it out, and every time I tried to figure it out, it gave me a headache. I was like, why don't-like, why wouldn't Tara notice that she's left Buffy in the hall? Do the people see her or feel her or experience her when they're kicking her, like, outside later? Like, what-what is the-how do these two realities interface with each other? You know what I'm saying?
Jenny: It doesn't make a whole lot of sense, I think. I mean, when… okay. First of all, if you're, like, talking to somebody [laughs] and they, like, spaced out for, I don't know, five minutes?
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Do you think you would just, like, walk away from them slowly until you were at the end of the hall, calling back to them, like, "hey! Are you coming to class?" Also, how is the force of people who are walking at regular speed, kicking Buffy across the lawn?
Kristin: Well, that's why I feel like there's more at-somebody said, in the chat, metaphytics. And I think that's really what we have to chalk this entire episode up to, because there's just no-I don't know. You know, maybe LaToya or Joanna will have some input in what the fuck is going on in this time sequence, 'cause I sure don't know. But it's very traumatizing. Buffy very, very aptly crawls under this table to sort of protect her body. And then is like, "something must be on me." And finds this, like, little piece of essentially evil lint, which she calls it later. [laughs]
Jenny: It looks like Warren bought this at Claire's Boutique. It looks like a-
Kristin: The dot? It's like a-
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: It's like a little-it's like a sticker-it's like a stick-on stud-
Jenny: [simultaneously] It's like a single rhinestone.
Kristin: Yeah, yeah, it is.
Jenny: I'm sorry. Did we completely skate over Introduction to Pies?
Kristin: Pies?
Jenny: When Buffy comes out of Mike's class and she's talking about how it was, like, really whipping past her. And she's, like, talking about how she wants to maybe take something that's like-like, ease back into college by maybe taking a class more her speed, such as Introduction to Pies.
Kristin: Ohhh.
Jenny: I just wanted to say. That if anyone is offering that course, I would like to take it. [Kristin laughs] Thank you. Also-sorry, just to tread back over the other stuff that we missed. The other thing that I wanted to say is that Tara references-when she's, like, telling Buffy a story that Buffy only hears the beginning of. She says, "Once Willow and I were watching Spongebob Squarepants." [laughs]
Kristin: [sings] "Who lives in a pineapple under the sea?"
Jenny: Spongebob Squarepants, actually. [Kristin laughs] Thank you for asking!
Kristin: Yes. That's the good-that's the part of Tara's dialogue that I like. The part I don't like is when she talks about Willow's yummy face. I just… I just don't like it. I don't like it.
Jenny: I-ahh!
Kristin: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Like, I have my limits in what I can take and that is one of mine.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: So. You know, Jenny, they get into the van and they start talking about how many points Warren has gotten. So we learn that there is a score system here. Do you have any, you know, idea of how the score system works?
Jenny: It feels arbitrary [both laugh] to me.
Kristin: They're like-
Jenny: It feels extremely-I was-they also never return to these points when the other two compete.
Kristin: 220 for Warren.
Jenny: Whatever that means.
Kristin: [laughs] Literally.
NOTES: [HELLMATH jingle plays] Hellmath!
Kristin: Jenny, I think it's time for a slight costume change. So are you ready for that?
Jenny: Yes. I'm ready. This is the jingle I thought were queueing up.
Kristin: No, this [crosstalk]
Jenny: This scene we're about to scoot over to.
Kristin: For the listeners at home, we're wearing hardhats. You know that, you saw it on social media.
Jenny: Oh, yeah!
Kristin: But also, the hardhats have gotten a new look because we have our over-the-ear headphones on one ear and then over the top of the hardhat. [Jenny laughs] And sort of sitting on the outer edge of the hardhat. It's a look, it's a look.
Jenny: We look very cool!
Kristin: So cool!
Jenny: There's no other way to say it. We look amazing.
Kristin: Yeah. We look strong, capable, and not… [sighs] the way that these construction workers perceive Buffy when she rolls up with Xander.
Jenny: [exhales slowly] Oh, boy. Oh boy!
Kristin: I mean… what's-you know what jingle is coming. I mean, this fucking season is just one big fucking play of this jingle. But let's talk about it a little bit before we get there.
Jenny: Xander's brought Buffy onto the site. Uh, to do a little construction work. She looks adorable. She's got some pigtails, she's got some daisies adorning those pigtails. She's carrying a little pink lunchbox. Adorable. She looks ready. And…
Kristin: Cute. [laughs] Sorry, somebody in the chat just said, "Girl, get your jingle finger ready." And it got me. [both laugh] It got me. Amanda, you got me.
Jenny: Even if Tony feels like this… [Kristin laughs] why would he said it aloud? It just, like-the mind reels. Are people really this terrible? This feels-I have a hard time suspending my disbelief for this scene more than, like, the swamp monsters that are about to hit in a couple minutes.
Kristin: I don't-I don't-
Jenny: You know what I mean? It's just so extreme! But-
Kristin: I don't think it is. I mean, it is, in like, it should never happen. But I don't think it's that extreme. I mean, I think the thing that is extreme, to me, is that Xander doesn't tell them to fucking stop. That's what's a little-and like, Xander of Season 1, Xander if he's, like, afraid of losing his job. He's, like, up there in the ranks of this construction crew. And he doesn't fucking say anything! Like, they call her "Gidget," they-which, like, A-
Jenny: And Britney. And princess!
Kristin: No offense-no offense to princesses, Gidget, or Britney, the point is that Gidgets, Britneys and princesses can fucking do this shit, too. Fuck you! You don't know somebody's strength until they fucking try to lift a beam up. And now I'm gonna play it, because I'm mad.
NOTES: [THE PATRIARCHY jingle plays] The patriarchy! [thunder clap, evil laughter]
Kristin: If you told me a few years ago that I would be sitting inside of a closet, wearing a hardhat, playing the Patriarchy jingle, I would have not understood.
Jenny: Even if you are Gidget'ing and Britney'ing and princess'ing all over this girl that you've never met before-
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Because you are an ass.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Wouldn't, once you watched her pick up a, like, multiple-hundred-pound steel beam-wouldn't you shut the fuck up? Like-
Kristin: No, no. It's like-
Jenny: Wouldn't you… take a knee?
Kristin: No, you wouldn't. You wouldn't, Jenny, you know why? Because it goes from, "we're men and we're stronger than you because obviously, you're wearing pigtails" to "oh fuck, you're wearing pigtails and you're stronger than me, my masculinity is threatened." There is no winning space in this equation, and that is what this scene so beautifully illustrates.
Jenny: Oh, men of construction. [Kristin laughs] My heart cries out to you! We're all victims of the patriarchy, yourselves included.
Kristin: We are. Men of construction. [laughs] Anyhow. [sighs] The van's there.
Jenny: [sarcastically] And thank god… Andrew painted over the Death Star, because now it's not conspicuous at all. [Kristin laughs] It's just blending in and I'm sure that will last.
Kristin: Their-their binoculars… [laughs] their binoculars-
Jenny: The biggest binoculars I've ever seen!
Kristin: Their binoculars are so big that you can actually-if you watch closely, you can see the crew, like, the actual filming crew-in the reflection of the glasses. [both laugh] You can see, like, the camera guys, that's how big it is.
Jenny: Did you notice that on your own? Or-
Kristin: No, I didn't, I didn't. I read it somewhere and then on my watch today, I saw it.
Jenny: Fantastic.
Kristin: Yeah, it's pretty good. They have this-you know, there's a lot of-I think what is important to begin noticing is the silliness of the Trio, as we will now begin calling them, since they have referred to themselves as such. They… they have all these, like, really slapsticky moments, you know? They're, like, very-like, how could these guys be a threat in any way, shape or form? They're, like, arguing about two o'clock and four o'clock.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: They're fucking whatever. So Andrew uses his pan flute in the back of the van, and he summons this trio of Alex Mack demons. I call them that 'cause of the way they melt.
Jenny: I want to mention that, um, while Andrew is playing the pan pipes-the whole thing with pan pipes is the-each pipe is a different length which creates a different pitch. And he moves his mouth across them, but-but-but the pitch just stays the same. And-
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: I reject it.
Kristin: Continuity, you gotta get into those Wiki sites, the Buffy Wiki. You gotta put that in the continuity, gotta let the people know, you know?
Jenny: Hmmm.
Kristin: That's how we find things out.
Jenny: Hmmm.
Kristin: [sighs] So… Buffy kills the demons, of course she does. She's doing full gymnast moves at one point, using like, a pipe and the ceiling to do some kicks. She's using the metal wire, she's using the fucking uppy-downy thing, she's-
Jenny: Ooh. Yeah! Yeah, the uppy-downy thing, the stretch mobile. I would like to put out a call to our listeners. If anybody knows what the uppy-downy, stretch mobile is called, formally, what its mother named it. [Kristin laughs] If you could email us at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com. I would love that, thanks.
Kristin: Cherry picker, somebody said. A scissor lift. A pulley.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Oooh.
Kristin: Oh, there's a lot of theor-a hydraulic press. I like that, Tess, that's a good one. Scissor-everybody is trying to say "scissor lift" so fast that everyone is spelling "scissor lift" wrong. [both laugh] Skyjack-
Jenny: [laughing] A scissoring loft!
Kristin: A scissoring loft.
Jenny: A scissoring loft! [both laugh] Hell yeah!
Kristin: We-as two queer women, we will choose scissor lift. Scissor lift is the official name of this-why would it be called a scissor lift? Anyway.
Jenny: Uh, because the joints, uh, scissor as it extends upwards. And-
Kristin: If you ever wondered why you should attend a live taping, you have no idea the hand gestures that you have been missing in the last five minutes alone from Jenny Owen Youngs. It's been absolutely phenomenal. Buffy kills the demons, and… the van is super-like you said, good thing they painted over that Death Star. But they're so excited about what's happening inside, that fucking Andrew lays on the fucking horn!
Jenny: And it's all like, [singing to the tune of the Star Wars theme song] honk-honk, honkity-honk-honk, honkity-honk-honk, honkity-honk! Wow!
Kristin: [laughs] Which is-which is-there could be no better cue than that one to bring Joanna Robinson… on to stage.
NOTES: [JOANNA ROBINSON jingle] Mmm… Joanna Robinson is here to talk to us About her feelings on the Sunnydale populace
Kristin: Oh!
Jenny: There she is!
Kristin: Joanna Robinson!
Jenny: Hello.
Kristin: Hardhatted and ready to go.
Joanna: Hello!
Kristin: [laughs] Hi!
Joanna: Thank you for playing me in with [sings] honkity-honk-honk! [laughter] Yeah, a real joy. John Williams would be so proud, so thank you for having me.
Jenny: Yeah, do you think that he gets a royalty on the-the sale of that horn? I'm guessing you can only get so many pre-fabbed horn melodies. And you have to buy them, they must be officially licensed.
Joanna: [laughs] Yeah, it's like La Cucaracha and-
Jenny: [laughs] Yes!
Joanna: And the Star Wars theme, that's it, yeah.
Kristin: Yeah, totally. So, you know, I didn't mean-Joanna, you have a lot of feelings about Buffy, in general, you know? I would love to hear-
Joanna: Yeah!
Kristin: We would love to hear all of your thoughts on this episode. But this just seemed like a brilliant place to enter, given your experience… career-wise and pop culture-wise.
Joanna: Well, I would love to talk about the Trio. Because I think they're so interesting. I know we're still early days in this season, but-and I think you and I talked about this a little bit when I was pitch hitting for Jenny. But like, the Trio's so fascinating to me because-okay, so we've got Warren, who had a really creepy introduction to the series. Like, you know-
Jenny: Ugh.
Joanna: The whole, like, Buffybot times. Like, that's one of the creepier sort of monster of the week situations that we've seen. And then we have Jonathan, who's, like, one of the more, like, sympathetic, you know, villain of the week-if you even wanna call him that. You know, he's in the background of the series for so long. He gives Buffy the umbrella. Like, he means so much to the series. So you have these two characters and then you have Andrew, who's someone we've never met before. But Tom Lenk is such, like, a fun, chaotic, like, addition. And so you just don't know exactly how seriously you're supposed to take these boys. They're really funny. Warren is a creep, but Jonathan, we love. So is this just, like, something to laugh at or is it something to be worried about? And I think that is so interesting-
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Joanna: The way that they sort of Trojan Horse these guys in here. So. Yeah. Does that make sense?
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah.
Joanna: Yeah, and I've written about this season-this season was not one that I liked very much when I was watching it live. As did-like, a lot of fans called this, uh, "Season Sucks." [Kristin laughs] And Season something else, which I won't say, because it's probably considered a spoiler. But yeah, it wasn't very popular. And-but I think, in retrospect-and like, for a couple reasons. Like, one is, um… I don't know how much you guys have talked about this already, right, but like, Joss has spread himself thin 'cause he's doing Angel and Firefly at this time.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Joanna: He leaves Marti in charge. Marti Noxon, we love, of course, but like, Marti Noxon leading the show is gonna feel different than Joss leading the show.
Kristin: Mmm.
Joanna: And I think-you know, I didn't love it at the time. Because I loved high school Buffy. That was, like, my Buffy. But watching it years later, I'm like, Season 6 is really prescient in a lot of ways, in terms of what it has to say about exactly this kind of, like, toxic online fandom, nerddom-male-white-male driven sort of thing. It's fun to watch the boys debate, like, Star Wars or later, James Bond, or whatever it is. Like, that's fun, like, funny, nerdy, Kevin Smith-esque sort of like, on-screen nerd representation. But like, the fact that the show is interested in, you know-and I think we can say that based on this-like, what they put Buffy through in this episode alone.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Joanna: Like, they're interested in something really damaging, as well, in order to show their own power. And that-I've come to really appreciate this season for that reason. So, yeah.
Kristin: A lot of people in the chat, Joanna, are asking your opinions on some of the arguments had by the Trio.
Joanna: Oh. [laughs]
Kristin: I don't know if you have any. They're asking your thoughts on the Death Star. They're asking-oh, actually, I don't know if anybody asked. But I'm curious about the Bond argument. Do you feel-
Jenny: I also have some Bond input!
Kristin: Okay, okay-[laughs]
Jenny: Not-I just-I wanna be part of things. Okay.
Kristin: Jenny's panicking. "Let me talk about Bond too!"
Jenny: Well.
Kristin: But yeah-so maybe we could take a minute and you can both discuss-I have, really, not much input apart from what I already said.
Joanna: I dunno, Jenny, do you have strong Death Star feelings?
Jenny: I have actually neg-like, zero-
Joanna: Yeah.
Jenny: Less than zero feelings-
Joanna: Yeah.
Jenny: About the Death Star. [Kristin laughs]
Joanna: Yeah. Whatever the opposite of deep interest is, that's how I feel about which Death Star should be used there. [Jenny laughs]
Kristin: Great. Great. Great, great, great. But everybody-
Joanna: But I support it on the side of a van. Like, in general, having a Death Star-
Kristin: Yes.
Joanna: On the side of your van, I think is a great-is a great look. [Kristin laughs]
Jenny: Totally.
Joanna: But like, which one it is-you could even do Star Killer base, I don't really care. And then-but Bonds, like, Jenny, do you have strong-strong Bond feelings?
Jenny: Okay. These are my Bond feelings. As far as I'm concerned-as-like, as far as my brain is concerned, James Bond is Pierce Brosnan because that's the Bond that was, like, happening when I was paying attention. You know?
Joanna: Right.
Jenny: But-so, I did some Googling. And I looked at Sean Connery, Timothy Dalton, and Roger Moore as Bond-
Joanna: Uh-huh.
Jenny: In a variety of settings. And these are my findings. Roger Moore seems like a fucking snooze. Timothy Dalton, I thought I would be into because I just watched the original strain of Penny Dreadful. And I was like… hot grandpa, cool vibe.
Joanna: Sure. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Jenny: And I thought I would be like, wow-
Joanna: Mustache king. Yeah.
Jenny: And like, he looks smokin' hot in, like, a handful of Bond pics.
Joanna: Mmm.
Jenny: But mostly he looks, like, goofy or like, he's about to do a prank or something? [Kristin laughs]
Joanna: Yeah.
Jenny: So, um, his personal life completely removed from the equation-like, whatever we might think of him as a person to the side. Sean Connery, on paper or on a silver screen, in a tuxedo with the hair and everything, like, that's-of these three options, that one looks the coolest. And I feel like that is, like, 95% of James Bond.
Joanna: Yeah.
Kristin: Someone in the chat just said, "Jenny Owen Youngs, Bond hunk-ologist."
Joanna: Oooh!
Kristin: Thank you, Krista.
Jenny: Did I fuck up, Joanna? Please tell me how.
Joanna: No, I don't think you did. Connery, I agree. Number one Bond, classic Bond, number one Bond. I actually put Daniel Craig as number two Bond, just because, like, I think what he was doing with that character is pretty interesting. Brosnan Bond ranks really high for me, 'cause I was that age. I completely agree. But I think people who enjoy the larger franchise would put Roger Moore above-they love Roger Moore. I don't get it, I'm with you. I watched it, I don't get it, I don't get the Roger Moore appeal. But like, people seem to love him. And then Timothy Dalton, it's tough because Dalton was hired because Pierce Brosnan couldn't get out of his TV contract. And basically, like, Timothy Dalton and Pierce Brosnan do, like, the same flavor Bond.
Jenny: Mmm.
Joanna: And so you're like, Pierce did it a little bit better. So like, Hot Fuzz villain, Timothy Dalton, [Kristin laughs] number one Hot Fuzz villain. But Pierce Brosnan is gonna be a better Bond for me. [Jenny laughs] So those are my Bond opinions, and my Trio opinions. I think it's really-I think it's brilliant what they did, right? 'Cause you-I loved Jonathan. You love Jonathan. I'm not saying you won't love Jonathan at the end of this season, you might. But like, that this complicates that-
Kristin: Yeah.
Joanna: And forces you to reckon with that-
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Joanna: In a way that is more complicated than just, like, bringing Warren back by himself or something like that. So. When I was thinking about Season 6 of Buffy, I was thinking about it, like, through the lens of the conversation that we're having about-we were having-when I wrote that, I think it was 2017? We were having a lot of discussions about Joss and, like, Joss's behavior, personally. And how that impacted our feelings about this show that we love-to have, you know, someone who's a com-let's say complicated, to be as hands-off as possible-person, you know, in the driver's seat of that story. Like, what does that mean? What does-what kind of feminism is on display in this show?
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Joanna: And so for this season to examine the, like-the white-boy nerdery and some of the, like-frankly, some of the tendencies we've seen from Xander that the show hasn't always been interested in interrogating. I feel like it's finally getting around to interrogating, so.
Kristin: Do you have-
Joanna: All of this feels really fun to say with a hardhat on my head. [Kristin and Jenny laugh]
Kristin: Yeah. Before-I just wanna know-and maybe, like-maybe the answer is in here, in the conversation already, about the things that we've discussed. But like, you know, I do think that-I've heard from a lot of people indirectly, and I believe you've experienced directly, some of the toxicity in fandoms. And I just wonder if you have anything to say about that. Like, there is a conscious decision to make these guys love these properties that, like, we love. Right?
Joanna: Yeah.
Kristin: I mean, like, that are in this space. And so, I don't know. I don't know. Maybe there's not anything smart to say, but if there is, I know that you'd be the person to say it. [laughs]
Joanna: Well, I mean, exactly. It's-it was-it's so early. That's what this is, that really surprises me. That this, like-this season happens before Gamergate, before, like, the Star Wars-you know, before we had so much of the internet to expose a groupthink that can come from a certain strain of nerddom. You know what I mean? It's obviously, hashtag not all men, not all white men, not all nerds. You know, like, all that's true. But like, what's true is that when you get a bunch of people collectively losing their shit that, like, a couple of women are gonna play Ghostbusters, [Kristin laughs] that's a white-male-led movement. And that's the sort of thing that this is tapping into, eons before its time.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Joanna: And that's what I really admire in retrospect. And you know, like, Marti Noxon has always been interested in, like, female darkness and male toxicity. That's, like, her-that's her vibe. That's where she lives. [laughter] And this is just her, like, playground this season. So, um, you know, here we go.
Kristin: Joanna Robinson, we love you forever. Hope to hear from you again in the very near future.
Joanna: Yeah, whenever that might be. Happy birthday, Jenny. [Kristin laughs]
Jenny: Oh my god, thank you!
NOTES: [JOANNA ROBINSON jingle] Mmm… Joanna Robinson is here to talk to us About her feelings on the Sunnydale populace
Kristin: [sighs] Joanna Robinson, such a delight. Jenny, would you like to take a break from your hardhat? I think it's time to take a break from the hardhats. I saw you adjust-
Jenny: Oh!
Kristin: I mean, we can keep them on for the rest of the show if you-
Jenny: I just had to switch ear.
Kristin: You okay?
Jenny: I had to switch Airpod ear, so I had to switch headphone-
Kristin: [simultaneously] Are we keep-are we keeping-are we keeping them on for the duration of the episode or are we taking them off at some point-
Jenny: It sounds like you'd like to take them off.
Kristin: No, no, no, no! Well, I think at some point, I'd like to take them off. But-
Jenny: I just think we have a little more work to do in these hardhats, you know?
Kristin: It's true. It's-you know, when you're right, you're right.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Um, so… wow. The only other thing that I wanna say about this construction scene is that-well, I guess we already talked about it, really. That, like, even when witnessing-there's a lot of gaslighting happening.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: There's a lot of-a lot of gaslighting happening in this episode and in particular, in this scene, with people really-Xander specifically. He sort of, like, is on board with the idea that something's going on, so he gets, like, a couple pennies for that. I don't know if you know any stories about two pennies, Jenny. But he gets-
Jenny: Mm, nothing comes to mind, for some reason.
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah. He gets a couple pennies. But other than that, like, he really is-he's, like, angry with her. He's angry with her that demons have showed up to his job site. Which seems really fucked up even if she was not recovering from massive trauma? But like, given the situation, it's just-it's especially bum-it especially bums me out.
Jenny: I have to tell you something and I don't know if you are aware of it.
Kristin: I'm ready.
Jenny: Are you ready? Are-
Kristin: Oh, probably-
Jenny: Is there something in, like, the first minute of the magic shop-of the Magic Box scene that, like, blew your fuck-that, like… blew your knickers up, or whatever?
Kristin: Oh…
Jenny: Got your panties in a twist?
Kristin: My god. You are not allowed to talk about my knickers nor my panties, thank you very much. [both laugh]
Jenny: I mean, the proverbial "your," not like, your individual knickers. Come on.
Kristin: [laughing] No. What are you talking about? No knickers or panties in a bunch over here.
Jenny: [laughs] Okay, I'm sorry. [both laugh] I was just trying to find out if you caught this thing that I caught-
Kristin: Oh, is that-no, it's not.
Jenny: On my final-on my most recent watch that I had never noticed before, okay. So. Buffy's working retail, even though she just said, like, three minutes ago that she'd rather die than work retail.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: And Anya's explaining special orders. And we see the camera in the eye of skull, which is so stu-I'm so mad! It's so obvious. It's right frickin' there! But that's not-
Kristin: It's literally where anyone would put a camera.
Jenny: Exactly. So while Anya is explaining special orders and holds, she says, "Let me illustrate this for you by sharing a humorous anecdote about a customer. There was a customer who wanted to order a sapphire-well, dingdong."
Kristin: [not getting it] Yeah.
Jenny: A dingdong!
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: A dildo!
Kristin: Wait, what?!
Jenny: Surely!
Kristin: What?
Jenny: A sapphire ding-if a dingdong is something other than a dick or something dick adjacent, I will… do something. [both laugh] Untoward.
Kristin: That's-that's what that means?!
Jenny: It is-she's definitely talking about a sapphire dingdong that pairs nicely with a crystal dildo. [laughs]
Kristin: Do you think it was Tara, disguising her voice, calling into the magic shop?
Jenny: [gasps] Somebody said they're on Etsy! Somebody just said they're on Etsy, hang on.
Kristin: So-Jenny! Now is not the time to touch any buttons. [laughs]
Jenny: Okay, you're right, you're right, you're right, you're right. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. You're right. You're right. When you're right, you're right.
Kristin: [laughs] Wow, okay, so-
Jenny: Okay!
Kristin: Wow. Wow. Wow. I was so confused by what it meant. I literally was like, I don't understand this joke. Dingdong. Is dingdong-
Jenny: No. It's definitely… she's definitely talking about what you think she's talking about. Especially because of the way that she works up to it.
Kristin: Right!
Jenny: She's like-has, like, a nervous laugh and she's like, all-
Kristin: Which makes it, like, even more fun that the Trio is-
Jenny: Which made me think, was she the customer? [laughs]
Kristin: Wow. I did not know we were going there. A swift turn from knickers and panties to sapphire dildos. It is Buffering the Vampire Slayer.
Jenny: [laughs] So! Buffy's working retail, even though thir-just three minutes ago, she said she would rather die than work retail. [Kristin laughs] And then she's explaining special orders [laughs] and holds. And then there's a camera in the eye of the skull-
Kristin: Stop talking about my knickers! [both laugh] I do wanna say, there's a bit of a cutaway in the van, which we'll talk about, 'cause I-well, I wanna talk about it. But I just wanted to say that a listener wrote in, Sarah Duncan, who-one of many things in Sarah's email was, "can you, for Jenny's birthday, do a time loop on the podcast?" To which my head exploded, and I was like, even I, Kristin Russo, have my limits. I don't know how to possibly execute such a thing.
Jenny: [quietly] For my birthday?
Kristin: But Sarah was like, it's actually very common for birthdays to be connected with time loops. That, like, that's a thing that happens. A Russian doll was referenced and some other stuff. Anyway. Sarah wrote in, because Sarah studied time loops extensively in school, and is now writing-
Jenny: Sarah…
Kristin: A fucking book on time loops in film and TV and the cultural work that they do, and the societal trends that they reflect and radical liberatory potential of the loop. So fuck everybody with-all of you, because I can't, with how we can crowdsource people. But can I just read you a little bit of Sarah's email? It's a brilliant email and it has a lot of points, but I pulled one out for us today.
Jenny: Hit me.
Kristin: [giggles] "In the context of Buffy coming back from heaven, she is experiencing human life as an obstacle course and she's experiencing working in retail (prime capitalism) as circular and suffocating. Just as suffocating as she is finding her friends and being back to life. But in the time loop, Buffy gets an opportunity to behave in ways she can't with her friends at this point. She insults people, she stamps on Giles's glasses, she says nonsense, she throws candles, she takes out her aggression. She rips the fucking bell off the door." I put the "fucking" in, could you tell? "And she has adult tantrums, very reasonably. She doesn't get to be free to behave this way around her friends right now. She's on eggshells with them and they on her. While obviously the retail loop is not fun for Buffy, so to speak, it gives her a certain freedom at a time when she feels particularly trapped. Also, capitalism is a looping grind, and the people behind the capitalist loop are white men." Done. Sarah-by the way, Sarah-with an H-M. Duncan dot com, if you wanna learn more about that time loop book.
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: 'Cause fucking yes!
Jenny: Yes?
Kristin: Yes. Sometimes we don't have to do the work-
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Sometimes Sarah Duncans email us and do the work for us, you know?
Jenny: [laughs] Um. Yes. I do know.
Kristin: I'm like, "the bell rings!" [both laugh]
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: "Did ya see how many time-did ya-check out that mummy hand! How about when it had the tongs, that was funny!" That's, like, Kristin's cultural analysis. [laughs]
Jenny: [laughs] Uh, yes. [clears throat] I like that, in this cutaway to the van-
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: There is, like, a brief moment where, I think, Warren is talking and he says, like, "Uh, you know, like, college, construction, retail. She's completely without focus." [both laugh] And then immediately his brain shifts to searching for free porn on the-on the van television. So.
Kristin: Right. Well-and this is-like, I'm not giving Warren any credit. I will never give Warren a single iota of credit, so you know-
Jenny: Nah.
Kristin: Take that, you know. But I will say that I do like this moment that we get here. Because Jonathan-Jonathan's about to do the spell that will cause this time loop that we were just discussing in the Magic Box. And he says, "I need you to hold hands," and Andrew panics and is like, "With each other?!" Warren, meanwhile, like, immediately goes to grab his hand, like-it's odd. Because you would think that, like, in this patriarchal trio of dudes, that there would be sort of rampant homophobia. But Warren is, like, especially comfortable with his sexuality-like, he just seems very comfortable with his sexuality. He doesn't bat an eye at holding Andrew's hand.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And he says, "Well, you know what homophobia really means about you, don't you?" And then Jonathan, to break it up with a little magic bone humor, says, "Stop touching my magic bone." So. There's, like, some homosexuality in this scene that is used to explain how men can sometimes relate to each other, when they feel uncomfortable and they want to say "no homo." Um. [Jenny laughs] But I think it's a good-I like the-I mean, listen. To our knowledge, everyone in this van-we don't know their sexualities. We know that Warren likes robots and also women. And who knows about the rest of them. But I do like the moment of uncomfortability that we see from Andrew and the way that it's sort of, like, acknowledged in a way that's not… Warren's really fucked in so many ways. But like, the way that he ack-the way that he makes that joke does not make me feel bad. It, like-it really makes me feel like he's like, leaving a space for his pal to be like, yo, like, do you feel uncomfortable about this 'cause there's something you wanna tell us? Again, fuck Warren, but.
Jenny: I'm familiar with this tactic as more of a… something unpleasant-
Kristin: Mm.
Jenny: Like, more of an attack. Or an insinuation-like, an unpleasant insinuation.
Kristin: A lot of-I'm watching the chat. I shouldn't watch the chat. This is a live taping, what are we doing? [both laugh] But yes, yes. I don't know. I just-I didn't think it was the worst, that it happened. But everyone is with you, yes. Thank you, Jenny.
Jenny: Yes, everyone's thanking me.
Kristin: Thank you, Jenny-Jenny-
Jenny: Ahh, hero of the-rare hero moment of the pod!
Kristin: Thank god.
Jenny: Jenny Owen Youngs!
Kristin: Thank god that one of the two 39-year-old hosts was correct in her analysis.
Jenny: [laughing] What the fuck? [Kristin laughs] I have two possible solutions for you.
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: One is a lemon seduction candle and the other one is essence of slug. Which do you choose?
Kristin: [chanting] Slug! Slug! Slug! Slug! Slug!
Jenny: For slug, turn to page 69.
Kristin: [laughs] So obviously, we're not going to execute a time loop here in the podcast. I wish we could, but we need some-I don't know how to do that. I don't know how to do it in an entertaining way, in a way that doesn't make our brains just totally melt. [both laugh] But there are some things in the time loops that I would like to bring up, because they're fun.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Or I just have something to say about them. I love-Sarah Michelle Gellar, killin' it. Killin' it. I mean, she's been killin' it-
Jenny: Doing so great.
Kristin: I mean, really, she's been killin' it since she was playing Buffy the Vampire Slayer. But the first loop, when she has the hand on the Dagger of Lex and she says, "It's just playing dead, little scamp." Smacks it. [Jenny laughs] So good! It's so good. That's a moment that I love. Anya telling Buffy in the second loop to keep calm, and the way she can keep calm is by picturing [laughing] herself naked.
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: So good.
Jenny: "Just do what I do. Picture yourself naked." Hell yeah, Anya!
Kristin: Scully gets brought up. The X-Files gets brought up, actually. I didn't know if you had anything to say about that, as an X-Files viewer.
Jenny: Uh, yeah, yeah. Well, they reference the sort of, like, time loop occurring inan episode of Star Trek: Next Generation, an episode of The X-Files. There's also an episode of Xena that does it. This-this has shown up in a lot of shows, in a lot of genre shows, over time, and those are three. I think my favorite thing that happens in this whole time loop situation is when the mummy hand has the tongs-
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: And is, like, clacking them. At Buffy. In a threatening manner.
Kristin: I laugh-I, like, guffaw like an old fucking lady watching my stories. I, like, guffaw when the fucking hand has the tongs.
Jenny: [laughing] Oh my god…
Kristin: I agree with you, it's really funny. [laughs] So you know, the smart stuff about the time loop was already said. Thankfully, we have very smart listeners. I also love when Buffy rips the bell off the door. And basically, this-
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: The purpose of this time loop is to-like, I should say, the key to this time loop is that she has to please this customer who wants the mummy hand. She has to figure out a way to please the customer who wants the mummy hand. It's like an escape room, but in a time loop.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: She sorts it right away. She, as we read in Sarah's brilliant email, figures out quite quickly that she can do whatever the fuck she wants and nobody is going to notice. And has all of these rounds of trying to tackle the mummy hand, what have you. And then she fucking realizes… thank god, that she can do a shipment. You fill out two shipment slips, as Giles has told her in the beginning. Anya and Giles, paired so beautifully in their love for order in their retail shop. And so she sells the mummy hand and the time loop stops.
NOTES: [AD BREAK]
Jenny: Buffy quits and we hear the door bell ring for the last time.
Kristin: Do-do you think that the doorbell… goes ding-dong? Or… [laughs]
Jenny: No, it clearly goes "ding-ding." It very clearly goes "ding-ding."
Kristin: Okay.
Jenny: [clears throat] Okay-
Kristin: Oh! Look what it's time for!
Jenny: It's now time-
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: It's now time, the time has arrived.
Kristin: Wow. Wow, wow, wow. Jenny, I'm gonna prepare-come in and prepare the stage. Before we talk about anything-well, first of all, everybody is flipping out that Joanna Robinson and LaToya Ferguson are on screen together.
Jenny: Oh, hell yeah.
Kristin: So is there anything that you would like to discuss with each other before we do our shot?
Joanna: I am so thrilled and honored to be here with LaToya. I've been, like, such a huge, like, fan of yours, like-
LaToya: Same! Same, same, same.
Joanna: From afar, for, like, ever.
LaToya: No, fan of yours, not fan of me. But yeah, you know what I mean.
NOTES: [laughter]
Joanna: I got so excited when I found out that you were gonna take over the Angel podcast. I lost my-I think I, like, DM'ed you when I found out you had a Vampire Diaries podcast. 'Cause I didn't know, and I was like, I will come on to talk about Ian Somerhalder any time you want me to. [Kristin and Joanna laugh]
LaToya: Yeah, we're ramping up now to do our bonus episodes and possibly start a Patreon, however that works. So. [laughs]
Joanna: Call me, I wanna come on, talk about how Caroline is the best and Elena's boring. And all of that.
Jenny: Mm!
Kristin: Careful, I'm only on Episode 12. [laughs]
LaToya: We're a pro-Elena podcast, Prelena, if you will. [laughs]
Joanna: She's fine. She's fine. Anyway. Huge fan is all I wanna say. [Kristin and LaToya laugh]
LaToya: I love you too, Joanna.
Kristin: Bef-Joanna, before we do our shot and then talk to LaToya, somebody has asked that we try to do a four-a four-way high five in the corner. Can we do it? And somebody grab the-are we all-okay, so we're all in different places-
Jenny: Oh…
Joanna: Kristin, yours-
LaToya: Which corner?
Jenny: Ohhh.
Kristin: Shit.
Joanna: Your hand is-
Kristin: We're all different.
Joanna: Yeah, yeah. Ohh.
Kristin: I'm in my internal corner, but yeah, we'll-[crosstalk]
Joanna: This is like a coffin-a coffin high five.
Kristin: Oh okay, yeah, that's true, that's true.
Joanna: A coffin high five?
LaToya: So we're doing this?
Kristin: [laughing] My arms aren't long enough to reach…
LaToya: Wow, my wingspan really isn't that long, I'm realizing. [laughter]
Kristin: I know! Same, I'm like… [laughs]
LaToya: [laughing] I don't like anything that's happening here.
Kristin: Okay, great. Um…
Joanna: So we did that.
Jenny: We did it, it's over, okay. [laughs]
LaToya: Okay, can I lead us into this shot? 'Cause I made a promise on Twitter, so I have to live up to it, I guess.
Joanna: Oh, nice.
LaToya: Happy birthday, Jenny.
Jenny: [gasps] Thank you.
LaToya: [singing] I can't change… even if I tried… even if I wanted to… she keeps me warm! [Kristin laughs] Ah! I'm sorry, everyone.
NOTES: [everyone exhales after drinking]
LaToya: I am so sorry.
Jenny: Wow.
Joanna: Blegh!
Kristin: Okay, that shot was bigger than I anticipated it being. Ooh.
LaToya: So sorry.
Jenny: Um, LaToya?
Kristin: LaToya. That was the best thing-
Jenny: Don't you dare ever apologize for singing anything at me or anyone else. Please. [LaToya laughs]
Kristin: Joanna Robinson.
Joanna: Uh-huh?
Kristin: Thank you for your sapphire dildos. Your-
Joanna: Thanks for having me. [laughter]
Jenny: Plural.
Joanna: Bye to you guys. Bye to your listeners. Bye! [Kristin laughs]
Jenny: Joanna!
Kristin: LaToya… fucking Ferguson.
LaToya: It's me!
Kristin: It's you. We have a few things to discuss with you, but I think we should start with Angel. Can you tell us, do you have any theories about what you think may or may not have happened when Angel and Buffy met in… Oxnard, California?
LaToya: I mean, I think they did a lot of talking and a lot of pauses. [Kristin laughs] Just a lot of-a lot of pauses.
Jenny: Mmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: What do you think Angel wore to the meeting?
LaToya: Well, I'm hoping he brought those leather pants, you know, from That Old Gang of Mine, honestly. [Jenny laughs]
Kristin: Casual leather pants, yeah.
Jenny: You were into those leather pants? I didn't-I wasn't clear, on your opinion.
LaToya: [laughs] Oh-[stammers] so-
Jenny: Hmm. [laughs]
LaToya: Just for everyone who wasn't clear on That Old Gang of Mine, I really loved those casual leather pants. [laughter] Especially when I rewound them, and then saw it again, and then rewound it again and then saw it again and then rewound it again.
Jenny: When I see all these people wearing leather pants all the time in the Buffyverse, all I can think of is the episode of Friends in which Ross [LaToya laughs] gets a pair of leather pants. And then they get, like, stuck halfway off and half on.
LaToya: And he needs the powder to take them off and, like-
Jenny: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Yeah.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Yeah, it's good. He makes, like, a paste with the lotion and the powder. Mmhmm.
LaToya: Yeah, yeah.
Jenny: Mmm.
LaToya: It's funny that you bring up-like, you make the first Friends reference. Because in my notes, I made a Friends reference and it was not related to leather pants, actually.
Kristin: What's your Friends reference?
LaToya: Well, it's the whole Buffy situation, the whole, see, no one told you life was gonna be this way. [Kristin laughs] Your job's a joke, you're broke, your love life's DOA.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm, it's true!
Kristin: Yes-
LaToya: It's like you're always stuck in second gear. When it hasn't been your day, your week, your month or even your year. [Kristin laughs] [sings tune to Friends theme]
NOTES: [Friends theme plays briefly]
Kristin: Do you have a feeling about POV in this episode, LaToya? Like, do you have a feeling on what we were positing earlier of like, is this reality or is it, like, really dramatized because it's Buffy's PTSD? POV? [laughs] So many-
LaToya: [laughs] PTSD POV.
Kristin: So many acronyms.
LaToya: POV really only kinda makes sense, you know, for the UC Sunnydale stuff, you know?
Kristin: Yeah.
LaToya: And the metaphysics of that, really. In theory, in time loops, you know-it's a whole metaphysics-it's like, it's the Groundhog Day situation. Which I-like, one of my favorite things in just all of TV is, like, any time a show does Groundhog Day. Legends of Tomorrow did a great Groundhog Day episode. Dark Matter does a great Groundhog Day episode. Yeah, any time a show does it, it, like-it's very hard to fail. Lost Girl did a great one. This episode of television is great because they do Groundhog Day in one act. And it's like-it's that competent. Like, I would say, anyone who wants to learn how to, like, write for TV, watch this episode of television. This episode is, like, just perfect in terms of act structure.
Kristin: Mm.
LaToya: You just do, like, this. Buffy needs to do this, so you have the construction and then you have the Magic Box, and then you have-you know. Dark night of the soul and everything. It's-yeah, it's-
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: Mmm.
LaToya: It's really good TV writing, if you will. Even if-like, I was telling you, Kristin, you know, I had some issues with, like, the general story, especially early on. But like, in terms of, like, act structure and like, here's what you do to tell a story, it's kind of perfect.
Kristin: Yeah. Well, do you wanna talk about that for a second? Like, the-'cause I wanna-I wanna talk to you-in addition to your theories on Angel and Buffy, which you've given us-about Spike, 'cause I know you have Spike feelings. But talk to us for a second about what-where your issues were, in the start of the episode.
LaToya: So I won't go too far into this, just because, like, I don't wanna get into a spoiler territory. But like, the Previously from Flooded, which is the Spike situation with Buffy, where she says, "Why are you always around when I'm miserable?" And Spike says, "'Cause that's when you're alone, I reckon." And I… I'm sorry to make Buffering listeners hate me, basically. I do not ship Spike and Buffy, and it's for reasons like this. It's-that's… abuse-speak, basically. It's very romantic and sweet to begin with, but like, when you-like, listening to that, I was just like, this is literally misery loves company, is what is happening here. Red flags, red flags, red flags. [laughs] And that's all I will say about that here, because obviously I don't want-but once we go further, obviously, maybe I'll chime in and give people new things.
Kristin: Yeah, and as you can-as you can see from the chat, you are not alienating Buffering listeners. [laughing] I think we h ave been alienating Buffering listeners. [LaToya laughs]
Jenny: I'm seeing-yeah. I'm seeing a lot of people agreeing. [sarcastically] But I thought that Riley was the worst… man we've ever seen ever in-
Kristin: You know what, Jenny, you can go right on-
Jenny: Upon the Earth?
LaToya: Well no, I have-well no, I have Riley issues too. Which, my Riley issues are that people hate Riley, but it's never for the reasons that they should hate Riley-
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
LaToya: Which is that, you know how everyone gives Xander shit for all of his toxic masculinity?
Jenny: Mmhmm.
LaToya: They never give Riley that shit, which is-that's the actual problem with Riley.
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: Okay, okay.
Jenny: Yes, yes.
Kristin: As long as you have a problem with Riley, we're good. [LaToya laughs] And I-I also-
Jenny: [laughs] As long as you've thought about the problem you have with Riley, we're good.
Kristin: Yeah, and I also-I mean, I think-we've talked about this a little bit already in Season 6 of Buffy, with Spike and Buffy and their connection right now. And that it is-it is fully rooted in trauma, right? Like, it's a thousand percent what they see-I mean, we could talk about what Spike sees in Buffy. But what Buffy is, like, seeing in Spike, the reason Buffy is connecting to Spike, in this scene and other scenes that we've seen so far this season is because nobody sees her trauma the way that Spike sees her trauma.
LaToya: Mm.
Kristin: Which, there's-there's a lot of conversation to be had there. But there is something about, like, being a person-I was just talking to somebody about this. Like, being a person who's had panic attacks and meeting someone else who's had panic attacks. That like, despite the relationship outside of that, you find solace in the being seen and the seeing. You know, that-there-that connection is there.
LaToya: Yeah. It's also-it's kinda like the Heathers, like, situation, with like, JD, where like, he sees you. But also, he's a fucking toxic mess. [laughs]
Kristin: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: To be super clear, I don't think anybody on this podcast is defending trauma-based relationships. I'm just-just-I'm just pointing that out as their connection. [laughs] Okay, so we know you don't ship Buffy and Spike. Do you ship Buffy and Angel?
LaToya: Only in the first three seasons of Buffy.
Kristin: Okay.
LaToya: It's not like I-like, I want her to end up with Angel, no, no, no, no, no.
Kristin: Okay. There's been some wild-there's been some wild internet action recently about such things. [laughs]
LaToya: I'm aware. With my good friend, Stacey Abrams. Just-can I do the plug real quick?
Kristin: Yes!
LaToya: I, along with my friend Ian Carlos Crawford, interviewed Stacey Abrams for Slayerfest '98. You can check that out on the Slayerfest '98 feed.
Kristin: Fuck yes. Fuck yes! LaToya.
LaToya: That's me!
Kristin: Is there anything else you would like to talk to us about, within the confines of this episode? Or outside, really. Anything in the universe, is there anything you would like to say?
LaToya: Within the confines of the episode. So I feel like I was just giving you-I'm sorry that I just, like, texted you negative things [laughter]-
Kristin: LaToya was like, fuck this and fuck that and fuck this! And like, I was asleep. And then, like, the last text was like, "Also I like the retail, just in case you needed a positive take." [laughter]
LaToya: Yeah, I didn't mean to be so mean. I'm like-'cause I started with like, "This is one of my favorite Season 6 episodes." [laughing] And then I got, like, really angry. [Kristin laughs] I've been having a time, you guys. If you see all the Anna Nalick songs I post on my Twitter, [laughter] you should know that I'm going through it right now. So I think that the metaphor they're doing with Buffy doesn't 100% work. Which is that, you know-
Kristin: Yeah.
LaToya: You're out of high school and everything. It's like, so what are you gonna do now? Um, I think they did it so much better with Xander for Seasons 4 and 5 and like-
Jenny: Mmhmm.
LaToya: I think Season 5 is like, the perfect Xander season. Like, Xander's at his peak in Season 5. And he's at his nadir here in Season 6, [laughing] without spoiling anything. Sorry, but that's just what it is. [Kristin laughs] And I think doing it with Buffy doesn't work because again, she was dead. Her life was over. She has no reason to think about what's gonna happen in her life, because her life was over. No more life. And then these people, her friends-who she loves and who love her-brought her back. And not only did they not plan for her finances-like, they are the reason she is broke and she owes money and all of these things.
Kristin: Yeah.
LaToya: Like, of the things you can get so angry with with these characters, especially like, the fact that they didn't do any of the paying the bills. Like, they should have honestly at least-at the very least, come up with a financial plan before they decided to bring back Buffy.
Kristin: Yes.
LaToya: Like, you couldn't have just been like, "we're not gonna pay bills" and then, like, "Buffy will solve it all." Like, why would Buffy solve it all? She's Buffy.
Kristin: It's like, at the very-even if they didn't have a plan for before she came back. They should be sitting down as a complete unit and talking about how they're gonna solve the financial issues. [laughs]
LaToya: Right?
Kristin: Not being like, "So Buffy, how are we gonna fix this?" Like, she might be the one to slay the vampires. But everybody is in bed to, like, solve this financial crisis, not just her.
LaToya: And so-that's why it's so great when Dad Giles chimes and he-like, eventually he's like, here's this check, probably for tens of thousands of dollars, to fix things. And that's great. But of course, the issue is the fact that Buffy's like, oh, you'll always be around.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Noo! And the other issue is that, I think that construction was actually the job for Buffy. [Kristin laughs] I think that's the thing that works. [laughs]
Jenny: Uh-huh!
LaToya: I think that's what she's a natural at. It's-the episode in general ignores the fact that Buffy is so very privileged in the fact that she has the ability to just audit these classes like this. She can get on, like, a construction crew because of Xander.
Kristin: Yeah.
LaToya: She can just have this job at retail, which she sticks her nose up at, because again, Buffy is an upper middle class girl. [laughs]
Kristin: Mmhmm.
LaToya: We have to acknowledge.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
LaToya: An upper middle class white girl-
Kristin: Yeah.
LaToya: Is what she is. But like, it really did not sit well with me. Like, ugh! Many times in my life, I, a college graduate with a degree, wished I could have gotten a job in retail. But I was always "overqualified." [laughs]
Kristin: Mmm.
LaToya: Is what I always got.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And the times I was very much struggling, so.
Kristin: I believe this is a great place to play the White Supremacy jingle. [laughs]
LaToya: I think that's what it is.
NOTES: [WHITE SUPREMACY jingle plays] You know what that sounds like to me? (What?) White supremacy! (Oh no) Woven in not too subtly (Ugh) White supremacy! (Uh-uh) Open your eyes and that's where you'll find it Crush that (squash that) White supremacy!
LaToya: Yes! [makes drum noise]
Kristin: Yeah, yeah, and I don't think, without spoiling-[LaToya ends the drum beat and laughs] without spoiling anything for the rest of the season, I will say I don't think this is the last time that we will interface with some of Buffy's white privilege when it comes to financial needs-
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And ways… ways to meet those.
LaToya: Now I have one thing to actually wrap things up. [laughter]
Kristin: Please, LaToya, oh my god, I love you so much. [laughs]
LaToya: So, on Angel On Top, which I now host, I do a segment where I say there's a WB episode-
Kristin: [laughs] Yes!
LaToya: That Angel should watch.
Jenny: Ye-e-es!
Kristin: Oh, shit!
LaToya: I think there is a WB episode that both Buffy and the entire Scooby gang should watch right now. [Kristin laughs]
Jenny: Hell yeah.
LaToya: Which is Episode 5, Season 2 of Everwood, Daddy's Little Girl. It is the episode dealing with Amy Abbott's depression. She is in therapy. Her therapist decides she needs to be on antidepressants. And her father, Dr. Abbott, is like, "No! She should not be." But eventually, he says-he'll allow it. And you know what? Ultimately-spoil alert.
Kristin: Mmm.
LaToya: During this antidepressant situation, you know who she meets? A cute boy, played by Pawel Wasilewski, Paul Wesley [Jenny gasps dramatically] of The Vampire Diaries. This is also the episode where Delia says "shit" on The WB. And you know what? People on Buffy should be allowed to say "shit."
Kristin: Wow.
NOTES: [LaToya slaps her notebook closed]
Jenny: What the hell.
Kristin: Wow. Wow! LaToya, like, I want you to pick up your microphone and then drop it, you know? I don't think it'll really play well in this current setting. [Jenny laughs] But that is really where-
LaToya: That was what the notebook slap was. And yes-
Kristin: [laughs] It was, it was. I felt the energy. LaToya Ferguson, I'm going to do a thing I do often on this podcast, which is to request publically in front of everyone that Jenny Owen Youngs make a jingle for you, inside of this podcast, because-
LaToya: Yes!
Kristin: All I have is, like, a Detective Angel jingle-like, I don't have a LaToya Ferguson jingle. And I need one, I want one-
Jenny: It's time.
Kristin: It's time. Thank you. Thank you very much.
Jenny: It's time.
Kristin: We'll get you that jingle, because you need to come back a lot. You have a lot of really fucking great shit to say. And you also-
Jenny: We need you.
Kristin: You also look great in a hardhat. I kind of hope that any time you come on this podcast, you put that hardhat back on. [laughter]
Jenny: Kristin is not wrong.
LaToya: I might wear the hardhat to record the Carpe Noctem episode with Morgan. [laughs]
Kristin: Oh my god, yeah, you're going right from here to record Carpe Noctem. It's really like we're doing this in real life. [laughing] Like, it's like, you're just going from one to the other. So-
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: Thank you, LaToya, we love you. You are the fucking best. And-
LaToya: Hey.
Kristin: I hope you have a great recording of Carpe Noctem.
LaToya: I hope I do too. I-I'm upset I will not be here for the rest of the show, because I have to prepare for the Carpe Noctem recording because again-
Kristin: It will be here for you. It will always be here for you.
LaToya: I did not have power for most of the day. [laughter]
Jenny: Noo!
Kristin: Alright. Enjoy your tequila.
Jenny: Please give our respectful regards to Morgan Lutich.
Kristin: Yes, please do. [laughs]
LaToya: Love you guys!
Kristin: Love you too.
Jenny: Love you, LaToya!
LaToya: Love you, Scoobies, bye!
Kristin: Bye!
Jenny: Farewell!
Kristin: LaToya fucking Ferguson, you know what I mean?
Jenny: [exhales] You know what I mean? The best!
Kristin: How can you even keep talking? Like, I just-it's just-there's a lot.
Jenny: I-yeah.
Kristin: Well, Jenny. Here we are, just you and me.
Jenny: How did we ever get so lucky? Okay.
Kristin: One in a hardhat, one… not in a hardhat.
Jenny: Okay. Okay. Okay.
Kristin: Yes. Everybody in the chat is just "LaToya, LaToya, LaToya. Wow, LaToya rules."
Jenny: We agree.
Kristin: We agree very, very, very much.
Jenny: All of us are the chat. Um…
Kristin: Um, kitten poker. [laughs]
Jenny: We get some kitten poker. We do. One of these demons looks a lot like Rudy Giuliani.
Kristin: Noo! Take it back.
Jenny: I'm sor-I-I don't make the rules-
Kristin: I know-I know which-
Jenny: Of my eyes.
Kristin: I know which one you mean, but it's upsetting. I don't want the-like, on the Bingo card that everybody's playing with. Like, I don't-Rudy Giuliani is not on it and I wish that he was not a thing that you could tick off on your Bingo card. You know what I mean?
Jenny: Uh, happy to meet-happy to meet Clem.
Kristin: [gasps] Clem. Clem.
Jenny: What a delight.
Kristin: Do you know think-I have a question. Do you think Clem was cheating with the ace? Or do you think he literally was, like, I didn't know that was there. 'Cause I feel like the latter is true, for Clem.
Jenny: Is it a spoiler to say, based on what, you know-what we learn about Clem-
Kristin: No.
Jenny: That like, I feel like it's just not style to cheat.
Kristin: No, I think that's a light-I think that's what we would call a light spoiler, allowed here in the podcast and elsewhere. Uh, yeah, I don't think-I don't think Clem was cheating. I fucking love him. I have to pick a bone, and not Jonathan's magic one, with Buffy's release of the kittens? I don't-I feel like this is an ineffective-
Jenny: That's-take them outside! Actually, take them to a shelter, ma'am.
Kristin: Take-carry the kittens away from the demons. Don't just be like, run free!
Jenny: They're just gonna scoop them back up into the-
Kristin: They're kittens! [sighs] Do you remember how Alf-
Jenny: They do-[crosstalk]
Kristin: Ate cats?
Jenny: The kittens are delicious-oh, right, Alf eats cats, huh?
Kristin: Yeah. I was kind of hoping that, like, Alf was also at the poker table. Would be a good universe blend. [laughs] Anyway. [both laugh] I would like to also say that I am very upset with the way that Spike behaves in this whole scene. Like, I know we've talked about Spike and problematic shit. But like, just in a moment-to-moment, beat-by-beat thing, in the bar-in the demon bar?
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: They get drunk, they go to the demon bar, Buffy's drinking out of a bottle. When they're there, Spike does this thing that I feel like I recognize, of like, you really desire somebody. You want to be their partner. And so you speak about them like they are your partner. It's-
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: I don't like it. It makes me feel very uncomfortable. I think it's a really shit move and it's obviously-
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: Buffy's a little too drunk to even, like, pick up on it. But she's not into it. I'm not into it.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Thank you for coming to this Ted talk.
Jenny: Any time.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Any time. You know… what I'm into?
Kristin: What are you into, Jenny?
Jenny: What I am into is-[both laugh] just this, like, beautiful refrain of blegh! [Kristin laughs] That they somehow manage to, like, do exactly the right amount of times.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: They, like, nailed it. It's always the right amount of-the right amount of time passes between each one. So that it's always satisfying, whenever it happens, and funny.
Kristin: Jane Espenson.
Jenny: Love that.
Kristin: Nick Marck. [laughs]
Jenny: Love that. Dude! What the actual fuck is with Buffy's shirt? She has a shirt that has, like, the-like, something that looks like a-a cameo, like, cutout silhouette profile of somebody's head-
Kristin: [simultaneously] Oh yeah, it's like her skin!
Jenny: But it's like, on her abdomen? [laughing] It's so fucking weird!
Kristin: It's very weird. It's very weird.
Jenny: [singsong] So fucking weird!
Kristin: So they play kitten poker. Spike behaves inappropriately, in my opinion.
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: And they don't really get any information from these fucking demons. We go to the van, we hear the Bond argument, which we've heard a lot about.
Jenny: Yep, yep, yep.
Kristin: I would like to say that Warren says I guess what we would refer to as the R-word here, in this space. And it is something that I wanna point out as, like, really fucked up. And also, it is not the last time we will hear ableist in this season. It's not the first time we've heard it in the show, but-
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: I do feel like this-Season 6 specifically really-there's a lot of moments of ableist language that we will be calling out. So fuck you, Warren. Fuck you, Warren, for literally all the reasons. We will just add this to our spread. And then, Buffy comes out of the bar and she sees the van. And she's like, "yo Spike, uh, I recognize that van." [laughing] She-
Jenny: She's not too drunk to recognize the van!
Kristin: "We have the motorcycle, but if you really want the van."
Jenny: She is strolling up on-she's taking her time, walking up on that van! Tip… toe… tip… toe. [Kristin laughs] They happen to look up from their Bond fight, just in time to see that she's very close. And poof! An enormous-actually, not entirely dissimilar from Tim Curry's portrayal of, like, the dar-the lord of darkness or whatever in Legend.
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: This huge, red, be-winged demon thing [Kristin laughs] comes out and is all like, "Bwahh!" Buffy is drunk, so she's not her best at fighting. The demon is actually Jonathan, so he's not his best at fighting. The van drives off. And then-
Kristin: Wait. Two-I have two things-
Jenny: Jonathan tosses a smoke bomb-what?
Kristin: I have two things to comment on in what you just said. One, for the avid listener, I would love a list of all the things Jenny has "be'd." Be-winged, be-you know what I mean? Like, there's-bespectacled is-
Jenny: Be-winged, be-wigged and bewildered.
Kristin: Right. I just-
Jenny: The classic episode.
Kristin: There's been a lot of be's in the Jenny Owen Youngs-
Jenny: Be-hatted.
Kristin: Vernacular. Be-hatted definitely was one of them. So I would love a list, for anyone who feels like making one. And also. When demon Jonathan throws his, like, smoke bomb [laughing] and he's like-what does he say? "I call on the misty portal, where I will go to my demon dimension to lay my head and gently die." Then the, like, smoke rises.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: If you watch closely, you will see that James Marsters is hysterically laughing [Jenny laughs] for one beat before he then, like, gets into character. And it somehow is in the show.
Jenny: Oh, fuck.
Kristin: And it's-I assume they've shot the scene separately. Maybe they were laughing about something else. But it just looks like he is hysterical at this ridiculous demon that Jonathan is playing. It's great.
Jenny: Great. Great.
Kristin: Anyway. Uh… do you feel-do you feel sexy at all, Jenny? Do you wanna…
Jenny: When do I not?
Kristin: Just wondering if you're…
Jenny: I mean, it is my birthday. [Kristin laughs] [singing] Let me tell you a little story about the Sexual Tension Awards!
NOTES: [SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays] Sexual tension award!
Jenny: Well! It's time, once again, for that most heated and moist of competitions. Neck and neck, these competitors, each one as worthy as the next, shall go head to head and only one thing can reveal to all of us who most deserving of this episode's Sexual Tension Award trophy! And that thing is democracy. Our beautiful listenership, we call upon you now to cast your vote. On Twitter, @BufferingCast, for one of the following noms, in each of the four upcoming slots. Here we go!
Kristin: As the listeners have noted in the chat, we are allowing Jenny to get away with this kind of language-moist, slot and nom-
Jenny: [laughs] [singsong] Birthday Jenny! Birthday Jenny!
Kristin: For her birthday. [laughs]
Jenny: Okay! [makes long chainsaw noise] In slot-
Kristin: I hope "Jenny making a chainsaw noise" was on Bingo. [both laugh]
Jenny: On slot number one-
Kristin: Okay, I can do that. The listeners are asking for a live poll.
Jenny: Oh, a live poll? In slot number one, yes, we have Willow and her favorite part of the chicken, breasts!
Kristin: [laughs] I'm-listen, I can only do one of two things. Make this poll or react, so Jenny, you're on your own. [both laugh]
Jenny: In slot number two, you maniacal shippers, you will not be tamed and thus, we have no choice but to give you Spike and Buffy as an option. In this slot. Two noms in one slot. [laughs] Okay.
Kristin: Fuck you. [laughs]
Jenny: In… slot number three! [both laugh] Well! It was always just a matter of time, it's Andrew and Scully, Special Agent Dana Scully. If you know what I mean. And in the fourth slot, we have one final nom for you, and that is… [laughing] Jonathan [Kristin laughs] [singsong] and his magic bone! Hallelujah! [normal voice] Okay!
Kristin: Wow!
Jenny: Those are your noms-
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: In each of their slots. Please… go ahead. [Kristin laughs] Or scoot on over to Twitter-
Kristin: Oh my god.
Jenny: And cast your vote, dear listeners at home. But Kristin, you'll-you also made a poll live in the chat-
Kristin: I did, I did.
Jenny: For this taping.
Kristin: Jonathan and his magic bone are doing great. Great, great, great. [Jenny laughs] If you'd like to vote-if you were not here for the live taping and you'd like to vote on Twitter, you can vote @BufferingCast. The poll will be up for a week, but I will tell you what, [laughing] Jonathan and his magic bone-
Jenny: [laughs] Are doing great.
Kristin: Are soaring ahead! Soaring ahead.
Jenny: Right, strong out of the gate. Alright.
Kristin: And that has been… your… Sexual Tension Awards. Thank you, Jenny, for all of the slots and noms in this moist, moist space.
Jenny: Unlimited slots and noms in this moist cavern of lust and, uh, excitement.
NOTES: [SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays] Sexual tension award!
Kristin: Whew!
Jenny: Oh my god, honorable mention: sapphire dildo and all of us. Incredible call, Lee.
Kristin: Also-also, I will say-I will say that somebody in the feed said Anya and herself naked. Which is a really, really-
Jenny: Oh my god, yes!
Kristin: Great, great nom. It's a great nom. We're sorry that we-
Jenny: Well. We failed.
Kristin: Didn't slot it. That's for your birthday.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Bad Jenny. Bad Jenny.
Kristin: Okay, so.
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: "Let the spell be ended," says Jonathan. Warren, as I've said many times now, gently wraps Jonathan in a blanket when he gets into the van, which gives me [laughs] such a thrill.
Jenny: I'm so happy you're happy.
Kristin: I'm happy. And, you know, they-the Trio has done a couple things. They've actually gotten some data. They've done more than they should have ever been able to do, in our collective opinion, I believe.
Jenny: It's true. A miracle.
Kristin: And in addition to getting data on the Slayer, they have also discovered-actually, I'm gonna leave this for you, 1080P PhD, Jenny Owen Youngs. [laughs] What did they find?
Jenny: [singing] Free cable porn! [Kristin laughs] [makes drum beat] Eh?
Kristin: Do you remember-do you remember being a kid and, like-like, porn was on, I think, PayPerView when we were kids.
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: And you could, like, click-
Jenny: It was fuzzy, it was hard to see.
Kristin: Right, you could, like, click the channel to get to PayPerView and if you didn't pay for it, you couldn't see it clearly. [laughing] But you could still, like, kinda hear it and kinda see it? And that was definitely like a 1980s and 90s experience that-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: I think of when I think of free cable porn.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Okay.
Jenny: Not necessary anymore. Well.
Kristin: Well, it's only been two hours and fifteen minutes of us talking. So, you know. [laughs]
Jenny: Hot.
Kristin: We're at the last scene. The last scene, which really connects to Flooded, I think. And I have some issues with it. I think we kind of spelled some of them out in the last episode. But Giles is very-it's very sweet. Buffy's home, she's sick, she's drank too much. She says, really relatably, she thinks she may have turned inside out at one point.
Jenny: Mmhmm. Mmhmm, mmhmm!
Kristin: And you know, Giles is there. He has water for her and he's very, very sweet. And she's talking about how, like, the phone company doesn't have this kind of sympathy for her. And Giles gives Buffy a check. Which is wonderful-
Jenny: This called to mind, uh, memories of the classic Rhianna smash-ola, "Brit Better Have My Money."
Kristin: A dad joke for Dad. A dad joke-a dad joke from the dad of the pod to the dad of the television show. Very nice.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: Giles should give Buffy money, but he should have given Buffy money sooner. And he should not act as though this is a big deal. He has a lot of money, it would-
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Be assumed. And also, he is literally the only caretaker that Buffy has left. And I will go further in this argument and say, why does he look at her like he won't be there for her forever? He's her fucking Watcher! She's still a fucking Slayer! What is happening?
Jenny: Guess we'll just have to keep watching the series and find out. But in the meantime-
Kristin: I'm so mad.
Jenny: But in the meantime, Buffy's gonna go show this check to Dawn. Further proof that our casting of Gaby Dunn [Kristin laughs] was a bullseye.
Kristin: Yeah. There's a cute quip in here, I will say, where Gi-where Buffy is like, you know, "I… it's a little bit like having Mom back." And Giles is like, "so…"
NOTES: [laughs]
Jenny: "So I'm your mom?"
Kristin: "In this scenario, I'm your mother?" And you know, could you maybe have a-what does he call it? A rakish uncle?
Jenny: Rakish uncle, yeah.
Kristin: A rakish uncle. Uh-
Jenny: [singing] "Hot uncle!"
Kristin: So that's fun-
Jenny: It's harder to rhyme.
Kristin: But the rest of this scene is not fun. We love Giles here, we are a Giles-positive space. But I think Giles is-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Giles is showing his-and we talked about this in Flooded. But, like, Giles is showing his relationship to wealth. And his ignorance at what-like, how wealth sets him apart from this current set of circumstances. He's really, really, like, "Buffy needs to really figure her stuff out. She needs to have responsibility. She needs to, like, get a job and what have you." And… we're not here for it. Giles-thank you, Kate. Kate, very, very aptly saying, "Giles does not get his jingle for this."
Jenny: [laughs] Well!
Kristin: That's it. This is the point in the live taping where I would throw my notes into the audience like a rock star-
Jenny: [simultaneously] There she goes again.
Kristin: And instead I just flop them on the floor. [laughs]
Jenny: [sighs] Well.
Kristin: Well. Before we get into the actual denouement of-
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: The podcast here. Please, if you have a recording device of any kind, a phone, anything like that, at home, get it ready. Because what we love to do in our live tapings is have you all record your "awoos" with us-
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: So that we can put them in the podcast-
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: In this, the year 2020. [laughs]
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: Where the landscape has changed. And while you get that ready, we can-you know, in case you were wondering who we were this whole time.
Jenny: Oh my god. Thank god, finally some clarity! Well! [Kristin laughs] I'm Jenny Owen Youngs. Waahh! And when I'm not making this podcast, gosh, I'm doing some other stuff. I make another podcast about another petite, blond protagonist called Veronica Mars Investigations. You can find that in all of the pod places. I also make a whole bunch of music. I've been releasing a bunch of jams this year. You can find them all by visiting jennyowenyoungs.com or searching my entire name [Kristin] on Spotify or wherever you stream music. [takes deep breath] And you can always give me a shout on Twitter, @JennyOwenYoungs, yeah!
Kristin: Yeah. And if you're watching this live taping right now, you can give Jenny a shout on Twitter and say, happy fucking birthday, Jenny.
Jenny: You could do that and I would be so thankful!
Kristin: So, so glad-
Jenny: But also, no stress, if you're busy.
Kristin: So glad to welcome you into this beautiful year of 39, along with me, your other host, Kristin Noeline. You can spell that with an N, an O, an E, an L, an I, an N and another E. It's Kristin with an I, just in case you missed that beginning part.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: And you can learn about the work that I do with the LGBTQ community by going to my website, kristinnoeline.com. You could also give me a shout on Twitter or on Instagram, @KristinNoeline. You can say, "what does it feel like, Kristin-what does it feel like to be the same precise age as Jenny Owen Youngs?" And I will tell you…
Jenny: [high-pitched] Mm… [laughs]
Kristin: It feels fantastic. But you better ask me within the next 25 days. [laughs]
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: And no, Aleah asked a great question in the chat. Does it matter which order we put the letters in? It doesn't.
Jenny: Not at all.
Kristin: I'm very powerful and no matter what order you put them in, you will find me.
Jenny: Wow. All roads lead to Kristin.
Kristin: They do. Jenny, who are we?
Jenny: Collectively. Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram, @BufferingCast. Or drop us an email at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com. Or leave us a voicemail at 216-30-BUFFY.
Kristin: Yes, you can do all of those things. You can support our work, which is ever-expanding, on our Patreon. You can also-you saw LaToya Ferguson earlier, who's the host of Angel On Top. You can support Angel On Top's Patreon. Find all of that at bufferingthevampireslayer.com. The Angel On Top Patreon is just angelontop.com. It brings you right there, it's super easy to do. You can get all kinds of perks. I will say also, we have… some really good merchandise, in our store. You can find that by clicking Store on bufferingthevampireslayer.com. And if you want a really wonderful place to put your dollars and your cents, we are raising money for Georgia in a whole lotta ways. You heard some of them up at the top of this episode. And you can find all that information at bufferingthevampireslayer.com/ForGeorgia.
Jenny: Everybody-[takes deep breath] get ready! Open up your voice memo app! And hit record, okay?! [Kristin chuckles] 'Cause we're about to do it! Oh my god! [Kristin laughs] I'm about to say… till next time…
A bunch of recordings: Awwwoooooooo!
Kristin: Happy birthday, Jenny! ["Life Serial" plays off the album Songs from Season 6 by Buffering the Vampire Slayer] While I was buried way deep down Six feet underneath the ground Somehow I spent all the money that there was Five months later I awoke Freshly un-dead, freshly broke I wish money didn't matter but it does I been working the late shift for a while I been working the late shift with a smile I work the night away but I don't get paid For my time Four people livin in my house But three of them aint helping out Turns out bills aren't magic and won't pay themselves I make swamp monsters go ker-plat In two pigtails and one hard hat But fighting demons doesn't put food on the shelves I been working the late shift for a while I been working the late shift with a smile I work the night away but I don't get paid For my time When life tells me to ante up I'll try some whiskey in my cup Never thought that I'd end up Backroom kitten-poker drunk *** kitten choir break *** I been working the late shift for a while I been working the late shift with a smile I worked my nights away but I don't get paid For my time
Kristin: I wanna know about the dildo-
Joanna: Oh.
Kristin: I know that that's, like, becoming a catchphrase on this podcast at this point. But like, what-
Joanna: It's only 36.99. It is-
Jenny: Only?
LaToya: Yeah, it's-
Kristin: Only how much?
Joanna: 36.99.
LaToya: It's cheap, actually.
Joanna: Right? That seems…
Kristin: So the number 69 is in there for you, Jenny.
Jenny: [laughs, simultaneously] Surprisingly affordable.
Joanna: 36.99. It is a-it is a-
LaToya: It's cheap for what it is. [laughs]
Joanna: Seven-inch sapphire spiral glass dildo.
Jenny: Help-
Joanna: Here, hold on. Would you like to see it in someone's hand? Will that help you, like- [Kristin, Jenny and LaToya burst out laughing]
Joanna: Feel like you [crosstalk] [laughs]
Jenny: [laughing] Oh my god!
Kristin: Joanna, no! Make it stop! Make it stop!
Jenny: Dude!
Joanna: I have one more.
Kristin: Ohh, god! Why-the hand is so-okay. [laughter] Look at that French manicure-
Joanna: Uh-huh.
Kristin: Holding that sapphire dildo. [Jenny laughs] [CHIME]