Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 6.22: Grave
NOTES: [CHIME]
Jenny: Hey, everybody!
Kristin: Oh, hello! Here we are. The season finale of Season…
Jenny: No big deal!
Kristin: Six. No big deal. We'd like to start off today's episode by acknowledging and taking accountability for a recent harmful oversight here in the pod space. In our episode for Normal Again that aired just a few weeks ago, we had a brief conversation around the indigenous Australian instrument that Andrew was playing. We referred to the instrument as a didgeridoo, but that was wrong. It is a yidaki.
Jenny: I also talked about playing this instrument in college. Had we done a little more research, we'd have both known that the name "didgeridoo" was given to the instrument by white colonizers and also, that it's an incredibly sacred instrument that is only played by men, except in very rare circumstances.
Kristin: We are both so sorry to everyone, but especially to our indigenous listeners, for discussing the instrument so casually. We should have done further research into its origins so that we could have responsibly shared that information with you all. We have a pretty large platform here, and so when we speak incorrectly and irresponsibly, it has a very harmful impact. It further uplifts the settler-colonial narrative of ownership of indigenous cultures.
Jenny: We've removed that part of our conversation from Normal Again, and we also have added a few very important resources to our antiracist library for those who would like to learn more about the yidaki, its history, and the aboriginal people to whom its legacy and creation belongs.
Kristin: Continuing to engage in this kind of accountability is so important to both of us, and we hope to continue learning, unlearning, and showing up to our conversations here in informed and responsible ways. A couple of other things that we'd like to mention before we roll into the episode with you. One, hey! It's the last episode of the season. And so, Jenny and I are gonna take a short break. We will be back at the beginning of November with the final season! Season 7.
Jenny: Ahhhhhhh!
Kristin: What the hell? In that break-during that break-you know us by now. You know that we say we're gonna take breaks but we don't actually take breaks. We just do other things that are not the podcast. And so we're gonna be doing a few things. [Jenny laughs] One, today is the last day-if you are a patron at the $5 level or higher, today is the last day to submit. Go on over to the mailbag Patreon post, go into the form, send us your thoughts, your questions, all the things you want us to read in that mailbag. That'll be going up for patrons next Wednesday. And on October 9th-Saturday, October 9th-Jenny and I are gonna be hanging out with patrons at the $10 level and higher. We're gonna be carving some pumpkins. We're gonna be singing some songs. We'll probably drink, like, hot cocoa or hot toddies or hot something. You know, because we like to roll into the season cozily, goddamnit.
Jenny: Mmhmm. Mmhmm. Mmhmm!
Kristin: [laughs] Our production calendar for November will be up in the next couple of weeks, but know that we won't be gone for too long. We'll just be gone for about six weeks, and we'll see you very soon. While we're gone, there will be episodes coming into the feed. Those will be the Unbury Your Gays episode and the special episode that we did with Jess Clark on Seeing Red. Both of those will air in the main feed while we're, quote, off.
Jenny: Also, a timely reminder. The Bored Meow tee is only up through the end of October, so if you want this beautiful shirt, designed by Diana Kresge, to commemorate your feelings about Dark Willow, cats, or any combination thereof, now you know what your deadline is. Also, the Songs from Season 6 CDs are now up-
Kristin: [makes siren noise]
Jenny: For preorder, baby. That's right. You can find them in our shop. They're gonna be pumpkin orange. 'Tis the season.
Kristin: They are! They're orange and black, for festive times.
Jenny: Yes, and as we enter this blessed autumnal season, at least here in our part of the world, sniffing our cinnamon-scented pinecones and sipping our pumpkin lattes, enjoying all the spices the season has to offer. [Kristin laughs] Let me present to you one other spice, a rarer spice, if you will. It's the results of the penultimate Season 6 Sexual Tension Awards.
Kristin: Lay it on me.
Jenny: Are you ready, Kristin?
Kristin: That's what she said.
Jenny: [exaggerated laughter] That's what she said! [Kristin laughs] Well, in fourth place, of course. 'Cause nobody wants it. With 3% of the vote, it's Jonathan and Andrew, checking each other's holes.
Kristin: Boohoo! [laughs]
Jenny: In…an alarming result that I can't make heads or tails of, in third place with 5% of the vote, it's Spike and Tanoai Reed, AKA the Rock's cousin and stunt double, [Kristin laughs] AKA the human action figure. All I can say to this disappointingresult is: more for me.
Kristin: Fair.
Jenny: In second place-in second place, with 14% of the vote, power on one side, power on the other side, it's a very balanced teeter-totter. It's Buffy and Dark Willow! Shockingly low for this pairing. But you know why it is, Kristin. You know what's going on! A man has come back from across the sea! In a long black coat with LASIK surgery. [Kristin laughs] And a banging skin routine.
Kristin: [pleased] Ugh. Ugh!
Jenny: [sim] Here to punish the wicked-
Kristin: [pleased] Ugh!
Jenny: It's Giles and all of us, in first place with a staggering 78% of the vote!
Kristin: Yes! You all know what's good. You all know what is good.
Jenny: Congratulations to Giles and all of us. God bless us, everyone.
Kristin: Seriously! If you don't follow us on Twitter, you should go over and check out a post we put up within the last week. Somebody shared with us Giles-well. Tony Head-talking about all of his romantic and bedroom-related feelings. You should…
Jenny: Good gravy. It'll make you blush.
Kristin: It'll make you blush. Alright! I've got an email for us, before we kick off into the finale. Are you ready, Jenny?
Jenny: So ready.
Kristin: Because our listeners are experts in literally anything that we ever ask about.
Jenny: [laughs] True!
Kristin: Of course, we have some wonderful truck drivers, traversing the globe, listening to our podcast who answered our question. This email is from Liv, who is probably listening to their own email read back to them while they drive their truck. Liv said-
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: "It's finally my time to shine as the resident truck driver. My first thought rewatching this scene was, how exactly is Willow driving this truck? Assuming, since it's a Peterbilt, that the truck is a manual, is Willow shifting gears? Controlling the clutch? Is the reason she's draining because of the nuances of driving stick? [Jenny gasps] Or is she floating gears? Is this a loose callback to Faith's line about Willow not driving stick anymore? [both laugh] Anyway, back to the question. No, this driver was doing some seriously dramatic steering, which is what led to the truck jack-knifing at the end. Honestly, Willow was keeping the truck in a straight path. All he had to do was feather the brakes to stop. But proper driving makes for way less entertaining television. Anyway, best of luck as you close out the season and thanks for keeping me awake during those long night drives."
Jenny: Wow. Thank you so much, Liv. We're sending you so many good vibes and also, I hope your truck is never, ever commandeered [Kristin laughs] by a very angry vengeful witch. And I hope you never have to do that thing where you grab the steering wheel really tight, and look really concerned, and then ultimately just, like, let the steering wheel go and throw your hands up! Giving up! Giving over control to whoever is controlling your truck now! Hope that never happens to you, buddy.
Kristin: I hope the same. And I hope, for everyone's sake, that we can get into the episode now.
Jenny: Let's do it!
NOTES: [Buffering theme plays]
Jenny: Oh! Hello. A-a-a-and welcome! To Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast where we are watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, one by one, spoiler free, in tandem with those low-down, no-good, dirty [bleeped out], Angel On Top. Ughhh, they really grind my gears! [Kristin laughs] I'm Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: And I am Kristin Russo. Cackling right at the top. This week, we are talking about the season finale of Season motherfuckin' 6! It is called Grave and we're coming out the other side of this season. Woo! Stay tuned-
Jenny: They said it couldn't be done!
Kristin: [laughs] But we have done it! Stay tuned at the end of this podcast every other week-although. Mmm. For the season finale, you got two in a row, one week to the next. How are you doing, Jenny Owen Youngs, writing two songs in two weeks?
Jenny: Uh. Badda-bing.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Badda-boom.
Kristin: Mmhmm, I've heard of it.
Jenny: Actually.
Kristin: So yeah. Stay tuned at the end of the podcast for an original song written by Jenny. It's gonna recap the Buffy episode that we are discussing.
Jenny: Grave was written by David Fury and directed by James A. Contner. And originally aired on May 21st, 2002, immediately following Two to Go.
Kristin: Mmhmm. Do you know, Jenny Owen Youngs, that this is the only season finale of all seven seasons of Buffy the Vampire Slayer that is not written by Joss Whedon.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: This cheese stands alone. And hey-
Jenny: [laughs] One lonely cheese.
Kristin: According to TV Guide-love-TV Guide, just trying to keep it close to the chest. TV Guide says this is the one where, "in the conclusion of the sixth season finale, a magical friend helps the Scooby gang try to stop [Jenny laughs] a sorceress! But the witch still has a few tricks-"
Jenny: A sorceress.
Kristin: "Up her sleeve, and an unwilling-"
Jenny: A sorceress.
Kristin: "Assistant." [laughs]
Jenny: A sorceress.
Kristin: A sorceress! Wait. Also, last sentence from TV Guide, "Also, Spike's African sojourn comes to a climax." [Jenny snorts] Whew! Sir. Who are you? Who are you? Who wrote this?
Jenny: [sim] Okay. Wait. So who is-who is Willow's unwilling assistant? Is it Anya, for getting mind controlled? [Kristin laughs] Is it Giles for giving her a bunch of power?
Kristin: [sim] I mean, literally everyone who assists Willow in this is unwilling.
Jenny: We are all of us-
Kristin: [laughing] We are all unwilling.
Jenny: [sim] Willow's unwilling assistants. Cool! Here we go.
Kristin: I have a question. I have a question right at the top about the Previously Ons, because we talked-
Jenny: Yes?
Kristin: In Two to Go, obviously, about how we got this, like, season recap of everything we never wanted to see again. But on Hulu, which is where I watch and where you watch, Jenny, there's a Previously On for Grave. And so-this is really a-you know, this is a question for pod nemesis, LaToya Ferguson, 'cause I'm sure she would know.
Jenny: [grumbles]
Kristin: [laughs] But how did this Previously On come to be? Is it because, like, internationally, they didn't air together maybe? Or is it because on Hulu, they're separate, and so they made one-like, when did this Previously On get made? A question I pose to the universe.
Jenny: AKA LaToya.
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah. So LaToya, if you're-
Jenny: Our universe.
Kristin: If we're still on speaking terms, let us know.
Jenny: Well! [sighs]
Kristin: Remember how Giles threw open the fucking door, wearing nary one spectacle on his eyeballs?
Jenny: Mmm!
Kristin: Looking like the hottest man I have ever, ever put my eyes upon?
Jenny: [sim] Yeah. Yeah, he went coat shopping with Angel. [Kristin laughs] And picked up a duster of his own, but it's woolen because he lives in England now.
Kristin: [sim] Oh! Ugh! I'm sorry. Giles has never been hotter than this moment.
Jenny: Yeah, Giles is very hot.
Kristin: Good thing we have a jingle for that.
NOTES: [MAD DAD jingle plays] Giles! Dad's mad! The witches told him you did real bad So pissed that he took off his glasses You better watch what you say! Dad is mad!
Jenny: You know what I think it is? I think Tony Head got to go fucking home for a minute. [Kristin laughs] See his loved ones. Sleep on a regular-like, reassume a human circadian rhythm.
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: He looks well rested.
Kristin: [pleased] Ugh!
Jenny: He looks, like, fit. Like, he looks hot-he looks like he's just feeling a lot better than I imagine you feel after filming-
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: This television show-
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: On this television show's schedule for six years. [laughs]
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah. Good job taking a nap, Dad. Good job. It-so we-you know, if you watched this in real time, you sort of saw him walk in. And then you continued on into this scene that we enter in for Grave. Let's walk into this scene, hearing what Willow has to say-what Dark Willow has to say about the arrival, the return, of the prodigal Giles.
NOTES: [Clip from episode plays]
Dark Willow: Huh-oh! Daddy's home. I'm in wicked trouble now.
Giles: You have no idea.
Jenny: Somewhere! Somewhere, Faith Lehane's ears just pricked up. She caught a scent in the wind of someone saying "wicked" in Sunnydale!
Kristin: [laughs] Yo, Faith would be having the time-
Jenny: [sim] She's sitting, probably, in a-
Kristin: Faith would be, like, eating a giant bucket of popcorn, watching this shit go down. [laughing] Faith would be so fucking into this, in a finale. So into it.
Jenny: Yeah. She's, like, you know, sitting alone in her Spartan [pronounced "spa-tin"] cell somewhere. That's all I got. I just wanted to say "spa-tin."
Kristin: [laughs] [sim] God. Give her the VHS tape. Somebody mail Faith Lehane the VHS tape recording you have of the Season 6 finale, because…
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Whew! She would be like, "Buffy's looking good-my girlfriend-"
Jenny: [sim] Yeah, she's watching the Season 6 finale.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Then she's watching The Departed [pronounced "dep-ah-ted"]. [Kristin laughs] Then she's watching a movie I just learned about while visiting Fenway Park called The Town. Which is apparently some kind of, like, heist movie where some guys try to steal the fortune in the safe at Fenway. [both laugh] Because Ben Affleck decided he wanted to write, direct and star in a movie that would allow him to just spend a lot of time at Fenway.
Kristin: Did anyone know that Ben Affleck and Matt Damon are from Boston? Did anyone know that?
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah. [Kristin laughs] It's about time that we uncover this truth long obscured by the sands and dusts and winds of time.
Kristin: [laughs] Ahh.
Jenny: Bostonian, they are!
Kristin: God. So, yeah. Giles is like, "I'm not finished yet," and Willow's like, "Neither am I." And then Giles says, "Stay down."
Jenny: Ahhhh!
Kristin: Hot, hot, hot, hot, hot. You can tell me to stay down any time, Giles. I'm sorry, gotta go, gotta go!
Jenny: Ah. [clears throat]
Kristin: "I can kill a couple of geeks all by myself," says Willow. [clears throat] And then she starts ragging on Giles. [laughs] Which, I mean, you know. It's a good-it's a good-she drags on him pretty good, right? "You can watch. Isn't that what Watchers do?"
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: "Butting in on things that don't concern you?" [laughs]
Jenny: Never have I been so bummed as having to endure yet another line reading of someone saying, "amateur" [pronounced "am-a-tyoor"]-
Kristin: [laughing] I know, I know-
Jenny: In Sunnydale, California. [both laugh]
Kristin: Before she del-before her voice drops three octaves, which we're gonna listen to together as a family. [both laugh] But before that happens. There's just a couple of, like, moments in this episode where, even before she sucks the essence of magic out of Giles' beating heart, there's this glimmer of, like, something that is not only evil in Dark Willow. And this is, like, one of those moments, because Giles says, "You'll wind up dead." And she doesn't have a retort. Like, she just sort of, like-[laughs] she takes a minute, has a beat. So just pointing that out. But then, yeah, let's hear her say "amateur." And-[laughs] hear what that dark, vengeance-y magic does to the vocal chords of one Willow Rosenberg.
NOTES: [Clip from episode plays]
Dark Willow: You called me a rank, arrogant amateur. Well, buckle up, Rupert. [deeper voice] 'Cause I've turned pro.
Jenny: Well! This is just simply not what I want out of life. There's a few instances of this for-dramatic-purpose voice dropping. And I don't know about it. [laughs]
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah, I mean, you know, there's a-Dark Willow is really campy. So I allow it, I'll allow it. I think it's-you know, it's like, fun in the campy way. Like, later, when she's like, "Fly, my pretty!" Like-[laughs] you know, it's kind of-it's kind of ridiculous. [Jenny laughs] But it's like, kinda her deal, so. I'm good with it. I think-
Jenny: Alright. Alright.
Kristin: Important to note, of course, because when we ended Two to Go, we saw Giles enter. But we did not realize until this scene that Giles is wielding some serious fucking power. Anya is like, "How did he-what? What just happened? [laughs] Wasn't this man supposed to be a Watcher and he just, like, knocked this powerful witch down?" He has-I mean, in this episode, Giles is also a witch. Motherfuckers!
Jenny: Mmm. Mmhmm.
Kristin: He uses his witchcraft to create what I refer in my notes as a stasis blob. Do you think that's the technical term?
Jenny: Wow, I called it a little nap donut.
Kristin: [laughing] Awww! That's cute!
Jenny: I'm like, where can I get a little nap donut? [Kristin laughs] I would like to float and sleep.
Kristin: Oh, you could play L.A. Exes' Temporary Goodbye over the image of you-
Jenny: [laughing] Yes, exactly.
Kristin: [sim] Inside of your nap donut.
Jenny: Thank you.
Kristin: This, of course-this nap donut-is how Giles gets Willow to, like, sit in time out for a second. [laughs]
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: He sort of wraps her in this thing. And she's, like, awake and can hear, but can't use her magic. It's very temporary. Speaking of temporary goodbyes. And-but we get-this little pause gives us a very sweet moment.
Jenny: Giles notices that Buffy cut her hair. And they hug.
Kristin: And then! Anya! Anya, like the little sister, is like, "My hair's different. Dad. Dad?" [both laugh]
Jenny: She would also like a hug!
Kristin: Ohh. And then Giles, like, holds both of them against his big Giles chest and it's lovely.
Jenny: It's very nice. It's very sweet.
Kristin: He then-he also walks over to donut Willow and says, "I'm very sorry about Tara," because he knows that she can hear him. And of course she does not care and says, "This won't hold me forever." Oh my god!
Jenny: Okay, now…I have a bone…
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: To pick-[laughs]
Kristin: Is it a magic bone? [laughs]
Jenny: A magic bone to pick, sure! Giles just put Willow in a little nap donut. Why in the flipping god-mother-flip-faaahhh! Why-
Kristin: [laughs, makes beep noise]
Jenny: Yeah. Why in the hell would you leave Anya alone in the room with Willow [Kristin sighs] so you can go in the back and have a little catch-up-
Kristin: Well-
Jenny: With the straw dummy and the-the gymnastic horse. Or whatever that thing is called.
Kristin: Yeah, you wouldn't. Except for if you're writing a television show and you-
Jenny: Sure.
Kristin: Absolutely need for Buffy and Giles to get this moment. And I am here for it. I will sacrifice-I will buy into plausible-what a-you know what I mean? I'ma buy-I'm gonna-
Jenny: Okay. Yes.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: You're suspending your disbelief.
Kristin: There it is. [laughs] I'm suspending my disbelief so I can get this-
Jenny: Into a nap donut.
Kristin: [laughs] This scene. This is…one of my favorite scenes. I'm sure many of you feel the same. This is one of my favorite scenes in the series of this show. Like, all 144 fucking episodes and, like, this is up there. But before we get there and we all get to laugh together, we get some information. A., Giles agrees with all of us, the Council is a bunch of dingdongs. Great. B., there's an extremely powerful coven in Devon. I looked up Devon-Devon, England-and it's very beautiful. If you live there, congratulations.
Jenny: Congrats!
Kristin: Like, fucking gorgeous beaches and-it was really nice. If I were-
Jenny: Ohh.
Kristin: In a witch coven, I would also set up camp there.
Jenny: Sure.
Kristin: And we learn that that is how Giles has become the witch that he is now. He has been imbued with the powers of the coven, to battle this dark force fueled by grief that they were aware of, while the Council was, like, fucking filing their nails.
Jenny: [laughs] So…just to refresh your memories [Kristin laughs] from a little bit ago. Buffy's like-
NOTES: [Clip from episode plays]
Buffy: Giles, everything's just been so…Xander left Anya at the altar, and Anya's a vengeance demon again. Dawn's a total klepto. Money's been so tight that I've been slinging burgers at the Doublemeat Palace. And I've been sleeping with Spike.
NOTES: [pause] [Giles starts laughing]
Giles: I'm sorry. [laughs] I'm sor-[laughs harder]
NOTES: [Buffy starts laughing with him]
Kristin: An Emmy. An Emmy! An Emmy for Tony Head. An Emmy! For Tony Head. This is incredible. His little fucking Giels hand comes up over his still non-spectacled face. And he loses it. And so now, if you have finally gotten to this episode, you know that every time we put that fucking GIF up-'cause this is a big one. It's a big GIF moment for Giles. [both laugh] This is what he's laughing at. He's like, you have to be kidding me. I love this! I know that, like, I don't need to say it 50 times. It's just…you know, the…I think sometimes shows can just go too hard in, like, the drama direction. Because it's not accurate to real life, right? Like, when really horrible things are happening, it-those are also the moments when you laugh the hardest.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: It's like, the closer you get to total destruction, [Jenny laughs] also the closer you get to, like, being able to feel just complete and utter joy and laughter. And like, that is the moment that they're sharing here. And it is done-ugh! Chef's mwah, you know?
Jenny: [laughs] Yes.
Kristin: Meanwhile. [clears throat] Back in the front room of the Magic Box, of course. Willow is controlling Anya's mind.
Jenny: [cackles] It's good.
Kristin: [sim] "Anya?" I love-like, I think that the amount of times they use people speaking from the inside of their brain is the right amount of times. Like, because it always has-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: An impact on me. You know, like, you could overdo that-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And they don't. [laughs] So-
Jenny: No, it's very good.
Kristin: Anya's like, "You can't control me, I'm a vengeance demon." And Willow's like, go do this thing. She's like, okay, mm, okay. [both laugh] Okay, no, sure, sure, sure, sure, sure.
Jenny: No!
Kristin: So-but we cut back to the training room. They are still laughing. And-
Jenny: Oh my god, pissing themselves.
Kristin: Just dying. Just-you need this, you need this. You know, we've all earned it. So feel free, take a laugh. And [laughs] Giles is like, "I should never have left," and all of us shout from behind our television screens, damn right! [Jenny laughs] Meanwhile, Buffy's like, "No, you really-it's totally fine. You absolutely should have. Everything that you thought would happen happened and I, like, whatever." Mmm, debatable, but-
Jenny: [unconvinced] Mmm.
Kristin: There's too much to talk about in this episode to go too deep into that.
NOTES: [laughs]
Jenny: And Giles says, "Sometimes the most adult thing you can do is ask for help." And Buffy and all of us in unison scream, now you tell me!
Kristin: Right. [Jenny sighs] It is a valuable little nugget there, though. Like, that's a good-that is true. That is true. Being able to ask for help is probably one of the hardest lessons for many of us to learn, so-
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: Hey here's your little Kristin on your shoulder saying, hey, if it feels like perhaps you're in a place where you should ask for some help to do the thing you need to do or to get-just ask. Ask.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: I have a lot of trouble asking when I need help, so. [Jenny laughs] This is me telling you. You and I, we'll do it together, we'll ask for help. Jenny, help!
NOTES: [laughs]
Jenny: He…hello.
Kristin: [sighs] So. We get, like-I will say this. I really-there's a lot about this episode and, like, what it does that I really, really love. And a lot about this episode that I don't really love. So I want you to just know that when I'm talking about something I love, there are other things-and when I'm talking about things I don't love, okay, that's not my whole feeling on it. I have-I can hold two things at once. This is something that I love. It's the first sort of glimpse we get into, like, Buffy's emotional place and how that's changing here, moving forward here, taking a step forward. And what I like is that in this scene, she says to Giles, like, "It took a really long time for the feeling to go away that I wasn't really here." Right?
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And so she's acknowledging that, like, something has shifted in her. She doesn't feel sort of, like, as…out of herself as she did before. And then she says, though, "I don't understand why I'm back, though." And I just, like-I love that these two things exist together. That, like, it isn't just a story of, like, Buffy's better now. It isn't. It's like, Buffy still has questions. Buffy still has things that she has to struggle with and deal with and work through and move through. There's no-there's not, like, a bow. And so, like, when we get later on in the show, I just wanna remember this as well, that like-
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: There is not just, like, a happy smiley face on Buffy here.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: All that has happened is that she has found some hope and also found some healing. She has healed a bit through this season.
Jenny: Yeah, and Giles says, "Oh, you know, you're back because of your calling." And Buffy says, "It was my time. Someone would have taken my place."
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Okay, so…what?
Kristin: Faith-
Jenny: [sim] Because you were dead for two months, three months, five months?
Kristin: Right, and nobody did.
Jenny: A number of months. Nobody did.
Kristin: But that's because the Slayer's in…jail.
Jenny: [sim] We all agreed upon-we agreed upon the idea that-right-that-
Kristin: You only get one replacement.
Jenny: Buffy begot Kendra. Kendra begot-
Kristin: [sim] Kendra begot Faith.
Jenny: Faith. Now if that's not true, [laughing] what happened in all these months, that no one was called to replace Buffy? It's funny. A funny bit of logic.
Kristin: [sim] Well, and also, like-I mean. Speaking of the Council being a bunch of fucking dingdongs, like, what were they doing that whole time? [Jenny laughs] Because-I mean, I would imagine that, like, they would have either dealt with Faith-and by "dealt with" I mean killed Faith so that they would have a new Slayer.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: Or they would have at least fucking called up their friends and been like, "Can you let her out of jail?" You know, because you know they're friends.
Jenny: Please? Yeah.
Kristin: You know the Council is friends with the-yeah. So-but none of that happened, right. Anyway. This is also when we learn that the coven's plan-really hoping that we get to meet this coven. Because you know, they're just, like, sitting at the beach. I love that they just sent Giles to do it. They're like, you know, you just take our power. How about you take it and you go do it?
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah, so weird.
Kristin: We're chilling.
Jenny: We're gonna give you the keys to the 'vette, old man. [Kristin laughs] Have a lovely drive.
Kristin: Have-yeah, have a good time. It's a nice day here. We're gonna get tan. So-
Jenny: This is where Giles says, you know, be prepared because Willow, even if she does survive, she might not be the same Willow. She's killed a human being. Right? And pause, because-
Kristin: I know, you're mad about it.
Jenny: Am I? Well-
Kristin: [sim] Oh, I don't know-last episode-
Jenny: [sim] She also killed Rack. What is Rack?
Kristin: Right, we don't know. We don't know.
Jenny: So Rack doesn't count, I guess, because he was a creepy magic guy. Slash-
Kristin: He's a sorcerer.
Jenny: [sim] A dealer? [laughs]
Kristin: I don't know.
Jenny: Mm, okay. [laughs] And then he's like, "How's she going to live with herself?" Cut to [Kristin laughs] the doorway into the workout room, where Anya is floating and seemingly unconscious with her neck at an odd angle. [laughs] And from behind her comes Willow's voice saying, "I wouldn't worry about that. [yells] Willow doesn't live here anymore!" Smoke bomb, pyrotechnics. Freaking-
Kristin: It's good.
Jenny: Those really fast, noisy flash cuts they do in Angel between scenes. [both laugh]
Kristin: [sings Angel theme]
Jenny: [makes flash cut sound effect]
Kristin: [laughs] So. Yeah. The thought that I had that, like, isn't even worthy of making the joke. But I had it and so I'm me. Was when you said that Anya was floating and her neck was bent at a weird angle?
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: My brain said to me: Anya walked so that the bent-neck lady could run. So.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: You're all welcome, you know? I just-I can't hold these things for myself.
Jenny: Anya floated so that the bent-neck lady-
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah, that's better.
Jenny: [sim] Could float from a higher, creepier angle.
Kristin: [laughs] So…
Jenny: Willow-okay. This is…mmm, is this my favorite thing that Alyson Hannigan-like, my favorite Alyson Hannigan choice, as Dark Willow? She says, "Fool me once, shame on you" and waggles her finger in such a-[shudders] kind of way.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: I really, really like this choice. Not all Dark Willow choices-[laughs]
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Work for me personally.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: But I think this one is great. It's menacing and it's just, like, a tiny little bit silly, without being, like, overtly silly, you know?
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Alyson Hannigan-
Jenny: And then she throws a bunch of knives at Giles without her hands. But thankfully, he moves one of the workout dummies-
Kristin: There's just one.
Jenny: Oh. [laughs] He moves the workout dummy in front of him.
Kristin: [sim] It is the workout dummy. And like, just because, you know, we're talking about the workout dummy, I would just like to say that when we first cut into the training room, [laughs] Giles is, like, fingering the denim, uhh-the chambray shirt that the dummy is wearing. It's as though he's, like, also saying, like, "hey, bud. [laughs] I'm sorry I left you too." You know?
Jenny: He's about to just, like, pop the collar back, to be like, oh. Is this from J. Crew? [Kristin laughs] Is this from Brooks Brothers? Is this-
Kristin: Whose shirt is this? Did they take my shirt to put on the dummy? [both laugh]
Jenny: And then they start to fight!
Kristin: Yeah. So Willow, when she throws the knives at Giles and he blocks them with the dummy, like, they all kind of spin. But the one on the-like, the furthest ax does, like, 40 spins. It's, like, the show-off ax. It reminds me of the-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: The bell-you know the Christmas commercial with the Hershey Kisses, where they all ring and then the last bell is, like-just keeps on ringing?
Jenny: Ring-a-ding-a-ding-a-ding-a-ding…
Kristin: Yeah, that's this ax. It's like, look at me!
Jenny: Mmm. Yeah.
Kristin: So outside, shut up, Xander!
Jenny: Wait-
Kristin: Shut the fuck up. Shut up, Xander. Oh, sorry, they fight. [Jenny laughs] Fucking Giles throws Willow through, like, 40 walls and we cut.
Jenny: Oh, yeah. So Xander is leading the escape brigade. And this has to be the most leisurely pace an escape brigade has ever taken.
Kristin: [whiny] "Mom!"
Jenny: They are strolling. Which I know, they have to do so that they can have this very annoying conversation. [laughs]
Kristin: [whiny] "Mom!"
Jenny: But. [laughs]
Kristin: Remember when Dark Willow said to Dawn, "Mom!" This is actually who she should have-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Been talking to. To Xander. [Jenny laughs] [whiny] "I can't do anything!"
Jenny: Oh.
Kristin: [whiny] "Nobody needs me!"
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: "I'm Xander!" And then Dawn-I told you. I'm a fucking Dawn fan. Top-number one. A, number one, Dawn fan, Kristin Noeline Russo. Dawn's like, "Um. Feeling sorry for yourself isn't helping either." You fucking dumbass. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah. Xander-I mean. It's clear what they're, like, trying to do. You know, they're trying to…show that Xander feels like he, you know-he's just feeling like a real failure by the end of this season. He's not-all of his friends have powers. He left his very hot wife at the altar. He's just kind of a wreck. And he's really focused on that right now, for some reason, instead of…focusing not on that. He also-right, he's also, like, watching his best friend be-like, turn evil. And like, is power-feels powerless to stop it. He is, like, feeling…you know, max powerless, I guess.
Kristin: Is that, like, the-the…
Jenny: No. [laughs]
Kristin: [sim] Lesser brother of Max Headroom? [laughs]
Jenny: No. That's not how naming conventions work, Kristin.
Kristin: Yeah. So this is…this is where I struggle with this episode, right? And I'm also, like, giving a little bit of a voice to-I don't know if you remember my conversation with Emma when we talked about the loss of Tara and, like, that whole journey. But Emma, and a lot of the sort of Kitten Board fury, [laughs] about this and the way that this episode goes is like, so. Willow is in this relationship with her partner, Tara. Tara dies. She's full of grief and rage and the person who saves her is this fucking dude, who talks about a crayon? Like, that was the very painted with broad brushstrokes, like, are you fucking kidding? I have, like-I have space for-I like-and we can, you know, go deeper in when we get to the actual ending, right? But like, I have space for, like, love and humanity being something that is important to focus on. But this shit? Like, the fact that we have seen Xander, like, stomp his adult man way through the last several episodes. And like, just be so focused on himself, because he's so upset that he can't save the world and he doesn't have powers or whatever. And then at the end, he is the hero? Given the fact that this is a show, an arc, created by a certain problematic man is-does a lot of things to me that I do not like. So I'm just saying that here, and remember-remember Kristin of-ghost of Kristin past said she's not gonna like everything. But she likes some things, so this is just me liking not something. I will like other things. And I'm gonna talk about it more when we get to the end, but I just-
Jenny: Yeah. I mean, it's especially difficult because he has some very poor moments in this very episode. Like right here, when Dawn says-
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: "If Spike were here, he'd go back and fight." And Xander says, to Dawn, the 16-year-old sister of his friend who has been assaulted, "Sure, if he wasn't too busy trying to rape your sister."
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: My dude!
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: The ways in which this is deeply inappropriate-
Kristin: This is-
Jenny: And so very much not your thing-
Kristin: No.
Jenny: To tell a-like, legally a child about.
Kristin: Well, and it's not even-it doesn't even matter-like, I mean, it does. Like, that is valid and true.
Jenny: Sure. Yes.
Kristin: But you should-like, that is not-it is not his place to tell-to talk about Buffy's trauma to anyone else.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: That's her decision to make. But also, on top of talking about this thing that is not his to talk about, he literally weaponizes her fucking trauma for himself! The only reason he fucking says this is because he needs Dawn to know that he wouldn't do this. And he is a good guy and nobody knows that he's a good guy. That is using your best friend's fucking trauma so that you can feel better, you motherfucker! Ughhh! [clears throat] Thank you.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah. [Kristin laughs] Well, anyway.
Kristin: Well, anyway! Let's get a scene with Spike.
Jenny: [sim] In more shirtless locations-
Kristin: How great. [laughs]
Jenny: Mmm! Here's Spike at the demon cave.
Kristin: Oh, god.
Jenny: Shirtless, looking destroyed. And he says…[Kristin sighs] now, listen to these interesting words.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: I'm gonna read them as neutrally as I can. [Kristin laughs] "I'll take anything you can throw at me if it'll get what I need to take care of the Slayer. Give her what's coming to her." Now. The way that I just read those lines, you know, they could mean, um…they could mean something positive. The way that they are performed, they do not [laughs] feel in any way positive. They feel-
Kristin: I don't even agree with that. I don't even agree-
Jenny: Oh, really?
Kristin: No, I don't.
Jenny: Really?
Kristin: I actually do not understand how "give her what's coming to her" could-I mean, you'd have to really bend-
Jenny: [sim] Oh, you're like, he-
Kristin: The energy in that-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: To make it positive.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah, it's almost as if he's saying, "Bitch is gonna see a change" right here. [laughs]
Kristin: Right. I mean, right. Like, this is-
Jenny: Yeah, okay, cool.
Kristin: [sighs]
Jenny: [cackles]
Kristin: I mean, I just, like…[Jenny cackles more] here's what I wanna know. Because last-
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Last episode or the episode be-I think it was last episode. I talked a little bit about, like, James Marsters sort of-and I couldn't find the information that I wanted to find. And that is not because it isn't there, it's just because of, like, limited resources and time to devote to certain areas of research. But what I found led me to believe that James Marsters was not told about the final scene of this episode until he had basically done all of these other scenes.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And so I would love if you know-if you, like, have the proof. [laughs] If you have the receipts about that-
Jenny: If you have the receipts? Mmhmm.
Kristin: Yeah, then please email us at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com. Because I'm pretty sure that that's the case, but I can't say it with 100% confidence. But I just…we know that he-right, he gets his soul, at the end of the fucking episode. We know that.
Jenny: We know that he gets his soul at the end of the episode. And you know…that's interesting.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: It's very interesting.
Kristin: [sim] But why fuck with us? Why fuck with us?
Jenny: Well, why fuck with us and also why give us a performance that-
Kristin: Yeah. Well, and I blame that on-
Jenny: [sim] [laughs] That leans so far in the other direction. It's not-it doesn't feel ambiguous.
Kristin: [sim] Because James Marsters-James Marsters is an incredible actor. And like-and I'm gonna get mad about this in advance, and maybe I'm wrong. But if this man did not know the last scene, he was not given the fucking tools that he deserved to give us the performance that would have actually maybe been a little bit better than this. My firm opinion is, don't fuck with us on this. Like, don't. Like, if you want your character to go get his fucking soul back. If that's the journey after the scene-
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: That you showed us in Seeing Red. If that's where he's going, then make him go there. Let us see him go there. Don't fucking play with our minds after you've done something like that. It's-to me, that is, like, not okay. But at the very fucking least, tell the man who plays this character-
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Who is obviously an incredibly skilled actor-
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: What the deal is so that we can, at the very least, get the nuance. And I don't think that that happened here, and I'm not okay with it. Neither is Jenny, so.
NOTES: [laughs]
Jenny: Indeed. I have more to add to this when we get to the end-
Kristin: [sim] Yeah. Yeah.
Jenny: Of our conversation about this episode.
Kristin: It's almost like it's a finale.
Jenny: Almost! You know what else happens in finales, usually, Kristin?
Kristin: Mm?
Jenny: There's almost always huge CGI beetles. Everyone knows the most fearsome challenge in any physical trial is huge CGI beetles crawling up your nose. Of course!
Kristin: Just one. Just one. It's the special beetle-
Jenny: And he doesn't do anything!
Kristin: [sim] It's like the sperm that meets the egg. It's like that one beetle.
NOTES: [laughs]
Jenny: [sim] He just-he just sits there! He just sits there and screams. He's not, like, fighting the beetle-is the challenge, like, letting them crawl into your nose? Like-
Kristin: Yeah, what does he have to do?
Jenny: This demon really needs to work on its communication. [Kristin laughs] It needs-I mean, it's got the nails. It's got the look.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: [laughing] But it really is not communicating.
Kristin: The-
Jenny: I love that we get another closeup of his little claws clacking together. That's, like, how he expresses.
Kristin: [sim] In this challenge: beetles. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: For this challenge…bugs.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Yes. So, anyway. While Spike is being beetle'd, the Magic Box is fucked up. The Magic Box is looking like Lorne's karaoke lounge up in here. Fucking-
Jenny: [both laughing] Oh my god, yes. Caritas part two.
Kristin: It's actually, I think, Caritas part three. I think Caritas has already been destroyed twice. [laughs]
Jenny: Right, right, right. Willow-
Kristin: Yeah, it's burning. The books are burning.
Jenny: Yeah, whew! Some things are on fire. Willow looks like she's got the upper hand. And she says, "That all ya got, Jeeves?" [both laughing] How dare. What a rank, arrogant amateur.
Kristin: [laughing] Jeeves. "I can go ten more rounds. Nothing can hurt me now. This," and she, like, waves her hand in front of her face, "is nothing." And then she gets real serious for a second, and she says, "It's all nothing." And we're like-all of us watching from the year 2021 are like, uh-huh. [laughs]
Jenny: And then. Buckle up, because Giles says, "If you lose someone you love, the other people in your life who care about you become meaningless? I wonder what Tara would say about that."
Kristin: Ooooh!
Jenny: Ahem!
Kristin: That's my note. My literal note is 47 O's with an H. Oooh! Like, oh shit, no you didn't, Giles! No, you did not.
Jenny: Then Willow says, "You can ask her yourself." [Kristin laughs] And shoots a little zappy bolt at him. Oh…my god!
Kristin: So many, like, zappy bolts and glowing orbs that come from various orifices of these witches' bodies [laughing] in this episode. Just like-
Jenny: Orifices.
Kristin: Opening palms and mouths and fucking, just orbs of magic flying.
Jenny: Luckily, Buffy pushes him out of the way. And then Willow's like, "You're kinda-you're always saving everyone. It's kinda pesky." [both laughing] And she comes up with a scheme, an incredible plan! Oh my god!
Kristin: Yes. This plan-this plan actually has a theme song, are you ready?
NOTES: ["Fireball" by Pitbull starts playing] Baby, I'm a fireball
NOTES: [Kristin clears throat]
Jenny: Waaaaaah! Yeah, Willow's like, [dramatically] "I'm gonna-mmm, I'm gonna send this fireball to bury Jonathan and Andrew and anyone helping them. Unless somebody can get there in time to save them!" [Kristin laughs] And she throws the fireball through the ceiling. And it's off. And Buffy's like, fuck. And Giles is like, "Just…go."
Kristin: I mean, Giles is, like-knows he's maybe gonna die. And he's still like, god-fucking-damnit. Like, his face is just like, come-come on, man!
Jenny: [laughs] This bitch!
Kristin: Also. Like, before we even leave this scene. So-so right. So Willow's like, boom, throws the fireball. Giles is like, god-fucking-damnit. Buffy's like, god-fucking-damnit. And so then Buffy runs out of the Magic Box after the fireball. [laughing] The way…it takes her seven hours to get to the door. It's, like-I don't understand why they let us see this run. [Jenny laughs] It's, like-it's not her fault, because-[Jenny cackles] believe it or not, Sarah Michelle Gellar is just a human person. But, like-
Jenny: No!
Kristin: The fireball's, like, thrown to the heavens and Buffy's like…[makes little tapping sound] [both laugh] It's funny.
Jenny: Yes. Well. Shit.
Kristin: "Thought she'd never leave," says Dark Willow. "Now I have you all to myself." So. Buffy made it outside. Four hours have passed, she's on the streets of Sunnydale. [both laugh] We get a shot of the-[Jenny gasps] Big U. The U. [Jenny gasps] Faith's U?
Jenny: What big U? Who's been up there?
Kristin: [laughs] Literally can never see that U without being like, Faith is back there with her arrows, right? Her little poison darts. Ready to shoot somebody.
Jenny: [sim] Yeah, her little compound bow.
Kristin: If only she was, she could have caught what Buffy sees in the sky! What is it?
NOTES: ["Fireball" by Pitbull starts playing] I'm a fireball Woo-woo!
Jenny: Well, she's off, after the [quietly] fireball. [Kristin laughs] Now, Willow, being evil and all-
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Has to monologue while she does things.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: That's the rule.
Kristin: Yes, it is.
Jenny: She's thwapping Giles against the ceiling and against the floor and against the ceiling and against the floor. [Kristin laughs] And then, rude. She takes his frigging power. And then, oh no, Kristin. [both laughing] After she takes his power, the world gets a little hazy and spinny-
Kristin: [singing] "Oh, in my naked eye, I saw-"
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: [sings tune]
NOTES: [both laugh]
Jenny: And she begins to say things like, "Whoa, head rush" and "who's your supplier?" And then, oh no. "I'm so juiced."
Kristin: Guys.
Jenny: Eugh!
Kristin: Guys. Guys.
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: It is still 2002. This is what all young people were led to believe being high on drugs felt like. We got a lot of this-many, many echoes of a person, [laughs] trailing.
Jenny: Yes. Yes.
Kristin: They really went hard on the trails, you know? Like-
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Your hand would trail or your face would trail.
Jenny: I wanna see-[both laugh] I wanna see Willow-[both laugh] I wanna see Willow diving into a bar bathroom toilet to retrieve some herbs. Some magical weed. [laughs]
Kristin: Oh, god. I thought you were gonna say, I wanna see Willow diving into an empty pool, which was, like, that fucking "don't do drugs" com-you remember that fucking commercial?
Jenny: Ohh. I was thinking of Trainspotting. But also-
Kristin: [sim] That's how they tried to get us not to do-
Jenny: [sim] Also cautionary. [laughs]
Kristin: Not to do drugs. They were like-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: "This girl smoked a joint and then she thought there was water in the pool."
Jenny: [sim] [laughing] She jumped into an empty pool.
Kristin: What?! [laughs] Get outta town!
Jenny: This is your brain. [Kristin laughs] And a literal chicken egg. This is yourbrain on drugs: a literal chicken egg frying in a pan.
Kristin: Guys, that's not science. But-
Jenny: It is memorable.
Kristin: [laughing] It is. I mean, we literally remember, like, a shot-for-shot of those commercials, so. Anyway.
Jenny: Willow is experiencing something new. And she says-you know, she's saying she's feeling extremely powerful and connected to everything and everyone.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: That she can feel everyone's feelings, which sounds like a total nightmare.
Kristin: Yeah. This is what happened to Cordelia, remember?
Jenny: I only feel my own feelings and I'm ready to retreat into a distant mountain cave and never return. You know what I mean? [laughs]
Kristin: I mean, I do. I just-like, sorry, I just had a Cordelia thought that then, like, took a couple steps on its own here, in real time. Which is just, like-'cause this is essentially what happens to Cordelia in Angel, right? She has this moment where she-her visions overtake her so much that she feels all the pain in the world, all at once, and it's slowly killing her. And the reason that my brain took a couple more steps is 'cause I was like, oh, that's interesting that, like, Cordelia's character is essentially like, I will carry it. Like, I will just carry it until I die. Like, that's how I will sort of try to do my best.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And Willow is like, I will deal with it by ending the world, which is-I mean, that is-
Jenny: [laughs] "I've got a whole other plan."
Kristin: Yeah, I got another way of dealing with this. But it is-we've talked, obviously-I mean, we've done big deep dives into Willow's addiction arc and, like, all of this stuff. So like, we've had some conversations that tie in here, which is just that Willow's big thing for this whole season has been, like, she doesn't wanna feel pain. And so, instead of, like, facing that pain, she wants the pain to go away. She wants to make it go away. So this is, like, really in keeping with that. Like, this is the biggest manifestation of that, you know? Like, now she sees all the pain-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: So she's like, I will make it all go away. That is the only way to solve this.
Jenny: So. Willow is so disturbed by feeling all these feelings-
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: And everyone's pain that she hatches a little plan to bring about the end of the world. And you know whenever you're planning to bring about the end of the world, your voice naturally deepens again-
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Two to three octaves-
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: And she says, "Oh, you poor bastards. [deep voice] Your suffering has to end."
Kristin: [laughs] And then-and then she poofs!
Jenny: [sim] And then she poofs away.
Kristin: And we already know that that also is not an efficient way to travel. So we've had Buffy just slowly meander out [Jenny laughs] after the fireball. Then we've got Willow, off to end the world slowly, in a flash away.
Jenny: We've got Xander's Sunday stroll escape. [both laugh] From sure death.
Kristin: Fucking Season 6, Episode 22, colon, Strollin'. [both laugh]
Jenny: So speaking of Xander. He's in the cemetery, kicking very ineffectively at a door to a crypt.
Kristin: It's not just a crypt. It's the crypt of Richard Alpert, a character you might know from the television show, Lost. [laughs]
Jenny: Well, and also, Richard Alpert, a real guy?
Kristin: Hmmm.
Jenny: Who was a spiritual teacher and psychologist and author.
Kristin: Hmmm.
Jenny: Who went on eventually to be known more readily as Ram Dass? Or Baba Ram Dass?
Kristin: I, uh-
Jenny: Who the character on Lost of Richard Alpert is named after. [laughs]
Kristin: I tweeted about this grave-or not grave. Mausoleum, I guess-a while back. And I was like, look, it's Richard Alpert's-it's, like, Richard Alpert's ancestors who are buried in the Sunnydale cemetery. And a lot of very astute Lost [laughing] fans said, "Well, I mean, technically it could be his-you know, his kids. Or it could be-" [both laugh] any of the Alperts could be there.
Jenny: [sim] Anybody from the timeline.
Kristin: Literally. [laughs] So. So yeah, they're trying to get into a mausoleum, to hide? This doesn't-
Jenny: I guess so. Why don't they just go to Spike's place?
Kristin: I mean, literally, so many times, I have that question. Like, later, when we're in the earth, but I'll ask it then. [both laugh] So yeah. Go to Spike's. If that's your plan, then go to the one you know that is open, where Clem's probably just hanging out, eating Doritos.
Jenny: [sim] With snacks.
Kristin: Yes. So. [laughs] Don't worry, everyone. Buffy is here and she's made it in time for Dawn to look at the sky and say- [Clip from episode plays]
Dawn: Xander?
Xander: What?
Dawn: What is that? ["Fireball" by Pitbull starts playing] I'm a fireball Woo-woo!
Kristin: [laughs] It's the last time I'm playing it, okay? [Jenny laughs] Comedy comes in threes, everybody. So there's my joke, that's my standup routine [laughing] for the season finale of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, Season 6.
Jenny: Good job. I salute you.
Kristin: Thank you. Thank you so much.
Jenny: Um. Yeah, unfortunately…[laughs]
Kristin: Ugh. Fucking Xander.
Jenny: This is not a great episode for Xander in a number of ways, and this scene is no exception. He uses ableist language.
Kristin: Why? Just why, man? Like, it-and I mean, it's not the first time. This season has been riddled with a lot of-I mean, the series has a lot of ableist language and moments in it. But certainly, Season 6, 2002. There's a-there was a lot, in this season-a lot of times that we've heard language like this. And it's just unnecessary.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: It's unnecessary! And also harmful. So, Xander.
Jenny: And for some reason-
Kristin: Shut up.
Jenny: In spite of this, Buffy still saves Xander's life. [Kristin laughs] She ran all the way across town, Kristin, to push a couple people, like, three feet.
Kristin: [laughing] Three feet.
Jenny: They-it was a real big fireball. I think they saw it coming.
Kristin: [sim] Also, that fireball-that fireball stopped at the Espresso Pump for a fucking coffee on the way.
Jenny: Yeah. [laughs]
Kristin: You know what I'm saying? What happened here? What is going on? [laughs]
Jenny: That fireball stopped to pick up some tinder, you know what I mean? [both laugh] It's pretty silly, but-
Kristin: Silly.
Jenny: I guess we needed to get Buffy out of the Magic Box and with Dawn-
Kristin: [sim] And a hole in the ground.
Jenny: [sim] So that they could fall-
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Into a big grave-y pit! Followed by not one, but two swords. Exactly the number of swords as there are the number of Summers in that hole.
Kristin: Where do these swords-where do these swords come from? The boys-?
Jenny: Were they the swords that Andrew and Jonathan were holding?
Kristin: That's what-my brain did that loop and I never confirmed it, 'cause I'm like, I think it would be a little on the nose for just two swords to fall out of, like, random places in the earth for them. And they did-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: They pulled those swords off of the wall in the Magic Box, so I guess it was theirs? But yeah, down they go.
Jenny: Down they go-
Kristin: Xander hits his head.
Jenny: And is knocked out. Andrew and Jonathan look into each other's eyes. [Kristin laughs] Clock the situation. Jonathan says, "Mexico, huh?" And they run off into the night together.
Kristin: They run off at the same exact mile per hour speed as both the fireball and Buffy. [both laugh] [singing] "Strollin'! On a Sunday afternoon!"
Jenny: [sim] Look, Sunnydale has a very strict 35 mile-per-hour town speed limit. [both laugh]
Kristin: Back at the Magic Box, we get a lot of Anya/Giles time in this episode, and I'm literally always here for it.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Anya's like, "Are you okay?" [laughing] and Giles says… "I can see." And Anya goes, [Jenny laughs] "Oh. Uh, it's a miracle." [both laugh] I love you, Anya. I love you.
Jenny: But look. He can see Willow. He knows where she is, he knows what she's up to.
Kristin: [laughing] Yes.
Jenny: He tells Anya that he's dying.
Kristin: Silly girl.
Jenny: And she says-
Kristin: Tricks are for kids. [laughs]
Jenny: "No, you're not. No, you're not!"
Kristin: Oh, he says it was the only way. So we are to understand, I think-please correct me if I'm wrong, 'cause sometimes my brain gets a little confused. But that Giles knew when he took this magic that he was likely gonna die from-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: This journey. Like, he-this was, like, a self-sacrifice on Giles' part. And maybe also why the witches were like, "Here you go." [both laugh]
Jenny: Have fun!
Kristin: Not us, man. This shit's on you.
Jenny: Storming the castle.
Kristin: You left. [laughs] We told you not to fucking leave, so. But yeah, I mean, joking aside, it's a really-I think it really heightens the story and, like, adds to the whole thing when you know that Giles not only came back, but came back to sacrifice himself so that Willow might not have to either die or live forever with interminable grief and guilt. You know? He tells Anya, "She's gonna finish it." Anya's like, "Hmm?" and he's like, "The world." And we get-we never get this, in Buffy the Vampire Slayer. A beautiful sunrise shot. Some B-roll of the sunrise. [Jenny laughs] I'll take it.
Jenny: Is it just me or is time passing very quickly?
Kristin: [laughs] The sun strolls onto the horizon.
Jenny: Yeah. [both laugh] So-now this is important to note. Buffy is trying to climb out of the hole in the ground.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: And she cannot.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: She-it's-she's not able to climb out of the hole in the ground.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Yet. [laughing] She is totally unable. There's no way. She's trying to stack coffins on each other. It's not working out. Please note that Buffy cannot climb out of this hole.
Kristin: She cannot climb out of the coffin-I do-I would like to give her props for trying to stack-I think stacking coffins is a fun idea. That's a good-
Jenny: Totally.
Kristin: That's some good problem-solving. Hey, Hellmathians, how many coffins do you have to stack to get out of a…what do you think, it's like-
Jenny: [sim] Hole. [laughs]
Kristin: What do you think, it's like, two feet? A coffin? Two feet high? Probably like a-we got, like, a 15-foot hole here. Seven coffins. [HELLMATH jingle plays] Hellmath!
Kristin: Probably gotta open the coffins, so that they-you can't stack a coffin on top of a closed coffin, 'cause it's usually got a curved top-
Jenny: Rounded on top, yeah.
Kristin: Rounded on top, you gotta open it and then stack it and then open that one and stack it.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: Satisfying. I think this would be satisfying to see. So. [laughs] We don't see that, though. And this is where I'm still-this is where I get real mad about Spike-like, 'cause I know-I understand, writers, that we needed something to get Dawn to say what she says about Spike and for them to have this exchange. But the problem with it is that Dawn is making a valid point. "Hey, we're down in these tunnels, I recognize them because Spike uses them to get to the literal place that exits this place." And Buffy's like, "Obviously, we're not going to Spike's. We need to get out of here." And I'm like, but ma'am. [laughs] She's literally told you-
Jenny: [sim] [laughs] It's very weird. There's a, like, ladder-
Kristin: [sim] There's a clear way. Yeah. [laughs]
Jenny: Or something there. You could just hop right up. He's not in town!
Kristin: He's not-and yeah. Right, again, like, I know, I get it. Like, we had to get here, but I just feel-some of these writing moments, I'm a little frustrated with. Because I do think that there were ways that we could have gotten to some of these places that would have been more plausible and more believable-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And would have left us not being like, what?
Jenny: Wouldn't have felt so loop-holey.
Kristin: Yeah, exactly.
Jenny: Dawn confronts Buffy about the assault.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: And Buffy's like, [sighs] Xander. And we're all like, [sighs] Xander.
Kristin: [sim] Ugh, Xander. [laughs]
Jenny: And Buffy says, "Now is not the time." And Dawn is like, "It is always the time when I wanna know stuff."
Kristin: Yeah, Dawn is like, "I don't know if you've met my character, but." [both laugh]
Jenny: Yeah. [Clip from episode plays]
Buffy: Dawn. You might not have noticed. We are in really big trouble here. This is not-
Dawn: Why did you not tell me?
Buffy: Because you didn't need to know.
Dawn: Yes, I do. I need to know. I'm not a kid anymore.
Buffy: Dawn, I'm trying to protect you!
Dawn: Well, you can't! Look around, Buffy. We're trapped in here. Willow's killing and people I love keep dying. You cannot protect me from that.
Kristin: So this-I feel differently about this exchange, obviously, than I do about the way Xander weaponized Buffy's assault. I think that…I don't think that Dawn needed to know. I think that-the way it's phrased is not on. But I think-I think-maybe I'm giving Dawn too much room here. But I think that what Dawn is meaning to say is you could have told me. Right? Like, that I-'cause the core of this is like, I am an adult too. I mean, not an adult. But I'm-I'm here and I'm able to receive information. And honestly, I think that, like-I think that Dawn is able to receive this information in a way that Xander certainly has not and cannot. Like, I think that Dawn not only could receive the information, but could receive it in a way that is complex. And a way that, you know, Buffy is trying to tell it, that it isn't just black and white. It isn't just one thing, it's multiple things. So the phrasing is a little off to me, but-
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: If we're to read this as, "you could have told me. I was able to receive this," I like this.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah. Dawn is, you know, Buffy's charge. Like-
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Buffy is now, you know, her parent-ish.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Guardian. But Buffy doesn't live a life that is within the bounds of regular, mortal life. And Dawn is gonna be a part of that and Dawn has only been a mortal herself for, like, a year or two. [laughs]
Kristin: Yeah. And Dawn has-I mean, I think-I really think Dawn in a lot of ways has proved her capabilities. Obviously, we're gonna get that, like, really driven home in this episode. But I do think that, like, she-she has made a good case for herself as somebody who can hold her own, and also, like, receive information that is difficult to receive, in all capacities. I'm not just talking about this. You know, like-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: She's been through a lot of trauma, just like the rest of them. She's part of the crew here. She's part of the gang.
Jenny: Yeah. [AD BREAK]
Kristin: Meanwhile. Xander, go get some fucking rope, man!
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah.
Kristin: [laughing] Anya-Anya appears and I guess the way of vengeance demons is they just are like, "take me to this person." But they don't realize, like, where that-they will be until they're there.
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah.
Kristin: [laughing] 'Cause she, like, arrives and she just says, "Holy frijole!" [both laugh] She's down underground and it's so good!
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Emma Caulfield is so fucking good.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah. She's great.
Kristin: Tiny-like, the tiniest sidebar, 'cause I know that this is a finale episode and it's long. But I-I'm, like, four episodes into Wandavision. And just fucking delighting in the Emma Caulfield of it all as well there. Like, she just is so good. She's so fucking good. Okay.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm, mmhmm. Anya-you know, she's like, "I was just with Giles." And Dawn is immediately like, "Ugh! You didn't tell me Giles was back." Dawn.
Kristin: Okay, yeah, that's too much, Dawn. [laughs]
Jenny: You've been-she just found out! [laughing] Just hang on! And then Anya says that Willow is headed for a Satanic temple on Kingman's Bluff.
Kristin: Heard of it? Do you know what this bluff is, Jenny?
Jenny: Tell me all about it.
Kristin: Well, we've been here once before. And it was when the big snowstorm of 1998 happened! [laughs]
Jenny: [whispers] Oh my god.
Kristin: This is the same bluff.
Jenny: Oh-
Kristin: The same-
Jenny: You're telling me this is the bluff where someone said, "Am I righteous man?"
Kristin: [laughs] I am.
Jenny: "Am I a thing worth saving?"
Kristin: I am! Same fucking bluff.
Jenny: [sim] Oh. My. God.
Kristin: So everybody's welcome that we get to think back to the epic snowstorm, the Christmas-Christmas Eve, 1998. The episode was Amends. And that whole time-that whole scene, he was standing on top of a Satanic temple. Who knew? Now we can go back with that knowledge.
Jenny: Do you think he was drawn there, like, subconsciously?
Kristin: [laughs] Maybe. I also-so just, like, a quick Angel to Buffy thing. Because this-so this episode aired on the 21st and the Angel season finale aired on the 20th, the day before. And this finale ends on Kingman's Bluff, like, overlooking the sea. And the Angel Season 3 finale ends at Point Dume, I believe it's called, which is also a bluffy beach ending. So everybody's-everybody's going to the beach. [both laugh] For bad things. Bad things at the beach, but-
Jenny: Mmm. Bad beach.
Kristin: Anyway.
Jenny: So you know, cut to Kingman's Bluff. Willow is using her incredible power to raise the temple up out of the earth, 'cause it was buried, right, in an earthquake. Here's the thing, though. She only-she only raises it up enough so that the element that she needs is exposed. Most of the temple is still underground and she's like, that's good enough.
Kristin: That'll do.
Jenny: You know, the budget is pretty much up. So.
Kristin: [laughs] Also, like, no offense to Willow's power, but it was her power and also some wires, which are very visible in one of the shots.
Jenny: Oh my god. [both laugh] Well, no, maybe that's-maybe she created those wires with her powers.
Kristin: That's actually-yeah. I like that. I like that, we'll build it in. So this is the temple with the effigy of Proserpexa. That is a lot.
Jenny: Proserpexa
Kristin: When you put "effigy" before it, it's hard to say it all.
Jenny: Effigy of Proserpexa.
Kristin: There you go. A…she-demon-referred to as a she-demon, who-
Jenny: Classic.
Kristin: Hot! [laughs] Followers of Proserpexa were going to use this effigy in 1932 to destroy the world, but then the earth was like, mm-mm-mm! The earth wagged its finger like fucking Dark Willow. [both laugh] Don't think so! And then swallowed the temple.
Jenny: It's just like, why everybody wanna end the world all the time?
Kristin: And was this their plan too? Because Willow's plan is kind of cool. Like, her plan is to take, like, the energy of humanity and, like, funnel it through the effigy. And then that will become the thing that burns the earth? It's like-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Using people to destroy themselves-it's like people destroying themselves, which is kind of-
Jenny: It's-
Kristin: Maybe she did it and it's just happening slowly. You know?
Jenny: Oh, yeah. And we're still feeling its effects today.
Kristin: Yeah, yeah. [laughs]
Jenny: It's definitely a very energy efficient way to go about destroying the world.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: So hats off to that.
Kristin: She doesn't have to burn any coal or do any fracking for this.
Jenny: No. [both laughing] No fossil fuels of any kind were used in the funneling of this life force and the cinderification of our planet. So Anya also says that Giles said no magic or supernatural force can stop Willow.
Kristin: How convenient. [laughs]
Jenny: How-A., how convenient. B., I'm really starting to wonder what the writer of this episode-like, what else he had going on this week. [both laugh]
Kristin: Ohh.
Jenny: [laughing] I just feel like-
Kristin: No, I know.
Jenny: There is just, like-it's-whew! It's really just, swoop, cobbled together.
Kristin: [sim] There's just a lot-we could have tidied it up a little.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: We coulda made it a little nicer around the tree. [laughing] As I like to say.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah. And then Anya's like, "I really should-"
Kristin: [sim] Around the effigy. Make it nice around the effigy.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Okay.
Jenny: Yeah. [both laugh] 'Tis the season. So, Anya's then like, "Okay, you have all the information that you need to finish this episode. I should get back to Giles. He is alone and I don't think he has a lot of time left." Nooo! And Anya poofs back away. Then Willow starts talking in Buffy's brain.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: [snorts] Just one more talking-in-the-brain time.
Kristin: Yeah, there's this back and forth. First, she starts her thing-Dark Willow-she's like, "From the pit of forgotten shadows!" And then she's like, "goddamnit." [both laugh]
Jenny: The drama!
Kristin: [laughs] Always the Slayer, never the slain. She doesn't say that, but-
Jenny: She doesn't.
Kristin: I was just trying to play on "always a bridesmaid, never the bride." Always a Slayer trying to save the world, but I'm the only one who can." Everybody's like, "By killing us?" She's like, "Yeah. It's the only-"
Jenny: Yeah, correct.
Kristin: That's the only way. To stop this pain. That's the only way.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Giles-we're seeing that Giles is seeing this, as well. Like, everybody is kind of, like-it's almost like Primeval-ish. Minus Xan-like, they're very-Giles and Buffy and Willow are very connected in a Primeval-ish way.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: Which is kind of interesting, actually, to think about, given, like-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Where Xander-how Xander shows up in the end and what have you. But Willow is sort of like, you should get to go out fighting. That seems like a good plan. You love to fight. You're, like, a warrior, whatever the fuck. I-
Jenny: Yeah, Willow's like, "I've cooked up a special treat worthy of ending a great warrior. I call it-[cackles] I call it, crab-handed swamp thing root monsters. What do you think?!"
Kristin: Why do they have to have fucking lobster claws? Why?
Jenny: [cackles] I don't fucking know. These are goofy guys, but I'm happy to see them. [laughs]
Kristin: I guess they had to be demons and not just, like, the earth falling on them, because Dawn had to, like, fight. So, fair.
Jenny: Right. Right.
Kristin: But I like them too. We've had a lot of-there's a lot of earth demons. Earth-lot a little-these are like little evil Groots. [laughs]
Jenny: [whispers] Evil groots. [laughs] Oh boy.
Kristin: [laughs] So Willow also, I think, is very proud of herself. Because she gets to deliver-she-you know, she's been around Buffy for six seasons. So she's like, this is my time to shine with my own jokes.
Jenny: Uh-huh. Uh-huh!
Kristin: And she's like-[laughs] she's like, "It was me who took you out of this earth. And now the earth wants you back." A little play on "I put you into this world and I can take you out." And-
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: Buffy is like, I can't-I actually can't do this by myself. And you know, shit. Dawn's the only fucking person here, so I guess I'll give her a sword. No. She's very-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: It's a very nice moment. [both laugh]
Jenny: No, she's like, "Help me with this sword!" And Dawn's like, "I got your back." And Buffy's like, "Cool, the worst thing that could happen is you'll get snipped by some root monster crab hands." [both laugh]
Kristin: Pinch! Pinch-pinch!
Jenny: Yeah. [both laughing] They're just gonna pinch Dawn to death.
Kristin: Oh, god.
Jenny: Good. It is good.
Kristin: So the world starts shaking and Buffy's like, fuck, it's Willow. We cut to the Magic Box and Anya-Anya, classic, like-these are not Anya's last words. But like, if this were the end of the world, this is a classic way for Anya to go out. [Clip from episode plays]
Anya: It was good of you to teleport all this way. [earth shaking sounds] Though in retrospect, it probably would have been better if you hadn't come and given Willow all that magic that made her, like, ten times more powerful. That woulda been a plus. [both laugh]
Kristin: You know? Yeah. She doesn't have tact. She doesn't need tact, you know? Fuck tact.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Okay. Here we go.
Jenny: So Willow's, you know, well engaged with her Satanic earth syphon, when some human flesh interrupts it. It's Xander. Here's Xander.
Kristin: "Hey, black-eyed girl."
Jenny: [sim] And Willow's like, zaaaap! Huh?
Kristin: Yeah. And he blocks the zap with his body. And-
Jenny: Yep. Yep, yep, yep, yep.
Kristin: [sim] She's like, "Xander, get out of my way." And like…what are we gonna do here? What's the plan of attack? Are we gonna talk about the fighting of Dawn and Buffy? Or are we gonna go full on in for fucking Xander and Willow here? I can't jump back and forth. It's too-there's too much emotion in both.
Jenny: Alright. Let's talk about Dawn and Buffy sword fighting the root monsters.
Kristin: Great. Well, Dawn does a good job! She cuts their head off!
Jenny: She does a great job. Do you think that there's any part of Dawn-Dawn's, like, swordplay skill-that's coming from some sort of preternatural-
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: Made from the rib of a Slayer [Kristin laughs] kind of deal? You know?
Kristin: Maybe. I like that, I like that. And I also like her-her explanation, which is like, "What, you think I've never watched you?" I've been watching you and I wanna be like-you know, like, there's a lot about you that I like and that I wanna be like, too. It's really sweet. And what's also really sweet is that the lobster claw trees give them this moment. You know? [Jenny laughs] They're quiet for a second. Just one second. [both sigh]
Jenny: They're like, oh. I have something in my eye. [Kristin laughs] Oh, it's good. It's good!
Kristin: It's really good. Okay, so now let's get on in to the muck here with Xander and Willow. Xander's whole thing is like, "If you're gonna end the world, I wanna be with you 'cause you're my best friend. And you're my best friend no matter who you are." Yes, Jenny? Jenny held up one finger. It was not a waggle finger, it was a "hold that thought, Kristin. I got some shit to say." What do you got?
Jenny: I just wanna say. Something to keep in mind, while all of this is going on, is that right now, Buffy believes Xander is going to get her some rope. [Kristin laughs] Buffy's like, "where is the rope?" right now. Just so you know.
Kristin: Also, how did Xander get to this temple so quick, like-
Jenny: I'm-
Kristin: He just ran up the bluff? Like-
Jenny: I guess he just ran. I mean, he heard-did he hear-?
Kristin: I guess it's-
Jenny: He was hearing Anya talk about what was going on, right?
Kristin: Right, right, and he just went.
Jenny: And he was like, Kingman's Bluff? No supernatural power can stop her? I'm not in the least supernatural. I should trot over there.
Kristin: You think he knew? You think he knew?
Jenny: I don't know.
Kristin: That's a good-no, that's a really good-like, 'cause I didn't even think about that. Like, right, did he hear that and think, like, maybe I can help?
Jenny: Maybe. We don't see him hear that.
Kristin: 'Cause that would change it a little bit for me. I don't even know how I would feel about it, but he-regardless, he can help. And the way he-I mean, and…this is what I love, right? I do love the idea that "I love you as-" you know, he tells this yellow-the infamous yellow crayon story. That he remembers being teenie-tiny Xander with teenie-tiny Willow, and Willow broke the yellow crayon and she was very upset. She didn't want anybody to know that she had broken the yellow crayon, because she's Willow and whatever. Fine. And the, like, core-the little core of it, of like, I loved you when you were this kid and you were worried about doing the wrong thing. And I love you as this grief-stricken person who is, like, really just not okay. I love all the versions of you, and that love will help bring you back to yourself.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Like, I do think that that is powerful and beautiful. If it wasn't in the vessel that is Xander and that has been Xander for these last few episodes, it would be a lot easier for me to be like, wow, that is incredibly-that's a really incredible thing. It's just that it-it's just that, like-it really is just the Xander and Joss of it all that kind of fucks me up with the narrative, you know?
Jenny: I think the idea-the raw material-
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Is good and powerful. I think that we've just, like, lost the thread a little bit. Especially since, like, the wedding, maybe?
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah.
Jenny: You know, since the wedding, it's been kinda…
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Kinda tough. It's felt a little, like, regressive-y?
Kristin: Yeah, and like, I wish-you know, in a many-episode way, I really wish that that hadn't been the case for the character of Xander. Because we had been really, like, on board for growing with Xander. And I think that, like, he could have been traumatized by his own observations of, like, partnership and marriage and have left Anya, perhaps not at the altar. I don't-like, a lot about this season, like, I just don't know that it had to be as dramatized as it was made to get across the points that it needed to get across. You know, like, I don't think that Anya needed to be left at the altar for us to get where we are. And if that didn't happen that way, I also don't think that Xander needed to go as far as he went. I think that this could have been a really beautiful story if Xander realized his trauma, had to leave Anya. Anya was devastated by that, became a vengeance demon. You know, like, all of this story, I think, could have been told in a way that was just…better. [laughs] The girls on Angel On Top asked me, with no warning, if I liked Season 3 of Angel better than Season 6 of Buffy. [pause] And I said I did. I'm just confessing my sins.
Jenny: [sim] Even with Justine?! [both laugh]
Kristin: Yeah, I mean. But-and I think this is the reason why. Like, I think this-that's what brought it up for me in my brain, is like-'cause there's a lot of incredible stuff in Season 6 of Buffy that I love. And I really appreciate the season for many reasons. There's a whole podcast, you can go back and listen to all of the reasons. [both laugh] But in terms of, like, telling a story, I just think that they-I just think they went too hard in these places where they didn't need to. And that it would have been much better as a big arc if they hadn't-
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: And more powerful if Xander had not-if they hadn't made him, like, fall off the shitty fucking cliff that he fell off of over the last few episodes. 'Cause we were there with him. And we would have-I think we would have rooted for him even more to be this person for Willow in this moment, if they hadn't done that.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah, I agree. I know too that this scene is, like, very beloved to a lot of folks, especially-I think-especially because the member of the group who is not powered in any way-
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah.
Jenny: You know, is the person to save the world. And of course, that is a very powerful idea, that-
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: I think, that we are super into. I think that just the-definitely the lead-up. Like, the characterization-like, Xander's kind of backslide. And just the way that this episode is put together…I don't…I don't know if it's the writing, the performance, or if the writing and performance would feel better if the lead-up was different.
Kristin: Yeah, I don't think it's the performance. I really don't. I think that for the most part, the performances are really solid. I think there's-I think, you know, it's-and it's not-like, I don't think it's just the writing of this episode alone. You know, it's like, everything has to be taken in the context that it came from. And so, we have a lot of-we have a lot of, like, wobbly metaphors and moments in this season. And so it's hard to, like, have it all land precisely. But I agree and I know you said-you used "we," saying that, like, we appreciate this. And I just wanna echo that, like, I do too. Like, I do think that there's something really powerful about the person without the magical abilities, without the super strength, being able to, like-
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Use their love for a person to save the world. That's rad.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah, I mean-yeah, what a…what a…what a strong and beautiful idea.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: That maybe just doesn't quite land as solidly here as it could have.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: But we still appreciate it.
Kristin: Yeah. We get this-like, the back-I think the-I mean, this-it's devastating, right? Like, the way that the scene unfolds, too. At least I think. When he's like, "I love you," and she's like, "Shut up." "I love you." "Stop." "I love you." And you see-you see-what we learn from Giles is happening, later on-you see this humanity in her just, like, crumbling the exterior.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And Alyson Hannigan, you know, you can-[laughs] we've all become intimately familiar with what it looks like when Willow cries. And so we know. [Jenny laughs] It's kinda like when Angela Chase's lip quivers, you're like, oh boy! Here we go. [both laugh]
Jenny: Here it comes.
Kristin: Here-or chin-her chin wobbles, I should say. And this is that for Willow, that like, we see the-we can see the sobs in her body before they get to the surface of her face. Which is-man, if that's not acting, I don't know what is.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: But she falls to the ground and Xander's holding her. And it's beautifully-I mean, I think it's a-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Beautifully shot moment, where like, we see just Xander's back and his large frame sort of, like, holding her.
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: And her hair changes back from black to red.
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: And-it's-yeah! Jenny has something in her eye. And I think-
Jenny: I do.
Kristin: I think we do. And we're not even done yet! We're not even done. [Jenny laughs] Like, this is-I mean, fucking-this moment is so powerful that Sarah McLachlan's over in the green room, warming up, man.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: She's fucking, like-
Jenny: Doing her ovular trills.
Kristin: [sim] This seems like it calls for a-[laughing] music by me and me alone. [both laugh]
Jenny: Back at the Magic Box. Anya's like, "Hey! We're not dead."
Kristin: [laughs] "You're not dead."
Jenny: [sim] And Giles-[laughs] Giles reveals that the-that the magic that Willow took from him was the true essence of magic. Versus Willow's magic, which came from rage and power. [laughs] And Anya's like, "And vengeance! Don't forget vengeance!"
Kristin: [sim] Don't forget. Yeah. [both laugh]
Jenny: And like you said, that magic tapped into the spark of humanity that she had left.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: And helped her feel again and gave Xander the opportunity to reach her.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And Anya's like, "My Xander?" [Kristin laughs] And Giles is like, "He saved us all."
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah. So Giles knew what the fuck was up, this whole time, man.
Jenny: Yep.
Kristin: He knew that she would take it. He knew that it would-I mean, I don't think he knew that it was gonna end well. But he knew there was a-it was the only chance.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: [sighs] And then we get this scene down in the hole, that certainly no one can climb out of.
Jenny: [laughing] Definitely not.
Kristin: Between Buffy and Dawn.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah. Dawn's like, "I think it's over. We're still here." And Buffy's crying. And Dawn…salty teen! Is immediately like, "Oh, sorry to disappoint you." [Kristin laughs] But then is like, oh, wait. [laughing] Are you happy crying?
Kristin: What's going on? Yeah. She's like, I'm not yet a girl-not yet a woman.
Jenny: [laughs] I'm simply not yet a woman.
Kristin: Yeah, but. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah, and Buffy's like, "No, I didn't want the world to end, you friggin'…nuh!" [laughs] And she's like, "I know things have sucked, but that's gonna change. And I wanna be there when it does."
Kristin: Mmm!
Jenny: And she wants to see Dawn grow up, [high-pitched] 'cause she's gonna be beautiful and powerful!
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: [high-pitched] And she's like, "I got it so wrong. I don't wanna protect you from the world, I just wanna show it to you! And there's so much I wanna show you!" [normal] And then Sarah McLachlan is like-
Kristin: [sim] And then Sarah McLachlan is like-
Jenny: [sings a note] [both laugh]
Kristin: I tweeted this today, like, right before we started recording here, that like, I-you know, I came to the finale, like-well, I got a lot of feelings, okay? But I'm not so sure about this and that and the other thing. And then, like, this starts happening and, like, Willow's crying and Xander's holding her. And like, I care about them, because they feel like my family! And then Buffy and Dawn are, like-
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: Getting along. And then Sarah McLachlan plays and I'm just like, that's it. I love everything, this is a perfect episode of television. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah. So, while Sarah McLachlan croons- ["Prayer of St. Francis" by Sarah McLachlan starts playing] Lord make me an instrument of your peace… [continues playing in background; gradually fades out as Jenny speaks]
Jenny: We see Buffy and Dawn, climbing out of the hole. And we're like, oh, did Xander come back with the rope? [Kristin laughs] So that they could finally climb out of the hole somehow? ["Prayer of St. Francis" by Sarah McLachlan starts playing again] Where there is injury, pardon… [continues playing in background; gradually fades out as Jenny speaks]
Jenny: No, the next scene is Xander still holding Willow, who is still crying. [Kristin laughs] Oh, um. Did Anya maybe poof back with some rope? ["Prayer of St. Francis" by Sarah McLachlan starts playing again] Where there is darkness, light… [song stops]
Jenny: No. No, Anya is helping Giles out of the rubble at the Magic Box. She is busy! ["Prayer of St. Francis" by Sarah McLachlan starts playing again] And where there is sadness, joy… [song stops]
Kristin: Here's the image. No, here's the image, this is what happened.
Jenny: [sim] Okay.
Kristin: In a scene we didn't see, 'cause Anya is at the Magic Box. But she left for a minute. [Jenny snorts] She poofed back. She stood underneath the hole. Then Dawn stood on Anya's shoulders. Then Buffy stood on Dawn's shoulders. And that is how she got out of the hole.
Jenny: Still not tall enough. I have no choice but to conclude that is upon-
Kristin: [sim] We called it 15 feet.
Jenny: The wings of Sarah McLachlan's beautiful, angelic voice that Buffy and Dawn have been lifted-
Kristin: [sim] Would you say it was on the arms-the arms of…
Jenny: Of an angelic voice? [laughs] No, get out of here. Get the fuck out of here.
Kristin: Was it on the [singing] "arms of…"
Jenny: [sim] Okay.
Kristin: [singing] "The angels. [Jenny sighs] I will carry you out of the hole." This is-this is important. This is a nice, circular-let the circle be closed. Of course, the reason that the writers said, eh, fuck it, let her crawl out of the hole is because we very clearly get the same shot that we got in the beginning of this season. With Buffy's hand reaching out of the grave-
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: And pulling herself up. Which of course-
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: Right? It's there to tell us that, like, this season has been a lot.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And perhaps she physically crawled out of that grave in Episode 1, 2? [laughs] But she didn't actually crawl out of that grave until now.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: She has moved through. We have moved through. [laughs]
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: All of our little hands [laughing] are shakily reaching up the earth right now.
Jenny: [sim] Yes. Scrabble through the dirt. [both laugh] Yeah.
Kristin: We get a mont-a Sarah McLachlan montage, are you kidding me? Yes, please. Any day of the week, I'll take one. Buffy and Dawn. Xander's holding Willow. Anya's with Giles. [laughing] We even get Jonathan and Andrew in a truck, on their way to Mexico. [sighs] And we're like, wow. We did it. Wait! Wait!
Jenny: Wait. [brakes squealing noise]
Kristin: [brakes squealing noise] We've forgotten…[laughs]
Jenny: We forgot about one dude.
Kristin: [sim] The last trial of Spike's, you didn't see it. But it was actually him at the hair salon, getting his hair redone. 'Cause it is platinum in this scene. It is redone. [both laugh]
Jenny: He had roots previously? At the demon cave?
Kristin: I mean, I don't-it just looks blonder. I just feel like-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: The manicure demon was like, you know what, man? You did a good job. I'm taking you to my salon, it's right down the street, okay.
Jenny: No, I like-I wanna see the demon put the plastic [Kristin laughs] home bleach gloves on over his long, long nails. And massage the lightening agent directly into-
Kristin: Oooh.
Jenny: Spike's scalp himself. I…
Kristin: That sounds nice.
Jenny: That's my head canon. So listen.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: [sighs] Spike has endured the required trials.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Can you believe it? And Spike says-I'm gonna say very neutrally, once again. [Kristin laughs] I think this text is more compelling-
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: More arguable.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: So-
Kristin: But everyone knows what we're doing now.
Jenny: I know. "So you give me what I want, make me what I was, so Buffy can get what she deserves."
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Okay. And then-
Kristin: Now that is text that can go both ways.
Jenny: Yes. And Cave Demon says, "Very well! We will-" we? [laughs] Is this demon speaking in the royal we? [both laugh] "We will return…" dot-dot-dot, "your soul!" [Kristin laughs] And then he puts his clawed hand on Spike's chest. And Spike's eyes fucking are aflame as he is re-ensouled. And now-now we gotta talk about this for a second.
Kristin: Oh, yeah, we do.
Jenny: Because again, uhh, you know.
Kristin: Yeah. I do.
Jenny: There is a divide.
Kristin: Honestly-I think-
Jenny: There is a divide.
Kristin: Before-
Jenny: In the viewership.
Kristin: We even-
Jenny: About intent.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Sorry.
Kristin: No, no, I want you to get into it. I just wanted to say, before we even started this podcast, I remember you talking to me about this. Like, this has been-this has been in your little hoof for a long time. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah. Well, it's just very interesting. Because if what we believe happened happened, which is that James Marsters was working without full knowledge of where this was headed-
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: That again, like, took away the tools that he would have needed to render a more nuanced performance, where there was a little more room for interpretation. Rather than, like, what to me feels very, like-very ham handed? Or no, it feels…it doesn't feel like there's room in what we've seen up to this point for us to go back and be like, ohhh! You got us!
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: That's not what it feels like. But.
Kristin: Agree.
Jenny: I was reading some tweets.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: The source of which has left my brain, I'm so sorry. But I read some interesting things on Twitter, if you can believe it. Someone put forth the idea that Spike went to see this demon with the intention-
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: With the conscious intention-
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Of getting the chip out of his head so he could become Spike the regular vampire again.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: But his truest desire was actually to try to become a better man.
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: And thus, what the demon is responding to, wish-wise-
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Is Spike's heart's desire-
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Rather than his conscious, sort of like, vampire-brain desire.
Kristin: Mmhmm. Okay.
Jenny: Which, you know, is interesting.
Kristin: Yeah. It's-I mean, that is compelling and interesting to me. I-I-
Jenny: But, alternatively.
Kristin: [sim] But I also-yeah.
Jenny: Oh, sorry.
Kristin: I just don't wanna give the credit to-'cause I don't-like, I think that would have been cool if that was the intention. But I don't think it was. And I-we can make it in our brains whatever we want it to be-
Jenny: Sure.
Kristin: And I like that read.
Jenny: Sure. I'm-I mean, I'm interested in, like, what were they trying to do? What were they genuinely trying to do? Of course, we can't really, truly know. We can only kind of, like, surmise and take-
Kristin: But we do know, right? Like, it is a known thing that the-that Marti and Joss knew from when he left town how they were ending the season. Like, they did know that he was getting his soul back at the end.
Jenny: One other thing that was said in this thread that I was reading was…that…[Kristin sighs] what?
Kristin: I just sighed 'cause I just was imagining James Marsters giving us the performance of the Spike who, in his head, thinks what he wants is the chip out, but in his heart, actually wishes to be a better man. And like, just-think about, like, how that actor would have taken that direction.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Like, if that had been the deal. It would have been so fucking good.
Jenny: Think about what we would have seen in that scene-
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: In his crypt with Clem when he was like, "Oh, things can change if you make them."
Kristin: Yes. Yes.
Jenny: Think about the depth and complexity we could have seen in the performance, instead of…the sort of, like, "meh! I'm an evil guy" kind of look to the camera.
Kristin: [sim] And like, you know-I think we would be frustrated about it regardless. But also, when you know what it is attached to-like, when we're talking about-when we have this entire episode of conversation around restorative-like, how do we enact accountability? How do we enact, like, restorative justice? How do we heal? How do we-like, all of these questions. These are the questions that sat upon the decision of what we did here with this writing, which is why, like, it would have been frustrating no matter what. But knowing the, like, stakes of this? It's just-yeah. A bummer.
Jenny: One other thing that was said in this thread was that-asking the question, like, why would Spike, you know, travel to another continent to endure terrible physical trials, with a demon, to get a chip out of his brain that could, in theory-if he could just get one competent surgeon on his side. All he would have to do is turn a surgeon. A brain surgeon.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: He would just have to make a vampire neurosurgeon-
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: And then, he would have somebody he could trust to remove the chip.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Right?
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Of course, he hasn't had that idea yet. Because…Spike. But that is, I think, a point in the general direction of, like, oh yeah, no, it's less believable that he would travel to another continent and-
Kristin: Yeah…
Jenny: Do a bunch of trials to get a piece of computer equipment out of his brain.
Kristin: Right, right. And I, like-I guess, like, there was a part of me that also thought that, like, what he was after-like, that he had just kind of accepted the fact that he could never get the chip out of him. And so what he wanted was to just, like, find his inner evil-you know what I mean? Like, the way that it was delivered to us was like, I have this chip and it's fucking me up. And I need to go back to the evil that I was. Like, that it was, like-he had given up on taking the physical thing out of his brain and instead was, like, after just getting-being able to be evil Spike-
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: With the chip.
Jenny: Right. Right, right, right, right.
Kristin: But we'll never have answers to these questions. So…
Jenny: We won't.
Kristin: We can just fucking sit here and ask them, for days on end.
Jenny: Yep. Yep, yep, yep. Well.
Kristin: Do you think that wherever-[laughs] I actually know exactly where Angel is right now. But do you think, wherever Angel is, his soul was like, aw, fucking hell! [both laugh]
Jenny: Yeah. Quite possibly.
Kristin: Not room in this town for the both of us, sir! I am the vampire with a soul. That is my gig! [laughs]
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm, mmhmm. Surely not two in Southern California?
Kristin: Surely not. [laughs]
Jenny: [sighs] Well. Where does this leave us, Kristin?
Kristin: Well, I for one would like to get sexy. [SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays] Sexual tension award!
Jenny: Well! Welcome back to the final installment of the Sexual Tension Awards for Season 6!
Kristin: Activate Emily McLongstreet. [both laugh] If you're new-if you're newer to the pod, just so you know the way that this rolls, that every season, we do a-now, we do a vote off for the winner of every episode. And that at the end of the season, Emily McLongstreet, champion of Sexual Tension Award brackets-
Jenny: Mmhmm!
Kristin: Will lead us fearlessly through voting for the winner of the whole season. And my friends, we are only one season away from having all seven winners compete against each other! [laughs]
Jenny: [sim] Oh…my god! Well! The only way we can get to Bracket Town is for me to deliver unto you-
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: This episode's noms and their various slots-
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: And then for you to vote on them, so let's get down to business. In slot number one. He's sweaty and shirtless, and he [Kristin laughs] needs a demonic manicure. It's Spike and the Cave Demon, battling it out through a series of friggin' physical trials that are testing Spike's metal. While Cave Demon, who apparently-this is what he's into-just watches.
Kristin: Oooh! He's like, here, have some beetles.
Jenny: Clickity-clack.
Kristin: [sim] Hmm let's do your hair. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. In slot number two, your noms, well! [fake laughs] One of them is wearing full eye black contacts and has little blue veins all over her face, and one of them is just power. It's Dark Willow and Power! She can't get enough of it, she's in constant pursuit of it. She is…after it.
Kristin: She's slurpin' it right out of the bodies of-
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Humans. Just slurpin' it right up.
Jenny: [sim] Slurp. Slurp. In slot number three. Long has she waited to wield a weapon worthy of her frail little wrists. It's-
Kristin: [singing] "She's not a girl. Not yet a woman!"
Jenny: [sim] She's not a girl. Not yet a woman. It's Dawn and Sword Fighting! The thing she has longed for, this whole time. All she wants to do is help with the sword fighting! [takes deep breath] And in slot number four, the absolute slot for me to announce for Season 6.
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: Are you ready?
Kristin: I'm ready.
Jenny: Perhaps it's been said, they always were fated to end up together.
Kristin: They keep trying.
Jenny: They keep trying. It's the Life Force of Humanity…[Kristin laughs] and the Effigy of Proserpexa!
Kristin: Woo!
Jenny: Woo, woo, woo, woo, woo!
Kristin: [sim] 1932. 2002.
Jenny: It's a love that will not die, actually.
Kristin: [sim] Guess we'll see you again in 20…72.
Jenny: The desire has been building for decades upon decades. [Kristin laughs] And here it came close to coming to a head.
Kristin: Mm. They got so close.
Jenny: If you wanna cast your vote and make your voice heard in our Sexual Tension Awards democracy, please find the poll on our Twitter, @BufferingCast. The poll will be up for one week from today. So…choose well. Choose wisely.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Stay sexy.
Kristin: [laughs] Also, before we jingle on out to the other side of this segment. Just so you know, if you want to be a part of the bracket-right, 'cause we're not gonna have-
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Necessarily episodes rolling into your ears for a little while, 'cause this is when we get to take a lil' nap. We don't actually do that, but-
Jenny: [clears throat] Hello.
Kristin: You can pretend we do. [laughs]
Jenny: A donut nap.
Kristin: [sim] You should follow us somewhere. Because the bracket will be posted on Instagram, on Twitter, and on Facebook. We're BufferingCast in all those places, so if you wanna be in on those bracket votes, go there. That is where we will let you know when each new round begins and you can cast your votes. [SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays] Sexual tension award!
Kristin: Well.
Jenny: Well, well, well.
Kristin: Jenny, how are you feeling? How are you feeling about this season?
Jenny: Uh…you know. I'm kind of, like…feeling a little relieved [Kristin laughs] that it's over. Is that okay? [both laugh]
Kristin: Yeah. It is. It is. It's been, um-it's been a real season. And I love-you know, like, what I love about the ending we get is I feel like we are-I know I reference Bastian and Atreyu and their story to reality connection in The Neverending Story. But this really feels like we, too, are in this montage, you know? Like, I would like you to play the Sarah McLachlan song and in your mind, you see the scenes of…Anya and Giles. You see Xander and Willow. You see Buffy and Dawn. You see the duo on their way to Mexico. You see-and then you see Jenny and I, talking into microphones.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: And you see Alba, you see Mack, you see LaToya. You see yourself. You see us-you go into the store, you're buying a mask for the first time, putting it on your face 'cause you're like, what's this thing? This is nuts. Oh my god. [Jenny laughs] You're going-you know what I mean? Like, you're just-give yourself the montage you deserve, because-
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: It's been a fucking season! Okay?! [laughing] It's been a season.
Jenny: Truly. It's been a lot.
Kristin: It's been a lot, guys! And we're fucking still here, and we're still talking about Buffy the Vampire Slayer. [sighs] But like…thank you. For journeying with us.
Jenny: Yes. What a pleasure it has been. Well! What a time it has been-
Kristin: A time.
Jenny: [laughing] At times, pleasurable. And times difficult, but the whole time-
Kristin: [sim] Like I said-
Jenny: We've been together.
Kristin: The line between, you know, experiencing deep trauma and deep joy is usually quite thin. So we've had both.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: [laughing] We've had both, all of us in different ways. But we did it, we got to the end of this season. You should know-and I'm sure that we mentioned this up in the intro as well-that while we are on a break-and you can always follow our schedule on bufferingthevampireslayer.com. Just go to the calendar. There are two calendars, but when you click on "calendar" it'll take you to our production calendar and you'll see all the things that are happening and what have you. The other calendar is our antiracism calendar, which has, like, incredible events of all different genres, all different kinds of activities and things to participate in over there. But in this break, for us, we will be re-airing some of the episodes that were over on the Patreon feed, 'cause we had some-we had so many episodes this season that we didn't put them all in the main feed. And so, we will be putting the conversation that we had with Jess Clark, about assault and the scene specifically between Spike and Buffy in Seeing Red, in the main feed. We'll also be putting the Unbury Your Gays episode in the main feed, so there will be some stuff rolling into your ears, if you haven't gone over to Patreon to hear it there.
Jenny: Yes! [sighs]
Kristin: Jenny.
Jenny: Yes?
Kristin: Thank you [Jenny gasps] for sitting across the virtual table from me, for the last near-to year.
Jenny: My pleasure.
Kristin: And journeying through this season with me. I care about you very much.
Jenny: [sim] Thank you as well. Likewise.
Kristin: Thank you so much. I kinda forced your hand there. She had to say that, you know what I mean? [both laugh] I care about you very much. Kristin looks through the ether at Jenny. And you?! [both laugh]
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: Yeah. So we'll see you. We'll see you back here for the-whew!-seventh and final season, when we come back.
Jenny: Wow. Huge deal.
Kristin: How's that possible? It's like the Oregon Trail up in here. We're like a whole different set of people by the time we get to the end of this fucking thing.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, and I have a long, gray beard. [Kristin laughs] Now. We've changed so much since Season 1. Okay. But we haven't changed all that much because I'm still Jenny Owen Youngs! And when I'm not making this podcast, well, I'm doing a bunch of other stuff. I make another podcast called Veronica Mars Investigations with my pal, Helen Zaltzman. We've come nearly to the end of our Veronica Mars journey, but we're gonna be talking about other stuff still over there. So if you wanna hear more of my speaking voice, that's a place you can do it. You can also hear a whole lot of my singing voice, and I'll tell you where! You can find my music by searching my name, Jenny Owen Youngs, on your favorite digital music platform. You can also give me a shout on Twitter @JennyOwenYoungs. You can join me for livestreams on Twitch, on pretty much a weekly basis. In fact, I'll be doing a stream this very evening, 5 PM to 7 PM Eastern, on my Twitch channel. You can find me over there and in the weeks to come as well. And hey, one other thing. I'm in a band now called L.A. Exes and our debut album Get Some is out now on all digital platforms. It's pretty fun and it's fairly gay, which-
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: Seems like it might be up your alley. [laughing] Fans of Buffering the Vampire Slayer may enjoy musical bouts of homosexuality.
Kristin: [sim] I like gay shit. Yeah.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: I like it. Give me that gay shit, you know?
Jenny: That's where you can find-those are the places you can find me.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: And hear me, in the break.
Kristin: Yes. And if you go to gimmethatgayshit.com, you will find out more [Jenny snorts] about me. [laughs] Just kidding! I wish! I wish I owned that URL. I don't. You can learn more about me and my gay shit on my website, kristinnoeline.com. We haven't played the beautiful jingle that you have written for people to know how to spell my name in a while. So let's hit that.
Jenny: Hit it, me! [KRISTIN NOELINE jingle plays] Kristin with an I N-O-E-L-I-N-E
Kristin: And you can use that spelling of my name to find me on Twitter and on Instagram. I got some stuff going on. Honestly, the biggest thing that I have been doing recently is different events, virtual events, at workplaces and also with, like, high school GSAs and library groups and things like that. I do a lot of talks for parent groups at workplaces. I also do a fun podcast with Joanna Robinson. It's on our Patreon here-
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: Buffering the Vampire Slayer and on The Storm's Patreon. And it's called Feels Like the First Time. I'm running out of movies. I'm just a regular fucking cinema afficienado these days. I have watched, like [Jenny snorts] literally four million MCU movies.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: I have so many feelings. The episode on my feelings about Marvel went up last week. Anyway, you can listen to me talk more about that on Feels Like the First Time. And Jenny. In case anybody missed it, who are we?
Jenny: Oh my gosh! We are Buffering the Vampire Slayer. We're on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram, @BufferingCast. Or you can drop us an email at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin: It's true, you can. And you can support the work that we do here. Biggest and best way to support this work is by becoming a patron of ours. Patreon.com/bufferingcast, or you can find any and all of the things that we talk about here on the website, bufferingthevampireslayer.com. You can also go over and scoop up some of our merch. We've got so many new, fun things in the store-both stores, both the UK/EU store and the store here in the States. You can rate and review us, if you care to. Or you can just, like, feel a lot of love in your heart.
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: And we'll get it.
Jenny: We'll hear your voice in our heads, like everyone who knows Willow.
Kristin: Yeah. [laughs]
Jenny: May have to at any time.
Kristin: You can play Sarah McLachlan, you know, for us.
Jenny: We'll feel it.
Kristin: As we reach our little wobbly hands out of the earth. [laughs]
Jenny: Yes, correct. Well. You're all beautiful. And till next…season?
Both: Awwwooooooooooooooooo! [Jenny Owen Youngs performing "Grave" off the album "Songs from Season Six" by Buffering the Vampire Slayer]