Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 6.15: As You Were
NOTES: [CHIME]
Jenny: Heh-heh-hey, everybody!
Kristin: Oh, hey! Just two girls, having a live recording, in front of hundreds of wonderful Scoobies.
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: We've already done it for us and for those of you who were there. But for those of you who weren't there, this is your first time. It was a great time.
Jenny: Get! A load! Of us!
Kristin: Jenny wore a turtleneck that she made out of a scarf and a sweater, you'll hear about it. [Jenny laughs] I had a couple of costume changes. You know, you won't hear this 'cause it's not part of the edited episode, but we put on gloves. So there's a lot of good shit, you know? It's a fun time. A fun time was had by all.
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: And we just have a couple of-couple of quick things to tell you here at the top, before we get into it.
Jenny: Mmhmm!
Kristin: We are doing a massive store overhaul, and this is what it means for you. We have a gigantic sale happening through the end of this month. Monday, June 28th is when the sale ends. You will get 25% off everything in the store, using code SEASONSIX, spell it out, S-E-A-S-O-N-S-I-X, Season 6, woo hoo! That code will work in both stores, here in the US and our UK/EU store. The only thing you will not get 25% off of is the vinyl, because vinyl is expensive. And then here's the real rub. We close the store on June 28th, and we will have the store closed until the end of July. So if you need anything, if you need some crop tops, if you need some enamel pins, if you need anything, you gotta get it now. And I would get it now anyway because you get 25% off. Also, if you're a patron of ours at the $10 level or higher, this means that your normal 20% goes to 35-freaking-percent off. So…
Jenny: [makes noise of approval]
Kristin: There you have it. Get your goods. Not-
Jenny: Sounds like you can't afford not to buy a bunch of merch. [both laugh]
Kristin: Some of the products will not be coming back. The old favorites will for sure come back. Some of the stuff will be retired and when we come back at the end of July, we will probably have a few new things for you.
Jenny: Ooh! Spicy. [laughing] Speaking of things. Both old and new.
Kristin: I hope-one day, I'm gonna put a wish [Jenny laughs]-I'm gonna manifest a wish. I hope one of our listeners takes all of your Sexual Tension Award transitions [Jenny laughs] and just stitches them together. [both laughing] "Speaking of things."
Jenny: Yes! We have a very clear loser and-
Kristin: Aww.
Jenny: A near three-way tie-
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: In the results for this installation of the Sexual Tension Awards for Older and Far Away! In fourth place, with a sad and lonely 8% of the vote, it's the demon and his sword. In…third place, but just by a slight vibration…[Kristin laughs] it's the body massager and subtext, with 28% of the vote.
Kristin: Yep.
Jenny: Then in second place, with 29% of the vote, it's Spike and Buffy. And shockingly-
Kristin: You see-
Jenny: In first place-
Kristin: This makes a case for bringing toys into the bedroom, because if Spike and Buffy had been paired with the body massager-
Jenny: Oh my word!
Kristin: They would have taken it, but…
Jenny: Mm!
Kristin: There you have it.
Jenny: Instead, first place goes to William and Hallie with 35% of the vote!
Kristin: Congratulations. I wanna think-
Jenny: Old flames die hard!
Kristin: I wanna think that part of the reason they won is because the emoji I used for this vote was the infinity symbol, which felt romantic. [both laugh]
Jenny: Oh yeah, that is-that's the most romantic…of all-
Kristin: Right, finding each other-
Jenny: Symbols.
Kristin: In all times and realms. So hey, um, it's Pride month. Welcome.
Jenny: That's right. Can I tell you something incredibly gay that's happening to me right now that I'm very proud of?
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: A little while ago, I made a creepy, dramatic cover of the Frank Sinatra classic, Witchcraft-
Kristin: Ugh, it's so good.
Jenny: [simultaneously] And it's currently being used in the Season 2 trailer for
Motherland: Fort Salem. Which is a show about many things, including but not limited to gay witches, something you and I know a little bit about.
Kristin: Fuck yeah! Love it. Also, I've heard the fucking song and-I don't mean to brag, but I heard, like, an advanced copy of the song.
Jenny: [laughing] Okay.
Kristin: It's great, it's so good. Will people be able to buy the song? Or get the song?
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's on iTunes and Apple Music and Spotify. Wherever you stream music or download music, you can find it.
Kristin: It's so spooky and good.
Jenny: Aw!
Kristin: That is very gay, thank you for bringing it to the gay table.
Jenny: Any time.
Kristin: We're doing a fundraiser in the month of June and we're doing that fundraiser for an organization that I think many of you are already familiar with. It is called For The Gworls, G-W-O-R-L-S. If I'm saying that incorrectly, please let me know. They are a Black, trans-led collective that curates parties-and they did a lot of really fun online stuff during the pandemic-to fundraise money that all goes to help Black transgender people pay for their rent, gender-affirming surgeries, smaller copays for medicine and doctor's visit, and travel. All the donations that you make to the organization-it is F-O-R-T-H-E-G-W-O-R-L-S dot party, ForTheGworls.party-will enter you, if you'd like to be entered, into a raffle, if you will, for some really freakin' amazing bundles of Buffy stuff. There's an enamel pin bundle-there's actually four of the enamel pin bundles that we'll be giving away. They're all the same. They have the new pin pack, they have the Big Fucking Nerd pin, they have some pins that have been retired and are out of the store and no longer for sale. They have some exclusive pins like the singing pterodactyl pin-
Jenny: Ooh!
Kristin: That was only available to ultimate Scoobies. We also have a framed Once More with Once More With Feeling poster. It's actually a square version of the poster. Only one exists because I printed it and made it myself. [Jenny laughs] And my favorite-my favorite prize-my favorite bundle is the bundle called Emo-lation Watch. [Jenny snorts] It includes a copy of-how do you say it in French, Jenny? La-
Jenny: Oh boy, I don't know.
Kristin: [with French pronunciation] La Nausea. [with English pronunciation] Nausea. [Jenny laughs] The book that I scoured bookstores for in Paris, like, two years ago and found. [Jenny laughs] So that's my copy for you.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: And it comes with-'cause, you know, Angel reads it by the fire. Emulation. [Jenny laughs] And then it also comes with the last Spike candle that we have.
Jenny: Wow!
Kristin: Which, you know, fire, candle. So fire, candle, fire, drama, emo, also a Why Are Men pin, because why are men?
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: Anyway, those are some of the prizes. They're really cool bundles and it's a really incredible organization and it's Pride month. So donate and then tell them, Jenny, how-if they would like to tell us what they donated, how do they do that?
Jenny: You can pop on over to bufferingthevampireslayer.com/forthegworls. That's F-O-R-T-H-E-G-W-O-R-L-S.
Kristin: Yes. And even if you don't wanna enter-if you wanna give and you don't wanna enter into the contest for a prize, go on over there anyway and just let us know that you donated. You don't have to put your name down or anything, just the amount. Because it's really nice and special for us to see what we're able to mobilize as a community-
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: For all these organizations. So yes. Happy Pride to everyone. I mean, for Pride, we have gotten a lesbian wife named Sam. So that seems fitting.
Jenny: [laughing] Yay!
Kristin: Yay!
Jenny: Hey, we always knew Riley was a lesbian.
Kristin: [laughs] It's true!
Jenny: Canonically, it entered the story line very early on-
Kristin: Aww!
Jenny: In his arc.
Kristin: Very sweet. So why don't we head on over there to the episode? Unless you have anything else you'd like to add, Jenny.
Jenny: Never!
Kristin: Alright, here we go.
NOTES: [Buffering theme plays]
Jenny: Hello! And welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer! A podcast where we are watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, one by one, spoiler free, in tandem with Angel On Top. I am sweetheart of the pod, gentle, compassionate Riley supporter…uh…[Kristin laughs] father to Frank. And labrador to all, Jenny Owen Youngs!
Kristin: Wow. Wow. And I am Kristin Russo, disappointed that once again, you refuse to participate in the feud between us [Jenny laughs] and Angel On Top, our archnemeses-sees-sees.
Jenny: Sis-sis-sis-sees.
Kristin: This week, hey, we're live! We're live on the internets. You know, I had a thought, Jenny.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: You say spoiler-free, you know? But we're getting, like-
Jenny: Mmm!
Kristin: There's, like, less and less to spoil. When-
Jenny: There's a lot yet to come. There's a lot yet to come.
Kristin: [simultaneously] There's a lot yet to come, but like, finale episode, there's nothing we can spoil. So then, do we take it out?
Jenny: Uh, we could be preventing spoilers for Season 8.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Spoil the comics? Okay.
Jenny: [simultaneously] The comics. Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: Okay. Well, this week…shut up, Kristin. Get to the point. We're discussing Season 6, Episode 15, As You Were, a very special episode with a very special-two very special guests, if I do say so myself. [Jenny laughs] Stay tuned at the end of our podcast every other week for an original song, written sometimes by Jenny, sometimes by both of us, sometimes by me saying, [whispers] "Jenny, just change the lyrics to that other song." We'll see if she does it.
Jenny: [whispering] No, no, no, it's-[inaudible]
Kristin: [laughs] Recapping the Buffy episode we are discussing.
Jenny: As You Were! Was written and directed by Doug Petrie [pronounced pee-tree].
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: Or Petrie [pronounced pet-tree]. Who knows! And originally aired on February 26th, 2002.
Kristin: This is the one where Buffy's ex-I love the description, because it says, Buffy's ex, comma, Riley 'cause it's-[Jenny laughs] you know, the writer was like, well, Buffy does have multiple exes at this point, so we need to establish it-
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Buffy's ex, Riley, returns to Sunnydale but he is not alone. Together, they track a mysterious dealer who is selling demon eggs that could wipe out the entire city. Very dramatic.
Jenny: Oh, boy!
Kristin: It's very dramatic. This episode is [clears throat] very dramatic. I said to Jenny offline, when we were discussing it, that I couldn't quite figure out if this episode was done-like, was an attempt at melodrama, 'cause of the music cues and such. You know, like, it was supposed to be funny? Because it's so close to not-like, to serious that you're like, is this just really dramatic and for real? Or is this, like, a hilarious, like, melodrama spin?
Jenny: Hmmm.
Kristin: Do you have any thoughts, Jenny, since our last conversation? [laughs] Yes, somebody in the chat said, "dun-dun-dun!" Precisely.
Jenny: Yeah, exactly, exactly.
Kristin: Precisely.
Jenny: Well, I just wanted to check really quick to see what episodes Doug also wrote.
Kristin: Actually, Fool for Love is a Doug Petrie episode, if we say the last name properly.
Jenny: Fool for Love?
Kristin: Fool for Love. He's written some bang-some Spike bangers.
Jenny: Some Spike bangers and, uh, some Faith bangers. [both laugh] Bad Girls!
Kristin: Oh, all the bad kids bangers from Doug Petrie.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Perhaps that's why we get Riley with a scar. You know what I mean?
Jenny: Mmmm.
Kristin: He was like, come on, man! [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: There's actually-I didn't-
Jenny: Also, The Yoko Factor, AKA my boyfriend and my ex.
Kristin: Oh, wow. I wasn't gonna put this up at the top of the episode, but since you're wondering upon what other episodes he's written. Someone right before-and I'm so sorry, whoever you are, who sent me this email. It was, like, right before I was getting ready to do this taping-sent an article. It's, like, a LiveJournal, you know, article-what do you call it? Like, a blog post on LiveJournal that talks about this episode in a way that is mind boggling. I was not able to read the entire thing, but we'll link it in the show notes. And essentially, the opinion of this person-and it's, like, meticulous-is that this entire episode is actually, like, hinging on Machiavelli. And we'll get to, like, the fucking asswipe who talks about Machiavelli at Doublemeat. But that, like, Machiavelli is paraphrasing, like, this fucking dude who's like, I am the leader and a lot of you don't know what the fuck is right and left. And so even though I have to do morally ambiguous shit, I know what's best so I'm gonna do that shit, because I have to, like, lead you to the shit that is good. And so this entire LiveJournal-yeah, I am talking about LiveJournal, everyone-is positioning it, like, Riley came to Sunnydale to see Buffy, saw Buffy boning Spike outside the fucking house. And then fucking made up this whole-I mean, you really have to read the article 'cause the person is brilliant and I am not. But essentially, it's like, it turns the whole thing on its head. Like, why do we see Spike and Buffy up against the tree from this, like, far-away angle? Why are they having sex on the front lawn to begin with? Why, why, why. And it positions, like, Riley as this, like, Machiavelli who knows the greater good is to get Buffy to break up with Spike. And so-
Jenny: Ohh my god.
Kristin: Yeah, like, twist the whole egg thing and whatever. So, anyway. I did not intend to start us off with a LiveJournal reference, but you were talking about Doug and part of it is, like, how could Doug Petrie have written this episode? [Jenny laughs] Like, it's so not his normal episode. And so that's the spin. We'll link it. It's worth a read. I'm gonna finish it later today. But anyway, Jenny. Do you wanna talk about the show? You wanna make a podcast?
Jenny: Yeah. Well, you know that thing when you're at work [Kristin laughs] and-
Kristin: Sorry.
Jenny: Some dude is just burg-splaining at you?
Kristin: Oh, we're going there? We're not even doing Previously On? Fuck the Previously On.
Jenny: I forgot about the Previously Ons.
Kristin: Previously On is just, like, Riley. And then Spike, ooooh! [Jenny laughs] And then, like, marriage and then fast food. That's the Previously On.
Jenny: Okay, okay, cool.
Kristin: But yeah, get to the guy 'cause I have-I'm gonna play this-I don't know if you can guess what jingle I'm gonna play every time I see this guy, but…
Jenny: Ooh, I have an idea.
Kristin: Hmm.
NOTES: [THE PATRIARCHY jingle plays] The patriarchy! [thunder clap, evil laughter]
Kristin: No matter if-even if we become the most famous, richest Buffy podcasters in all the world, [laughs] I will always hold my phone up to the fucking microphone to play the jingles, [laughing] it's my favorite thing. [both laugh] Anyway. Yes, Jenny, there's an idiot.
Jenny: Yeah, he's just saying a whole bunch of goofy shit, as you know.
Kristin: He says, like-so I rewound it, like, three times because I'm pretty sure that he refers to the glass ceiling as something that he too should break through? The thing that really stuck out to me the most in this scene, not to make it too serious. But there's this, like, one-'cause most of this scene is just you being like, fuck this guy. Fuck this guy.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: But then he's like, I-you know, I'm going to night school. And there's this one beat of Buffy being like, "Night school?" before, like, the scene shifts and she's in the fucking cemetery. Obviously-like, she can't go to day school, she can't go to night school, she can't go to any school. So the heartbeat of this season is still going strong. Why the fuck is Buffy not paid?
Jenny: Yeah. Yes! He says… "If you could just give the gum under the tables a good scrape. That'd be great."
Kristin: [simultaneously] I'm gonna give something a good fucking scrape-[crosstalk]
Jenny: I bet you are. I bet you are!
Kristin: [exhales slowly] So. Oh, here's where-here's where Buffy is smelling like grease, singing a song, ho-humming to the job. You know what I mean? Like, I felt like this was a very-this is energy I could really identify with.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. [singing] Burgers! Doublemeat, la la la la la LA! [Kristin laughs] And then, a vampire pops up and he's all like, "Grah!" and she's like, "Ugh."
Kristin: Vegan vamp.
Jenny: Right, they fight and he almost bites her but then he is completely repulsed by the smell of the Doublemeat Palace.
Kristin: Which is incredible-
Jenny: [simultaneously] Coming off of her in waves, presumably!
Kristin: What's incredible is that he's repulsed by the smell of the burgers, but he's also like, "If you're ingesting that kind of food, then I don't wanna eat you anyway." [laughs] Like-
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: Dude is-
Jenny: He's like, pass.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Actually.
Kristin: He's healthy, you know? He's a keto vamp.
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: Organic, yeah. So then we hit the credits. And hey, we go to the Summers front yard, where Spike is not trying to hide, as he says, behind the tree. [laughs] Buffy says, "Oh, for Pete's sake, Spike!" Which is like-[both laugh] I feel like, just a really-like, in one line, really encapsulates where this relationship has gotten to, you know?
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Just like, I know you're fucking there. And then-yeah, then what happens, Jenny?
Jenny: Um…
Kristin: While you talk about what happens, I'm gonna take this fucking costume-just for the listeners at home, Jenny is wearing, allegedly, a turtleneck. And I am-I say allegedly for a reason. She'll tell you why. And I am wearing my Doublemeat Palace outfit, with the hat and everything. But I'm gonna take the hat and the shirt off to reveal my costume change-
Jenny: Oh my god!
Kristin: Now, because I'm hot. And now, this scene seems like a very good time for me to-
Jenny: Sure.
Kristin: Take off my clothes. So-
Jenny: It's only natural.
Kristin: Right, so you talk about the scene.
Jenny: So…Buffy's all like, "I have to take this dinner in to Dawn. I can't possibly get grass stains all over myself, rolling about on the ground out here with you, I must go in." But then, Spike pouts and Buffy's like, uh-oh. And then, Spike is maybe wearing a shiny shirt with a snakeskin pattern? Oh no! And even though that's true, they still have sex. He takes her by the hand and pulls her away from the front door and into the dark shadows of the front lawn, where they proceed to engage in…oh my gosh, somebody in the chat said "1080P H-tree!" [both laugh]
Kristin: It is!
Jenny: 1080P H-tree! That's right.
Kristin: 1080P H-tree. It's like, you get to say it, plus it doesn't count against your tally. This is-this is bonkers, is what this is. Just fucking on the front-it's not even like they live, like, in a roomy front yard. Like, they're not on a farm! They're not-they don't have a lot of space. The neighbors are right there.
Jenny: Yeah, this is a strange choice. Listeners. [laughs] Have you ever had sex outside? Uh…[both laughing] in clear-relatively clear view of your neighbors? If so, please write us an email at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin: [simultaneously] I mean, sex outside is-right, like, sex outside is one thing. Sex outside on a residential street, when it's, like, not-it's not even that late. Like, it's not like it's 3 AM and like, maybe everyone is asleep. This is risky. This is risky. Anyway, so they do it. And apparently they're on the tree for a little while, but they must move to the grass because Buffy enters with grass stains on her body. And a very-
Jenny: No, here's the thing.
Kristin: Mmm?
Jenny: She just walked through the cemetery. And he knows where she works. Like, why is he waiting at her house?
Kristin: You're basically rewriting the LiveJournal article that I referenced earlier, [Jenny laughs] because this is all there. It's like, why would this and why would that and why would this other thing?
Jenny: Wow, amazing.
Kristin: Mmhmm, yeah.
Jenny: Amazing!
Kristin: It takes all of the, like, nonsensical things about the episode and says, like, but what if they make sense? Which is why it's very smart. Okay. In addition to Buffy sleeping with Spike on the front lawn, smashing the burger that she brought home for Dawn-
Jenny: No!
Kristin: Who doesn't want it anyway. Dawn is gonna go to the Bronze! Cute.
Jenny: That is cute and I love it, but what's not cute? Dawn is sick of the Doublemeat Medley and Buffy tells her, in a way that is-like, her tone indicates that this is a positive thing. She says, "Tomorrow I'll bring you the Fisherman's Nuggets with cheese!" [shrieks with laughter] The fisherman's nuggets? With cheese. Is there some sick sect of the human population [Kristin laughs] that's out there, dipping, like, fish sticks or fish nuggets into a hot melted cheese?
Kristin: The nuggets take it to the next level. Like, not that I want a fish stick with cheese, but nuggets is a word. You know, like, that is a-
Jenny: [laughing] Yeah. Yeah.
Kristin: A word for fish. It's not me.
Jenny: Ugh!
Kristin: That person isn't me. I don't know if this is too much, but I was just thinking, like, oh, this podcast is, like, apparently very against fish nuggets, just like we are against milk. Which made me think about fish nuggets and milk in the same, like, moment, and I almost-I, like-I got ill.
Jenny: Ah, yes. A Happy Meal with fish nuggets-
Kristin: I'm sorry!
Jenny: Cheese dip and a little, uh, carton of milk.
Kristin: [laughs] Everyone-everyone's yelling at me. [Jenny laughs] Listen, I'm fucking sorry, okay? It's a live episode. You just get it off the cuff here and it-
Jenny: Oh, anything can happen!
Kristin: It happened to me so now it must happen to you. Okay. So…
Jenny: Okay, so, Dawn and Willow are going to the Bronze.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Just wanna point out that Willow's like, "What's up, working lady?" and it's like, Willow, you too could be a working lady. Um, just a thought.
Kristin: I mean, also, Dawn could do the dishes. That's later.
Jenny: That kitchen is a fucking…
Kristin: That kitchen is a fucking mess! Like-
Jenny: Nightmare.
Kristin: Even if nobody works, if you don't work, then at least fucking clean the goddamn house. Are you kidding me?! [takes deep breath]
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Kristin: Anyway. [laughs]
Jenny: Everybody's noticing that Buffy looks a little rumpled?
Kristin: [laughs] Yep, mmhmm.
Jenny: And she's asked if some vamp is getting rough with her. She says, "He's not getting any gentler." Hm!
Kristin: Willow's like, hmm? He? Hmm?
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, no.
Kristin: Buffy says, "No, they/them." A lot of people have written to us and been like, Buffy says nonbinary rights, for her they/them there-
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: So gonna shout that out. And then we go right to the Bronze, where-listen, before I rag on these guys for still being on the seating chart. Anya looks…fucking hot.
Jenny: Yeah, Anya looks so good in this scene. Way to go, Anya.
Kristin: Yeah. Her shirt, it's like, this high necked-it's like what a turtleneck should be, speaking of turtlenecks, you know?
Jenny: And speaking of turtlenecks, I'm now going to de-turtleneck-ify myself, because this is uncomfortable.
Kristin: [laughing] So-so what Jenny-for the listener at home, and for the viewers, really-Jenny informed me that the turtleneck is not actually a turtleneck. It's a black sweater with a black scarf wrapped around her neck, which you could not tell was not a turtleneck. So she has now de-scarfed.
Jenny: Oh my god. I looked everywhere for a turtleneck, but it's June!
Kristin: You say that, but I found a two-pack, so.
Jenny: I don't-I'm not talking to you.
Kristin: Some of us just know where to look, you know?
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: Okay.
Jenny: So-[laughs] Xander brought an entire huge family size bag of chips to the Bronze.
Kristin: Yeah. Xander and Anya right now are-they're one week away from their wedding. And chips is the name of the game. They would like to eat chips, they would like to argue about chips, they would like to travel with chips. They-chips is-that's their lifeline, in all ways. So they're crunching on some chips here. They're gonna be crunching on even-the car is upsetting. And he could throw out a couple of those bags, I think. But then we go-we sorta, like-Dawn walks in. She's like, how's the fucking almost newlyweds, or whatever? And then immediately, like, runs.
Jenny: [laughing] Not good!
Kristin: Not-we don't wanna hang out with these guys.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Not good! Run!
Kristin: And she goes over to Willow. And they both have Arnold Palmers, which is very cute. And she's basically like, how's the-how are they doing? And Dawn's like, ugh…and then Willow says something, and I'm gonna play a little sound clip for us, because it's one of my favorite things.
NOTES: [Clip from episode plays]
Dawn: Your Arnold Palmer, m'lady.
Willow: Thanks. So how are Mr. and Mrs. High Strung?
Dawn: I'm betting they explode.
Willow: You know, when I was little, I used to spend hours imagining what my wedding to Xander would be like. And now I look at them. And just think, meh-heh-heh!
NOTES: [Dawn laughs]
Kristin: Meh-heh-heh!
Jenny: Hell yeah!
Kristin: This is-like, last episode was Tara's best episode, I think. This episode has gotta rank up at the top for both Dawn and Willow. They have a fantastic-fantastic showing, all around. But yeah, and then they have, like, sort of a little moment where Willow is happy because she's reached the level of the break up where Tara would not hang up on her. And there's a wedding coming up, so maybe…maybe-
Jenny: Exciting stuff!
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Meanwhile, back in the Summers basement, Buffy is scrubbing away at the Spike grass stain of shame. [Kristin laughs] Listening to some sad music.
Kristin: Yeah, on a great boombox. I would love to have this boombox in my house, it's very cool.
Jenny: And then she wakes up on the sofa, under her coat, as the trash truck can be heard to be pulling away.
Kristin: So relatable.
Jenny: Buffy runs after the truck with the trash bags, but Buffy could easily throw those bags into the-
Kristin: [laughing] "Don't you want your trash?"
Jenny: Buffy, Buffy, Buffy.
Kristin: It's so cute. Yeah.
Jenny: Buffy, Buffy, Buffy.
Kristin: Listen, the point is, again, someone else should be remembering that it's trash day. This girl is working a job and saving the world. The least that the rest of the household can do is take out the trash and do the dishes. Okay?
Jenny: Agree.
Kristin: So we go to the kitchen and Dawn's there. Buffy has received a letter. And the letter is a bummer and tells her that she's not eligible for readmission to the college, because she missed the deadline. [laughs]
Jenny: No! Probably 'cause she was busy…running after the trash truck and slaying vampires and flipping burgers.
Kristin: Yes. And also, Jenny, I think you've noticed this as well 'cause I think we talked about it. But the fucking address on the letter is wrong? It says "1630 Crestview?" [laughing] Which…
Jenny: What?
Kristin: Yeah, it's like, we know her address is 1630 Revello. What happened here? Like, is this just, they were like, ehhh. [Jenny laughs] Or like, they were so deep into the series that they were like, everybody loves when we mess up. We'll put a little, like, egg in here and see if the fandom goes nuts?
Jenny: Ohh.
Kristin: Like, what happened? But, um, yeah. Then Dawn says, "Don't work too hard," and heads off to school.
Jenny: Oh, no. [Kristin laughs] Todd? Is that this boy's name?
Kristin: You know what his name is, Jenny?
NOTES: [THE PATRIARCHY jingle plays] The patriarchy! [thunder clap, evil laughter]
Jenny: Oh my god, Todd's going on and on about the zeitgeist. I miss Lorraine.
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah, where the fuck is Lorraine? Let me tell you who would not have hired this fucking asshole. Lorraine.
Jenny: Lorraine.
Kristin: Lorraine would never have. Do you think she already got fired? Moved on?
Jenny: I don't know! No, she wouldn't be fired. She-maybe she just got tran-she's just running around all of Southern California-
Kristin: [simultaneously] Mmm, all of the…
Jenny: Managing the openings and restructurings of various Doublemeat Palaces.
Kristin: Well, we're about to turn the corner from Patriarchy Todd to…
Jenny: [gasps]
Kristin: Our special guest star!
Jenny: Oh my god!
Kristin: Our special guest star. I-
Jenny: There at the register, nine feet tall, dressed in black head to toe. Uh, sporadically and inexplicably covered in leather, just in some parts. And with a-
Kristin: [laughing] It's like a bulletproof vest, but not at all bulletproof.
Jenny: But like, for a stripper? Like-
Kristin: [laughing] For-yeah.
Jenny: Doesn't it look kind of like a tear-away?
Kristin: It's like a tear-away or it protects you from, like, slip and slide splashing. It's like, a lick-the only thing that this would protect you from is, like, an accidental spill. So-
Jenny: Yeah, I mean-
Kristin: No one can say why he's wearing this thing.
Jenny: Huge air quotes around slip and slide. [both laugh]
Kristin: I, um, cannot-so let's just start with a big question here. Because I really am curious, and this is not something that you and I have talked about before right now, in front of all of these humans. You-your opinion-your position on Riley. It got blown out-right? We got-it got-
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: It got a little dramatic for the sake of, you know, [sings jaunty tune] [dramatically] Kristin hates Riley and wants him to die a gruesome death! And Jenny would love to make out with him and marry-well, you probably would like to make out with him. But really, absolutely, he's the best character on the whole series-
Jenny: Right, right, right.
Kristin: Kind of thing and like, that's not an actual representation of the dichotomy. Really, your opinion was that he certainly isn't the worst. Everyone hates him and he is not the worst. [laughs] Like, I think that's as far as your opinion went.
Jenny: Yeah. Well, I mean, I think that he is objectively-like, looking back from the end of the series-I think he is probably the most-[laughs] certainly the most age-appropriate boy [Kristin laughs] that she has any kind of long-term thing with. And also, I mean, I think that he has the best average of treating her well.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: And, like-
Kristin: Again, bar on the floor. Bar on the floor.
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah. And I mean, I think it's-I always just found it very interesting that people just, like, love to hate him so much. And I think his greatest crime is just kind of being the guy who came after Angel. You know? And you know, he's relatively…boring? Like, he's not dangerous. They kinda try to do, like, a little bit of tension with the Initiative. But he never reaches the heights of tension with Buffy the way that Angel did or Spike has.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: You know?
Kristin: But, so then-and I totally agree with all of that, though I just fall asleep. I just-
Jenny: Sure, sure, sure, sure.
Kristin: My head hits the desk. Though I would like to give a shoutout to, um…
Jenny: Nice. How many balls?
Kristin: To Riley's balls, you know? Just-
Jenny: Look, we love his balls. [laughs]
Kristin: For the listener at home, I have changed my Zoom background to Riley's balls. The tennis, whiffle, and golf. Cricket. Wow, what are all these balls, actually? Soccer. Baseball. My question for you, Jenny-
Jenny: Ha! Eight.
Kristin: [laughs] The 8-ball is featured. I'm gonna take the balls away. So myquestion for you, Jenny, is: I was just, like, ehh on Riley the whole time. Just like, annoy-like, bored, you know? Like, I didn't-I wasn't intrigued by it, I wasn't whatever. And I also thought that he did some really shitty things. Again, probably not as shitty as the others on the show.
Jenny: Uh-huh, uh-huh.
Kristin: But when I watched this episode, I longed for Season 4 Riley. Because this Riley is, to me, the worst Riley. And so I wonder if, like, you coming into this episode, you're like, yeah, not this-not this scar guy, but the other Riley.
Jenny: Yeah. I mean, the best thing this Riley has to offer is his wife. [Kristin laughs] I like his wife. [laughs]
Kristin: Me too. [laughs]
Jenny: He definitely has this sort of-I mean, I guess it's kind of the point of the episode. You know? But he has this sort of, like, from on high kind of vibe.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: You know?
Kristin: Like, he-
Jenny: Which I don't love.
Kristin: It's like the-and I'm not saying that, like, Riley doesn't love Sam, 'cause who couldn't love Sam? But it's like, he flew away in a helicopter, it was only a year ago. And he comes in very, like, I'm rough and tumble Riley now, right? Like, we see-we saw so notably that Riley would not drive that fucking car over the speed limit in Season 4. And now he's, like, speeding and like, now he has a scar. And-
Jenny: Honestly? Footage of Riley speeding still not found in this episode. [Kristin laughs] We'll get there. [laughs]
Kristin: But yeah, he just-he has-he was already a-he had, like, the seedlings of like, I'm-I know what I need to know and I can guide us 'cause I'm, like, this dude. But it, like, cemented in black ops or something. Or he doesn't act like this when he's not around her, and this is just, like, he's back with her and he's having all these feelings and it's making him act like a total tool.
Jenny: Mmm. Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: Either way, definitely my least favorite Riley episode. Apart from the addition of Sam-thank you for bringing us Sam. Thank you.
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah, yeah, yeah. No, I definitely agree with that, for the most part. He's not-we're not-like, you know, it's-the writers are no longer desperately trying to maybe get a few of us to, like, kind of like him. [laughs]
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: He's there to push Buffy forward.
Kristin: Yeah, yeah.
Jenny: Like. Narratively.
Kristin: And to fucking be sucked up into yet another helicopter. Imagine you were a character on a show where, like, your only entrances and exits were basically via helicopter.
Jenny: Incredible. Uh, he…was he always this tall? I think they've taken, like, the apple box out of the equation.
Kristin: I agree. I think this is, like, a little wink-wink, elbow-elbow-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: To even the, like, people making this show. Because they really evened out their heights in Season 4 with Buffy's little apple box. And I think-
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: [laughs] I think that's exactly where her line comes from. Which is-which is good. That's fun, that's funny.
Jenny: Riley's like, "I! Need! Your! Help!" and Buffy is downright monosyllabic. She says, "My hat has a cow." Neglecting to also include that her hat also has a chicken. On the back.
Kristin: [laughs] That's true. I think I've said it before, but I will say it again. This is "I carried a watermelon." This is that moment when-
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: You just wanna say the right thing, but you weren't ready.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: You were not prepared. You were not prepared to see this man again, and not only were you not prepared to see him again, but certainly not here at your job.
Jenny: No.
Kristin: Why, Riley? Why, man?
Jenny: Not at the DMP.
Kristin: Why-[both laugh] I was like, they're not at the DMV. Oh, the DMP, okay.
Jenny: P!
Kristin: They're not watching DMB. Oh, DMP, okay. [laughs]
Jenny: Oh my god. He needs the best. Can she help him? Buffy stares into the middle distance for a moment [Kristin snorts] and then tosses off her cow-chicken hat and abandons the Doublemeat Palace, perhaps forever?
Kristin: Buffy fully believes that she is in a full porn 1080P HD this entire episode. Like, full-everything she says and does is, like-and I will point them out to you, don't worry. I have evidence, I have my pile of evidence over here. But this is-you know, I've gotta rewatch Season 7 still. 'Cause I don't remember that much about it. I say that up till now, this is probably Buffy's horniest episode. Would you agree?
Jenny: She's got a lot…going on. There was that one episode where Xander did a love spell-
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: Where Buffy was pretty-[laughing] pretty horny!
Kristin: That's true-wait, is that the orgasm wall? Where she just has sex with Riley the whole time?
Jenny: Oh, no! That was another horny episode.
Kristin: [simultaneously] That one is-but she's, like, having sex in that one. Which-this one, she's just, like, desperately trying to figure out who she should have sex with. [Jenny laughs] And is considering everyone. [laughing] She's considering-
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: All possibilities. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah. Well, she does have sex in this one. Though, eventually.
Kristin: That's true.
Jenny: Okay. So-[Kristin laughs] Riley's like, "Listen, I wish I had a moment to tell you anything! [Kristin laughs] Anything about what the plan is! [laughing] Or why I'm here! Or what we're hunting! Or what you should do when we find the thing we're hunting! [Kristin laughs] But-man, I really hope we get the chance to just, like, talk about some very basic mission specifics and also maybe catch up. But we don't have any time right now! Wow, I've been talking for awhile while we slowly walk through the streets of Sunnydale." [laughs] Then he says, "We've been tear-assing," instead of-
Kristin: Yeah-
Jenny: "Tearing ass?" [laughs]
Kristin: I can't-like, I don't know if you can see-I don't know if you can see my notes. But…[Jenny laughs] I-I-I can't. Tear-assing. Tear-assing.
Jenny: Tear-assing.
Kristin: And you know what the thing is? This lends a little credit to, like, my theory that perhaps Riley is, like, not this much of a jerk-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: All the time. Is because he says "tear-assing" right after [laughing] Buffy is like, "Aww, you still use all your little James Bond gadgets!" [both laugh]
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: "That's so cute!" And he's like, "duh, we're tear-assing through the jungles of blah-blah-blah-"
Jenny: "Yeah!"
Kristin: Like, okay, man. Calm down. Calm down. [quietly] Tear-assing…
Jenny: He also is describing the Suvolte demons and he says, "They're breeders, Buffy." Now? During Pride month, Riley? Now?
Kristin: That was a joke-
Jenny: Rude!
Kristin: That was a joke Jenny wrote by candlelight, next to your bed. [both laugh]
Jenny: How dare you! [both laugh]
Kristin: So Buffy is like-hears the description of these guys and is like, so they're, like, really mean-this is fascinating to me. She's like, "They're like really mean tribbles." Tribbles are from a 1967 episode of Star Trek. They're like little hairballs that multiply very fast. They're very cute and very lovable, but probably population control is an issue. [laughs] I haven't seen the episode, but anyway. She then says, "ugh, we're dealing with this trio, so blah-blah-blah." So that-connecting the dots here, this means that part of Buffy's being the chosen one-the one girl chosen in all the world-means that she is now watching Star Trek to better understand her enemy?
Jenny: Ha-ha!
Kristin: Fascinating. Fascinating.
Jenny: This is kind of like you. This is your arc.
Kristin: [laughs] Me and Buffy definitely learned what tribbles were at the same point in time.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: In this journey, for sure. But yeah, oh my god, this scene. This fucking scene. I was, like, putting little purple dots on my notes next to things like, Kristin, you have to say these things-
Jenny: Mm.
Kristin: And when I got to this scene, I just, like, put a line down the whole thing [laughs] 'cause…then, uh, Jenny, you should probably talk about what happens next.
Jenny: Well. Uh. Surprise! Here's a demon. The demon-the design of this demon is so interesting. It's sort of like…no neck. Kinda like-just like-yeah, the way that-Kristin is kind of doing, like, Thriller arms, but like, up over her head-
Kristin: Up above.
Jenny: And kind of like, wah-wah-wah-wah.
Kristin: And like, sucking my head back into itself.
Jenny: Boom-bom. Yeah.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: It kinda looks like-did you ever see that 90s cartoon, Street Sharks!
Kristin: No.
Jenny: It's about some, like, [dramatically] genetically modified shark brothers! [Kristin laughs] Who fight crime and, like, wear high-top sneakers and they've got, like, huge muscles but like, shark heads! And it's wild! [laughs] I don't know if they were design-if the cartoon came first or the fruit snacks came first.
Kristin: Ooh!
Jenny: But anyway, this demon kinda reminds me of the general silhouette of a Street Shark. [laughs]
Kristin: I love it, it's ridiculous. It's ridiculous.
Jenny: It's…oh my god. It's also kind of reminding me of the frigging Great Big Snake. Now that I think about it.
Kristin: You know what? I think this is better than the Great Big Snake, to be honest with you.
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: I prefer the Suvolte over the Great Big Snake. Riley screams out-[laughs]
Jenny: Ha-ha! [cackles]
Kristin: "National forestry service, we've got a wild bear!" What? [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah. Well, you know, these people, their adrenaline is pumping. They're seeing something huge and scary, but you know, the-the way that people have selective memory in Sunnydale, California. I think this is the perfect thing to say to them-
Kristin: I guess, it's just-
Jenny: To make them A) get away fast-
Kristin: Okay, that I'll give you. But also, like-
Jenny: And B) like, it was dark. It was a big, scary thing. I saw a lot of teeth and then I ran.
Kristin: But it's Sunnydale. These people know exactly how to take a monster and make it into a bear. Nobody has ever told them they had to do that before. They know, you know?
Jenny: [laughing] Okay. Okay.
Kristin: Anyway. Then-like, just when-
Jenny: No, I feel like Riley was doing the same shit when he was in the Initiative.
Kristin: That's true, that's true. It's his, like, army moves. Then, just when you think the scene is maybe over, and like, you're like, wow, a lot of shit just happened. [Jenny laughing] I've taken all-caps notes for, like, five minutes. They, like…[both laugh] I can't-I'm imagining it so vividly. They round the bend and they see the Suvolte demon. [laughing] And the Suvolte demon, like, jump-flies over the building. [Jenny cackles] It is the fucking-it's the funniest thing I've ever seen in my goddamn life.
Jenny: Dude.
Kristin: It's like what Angel used to do-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: When he was, like, wanting to show off and he would, like-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Whip his leather coat behind him, [laughing] but it's this giant demon.
Jenny: Yeah. That Suvolte demon was like, I know the risk [Kristin laughs] but I have to know her. [laughs] Zoop!
Kristin: Literal zoop. It is an actual zoop.
Jenny: Dude-
Kristin: The word zoop was made for this move that the Suvolte does. [laughs]
Jenny: And then Buffy is like, "We'll never catch it, it's too fast." And Riley's like, "I wouldn't say that." Hard cut to them driving the speed limit [Kristin laughs] in a black Jeep-type vehicle, going a totally normal speed. But everything about what's going on-
Kristin: [simultaneously] I don't know. I feel like the vehicle-
Jenny: Is trying to tell us that they're going real fast!
Kristin: The vehicle kinda peels around the corner a little-a little bit more than I would have expected. I took a note. I said, is Riley, dot-dot-dot, speeding? [Jenny laughs] They got me, so.
Jenny: So then they're in the car and Riley's like, "Wow, I've got some big stories for you. I'd love to tell you. If we ever get half a second, man, I'd love to just, like, tell you what's been going on with me. And maybe also again, once again, it would be cool if I filled you in on some mission specifics. [Kristin laughs] But maybe we'll have time for that later, after the mission is over, I don't know. Does that seem okay?" They're driving across town, but there's no time!
Kristin: Oh my god. And then Buffy's like, "Do you have dental?" He's like, "Yeah, fully taken care of." Literally every person on this earth who fights monsters is fully taken care of except for you.
Jenny: Except for Buffy. Pay! Buffy! Summers!
Kristin: Pay her.
Jenny: Also.
Kristin: Retroactively.
Jenny: Yeah. Also, he's like, "You know, I've got all these stories. Oh, so many wild times have happened since last I saw you." And Buffy's like, "Oh yeah, me too. Um. Did you die?" [both laugh]
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And he's like, "No." And she's like, [clicks tongue] "I'm gonna win."
Kristin: She is gonna win. In all senses of the word.
Jenny: And then-[Kristin sighs] do you know what Riley says? [laughs]
Kristin: I have jingle-I have a jingle I never get to play ready for this shit. So you tell everybody what Riley says and then I'm gonna play the jingle.
Jenny: He gives Buffy a little…black ops outfit, state of the art, Kevlar, super light, very strong. And Buffy's like, oh my god! And Riley's like…[both laugh]
Kristin: They just-from the perspective of Riley? This is what Riley is seeing. Yeah. [laughs]
Jenny: [laughing] Yeah, yeah. Then Riley's like, [clicks tongue] "Boys like toys."
NOTES: [GO AWAY RILEY jingle plays] Riley, you are kind of a cardboard Your mansplaining's best to be ignored No one cares you're our TA so please Please go away
Jenny: Well, it's moments like this and jingles like that that make me yearn for the days back when Riley's number one defining characteristic was that-
Kristin: [simultaneously, delighted] A TA!
Jenny: He kept telling everyone he was a TA. [laughs]
Kristin: I know. When I-when I heard-when I listened to the jingle, I was like, oh my god. Like, the core of this is that he's a TA. Also, just in case you-
Jenny: This isn't even a toy! It's an outfit!
Kristin: Yeah, he-it's just the worst. It's the worst Riley episode and that is saying a lot. Did ask Marc Blucas if he wanted to pop on over and be a part of this episode, and luckily, he was busy. Because otherwise who knows how we would have gotten through it?
Jenny: Mm, mmhmm.
Kristin: I would have been like, anyways, [stammering] really great! Yeah, it's just-it's good. [both laugh] But yeah. So happy to be able to play the Riley jingle. Just so you know, that's me singing it, in case you missed that.
Jenny: Congrats.
Kristin: Mm, yeah, Jenny sings-
Jenny: Congrats!
Kristin: Jenny sings all of the jingles except for one. The Riley jingle. Okay. [Jenny laughs] "It's really good to see you. Love the hair." [Jenny groans] I'm gonna punch-literally, I'm punching all the men. Punching all of them in this episode. [Jenny groans] We go from one car to another. [chanting quickly] Chips, chips, chips, chips, chips, chips, chips, chips!
Jenny: [rhythmically] Chips-chips, chips, chips.
Kristin: These two are on their way to the Santa Barbara airport, I guess? It looks like they're on their way to LAX, to be quite real. But-
Jenny: Yeah, that's bad traffic, whew!
Kristin: They're going to pick up Uncle Rory and they're very stressed out. And I think the key line-I don't know if you agree, Jenny-but Xander's line about family is quite nice and on the nose. [laughs] He's like-
Jenny: Xander say-oh.
Kristin: Yeah, go ahead.
Jenny: Okay, yeah, I loved it. That's why-I wrote it down word for word, 'cause I loved it so much. Xander says, "I hate my uncle. I hate my whole family. That's why I'm marrying you, to start a new family. Have children, make them hate us. Then one day they'll get married and we'll sleep on their couch. It's the circle of life." Aw!
Kristin: He's not wrong. He's not wrong. It's cute.
Jenny: I love it.
Kristin: Yeah, it's really cute.
Jenny: For some reason. [laughs]
Kristin: I have a couple more things to say about these two when we get to the bathroom. But first, we go to what I have called in my notes, Pipe's Town. [Jenny laughs] For the viewers at home, let me show you what this looks like. Where the fuck are-
Jenny: Hell yeah.
Kristin: Where's that shit?
Jenny: Nice shit.
Kristin: Where's that shit? Pipe's Town.
Jenny: It's the reservoir or something. Don't worry about it.
Kristin: Okay. [both laugh] So my first note is: Riley's fucking gloves.
Jenny: Yes, the gloves are so stupid. But I realized on my watch today that they serve a very important, practical purpose. Which is that they give a reason for Buffy to not clock a wedding ring on Riley's hand while they are hanging out and she's thinking they're on a demon date.
Kristin: Wow, that's smart. That's smart, Jenny. It's almost like you're good at this podcast or something. [pause] I literally thought you froze-
Jenny: [simultaneously] Thank you. [laughs]
Kristin: But you were just slowly basking in my compliment. [laughs]
Jenny: That's right! I was just soaking it up. I was like, mm-
Kristin: [laughing] Exact-
Jenny: Can't help but have noticed a whole bunch of things about Riley's hands while I was watching this episode. [laughs]
Kristin: So-okay, so. They're on, like, the ledge of this Pipe's Town place. There's, like, water flowing, it's a reservoir according to Jenny Owen Youngs. And he's like, "I've just got one rope. We have to go together. If we put our bags down, it will register us as one human being." And then he says, "Hold onto me," and she's like-this is when Buffy is, like, fully convinced she's in a porn. She's in a pornographic film.
Jenny: [laughing] Yeah!
Kristin: I mean, right?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: "Hold onto me!" "If that's what it takes." [both laugh] Like, it's just-it's very intense. I will call out all of the moments.
Jenny: [simultaneously] And then down they go, into the abyss. My, that's-
Kristin: [simultaneously] Well, no, no.
Jenny: No?
Kristin: Because she says-I'm sorry, but I have to hit every important point. She says, "If that's what it takes-"
Jenny: [simultaneously, laughing] Yeah.
Kristin: And then before they go down, she says, "Wow. Ready when you are, Agent Finn." [laughs]
Jenny: Oh my god. My, what a deep reservoir you have! [both laugh] Down they go!
Kristin: Ooh, it's all wet in this reservoir! [Jenny laughs] Oh no!
Jenny: Oh yeah, so damp down here.
Kristin: Damp. [laughs]
Jenny: [laughing] This moist-
Kristin: [sarcastically] That's the sexiest word I've ever heard, so. [both laugh] So they repel down to the thing and they're, like, fighting the fucking Suvolte guy, who's like, [sings jaunty tune]. And then-
Jenny: [laughs] I'm sorry, how does the Suvolte go?
Kristin: [sings jaunty tune]
Jenny: Okay. [laughs]
Kristin: And then-and then, Riley, like-in the middle of the fight, he's like-gets Buffy on the wall. And she's like, it's all happening. We're gonna make out. And then! This is where I think that this is supposed to be com-this has to be intended as comedy. There's no way that anyone thought that Sam repelling down and being like, "What exactly are you doing with my husband?" [Jenny laughs] was going to be a thing we could take seriously, 'cause it's so funny.
Jenny: Yeah. Correct.
Kristin: [sighs] Sam's hot.
Jenny: Sam is hot.
Kristin: Riley's like, "Buffy. Sam. Sam, Buffy." And Sam is like, "Demon? Mine." The first, in my opinion, very queer thing she does, of many. I will note all of those as well.
Jenny: I find the "Mine," like, while looking over the shoulder to be kind of, like, the one uncool thing Sam does.
Kristin: [laughs] Okay.
Jenny: Just one podcaster's opinion.
Kristin: I love-what I love about this, for you, is that it became instantly clear that for you, anything that was queer was cool. You know what I mean? Which I'm-[Jenny laughs] You were like, it's uncool, therefore. [both laugh] The math here is if it's uncool, it cannot be queer. I can get behind that. So Sam is, like, singlehandedly battling this demon, while Buffy and fucking Riley just chitchat. You know. He's like, "My wife is so tough, I don't even have to help her." He does, 'cause Buffy and Riley were fighting this fucking thing, so whatever.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Sam has boob holes in her gloves. That's what I wanted to say.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: She has a boob window. But it's a wrist window. A knuckle window?
Jenny: [simultaneously] In a glo-okay.
Kristin: Both.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: Buffy kills the Suvolte demon.
Jenny: Wait, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. [laughs]
Kristin: Oh, I'm so sorry.
Jenny: Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Sam is fighting the Suvolte and Riley and Buffy finally have time to catch up and have a conversation, while Sam is fighting the Suvolte demon. And Buffy's like, oh, wow, that's so great, wow, how long have you been married? And Riley's like, "Four months." And [laughing] Buffy's like, "Any children?" and Riley's like, "I really was gonna tell you, when the time was right. Wuh!" Et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
Kristin: So ridiculous. This-the whole thing.
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Then as you say, Buffy kills the Suvolte.
Kristin: And Riley's like-
Jenny: But you know what? Buffy's, like, done with this conversation.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: So she's like, "I'm gonna kill this thing to get the fuck out of here-"
Kristin: Yeah, yeah.
Jenny: "'Cause I can't be any more a part of this."
Kristin: A thousand percent. And Riley looks at her and he's like-I mean, he really has a moment of being like, how could you have done that? Like, that is, to me, the worst part of the whole situation-
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: Is that the only one from this moment forward who defends Buffy's actions is Sam. [laughs] Sam's like, "hey, dingdong! Captain Can-Do over here probably didn't fucking tell you what the mission was, but this is what it is. It's not your fault." She tells Buffy that it wasn't her fault, like, many times, multiple times.
Jenny: [sarcastically] Kristin, you don't understand. There was just not a single opportunity-
Kristin: [simultaneously] Just no time.
Jenny: When Riley could have told Buffy [Kristin laughs] not to kill the Suvolte demon. There was simply no opportunity!
Kristin: No time. None whatsoever.
Jenny: [sighs]
Kristin: So then, whatever, we get this, "Stand down, soldier." "Is he your boss?" "He wishes" moment. And Sam is like, "Buffy, do you have a safehouse?" Which at first I thought was funny. [Jenny laughs] And then on my second viewing, I was like, why doesn't she? Why doesn't she have a fucking safehouse?
Jenny: 'Cause she doesn't even get paid! How is she gonna afford a safehouse?
Kristin: [simultaneously] Yeah, but like, this-this is ridiculous. This girl has one house to go to. Everybody knows where the Slayer lives.
Jenny: It's true.
Kristin: Everyone! The only demons that can be kept out of her house are vampires. There's a bajillion other kinds of demons. Why does this girl not have a fucking safehouse? [sighs]
Jenny: I don't know.
Kristin: Alright, well.
Jenny: But she does say, "I think it's safe. Sometimes you can't even leave." [both laugh]
Kristin: She's like, LOL, referencing the last episode, the audience loves it. [both laugh]
Jenny: High fives self. [both laugh]
Kristin: So we go to the Summers house, where we begin to go on our journey of Willow and Dawn being perfect, in my humble opinion.
Jenny: Yo. So…
Kristin: Dawn is so fucking-oh, she's so mad.
Jenny: The saltiest of all possible Dawns!
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: She's so mad at Riley for leaving!
Kristin: Oh, that mystical Key? They dunked it in water and dropped it into a bowl of salt, she is so salty.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: And he's like, "You grew a foot and a half." And she's like, "A lot can happen in a year." She looks-[Jenny laughs] Dawn looks fucking fantastic. Like, Dawn has, like, straightened her hair and she's got fucking-an attitude. Somebody said in the live watch last night, she's bringing major Cordelia vibes, which I'm into. She's not having it, and I am having her not having it. I love it. It also, like-before we get to me screaming about Xander and Riley, which we're about to get to. This whole scene, like, the first time I rewatched it, I was like, are they not gonna ta-like, Amy the rat came back. And Amy was like, I'm so sorry about your mom. Amy the rat! Riley, her boyfriend, who-
Jenny: Oh, yeah, this is a very good point.
Kristin: He was, like, literally in the hospital, there with her, while this was happening. Her mother died. He-it's not even a fucking conversation point. How? Why?
Jenny: [through gritted teeth] Riley!
Kristin: [laughs] I just-like, it doesn't even-like, it would be easy to just blame it all on Riley. But some of this is just, like, confused-I'm confused with the writing. You know, like, we couldn't have a beat here for, like, "I'm sorry about your mom"? We couldn't have a beat?
Jenny: Yeah. Like, "Where is Joyce?" [laughs]
Kristin: Right. Exactly. How is your-
Jenny: Where's Giles? [laughs]
Kristin: Right! Where is anybody-like, literally-mmm. It's not-it's not the best-written episode. But I think that we have the most fun with some of the worst-written episodes. This makes me think of when we did our live taping of Beer Bad, and we just had a blast, you know?
Jenny: [laughs] I love Beer Bad.
Kristin: It's so fun! Yeah.
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: Alright.
Jenny: So…Willow's, like, prepared to hate Sam, however Buffy needs her to hate Sam-
Kristin: So good.
Jenny: Big BFF energy. But uh-oh! Everyone's plans are going to be thwarted, starting right now. Because, you know, Riley is explaining some Suvolte stuff and then he's like, "Oh, maybe Dawn should go in the other room." And Sam's like, "whoa, whoa, Dawn looks all grown up to me." Winning some huge Dawn points.
Kristin: And then is like, "As long as it's okay with Buffy."
Jenny: Winning some, probably reluctant, Buffy points.
Kristin: Sam, just whacking every mole. Whacking every mole there is to be whacked-
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: In this scene.
Jenny: We find out that the Suvolte came to Sunnydale to spawn! Nice. It's like spring break for Suvoltes. [both laugh] And-
Kristin: Suvoltes gone wild! [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah. And-
Kristin: Oh my god, imagine a Suvolte in a little bikini top. [both laugh] Okay-
Jenny: Like, what? I feel like its head slash shoulders and no-neck would prevent a strap finding purchase of any kind.
Kristin: It would need to go with the cross.
Jenny: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: Go around the neck, the-yeah.
Jenny: Is that a halter?
Kristin: Halter. [laughs] Wow!
Jenny: Okay, so. Buffy makes a "Trouble Meat Palace" bit of wordplay.
Kristin: Follow up to "I carried a watermelon."
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: I carried another watermelon.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: She makes a Trouble Meat Palace joke. It doesn't go over well. And Xander, meanwhile, is like…I posted a GIF before on our Twitter account, which I think sums it up. Like, if you have Riley and Xander and you just have, like, a still of them in the room, you could just play, [singing] "The boys are back in town!"
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Right?
NOTES: ["The Boys Are Back in Town" by Thin Lizzy plays] The boys are back in town (The boys are back in town) I said the boys are back in town (The boys are back in town)
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: They are, like, so stoked. They're like, "yeah, man, I got married. You love it, blah blah. How do you have a wedding? What do we do? Bleh, bleh!" [Jenny laughs] Just kiss!
Jenny: Just kiss, guys. Xander is like, "oh my god, it's-I know that there are demons spawning in Sunnydale or whatever. But look, should I spring for the photographer or the place settings? I can only afford one." And Sam is like-
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Hey, buddy, just get some disposable cameras, put them at every table. Let everybody snap photos all night and then you get the pictures at the end of the night. Bing, bang, boom, two for the price of one. Sam collects some Xander points for the board.
Kristin: Yeah. Sam has collected everyone's points by the end of-
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: This episode. And to that end, she says to Willow-Riley must have told her that, like, Willow is a very powerful witch and she can do really incredible magic and yadda-yadda. So Sam is like, "Willow, if you could do a spell, that would be fantastic." Who knows what kinda spell? We've seen a lot. She could probably do a locating spell. Like, a locator spell.
Jenny: I think she specifically says a locator spell.
Kristin: Oh, does she? [laughs]
Jenny: I think that is the request.
Kristin: Very like me to hear a thing, forget I heard it, and think that it's my own idea. [Jenny laughs] "She should do a locator spell!" And Willow is, you know, set to the mode of, like, "I am going to hate this girl because she is married to my best friend's ex." And so she immediately is like, fuck you, I can't do magic, and she goes into the kitchen.
Jenny: She also says, "I got addicted, the way addicts do." [Kristin laughs] Which seems like a very interesting writing choice?
Kristin: Yeah, it's weird. But I-that's true. I just chalked it up to, like, not knowing what to say, but wanting to be like, "fuck you." You know? And just, like-
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: Something mean and, like, that's all she came up with? But yeah, I agree. So then Sam-like, doing something that we have probably seen no one-we've definitely seen no one do it. Although I could imagine that Tara has taken this stance with Willow-goes into the kitchen and is like, "Hey. I really stepped in it." It's, like, such a sweet fucking thing, such a sweet way to say it. And she's like, "I just wanna let you know that, like, in our travels, we have met with shamans and what have you who have also gotten addicted to magic. And they were not able to do what you're doing. You should be really proud of the strength that you have and, like, all that you've accomplished and all that you've done." It's so loving, and so supportive, and so about Willow. Like, maybe that's what it is-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Is like, Sam just isn't carrying a lot of trauma and is able to just, like, make this moment about Willow and only Willow and we don't see that often. But it's so good. [laughing] So Willow, of course, is like, oh no. [laughs] I'm supposed to hate you and I already like you.
Jenny: Yeah. Yep, resolve crumbling.
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah. Now we have our story. Suvolte, eggs, mission. Yadda-yadda.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: It was a homing mission, but Riley just failed to mention it. So now the demon's dead, there's no way to find the eggs.
Jenny: And there's a dealer in Sunnydale called…the Doctor.
Kristin: [laughs] We should really-
Jenny: Write that in your Shanshu prophecies.
Kristin: Yeah, you're gonna have to write that down 'cause we might never hear it again. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah. [both laugh]
Kristin: So they're like, split up, we're gonna split up. Riley's like, "I'm gonna go to fucking Willy's bar and some other places and gather intel. And Sam and Buffy, you should go together to see if you can find the eggs."
Jenny: I just…why?
Kristin: Don't-it doesn't make any sense.
Jenny: Do you know why?
Kristin: Well, I do-I actually know why. I do actually know why. The reason is that we have not gotten to see Buffy stroll through the cemetery with a leather-clad lady who might wanna kiss her in, like, three seasons. And I was-I was hard up for it, you know what I mean? I needed it. When the two of them, Sam and Buffy, walk through the cemetery, all I saw was Faith and Buffy walking through the cemetery. And on top of it all, like, you know, back in the days of Faith, the energy was very much like, hey, B. Like, you gotta be cool, you gotta be bad, you gotta do this shit this way, da-da-da-da-da. But instead, the turns have tabled and Sam is like, "You are-I can't even believe that I'm in the cemetery with the Slayer." [Jenny laughs] She's like, fully-she's, like, the biggest fan. And then-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: She calls Buffy "legendary."
Jenny: [gasps] Kristin. Did you know that-did you know that you said that the turns have tabled?
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Oh.
Kristin: From The Office. [laughs]
Jenny: Oh, okay. So you said it on purpose.
Kristin: I did.
Jenny: Cool. [Kristin laughs] Well.
Kristin: But thanks for being on it, you know?
Jenny: Yeah, of course. [Kristin laughs] So…yeah. Sam is all about it.
Kristin: Sam is feeling good. She's like, wow, I thought life only had to be Wonderbread. But it turns out…
Jenny: [laughs] There are other things on the menu.
Kristin: There are.
Jenny: Oh my god, she tells Buffy about getting together with Riley. Buffy's like, "He thinks I let him go." Sam's like, "Do you wish you hadn't?" Buffy's like, "I wish things were different." Sam's like, "There's no bad guys in this one." And Buffy's like, "There don't have to be any guys at all in this one." [Kristin laughs] And Sam's like, "Okay!" [laughs]
Kristin: "But if you wanna bring him, you can!" [both laugh]
Jenny: Oh no. And then, like, Sam, trying to be a nice person, is just like, "So are you seeing anybody now? Anybody special?" and Buffy's, like, sputtering. And then she's like, oh, definitely, like, uh, better to be with no guy than the wrong guy. And Buffy's like, "I think we should split up!"
Kristin: I love-I love Sam! Like, I love Sam so deeply. She's such a good character. This actress is incredible. She's incredible, because we get her for a minute! We get her for-there are characters who have been on this show for full seasons that I'm like, hm? One minute!
Jenny: [laughing] Yeah, there's one character in particular that I can think of that was on for a season and a half and we're like, hm?
Kristin: [laughs] Well, I'm also thinking about-listen, I'm deep into Angel On Top territory in my brain. So I'm thinking about old fucking Tina/Justine. I can't. These are-this character was here for one fucking minute, and I love her! So. Let us not leave this scene without-so Buffy-right, like you said. Buffy is like, I need to-I need to get outta here. I can't. I can't fucking deal with this shit. And-
Jenny: [laughing] And then!
Kristin: She's like, I-there's an informant. It's not you-it's not you, it's me. There's an informant and he's kinda twitchy and you shouldn't come with me.
Jenny: And then-[laughs] and then Sam's like, "Yeah! Finn probably needs me right about now. He's probably off somewhere getting his ass kicked. [laughs] You know how wild he gets!"
Kristin: There you go. Can you do the-can you do the move she does on her chin?
Jenny: What does she do?
Kristin: Ohh! This is the moment I knew she was queer. You know what I mean? Like, 'cause she goes-she basically is like, "Heh, you know how wild he gets." And she, like-
Jenny: Oh my god, yeah.
Kristin: She does, like, that like-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: I mean, you can't-you literally-I can barely do it. And I am queer.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: You have to be, like, 100% the queerest to be able to do that move, and she nails it. [Jenny laughs] [exhales] It's good. Alright, so meanwhile-so, you know, Sam's a top, and then we cut to our bottom. Spike is reading peacefully in his little lair. He's reading his little book, just waiting for his lover to come over and top him. And here she is.
Jenny: What is he read-this crypt literature. What is he reading?
Kristin: I couldn't see it. I couldn't see it. So I don't know what he's reading, but I'm also rewatching Lost right now, so I imagined it was Watership Down. [laughs]
Jenny: Why not?
Kristin: 'Cause that's what Sawyer is reading. They seem pretty aligned.
Jenny: Yep, yep.
Kristin: So, um. This is sad. I don't like what happens here, this is a bummer. This is, like…we've known that, like, part of Buffy's motivation for sleeping with Spike has been, like, to feel something and also to not feel the things that she doesn't wanna feel. So it's not like this is new information, but it is so on the nose in this moment where she's, like, leaving this moment of seeing Riley, of knowing Riley's around, of knowing Riley's married, of hearing about their marriage, of like, the wife being fucking perfect and great and awesome. And she walks into Spike's lair and she says, "Tell me you love me. Tell me you want me." And it's rough. It's rough.
Jenny: Ughhh! But what helps me-
Kristin: [simultaneously] And this is the only fun episode we have left! [both laugh]
Jenny: What helps me in this moment is that-did you happen to notice that Spike has a throw pillow with little stars on it and satin rope edging?
Kristin: [laughs] I didn't.
Jenny: Yeah. That's right.
Kristin: But that's great. He's really cleaned up the joint, you know?
Jenny: Yeah, yeah. Not for long.
Kristin: So, they fuck. And like, immediately, Riley walks in. [laughs] And immediately-
Jenny: Well, who knows how immediately, 'cause they've fallen asleep. Because before, there was a huge time crunch-
Kristin: That's true.
Jenny: But now, there's, you know, scheduled naps.
Kristin: [laughs] So Spike is like, "Delicious." Instantly, he's like, super stoked, both about the fact that he gets to show Riley his vampire penis. [Jenny laughs] And the fact that Riley knows [laughing] he's sleeping with Buffy.
Jenny: Wow!
Kristin: Credit to James-so we've heard this line before, when Riley was around full time. "The girl needs a little monster in her man." That's the-no, just a straight sentence. Credit to either the-either Doug or James, whoever made the call, to change this line with one comma. [laughs] He says, "Girl just needs a little monster in her, man." Wow!
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: Yeah. I will also say-like, I didn't get to say it before. I think 'cause I was taking my clothes off. [laughs] But the-when they're out and having sex against the tree, Spike says, "Maybe it's time for you to come outside," which I also think is a line that was, like, very intentionally-
Jenny: Uh-huh!
Kristin: [laughing] Said in a particular way. So…
Jenny: [singsong] Mmhmm!
Kristin: We have left The WB, everybody. We have left it! Get your loop. Things just-
Jenny: [whispering, laughing] "Get your loop."
Kristin: Things just continue to get sexier, because now is the moment in which-
Jenny: Uh-oh!
Kristin: Riley…[laughs] Riley, taking a cue from Buffy, is like, oh, so we're in a…we're filming a porno right now? [Jenny laughs] Filming a pornographic film? "Not why I'm here, Doctor." [both laugh] He says "doctor" one thousand times.
Jenny: Oh, boy. He says, "Where are the eggs, Spike?" and punches Spike in the face. And then Buffy says, "It can't be Spike," and Spike's like, "No need to defend me, love!" And Buffy punches him in the face also. And she's like, "No, it can't be Spike, he's too incompetant." [laughs]
Kristin: Rude! So rude!
Jenny: Riley is determined to-
Kristin: Ah, I'm sorry. Are you gonna just skip over where Spike fully takes the blanket off of his body and, like, spreads his legs? [Jenny laughs] And is just like, what's up, man? How are you doing? [both laugh] So Riley calls him "Doctor" again. Second time-
Jenny: Uh-huh, uh-huh, uh-huh.
Kristin: For those of you keeping track. And I think that you're about to get to a sound clip I was gonna play, Jenny. I think. I think. What were you gonna say?
Jenny: Riley is determined to violate Spike's privacy. And he's like, "I'm gonna turn this place upside down!" And Spike says, "Over my dead body." And Riley says, "I've seen enough of your dead body for one night, thanks!"
Kristin: [laughing] Spike's like, "This is unconstitutional!"
Jenny: Yeah! [both laugh]
Kristin: Not sure about that, buddy. So-
Jenny: Well. Show me a warrant, Riley.
Kristin: Yeah. So then, Buffy is like, "Enough with the games, Spike," and punches him in the fucking nose. Spike has a bloody nose. And I'm going to play…what Spike says, 'cause it's sad.
NOTES: [Clip from episode plays]
Spike: Well, that's bloody funny, coming from you! No more games? That's all you've ever done is play me. And you keep playing with the rules you make up as you like. You know what I am. You've always known. And you come to me all the same.
Riley: Can you shut him up?
Buffy: Not so far.
Kristin: So…he's right. Spike's right. You know, and she knows it. I mean, we'll get there, at the end of the episode.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: But-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: It's so rough, because Spike-especially-I'm jumping ahead, because we all know what happens here. But like, there's a moment in the final scene where Spike is like, "Okay but it's fine, it's fine." And I don't know if everyone has been in this position, but I think many people have been in this position, of like, you want and love somebody so much and you know that it's not the best thing for you. And so you're like, this isn't good for me, this isn't good for me, this isn't good for me. And then they're like, you're right, this isn't good for you. And you're like, no, no, no, no, no, no. Just kidding, I'm just kidding, I'm just kidding. [Jenny laughs] And like, it's really heartbreaking because he knows that she's playing games with him. But if he was given the choice, he would choose to have Buffy play games with him over having no Buffy at all.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: That's rough.
Jenny: It's not great.
Kristin: Luckily, there's baby bugs that are gonna hatch from what I referred to last night as-
Jenny: Hey.
Kristin: Worse eggs. We have Bad Eggs…
Jenny: [laughing] Worse eggs! Amazing.
Kristin: These are worse eggs. Have we-the series is not over. We may get worst eggs yet. But these are worse. [laughs]
Jenny: It's true. These baby Suvoltes are kind of cute, and they are puppeteered by someone from the-from Jim Henson's Workshop.
Kristin: Oh! That's exciting. I did not find them cute, but I do find Jim Henson's entire operation great. So that's good. [Jenny laughs] So Buffy makes, I think, a good decision for everyone but Spike, and takes a-what do you call those things? Hand grenade-and throws it down into the bottom of the lair. Blows up the place, killing all of the baby bugs. And-
Jenny: Ohh. Ugh, and Spike's nice apartment.
Kristin: Ruining Spike's apartment. All those rugs! You know?
Jenny: So many rugs!
Kristin: So Spike's lair is exploded and we go to…Xander and Anya's bathroom. It's such a nice bathroom. Isn't it?
Jenny: Ye-seems fine. Maybe I didn't catch all the detai-you have become intimately [laughs] entrenched in the minute details of bathroomery.
Kristin: Their bathroom I think is really cute, 'cause it has-you know those, like, walls that are at doctors' offices that are made of, like, glass cubes but they're, like-
Jenny: Yeah-
Kristin: Not fully translucent?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: You know, and they, like, curve and shit.
Jenny: Yeah…
Kristin: They've got one of those walls in their bathroom.
Jenny: I don't think that you should have that kind of a wall in a bathroom.
Kristin: I like it!
Jenny: Personally.
Kristin: It's just the two of them, usually, when Uncle Rory isn't sleeping on the couch. Anyway, they're in the bathroom. And I think two important things happen. One is hilarious and one is very serious. The hilarious thing [laughs] is that it literally cuts from them blowing up the lair to Anya being like, "If you love Riley Finn so much, why don't you marry him?" [Jenny laughs] and Xander's like, "He's taken! And that's not the point." [both laugh] Giving us what we all deserve and-
Jenny: Nice.
Kristin: All know to be true.
Jenny: Nice.
Kristin: And then, you know, we probably will get more space to talk about this in other episodes. But an exchange that happens in the bathroom that I think is powerful is that Xander is trying to explain to Anya-which she get-like, she says it back to him. Like, "So what you're saying is that our wedding is not our marriage." That's powerful. What's interesting for them is that their wedding is, like, a nightmare? And he's saying it to be like, "Our wedding is, like, a total nightmare but our marriage is a thing very different from that." And I think that, like, in reality, a lot of people do the opposite, right? Like, we're gonna have this beautiful wedding and everything's gonna be perfect and da-da-da-da-da. And don't think about, like, the reality of what marriage is.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Right? Either way you flip it, though, it's very important to not equate one with the other. And it's really sweet to see Anya, like, click that into place.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah, I agree.
Kristin: Hope we get a chance to talk about it more. Okay.
Jenny: Well.
Kristin: So we move outside the Magic Box, for some reason? They were like, we don't know where-
Jenny: That's where the chopper pickup is in Sunnydale. Now.
Kristin: [laughs] They're like, we already used Pipes Town. [Jenny laughs] We don't know where else to put 'em. [laughing] Just put 'em outside the Magic Box. So Riley is like, um, "yeah, I've gotta leave now. I'm going to Nipple." And I was like, you're going to where? [Jenny laughs] Seriously.
Jenny: Nepal! What?
Kristin: Sam-Sam says Nepal. Sam says Nepal. It's not an issue with anything except for Ri-he-go back-
Jenny: No.
Kristin: If you didn't hear it. He says "nipple." He says "nipple."
Jenny: Simply no.
Kristin: No. Yeah, and then we get this last scene between the two of them.
Jenny: [sighing] Oh, boy. So Riley's like, "I was terrified of seeing you." And Buffy's like, "Oh-guess how pathetic I am probably took the edge off of that." And he's like, "Well…you want me to say that, like, I like seeing you with Spike? You want me to say that blinding orange is your best color? You want me to say that I like the burger smell?" She's like, "Oh no, you smelled the smell!" [laughs]
Kristin: Rude, he shouldn't have said that.
Jenny: Then he says, "You're still the first woman I ever loved and the strongest woman I've ever known." And, uh-and then he's like, "You are a hell of a woman." And it's like, because of how he has been this whole episode, I'm not really interested in hearing that-[laughs]
Kristin: No.
Jenny: From him.
Kristin: And I don't think Buffy is either, to be honest with you. Like, I just-this is not-I guess it gets her-what it gets her to do is realize that she's using Spike in a way that makes her feel not good.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: So that's a positive. Not that, like, she breaks up with Spike. But that she recognizes "this doesn't make me feel good and I have to stop." Because it does make her feel good in other ways. And that's the balance of, like, trying to figure out, like, wait, but what's the net here? So he-his return helps us get there. But other than that, like, I don't really think Riley does anything that would help Buffy heal from the Riley situation. Like, he just makes a mess of a lot of stuff. And he's trying-
Jenny: Well-
Kristin: I guess, in this scene, but…
Jenny: I think what's good for Buffy-I mean, because neither of them ever got closure. Right? And Riley has moved on, and Buffy has moved on in a way, kind of.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: But getting this closure with Riley and being able to make the choice to not tell him that she, like, ran after the chopper that night and-
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: To instead say, you know, "I'm sorry-I never got the chance to tell you how sorry I am about what happened between us."
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: You know, that, like, gives her something.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And the fact that he's like, "And you'll never have to." Like, now they are good.
Kristin: Yeah. Right.
Jenny: And like, a door has been closed, a chapter is ended. And now, Buffy-I think-I think getting that closure maybe helps Buffy come back to herself too, a little bit.
Kristin: That's true, that's true. A few people in the chat are very angry, screaming, "What does she have to be sorry about?" But I think-I think that the point is less, like, what she has to be sorry about. And more just, like, she felt she didn't get to say the things she wanted to say, and she gets to say them. Whether or not-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: She needed to be sorry, I mean, I don't-I agree. I don't think she needed to be sorry for anything. But-and I think-
Jenny: Also, I mean, if you just take it objectively, how sorry she is about what happened between them. She's sorry-
Kristin: Right, that's true.
Jenny: That the things happened. Like, you know, you can feel sorry-you can be Buffy in that position and just be like, man, I am sorry about-
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: What you chose to do. You know, and it-
Kristin: Or like, I'm sorry about the way it happened-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: The way that it happened sucked.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah, and like, you know, I'm-we could argue all day and we don't have to, 'cause we already talked about Season 5. But-
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: I think, like, Buffy could maybe have found ways to reach out to Ri-I think they just had different ways of being in a relationship-
Kristin: Right-
Jenny: And they just couldn't meet up.
Kristin: They couldn't, and they couldn't figure out how to end it in a way where they got closure at that point, either.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: And both of those things suck. And so, I agree. Like, it is good. And we see it. Like, they sort of hammer that point home with Dawn at the end, you know? Because, like, Dawn also was really hurt by the loss of Riley and by the fact that he left the way that he left.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And that was something that she hadn't healed from. And so-and I love that. Because I think, like, you know, it's so easy in a television show to just, like, write the love story and the break up and the healing there. But the truth is that, like, often in these situations, there's more than just the two people who are involved in the relationship who have to, like, do the grieving and the letting go and the healing and all of that. And so, I do think it's nice at the end when Dawn, after being so salty, gets to say a proper goodbye to Riley, in a way that I think gives her closure too. So, fine. Fine. But I don't think any of this healing happened as a result of anything Riley Finn did. [laughs] In this episode, in this episode.
Jenny: Well! Who cares, because it's time for a big group goodbye. [Kristin laughs] Sam has won everyone over, off they fly, strung down from yet another chopper. Always a helicopter with this boy. And LOL. Willow looks up at them as they grow smaller and smaller in the night and says, "What a bitch."
Kristin: So. Fucking. Good! So good. Incredible, Willow. Also, incredible spotlight effect. With them, like-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Repelling up or whatever you call it. So funny. Yeah, also, we would be remiss not to mention, before we leave this scene, that before they go up into the helicopter, we do find out that Willow and Sam have exchanged email addresses and they will remain in touch.
Jenny: Nice.
Kristin: Because Sam-Sam has a secure line. So-
Jenny: Oh yeah!
Kristin: Not to worry, Willow. You can ask her any questions you like. You guys can flirt all you want. A few people last night [Jenny clears throat] in the chat, when we were watching, said that Sam had some Tara vibes and Tara had-you know, I can see-they talked-
Jenny: Yeah, I don't disagree with that.
Kristin: Right, exactly. So. You know. Just saying, would love to see those emails.
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: Alright.
Jenny: Me too. So it's time…
Kristin: Mm, it is. Oh-
Jenny: It's time to have a very important conversation. And when you want to have a very important conversation, it's important to wear your very important conversation outfit.
Kristin: [laughs] I thought you were taking us to the Sexual Tension Awards, but you are taking us to lavender sadness, which is what-[laughing]
Jenny: May I? May I take us to lavender sadness?
Kristin: [laughing] Sure. Jenny-for the listener at home, Jenny is-her Zoom background is Buffy wearing the ruched purple shirt that she wears to Spike's house.
Jenny: Oooh!
Kristin: Heavy eyeliner happening in this look. She's got a pendant. Somebody in the live watch last night said that they wanna believe that Tara gave her this pendant-
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: That's why she's wearing it, for strength. I love that.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah, she stopped by the lingerie section of Contempo Casuals on the way over to the crypt.
Kristin: I mean, you could pick this shit up at Frederick's of Hollywood if you want. It's there. It's there. Look at that ruche.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Look at that ruche.
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: Mmhmm, that's a lot of ruche.
Jenny: Well.
Kristin: The reason I said lavender sadness, just so you know, is that lavender is also the color that Buffy wore when Angel broke up with her in the sewers.
Jenny: Ohh my god.
Kristin: Mmhmm, it's her break up shade.
Jenny: I see. [both laugh] Well. She's come over to talk to Spike, to have a serious conversation with him. And you know, at first, he thinks that maybe she's come over for a bit of [whispers] cold comfort. [normal voice] And she's like, no, no, it's not that. And he's like, uh-oh.
Kristin: Do you think that his penis is cold?
Jenny: Uhh-
Kristin: I'm sorry.
Jenny: I think it's room temp. I think it's room temp.
Kristin: So, colder than the average penis?
Jenny: Yeah, 'cause the average penis is probably, uhh-
Kristin: Higher than room temp?
Jenny: [simultaneously] Like, 97 degrees or whatever.
Kristin: [laughs] Oh, right. Oh, right, room temp, room temp.
Jenny: [laughing] 20, 25 degrees above room temp.
Kristin: Yeah, so like, that sounds nice. You know?
Jenny: [makes brief drumline noise] What happens is Buffy's like, "It's over." And he's like, "Oh, I've heard this song a few times before." And she says, "I'm using you. I can't love you. I'm just being weak and selfish." And then she says, [Kristin groans] "And it's killing me." And his little face. When he's like-as much as he can, I think you can see it, like, enter his consciousness, where he's like, oh no.
Kristin: Ugh. If we didn't see it, now we feel it, Jenny. Thanks so much for that deeply gutting description.
Jenny: He's like, I love-but I love being used! I love when you can't be in love with me. And then she's like, "But it's also hurting me." And he's like, oh no! My one weakness. [laughs]
Kristin: Yeah. Ugh, fuck. It's really fucking sad, it's really fucking sad. And-
Jenny: And then she says, "I'm sorry…William."
Kristin: [simultaneously, whispering] William.
Jenny: And she leaves, oh no!
Kristin: William. She calls him William. [Jenny sighs] Everyone in the chat is screaming "William." [laughs]
Jenny: [laughing] It's true.
Kristin: [laughs] It's so much. And like, Spike is far from perfect. Far from perfect.
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: Far from someone who has been good to her in all of the ways that she deserves. But his absolute inability to move away from caring for her and, like, for her heart and for her-her, like-this-is so sad. And then, like, what does it mean? Right? Like, why does she call him William, Jenny?
Jenny: I mean, I think it's, like, the most direct-[Kristin sighs] like, she's connecting and appealing to his humanity. Right, and not just the, like, hot fuck vampire part of him.
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Jenny: You know?
Kristin: Yeah. No, I agree. I think it's like-ugh. It's just a lot, it's sad. But you know, I have good news for everybody, which is that this episode, Season 6, [laughs] Episode 15, is the lowest point in this season. So, we just-[Jenny cackles, Kristin joins] It's just-
Jenny: Oh, that's such a good one. Oh my god. [laughs]
Kristin: Party town. They were like, they've had enough!
Jenny: [simultaneously] Yeah, it's all puppies and rainbows from here.
Kristin: Okay!
Jenny: But, you know-
Kristin: Yo, I looked at the fucking list-like, I looked at the-like, Hell's Bells, Entropy, all of 'em. I looked at all of 'em, the words, the titles, and I was like, what the fuck?! [Jenny laughs] Like, what-we are really…this is why this is-
Jenny: [laughs] Someone in the chat said "spoiler-free" in quotes. [both laugh]
Kristin: Well, we at least protect you from knowing that you're gonna maybe be not happy-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Watching the rest of this season, so.
Jenny: But listen, we may not have any puppies. We may not have any rainbows. But we've got, uhh, individuals coming together, theoretically-
Kristin: [laughing, simultaneously] Or not.
Jenny: And possibly in practice.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: [laughing] Or coming separately. Whatever! It's-s-s-s time! For the…
NOTES: [SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays] Sexual tension award!
Kristin: I always wanted to be a DJ. [laughs]
Jenny: Welcome! My precious little Scoobies! To the latest and possibly greatest Sexual Tension Awards!
Kristin: I mean, truly, we had so many nominees. Like, I just was shouting nominees. They were so many that I was-
Jenny: Yeah, we should save some nominees for episodes that will probably
NOTES: [Kristin laughs] come soon that we can't nominate anyone for. [laughs]
Kristin: That we can't nominate anyone for. Yeah, 'cause I was like, we might need to do two polls.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Oh, the third overflow runoff. [both laugh] Sexual Tension Awards-
Kristin: Seriously.
Jenny: For Season 6, Episode 15, As You Were. Here are your slots…and noms. The noms therein, the noms nestled therein, snug in their beds, deep in the noms! Okay. In slot number one, two ladies, recalling [Kristin laughs] the antics of a different lady and one of the same ladies. [Kristin laughs] Taking a slow, sexy, leather-clad walk through the darkened cemetery! Anything could happen. They've both boned the same guy, it's not cheating if that's the case, right? It's Sam and Buffy.
Kristin: [laughing] It's never cheating! When two girls kiss and one of them is dating a boy, it's not cheating. Just look into your 1997 handbook for the rules.
NOTES: [laughs]
Jenny: That's the rule! In…slot number two, listen! It's 2002. People were conducting romantic relationships over email all the time, so why not Sam and Willow!
Kristin: Hell yeah. What do you think they're emailing about, you know what I mean?
Jenny: Just like, ponytails and, like…magicks.
Kristin: Yeah, Willow's like, "I got some new incense."
Jenny: Yes. What I'm realizing, as everyone in the chat is going off about how it's Pride month, [Kristin laughs] that this whole-
Kristin: We should have ended-yeah. Is the whole thing-?
Jenny: This whole-every slot, Pride-worthy noms.
Kristin: Rainbows shooting out of every slot. Falling into every nom.
Jenny: That's right.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: That's right!
Kristin: Mmhmm!
Jenny: In slot number three, the noms we have carefully, lovingly handpicked for thee. It's one man who's taken, and it's one man who noticed, it's Riley and Xander!
Kristin: [singing] "The boys are back in town!"
Jenny: [singing, joining in] "Town!"
Kristin: [singing] "The boys are back in town!"
Jenny: [singing, joining in] "Town!" [Kristin laughs] Yeah!
NOTES: [Tune from "The Boys Are Back in Town" by Thin Lizzy plays]
Jenny: Perfectly in sync.
Kristin: Yes. Thank you, Zoom, for that.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Oh, boy. And in the fourth slot. You've been a bad, bad patient. [both laugh] It's time for your annual checkup! [laughs hard] [shrieks]
Kristin: Oh, no…
Jenny: Hope you brought your big [Kristin laughs] leather bag of tricks, tools, and various paraphernalia. With which you ply your trade.
Kristin: Wow!
Jenny: In-
Kristin: "Ply your trade." Jenny Owen Youngs, everybody. Ply…your trade.
Jenny: Is Riley and Doctor Spike's dead body!
Kristin: Oh, god. Riley and the doctor. How are you ever gonna choose? I'm so glad this doesn't rest on our shoulders.
Jenny: Yeah, this is a tough choice.
Kristin: This is really-
Jenny: [laughing] "Room temp balls," says the chat.
Kristin: Somebody said-when you were saying that Spike's penis is room temp and not 97, they were like, "It's probably 69 degrees." [laughs]
Jenny: Nice.
Kristin: Yeah. So, um, cool. How do people participate in this poll?
Jenny: Well-
Kristin: Apart from doing what they're doing now, which is screaming in the chat.
NOTES: [both laugh]
Jenny: Well! If you would like your voice to be heard in our beautiful Sexual Tension Awards, cast your vote via a poll found on our Twitter for one week following the publishment of this episode. On Twitter, we are @BufferingCast. You will see all your slaawwww-! [Kristin laughs] You will see all your noms and their various slots and you must pick one and only one, and let us know which one by clicking on the thing and then we'll let you know, in the next episode, who won. Yay!
NOTES: [SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays] Sexual tension award!
Kristin: Okay, so. Here we are on the other side of the Sexual Tension Awards. And Riley Finn has come. He has gone. [both laugh] He is now with his wife, Sam, who may or may not be having a little bit of an affair with Willow Rosenburg. You know, we'll see. And how are we feeling, Jenny? I mean-
Jenny: Oh my god! It's been a wild ride!
Kristin: It's-a lot happened in this episode, I will say. It's not-it's an episode that will not give you answers. If you want answers to any of your questions, it does not provide those.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: It is simply here as a vehicle for Buffy to get some closure, to break up with Spike, and to lead us into the rest of this season.
Jenny: I mean, I'll happily be led forward. By this episode or any other. Let's gooo!
Kristin: Yeah, so, what do we wanna tell everybody? Do you wanna tell people where they can find you? [Jenny takes deep breath] What-who are you?
Jenny: Well! I'm so glad you asked.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Riley stan, Jenny Owen Youngs.
Jenny: Uh…nay. Not a stan.
Kristin: It's nice to come together with you in this moment. You know what I mean?
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah.
Kristin: 'Cause we had a-it was-
Jenny: I'm just looking for a little objectivity, logic, comparative reasoning.
Kristin: Mmhmm. I think everyone-everyone in this podcast was coming from a very reasonable place. We just got very passionate about it. We're both Sagittariuses, so-
Jenny: Mm, yep.
Kristin: You know.
Jenny: Yep, fire it up!
Kristin: When things get fired up, they get fired up. And that's what happened with Riley Finn, but now we can come together and say, probably there was a nice medium here. [Jenny laughs] Cool. We have our closure, Jenny! This is so nice.
Jenny: Oh my god, how beautiful. We can finally move on.
Kristin: I guess it's time for you to go up into your helicopter. [laughs]
Jenny: Guess so. Well. I am a Sagittarius sun, Libra moon, Leo rising, Jenny Owen Youngs! And when I am not watching Buffy and making this podcast with Kristin, I'm usually writing and recording songs. You learn more about me at jennyowenyoungs.com. You can give me a shout on Twitter @JennyOwenYoungs. You can listen to my new EP, Echo Mountain, and the brand new Generationals remix of my song, Dungeons and Dragons, which rips! And you can listen to the first two singles from my band, L.A. Exes, Skinny Dipping-
Kristin: My favorite band.
Jenny: And Temporary Goodbye. [laughs] Thank you.
Kristin: My favorite band. I'm obsessed with L.A. Exes. Um, yeah. I am Sagittarius sun, Sagittarius rising, Aries moon-
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Kristin Russo. Is that right?
Jenny: That's correct.
Kristin: Oh, phew. I was so nervous. [laughs] 'Cause I know what I am sun-wise, but sometimes I reverse the moon and the rising. And you know, when I'm not here, sandwiched between two Riley Finns in my Zoom background, [Jenny laughs] talking about Buffy the Vampire Slayer, I…
Jenny: We should allow people to write in to the Sexual Tension Awards one other slot, which is you between two Rileys. Just a thought, just an idea, sorry, bye.
NOTES: [laughs]
Kristin: I'm not mad about it. [Jenny laughs] So when I'm not here, sandwiched between two Rileys, I am usually doing work with the LGBTQ community. It is Pride month, so I am busy this month. I do talks at workplaces and schools. I also donate a GSA talk every month. If you are-I say GSA. That's kind of an umbrella. But if you're a librarian or teacher or student, I, every month, will do a talk where we hang out, we talk, we answer questions. We just have a good time. So those are some things that I do. I'm also writing a book! I finally get to announce it officially. It is part of the Quick and Easy Guide. There's been a Quick and Easy Guide to They/them Pronouns, a Quick and Easy Guide to Consent, written by Isabella Rotman, who you know from here and other places. And I'm gonna be writing a Quick and Easy Guide to Coming Out. So that's fun. And who the hell are we, Jenny?
Jenny: Well. We are indisputably Buffering the Vampire Slayer. We're on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram, @BufferingCast. And you can email us at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com!
Kristin: You can. If you don't already, you could support our work on Patreon. A lot of cool shit over there. Just always-always happening. There's something always happening over there. You can get music, you can watch the show with us. You can join the book club. Our next book up is This is How We Lose the Time War. Jenny does concerts sometimes. It's a fun place. You can also buy some merch. If you'd like to smash the patriarchy on your body with messages-
Jenny: [simultaneously, whispering] Smash it on your body. Smash it.
Kristin: We have many ways for you to do that. [laughs] And you know, you can rate and review us, if you like what you're hearing here. So now. Are you ready? Is everyone ready? Everyone's giving each other their signs. It's devolved. The queerness of the space has devolved. [Jenny laughs] It's all-it's fallen apart in the chat. [laughs] Okay, there they all are. They're all ready.
Jenny: Everyone's ready? Okay.
Kristin: Recording your awoo's. Jenny-
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: Do not fake them out this time. You faked them out last time and we got a million awoo's where everybody was like, "I'm so sorry that I said awoo five times, but it's Jenny's fault. [Jenny laughs] She faked us out." So don't fake them out.
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: Do one awoo.
Jenny: A nice, clean awoo.
Kristin: Clean awoo.
Jenny: You are all so beautiful and we love you so much. Until next time…
Many recordings: Awwwoooooooooooo!
Person 1: Yeah!
Person 2: Yeah!
Kristin: Helicopter noises!
Jenny: [makes quiet helicopter noises] ["As You Were" plays off the album "Songs from Season Six" by Buffering the Vampire Slayer]