Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 3.04: Beauty and the Beasts
Jenny: Hey, everybody! Oh my gosh, before we get started with today's episode, we have some very exciting announcements, so please, fasten your safety buckles, and let me tell you some stuff. Holy shoot, we've got-
Kristin: Holy shoot!
Jenny: Yeah, that's right. We've got some thrilling new merch, and I'll tell you about it right now. We've got an "awooooo!" baseball tee, our very first baseball tee, we've also got an "awooooo!" knit palm hat, very exciting, for the winter chill that is very nearly upon us.
Kristin: In Sunnydale colors.
Jenny: In Sunnydale Razorback colors. Winter is coming, stock up now. Also, oh my gosh, we've got both "Smash the Demon Lizard Patriarchy" hoodies- oh my god, for the first time ever- and also, we're restocked on the "Smash the Demon Lizard Patriarchy" t-shirts, including fitted shirts! A lot of you have been asking for them, now we've got them. The world calls them "women's shirts," but we call them "fitted shirts," for clarity. We also have stickers, oft requested, finally realized. We are shipping a sticker with every package that we ship out, but if you want to order more than one sticker, you can do that as well.
Kristin: It's true!
Jenny: Wow. So just head over to bufferingthevampireslayer.com and click on "Shop" and you will see our cave of wonders!
Kristin: It's very exciting, very exciting indeed. Also, I want to just let you all know- so, many of you last week were like, "Where's the episode? Where's the episode? [intensely] Where is the episode?" And that is because I think you didn't know that we have added our calendar to the website. So if you go to that same website Jenny just said and you click on "Calendar," you will see that we have most of our production schedule done through "The Wish," and we'll keep building it out. And, for the most part, we're doing three episodes on, and then one off. We're gonna follow that format roundabouts through this season, and that will give us some much needed breaks in between songwriting and podcasting and all those things to make sure that we're delivering you the very best content we can.
Jenny: Yes, yes indeed. Also, for those of you in the LA area, we will be performing live, we'll be doing a live taping on October 14th, which is a Saturday, and we are so excited to be officially telling you who our guestswill be on that very magical evening. They will be: your friend and mine, Kate Leth; the incredible creator of our Buffering logo and many other great works of art, Kristin Thune, very excited; and also, the perfect Ira Madison III, holy- I am thrilled. So, if you want to join us, and you should, grab a ticket before they sell out. You can find all the details on our website bufferingthevampireslayer.com, just click on "Events."
Kristin: Yes, and we will be taping "Revelations." That is also a new announcement. And for those of you who are not in the Los Angeles area, we will be doing a Buffy watch with our patrons, all of our patrons, for "Revelations" the day of our live taping, that afternoon. Again, all on our "Events" page, and the show is going to sell out, so if you want tickets, I suggest you grab them now.
Jenny: Grab one!
Kristin: Okay, before we get to the show, this is so many announcements, but there's a lot of really fun, exciting things, and also very important things, ahead. I wanna let everyone know that Jenny and I, last month in September, we started a new project, where we do five lyric sheets every month, and we are selling them for $100 a piece. We hand-write the lyric sheets, and we send them to you. You pick the song, and the proceeds all go to a different organization. So, September, we donated to the Hurricane Harvey Relief Fund, and we just sent that donation in. We were so thrilled to do it, and we actually sold all five lyric sheets in about three days, so you all are incredible. And this month, we've decided to do two runs of lyric sheets. We're doing ten total, and let me tell you why. So this episode, "Beauty and the Beasts," includes depictions of domestic violence, and so Jenny and I discussed this after watching the episode the first time, that we were like, well, we're definitely going to give to an organization that helps survivors of domestic violence. And also, October is domestic violence awareness month, so it was no question that we were going to do this, and so we are. So, five of the ten lyric sheets, those proceeds are going to the NW Network, which is a Seattle-based organization that specifically helps LGBTQ survivors of domestic violence. The other five lyric sheets we added, because, since taping this episode, Puerto Rico was hit by a devastating hurricane, and has been left in just a horrific situation, and they need so, so much of our help and attention. So we are adding the additional five lyric sheets, the additional $500 of those proceeds will go to Hispanic Federation, who are doing incredible work on the ground. So again, all those ten lyric sheets are up as of today. If you want one of those, it's a great way to give back and get something really special for yourself in return. Go to the website, click on "Shop," and they're all up there. You can let us know what song you'd like, and at the end of the month, we'll send those lyric sheetsout as well as the proceeds to both of those organizations. We do wanna mention, even though I just said it once, I just want to let you all know that, if you're listening to the episode, there will be discussions of domestic violence in this episode. So if you don't want to partake in listening to discussions around domestic violence, you can skip this episode and join us for "Homecoming," where we will talk about homecoming.
Jenny: Yes! And now that there is absolutely nothing left on planet Earth to announce, on to the show.
NOTES: [THEME SONG]
Jenny: Hello! And welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast where we are watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer one at a time. My name is Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: And I am Kristin Russo, and this week we're talking about Season 3, Episode 4, Beauty and the Beasts. Stay tuned at the end of this podcast every week for an original song, written by us, recapping the Buffy episode that we're discussing.
Jenny: Beauty and the Beasts was written by Marti Noxon, directed by James Whitmore Jr., and it originally aired on October 20, 1998.
Kristin: This is the one where Oz becomes the prime suspect when a series of animal-like attacks occur in Sunnydale.
Jenny: Nooooooo!
Kristin: Dun dun dun! It's also the one where Angel is back.
Jenny: And people know it. Somebody knows it. One person knows it.
Kristin: [overlapping] One person knows it.
Jenny: It's Buffy.
Kristin: [laughing] That's the episode, folks! Awoooooo!
Jenny: Tadaaa! [Laughter] So this episode begins- [whispers] great! Great. This… we haven't had a voiceover this good since Passion. [Kristin laughs] We've got Buffy reading an excerpt from Call of the Wild while we pan through the wilderness.
Kristin: Yeah, it's interesting, because it starts with Buffy reading it, and then it switches. We pan from the jungle- the blurry, obviously running through the jungle shot-
Jenny: Right, uh-huh.
Kristin: To the library-
Jenny: The jungle of Southern California.
Kristin: [laughing] the Jungle of Sunnydale high school, the library, and it really is a jungle. I'm gonna skip ahead to a note that I have far down theline here: "why in the hell aren't those bookcases bolted down at this point?"
Jenny: Great question.
Kristin: The bookcases are always falling on people!
Jenny: Fool me once…
Kristin: Right?! Like, Willow was legit in the hospital… so, so hurt from the- and in this episode, the same thing happens. They're like, "I know what the good weapon is, I'll just knock this fuckin' bookcase over."
Jenny: Even IKEA bookcases come with wall bolts.
Kristin: Right? I just seems like they're- okay, whatever. Anyhow, we go to the library, and Willow is then reading Call of the Wild, that's how they actually anchor the text in the episode.
Jenny: Right, right. She's reading it to Oz while werewolf Oz paces around his library cage.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Which still… nothing to see here, everyone else who works at the school! Just a werewolf in the library cage where also all the weapons are. Just across from shelves and shelves of books that are centered around the occult and the dark arts.
Kristin: Right, right! All secured by two doors that flop back and forth with no locking mechanism whatsoever. [laughs]
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah. Great.
Kristin: I'm gonna give Xander one compliment in this episode, and then I'm going to rail on him for the total duration of the time, okay?
Jenny: Oooh.
Kristin: But the one compliment that I have for Xander is his outfit in this scene. We don't have Kate Leth in this episode-
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: So I will take it upon myself-
Jenny: What's he wearing?
Kristin: He's wearing red pants and a green shirt, which you'd think, you can't pull it off because it's Christmas colors…
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: Freddy Krueger colors…
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: It's actually a lot of red and green, 'cause I shout out Willow's… later in the episode, Willow is wearing a Freddy sweater-
Jenny: Yes, yes.
Kristin: That's the same kind of red and green, but I think Xander just looks really good! I'm sorry, I know a lot of people are going to be upset by this, that I'm giving Xander a compliment-
Jenny: But if anybody is still listening to our show that likes Xander, they'll be pleased!
Kristin: [laughing] Right, right. But Xander, I don't know, I just think he's looking good. He's looking good. Good job with the look, Xander, and horrible job with the being a person.
Jenny: Mmmmmm!
Kristin: I'm sorry, but like, first, Xander- okay, so this is like in the span of thirty seconds, right?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Xander walks in, and is immediately "no homo," right?
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: [imitating Xander] "I can handle Oz in the full monty. I mean, not handle, I'm not gay, guys, I wouldn't be gay, don't worry about me."
Jenny: Mm-hm.
Kristin: "Totally straight Xander here." So first we get "no homo," then we get Xander being jealous of the fact that Willow has seen "half a monty," as she puts it. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah, what even…?
Kristin: Right? Which half?
Jenny: Like… also which half? Which half do you- I mean, be reasonable about the standard progression of things in high school.
Kristin: [overlapping] It would be weird if she had only seen… [laughs] right? She's like, "well he hasn't taken off his shirt yet, but he does walk around like Winnie the Pooh." [they laugh] And then, and then of course-
Jenny: And then he goes right to fucking sleep.
Kristin: Right. And the biggest offense.
Jenny: He doesn't even try to stay up for like a minute.
Kristin: No!
Jenny: He's just like, "I'm gonna lie down on this table."
Kristin: And, like, I will say this. This isn't typical Xander, you know? Xander has had plenty of moments where he does do the right thing-
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: And figure out the way to fight the thing, or whatever. I don't really understand why he's being so casual about this? I mean, maybe it's been enough full moons where he's kind of let down his guard, nothing has happened, he thinks that everything's easy and safe, but it is pretty shitty. So…
Jenny: Yeah… not great.
Kristin: You know what is great?
Jenny: The new Season 3 werewolf costume?
Kristin: Oh, well it is better, but it's still- [Jenny laughs] there's something about-
Jenny: It's something. It looks more like a gorilla suit with a werewolf-
Kristin: Head.
Jenny: Mask.
Kristin: Face.
Jenny: Sewn into the face-hole.
Kristin: Yeah, and also the body movements are very gorilla-like. Like, the way that the werewolf lumbers…
Jenny: Right, right, right.
Kristin: Is like a very… it's not like a wolf-
Jenny: Well, do you want to know why that is? It's because humans- [Kristin laughs] which we assume is what's inside of that suit, are constructed a lot more like gorillas than wolves.
Kristin: Right, right. Their legs are longer than their arms.
Jenny: Just in terms of their joints, and positionings, and musculature, and center of gravity…
Kristin: Yeah, so different take on the werewolf here in Sunnydale.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: But what I was going to say is great is this next scene-
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: Between Faith and Buffy. This is definitely my favorite scene in the whole episode, and I wrote another erotic novel. [Jenny laughs] Similarly to last week's, all in caps. I didn't mean to do it, I want everyone to know, I wasn't planning ahead, like, oh, I should write another one. It just happened. You know? You can't-
Jenny: Right right right. The second installment of Kristin's-
Kristin: You can't battle with the creative…
Jenny: Accidental erotic novel.
Kristin: [Laughs] So my second novel, all caps, five lines: "Doin' the ditty, kickin' the gear shift, good down-low tickle. How low? You tell me." [laughs]
Jenny: That about sums up the first half of this scene. And good to see thatnothing has changed since the last episode re: Faith's general vibe.
Kristin: Uh, yeah, nothing has changed in Faith's general vibe, but also, I am sorry, I do not accept anything from this exchange except that these are two adult people flirting heavily.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: I do not- I'm sorry, you will not find a person on this planet to convince me of anything else. I mean, "how low? You tell me. Giggle, giggle"? That's flirting, Jenny.
Jenny: I feel like… okay…
Kristin: What do you feel like? Go ahead, try to convince me. It won't work.
Jenny: [laughing] Okay. Uh, being objective, trying to be objective, right?
Kristin: [sarcastically] Sure, okay, fine, yeah, objective, mm-hm.
Jenny: I think, if anything is happening here, Faith is maybe flirting…
Kristin: Fine, yeah, fine.
Jenny: Right?
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: And Buffy is either oblivious…
Kristin: Uhh…
Jenny: Or- they're talking about boys-
Kristin: She's giggling.
Jenny: [laughing] Okay.
Kristin: She's giggling, Jenny. She's giggling. I mean, I know- fine. Faith is more on board for the direct-
Jenny: What is a women if not someone who giggles about boys?
Kristin: [laughs] I'm just saying, like- as a queer woman, I know that the way to flirt with other women when you're not sure about the situation is to-
Jenny: Oh right, is to talk about boys and say things that are provocative and over the line- okay.
Kristin: Yes, we use the boys as the shield- the safety shield-
Jenny: Listen, I-
Kristin: [imitating someone in this situation] "Sure, we're just talking about"-
Jenny: Wrote the book on practicing for boys. [Kristin laughs] So you don't need to convince me. I just want to be respectful of Faith and Buffy, and their journey towards whatever.
Kristin: That's nice. So, I wrote a book called "This is a Book for Parents of Gay Kids," and Jenny wrote a book called "This is a Book for Practicing for Boys."
NOTES: [both laugh]
Jenny: Yes! That was my book.
Kristin: So, anyhow, I'm sorry, I know- we've had a couple of comments that, you know, we're gonna get really repetitive in our sexual tension awards this season. I'm just going to follow my heart, and I don't- you know, I mean, if that's the way it is, that's the way it is, guys!
Jenny: Okay, okay.
Kristin: I'm awarding it right now.
NOTES: [sexual tension award jingle plays] Sexual Tension Award!
Jenny: Right now?!
Kristin: Right now! "Doin' the ditty. Kickin' the-"
Jenny: Just fresh out of the gate?!
Kristin: Yeah!
Jenny: Alright…
Kristin: I mean, I don't need any more. Sure, fine, she interrupts her with her discman later. Sure, fine, whatever. [Jenny laughs] But like, I'm sorry, this is where it's going. Do you have any other contenders for this episode, for sexual tension?
Jenny: No. No, ma'am.
Kristin: I mean, the werewolf and Pete, they're definitely- there's some heat there, I think-
Jenny: [laughing] Sure.
Kristin: But it's nothing compare- I'm sorry!
Jenny: No, nothing compares to Faith and Buffy.
Kristin: [singing] Nothing compares… to you.
Jenny: Is that- what- are you in character right now? Singing-
Kristin: That's the song! You don't know that song?
Jenny: No, I know that song! But I'm just like, are you singing it as-
Kristin: I'm singing it as Faith to Buffy.
Jenny: To Buffy. Okay, got it.
Kristin: Or Buffy to Faith, honestly, but-
Jenny: Okay, so the back half of this scene, though-
Kristin: "Just doin' the ditty."
Jenny: Ooooookay.
Kristin: Sorry, I'm sorry! But like, she has so many ways of saying "having sex," you know?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Screwin', doin' the ditty, kickin' the gear- I'm gonna use- I'm gonna adopt kickin' the gear shift.
NOTES: [both laugh]
Jenny: I do like that.
Kristin: "So are you two kickin' the gear shift?" Heh?
Jenny: Um, great.
Kristin: Okay.
Jenny: So the back half of this scene-
Kristin: Right. The back half of this scene is more serious.
Jenny: "All men are beasts."
Kristin: Yes. "They're all just in it for the chase." And this is, like, really… I mean, this episode is very complicated. Let's just get this out of the way. This episode is really- it really digs into themes around domestic violence. It really genders certain instincts that people have, it really genders violence. And, you know- we will talk about it a bit within this episode, but I do want to let everyone know, we have an interview, part of which will be featured in this episode directly, and the full interview will be up on our SoundCloud page and up on our Patreon page if you want to listen to it. I suggest that you do. We interviewed Red McCormick, who is someone who is trained in working with victims of domestic violence, and also somebody who is a huge fan of Buffy the Vampire Slayer. It was a really great Venn diagram match-
Jenny: Perfect intersection.
Kristin: To find for this, so we'll- as we progress through the episode, we'll definitely touch on these themes, we'll hear a bit from Red. We're also going to offer resources at the end of the episode for survivors of domestic violence, for people who know others who are in abusive relationships, and for those who are in abusive relationships right now. We'll have those resources, and I also want to just take a moment- and we'll say this again at the end of the episode- to let everybody know, October is actually Domestic Violence Awareness Month. And that is very timely for when this episode landed, and you know that Jenny and I are picking a different organization to donate $500 a month to. We have, up in our store, lyric sheets for sale, five of them, every month, so five are now up for October. We will hand-write the lyrics of your choice from any Buffering song and send them to you, and 100% of that money will go to an organization. And so this month we've chosen the NW Network. It's a Seattle-based network for bi, trans, lesbian, and gay survivors of abuse, and they work to end violence and abuse by building loving and equitable relationships in our community and across the country. There are so many organizations doing incredible work. We picked NW because we really loved their focus on queer communities, but again, there will be a list of more resources at the end of this episode and in the show notes.
Jenny: Okay, so then we go to the… balcony? The courtyard? Walkway? Like, what a lovely high school, Sunnydale High is.
Kristin: Yes. So nice to go to school in Southern California, you know? I was almost about to say, it reminds me of 90210. It is literally the school.
Jenny: It's the exact same school. Great.
Kristin: So that's why it reminds me of 90210. But yeah, so we meet Pete and Debbie. We actually don't find out Pete's name, I think, I this scene, but we meet Debbie. There's an exchange about Platt, the guidance counselor, who Buffy's gonna to go see, right, and then we go to the library. [both laugh] Yeah?
Jenny: Where Giles is panicking.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: And as Willow and Oz walk in, he announces, immediately, "no need to panic."
Kristin: "No need to panic!" as he flusters and blusters around the library-
Jenny: Yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah.
Kristin: In a very Giles fashion, and of course, we learn that Jeff, a student at the school, has been killed in a way that suggests it could have been a werewolf.
Jenny: Mauled to death.
Kristin: Mauled to death. And Xander, piss-baby Xander, at it once again, [Jenny laughs] sort of lets it go that- "oh, he was here when I… " and Giles-
Jenny: "Woke up?!"
Kristin: [laughs] Right, Giles has a great "woke up?!" He's so angry.
Jenny: Right, and also the window is open in the wolf cage. Can I just- I know we just got done saying, basically, without saying it, that this is a terrible place for a werewolf to wile out.
Kristin: Yeah. Also 'cause later Pete just rips the cage open, and you have to believe that the werewolf and Pete are close to equally matched in strength. [laughs]
Jenny: I think this cage and a lot of other things in this show, sort of vary their strengths. The strengths of certain structures just kind of mold themselves to whatever the plot needs.
Kristin: Ahhh. Are you talking about metaphittics, Jenny?
Jenny: I am-
Kristin: Great.
Jenny: Talking about metaphittics.
Kristin: [laughs] So, right. So the window is left open, Xander is a piss-baby, Giles is justifably furious…
Jenny: Oz is freaked out!
Kristin: Of course! This is horrible for Oz. I mean, you know, not knowing what you did while you were a werewolf, and then finding out that you may have killed somebody, anybody, but a friend of yours.
Jenny: For somebody who's so self-righteous about condemning other people's behaviours that might endanger their friends-
Kristin: Right?!
Jenny: Xander is a real shithead.
Kristin: There's a lot of hypocrisy in this episode, and we will get to more of it. But yeah, you're right. Let's just- for now we'll stop there, at "Xander is a shithead in this episode."
Jenny: Cool, cool, cool. Then Buffy goes to my favorite guidance counselor of all time, Platt.
Kristin: Yes, Mr. Platt! He is- I really-
Jenny: He rules.
Kristin: I think he's great.
Jenny: I love him.
Kristin: I wanna say here, though, because we have a lot of people watching this show who probably weren't alive in the '90s, or who were not in high school in the '90s. Smoking in your office was not a common thing that happened in school.
Jenny: Right?
Kristin: No, I mean, like, you could smoke in places- more places in the '90s-
Jenny: Outside.
Kristin: Than you could in, you know, now, where you really can't smoke anywhere. But this was, like, in the '70s that you would see a teacher smoking in a classroom.
Jenny: Yeah, that's some Mad Men shit.
Kristin: And there's, like, you know, he- he sort of, like, sprays his whatever to, like, get, you know. [Jenny laughs] But it just- I don't know.
Jenny: Maybe we're just supposed to infer from this that Platt's a rule-breaker.
Kristin: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Jenny: He's not like other teachers.
Kristin: Totally, totally. And that's why it's written like this. Also, I- not to call people out, but I… really notice when a person is or is not a smoker-
Jenny: Ahh.
Kristin: You know, when an actor is or is not a smoker, you can usually tell. Usually they do a bad job of inhaling. Platt does a good job of inhaling, but he smokes right in the dead center of his mouth, like, that's where he puts the cigarette, which, if you're a smoker, you know that's not really usually where the cigarette lands.
Jenny: Right…
Kristin: So I'm gonna call you out that you're not a smoker. Great for you! That you are not a smoker.
Jenny: Yes, enjoy your long life.
Kristin: Very healthy choice. So, right. So Platt and Buffy have this conversation that's pretty great! That's- you know, he really challenges Buffy to tell him more.
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: And she does.
Jenny: Yeah, he gets her to open up a little bit.
Kristin: Yeah, and so there's this narrative of "I loved him, then he changed." We kind of heard some of this with Joyce in earlier episodes-
Jenny: Right right.
Kristin: This is like, how she explained it to Joyce as well. Platt says, "he got mean and you didn't stop loving him," and then sort of ends his theory by saying that, "if you keep walking down this path, love will become your master and you just are its dog." Lotta dog-
Jenny: Oh yeah!
Kristin: Lotta dog things in this episode. The Call of the Wild, the werewolf…
Jenny: Right right right.
Kristin: Love is making you a dog… but I think it's a decent conversation, and it starts to touch on these themes and we- I mean, to be totally honest, we sort of already talked about the violence between Buffy and Angel. And that it's kind of this grey area because she's the Slayer and he's a vampire, but also they are in a relationship… like, we could have gone there already, and we haven't. And this episode, for sure, forces our hand in looking at this and in talking about this. I don't know, I have lots of things that we'll unpack as we go, because I- Marti Noxon wrote this episode, and I put a lot of stock in Marti Noxon in, like, how we handle things, but I think there's a lot of complicated things that happen. We'll get there.
Jenny: Well, maybe they're intended to be complicated.
Kristin: Well, right, and you can't- I mean, as you'll see in the little bit of the interview that we have here with Red and in the longer interview, these kinds of things are grey- like, there are grey areas. It's very hard to say this is that and this is the other thing.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And Angel and Buffy really do that here for us in this episode. But we'll get there.
Jenny: Okay, okay, okay.
Kristin: Let's not dig in there yet. First, let's get to Cordelia.
Jenny: Please.
Kristin: I just- any Cordelia moment like this makes me happy. They walk into the library and immediately Cordelia's just like, "Oz ate someone." [both laugh] Love you Cordy, love your-
Jenny: Just toss that tact out the window.
Kristin: Yes, absolutely. And then we get the second bit of this guy thing. I don't know, Jenny, if you- if anything comes to your mind when people say, like, "it's a guy thing." Is there anything that-
Jenny: Like some kind of structure that would be in place that would sort of like-
Kristin: Right, it's invisible. A lot times, it's hard to see the structure.
Jenny: Interesting.
Kristin: But if you really squint your eyes and-
Jenny: Oh my god, wait! I have an idea. It might be…
NOTES: [Patriarchy jingle plays] [Organ music plays] The patriarchy!
NOTES: [Clap of thunder] Muahahahaha!
Jenny: Right? Doesn't that seem right?
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah, it does.
Jenny: Doesn't that seem like maybe what's at work here?
Kristin: I think it is at work here, and I also think that if every time the patriarchy was at work, we got to hear that jingle, the structure would become a lot more visible. [Jenny laughs] So I'm just saying, people, the jingle is free. Go to our patreon page, put it on your phone, and use it like an airhorn, you know?
Jenny: Yes! Oh my gosh.
Kristin: Just any time that you see the patriarchy, just, boom. The jingle plays. That's all I'm saying. [both laugh] Okay?
Jenny: Wow. Wow wow wow. Also, I bristle at the assertion that only guys-
Kristin: Need to walk away?
Jenny: And, like, leave dramatically in the middle of a thing. Please.
Kristin: Right. And, you know, we have a lot of love for Oz in this podcast.
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: Oz is certainly, I think, out of a lot of the male characters, very aware and centered and focused on things that are positive for many genders of people, not just-
Jenny: Yeah. This is the only time, I think, he's ever even said anything about being a dude.
Kristin: Right, right. At least this directly. I mean, it's just not like him, but he is going through something, and the episode really needs us to follow this arc. Really, that's what's so troubling about this- there's a lot of things that are troubling about this episode.
Jenny: Right, but like, the thing that's reinforced across a variety of experiences is, like, guys have a thing inside of them that they can't control.
Kristin: Yeah, and I don't know if that rings any bells with something we've heard from probably maybe the creator of the show recently. But it does, and like that's a- it's troubling when it happens in real life, and it's troubling when it happens in shows.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Anything that draws a line that says, like, you know, "this is bad, but also men may have this thing inside of them-"
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: Is really tricky. And it's not tricky to say, like, statistically speaking, when we're talking about relationships that have abuse or violence in them- statistically speaking, it is more often men than any other gender. But it's fucked up when we say, like, it's something inside of them, because it tends to bring people in this argument where it's like, well, it's something inside of them, and so sometimes they can't help it. And that's troublesome. And again, we'll get more into this as we go through the episode.
Jenny: Mm-hm.
Kristin: But for here- for now, Oz walks away. And this is an important moment, because Oz walks away, and it's not like the most wonderful moment between Oz and Willow, but it is calm, and it's respectful, and Oz walks into the cage, and locks himself into the cage, and says, "get away." And we'll see this dynamic, I think, between Pete and Oz a bunch, where Pete, we see, not walk- right, not talking any measure of control. Not relying on his network of friends, not relying on anything, and feeling like he's entitled to do whatever the hell he wants.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: And then we see Oz, who knows that he has a weakness-
Jenny: Even though he is having feelings right now, he still has a responsibility to himself, and to the people around him, to get in the cage.
Kristin: Yes, exactly. So, he does this, he goes into the cage… then we gointo the woods, and I really need to fuckin' know: where did Angel get a pair of goddamn pants?
Jenny: Right?! Where are the pants?
Kristin: Where did he get pants?
Jenny: But no shirt. Oops. [both laugh] Also-
Kristin: Oops! He was like, "Mmm, I could take this shirt too, but maybe not." The only thing I retained from my hundreds of years of torture in the hell dimension-
Jenny: Is how to put on pants. Don't remember how to put on a shirt.
Kristin: No! It is that I must not wear a shirt. Right?
Jenny: Oh, right. Right right right.
Kristin: That's the only semblance of self that he remembers.
Jenny: Also, hey, hello, alert, red alert, he has blood on his mouth.
Kristin: Yes, literal red alert.
Jenny: Maybe he ate a dude and then stole the dude's pants. Or maybe he just had a snack of a dude.
Kristin: A snack of a dude? [laughs]
Jenny: I mean, we never really talk about, like- how do people die so immediately from vampire bites? It's not like you could- how many liters would- we have, like, eight liters of blood in us, or something?
Kristin: Oh, are you doing some… hellmath over there?
Jenny: Well, I just- I'm just asking some questions that would then allow me to do some hellmath.
Kristin: Okay, yes, so eight liters of blood-
Jenny: Or whatever.
Kristin: And you need to lose- [Jenny laughs] 47% of those liters.
Jenny: Uhh… is that real?!
Kristin: No!
Jenny: Oh.
Kristin: I just made it up.
Jenny: That's some good hellmath.
Kristin: Yeah.
NOTES: [hellmath jingle plays] Hellmath!
Jenny: I guess there's really no reason for me to be giving Angel, fresh from a hell-dimension, the benefit of the doubt, but I would like to believe that either that blood on his mouth is from, like, a rat…
Kristin: [signs] Yeah… I don't…
Jenny: Or, uh…
Kristin: What you're doing is why this episode is troublesome!
Jenny: Fuck! [Kristin laughs] Sorry.
Kristin: You're giving Angel an out, and I don't know that Angel deserves an out. Whatever. But, first of all, I want to just get back to the hellmath for a second, because I am certain that somebody listening to this podcast knows how many liters of blood you need to lose before you die-
Jenny: And also how many you had to begin with.
Kristin: Right, so can you let us-
Jenny: Thus yielding a percentage.
Kristin: I would love to know, and once we get that information from whomever you are, or all of you, because maybe there's multiple people who know the answer-
Jenny: [sarcastically] Maybe there's multiple people.
Kristin: Then we can report back, and we can know how many liters of blood a vampire drinks, you know?
Jenny: Yes, please let us know at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com. [Kristin laughs] Or tweet at us @bufferingcast.
Kristin: Um, so, right. So Angel has pants. Angel has a bloody mouth and we never learn what this is from. And Buffy sees Angel for the first time-
Jenny: And is like [high-pitched and drawn out] "What?!" Get outta here!
Kristin: [laughs] For those of you who don't watch BoJack Horseman, that is a reference-
Jenny: We're rewatching it.
Kristin: We're rewatching it and that is a reference from the first season of BoJack Horseman.
Jenny: Great.
NOTES: [AD BREAK]
Kristin: Today's episode is supported by Book of the Month. Book of the Month pores through hundreds of new books every month and they select five new hardcover releases that are super worth your read. You pick your favorite every month and they ship it right to your doorstep. From there, you get to just make a cup of tea and curl up and get lost in a really great story and then you get to come back next month and do it all over again. Let's be real, if ever there were a time to pick up a good book and give yourself a moment to decompress from all that is going on in the world, that time is now. No matter how often you read, you'll also save money on the books that you love with lower prices and free shipping. Just go on over to bookofthemonth.com/buffering to see their current selections and you get your first book for just $9.99. That's bookofthemonth.com/buffering to getyour first book for just $9.99. Book of the Month: bound to delight.
Jenny: Today's episode is also brought to you by Away. Away offers high-quality luggage that is designed to be resilient, resourceful, and essential to the way you travel. Available in a variety of colors and four sizes, the Away suitcase is lightweight and made with premium German polycarbonate that's unrivaled in strength and impact resistance, just like the slayer. It also features a TSA-approved combination lock, four 360 degree spinner wheels, and a patent-pending compression system to help all you overpackers out there, like me. And holy smokes, both sizes of the carry-on are able to charge your USB-powered device. A single charge will power your iPhone five times over. Seriously, I am the kind of person whose is always dying when I travel and having this suitcase has been a game changer for me and it can be for you too. You can try out Away for 100 days and if at any point you decide it's not for you, return it for a full refund. And thank to Away's lifetime warranty, if anything breaks, they'll fix it so you've got nothing to lose. For $20 off a suitcase, visit awaytravel.com/buffy and use promo code 'Buffy' at checkout. That's awaytravel.com/buffy, promo code 'Buffy' for $20 off your Away suitcase.
Kristin: Today's episode was also brought to you by Care Of. Sometimes you just can't get all the nutrients you need from that butcher-bought pint of blood, you know? Vitamins and supplements are one of the best, most basic ways to ensure that vampires are meeting their body's nutrition needs. But it can be so hard to figure out which ones to take, especially at the drugstore when no one wants to help you out because your vamp face is showing. Thankfully, Care Of is a new vitamins company that is here to help. On their site, they ask you questions about your diet and your health goals and they recommend the best supplements for you. It's a really easy process that just takes a few minutes, so you'll still have time to brood. Then they send you your supplements and personalized daily packs and they only use the best ingredients in their vitamins and supplements. Plus, you actually save money by getting your vitamins through Care Of rather than your local health food store. Please note that this vitamin service is also really great for humans, werewolves, and praying mantises. Go to takecareof.com now and get a personalized recommendation. Then use our code 'Buffering' and get 50% off your first month. That's takecareof.com, offer code 'Buffering' for 50% off your first month.
NOTES: [END AD BREAK]
Kristin: Okay, so Angel's back, holy shit. We knew that from last week because we saw his naked wet body fall out of the sky. Then we go to the morgue.
Jenny: Oh my gosh, Xander. Can't. Handle it.
Kristin: To be honest, none of them can.
Jenny: Cordelia. Can't. Handle it. Willow gets done what needs to get done.
Kristin: Yeah and I'm, like, bummed- I just am a little bummed that she faints at the end because I really liked the dynamic that was set up where Xander and Cordelia couldn't handle it and Willow was just grabbing some hair samples from the body and, like, totally chill.
Jenny: I don't think that- to me- to my mind, to my viewer's heart, I feel like Willow doesn't lose any points for fainting at the end. She is steely and gets it the hell done.
Kristin: [laughs] And you know, maybe she faints not because of being in the morgue and the dead body, but because she's really overwhelmed with wondering if it is Oz or not.
Jenny: Totally!
Kristin: Right?
Jenny: She's got a lot more going on emotionally, I think, than the other two.
Kristin: Right. Oh, Willow!
Jenny: I know!
Kristin: Can we play Willow's jingle?
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Great.
NOTES: [Willow's jingle plays] Who knows the square root of 1225? Willow! Who's gentle of heart and nimble with a hard drive? Willow! Willow, Willow, Willow.
Kristin: Ugh, Willow. So Willow's jingle, a few of you have written to us and have been like "Is Willow going to get different jingles?" And Willow grows so much as a character. And they all do, but I just feel like Willow's going to wind up with at least three jingles, is all I'm saying.
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah, that sounds about right.
Kristin: Because already that jingle feels a little bit dated to me. You know?
Jenny: Yes, that was Willow 1.0.
Kristin: Right and we're already moving into Willow 2.0 at this point. Okay, so Willow passes out but before she does, we see Cordelia hold her nose, which is not sensical because we're in the morgue where it shouldn't smell, in the morgue, right?
Jenny: I don't know, don't bodies decay?
Kristin: Well yeah, but they're in the morgue, so they're cold. They're kept in little refrigerators.
Jenny: Yeah, but I feel like they're still decaying at some kind of rate.
Kristin: [laughs] Oh boy.
Jenny: Because they haven't yet gone to the funeral home where they'll be-
Kristin: Embalmed?
Jenny: Embalmed, yeah.
Kristin: Okay, so I don't know. Maybe the same person who answered the last question about blood can-
Jenny: Yeah, while you're at it…
Kristin: Do bodies smell in the morgue?
Jenny: I think somebody has written to us who formerly worked at a morgue.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: So if you're still listening [Kristin laughs], if we haven't scared you away.
Kristin: Xander has a great line: "We're doing crime here, don't sneak up during crime."
Jenny: Yeah, one more check in the positive column for Xander.
Kristin: Yeah, and I need to note that Willow has brought her morgue inspection supplies [Jenny laughs] in a Scooby Doo lunchbox!
Jenny: What?!
Kristin: It's so great, a little shoutout for the Scoobies there.
Jenny: Yeah, it's great. Okay, so then, back at Vamp Mansion-
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Buffy's like, "I gotta restrain this guy…"
Kristin: Wait, wait. Before that happens, the scene opens with all of Drusilla's dolls.
Jenny: Right, she's fucking digging around for restraints and she's like, "Get Miss Edith and all of her cronies out of my way. [Kristin laughs] I'm looking for manacles!"
Kristin: Which of course, you can find in the mansion.
Jenny: Of course.
Kristin: Probably many sets of manacles.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah. She just settled on this set, the first one she found.
Kristin: But something we learn is that Spike didn't pack Dru's dolls when he took her away!
Jenny: Rude.
Kristin: Right?!
Jenny: I wonder how that's gonna play out.
Kristin: I don't think it's gonna go well for them.
Jenny: If I was Drusilla, I would be like "No no no no no."
Kristin: I mean, those dolls were really integral to Drusilla's existence.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: So anyhow…
Jenny: Their little blindfolds. [They both laugh]
Kristin: The manacles… whatever.
Jenny: Buffy's like, [sarcastically] "Oh look, a random metal sconce sticking out of the wall."
Kristin: Yeah, like there's so many things he could have been chained to that weren't pull-offable.
Jenny: Pull-offable and also, like, prevent him from laying down.
Kristin: Right and also, how is he gonna go to the bathroom?
Jenny: Do vampires go to the bathroom?
Kristin: We never figured that out, right?
Jenny: I feel like there must be a point at which we see a vampire peeing in an alley.
Kristin: Yes and I think many of us know who that vampire is.
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah.
Kristin: But also that vampire may just be peeing in an alley for character?
Jenny: Yeah. It's like, they don't have to pee but they can if they feel like it for effect.
Kristin: [laughing] Right.
Jenny: Great.
Kristin: Great. And also, what happens next, Jenny?
Jenny: Wow, one other thing going on at Vamp Mansion. [laughs] What does this remind us- it's like a Wile E. Coyote…
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Dynamite mark. [Kristin laughs] There's just like an Angel shape.
Kristin: But it is too small.
Jenny: It's not the right size.
Kristin: No.
Jenny: It's like in- did you ever see Cloverfield?
Kristin: I didn't.
Jenny: Well, Cloverfield is a movie…
Kristin: Yeah. The head of the Statue of Liberty flying down the streets.
Jenny: The head of the Statue of Liberty is way too small.
Kristin: Oh is it?
Jenny: Proportionately way way way too small.
Kristin: You know, I've stood in the head of the Statue of Liberty.
Jenny: As have I.
Kristin: You know it blows in the wind?
Jenny: You wouldn't be able to- that's horrifying.
Kristin: It blows in the wind.
Jenny: You wouldn't be able to fit inside the head of the Statue of Liberty that they show in Cloverfield.
Kristin: Oh, that they show in Cloverfield?
Jenny: Offensive.
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: I was so mad.
Kristin: Okay, wow.
Jenny: Still, I haven't let it go.
Kristin: I see.
Jenny: In 15 years [laughing].
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah, so Angel's burned body mark is definitely the high comedy point of this episode.
Jenny: Hilarious.
Kristin: And then we go-
Jenny: Oh, but speaking of high comedy.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Here we have Faith dancing to some rock and roll with her Discman.
Kristin: You can't do that!
Jenny: Now what- Kristin. Kristin. Tell me about why you can't do that.
Kristin: Because the disc will skip. Listen-
Jenny: Okay, but what about the skip-free technology that was developed?
Kristin: I know. That skip-free technology is bullshit is what I say to skip-free technology. I had a great Discman-
Jenny: Uh huh.
Kristin: That I would take to the YMCA on 23rd street in New York City.
Jenny: God, a Discman at the gym. Fuck.
Kristin: A Discman at the gym and I would put my Eminem and my Pink Misundaztood CDs in the Discman-
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: To work out. Those were my workout CDs in the early 2000s, so deal with it.
Jenny: Wow. Things are different now.
Kristin: I would probably still get a good workout from both of those CDs.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: And if I didn't put the Discman into the elliptical machine, right? Like, sat it in the thing, then it would skip.
Jenny: Right. Wow.
Kristin: If I even picked it up one time, it would skip. So I do not believe that Faith is actually able to dance and listen to this music. She is the slayer though.
Jenny: It may be a question of metaphittics, again.
Kristin: Right and maybe slayers move so quickly that… the disc doesn't have- it's like popcorn on the rollercoaster, you know?
Jenny: [laughs] What?!
Kristin: You know how on Mr. Wizard-
Jenny: No!
Kristin: When they took the popcorn on the rollercoaster, it didn't fall out because of physics.
Jenny: Because of centrifugal force?
Kristin: Yeah and so maybe Faith is moving at a speed that is exactly the speed that the Discman needs to not skip.
Jenny: Uhhh… yes. I think that's what's-
Kristin: You know, you're a little too skeptical for my liking. I think I'm dropping some good science down here.
Jenny: No, I like it a lot.
Kristin: Great.
Jenny: So Faith is dancing. Buffy taps her on the shoulder. She elbows Buffy in the face. It's great.
Kristin: Does she elbow her? I thought she flat out punched her in the face.
Jenny: Oh, does she punch her?
Kristin: I think she punches her.
Jenny: I thought she backwards elbowed her.
Kristin: Well, maybe she does.
Jenny: Well, anyway.
Kristin: [laughs] Okay, so Faith leaves to not sleep, but to slay more vampires.
Jenny: Uh huh.
Kristin: Faith doesn't sleep, I don't think.
Jenny: No.
Kristin: And Buffy stays in the library to, of course, do research. She gets the card catalog out…
Jenny: This is, I think, the first time we've seen anyone use the card catalog, right?
Kristin: Ah, I think so? I mean, I'm sure that Willow has used it many times but I don't know that we've seen her use it.
Jenny: Perhaps off-screen.
Kristin: I love a card catalog.
Jenny: Me too.
Kristin: How satisfying.
Jenny: I want one.
Kristin: Right? And so Buffy finds a book and falls asleep in the corner. [sweetly] And then Dad…
Jenny: Ugh, Dad.
Kristin: This is such a Dad scene. He walks in with his coffee and he opens the gate for Oz and then he goes up and he sees that Buffy's asleep and he kind of peeks over to see what she fell asleep reading.
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: Giles, we love you. You're such a good dad.
Jenny: Yeah, great dad.
Kristin: And he sees of course that Buffy is reading a book on Acathla and Buffy immediately couches it- she immediately hides any factual stuff in a dream, which is pretty smart. That's pretty quick thinking on her part.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: I mean, not smart in the sense that she is hiding someone who could be very dangerous and who very possibly has killed a person already.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: But smart just in the- 'good lie Buffy.' Buffy, we know, is not a great liar. She usually gets very flustered but she pulls it off in this scene and says "I had this dream, it was very vivid. Is there a possibility that Angel could come back and if he did, what would that be like?"
Jenny: And Giles, of course, is talking about "Well, time moves very differently. He's probably been tortured for hundreds of years at this point."
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: "And you know, it would take someone of extraordinary will and character to come back to some semblance of self."
Kristin: Right and this is where this complicated bit comes in, where he's talking about monsters, that there's two kinds of monsters. The kind of monster who wants to be redeemed and the kind of monster that is void of humanity and that cannot respond to reason or love. And so this is trying to set us up to be able to frame Angel in the good camp and Pete, who we haven't even gotten- the storyline between Pete and Debbie does not happen until halfway through the episode.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: Which is also tricky because you think you're watching one thing, and then all of a sudden, it becomes something else. But this is really complicated because it does draw a pretty hard line of what is acceptable and what is not and puts in the camp of acceptable just the desire for redemption, the desire to be better. Not being better, but just the desire. And I think that's very complicated and it gets more complicated because we have then this relationship between Pete and Debbie, which I think we're close to seeing how that comes to fruition.
Jenny: But not before-
Kristin: Wait, wait. Before we leave the library, I do want to point out that there's a poster hanging up behind Buffy that's two penguins with their beaks kissing.
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: And I love it and it's very cute and I feel like it's symbolic because penguins mate for life and they're talking about Angel and Buffy.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: Right?
Jenny: Woooow.
Kristin: I just feel like somebody in the props department was like "Hey guys…" [laughs]
Jenny: Do you want to get that poster for our home?
Kristin: [gasps] I would love to have that poster for our home [Jenny laughs]. It would be so nice. Oh, and then Willow comes in with the donuts. Is that where you were going or were we-
Jenny: No, go ahead.
Kristin: Willow comes in with donuts and Buffy and Willow have this moment that I feel is important, because it makes Giles' one eyebrow raise [laughing].
Jenny: Mmmm.
Kristin: Where Buffy was like, "Well, was it a vampire or was it a werewolf?" and totally disrespects the fact that Willow is struggling with-
Jenny: Yeah…
Kristin: Did her boyfriend kill somebody? And that Oz is right there and he's struggling with that. Buffy is immediately just like, "Hey, was it your boyfriend or mine? Because I would much rather it be yours." [Jenny laughs] Like, the fuck, Buffy?!
Jenny: Well, you know, this is really- this really ties into our little bonus additional interview with Jess Abbott last week.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Where we discussed Buffy's Capricornism. And here she is, being totally on mission and not really thinking about other people's feelings-
Kristin: No!
Jenny: While she plows ahead, just trying to get what she needs out of life.
Kristin: Right? So looking at you, Buff. We're looking at you. And we're really looking at you at the next scene.
Jenny: Because what you also need out of life, apparently, is an enormous plate of only Jello and also, the cafeteria is serving four varieties of Jello today.
Kristin: Yeah, I find that believable. I do feel like a cafeteria does often have many form of Jello. But, I don't know about- I mean, I guess high school. You eat weird things. I've already talked on the podcast about how I used to eat baby food so-
Jenny: Yeah. I mean, in my high school, I don't know what your high school was like, but we had a very regimented like "you get this and this and this- "
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: And you get a certain amount of each thing.
Kristin: You wouldn't even be allowed to take four Jellos.
Jenny: Four helpings of Jello and nothing else.
Kristin: Right. [laughs]
Jenny: Come on now.
Kristin: But hey, sure. And also, Jenny pointed out something in this scene that I found hilarious where you said "Debbie is such a Donna."
Jenny: She's a total Donna!
Kristin: Debbie is totally Donna from 90210. They're in the same high school, even. Maybe they're sisters.
Jenny: Same building, same hair…
Kristin: Yeah. Same general vibe. And then Pete, I mean- [sighs] Pete's just an asshole, obviously for many reasons. But his first [starts tripping up over the word] assholish-nesh- uh… ass-
Jenny: You're doing good.
Kristin: His first asshole-less- nope. Assholish- [they both laugh]
Jenny: His first… asshole moment.
Kristin: [overlapping] Assholish-ness.
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: Comes out in this scene where he says "Oh, you're really liking the manic depressive chick."
Jenny: [groans] Ugh.
Kristin: So shout out to Pete for being a dick.
Jenny: No good.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Okay. It's time for Buffy to check in on Angel now that she's had a conversation with Giles.
Kristin: This scene annoys me. She goes to the mansion and she's like, "Angel, do you understand me?" And then gets no response and decides "I know what I should do. I should put my hand on his back because he's probably, in the last six hours, [laughing] calmed down from hundreds of years of torture." It's just, I don't know. I get it. I get why the scene is there but it-
Jenny: I mean, he couldn't even get a good night's sleep.
Kristin: Because he was chained in the crouch position.
Jenny: Because he was unable to lay down. [Kristin laughs] How could he have gotten into a better mood or a better mental state?
Kristin: Right. So, I don't know. Whatever. Right. This scene happens and then it leaves and I'm glad when it's over because I didn't like it but I get its point. And then we go to the scene between Pete and Debbie.
Jenny: Yeah, they go to this utility area where Pete keeps his neon juice.
Kristin: Yeah. Just totally out in the open. Not suspicious at all.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: And Pete notices very early in the scene that the neon juice is depleted and says "Did you drink this, Debbie? Or what is going on here?" As we mentioned at the top of the episode, I was able to speak with Red McCormick, who is a friend of ours, a huge fan of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, and is somebody who has had extensive training talking with survivors of domestic violence and so- you know what unfolds in this scene if you've recently rewatched but you'll hear again from me on these points as we go into the interview. I think now would be a good time to unpack that.
NOTES: [INTERVIEW]
Kristin: Red, thank you so much for being on the podcast with us and for taking the time out to talk to us about this episode. I am so excited to have you here.
Red: Oh yeah, thank you so much for having me, Kristin.
Kristin: Thank you for both loving Buffy and also for having knowledge that can help us unpack some of the stuff in this episode. I want to start with Pete and Debbie, because they have a pattern of abuse that's shown, right? Where we see Pete blaming Debbie for the anger that he has, then Pete hitting Debbie, and then apologizing to Debbie after he's hit Debbie. And then we see Debbie, in response, wanting to help this suffering Pete who says he can't control himself and also as a result of the pattern, she thinks that the cycle is her fault. And you know way more than me, but this seems like a really common pattern in abusive relationships. So I'm hoping that you can expand on this a bit and maybe let us know some tools to either break out of the pattern yourself or to help someone break out of the pattern.
Red: Yeah, absolutely, and I mean, frequently in spaces like this, we'll just call it the cycle of abuse ourselves. It starts out with the honeymoon stage, which is what we call when everything's fine. Because you know, people think with abusive relationships that you enter into it and then the person just immediately starts hitting you and then you just stay for some unfathomable reason. But you know, generally the reason people get into and stay in relationships with people is because "they seem fine."
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Red: And then what ends up happening is past the honeymoon stage, there's escalation and then there's the explosion and then it just loops right back to the honeymoon stage, which can get shorter and shorter over time or it can get longer. It's difficult to predict when you're dealing with essentially a human volcano. And you end up making yourself feel responsible for managing it. Especially when the other person will frequently blame you for their problems as Pete does with Debbie. He puts all of his jealousy onto her and says "You make me do this, you drive me crazy." And Debbie buys into this lie that somehow, the actions of her boyfriend are her responsibility. Survivors are frequently put into this position where it's like, "Do you want him to hurt someone else?" But it's not really the responsibility of survivors to try and solve their abusive partner or to stand in the middle of the bullet and take it for someone else.
Kristin: Yeah. And so you brought up a couple of phrases that we actually hear in the episode and I think- even listening to you talk just for a short amount of time, it seems like it's really important for us to know as people how to help someone out of a situation like this, out of a relationship like this. And we see two people in the episode interact with Debbie in a way to "help". We see Oz notice that Debbie has a bruise on her eye, and he thinks maybe something is up and he sort of asks if she's okay and then gently lets her know he's there if she needs someone to talk to. And that's sort of the whole arc there between them. Then we see Buffy, and Buffy is really cornering Debbie and says things like "The best thing to do is not get hit." She says, "Anyone who loves you couldn't do this to you." And she says- and you brought this up earlier Red- "People could die if you don't do this. You should be the one to prevent this violence" is kind of how her character is set up to act in this situation. And I'm wondering some of the things that are wrong with what Buffy does and if there's anything right with what Oz does or what we can do if we know somebody who is in an abusive relationship like this one.
Red: Yeah, definitely. So I think Buffy very much wants to put Debbie in the position of being responsible for Pete's crimes, because she doesn't spend a lot of time ruminating on, or talking about, or even really much in conversation with Pete about, like, "These kind of behaviors are toxic, you should stop being so controlling" or whatever. She instead focuses her entire sort of wrath on Debbie as if Debbie is some sort of extension of Pete, rather than- or like the puppet behind the strings- as opposed to an individual being who's just caught up in the mess. And the show even seems to have a "she got what she deserved" sort of perspective when Buffy says "I think she was broken long before this happened." And then Debbie ends up dying by the end of the episode.
Kristin: Right.
Red: And so it's almost as if it's like, "Well, this is what you get when you get abused and don't behave in exactly the way people tell you to. You'll get murdered, I guess." It's not really a strong message and I think that Oz does the right thing, which is just telling her like, "Hey, I'm available. I can talk to you about this. I'm around to talk if there's something you want to talk about." Whether or not you as a person are "sure" that something is going on with someone else, trying to force yourself into their life and tell them how it is to do things and how it is to work through this relationship is just you trying to move- is you trying to adopt a different control relationship with the survivor that they already have with their abusive partner. Which is not how you help survivors get out of cycles. It's just you keep passing them between people who take control of their lives and tell them that if they just do what other people say, then they'll be completely fine. And also, it's not just saying that in person. I mean, even posting an article that you see online and saying "I'm available." I found that a lot of people have a lot easier time talking over Messenger than they ever would over the phone or in person or on Skype, because the internet allows a little bit of anonymizing, a little bit of distance between you and what it is that you're really talking about. I mean, I think Oz is a good stand-in that for that in a way because he's a very quiet character who makes a lot of space for other people. A lot of helping survivors is also just asking them what it is that they want. Because you know, that's something that no one's really- they're not being asked questions, they're just being asked to serve, often, in an abusive relationship. We used to describe it as asking "what" questions instead of "why" questions. So asking "What can I do to help you?" as opposed to "Why do you think he hit you?" The "why" thing makes it sound like they should have some sort of answer for this person and their drives and their personality, but it's hard to know why it is people do things. I mean, you can point to any number of events in their past but the fact is that they do it. What's more materially important is what that person needs to feel safe right now, even if it's just crashing on someone's couch or if it's going out for a cup of coffee or it's just being somewhere where they know their partner doesn't know that they are.
Kristin: Mm-hmm.
Red: Or just giving them some sort of outlet like other community, domestic violence or sexual assault centers or 1-800 hotlines numbers that give people the chance to picture interactions with others that don't involve them being manipulated. I think Oz moves in the right direction by trying to give her some space and say "You c an decide when you want to talk to me. I just want you to know that if you want to, I'm available."
NOTES: [END INTERVIEW]
Kristin: Thank you so much again to Red for talking with me and for being a part of this podcast. And just to remind you all, on our Patreon page for everyone, you don't need to be a patron supporter and on our Soundcloud channel, you can find the full interview with Red where we also talk about the complex triangle that's drawn here between Oz, Pete, and Angel.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: And we also talk a bit about queer relationships and abuse and how when we see things on television and in media that often set it up as the man is the one doing violence to the woman, it can really complicate when we have abuse happening in queer dynamics. So we talk a little bit about that as well, and you can check that out, you should check that out. It is Domestic Violence Awareness month. There is no time better than right now to learn a bit more about how you can be of help to people who are in situations like this and also how you can provide yourself with resources if you find yourself in a relationship that has any of these qualities.
Jenny: Yes. Okay, so Buffy goes to Platt's office and she's ready to spill her guts.
Kristin: Yeah and what is she going to say?!
Jenny: Get a weight off her shoulders-
Kristin: Was she about to tell a human?
Jenny: She's like "there's this guy who's a vampire who was re-ensouled [Kristin laughs] but then we had sex and he lost his soul and then I had to send him to a hell dimension because he was evil again."
Kristin: You know, if there was anyone who's going to believe it, I think it might have been Platt. I think Buffy was right on.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: I think Platt might have really listened.
Jenny: Unfortunately, as is indicated by his long-burning cigarette-
Kristin: Yeah, he had to be real still for that. Real still.
Jenny: Platt is dead.
Kristin: Dead kind of still.
Jenny: Platt has been mauled and…
Kristin: I really- this killing is confusing to me. Like-
Jenny: 'Cause how did he-
Kristin: How did he die that-
Jenny: Cause of death: eye scratch.
Kristin: [laughs] But also because it's painted as it happened so quick, he couldn't even move his- like, he didn't even drop his cigarette. But it doesn't look like it was quick.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: It looks like it was long and painful. So I don't really get that. Another thing I don't get is what the fuck is up with Pete's nails?
Jenny: Okay, so yeah. An important thing to note is that it doesn't seem like he's able to make a fist.
Kristin: Right. He just has these SWV-style nails-
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: I don't know if anyone gets that reference-
Jenny: Extreme nails.
Kristin: But SWV was a trio of singers in the 90s and one of their trademarks was that their nails were so long that they curled.
Jenny: I didn't know that.
Kristin: Yeah, it's a true fact. I remember it, I'll remember it forever. Pete's rocking those nails in his weird Jekyll-Hyde form. Which one's the bad one? Jekyll or Hyde?
Jenny: Hyde.
Kristin: In weird Hyde form.
Jenny: [chuckles] There you go.
Kristin: Also, plot points that are important is that they know that it's Pete because they've connected the dots.
Jenny: Right, right. After Oz gives Debbie his notes-
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: And notices that she has a black eye and tells her that if she needs to talk, he's there, he goes to the library where they're all talking about how Platt was killed during the day, thus-
Kristin: Willow is celebrating and then ashamed of her celebrations.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah yeah yeah, because it's definitely taking Oz out of the runnings as the killer.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: And then they put together, right, that Debbie was in jazz band with Jeff Walker-
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Where they would "horse around".
Kristin: Right, which Faith assumes means they were fucking. I'm sorry, [clears her throat] "screwing."
Jenny: Great.
Kristin: Or "kicking the gear shift" if you will.
Jenny: Right, I will. And then of course she was seeing Platt. Right?
Kristin: Right and at that conversation at lunch, she was like "I guess he's not as bad of a guy as I said he was" which set off Pete's alarm bells. And then Pete saw Oz… [pauses] touch her shoulder in the courtyard.
Jenny: [joking] And he squinted menacingly.
Kristin: Yeah, so we made the connection- we. Me and the Scoobies-
Jenny: Uh huh.
Kristin: Made the connection based on the other dudes but no one yet knows that Oz is part of that pattern, part of that list of men that must die.
Jenny: Uh huh.
Kristin: So then we go to this scene in the bathroom with the girls where Buffy is confronting Debbie. And we talked about this a little bit with Red, but what's really messed up here is the hypocrisy that we're seeing from Buffy. I mean, there's a lot messed up but one of the things that's messed up is the hypocrisy here. Buffy is saying things to Debbie like, "So while you two live out your Grimm fairy tale, two people are dead." And it's like, uhh, maybe some other people should be looking in the mirror here, because if we're going to talk about Grimm fairy tales and people dying, those are facts that can also be applied to your relationship, Buffy Summers.
Jenny: Yeah, and even if they couldn't, maybe just lay off the victim-blaming?
Kristin: Right, of course. That is incredibly troublesome, and how she's not comforting, she's not making space for Debbie at all-
Jenny: Right right right.
Kristin: She's really putting all of the pressure on Debbie to stop-
Jenny: Yeah. Blaming Debbie for Pete's bad behavior, both towards Debbie and also towards other people.
Kristin: Right, which is messed up- like you said, it's messed up on plane one. But plane two, where we know she's also kicking the gear shift with a soulless vampire who has killed people…
Jenny: Uh huh. More complicated.
Kristin: Is complicated. Also sidebar, Angel was how old? 241?
Jenny: [hesitantly] Yes.
Kristin: So now he's like, 467.
Jenny: Oh my god, [laughing] 'cause he was in a demon dimension.
Kristin: So just in case anyone's keeping track…
Jenny: Oh no! [Kristin laughs] The age gap widens! Maybe Buffy-
Kristin: I think once you get past 200 years, it's really all…
Jenny: How much of this do you think is Buffy talking to herself and projecting…
Kristin: Totally.
Jenny: Her thing. Like, trying to pep talk herself.
Kristin: Absolutely.
Jenny: In terms of "what are you doing, Buffy?"
Kristin: And I do- right and I do think that that is likely what is trying to be set up here. But I think what's complicated about it is that it's not set up in the clearest of manners, and I think it was likely very possible for people to watch this episode and think that the way that Buffy acted towards Debbie was totally fine.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: You know? Because you kind of need a background of information in your brain when talking about domestic violence and abuse of any kind to really draw the connections between these dots. And I think that if you're going to go into this in a media form, in any media form, you need to be a little bit more heavy-handed so that you make sure that people understand that the way that Buffy is handling things with Debbie is not helpful at all.
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: And it's really- Buffy's the hero of the show so of course it's not set up like she's really messed up, you know?
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: She's never- there's no culpability at all. She's not made to feel bad for her actions, at least not in this episode.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: Okay, so Pete finds Oz. There's this great, like, "Hey man, you're not going to understand what I'm about to tell you but" and then Pete's like [makes weird noises and Jenny laughs]. It kind of reminds me of "The Dark Age" when Angel gets possessed by the other demon who's like [makes more weird noises].
Jenny: Oh yes, sure.
Kristin: Very similar thing. And so then Oz is like "Oh shit! [Jenny laughs] I guess you will understand." And then there's this really cool- I mean, I found this fun, this showdown?
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Because Oz is such a pacifist. And you see it in the moment that Pete reaches into the cage and grabs him? Oz just goes limp, he doesn't try to fight back at all. He's just like "whoa" and then he knows that in a couple of minutes- and luckily Pete doesn't move as fast as he did with Platt.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Supposedly. [laughs] And Oz turns into our beloved gorilla werewolf.
Jenny: [happily] Yes.
Kristin: And they start to fight.
Jenny: It's wolf time! Wolf time in the Thunderdome! Saturday in the steelcage: two will enter, one will leave.
Kristin: [laughs] That's good, Jenny.
Jenny: Um, Jekyll-Hyde guy and werewolf, fighting each other. We don't get too many monster fights, I feel like, in this show.
Kristin: That's true, that's true.
Jenny: Usually it's human v. monster.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: But this is some Godzilla meets Mothra shit, [Kristin laughs] right here. And I am delighted to see two monsters fighting each other.
Kristin: Yeah, they're going at it and then of course, everyone hears what's happening at once. So it's like, Faith and Giles and Buffy and Willow, they all come from different angles in the school. They're all running to the double doors, they all rush in, they grab the tranquilizer gun. But Debbie is with them [Jenny laughs] and Debbie sees that they- and Debbie, I don't think, registers that it's a tranquilizer gun.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: So she just- Debbie literally thought that they were just gonna straight up kill Pete. And so she hits the gun [laughs] and so then Giles gets shot with the tranquilizer-
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: And goes down like a ton of British bricks [Jenny laughs]. And I asked Jenny if this counted as a Giles knock out and she said no.
Jenny: No, because no head trauma.
Kristin: No head trauma so we're not going to count it in our ding-ding-ding, how many times has Giles has gotten knocked out so far in the series. But Giles goes down. There's chaos. I think, what, Buffy hands Faith the gun?
Jenny: Yeah, I think so.
Kristin: And she's like, "I'll chase Pete, you get Oz."
Jenny: Yeah. So Faith and Willow go after Oz while Buffy pursues Pete, and Faith and Willow have a time of it. Faith ends up underneath the werewolf.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Willow quick-thinkingly pulls his tail!
Kristin: Pulls his tail which is a great moment.
Jenny: And is like "Hey you!" [Kristin laughs] or whatever and starts running away. And while the wolf is chasing her, Faith is able to take aim and tranq Oz.
Kristin: Right. So Oz is safe-
Jenny: Fast acting tranq darts.
Kristin: Yeah, they do. They act immediately. But I believe it. I don't know if that's true, but I believe it. I bought into it. So, right. Willow pulls the tail, it's the cutest thing I've ever seen. We go to Pete and Pete is now- he's jumped through the window. Now hold up for one second [Jenny laughs] because can we talk about the fact that Buffy is having a real hard time running in her shoes? I just feel like you see- the scene cuts to Buffy running down the hall and then we go to Faith and Willow running down the hall. Buffy is like "clunk clunk clickity clack clunk" [Jenny laughs] trying to catch Pete. And then Faith and Willow are in reasonable sneakers and are running at full clip, and I just think as the slayer, you might have a responsibility to either get better at running in heels…
Jenny: Mmmm.
Kristin: Or maybe just to wear some sneakers. It's just my suggestion.
Jenny: I have long wondered at anybody wearing heels for any purpose. [Kristin laughs] But especially if your sacred duty is to protect your town from vampires.
Kristin: Right and I've seen- it's not impossible to run in heels. You know who I bet you can run in heels like a badass?
Jenny: Cordelia?
Kristin: Oh well yes, but I was going to say Kate Leth [laughs].
Jenny: Oh! Yes, I would wager.
Kristin: I bet you Kate Leth could totally run in a pair of heels.
Jenny: Uh huh.
Kristin: But Buffy doesn't seem to have that gift, so just know your strengths and weaknesses, Buff, is all I'm saying.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: But she does see that Pete has gone through the window because he's left a bloody trail.
Jenny: And you know, it's interesting. He gets all the way through the window, basically up to his waist without leaving any blood. But then he just sticks his arm in all willy-nilly [Kristin laughs] and smears blood all over the window frame, before dropping down to the ground outside. I'm pretty sure that there was a door right there, but instead of going through the door, he went on top of the lockers and out the window.
Kristin: I think that the door to that room is on the outside of the school.
Jenny: [skeptically] Mmmm, okay.
Kristin: But still, it's- he could have just-
Jenny: No, I mean, a door leading out from the corridor that he's running down into the courtyard.
Kristin: Oh. Maybe.
Jenny: He just took a long cut is what I'm saying.
Kristin: Yes. He tried to throw her off the trail by smearing blood all over the wall [Jenny laughs] underneath the window which he used. So Pete lands in the thing and Debbie is there and Debbie is like, "I'm so glad they didn't hurt you."
Jenny and Kristin: [in unison] "Did you see?"
Jenny: [frustrated] Argh.
Kristin: "Did you see that I saved you," right? And this ties back into some of what Giles was saying where there's no reason. There's no reason at all that you can have or give to Pete to make him follow a train of logic. He is on his own track.
Jenny: Void of humanity, were Giles' words.
Kristin: Totally, right. He's just- he's lost it. So he doesn't hear this and he says- and also, speaking of the patriarchy, he immediately says to Debbie, "You're all the same. You're all the same." So this is obviously an issue for Pete that has been long-standing. We don't know who else he's referring to except, of course, for all women are the same.
Jenny: Uh huh.
Kristin: And then, as though things weren't complicated enough, who bursts in the door…
Jenny: One shirtless-
Kristin: One shirtless Angel.
Jenny: Recently re-ensouled vampire.
Kristin: And you're like, "Oh god, what's gonna happen?" Because we don't know as of this scene if he is able to just- if he's able to tell good from evil or if he is just a killer. Right?
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: And so we learn in this scene that he is able, apparently, to pick good from evil. He kills Pete and then he falls to his- he says "Buffy"-
Jenny: He devamps.
Kristin: He devamps, his little green eyes turn not green.
Jenny: Uh huh.
Kristin: And he falls to his knee- he says "Buffy" and then he falls to his knees and he holds Buffy. This is complicated.
Jenny: Um, he just killed a person?
Kristin: He just killed a person. Who is-
Jenny: Person-ish, monster-ish-
Kristin: But he is a person. I mean, they go kind of out of their way to tell us that he is a person.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: Even in the next scene, which we'll talk about in a second.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And he's killing- he's definitely killing a person who is doing a bad thing to save a person who's not doing a bad thing. But this is really grey! You mentioned, Jenny, that Batman is a villain who doesn't kill-
Jenny: Uh, hero? Batman is a hero?
Kristin: I'm sorry, I'm so sorry, that's what I meant. [laughs]
Jenny: How dare you.
Kristin: Batman is a hero!
Jenny: The Batman rule is of course that Batman doesn't kill bad guys, Batman apprehends bad guys and hogties them and makes them available for law enforcement individuals to process.
Kristin: Right, and you know, Angel was not a vampire who was killing people when he had a soul, prior.
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: And this is set up- again, it's really confusing because, right, it's like, he does go through this transformation but it's certainly not at all unlike a transformation that Oz goes under when he turns into a werewolf. He's not taking anything and it's just him, but is it just evil? It's just all very complicated.
Jenny: It's messy. It's very messy. And maybe it's supposed to be messy-
Kristin: But it's a TV show so they have to put a bow on the end of it.
Jenny: Right, but maybe the bow is not one episode long. You know what I mean?
Kristin: That's fair.
Jenny: Maybe this is going to open a door to lead us down a path for the rest of the season or part of the season or whatever.
Kristin: Yeah, that is fair. But in this episode-
Jenny: Ugh.
Kristin: If you take this episode alone, it's complicated because Angel comes out the hero and the redeemed, you know, monster…
Jenny: Right, but he did that by killing someone…
Kristin: Right and also… there's just a lot of layers to it that I think are very complicated.
Jenny: Also, just like, from a legal standpoint, everybody's talking the next day about that Pete killed Debbie, but who killed Pete?!
Kristin: Right. Well, we know how the Sunnydale police go [laughs].
Jenny: Yeah, that's true.
Kristin: They're pretty sloppy. And they also know there's demons so they just don't care.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: So right. Pete dies, Debbie dies and-
Jenny: We see that shot of Angel on his knees and he and Buffy are embracing and crying-
Kristin: And it pans out-
Jenny: And Pete and Debbie are both dead on the floor.
Kristin: Right. It's very complicated.
Jenny: Argh.
Kristin: I will say that this moment for Buffy, or I should say for Sarah Michelle Gellar, is really powerful for me. The way that she responds to being held by Angel has- all the layers that we just talked about are in her face.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: And it's really beautifully done. Like, she's overwhelmed, but not just like, "oh my god, thank god he's back." It's definitely- it doesn't read as that at all. It reads as…
Jenny: What the fuck?
Kristin: What the fuck is happening and how do I unpack this?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And I'm overwhelmed because I love him, but I'm overwhelmed because so much just happened. So we'll obviously continue to follow that with the series. But for now, we'll go on over to the next day. The scene I like to call "the next day."
Jenny: [laughs] Great.
Kristin: Where they're all walking, the Scoobies are walking. Just another day.
Jenny: Just recapping. We didn't get a chance to talk about this last night because the scene ended [Kristin laughs] so let's just sort this all out together now.
Kristin: So there's an estrogen theory going around school, which is-
Jenny: Wow!
Kristin: I mean, normally we just do the jingle once Jenny.
Jenny: Shocking [laughs].
Kristin: But I'm just going to go out on a fucking limb here and say let's play it one more time for the theory that Pete was violent because he took his mother's estrogen pills.
NOTES: [Patriarchy jingle plays] [Organ music plays] The patriarchy!
NOTES: [Clap of thunder] Muahahahaha!
Jenny: How dare they?
Kristin: I mean, come on. But a great reflection of our actual society, thank you very much.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: But then we learn, of course, that Pete was not taking the potion anymore. This was just- it became just Pete. And this is what we were talking about with Angel and him being a human [sing-songy] and this being really complicated.
Jenny: Argh.
Kristin: So to sum it all up, we'd like to use the words of Cordelia for this episode in saying…
NOTES: [Sound clip plays]
Cordelia: Great, now I'm gonna be stuck with serious thoughts all day.
Jenny: Me too, Cordelia.
Kristin: Yes. Serious but very important thoughts and very timely for the month of October.
Jenny: Yes indeed. Well, hey. Thanks so much for listening. I'm Jenny Owen Youngs and when I'm not making this podcast and watching Buffy with Kristin, I am a musician, in general [Kristin laughs]. That's what I do, I make sounds that are melodic and occasionally have words. And you can learn more about me and hear some of my non-Buffy songs over at jennyowenyoungs.com/buffering and you can always give me a holler on Twitter @jennyowenyoungs.
Kristin: I am Kristin Russo and when I'm not watching Buffy, I am watching more Buff- no I'm just kidding. [Jenny laughs] When I'm not watching Buffy, I am helping LGBTQ human beings and their families and loved ones with my work over at everyoneisgay.com and mykidisgay.com. You can check out those websites. You can also learn about some of the other projects that I do over at my website at kristinnoeline.com. That's K-R-I-S-T-I-N-N-O-E-L-I-N-E. And that is also my Twitter handle.
Jenny: Nicely spelled.
Kristin: Thank you so much, Jenny.
Jenny: Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram at @bufferingcast. Join us! You can also email us anytime at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin: You can and if you want to help this podcast grow to even greater heights, you can rate and review us on iTunes. It helps people find the podcast, and we love when people find the podcast. Or… and/or you can go on over to our Patreon page. Patreon is a place where you can support at $1, $5, or $10 a month. You get really cool things like the Buffy Watch that we're all going to do before the live episode taping on the 14th. You also get things like chord sheets and the songs a week early, membership in the secret Facebook group. It's a cool place, I'm just saying. You find that cool place over at bufferingthevampireslayer.com and you click on 'Patreon'.
Jenny: And you know, we're not just on the internet, we're in real life.
Kristin: In 3D!
Jenny: In various ways. In fact I forgot to mention at the beginning of the show on Friday the 13th-
Kristin: Oooo, spooky!
Jenny: In October, I will be playing at the Troubadour in West Hollywood opening up for my good friend and musical genius Dan Wilson.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: So you can find out about that at jennyowenyoungs.com. Just click on "tour." And also Kristin and I together on the very next night-
Kristin: Very busy weekend.
Jenny: I know! We'll be doing a live taping of this very podcast they are listening to right now at NerdMelt. And our amazing guests will be Ira Madison III, Kate Leth, and Kristin Thune and you can get tickets and find out more at our website bufferingthevampireslayer.com. Click on "events."
Kristin: Woo hoo!
Jenny: Busy lady-palooza.
Kristin: I think we are mostly done. The only thing that we want to make sure to include are the resources that we told you we would provide at the end of the episode for survivors of domestic violence and all of us who really should be informed on these resources so we know of them so that we can help others as needed. The resources we'd like to share with you are the National Coalition of Anti-Violence Programs, the National Domestic Violence Hotline, the Battered Women's Justice Project, and then an incredible resource list of local places that are LGBT specific done by the NW network. All four of those links are going to be in the show notes. Now just one more note, those as you may have noticed are all specific to the United States and we know that many of you are listening outside the United States. So please use our email address bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com if you live in other countries and know of good resources and we will add those to the show notes as we get them.
Jenny: Well. Till next time…
Jenny and Kristin: Awooooooooo! Yeah. [Jenny Owen Youngs performing "Beauty and the Beasts" off the album "Songs from Season Three" by Buffering the Vampire Slayer] Tell it straight, tell it true Long-gone love come back to you Well it only make you lonely I been down that very well Kissed the bottom, live to tell And it only left me lonely It isn't like I asked for this Bury me beneath the weight of what I used to miss I'll be digging out forever now from under it Tugging on a thread that run me round and round Turn me inside out Oo-oo-oo-oo-oo Funny how you think you know What you feel and what you don't Well you just might catch a surprise Wind is calm, water smooth But a longing deep inside of you That's been sleeping might come creeping It isn't like I asked for this Bury me beneath the weight of what I used to miss I'll be digging out forever now from under it Tugging on a thread that run me round and round Turn me inside out Oo-oo-oo-oo-oo
Jenny: Today's show is supported by Book of the Month. Book of the Month makes discovering great new books easier than ever. Browse their five monthly selections and get your favorite shipped right to your door. Head over to bookofthemonth.com/buffering to see their current selections andget your first book for just $9.99. Book of the Month: Bou- [stutters and breaks down laughing]
Kristin: [laughs] Bound to delight.