Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 6.11: Gone
NOTES: [CHIME]
Jenny: Hey, everybody!
Kristin: Oh, hey! [laughing] Jenny, I can't see you, where are you?
Jenny: We-well, I don't know, but I did get a haircut.
Kristin: [laughs] Okay, listen-
Jenny: [simultaneously] Life imitates art!
Kristin: We're about to roll into the episode for Gone, which you probably know because you're here and it's the title of the file. So good work-good detective work on your end. We have a few news items. We have more events in the month of April than any human being should ever have? But hey, good on you if you're a patron of ours, because there's a lot of shit coming up. Are you ready?
Jenny: I am-I personally am not ready, but I feel like the listeners are.
Kristin: Great.
Jenny: Hit it.
Kristin: Tonight, Wednesday, April 14th, I will begin the first of a trio of movie watches with Joanna Robinson. Tonight is Army of Darkness.
Jenny: Hell yeah.
Kristin: I will finally learn who that guy is. What's his name?
Jenny: Oh, yeah. Bruce Campbell!
Kristin: Bruce Campbell!
Jenny: Ugh!
Kristin: Finally gonna learn who Bruce Campbell is. Tomorrow, Thursday, April 15th, Jenny will be introduced to the film Legally Blond by Morgan Lutich in the Buffering patron movie watch channel. You ready for Elle Woods, Jenny?
Jenny: I object! [Kristin laughs] Sustained!
Kristin: She's learned. Sticking on the movie watch theme for a minute, the other two Feels Like the First Time movie watches will be Thursday, April 22nd. We are watching The Covenant, AKA Abercrombie and Witch.
Jenny: Oh, boy.
Kristin: Wednesday, April 28th, we will be watching Tremors. All of those movie watches-all four of them-happen at 9 PM Eastern-
Jenny: Woo!
Kristin: 6 PM Pacific. And last but certainly not least on the event list, this Saturday, April 17th, Jenny Owen Youngs is gonna be playing a concert of Buffering the Vampire Slayer songs for all of our patrons. Jenny, are you ready?
Jenny: Step aside! Clear the path! Here they come! Jam-jam-jam.
Kristin: I have promised-[laughs] I promised Jenny that I would attend in small, inset formed dance to all of the music. I will say, not to brag, but I get my second COVID vaccination that morning, so-
Jenny: Ohh, so you may be throwing up?
Kristin: [simultaneously] My attendance is pending on-[laughs] yeah. My attendance is pending on my bodily reaction to the vaccine.
Jenny: Cool.
Kristin: [laughs] All of those events, and you can also become a patron if you're not already, at bufferingthevampireslayer.com.
Jenny: Now! With all this fluff out of the way, we can get to the real meat and potatoes…of the intro, here we go! [sings cheerful tune]
Kristin: I made the most horrified face at Jenny when she said "meat and potatoes." [both laugh]
Jenny: Well! This is usually where you'd hear the very sexy Sexual Tension Awards results, but because Wrecked is a uniquely sex-less episode [both laugh] and tension-less episode, we decided to categorize this particular contest as the Most Dynamic Duo Awards. And thus…it is my pleasure to present to you the results of our Twitter poll. Tied for third place…we have, with each garnering 21% of the vote, we've got Dawn and Bare-handing Hot Quesadillas. [Kristin laughs] Nice. And Buffy plus 10,000 Garlic Braids. I love it. In second place, everyone's favorite fucking razzle-dazzle demon, Razzmatazz, and the Drama! [Kristin laughs] 23% of the vote, congrats.
Kristin: Uh-huh.
Jenny: But none can stand-none can hope to stand-
Kristin: Congrats-matazz.
Jenny: Oh my god. [both laugh] But none can hope to stand against the most dynamic duo'ing of all time, of course. It's Anya and Bridal Magazines with 35% of the vote. First place. [sings bridal march tune]
Kristin: [laughs] Wow.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Wow!
Kristin: Wow. I mean, you know, Anya earned this award because as you will soon find out, in our discussion of Gone, she's still at the wedding planning. She is just… Anya gone wild.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Listen. Speaking of people gone wild-
Jenny: Mmm!
Kristin: I wanna bring up Glory. Weird, I know. [Jenny gasps] Season 6, why would you bring up Glory? It's because last week, Jenny and I got the chance to hang out with one Clare Kramer. Because Clare is starting a podcast called Fanaddicts-spelled fan-addicts. And she hung out with us to talk about the podcast. First, before I even go any further, let me share a little snip of our conversation with you all so you can learn about Fanaddicts. Cool?
Jenny: Cool.
NOTES: [Clip begins]
Kristin: Hi!
Clare: Hi, guys!
Kristin: We're really so happy to get a chance to talk to you again. And you have-I mean, you have a podcast that's really fucking cool.
Clare: Well-
Kristin: Is it okay to curse?
Clare: Yes!
Kristin: I know this is technically our podcast, but-[laughs]
Clare: It's totally fucking okay to curse. [Kristin and Jenny laugh] In fact, all my children curse. You know what they actually say? I'm not even kidding-that cursing is a sign of high intelligence. [laughs]
Kristin: So you're starting a podcast about everyone's favorite curse words.
Clare: Right, I mean…
NOTES: [Jenny and Kristin laugh]
Kristin: That is not-that is-I'm misinforming everyone. That is not what your podcast is about.
Clare: It may be! I mean, okay.
Kristin: [simultaneously] But hey, a new idea.
NOTES: [everyone laughs]
Clare: The thing is, the podcast-it is called Fanaddicts. It is a really fun show that I am producing with Roddenberry Entertainment, who of course are the creators of Star Trek. My co host, David Magidoff, who is an awesome guy. We can talk about him later. It's called Fanaddicts because people come on-you know, celebrities come on and we ask them to talk about what they are completely obsessed with. And we kinda say, you know, you may know, for example, Tony Hale from Veep and from, you know, this project and that project. But we're not gonna talk about any of that today. We're gonna talk about his love for indoor malls. And we end up just having the most interesting conversations and they-if I had to say one thing about the show and what I've learned about, like, humanity, is like, it's true what people say. Your youth influences you and continues to shade and shadow your adulthood. Because most of the times when we dial really into, like, where did this love come from? It dials back to the childhood, in a lot of different ways.
Kristin: I imagine that finding out what somebody is truly obsessed with is just hugely revealing to show much else about their personality. It's like, way more-I think it's way more vulnerable, in a good way, to talk about that than like, maybe the most recent project you've been working on or what have you. They've told those stories so many times and I think that, like, even for Jenny and I, like, if somebody asked us about, like, "how did you start the podcast?" Right, you just fall-I know she's gonna talk first, I know what she's gonna say, I know what I'm gonna-
Clare: Mmhmm.
Kristin: You just have your rhythm. And whenever something comes up, I think, that you haven't talked about before, your brain just works differently.
Clare: Yes. You know, I think that, as an artist in this industry, and now there's so many, you know, interview scenarios and requests and requirements for pushing projects, that it's really nice to have talent be able to come on a show and push aside that whole career thing-
Kristin: Yeah.
Clare: And just talk about something else they're passionate about.
Kristin: Yeah.
NOTES: [Clip ends]
Jenny: You know, Kristin, of all the hell gods with whomst we have podcasted-
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Clare Kramer, top of the list. A-number one. What a fucking, like, VIP, MVP…[Kristin laughs] L-M-N-O-P, a-okay…
Kristin: [laughs] And G-O-D. You know?
Jenny: Yes! [both laugh] She rocks and rips so hard and I'm so pumped-
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: To listen to Fanaddicts when it comes out.
Kristin: I am too. We had-so our plan was to, like, talk to Clare and give you that little snippet. But we wound up talking to Clare for, like, 45 minutes about things such as Jenny's obsession with murder mysteries-
Jenny: No! [laughs]
Kristin: My obsession with fixing my own plumbing. Clare's journey with cheerleading, post-Bring It On, you may have heard of that movie.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And then we spent, like, the last half of our conversation, getting Clare's entire astrological chart read. So…[laughs] we loved it so much that we're putting up the whole episode here in the main feed next Thursday. So stay tuned. It's gonna go up on Thursday, April 22nd, which is also the day that Fanaddicts premieres. Just a huge thank you to Clare for talking to us and you should get excited. Because you know what I realized, Jenny? Is like, we talk about Buffy the Vampire Slayer a lot. And that's great, that's what we're here to do.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: But it was just such a delight to have a conversation that was not about Buffy the Vampire Slayer. [Jenny laughs] Where we just were, like, having a blast with Clare Kramer. Anyhow.
Jenny: Yeah. You know how everyone's always saying, "We love it when you talk about stuff that isn't Buffy the Vampire Slayer. [Kristin laughs] Do that more." That's probably #1 feedback.
Kristin: They're like, "The podcast was really on track until April of 2021 when Kristin decided [Jenny laughs] that talking about Buffy the Vampire Slayer was not the main focus of the podcast." [laughs]
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: Anyway, I do think that you will really enjoy the full episode with Clare. I don't even know-April is just flying off the complete handle. Because we have, like, 47 movie watches as you already heard. And we also have so many episodes in this week. So today is Gone. Tomorrow, you're going to get the episode that we've been working with Natalie, who you may remember from the segment that she did with us in-episode on Willow and Willow's substance use arc. We have a complete spoiler-full conversation with Natalie. Jenny and I both sat down to have that conversation. And you will get that tomorrow. Next Wednesday, you've got Angel On Top and then next Thursday, you've got our conversation about many things, including astrology, with Clare Kramer.
Jenny: If discussing astrology with an actress who played a big bad on Buffy the Vampire Slayer is not queer culture, I don't know what is.
Kristin: Correct. Jenny, normally I would read an email, but we've taken up a lot of time in this intro and we need to go get invisible. So I will just let you know that a subject of a recent email, for you specifically, was [Jenny gasps] "meet the air-breathing fish with poisonous eggs" with a link to a Youtube video. [Jenny laughs] So I'll send that to you after we stop taping. [laughs]
Jenny: Hurray!
Kristin: Alright, let's go get Gone.
NOTES: [Buffering theme plays]
Jenny: Hello and welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer. A podcast where we are watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, one by one, spoiler-free, in tandem with Angel On Top. I…dear listener, [Kristin snorts] am Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: [laughing] Just stretching out your part of the intro. Finessing it. [both laugh] I-
Jenny: Oh, I'm sorry, I thought people enjoyed getting the ol' razzle-dazzle.
Kristin: [laughs] I am Kristin Russo and this week, we are-at 8 AM. We're recording this podcast at 8 AM. Jenny made us record it so early, so if we sound different-[Jenny laughs] if my voice sounds an octave lower, it's because I've just wrestled myself [both laugh] from my blankets. Yes, I am Kristin Russo. This week, hey, we are talking about Buffy, Season 6, Episode 11, Gone. You should stay tuned at the end of this podcast every other week for an original song, written by us, recapping the Buffy episode we are discussing. This week's song, I hope, will be invisible. But I guess you'll have to stay tuned to find out. [laughs]
Jenny: Uh-huh. Gone was written and directed by David Fury.
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: And originally aired on January 8th, 2002!
Kristin: We've made it to 2002. Look at us go. Jenny and I were just having a nice laugh about a recent post on the internet that referred to The Matrix as being released in the late [Jenny laughs] 1900s. So, [Jenny laughs harder] welcome, welcome.
Jenny: Help!
Kristin: We've made it past the late 1900s, everyone. This is the one where Buffy's invisible, really. But TV Guide tells us that this is the one where Buffy's efforts to help Willow's recovery are disrupted by a run-in with an intrusive social worker and a spat with Spike. Then, she's mistakenly zapped by an invisibility ray wielded by Jonathan, Warren and Tucker's brother. Just kidding, it says Andrew. At least she gets a new hairdo. Wow.
Jenny: Yay!
Kristin: Wow. Well. Off-off we go.
Jenny: I mean, it's adorable, the hairdo.
Kristin: Yes, I love Buffy's short hair. I've been sort of, like, very loosely mirroring Buffy's hair journey. At least, I did until the pandemic turned me back to a brunette. But I'm not planning on mirroring the haircut, though I do think it's…very nice. Just like Willow and Anya. [laughs]
Jenny: Okay, I was just wondering to myself, was Buffy wearing a wig in the last episode? Like, when did this haircut happen? How quickly did they write around it? Oh, right! This is-we've just come back after the holiday break. So-
Kristin: Right, and Sarah Michelle Gellar was like, yo, I wanna cut my hair. And they were like, that will align perfectly, thematically, with where your character's arc is going.
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: I have a lot of haircut feelings. We'll get there.
Jenny: [laughing] Okay.
Kristin: We'll get there. You think it's funny, but listen. There's a lot there, Jenny. Owen Youngs.
Jenny: Uh-huh. Uh-huh.
Kristin: But why don't we start at the beginning? Our Previously On is kind of lackluster, but you usually get all hyped up on the Previously Ons. [laughing] I don't know if you have anything to say there.
Jenny: No, no, no. I'm good, I'm set.
Kristin: Great. Basically, the Previously-the only notable thing, I think, in the Previously On is, remember that there's a trio? Remember them? Remember them? Cool, they're here. Yeah. Right.
Jenny: Distantly, mmhmm.
Kristin: So, we start in Willow's room, where Buffy and Dawn and Willow are gathered. Buffy is clearing-doing what she refers to as a magic clearance. They're basically clearing the house of anything that could be used for magical purposes, to help Willow in her recovery. Dawn is fucking pissed off.
Jenny: Uh, Dawn is so mad. She doesn't understand what we all know to be true, which is that to witches, [Kristin laughs] candles are like bongs.
Kristin: Yeah. [laughs]
Jenny: As they're cleaning out all of the magicky stuff, you know, obviously there's stuff Buffy can recognize on sight. But then there's stuff that Willow has to let her know about, including…
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Are you ready?
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: A peacock sculpture with two crystals inside-
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: That Tara left, which is the gayest thing-
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: That has ever happened on this show to date. Gayer than the levitatalingus.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Gayer than the vending machine.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Gayer than the crystal dildo. Yeah. It's gay.
Jenny: [laughing] Gayer than the crystal dildo.
Kristin: It's fucking gay. I agree with you. I was like, so, okay. You know, we had a brief discussion about who kept the crystal dildo, quickly-you know, quickly-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Called out as simply a joke, because we all know it was Tara's to begin with. So obviously, Tara kept the crystal dildo, fine. But I did draw sort of a connection here of like, there are probably many crystals used for many purposes in this room. Tara didn't take these peacock crystals. [pause] I didn't-I didn't know-I paused for a moment, Jenny, for you because I know that you sit up at night by the light of a candle [Jenny laughs] writing your jokes about-
Jenny: [laughing] How fucking dare you?
Kristin: Crystals and fucking-
Jenny: What?! [both laugh] No, no, no!
Kristin: I didn't know if you had any, like, 1080P HGTV turns of phrases to lay upon us. But-
Jenny: No, no, no.
Kristin: You just wanted to say the crystals are gay, yes. Crystals are canonically gay, just for the record. So-
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: [laughs] Dawn-I was like, really-I started this scene-I started the episode, like, very, very angry with Dawn. Like, I thought-I-it is inappropriate that she is fighting this in front of Willow, I think. You know, like, "Why do we have to get rid of this and why do we have to get rid of that?" So I was, like, pissed off at her.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Yeah.
Kristin: But then I thought about it as I was, like, transcribing my notes. And I was like, you know, the truth is that Dawn is, as we see in this episode-she's really upset about what happened last episode. And she's mad at Buffy and she's mad at Willow, and this is really-
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Just a vehicle for her to be fucking pissed. So I get it.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: [laughing] That was my emotional journey with Dawn. Thank you for listening. [Jenny laughs] So, Jenny. We go down to the living room and before Buffy goes to the couch, which I would also like to talk about. She's-Dawn's pissed off because Buffy says Kokopelli has to go into the bin with all of the other items that are being cleared. And I heard the word "Kokopelli" and suddenly, like-
Jenny: You were transported through time.
Kristin: The sky became tie-dye, yes, and I was sucked into it and transported back to the late 90s, when-to the late 1900s-when Kokopelli was everywhere. And I thought, oh, this is an interesting moment because, you know, back in the 1990s, I was definitely probably carrying around a keychain that had Kokopelli on it, completely unaware of the origin of Kokopelli or the problematic nature of the fact that I had probably purchased a keychain with Kokopelli on it. But here I am in 2021. Let me do a little bit of research. So, do you know anything about Kokopelli, apart from what we, as white children of the 90s, know about Kokopelli? [laughs]
Jenny: Uh…he's a dude with a flute.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: He seems pretty stoked. [Kristin laughs] I also am just projecting-
Kristin: [laughing] "He seems pretty stoked."
Jenny: He/him pronouns onto Kokopelli. [laughs]
Kristin: Uh-huh, that's-
Jenny: But you know, the vibe of the imaging of Kokopelli that I have beheld seems positive.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: And fun.
Kristin: Celebratory, mmhmm.
Jenny: I believe there's a, like, god of music and mischief kind of vibe.
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: This could be 90s head shop programming, so please. Tell me what you found.
Kristin: Well, and I-you know. [clears throat] This isn't, like, the deepest dive. I did not become a Kokopelli scholar overnight, but from the research that I did do, as you may have imagined, this is imagery rooted in native culture. Originally, seems to have originated with the Hopi people. And there's various versions. The image of Kokopelli has actually been sort of-like, it's evolved even in native cultures, from what I have come to understand. And Kokopelli has had other names and has also taken the form of an insect. And there's a lot-there's a lot there. Like, it wasn't just like, this is Kokopelli, this is who he has always been. Your choice of he/him pronouns, interesting, because Kokopelli-there are many versions of Kokopelli where, not only is he playing a flute, but he has a very large phallus.
Jenny: Whoa.
Kristin: Yeah. Not that having a very large phallus determines your pronouns, but just saying. That's there. In the episode, Kokopelli is connected to fertility and that is, like, loosely accurate. I mean, I think, you know, Kokopelli has been connected to fertility in connection with agriculture. There's a lot. There's a lot of history. I listened to a bit of a podcast or a radio recording that I'm gonna link in the show notes that was really fascinating. It's an episode of Native America Calling from
2019, it's pretty recent. And it's called "Kokopelli: origins, history and appropriation." The Pueblo peoples are also very connected to the image of Kokopelli. This podcast conversation has Jon Ghahate, Pueblo of Laguna and Zuni, Greg Cajete, Santa Clara Pueblo, and Daryn Melvin, who is Hopi. And they have a conversation about the history and the roots of Kokopelli. So I'm gonna leave it to them to dig deeper into this. But the, like, appropriative piece of it, I think, is-it's pretty clear. Like, we've talked a little bit about cultural appropriation and generally speaking, if, like, people are making money off of imagery or history of cultures that are not their own, of history that is not their own, that is appropriative. And it cannot be denied that Kokopelli was so fucking commodified in the 90s. [laughs] I found some-some, like, really extreme examples of the commodification of Kokopelli, like Golfer Pelli, a steel sculpture sold in a 1995 holiday catalogue that depicts a contemporary version of Kokopelli, but instead of a flute, he has a golf club. And the description of thisfor-sale sculpture is: "It is believed that Kokopelli could make the wind talk and call the clouds. Perhaps Golfer Pelli can improve your swing."
Jenny: Um…?
Kristin: If that isn't the most disgusting exa-like, that's it. That's just, like, you couldn't condense commodification of culture into a better fucking thing than that. Also, there's-there is a 30-foot tall Kokopelli statue in Arizona that used to be outside of, like, a souvenir trading post shop, that-that souvenir-which was also, I'm sure, problematic and not okay. But what's really just making matters worse is that that souvenir shop is now a Starbucks. So…
Jenny: No…
Kristin: In Arizona, there's just a Starbucks with a 32-foot-tall Kokopelli statue in front of it. So, just like, fucking-you know. I'm gonna-I'm just gonna play it. I might as well fucking play it. White people, especially, please stop. Please just stop. Let's play the White Supremacy jingle. [laughs]
NOTES: [WHITE SUPREMACY jingle plays] You know what that sounds like to me? (What?) White supremacy! (Oh no) Woven in not too subtly (Ugh) White supremacy! (Uh-uh) Open your eyes and that's where you'll find it Crush that (squash that) White supremacy!
Jenny: [sarcastically] I can't believe-I can't believe I'm learning there's more to Kokopelli than I was made aware of [Kristin laughs] by my visits to local head shop, Ahead of Our Tyme. [Kristin groans] Spelled with a Y. Time spelled with a Y.
Kristin: [simultaneously] God-oh, Ahead of Our Tyme with a Y, of course, yes, yes. [sighs] Wow. So, okay.
Jenny: Okay-
Kristin: One more thing happens in this scene, Jenny. Do you wanna talk about it?
Jenny: Oh my gosh. How many things have I lost in my couch cushions?
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: Quarters, pennies, nickels, dimes. [Kristin snickers] Uh, small, round, flat lithium batteries. [Kristin laughs]
Kristin: Anything else, Jenny? [laughs]
Jenny: Perhaps-not I, but perhaps some compact, well-muscled, undead man left this lighter here.
Kristin: Yeah. Good lighter. It's a classic Zippo. Totally a lighter that Spike would use to light his Morley cigarettes. I've been watching Twin Peaks and they have Morley cigarettes there and I always get very excited about, like, a universe-
Jenny: Oh, wow.
Kristin: In which Spike bumps into, you know, Diane and they buy a pack of Morley cigarettes together. [both laugh] Anyway, um…
Jenny: Buffy's, like, very conveniently timing her speech about giving into temptation and-
Kristin: Yes. She throws the lighter into the box of things that should be removed from the house to limit temptation. Certainly not for Willow's sake, but for her own. And Jenny, I had a bit of a flash here, because there's been another moment where Buffy has gone over to this exact couch, to this exact cushion, and found something that reminded her of an old beau. Do you remember? [laughs]
Jenny: Oh my god, I remember what it was! It was-[both laugh] inexplicably, it was an entire sweater. [Kristin laughs] An entire sweater that had been there for one to two months-
Kristin: Yep.
Jenny: By the time she discovered it, belonging to none other than Riley Finn.
Kristin: Yep!
Jenny: One military issue, green ribbed-fucking cadet sweater.
Kristin: [simultaneously] So just like, you know, I just-like, I wanna see the, like-the smash cut of, like, every boyfriend that Buffy has ever had-
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And the item that is hidden in the couch cushions from that boyfriend and how they line up.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Yeah, she's like, [dramatically] "oh, Owen was here. I know because here is an Emily Dickinson tome!"
Kristin: [laughs] "Oh, a handful of buttons. Angel must have been here." [both laugh] Anyway, we go to the lair. I just can't stop calling it a lair and I get mad at myself every time I write it in my notes. Because I know they don't deserve for it to be called a lair, but it's too late. It's over. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: There's so much-
Jenny: These nerds are turning a turn invisible. I-
Kristin: Yeah, they're turning a chair invisible. There's just a delightful, like, spread of late 90s, early aughts in the first bit of this scene, where like, Jonathan saunters over, eating a Twizzler, Andrew trailing behind in a Spongebob T-shirt.
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: And you're just like, whaa! [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Just hitting a lot of moments.
Jenny: They're going for it.
Kristin: Yeah, there's an invisible chair bit. We learn that the invisible ray gun works. That's what this scene is here for. It's…my favorite part of the invisible chair. Jonathan sits down in it, but before Jonathan sits down in it, Andrew is, like, touching it. And Andrew's miming hands are a delight, a delight. Andrew-[Jenny laughs] Andrew gets me every fucking time. He really does. Like, his expressions are wonderful, and he's just fun. So yeah. They turn the chair invisible. The thing works. There's a lot of, like, "cheer up, Frodo. More ILM, less Ed Wood." Lot of, like, "we are nerds, did you know we are nerds?" [Jenny laughs] ILM, just in case you were wondering, is Industrial Light Magic, which is the Lucas property that does the special effects for Star Wars, so.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: [singing] Nerds, nerds, nerds, nerds, nerds, nerds, nerds, nerds.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Credits!
Jenny: Um…[laughs] okay, it's breakfast time at the Summers house!
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: Willow, bringing back the Sunnydale classic of a matching pajama set.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: [makes siren noise] [Kristin laughs] Dawn does not want Willow's apology omelet.
Kristin: It's true.
Jenny: Dawn is huffing about.
Kristin: Yeah. And Buffy-something has gotten into Buffy's hair, because it is-it is, like, Lana del Ray level…[both laugh] I could only think of Lana del Ray, like, circa 2012 when I saw this wig on Buffy.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Yeah, no, that's appropriate. Yeah.
Kristin: Not that Lana del Ray was wearing-I don't even know if Lana del Ray was wearing a wig. But it is a wig. It is-you know that something must be about to happen to the hair of Buffy Summers-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Because it is just a bad wig. It's a bad wig. You know, I think we can all agree. Doesn't look very natural.
Jenny: It's flowing. It's doing its thing.
Kristin: So…yeah. So Willow is sort of-Buffy checks in on Willow, which I think is important. She's like, how are you doing? Willow's like, I'm doing a little bit better. I'm a little less shaky than I was, you know, yesterday or the day before or whatever. Dawn, really coming into her own as a teenager in this episode-finally, they have Dawn the characteristics of a fifteen-year-old. She's like, go fuck yourself. Fuck you. Fuck you. As you know, I'm watching Twin Peaks-
Jenny: Fuck your omelet.
Kristin: So I just am thinking of, like, the Diane energy of like, fuck you, Albert. [laughs] But it's Dawn and she's like, fuck you, Willow. Fuck you, Buffy. And Willow, when Dawn leaves-
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: Also notable is that Dawn's arm is in a sling. You know, like, Dawn is-
Jenny: Aww.
Kristin: Has been pretty hurt. And Dawn leaves and Willow is confused about why-like, she gets that Dawn is mad at her. But she doesn't understand why she's mad at Buffy. Buffy has a pretty astute moment, I think. And she's like, she's mad at me because you were drowning. You're my best friend and I didn't notice that you were drowning in your own experiences and your own trauma, because I was too wrapped up in my own stuff. And it's like, whaaaat!
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: Self-awareness, conversation!
Jenny: Buffy, this is good. You should do this more often.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: But in advance.
Kristin: Mmhmm. Might rob us of a season of television, though. [laughs]
Jenny: True. Smooth entrance from Spike.
Kristin: Aww. Your little matchgirl is back!
Jenny: [laughing] Yes, my little matchgirl is back. Looking for his lighter. Have you seen it? "No," she says. Buffy lies!
Kristin: Oh my god, it's fucking-"I took a stroll and I was in the neighborhood." Spike. Spike! Spike.
Jenny: Yes, good.
Kristin: Just tell the truth. You missed Buffy. Willow leaves the room, to Buffy's, like, sheer panic. Because she doesn't want to be alone with this, uh, marble vampire body-
Jenny: Hmm.
Kristin: That she simply cannot resist [laughs] and he-
Jenny: [laughs] Uh-huh.
Kristin: Spike is, you know, going in. "Well, if you don't want me to call you 'love,' what should I call you? Should I call you pet? Should I call you sweetheart? Should I call you Goldilocks?" [laughing] My, your hair looks odd, Goldilocks.
Jenny: [laughing] Yeah!
Kristin: And then Spike makes a really fucking gross comment that's just like, "I love the way your hair bounces when…" And we all-
Jenny: Blegh!
Kristin: Get ready to vomit, but don't worry, Buffy grabs a spatula. A lot of spatula action happening in the Buffy- and Angelverse, the last couple episodes. [laughs]
Jenny: It's true. Spike announces that this flapjack's not ready to be flipped, whatever that means. [Kristin laughs] And they are way too close to each other and there's some heavy breathing. And then, enter Xander!
Kristin: I mean, like, this is sexually intense. Like, this is-just to like, harken us back to a couple weeks ago when they knocked down a house and we were like, wow! This is…this is not what you wanted to be watching with your parents when you were twelve to fourteen years old.
Jenny: Uh, oh god!
Kristin: Or I'll say even 40. I don't-I still don't wanna watch this with my parents. [both laugh] But, like, this is-Buffy is like, don't, stop. But very clearly is like, don't stop. [laughs] And…yeah, Xander walks in. I mean, it-how does Xander not recognize what is happening here? It seems like-
Jenny: Yeah, that's ludicrous.
Kristin: Seems like-
Jenny: But he can't even conceive of it as a possible truth, because as he says, "Only a complete loser would ever hook up with you, Spike."
Kristin: Ugh! And then in a one-two punch, knocks our-two of our favorite characters down, without even taking a breath between it. "A simpleton like Harmony or a nutsack like Dru." Xander-
Jenny: How dare you, sir.
Kristin: Get outta here.
Jenny: No, no, no, no, no.
Kristin: Put respect back on Harmony's name and Drusilla's name.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: They both deserve it. And you know, in my opinion, Spike has pretty great taste. [both laugh] Ding-dong! Doris is here.
Jenny: Oh no!
Kristin: Oh, no!
Jenny: Well…that actress is Susan Ruttan, who was on L.A. Law!
Kristin: Ohh.
Jenny: For, like, six or seven years!
Kristin: Yeah, this an actress-
Jenny: [simultaneously] And also seems to have been on every show, ever?
Kristin: Right. Yes. She-Doris rings the bell and the door opens and you're like, that lady! Like, she's one of these actors that, like, just has been on every show for, like, at least a handful of episodes. [laughs] And you recognize her but you don't know why.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: She's like, it's Wednesday and that's when our appointment is. And Buffy's like, oh shit. I didn't even realize it was Wednesday. And it's sort of a comedy of errors with this social worker visit. Spike is refusing to leave the house. Dawn, as she left, was like, "What are you gonna do, crash another car with me inside of it?! Meh!" And like, you know, it's just-it's not going well.
Jenny: Oh my god. It's so painful to watch. [Kristin laughs] What a mess.
Kristin: Yeah. Spike does this, like, pivot where he's, at first, just like, "Uh, I'm fucking pissed! I'ma sit here." And then Buffy's like, uh, Doris from fucking social services. And then Spike bounces out of the chair and is like, "Buffy's a great mum."
NOTES: [Clip from episode plays]
Spike: Uh. Hey. Buffy's a great mum. She takes good care of her little sis. Like, um, when Dawn was hanging out too much in my crypt, Buffy put a right stop to it.
Doris: I'm sorry, did you say-
Buffy: Crib. Crib. [laughs nervously] He said crib.
Kristin: Then Buffy-I don't know why, I think she's just panicking. She makes the very poor decision to lie about who lives in the house and is like, just me and Dawn.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: Nobody else lives here. And Willow's like, okay, I'm taking my nap! Goodnight! [laughs]
Jenny: You know how you always yell down to your friends [both laughing] to let them know you're taking a nap?
Kristin: [laughs] That, like, kind of spins out this, do-does this social worker care about…a parental figure or guardian being gay? It's like, really glossed over, it happens really quickly. And it's kind of unclear-you can't really pin if the point was to show us that perhaps Doris will care. Or the point is that perhaps Buffy thinks Doris will care.
Jenny: Yeah…
Kristin: Right?
Jenny: Yeah. Doris makes a lot of faces over the course of this whole [Kristin laughs] sputter fest. But it's really not clear…what she feels.
Kristin: Like, it seems like Doris-not to give Doris too much credit, but it does seem like Doris is just trying to gather information. Like-you know, like, so-okay, so you live here. You live here with your girlfriend. Like, and I'm not-I don't mean to give Doris more credit than she deserves. But it isn't made clear. We can't easily say, like, wow, Doris is homophobic.
Jenny: I think…yeah, I think the biggest strike against Buffy from Doris' POV is that Buffy seems to have very little idea about what is going on. [laughs]
Kristin: Exactly. Exactly. She's like, uhh, yeah, no, that's not my boyfriend. His blanket? It's a security blanket. Uh, Willow? She's gay but I'm not gay. Anyway, it's Wednesday? What?
Jenny: We don't-we don't gay. [both laugh]
Kristin: Doris-
Jenny: This weed? Whoa-ho-ho!
Kristin: Yeah. [laughs]
Jenny: It's not what you think. It's actually magic weed. And it's not mine!
NOTES: [laughs]
Kristin: [simultaneously, laughing] Magic weed, why wouldn't you just say sage? It's sage! It's not magic weed!
Jenny: Just say sage, you maniac.
Kristin: What the fuck?
Jenny: [simultaneously] She's having a bad day.
Kristin: Buffy, get it together. Yeah, Buffy's having a bad day. And she's spiraling. The more she gets answers wrong, the more she gets answers wrong. We've all been there. And-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: I don't know my, like, formal opinion on social services as a state-sanctioned endeavor. I think that there is probably some stuff to unpack there, with like, where police are involved, where they are not, what's happening here, what have you. But Doris' opinion that her job is to look out for Dawn's best interests…and the stability of her home life does seem like something someone should be paying attention to.
Jenny: Sure, yeah. [laughs]
Kristin: And I think that her assessment of the environment is accurate. [laughs] I think-
Jenny: In a vacuum, where we have no opinions about anything else except Doris' self-described job description, and her assessment of the Summers household from this snapshot-
Kristin: [laughing] Yeah.
Jenny: Doris did nothing wrong.
Kristin: Yes. And her-her report is-what she tells Buffy is that Buffy is on probation. Which means that they're just going to be keeping a closer watch on what's happening, at-on Revello Drive. Which is unfortunate, because you don't really wanna pay close attention to what's happening here on Revello Drive at any point in time.
Jenny: No.
Kristin: It's usually never stable, safe, or good. [laughs] Unfortunately. So…
Jenny: No. So…Doris sweeps out. [Kristin sighs] Spike sweeps back in. There's a moment of against-the-wall, pocket-digging [Kristin laughs] that we think is one thing, but then it's just a lighter retrieval mission.
Kristin: "Against-the-wall pocket-digging." Third base! [laughs]
Jenny: Third base. Uh…then Spike sweeps out himself-
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Commenting on Buffy's hair as she [sic] goes, and thus, she is left with absolutely no option but to go off with the scissors.
Kristin: So…first of all, Buffy put the lighter-
Jenny: [singing to the tune of "Put Your Records On"] Go get your scissors out!
Kristin: Oh my god. Buffy put that lighter in that box, and that lighter is in Buffy's pocket. Which means that Buffy-
Jenny: Yeah, magic.
Kristin: Buffy put the lighter in that fucking box and then Buffy took the lighter out of that goddamn box.
Jenny: Yeah, she did.
Kristin: So…that is indicative of a thing. But yeah, let's go upstairs. Buffy goes upstairs. When we watched this episode in, like, pre-production of this season, I was screaming at my television. Because I have a culturally, um…a cultural moment-pop-cultural moment that shifted my experience as a living person on this planet was when Britney Spears shaved her head, publicly, during what was a horrific time in the life of Britney Spears, and a horrible time to witness what, like, media can do to a person. I have-I could do an entire podcast series on, like, Britney Spears and Britney Spears' journey. And other people, I'm sure, are doing that and there's a documentary, you can watch it. But when I saw Buffy cutting her hair-this is 2002. Britney Spears shaved her head in 2007. The early aughts were, like, a big time for me, as a person in my 20s also going through, like, mental health struggles and like, learning what anxiety was and what have you. Where I just have this very deep-rooted connection to women who cut their hair short and like, what that means and where that's rooted. And so-Jenny's looking at me like, ugh, god, why did I ever ask you to do a podcast with me? [laughs]
Jenny: No, no, no, I'm strapped in and ready for the drop!
Kristin: But like, you know, I mean, hair-you could talk about hair in a million ways, right? Hair has, like, massive significance across the span of time. But like, Buffy's cutting of her hair seems to be rooted in a place of, like, reclaiming-like, reclaiming power? Reclaiming, like, her ownership of herself, you know? Like, she's defining who she is. And I think that that's, like, a massive part of, like, Britney-to use a real person. And just in general, like, women cutting their hair-I mean. Queer culture, to bring it in, right? Like, the image of a lesbian with a shaved head is entirely-like, that narrative of like, a lesbian with short hair is this, like, rejection of feminine ideals. And this rejection of, like-
Jenny: Mm.
Kristin: What we are told we are supposed to do with our hair, as women. It's more complicated than that, but this podcast is not about haircuts. It's about-
Jenny: [sarcastically] Are we sure?
Kristin: I mean-
Jenny: We may have just had a fundamental shift.
Kristin: [laughs] But I just think that this is such a big thing. And it-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: It hits me personally. I think that there's a lot happening for Buffy. And I think that, like, if you look at the history of women and their hair, you will just find-actually, you might be listening to this podcast right now and you might be, like, writing me an email. Because you're like, Kristin, you have to watch this documentary or you have to-I'm sure that there is a [Jenny snickers] treasure trove of people smarter than me talking about women and their relationship to their hair. But had to bring-
Jenny: I thought you were gonna say, you might be listening to this podcast right now, angrily hacking off your [Kristin laughs] long, luscious locks. [both laugh]
Kristin: Feel free to use me ranting about women and their relationship to their hair as the soundtrack to your own haircut. Feel free.
Jenny: Hell yeah.
Kristin: More power to you. Everybody, cut off your fucking hair. But it's-it is so big. You know, Sarah Michelle Gellar, I guess, wanted to cut her hair. But it does seem quite amazing that, like, that moment for her as an actor aligned with this moment in Buffy's journey. Because Buffy is so deeply in a place where she is wanting to free herself from a particular emotional experience and an emotional place in life. And like, this image of herself from before and, like, reclaim some kind of new version of herself. And so there's-I just think there's mental health in this. I think that there's patriarchy in this. I'm playing the jingle later, so like, hold your patriarchy…bells and whistles for a minute, but-
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: Um…there's a lot. There's also, like-I don't think that Buffy cutting her hair has anything specifically to do with, like, her being desired by Spike. But I do-again, connecting it to, like-the quote that, like, Britney Spears said when she shaved her was, "I'm so sick of people touching my hair. I don't want people to touch me anymore." And like, removing this thing from herself was, like, a way to get people to leave her alone. And so, the fact that just before this scene, Spike is downstairs, saying how much he loves Buffy's hair, I think also is something to think about, about like, why she's chosen to cut her hair. So, wow! Kristin Noeline Russo, activated.
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: I'm so sorry and you're so welcome. [Jenny laughs] But I just, like, have a lot of fucking feelings, okay?
Jenny: Uh-huh. [both laugh] Well! It's off to the salon, isn't it?
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Because…uh, you know. Buffy didn't have any Youtube tutorial videos [Kristin laughs] to watch, nor did she have the emotional space to let them into her heart. And she's made a bit of a mess. Not so much of a mess that I think this stylist's reaction is warranted.
Kristin: Yeah. I agree.
Jenny: "I think I can work with this?" I don't know. Seems a little over the top. [Kristin laughs] But lo, across the street-
Kristin: [simultaneously] Oh god, I hope you noticed what I noticed.
Jenny: Some fucking nerds with an enormous freeze-ray gun-
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Very inconspicuous-are prepared to enter-here's their big plan-a waxing salon? They're going to go turn themselves invisible and watch women be waxed?
Kristin: Sunnydale has what is referred to on the window as "Bikini Wax Wednesdays." So. [both laugh] I just wanted to make sure that everyone knew that this trio of fucking dingdongs [Jenny groans] showed up for Bikini Wax Wednesdays with their invisible-
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Ray gun. Wow.
Jenny: Before they can do whatever the fuck they were gonna get up to, they see Buffy across the street. A scuffle over the freeze ray ensues and Buffy, one pylon, one dumpster, and maybe like, a tree and a fire hydrant are all invisible'd.
Kristin: [laughing] It's just like, this, like, mass-like, the way that-
Jenny: It ricochets.
Kristin: I mean, I know that this diamond has some quasi-quantum whatever Willow says about it. But it's really something, the way that it is working. So yeah, Buffy's invisible. She doesn't miss a fucking beat. She's just like, cool. Fucking…Dawn's in trouble, must be a Tuesday. Buffy's invisible, must be a Wednesday. [laughs] Like, moving-
Jenny: Bikini Wax Wednesday.
Kristin: [laughs] Bikini Wax Wednesday. Oh my god, our podcast releases on Bikini Wax Wednesdays. [laughs]
Jenny: Hurray! So…
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Buffy's invisible. Cut to a classic Buffy, like-[makes "whomp whomp" noise] [Kristin laughs] hard cut, scene change. "What happened to Buffy?" "She's gone." But oh, it's just the seating plan for Xander and Anya's upcoming wedding. Little do they know she's invisible, but now she's here. So, um, she's gonna let them know.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Also-I'm sorry, but don't skip over the-blah, blah, blah, Buffy can't sit with my parents. But then, Anya's like, but where do I put D'Hoffryn? I just feel like it's important-
Jenny: D'Hoffryn's gotta come to the wedding!
Kristin: Of course he does! And also, a note to anyone planning a wedding. Don't do wedding seating. Why would you do it to yourself? Just have giant tables and let people sit where they're gonna sit. Okay.
Jenny: Another word to the wise.
Kristin: Mmhmm?
Jenny: If your friend is invisible [Kristin laughs] and they are in the same room with you, don't reach out for them with your hands at boob height.
Kristin: Yeah. Xander.
Jenny: Just simply don't.
Kristin: Xander. I wish we had, like, a Xander honk, at this point, that we could just, like-
Jenny: Ooh!
Kristin: You know? Just like, a little honk, that every time Xander does something-
Jenny: Yeah, or a little spray bottle. [makes spray bottle sounds]
Kristin: [laughing] Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Jenny: Xander!
Kristin: Xander.
Jenny: Off!
Kristin: Hands at not-boob level. Haven't you learned? Really fun callback here to Marcy. And Out of…Mind, Out of Sight. "Have you been feeling ignored?" says Xander.
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: And Buffy says, "No, this isn't a Marcy deal." I love that they say her name. I thought it was, like, nice. Because the whole reason that Marcy disappeared is 'cause nobody fucking paid attention to her, so it was nice that, like, her name got a shout in this. Anya, starting the running bit here, caring much more about Buffy cutting her hair than Buffy being invisible, [Jenny laughs] which I love.
NOTES: [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah. "How short?"
Kristin: I mean, [laughing] apparently I also care more about Buffy cutting her hair than Buffy being invisible, since I just ranted about it for an hour and a half.
Jenny: Uh-huh, uh-huh, uh-huh. We get some…delightful floating painted balls. [Kristin laughs] And a skull. Buffy's just really-her slapstick instinct has been activated.
Kristin: She's having-she's having a blast. She says it. "This is kinda fun." She's happy because-you know, cutting your hair is one way to reinvent yourself. But I'll tell you, an even better way is get fucking struck by an invisibility ray and-
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Run around, fucking clanking eyeballs together and making a skull talk. That's fun. She's right, I get it.
Jenny: Listen, she's been under a lot of pressure lately and this seems like a nice release for her.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: She tells Xander and Anya to keep researching. She's gonna go for a walk.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: After she leaves, Xander and Anya are chatting some more and they're like, hmm. Could it be Willow?
Kristin: Right. So Xander goes over to the Summers house and he's going to talk to Willow. He does, like, a pretty decent job, I think, of-I mean. It's not perfect, but he does say-he asks Willow if she has done this and says, like, it-like, I'm not meaning to judge you. Relapse is a part of recovery. Like, he is approaching it, I think, with as much sensitivity as Xander can muster. But Willow is, of course, really pissed. Because she's-it's taking her so much effort to get through the day, at this point-
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Without the use of magic. So you know, that undercut feeling of, like, I'm working so hard and you still are just gonna assume that, like, if something magical happens, it's me.
Jenny: Yeah, it also probably doesn't help that, a millisecond before Xander opens the door, Willow is almost making a book fly to her, but then doesn't.
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah. Totally. Shoutout to Xander, a phrase I say so infrequently. But I love the line "rhymes with blinvisible." [laughs]
Jenny: Nice.
Kristin: It's real good. I laughed.
Jenny: I mean, it does.
Kristin: It does. It does. And-when you're writing the lyrics for this week's song, Jenny, you know, don't forget that invisible rhymes with blinvisible.
Jenny: Oooh! That's-
Kristin: You might not find that in a rhyme dictionary.
Jenny: Yeah, thank you. [laughing] That's very helpful.
Kristin: So…[laughs] you know, I think everyone has valid emotional responses in this scene. Like, Willow being angry makes sense. Xander thinking perhaps this was Willow also makes sense. And he says, let's not forget-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: The forgetting. Let's not forget that it was only, like, a couple episodes ago that you erased all of our minds and we almost died. Willow also goes for a walk. Everybody's taking walks. This episode is called Gone, colon, take a walk.
Jenny: [laughs] It's true.
Kristin: Out for a walk. [laughs] Invisible bitch.
Jenny: Meanwhile, at Nerd Central, it is revealed that the invisibility ray is fried. Their plan, which was all about naked women, has been ruined.
Kristin: So…Buffy is off, being a prankster. Just pranking all of Sunnydale with her invisible powers. She begins by telling this [laughs] unassuming woman, with her-
Jenny: This woman's just trying to, like, read a book on a bench, Buffy!
Kristin: [laughing] "A studded cap is not a good idea," she says, and throws this woman's hat into the trash bin.
Jenny: [laughs] Rude.
Kristin: Then she says, "So long, copper!" and hops into a fucking little cop-mobile, which-
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: Always a fan. Always a fan of stealing a cop-mobile from a cop when you're-
Jenny: "A little cop-mobile."
Kristin: [laughs] Invisible. That's what they're officially called.
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: When they do the really fucked up police budgets, one of the line items is, "little cop-mobiles." [laughs]
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: So. Buffy rides the little cop-mobile over to the social services building.
Jenny: Hmm…
Kristin: And pulls a prank on Doris Kroeger, which is pretty fucked up. I-like, I think this is pretty fucked up.
Jenny: It is fucked up but I will say, it is expertly…executed.
Kristin: Yes, that's true. She's essentially making Doris think that she is, like, losing her mind by moving her coffee mug. I just, like, panic-glanced at my coffee mug [laughs] when I said that.
Jenny: Same.
Kristin: Is it there? It's there, okay.
Jenny: I'm fine.
Kristin: [laughs] She's moving Doris' coffee mug back and forth. And she's, like, whispering "kill"-I mean, has Buffy just watched The Shining? Like, is that-like, where-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: She's so-she's whispering "kill, kill, kill." She types out on the keyboard, "all work and no play make Doris a dull girl." Literally taken from The Shining, of course. Doris is like, my mug is moving and it's talking to me. The supervisor sees that Doris is a dull girl, because all work and no play have made her that way. And he takes Doris off-[Jenny laughs] of the case. [laughs] You mentioned something, I think, in our last episode about the, like, change of the frame and how you can see, like, Willow in the frame before you were supposed to see Willow.
Jenny: Oh. Mmhmm?
Kristin: You can-the strings that are underneath the keyboard, pulling the keys down, are like, in full effect and you can see the-
Jenny: [laughing] Oh, no!
Kristin: Yeah. It's pretty funny.
Jenny: Also, I didn't, like, spend a long time looking at them. But there's definitely a J that's being hit over and over and over again. And there's no J in [Kristin laughs] "all work and no play make Doris a dull girl." [both laugh]
Kristin: [singing to the tune of the "Detective Angel" jingle] Detective Jenny!
Jenny: That's right. I wrote it down in my little notebook.
Kristin: Did you notice that as Invisi-Buffy leaves, she's whistling and she's whistling "Going Through the Motions"?
Jenny: [gasps] No! I did not notice that!
Kristin: Ahh. Yes.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: Pretty fun! Pretty fun!
Jenny: Yeah, I love that.
Kristin: Look at little Willow! She's just out there with her little can of spray paint. She's-this is very fun.
Jenny: Yeah, Scully'ing the day away.
Kristin: I would love to be able to spray paint invisible objects. It seems very satisfying. You know? To like, find the shape of an invisible thing by spray painting it. So she's found [Jenny laughs] the beginnings of a dumpster. She has found a-
Jenny: [laughs] The Beginnings of a Dumpster, the Jenny Owen Youngs story!
Kristin: [laughs] She's found a hydrant, which she hasn't spray painted, but she found some paint on it that happened after it was invisibilized.
Jenny: Uh-huh, uh-huh.
Kristin: And a pylon. She's also found tire marks. They'd skidded. And so Xander rolls up and Xander's like, what are you doing? And Willow's like, here is all the evidence I have found and gathered. [Jenny laughs] I think Xander serves to be more impressed with her, truthfully. But he goes back with the pylon to investigate the pylon properties with Anya. And Willow is like, I'm taking this fucking paint sample to-I don't understand what Willow does with the paint sample. Is she, like, pulling a fucking Mona Lisa from My Cousin Vinny shit right now? Is she like-
NOTES: [Clip from My Cousin Vinny plays]
Mona Lisa: The car that made these two equal-length tire marks had positraction. You can't make those marks without positraction, which was not available on the '64 Buick Skylark!
Kristin: Give me the deleted scene where Willow calls up Mona Lisa and they have a chat. Okay-
Jenny: Uh-huh. Yeah, you deserve it.
Kristin: I deserve it. So meanwhile, Spike is watching a horror movie that I don't think is real, 'cause I tried to find it and I couldn't.
Jenny: Oh.
Kristin: But we hear the line, "Oh my god, the blood, the blood." [Jenny laughs] And Spike's like, oh yeah, blood. That's a good idea.
Jenny: Yeah, mm, thirsty.
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah, it's like when you watch-if you're me and you watch a movie that has, like, a person smoking a cigarette. And I'm like, oh yeah, a cigarette. That sounds great. [both laugh] So, the door opens. Spike's like, ah, fucking ghost? We never get ghosts in Sunnydale. [Jenny laughs] And then the ghost…pushes Spike up against a wall and-
Jenny: And oops!
Kristin: Rips his shirt-oops! The biggest oops of all time. Whoops!
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Opens Spike's shirt and we're led to believe that the lips of one Buffy Summers on a particular part of the body-
Jenny: Whoa!
Kristin: Of Spike-I mean, I don't know what part. But-
Jenny: Whoa!
Kristin: Apparently it is a recognizable feeling, because Spike is like, "Buffy?"
Jenny: [laughing] Oh my god!
Kristin: What?! It is my job-
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: As the host of this podcast to talk about what happens on the television show.
Jenny: Here. Uh…other ways that Spike could know, maybe, that it might be Buffy. Uh…clocking the teeny-tiny size of the fingers, wrapped around his arms, pinning them to the wall. The-Buffy's perfume, probably. Uh…other stuff that I haven't thought of yet.
Kristin: Don't agree. I think it's very clear-
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: I think it's made very clear. Whatever.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: Talk to somebody else about it, not us. We're moving along.
Jenny: Alright. [laughs]
Kristin: So. [laughs] So, I'm laughing, but I'm about to go into, like, just a little bit of a serious place. Because Buffy says to Spike, once he recognizes what's going on, "I told you, stop trying to see me." And so, like, just a moment, please, wherewe recognize that Buffy is invisible. And she's chosen to do a few things: remove a woman's studded cap, psychologically torment Doris so that Dawn isn't at risk of being taken away from her, and visit Spike to have sex with him while invisible. And playing on the fact that she just told him in the last scene with him that she doesn't wanna see him anymore. And I think we've already talked about it. Obviously, there's a lot of fucking problematic shit going on the path from Spike to Buffy. But there's also a lot of really problematic shit going down the pathway from Buffy to Spike.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: Lot of saying shit and doing another thing happening in this dynamic.
Jenny: Last time I checked?
Kristin: Mmhmm?
Jenny: Saying one thing-
Kristin: Mmhmm?
Jenny: And doing something else-
Kristin: Mmhmm?
NOTES: [long pause]
Jenny: Pretty human.
Kristin: [laughs] I'm gonna-
Jenny: Also, not illegal.
Kristin: I'm gonna keep that pause in there and let you know that during that pause, Jenny's eyeballs made a complete 45-degree angle, up to the ceiling. [Jenny laughs] For that entire time, and she just sat, frozen, looking up at the ceiling. Okay. [clears throat] To the Magic Box we go. Anya still trying to figure out-I told you, Anya. Don't assign seating! It'll be so much easier for you. The py-
Jenny: Uh…"ew," she says. Touching the pylon. "An unpleasant tactile experience."
NOTES: [both laugh]
Kristin: Really, they do a good job with making it feel-like, I feel what they're feeling in this weird effect-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: That they use.
Jenny: It's gross.
Kristin: Takes me back to, like, a Blue Goo time, in this series.
Jenny: Ahh, yes. So-
Kristin: Yeah, Xander puts this together and is like, yo, whatever happened to this fucking pylon is gonna happen to Buffy. [laughs] And-
Jenny: Now why isn't it already happening to Buffy, one might wonder?
Kristin: Well, I mean, metaphytics-
Jenny: [simultaneously] Sure, the properties of a-right.
Kristin: But also, I think probably the integrity of-like, the molecular integrity of a pylon is a bit different than the molecular-
Jenny: [scoffs, laughs] Okay, Dr. Russo.
Kristin: [laughing] Excuse me, let me go get my lab coat.
Jenny: Beep-beep, you're needed-you're needed in the lab. [both laughing] You've been paged to the lab.
Kristin: Anyway. [Jenny laughs] Anya, on the level of my lab-coat-wearing self, looks basically to camera. She doesn't, but it feels like she looks to camera in this moment when she's like, "She's pudding?" It's like-[both laugh] it's just, like, a funny moment. 'Cause it doesn't really fit the rest of the, like, comedy but I still like it. The trio is arguing. Their constant argument is that…Andrew and Jonathan believe themself to be simple crime lords, [Jenny laughs] not harming anyone, at all, physically. Just doing crime. And Warren is like-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Fucking "kill, kill, kill," speaking of "kill, kill, kill." Warren doesn't give a fuck. He wants to murder the Slayer. He wants to-he just wants to fucking fuck shit up. He doesn't-he has no-there's not much morality happening in Warren's journey.
Jenny: Jonathan and Andrew are trying to lay down the law. [Kristin laughs] Priority number one, we have to make Buffy…un-invisible so that she doesn't turn into pudding.
Kristin: Yeah, and Warren, like, agrees but obviously does not agree. He just says yes-
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: To make these dudes go away. Andrew is so pleased with the power of Jonathan in this…[both laugh] moment.
Jenny: Yeah, that nod of affirmation.
Kristin: [laughing] Yeah. "You did it, man."
Jenny: Robert Redford in the woods.
Kristin: Way to stand up to this fucking guy. Spike's…house!
Jenny: Here's-here's the thing.
Kristin: Ugh!
Jenny: Here's the thing. If you walked in…to someone's [French accent] boudoir. [Kristin snorts] [laughs] And they were definitely shirtless, under a sheet from the waist down, and…uh…pumping. Would you…
Kristin: Did you say pumping or humping?
Jenny: Continue into the room and speak to them or would you…raise your hands-
Kristin: Yep.
Jenny: And silently turn around and leave?
Kristin: Yep. I would-
Jenny: And wait?
Kristin: I would silently leave and wait. Unless I was Xander and I had a little bit of interest in perhaps, uh-
Jenny: [laughing] Oh!
Kristin: The naked form of…
Jenny: Oh, really?
Kristin: One Spike. Just saying. So…[Jenny laughs] did you say pumping or humping?
Jenny: I said pumping. [laughs]
Kristin: Pumping, okay, yeah. [laughs] Pumping, I think, is correct. Spike is having sex with invisible Buffy. Marti Noxon, uh…famously on record as saying, "I desperately did not want this scene in the show. I did not want invisible sex, but…"
Jenny: [laughs] But here we are.
Kristin: Here we are. Xander's like, "After your…exercises." [laughs] Because Spike-Spike says he's exercising.
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah.
Kristin: Why doesn't Spike just say he's having sex with a ghost? Like, it seems entirely plausible-
Jenny: [laughing] Oh, yeah.
Kristin: In this universe. Great, great-
Jenny: [simultaneously] Yeah, that would rip.
Kristin: Great nibbling of the Spike lobe here.
Jenny: Ugh. My god.
Kristin: Don't you think it's good? I think it's good.
Jenny: I think it's, uh…foolish.
Kristin: Yeah, but Buffy doesn't give a fuck. Buffy's just fucking playin' around. Also-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Xander knows-like…
Jenny: That Buffy's invisible.
Kristin: How does he not…[laughs]
Jenny: It's just inconceivable to him.
Kristin: Yeah, I know. So. Buffy is nibbling Spike's ear while Xander is having a conversation with Spike. There's a lot going on. Xander leaves and is like, "You should really get a girlfriend, dude." [Jenny laughs and groans] Spike. And then we turn serious again. Spike making a very good point, "The only reason you're here is that you aren't here." I don't like these games.
Jenny: Then he throws her out.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And she's like, counterpoint. [laughs]
Kristin: Okay, well, Jenny's not gonna tell you what the counterpoint is. [Jenny laughs] But she told me by moving her head like Razzmatazz from last episode.
NOTES: [both laugh]
Jenny: It's true.
Kristin: Over Zoom. Counterpoint, yeah. So perhaps the counterpoint is, uh, completed and then Buffy is actually kicked out because she's mad.
Jenny: Completed.
Kristin: She's mad, she's kicking a can. She's mad that-
Jenny: I haven't seen somebody kick a can in a dog's age. [Kristin laughs] And I'm loving it.
Kristin: She's mad at Spike. She does an impersonation of Spike and says, "Birds of a bloody feather." [both laugh] Willow is at the E-Pump. I said it already, but I just wanna really make sure that you all understand that Willow is at the E-Pump.
Jenny: Has the Espresso Pump been rebranded to the E-Pump?
Kristin: No, I assume that the E-Pump is the internet cafe section of the Espresso Pump.
Jenny: Oh.
Kristin: You know?
Jenny: Great.
Kristin: Of course they're gonna call it the E-Pump, 'cause it's the-you know? Like…
Jenny: Thank you, yes. Of course.
Kristin: Yeah, the ethernet…pump. [laughs]
Jenny: Mmm, pump that ethernet.
Kristin: [laughs] The email…pump.
Jenny: No. [both laugh]
Kristin: So…speaking of-wow, we've said "pump" so much in this episode. And it's meant so many different things. So-[clears throat] Willow finds whatever she needs to find. She doesn't use magic, again. She really is, like, fucking-you can hear the modem in the background, just struggling to reach dial tone. [Jenny laughs] And she's like, ughh! [laughs] But she doesn't use magic. And then Buffy goes home. No one's home, she opens the fridge. And then Dawn arrives.
Jenny: Sneaking in! Looking like a thief in the night. And Buffy takes this opportunity-she's still high on life-to make a pizza box fly. And Dawn is so deeply disturbed by this. And there's some…shrieking. There's some storming out.
Kristin: Yeah. And like, good on Dawn. Like, Dawn is recognizing something important here, which is like, why don't you care? Right? Why don't you care about anything? Like, that's how it's feeling and, like, that's what Buffy started to connect the dots about in the beginning of this episode, is like, Dawn's mad at me because I didn't recognize what was wrong with you. Like, Dawn is upset because Dawn, like a puppy, is sensing a lot of trauma that is unresolved. And it is-
Jenny: A classic trauma-sensing puppy. [laughs]
Kristin: You know, like, when you-if you get, like, in a fight with your partner, but you have a dog, and the dog gets really upset? [Jenny laughs] Dogs know. Okay.
Jenny: When I fell down the stairs…[both laughing] on the day of the release of our musical, which is actually not the most recent time I've fallen down my own stairs.
NOTES: [both laugh]
Kristin: Oh, god!
Jenny: [laughs] Frank was very supportive.
Kristin: Yeah! They know!
Jenny: Very, very, very supportive.
Kristin: Dogs know. Don't mock dogs and their ability to know.
Jenny: [laughing] Okay.
Kristin: One other thing to-two other things to point out, in this scene. One is that Buffy says, "Xander and Anya are Mulder'ing it out." Thought you might like that, Jenny.
Jenny: Hell yeah.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Love that shit. Yes.
Kristin: And Buffy gets a message on the message machine. "01," it says.
Jenny: [laughs] Now, see…
Kristin: "Hi, Jenny. It's Marina." [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: "I've been thinking about you."
Jenny: No. No.
Kristin: Wrong message. Wrong message! The message is, "Hey, it's Xander, and this shit is slowly killing you."
Jenny: A terrible message to receive.
Kristin: Yeah. Is he talking about the invisibility ray or is he talking about Season 6 of Buffy the Vampire Slayer? Both slowly-
Jenny: Both.
Kristin: Killing us.
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: Willow finds the van! [laughs]
Jenny: This is very cool! But maybe don't go into a lair all by yourself with no backup.
Kristin: Well, reminder-
Jenny: You know?
Kristin: The lair is simply the basement of Warren's mother, so it probably doesn't seem all that intimidating. Willow is-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Nerding the fuck out. It's really cute. Willow's had, like-
Jenny: Oh, yeah!
Kristin: A couple of days of just, like, scraping tire rubber off of the road. [Jenny laughs] And fucking Googling shit, but not Googling 'cause there wasn't Google then. And she looks at the plans for this invisibility ray and she's all excited! And I would like permission to play Willow's jingle, because this is the moment.
Jenny: Let it be so.
NOTES: [WILLOW jingle plays] Who knows the square root of 1,225? Willow! Who is gentle of heart and nimble with a hard drive? Willow! Willow, Willow, Willow.
Kristin: [sighing] Oh!
Jenny: [simultaneously] Oh! [singing] Duct tape over the mouth!
Both: [singing] Duct tape over the mouth!
Jenny: A short-lived triumph because Willow has some duct tape over her mouth. She has been taken hostage!
Kristin: "Congratulations, you're our first hostage." Cool. Summers house, phone call.
Jenny: Ring-ring.
Kristin: It's Jonathan, being real good at being Jonathan.
Jenny: Yeah. "I'm nobody."
Kristin: [simultaneously] "I'm…nobody!" [laughs]
Jenny: "No one you know."
Kristin: [laughs] Buffy's like, your voice sounds-why didn't they have Andrew call, the one that she doesn't know? Wh-why?
Jenny: Great question.
Kristin: "Meet us at the arcade," he says. We don't hear it, but we gather because they meet him at the arcade, in the next scene.
Jenny: Willow is the only member of the party who is visible. She's standing with her back up against a pinball machine. Buffy walks up to her and she's like, are you okay? Willow's like, yes, I'm fine. [Kristin chuckles] Then Warren, I believe, says, you know, we've got you surrounded. And Willow is immediately like, "They're bluffing. There's about three of them, I think." [laughing] And two of them are playing a video game right now.
Kristin: Love, love invisible Jonathan and invisible Andrew playing a video game. Fantastic. And…Warren is like, hey, don't worry, we'll fix you. You just have to stand still. And Willow looks down at the invisi-ray gun and in the one and a half minutes that she had to examine-
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: The plans, realizes, uh, no, that's for continued molecular deterioration. [Jenny laughs] Warren called me to find out how to invent that. I told him that the human molecular structure was different than a pylon.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: And it needs two doses to-
Jenny: [laughing] Of course.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Thank god you were there.
Kristin: Thank god. And-so then, what? Buffy throws the air hockey puck at Warren's head.
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: He drops the gun. There's, like, an invisible scuffle. I'm sure that the-
Jenny: This is…truly great.
Kristin: It is. It's great and what a relief for the stunt doubles, you know? They got the day off.
Jenny: Yeah. It's just the camera swinging back and forth between a couple locations. At one point, the pinball machine does get smashed by someone landing on it.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Also, before they start fighting, there's a great, like, "Let's take this somewhere private, like over there." And everyone in unison is like, "where?" Because…[both laugh] everyone is invisible. [both laugh] It's great.
Kristin: It's good.
Jenny: It's great.
Kristin: It's really good, yeah. It's very funny. I-
Jenny: But this fight camera work with absolutely no subjects, hilarious.
Kristin: Amazing. I saved the Patriarchy jingle for this moment, when-and I told Jenny before we started taping that this may be my favorite moment in the episode. Because Willow picks up the gun, sets it to "re-visible." Thank god.
Jenny: Sure.
Kristin: The instructions are clear here. [Jenny makes switch-flipping noise] Yeah. Re-visibilize the invisible people. And she's trying to figure out how to re-visibilize the people. And Buffy-the boys just keep talking. They, like-they just-
Jenny: They just won't shut up.
Kristin: They will not shut up, and Buffy says, "Just keep talking, boys." Literally the reason-
Jenny: [laughs] And they do.
Kristin: That they are defeated is because they will not shut up, to which I say… [THE PATRIARCHY jingle plays] The patriarchy! [thunder clap, evil laughter]
Kristin: So. Everybody is re-visibled. And Jonathan has chest hair, to the surprise of Buffy Summers. We begin a gag-perhaps it will continue-of "Warren, Jonathan, who's that guy?" [Jenny laughs] And Andrew's like, I, uh, sent the flying monkeys during the school play. Remember me? Tucker's brother. Oh, Tucker's brother.
Jenny: Tucker's brother.
Kristin: Mmm. [Clip from episode plays]
Buffy: So you three have, what? Banded together to be pains in my ass?
Warren: We're your arch nemesises. Sees. You may have beaten us this time, Slayer, but next time. Um. Uh, next time…
Jonathan: Maybe not! [smoke bomb sound]
Jenny: Yes, they're her arch nemesis-sis-sees.
Kristin: Yes, incredible.
Jenny: They do a little smoke bomb, disappear-o thing. But of course, they didn't check to see if the door was unlocked before they did that. However, a security guard comes in and is like, what's going on here? [Kristin laughs] I have people-kids saying it is haunted in here. [Kristin laughing] There is a ghost in the arcade. [both laugh] Meanwhile, these fucking nerds get the door open and disappear. Sir! There is a time and a place.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: This is neither.
Kristin: Nope. Willow, finishing the hairstyle gag, says, "Buffy! Your hair."
Jenny: It is adorable.
Kristin: It is adorable. We all agree. So they go out to the curb and they sit down. Writers of the show said, that was fun. Let's remind everyone…[Jenny laughs] that we don't intend to make much fun this season.
Jenny: Yeah. Enjoy it while it lasts.
Kristin: Willow said, I did it the spell-free way. She sort of confide-not confiding, but like, um…talking to Buffy about, like, this experience of having really struggled through the day, but having come out victorious.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Not having used magic and…Buffy then sort of confides back in Willow and says, you know, I got scared when I heard that I would fade away. And at first, Willow's like, well, who wouldn't? And Buffy's like, I wouldn't. Like, I…my experience up until this point has been that, like, I would be completely fine with dying. And I didn't wanna die. And that is a big deal.
Jenny: Congrats.
Kristin: [laughs] And then they have this incredible moment of, we both made good first steps. Yay.
Jenny: Yay…
Kristin: Period. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: So, Jenny, we haven't talked about tension of the sexual variety. Would you like to do that? [SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays] Sexual tension award!
Jenny: Well! Here we are. Yet again. The old crossroads. Many will nom, but only one will truly slot. [Kristin snorts] In slot number one, they just can't get enough of it, that special sparkle. That twinkle on the horizon.
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: You just can't keep nerds away from an invisibility ray! In slot number dos. The noms, well, now you see one, but you don't see the other. It's Spike…and invisible Buffy. Getting up to…exercises.
Kristin: I promise to use the ear emoji on this-
Jenny: Nice.
Kristin: Slot and nom.
Jenny: Nice. In slot number three, they simply can't help themselves. They were meant to be together. It's men-or boys…in an arcade. Talking ceaselessly, unable to tear themselves away from yapping, even though it means their own demise.
Kristin: Boys and yappin'. Yappin' and boys.
Jenny: And in the fourth slot, Kristin's favored pick. A man under a sheet and another man [Kristin laughs] who is very curious and unafraid of what's going on under that sheet. [both laugh] It's Xander and Spike.
Kristin: Ohh, I love a Spander pairing. You know?
Jenny: [whispers] Spander. [normal voice] I do know.
Kristin: Hey. Follow us on Twitter, @BufferingCast [Jenny laughs] where you can vote in this highly, highly contested contest for sexual tension. The poll will be up for seven days. Sometimes I use emojis. You're welcome.
Jenny: You sure do. [SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays] Sexual tension award!
Jenny: Well, this is a fun episode.
Kristin: Yeah. I think it's fun.
Jenny: Some progress is made. Some heavier plot points are…just, uh, inched forward. But we also get to-
Kristin: Yeah, the trio…
Jenny: Have a good time.
Kristin: We finally know why the trio heisted a diamond-I mean, we knew why they heisted a diamond, but-
Jenny: Because Bikini Wax Wednesday.
Kristin: Yeah, really, the most important thing we learn in the episode…in the eleventh episode of Season 6 of Buffy the Vampire Slayer is that Sunnydale has Bikini Wax Wednesdays. What do you think that you get on a Bikini-I mean, I know you get a bikini wax. But like-
Jenny: [laughs] I was gonna say.
Kristin: Do you think it's like, half off a bikini wax? Or do you think it's-you know?
Jenny: Well, I think you wanna get the whole thing off. And then…
Kristin: [laughs] Wow.
Jenny: [laughs] And then you can negotiate after the fact.
Kristin: Cool. On that note, why don't you let everybody know who the fuck you are?
Jenny: Well! [both laugh] My name-
Kristin: Standup comedian, Jenny Owen Youngs.
Jenny: My name is Jenny Owen Youngs! [Kristin laughs] And when I'm not making this podcast, I'm making songs and other podcasts. You can hear more of my speaking voice over on Veronica Mars Investigations. And you can hear my singing voice on various Jenny Owen Youngs releases, including my new Echo Mountain EP and my band L.A. Exes' first single, Temporary Goodbye. I also would recommend following L.A. Exes this week, because something…[Kristin gasps] is afoot. [Kristin gasps louder] Something is happening-
Kristin: Jenny-
Jenny: And it is very exciting.
Kristin: Don't you think that the song Temporary Goodbye could align with this episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer?
Jenny: Absolutely! Oh my god. Temporary Goodbye is this episode.
Kristin: It's literally this episode, yeah. Too bad you can't repurpose the song and put it at the end of the episode.
Jenny: Alas. [both laugh] That would be handy.
Kristin: That would be, it would have been so nice.
Jenny: You can learn more about me at jennyowenyoungs.com. You can give me a shout on Twitter @JennyOwenYoungs.
Kristin: I am Kristin Russo. And when I am not trying to tamp down the excited energy of Jenny Owen Youngs-
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: And her relationship to slots and noms-
Jenny: Hell yeah!
Kristin: Or talking about Buffy the Vampire Slayer, I am generally found conversing about the LGBTQ community. And Britney Spears. Sometimes both at the same time. You can learn more about my work with queer communities on my website, kristinnoeline.com. That's K-R-I-S-T-I-N N-O-E-L-I-N-E. I am booking workplace speaking events and GSA speaking events and you can learn all about those things on that website. You can also follow me using my name, Kristin Noeline, [Jenny laughs] on Twitter and on Instagram. I'm doing-I have all these book clubs. You know that I have one for Buffering the Vampire Slayer. I also am reading Aristotle and Dante Discover the Secrets of the Universe, over in my little Patreon land. So find all of that on my website. Come hang out.
Jenny: Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram, @BufferingCast. And you can drop us an email at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin: It's true, you can. You can also support our work by becoming a patron. You get a lot of stuff. A lot. It's like-the stuff that you get [laughs] as a patron of ours is reaching the point of ludicrousness, if I do say so myself. [both laugh] You get music, there's book clubs, Jenny's doing a concert, like, now, basically. Maybe it already happened. No, I think it happens this Saturday. Cool! Fun music times. There's a lot. You can go to bufferingthevampireslayer.com, click on Patreon. You can also go to our store and buy some goods. If we don't have a new thing up yet, we will have it up soon. You should be excited. It is enamel, it is a trio and it is not Jonathan, [Jenny laughs] Warren and Andrew.
Jenny: Tucker's brother.
Kristin: It is something far better than them.
Jenny: Indeed.
Kristin: So, you know. Bufferingthevampireslayer.com. You know what to do. You know how the internet works. Go on over there.
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: Hang out.
Jenny: And…till next time…
Both: Awwwwwoooooooooooooo!
Jenny: [singsong] Ba-da!
Kristin: We didn't tell you but we were invisible this whole episode.
Jenny: Mmhmm. [Kristin laughs] ["Gone" plays off the album "Songs from Season Six" by Buffering the Vampire Slayer]