Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 2.22: Becoming (Part 2)
Jenny: Hey, everybody! Before we get into today's episode, we have to tell you some things!
Kristin: We do! We have a listener survey that is happening now. It is on our website, bufferingthevampireslayer.com, just click on "survey." The main purpose of that survey is to actually help us, as we go into Season 3, understand what you like and what you don't like about our podcast. Probably you like everything and you don't like nothing. [Jenny laughs] Uh, so… but we made, you know, we did make it a little more detailed than that. So if you could head on over there, we would so, so, so appreciate it. And we will be picking three of you to win the T-shirt of your choice. We have so very many these days [Jenny laughs] which Jenny's gonna tell you about in a second. But, um, three of you, if you want to leave your email- you don't have to, you can take the survey anonomously. But if you would like to be entered to win a T-shirt, then you can leave us your email and we will be picking those winners before our season recap episode on July 19th. So head on over there, bufferingthevampireslayer.com, click on "survey." It's not very long. It's- it'll just take you a few minutes and it'll help us a bunch.
Jenny: And then when you're done taking our survey, oh my gosh, you should check out our store. It is full of stuff! We have, as we've previously mentioned, a few new shirts that we're really excited about. Isabella Rotman made us a super sick "awwwoooo" wolf shirt. And our friend Cameron Glavin designed a new T-shirt that has an adorable little werewolf on it, playing the guitar. And it says "even a werewolf is better than misogyny," which is of course, a lyric from the "Phases" song.
Kristin: Yes, and a fact.
Jenny: And also, a fact. And we've got a new "Just Keep Fighting" shirt. We've got the old "Just Keep Fighting" shirt. We've got a "Smash the Demon Lizard Patriarchy" tee, we've got a "Smash the Demon Lizard Patriarchy" tank, we've got Cordette and Slayerette and Buffering pins. It's all there, waiting for you! All you have to do is visit bufferingthevampireslayer.com and click on "shop."
Kristin: Great job, Jenny.
Jenny: Thank you.
Kristin: We also wanna let you know that on July 30th, we will be doing a Buffy watch with all of our patrons. So no matter what level you give, we will be joining together and watching an episode as yet to be chosen. If you're a patron, there is a poll up on Patreon where you can choose between "Becoming Part 2," the one we're about to discuss, "Anne," "Faith, Hope and Trick," or "Band Candy." "Band Candy" was winning, last we checked, but who knows what has happened between the time of this recording and the time of its airing? It's a contest that will end very soon, so go on over there. If you can support us, we would so appreciate it. Patreon is a really, really fun place and way to support because you get all kinds of fun things. Buffy watches, of course. There's also a secret Facebook group that is really fun, and if you're at the $5 level, you get all of the songs as they come out. And actually, our $5 patrons got the "Becoming" song a week ahead of everybody else.
Jenny: And at this very moment, Kristin and I are scheming and plotting for our season recap wrap-up, which will air on July 19th. And I'll tell you what, we are in need of your voices. We would love to hear what you have to say about Season 2. If you want to share something about your favorite episode, about your favorite moment, about… really anything from Season 2, you can send us a voice memo. Try to keep it under 90 seconds, please.
Kristin: And try to keep it spoiler free.
Jenny: Mm-hmm, spoiler free. Great. Great point. Go ahead and record that voice memo and tell us everything that's really important to you that you can fit in in that amount of time. And then you can email the voice memo to us at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com. And you might be featured on our podcast. Wouldn't that be fun?
Kristin: I think it'd be fun. I love being featured on our podcast.
Jenny: Me too! Love being featured. [Kristin laughs]
NOTES: [THEME MUSIC]
Jenny: Hello and welcome to the season finale for Season 2 of Buffering the Vampire Slayer.
Kristin: Holy shit!
Jenny: A podcast where we are watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, one at a time. I'm Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: And I'm Kristin Russo and this week, we are talking about Season
2, Episode 22, "Becoming: Part 2." A couple of 2's in that title.
Jenny: There were a few 2's.
Kristin: A few 2's and some Sarah McLachlan. [Jenny laughs] It's time for
"Becoming: Part 2." We hope you have your fucking tissues! 'Cause it's gonna get real. [Jenny laughs] Stay tuned at the end of this podcast every week for an original song written by us, recapping the Buffy episode we are discussing.
Jenny: "Becoming: Part 2" was written and directed by Joss Whedon and originally aired on May 19th, 1998.
Kristin: This is the one where Spike strikes an unlikely alliance with Buffy to keep Angel from destroying the world.
Jenny: Is that what "this is the one" is?
Kristin: Is that- is it, Jenny?
Jenny: Or is it the one where Buffy has to kill Angel because he gets re-ensouled but not quick enough?!
Kristin: Ugh. It's that one.
Jenny: Mm-hmm.
Kristin: It's the one. It's the one, okay? It's the one!
Jenny: It's a lot. It is a lot.
Kristin: So much happens in this episode! I don't even know where to begin, but I suppose we should just begin at the beginning. Because-
Jenny: Good place.
Kristin: It's a good- [singsongy] it's a very good place to- isn't that how the song goes?
Jenny: That's what they sing, yes.
Kristin: Okay. So we come right in on "freeze." That's where we left off.
Jenny: Right, right, right.
Kristin: Buffy is over Kendra's body, the police have a gun drawn.
Jenny: [groans]
Kristin: This scene is really tense. It- the big moment in this pre-credits scene for me is Buffy's decision to hit the cop and run. Because it's like, such a pivotal moment for her. I don't think that she's ever really done anything like this before? And that's what we're seeing on her face, is like, this is something that's like, morally- or like, not even morally. But like, legally-
Jenny: Right, it's a legal issue. Morally, I feel like there's less of a question for her.
Kristin: Right, it's more just like, this is- the power dynamic is supposed to go that cops are- when cops tell you what to do, you have to do what they say. And I feel like she's just reasoning through it for the first time, of like, cop, slayer, slayer, cop, cop, slayer, slayer cop. And she comes up "slayer." [laughs] So that's the big stick-out moment for me. She, you know- she punches the cop and calls Snyder-
Jenny: Also flips the cop.
Kristin: Flips the cop. What does she call Snyder? An evil little troll?
Jenny: That sounds right.
Kristin: Something like that? Um, so that's my big thing for pre-credits. Did you have anything else that you wanted to talk about in this pre-credit moment?
Jenny: I love the lady cop calling in an APB- calling in a- announcement to the other police officers.
Kristin: [laughing] Yes.
Jenny: And her astute observation that the suspect is approximately 16 years old.
Kristin: [laughing] Yeah. She's watch all the other episodes and she's like, you know, her birth date keeps changing. [Jenny laughs] I think she's 16? She's wrong. Buffy's 17. We learned that during "Surprise," so.
Jenny: So we go to the credits. And then, here we are in the hospital. Beanie Buffy, Buffy in her beanie.
Kristin: Buffy's back, that's what I have. Buffy's back to the beanie and the heavier trench coat. She has abandoned the Victoria- what do you call it? Frederick's of Hollywood trench… [Jenny laughs] is out. She's really- she's in this time. She's like, I need the real disguise, not the silly disguise. So she's all in. This is- I mean, this episode- first of all, I said to Jenny when we were most of the way through, is this episode scored more than the other episodes? And I think the answer is yes.
Jenny: Yeah, it feels like a lot more music.
Kristin: Right, there's just a lot of sound cues. And you know, the pre-credit moment is just like, tense and crazy. But then the second we come out of the credits, we're just like, time to go down the waterslide of tears. You know?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Just starting right in this moment where Buffy and Xander are in the hospital hallway.
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: And Xander, you know…
Jenny: He's got a big cast on his arm.
Kristin: Right, and Buffy makes- like, tries to make a joke because the cops come in and they hug. And, you know, Xander hugs Buffy so that she can't be seen by the cops. And she tries to like, make light of the moment. And you know when you're in a moment that's just too heavy to make light of, but you try anyway?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Like, is there anything sadder than that?
Jenny: No.
Kristin: When someone tries to make light of the moment and the other person is like, "Yeah, no." And that's what we see here, you know, she says something to Xander like, "Oh, I'm sure that was part to protect me and part to cop a feel." And his face is just devastated. And that's when we cut to Willow.
Jenny: Nooooooo!
Kristin: Oh my God. I have four- I think four crying emojis that I've drawn in my notes and two-
Jenny: Analog crying emojis.
Kristin: Yeah. And two broken heart emojis drawn in my notes.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: I'll let you know if there's any other drawings, but Willow gets my first crying emoji.
Jenny: Ooh, this is tough.
Kristin: This is awful. I mean, we- obviously we've talked in the podcast about Willow being used as a device to just-
Jenny: [laughs] Ruin us!
Kristin: Drag us, and that is what happens in this moment. I mean, Willow is so helpless and so small and so just… hurt, in that hospital bed. And we learn that she's suffered-
Jenny: Head trauma.
Kristin: Head trauma that is, you know, she might be okay but she might not, and it depends on how long she stays out for. And it's terrifying. And then right on the heels of us being devastated by seeing Willow in horrible shape, Cordelia walks in. And Cordelia and Xander haven't seen each other since this has happened. And this gave me my second crying face that I drew, because the moment that they share together, Cordelia and Xander, having been apart and not knowing if they were okay. It's just… it's just very real. This whole thing is just very real. Like, I think what happened in the moment with Xander where he was like, no joking, was like, very symbolic for this episode in general. It's like, no, shit literally is too real and too sad for us to really do much laughing at all in this.
Jenny: And Cordelia has this moment of reckoning where she acknowledges to the group that she ran. And she says, "I'm not too brave."
Kristin: Oh, Cordelia!
Jenny: Which is so sad.
Kristin: And she is brave!
Jenny: And Buffy says right away, you know, that's exactly what you should have done. You should have gotten out of there. But Cordelia has now integrated herself into this group of people who, when there is danger, instead of running away, they run towards it.
Kristin: Towards the danger.
Jenny: And one of them is very powerful, but the rest of them are just, helpful. You know, they just wanna be there for Buffy and for the cause. And Cordelia's not quite there where her reflexes to run towards the fire, but maybe she will be.
Kristin: Ugh, just so many emotions in this first scene! And then don't worry, things get way lighter.
Jenny: [laughs] Because guess where Giles is? Face down in the haunted castle, with all the vampires.
Kristin: Yeah, the one thing I did have here that was a lighter note is, "eyeliner strong." [Jenny laughs] Our graph has re-peaked, our eyelinergraph for Angel has- took a nosedive in "Becoming: Part 1."
Jenny: Wow. [laughs]
Kristin: It has restored itself to full capacity-
Jenny: Great, great.
Kristin: In "Becoming: Part 2." But this is- so Giles is going to be tortured by Angel.
Jenny: Angel- Angelus… loooooovves torture.
Kristin: Yeah, loves torture-
Jenny: It's just his favorite thing. He likes long walks on the beach [Kristin laughs] at night, candlelit dinners at night, and torturing librarians.
Kristin: At night.
Jenny: At night!
Kristin: All at night. This is wretched, but my journey with Giles in this episode is, I think, really important. Or the journey that we all go on with Giles, where he is facing horrible pain, imminent death, and he just keeps on fucking with Angel. He does not fucking let up. In these first few moments- [Jenny laughs] you know what I mean? Like, in these first few moments, he's just sort of like, bring it on. And like, as the episode progresses, he just gets more and more defiant.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Which I love.
Jenny: Yeah, also, I feel like- as we're seeing more and more of Spike and more and more of Giles. I just feel like… they have- maybe they have more in common than they realize.
Kristin: Spike and Giles? Please elaborate.
Jenny: Yeah, they're both English. They're both very defiant. [Kristin laughs] And, uh…
Kristin: They're both against Angel in this episode. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah! Even more for them to ally themselves over.
Kristin: Right. Well, won't- we'll be very lucky if we get to see any more-
Jenny: Interested to see how that could ever develop, maybe.
Kristin: Of those two. So the cops go to Joyce's house, they're like, yo, your daughter probably did all of this horrible stuff, because she always does horrible stuff, is that or is that not right? Mother of Buffy? And she's like, what the fuck? 'Cause like seriously, what the fuck with these cops?
Jenny: And then Buffy leaves to go to Giles' house just in case he's there.
Kristin: Just in case he's there.
Jenny: He's not!
Kristin: No, but Whistler is.
Jenny: Whistler in the pork pie hat is just hanging out at Giles' apartment. Like some kinda person that you have to seek out in a, like, Zelda-style video game where you're just like, walking around and collecting money and foods and solving riddles.
Kristin: [laughs] And you're like, why is my power not at its full capacity? And it's like, oh, I have to go to visit Whistler. I have to go-
Jenny: Right, exactly.
Kristin: I have to go talk- and the little dialogue box comes up at the bottom of the screen and is like, "Hello Buffy. My name is Whistler. The demon you are fighting requires"- you know. [laughter] That's totally Whistler's character.
Jenny: But we do learn that Whistler is this immortal demon sent to restore the balance between good and evil. And he's all, "What are you prepared to give up?"
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: And then he's like, "The sword isn't enough, you have to know how to use it!" And Buffy's like, "fuck you."
Kristin: Yeah, she really is like, fuck you. She does not like Whistler in this first scene, though she comes to need Whistler later. But I think that that piece is kind of one of the pivotal pieces of this episode, and really, this season- is, you know, will Buffy be able to defeat Angel? Will she be able to be the slayer and do her duty to save the world, or will her love for Angel triumph and therefore, now in this current setup, will the world go under? And we're waiting, like- if you've never seen this episode before, that'sreally the big question on the table, is: is she going to be able to do it? And I wonder, you know, now I feel like I know this so well. I know what's gonna happen, I know how the end is gonna play. But I just- I wish I could remember my first viewing and like, what I thought was going to happen.
Jenny: Right right right. Well, I bet what you didn't think was gonna happen was that… Spike and Buffy were gonna team up!
Kristin: Oh, you're right, I didn't. And what a delight, what a delight!
Jenny: Yay! Yay! Yay!
Kristin: Things are all coming together. The scene opens with, "Hello, cutie." Well, let's-
Jenny: [laughing] First there's a cop.
Kristin: First- whatever! There's a cop and- who cares about any of that? Nobody, is the answer. Nobody cares about what happens in the moments before we get the line, from Spike to Buffy, "Hello, cutie." [Jenny laughs and squeals] And then they have got this beautiful, just perfect- it's a perfect scene. Is it not?
Jenny: Oh, it's so good. It's really good.
Kristin: It is like the- ugh. Just the perfect amount of ha- you know what's a recipe for, Jenny? Sexual. Tension. Award.
Jenny: I've… heard of it.
Kristin: Have you?
Jenny: Yeah. Do you think that's where this goes?
Kristin: I mean, I just feel like there is a- just a dollop of uh, sexual tension. [Jenny sings triumphant notes] Mixed in with some hatred.
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: Mixed in with some peroxide. [Jenny laughs] With a touch of slayer and I think what we have there is the sexual tension award. I did- I think I had another note of a possible…
Jenny: Was it Dru and Giles?
Kristin: It was not. It was not Dru and Giles, although hilarious and we will get there. It was actually Angel and Spike. [laughs] Angel and Spike- I just made a note of their sexual tension later, when Dru is going in to hypnotize, or whatever, mind-fuck Giles- that Angel is like, "I kinda like when you got my back, man."
Jenny: Yeah, yeah yeah yeah.
Kristin: And they have this like, very moment-y moment. [Jenny laughs] But certainly that does not exceed the sexual tension that I believe exists here between these two. Just because they have a certain… you know?
Jenny: There's something there!
Kristin: There's something there. The-
Jenny: There's something in the hate, really.
Kristin: And their like, punch for punch in this scene is so great. The like, hard-hitting punches they both throw at each other without blinking. Like, either one gets hit and they just don't miss a beat.
Jenny: We learn some important stuff. We learn that Angelus has Giles.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: And he's like, "He's got your watcher."
Kristin: Right, well, we- Buffy learns. Yes.
Jenny: Oh, sorry, sorry. Buffy learns that Angelus has Giles. We also learn that Spike likes the world.
Kristin: I know, right?!
Jenny: He's also a Manchester United fan. [Kristin laughs] Which is great.
Kristin: You know, I said in- earlier, like, there wasn't a lot of room for laughter, but I guess I kind of forgot all of the laughter that happens.
Jenny: Spike has, I think, all the laughs.
Kristin: Yeah, Spike does. Like, he has this line about vampires always talking big.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: But not really wanting what they say they want. [Jenny laughs] And then he has this great moment where he's like, "Oh okay, before we go"- you know, Buffy agrees, okay, let's go inside and talk. Or make out, whatever, I don't know.
Jenny: Mm-hmm. Either one.
Kristin: But let's go inside and talk. And Spike's like, "okay, let me just kill this" to the cop. And then Buffy like, clears her throat. [Jenny laughs] You know, there's just like- they're coming from polar opposite worlds and like, polar opposite motivation for the-
Jenny: She's old fashioned! He's a vampire!
Kristin: [laughs] Oh my God, if only there could be a spin-off. [Jenny laughs] You know? If only. Ah, okay. This great scene, I'm awarding it- I'm officially awarding it-
Jenny: Beautiful.
Kristin: To Spike and Buffy. I love this moment. And then we go back to the hospital.
Jenny: Mmmm.
Kristin: And this is an interesting scene, with Willow and Xander. Do you have thoughts- do you have feelings on this scene?
Jenny: I have thoughts and feelings. I think, um, the first time we watched this, I was like, arrgghh. And the second time we watched it, I almost cried. I think Nick Brendan does some great acting right here.
Kristin: Yeah, I agree.
Jenny: Pretty powerful, beautiful stuff.
Kristin: Yeah, throughout. Throughout, he does a really-
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, the whole episode. Great, great, great, great, great.
Kristin: And this- I mean, I think that the biggest confusion that I have about this scene between them is when he says "I love you," and she says "Oz," and then it goes to his face and it kind of stays on his face for an extra beat. That moment threw me and I- because I really feel like this was a genuine moment between two best friends. And that was the extent of that moment. And I-
Jenny: Right, but the camera work suggests otherwise. And is it supposed to?
Kristin: And I think I'm mad at the editor, is what I think it is. Because I think that Xander is heartbroken and wanting his best friend and realizing how deeply he loves his best friend. And I think that Xander is responsible and mature enough in this moment to not have that cross any wires for him. And that it seems- 'cause it- the moment that Oz comes in, it also seems to get wiped away. It's not like Xander's like, pouty or anything. You know? So I just feel like the way this was edited would lead us to believe there was more there, and I disagree with that. I don't- I, Kristin Russo, declare there was not more there. I think that Xander loves Willow and Xander is happy that Oz is there for Willow. That is how I write this story.
Jenny: Well, I mean, maybe both of those things can exist and also they can be more confusing than just that.
Kristin: That's true, and maybe what it was meant to do was show us that moment for Xander, of kind of being like, what is it to love someone this deeply if it isn't, you know- if it isn't something that's like, romantic or sexual, how can I have this big of feeling for this person? And maybe he's processing that, maybe that's what we were meant to see. But I just- I would like to dispel any rumors that Xander is at all, sort of like, wanting Willow and jealous-
Jenny: Trying to like, wake Willow up with true love's… pronouncement.
Kristin: Right. And maybe that's the play, Jenny. Maybe the play is, like, you know, all the fairy tales are like, true love will wake the sleeping, you know-
Jenny: Whomever.
Kristin: Whomever. And maybe the play on this is like, true love can not only be romantic love, not only be sexual love, not only be- but it can be the love of a friend that awakes- oh no! That's so beautiful!
Jenny: Oh… oh, wow.
Kristin: Oh God!
Jenny: Okay, wow.
Kristin: Can we pause so I can draw one more crying emoji?
Jenny: [laughs] Yes.
Kristin: Okay, a little circle, little dot eyes, little frowny and some tears. Okay, thank you, thank you so much.
Jenny: Okay, you're good? You're good to go?
Kristin: Yes. Except for before we leave this scene, I did want to talk about Oz's moment. [Jenny squeals] Because- Oz and Willow. So Willow wakes up. Thank God! Willow- we can never lose you, okay? I hope you understand that you may never go anywhere. [Jenny laughs] Okay, great. So Willow wakes up and then she just has this ador- come on, fucking Willow, man! "My head feels big. Is it big?" [Jenny laughs] And then Oz, "No, it's head-sized." It's just this great moment. Can we give Willow her jingle? I love her so much.
NOTES: [Jenny singing] Who knows the square root of twelve hundred and twenty-five? Willow! Who's gentle of heart and nimble with a hard drive? Willow! Willow, Willow, Willow
Jenny: Okay, that's enough warm fuzzy feelings. Let's check back in on Giles getting tortured! [Kristin laughs] Well, you know what's not torture? For once, the endless drops of sweat that Giles has expelled over the course of his life cleaning his glasses. For once! For once, Angelus, a true gentleman in this one moment, takes that burden off of Giles' shoulders for just a second. And cleans his glasses.
Kristin: It's such a twisted thing. It reminds me- I mean, obviously this is not to the extent of horrific that the torture in Game of Thrones is, right? The- we were just rewatching this.
Jenny: Oh, yeah yeah yeah.
Kristin: You know, Theon torture- what's the bad guy's name?
Jenny: Ramsay.
Kristin: Ramsay, oh my God, that- it's just horrible. The whole thing's horrible. But it's this similar vibe of like, when the person that is doing the torture also does a nice thing.
Jenny: Blegh.
Kristin: And it's all part of the tor- you know what I mean?
Jenny: Yeah. Well, I think in this instance, Angelus wants Giles to be able to see everything very clearly.
Kristin: Yes, precisely.
Jenny: We presume he's cleaning blood spray off the glasses.
Kristin: And do you know- do you wanna know something about Angel- I think Angelus is using a cloth, right? He's not using his shirt. Do you wanna know why he needs a cloth and not his shirt?
Jenny: Mm, I have an idea.
Kristin: Because his shirt is made of silk. And his pants, no, no, can't use those either. They're made of leather. Not one article of clothing on Angelus' back is made of anything that could clean glasses.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah yeah.
Kristin: So I'm just saying- now, you might think this is a great time for us to bring in Kate Leth. But we're gonna bring in Kate later. Because Kate- Kate said, "You know what guys? Fuck you to your fashion watch. I have too many goddamn feelings." So we're gonna hear from Kate and we're gonna- just gonna let this moment of silk pants and- silk pants! Might as well-
Jenny: That'd be a whole other thing.
Kristin: Leather shirt, silk pants, totally different outfit. We're gonna let this moment of silk shirt, leather pants just go slightly touched upon by us. Giles still will not break. This is the first moment, actually, where Giles says, "Bring it on." And then we go to my favorite scene. I think this is my favorite scene in the entire season. [Jenny laughs] I'm gonna- I love it so- Jenny, I love it so much!
Jenny: Tell me all about it.
Kristin: Oh my God. Okay, so Joyce pulls up. [Jenny laughs] And Buffy and Spike are walking up to the house. And Joyce is like, "Buffy, I've been looking for you everywhere." And Spike is just standing behind Buffy, and Buffy's like, "Whatever, Mom. Everything's cool." And she's like, "Who is this man?" And then Spike is like, "You haven't told her?" And then Buffy's like, "I haven't. We're in a band." [Jenny laughs] And then they have this argument about triangles and drums, and then they go inside the house. And then-
Jenny: Wait, wait, wait. Before they go inside the house… Buffy slays a vampire in front of her mom.
Kristin: Okay, okay, you're right. We have a lot to talk about on a lot of levels, but like, my favorite scene- my favorite piece of the scene is just Spike and Joyce, Spike and Joyce, Spike and Joyce.
Jenny: Yeah, it's great.
Kristin: So we'll get back to Spike and Joyce in my favorite scene, so that we can follow the trajectory of the action. But oh my God, Spike! I love you. And I'm gonna love you so much in just a few moments when we get there that you're going to get what, Jenny?
Jenny: [singsongy] A jingle.
Kristin: A fucking jingle! So get ready for it, Spike! You deserved it. You finally earned it.
NOTES: [AD BREAK]
Jenny: Today's show is supported by Book of the Month. Paging all book lovers! Book of the Month is a rapidly growing service with a simple goal to make sure that you love what you read.
Kristin: Normally, we'd go off-script but Jenny was so excited to say "paging all book lovers" that we let her keep that copy, so you're welcome, Jenny.
Jenny: Thank you, I love it!
Kristin: And the reason that Book of the Month is so awesome is that people are reading these books and picking them out and recommending them to you, which is super rad. I'm a huge fan of going to the bookstore and picking out a book, but sometimes there's not time for that? And it's nice to have the knowledge that you'll have a book at your doorstep each and every month. They pick out five books and you select one from that list of five, and what's really cool too is that the people who read the book write a little essay on it. So you get some background on the book, you get to hear how they feel about it.
Jenny: Also, Book of the Month lets you add on books for pretty low prices. New hardcovers are often as low as 10 bucks.
Kristin: I was so excited because Roxane Gay's Hunger was one of the add-ons, so not only do I have my Book of the Month choice coming, but I also have Roxane Gay's book, who I love! Who doesn't love Roxane Gay?
Jenny: So to get started with your first book for just 10 bucks, go to bookofthemonth.com/buffering. That's bookofthemonth.com/buffering.
Kristin: Today's episode is also brought to you by Care Of. Listen, I am a person who takes vitamins, right? I like a multivitamin, I like vitamins that keep me feeling healthy, especially when I'm traveling. I can't eat exactly what I want to eat, and even when I'm not traveling. Because having a well-rounded, balanced diet where you get all of the nutrients you need is tricky. Care Of is a new vitamins company that is here to help. On their site, they ask you questions about your diet and your health goals and then they recommend the best supplements for you. I know that this is an ad, but I'm so obsessed with Care Of and I am- I was an immediate subscriber as soon as I checked it out. The website is one of those websites where it's super satisfy- like, you feel healthier by the end of the survey, even, before the vitamins even arrive. It asked me a ton of questions about my life, what I eat, where I live. They tell you things like, "sustainably sourced" and "food-based" and all of the keywords that a Kristin Russo likes to hear. They give you a recommended pack at the end of your survey and then you choose what you want, if you want the whole pack or if you want to take a few out. And then you pay monthly to have these vitamins delivered. And as a person who purchases vitamins, I can say wholeheartedly, the prices are really low, because vitamins can be super expensive. On top of all of this, because you love vampires- whoever knew that your love of vampires would get you a discount on vitamins? I didn't. But it will. Because if you go to takecareof.com, you can get your personalized recommendation and then use the code "buffering" and get 50% off of your first order. Which is kind of bananas, 50% is a lot of money. That's takecareof.com, offer code "buffering" for 50% off of your first order. You should really check it out, it's super awesome.
NOTES: [END AD BREAK]
Kristin: Okay, right. So let's get to this next part.
Jenny: Yeah! So a vampire jumps out of nowhere and attacks Buffy. And she slays him with an assist by Spike. In front of Joyce.
Kristin: Right. In front of Joyce. And so this is like- because obviously, come on, everyone. We all know what we're gonna talk about with this narrative arc. This is why-
Jenny: Right. What is this analogous to, hmm?
Kristin: Right. This is what we've been alluding to for the whole season. We've been flirting with is, just, you know, touching it a little bit. Fluffing it this way, fluffing it that way.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: Waiting for this moment so we could be like, obviously, this is placed here specifically to run parallel to coming out to your parent. And it is hit over the head so many times with so many different things. But this first moment, I just want to stick on for a second. Because I wondered- because Buffy is essentially outed, right? Like, Buffy definitely did not make the choice to come out to Joyce in that moment.
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: It's almost like, Joyce walked in on her… you know what I mean? Like, if we're kind of like, laying it parallel, this would be like if I had been like, making out with my girlfriend or like, listening to Ani DiFranco, or whatever the case may be. [Jenny laughs] And my mom sort of like, walked in and saw something that was undeniable. So I take back Ani DiFranco, but, you know, saw something that she couldn't un-see, that was so in her face that she had to face the fact that something had happened. And that's what happens here, and so Buffy is really left no choice. She has to tell her mother who she is, and she does. And she does it in a perfect- I just think it's perfect, the way she says it.
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: Right? This is exactly the way that I basically said I'm bisexual, was like- you know, she's like, "I'm a vampire slayer, heh-heh." [laughter]
Jenny: So then Buffy and Willow have a quick catch-up, so that Buffy can know that Willow's okay. Willow is like, "Yo, I'm so sorry that we didn't get to finish the spell." And Buffy says, "It's all right, I know now I'm never gonna get him back the way that he was."
Kristin: Right, sure, blah blah blah.
Jenny: Oh my God!
Kristin: I'm sorry, but the important part about them being on the phone is that-
Jenny: Is that while they're on the phone [Kristin laughs], guess who's in the living room?
Kristin: Spike, and Joyce! Joyce, and Spike! And this is- I looked at Jenny and I was like, oh, this is Spike, right? This is it. This is the moment when I think we see Spike for who Spike truly is. [Jenny laughs] Sitting in the fucking living room with Joyce, and this direction- this- I don't know how TV works, everyone. But whoever, I believe it was the director, who made the call to have the first cut of them in the living room have nothing said. It's just- it's like the perfect amount of silence. And they're just sitting there.
Jenny: Spike's kind of like, looking up into the corner.
Kristin: [laughing] Right.
Jenny: It's amazing.
Kristin: It's so awkward!
Jenny: I mean, it also has the- a very real feel of like, the… like, a boyfriend and a parent-
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Awkwardness.
Kristin: Yes. For sure. They're just like- you know, we thought Buffy and Spike were like, polar opposites. But we have now found that the true polar opposite and it is in Joyce. [Jenny laughs] And then the next-
Jenny: And ugh, she's working so hard to make conversation!
Kristin: Right? That's the next time we come back. Oh God, it's so good. When she's like, "Have we met?"
Jenny: And he's like, "Well, you hit me with an ax one time."
Kristin: [laughing] Right, and then-
Jenny: And then he's like- and then she's like, "Oh, do you live around here? Do you live here in town?"
Kristin: [laughing] Do you live around here? Yes, do you live here in town.
Jenny: Go-to mom convo.
Kristin: [sighs] All right, so, Jenny.
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: I have declared it the episode where Spike finally gets his jingle.
Jenny: Mm-hmm!
Kristin: Spike, in case you didn't know, everyone, Spike is my favorite character.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: Spike is- you knew. Why are you acting surprised?
Jenny: I don't know, I'm just trying to be the audience surrogate.
Kristin: [laughs] Well, Spike is my very favorite character. And so I knew that I had to wait until I felt that pang in my heart, to give him his jingle.
Jenny: And your heart's a-panging away?
Kristin: My heart is a-panging. Please, let us give Spike his inaugural jingle.
Jenny: By all means.
NOTES: [Jenny singing; rock music] Spike! I love you Spike! So dreamy Spike! Your trench coat Spike! I love you Spike! Your black nails Spike! Peroxide!
Kristin: Ugh, Spike. Right under the wire, you just-
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: You just squeaked that jingle right in past us before you skidded right out of town. [Jenny laughs] Whew! So then Buffy comes into the room, thank God. Because these two weren't gonna last another minute. And they start having this conversation. It's sort of like a three-way conversation, where like, Joyce is talking to Buffy and Spike is talking to Buffy. And Buffy's trying to like, give reasons to both of them simultaneously. The scene is written so well, because of the back and forth of like, Joyce- Joyce's quips in the background- [Jenny laughs] "Did she explode like that man?" [laughter] -are great, but really, I feel like the biggest thing that starts to happen here is we're doing, like, the crash course in "mom just had daughter come out to her." Right?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: "Are you sure? Have you tried not being… a slayer?"
Jenny: "Is it because you didn't have a strong father figure?"
Kristin: Right. And so, I mean, I don't- Jenny, we really haven't talked about our own coming out processes or moments. And I feel like it has a little bit of a place here. Like, when I came out to my mom, she was… worse than Joyce Summers, by a landslide. She was Joyce Summers had Joyce Summers been a Catholic, right? [Jenny laughs] Like, Joyce is having to intake like, not only is my daughter the slayer, but also vampires and probably she's going to hell. That was my mom's path. But I- you know, my mom went through all of these phases, like have you- but if you haven't dated a boy, if you haven't been in love with a boy- you know. If you haven't, if you haven't, if you haven't, why is this happening? Is it my fault? These are like, A number one classic questions that come from parents when their kids come out to them. Because parents go through a process, and that's what's so cool about this, is that we're seeing Joyce go through the process, just like Buffy, in the beginning of Buffy, understanding being a slayer, had to go through a process.
Jenny: Oh, wow.
Kristin: I don't know if you know this, Jenny, but I wrote a book-
Jenny: About how coming out is a process? Yes!
Kristin: Yeah, it's called This is a Book for Parents of Slayers.
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: [laughs] No, it's called This is a Book for Parents of Gay Kids. But like, I think that I'm gonna just CTRL + F "gay kids" and replace it with "slayer"-
Jenny: Yeah. It's just a whole new book.
Kristin: And I think that I'll give the book to Joyce.
Jenny: Perfect!
Kristin: You know? She could use it.
Jenny: [laughs] My parents didn't do any of- like, didn't ask me any of that stuff. I think my stepdad asked me, like, what was up? When I was-
Kristin: Just in general.
Jenny: Uh, well, his exact words were, "You're barometer seems a little… wooo." [Kristin laughs] And he made a metering gesture, using his left forearm as a horizontal, and then his right arm sort of hinging from the middle, and wagging back and forth.
Kristin: I see.
Jenny: And then I feel like I did all of the, um… I asked myself those questions. I think I sort of just served the traditional parental role, I was like, am I sure? What am I doing? Well, I should just try to not be! Wahh!
Kristin: Right! Well, that's what's so funny. I mean, not- funny is the wrong word. But that's exactly it, right? The exact questions that most parents have, we've had ourselves. And I'm sure that that applies here, right? I'm sure that Buffy has had plenty of time in her life trying not to be a slayer and did that, and it didn't- obviously, did not work. You can't make yourself someone that you are not. And so, Spike leaves. They've made this plan, right. And then we get the next level coming out moment between- and what's- I find this with sitcoms, good- not sitcoms, but television shows. I find with good television shows that handle coming out moments, they get through a lot of the stages that normally, it would take, you know, two weeks to ten years to get through all of the stages that Joyce goes through in this scene. But we go through them very quickly. And we just- you know, we've talked about One Day at a Time on this show. And that's a show that I feel did the same thing, they really executed a lot of the process points. And obviously they had to fit them into- they're not gonna have us wait all ten years to go through all that stuff. [laughs] But Buffy walks into the kitchen with Joyce now, and they have this really intense exchange.
Jenny: Whooo!
Kristin: Because Joyce is- you know, she's gone from, "Are you sure? Maybe you should try something different, honey." You know, "Maybe this is because of your father."
Jenny: Right, right, right.
Kristin: And now she's gotten to "This can't be."
Jenny: So this is just after Joyce has suggested, "Oh, let's call the police and just explain to them that you didn't kill that nice girl and everything will be fine." And Buffy is, of course, like, "We cannot call the police. That's not how this works."
Kristin: "That's not how this works and you need to- you need to understand who I am."
Jenny: Mm-hmm.
NOTES: [Clip from the episode]
Buffy: I told you. I'm a vampire slayer.
Joyce: Well, I just don't accept that!
Buffy: Open your eyes, Mom. What do you think has been going on for the past two years? The fights, the weird occurrences. How many times have you washed blood out of my clothing and you still haven't figured it out?
Joyce: Well, it stops now!
Buffy: No, it doesn't stop! It never stops. Do you think I chose to be like this? Do you have any idea how lonely it is, how dangerous? I would love to be upstairs, watching TV or gossiping about boys or God, even studying! But I have to save the world. Again.
Joyce: No, this is insane. Buffy, you need help.
Buffy: I'm not crazy!
Kristin: Whew! So this scene ends with Buffy walking out of the door and Joyce saying, "If you leave, do not come back."
Jenny: [groans] Classic parent!
Kristin: So this gets- classic parent. This gets really intense really quickly. But we hear even more of these very commonly said things, and I wanna just talk about one of them before we move past the coming out scene. I wanna talk about the moment where Buffy says, "I didn't choose this." Because it's a big- that's been a big player for me in talking to parents about kids who are coming out. And it's- it was like, the biggest way that you got your parents to accept you when you were coming out. Like, back in the day. But I think also, it still is very present, where you say, like, well, you couldn't choose to be anything else. So then the parent is like, oh, well, they didn't choose it so I have to accept them. And when I wrote This is a Book for Parents of Gay Kids, the publisher expected me to answer that question, is this a choice? With the answer, no. Just no it's not a choice, of course it's not a choice. Because then parents will say, oh, no, it's not a choice. And I really pushed back because I've always felt that that line of reasoning, when we're talking about sexuality, when we're talking about gender identity, of "it's not a choice so therefore accept me," would therefore mean that if I could choose, I would choose something different. Which is not how I like to explain things, and not like, how I like to look at things. And I know that this isn't- we're not talking about sexuality. We're talking about being a vampire slayer. But there's a big part of me that feels the same about this for Buffy. That really feels like, perhaps she's not there yet, but I really feel like she will be there, if she's not there yet, to a place where even if she could choose, she would not choose to be anything but the person that she is.
Jenny: Yeah. You're smart. I married smart.
Kristin: Well, this is my wheelhouse. [laughter]
Jenny: This is really your episode.
Kristin: If we're talking about X-Files, you can go on.
Jenny: Yeah yeah yeah yeah.
Kristin: If we're talking about coming out to parents, you're sitting with the expert.
Jenny: Well, I have a couple Jenny-esque nits to pick.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: If you don't mind.
Kristin: [laughs] Please, please pick those nits.
Jenny: First of all, stepping back to the three-way conversation between Spike, Buffy, and Joyce.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: When Spike and Buffy step aside to be like, here's the deal, if Giles dies, she dies.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Once again! Willfully ignorant Joyce ignoring the fact that Giles, the school librarian-
Kristin: Oh yeah! Is involved.
Jenny: Is entrenched in whatever this situation is, and… sort of-
Kristin: I didn't even pick that up! That's a great observation.
Jenny: And zooming out even further, at no point is Joyce like, "What's a vampire slayer?" [Kristin laughs] I know we don't have time, the episode is jam-packed and I understand that the title is self-explanatory. But we're also talking about a woman who, to the best of our knowledge, has no vampire experience or reason to think that they're real.
Kristin: Fine, but in Buffy's conversation with Joyce, she's saying, you've not seen all these obvious things that have been every- you've cleaned blood out of my clothes! So I think that there has to be a little room here for the fact that Joyce did know. Joyce had a feeling. And so it's not- I don't think Joyce is coming to this totally out of the loop. But it is- I still give you the point. But I do think there's plausibility there.
Jenny: This also then raises for me- this is the first time I think we've ever seen Joyce with a drink, except maybe she had a glass of wine with Ted or something.
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: And it's to the point where she's- where Buffy is very comfortable and it's like, reflexive for her to say, "Have another drink, Mom."
Kristin: Yeah!
Jenny: And so like, what is that? Has Joyce- has Joyce's alcohol intake been increasing as the amount of blood she's been washing out of clothes has also increased?
Kristin: Right, precisely. That like, Joyce- again, you know, I mean, maybe we're saying this too many times. But Joyce is going through something, just like Buffy is going through something. And how is that manifesting in Joyce and for Joyce, and how will this play out for the two of them? Only Season 3 will tell us.
Jenny: Oh my God!
Kristin: But just- this is just great. This is- I mean, you had to know. Everybody listening had to know we were gonna talk about the coming out moment for like, a half an hour, so there you go.
Jenny: Also, shout out to fucking Sarah Michelle Gellar, just crushing it! Just doing a great job.
Kristin: Yeah, great job.
Jenny: And Kristin Sutherland, doing an amazing job too, being-
Kristin: Absolutely.
Jenny: I mean, such a mom- like…
Kristin: Such a mom!
Jenny: Peak mom.
Kristin: [laughs] So we go back to the hospital room, where Xander- where Willow is saying, "I'm gonna do this fucking spell. You know my resolve face, I'm gonna do it."
Jenny: Oh, man.
Kristin: And Xander is like, "Yeah, but you don't look very good. Tell her, Cordelia." [laughter] Cue Cordelia.
Jenny: "Yeah, you should listen to him. The hair, it's so flat and the lips." And she trails off.
Kristin: [laughs] Ohh, Cordy. Cordy, Cordy, Cordy.
Jenny: But Willow's got her resolve face on, so it's definitely gonna happen.
Kristin: Then we go back to Giles getting tortured, and this is where he has his "in a tutu" line.
Jenny: Heh-heh-heh!
Kristin: Where he makes Angel think that he's gonna tell him the secret of unlocking Acathla, and he just fucking rubs salt in the wound! [Jenny laughs] Right at the right moment, and you're like, yeah, Giles!
Jenny: Yep, yep.
Kristin: And then Dru-
Jenny: Yeah, Angel is like, so fed up that he's like, I'm just gonna kill this motherfucker.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: And Spike- because now there's a deal in place- is like, up-up-up-up-up-uh, haven't you considered what other tools we have at our disposal?
Kristin: And Spike plays a good game. Spike plays a really good game because the truth of the matter is that Spike is risking Acathla being open. I mean, he knows that Dru is going to do this thing. It's not even like he's dangling a fake bait. It's like, this is real. Dru will then go on to hypnotize- well, we're gonna get there in a second. I wanna just hit Snyder before we get to-
Jenny: Yeah, don't we all wanna hit Snyder?
Kristin: [laughs] Right. So we- before we see Dru do her thing with Giles, we cut to the library where, you know, Buffy is just casually picking up her bag of weapons. [Jenny laughs] And Snyder walks in and Snyder… Snyder drops a couple of facts on us here. Namely, "You know the police of Sunnydale are deeply stupid." [Jenny laughs] So this is interesting, 'cause we haven't- we don't know exactly- we know that the chief of police is in on whatever the hell is going on here. But we're led to believe here that they've hired a police force based on the people's, like, stupidity. That these people are never gonna understand what's going on, they're never gonna whatever.
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: Right? Or at least that's-
Jenny: Never gonna ask questions.
Kristin: Never gonna- right. So that's just an interesting little tidbit. And then he gets what he's been waiting for, what he says he's been waiting for, what we know he's been waiting for.
Jenny: Oh, yeah. Blegh.
Kristin: To expel Buffy.
Jenny: And it is done.
Kristin: And it is done.
Jenny: And then he calls the mayor's office.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And is like, yo, have I got some hot, hot news for you.
Kristin: Yeah, have I got some hot goss for the mayor. Patch the mayor through.
Jenny: [laughs] That approximately 16-year-old blonde in the Contempo Casuals outfit [Kristin laughs] hoisting a sword across campus will not be bothering us any longer.
Kristin: God, Contempo Casual, good call.
Jenny: Oh yeah, oh please.
Kristin: That's totally a Contempo Casual outfit. Okay! So Dru and Giles.
Jenny: Yikes.
Kristin: Yeah. This is- so Dru says to Giles, "See with your heart." There is-
Jenny: Nooooo!
Kristin: I know. My heart- this is, by the way- sad face number three happens here in my notes. [Jenny laughs] In case anyone's paying attention, that's where sad face number three is. "See with your heart," and there's this beautiful reveal, where the camera sort of like goes behind Giles' head. And then when it comes forward again, it's Jenny Calendar.
Jenny: Oh… man.
Kristin: It's so sad. And also, Jenny Calendar really like, looks dead? They made-
Jenny: Yeah! That's a choice.
Kristin: Yeah, it's a really interesting choice. And I told you this, Jenny, when we watched it the first time. But it reminded me of a scene in American Gods, the book. I have not seen the show yet, although it's high on our list of shows to watch.
Jenny: Mm-hmm.
Kristin: But I loved the book and there's a scene with Shadow and his wife, where his wife is a corpse, essentially. And it just called that to mind for me. Anyhow.
Jenny: Now that you bring up that she looks dead, it's making me think about how she is saying "Just trust me and we can be together." Like, is she saying that as dead Jenny? Is she saying, like-
Kristin: Well, do you think Jenny is-
Jenny: "Just give them the information they need-"
Kristin: But Jenny's not even involved. Right, it's like- I don't think Jenny-
Jenny: Right, it's an illusion. But if he's seeing with his heart, why is seeing her dead? You know what I mean?
Kristin: Right. Oh, maybe- oh, I see what you're saying. That like, Dru has manifested as-
Jenny: As from-beyond-the-grave Jenny Calendar, beckoning Giles, "Give in and join me."
Kristin: Yes. Of course, that makes sense. Totally, totally.
Jenny: Hmmm.
Kristin: Hm! Hm!
Jenny: Hm! Great, great.
Kristin: [laughs] So let's get to the best part of this scene, which is when- [laughter] Angel and Spike are having their little sexual tension moment in the doorway. And they're having their little conversation. And then, obviously, they know, they've gotten the answer that they need.
Jenny: Yeah yeah yeah, so Dru no longer needs to be making out with Giles, but!
Kristin: No, and she just keeps making out with Giles. And Spike and Angel are like, ahem. AHEM. [Jenny laughs] And Dru turns around, [imitating Dru] "Sorry. I was in the moment." [laughter] I love you, Dru. And you know what, Jenny, I mean, Dru earned it, regardless. But we know that Dru drives off into the sunset as well. I think we should- I think we should give Dru-
Jenny: A farewell jingle.
Kristin: A nice jingle.
NOTES: [Jenny singing] Drusilla, you fill up My heart with dread And still I'm led Right back to you
Kristin: Oh, Dru. Dru, Dru, Dru!
Jenny: [laughs] Have fun wherever you and Spike are going.
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah, have a great time. We'll miss you. So then we go back to Whistler.
Jenny: Buffy needs a power-up.
Kristin: Yeah. [laughs]
Jenny: She needs more information.
Kristin: Whistler! "You've got one more thing to lose, Buffy." [Jenny laughs] And Buffy's like- animatronic. Not animatronic- graphic Buffy.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: Video-game Buffy is like, scratching her little head. [Jenny laughs] So we learn here that only Angel's blood will open the door to this hell dimension. Which is interesting to me. Why Angel?
Jenny: Yeah, I actually- one of the quotes that I wrote down about this scene was, "How did Angel get to be the key?" Attributed to Kristin Russo.
Kristin: [laughs] Because- just because like, the story is that there was this Acathla. And Acathla was like, "I'm gonna swallow the world!" And then this knight- this unnamed knight was like, "I have a sword!" And he killed Acathla with his sword!
Jenny: This is a great retelling.
Kristin: Thank you, and then… and then Acathla died and was like, "There will just be this vampire… that gets a sword-"
Jenny: Well, I think there's something about somebody being worthy.
Kristin: Right, like, the sword and the stone. Literally.
Jenny: Yeah, someone has to be worthy, so someone has to be like, evil enough. I think that's the idea.
Kristin: So it's not just Angel. So like, probably-
Jenny: But maybe Angel's-
Kristin: The Master could have opened-
Jenny: Yeah, but Angel's the only guy in Sunnydale right now.
Kristin: Right now. Okay, I would buy that.
Jenny: That's the feeling I got.
Kristin: But they talk about it-
Jenny: Oh my God.
Kristin: I think they're- I think that Angel likes to puff himself up a little bit, you know. Like really, it's just a lot of evil things could probably get the sword out. But Angel's like, "Uh, it's me, guys."
Jenny: "I'm very evil."
Kristin: "Does anybody need me to unbutton my shirt before I take the sword out of the stone?" [laughter] Anyhow, so we learn this piece of information. And then Whistler- I joked about Whistler's line but I did think it was really interesting. Like, you do have one more thing to lose.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: 'Cause I think that what he's talking about is that she's going to lose Angel again.
Jenny: Ugh.
Kristin: Right? And that's- I mean, it's just like, Whistler must know- I couldn't think of what else that would have symbolized, except for that. You know, Angel was gonna come back and then we were gonna lose Angelagain. We'll get there, don't worry, it's very sad. First, though: Xander and Buffy meet up to- on their mission to save-
Jenny: Xander emerges from the brush.
Kristin: Yes, and Buffy like, trots down the road with her sword wrapped-
Jenny: Wrapped in a blanket. [laughs]
Kristin: [laughs] In a blanket. Super casual, Buff.
Jenny: Just, you know, out for my- just walking my sword.
Kristin: Just walking my-
Jenny: But it gets a chill, so.
Kristin: But like, her disguise is like, hmm, just out walking my blanket.
Jenny: My oblong blanket.
Kristin: Yeah. [laughs] But the important piece of this scene is that Xander…
Jenny: [groans angrily]
Kristin: Decides not to tell Buffy what Willow has instructed Xander to tell Buffy. Now, I'm glad that Xander does this because I'm glad we have seven seasons of the series.
Jenny: [laughs] Right.
Kristin: But I'm, um, in the world of the series, pretty pissed off with this decision. Again, I talked about this last week. I understand Xander's motivation. But the fact of the matter is that Scoobies are supposed to be able to depend on fucking Scoobies.
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: And if one Scooby tells another Scooby to do a fucking thing, they do that thing. So I find this to be a very un-Scooby moment. I don't approve.
Jenny: Mm-hmm. I'm with you, a hundred percent. I don't know if I can say any more or any better.
Kristin: Okay. Well, don't worry, because now we get to listen to Angel speak in Latin.
Jenny: While simultaneously across town, Willow will eventually be speaking Latin as well.
Kristin: Right! It's fucking Latin o'clock up in here. [laughter] So this is the scene, right? And it's a back and forth scene, but it is- I consider it to be one scene, that takes us from Angel beginning the spell, until the end moment.
Jenny: Mm-hmm.
Kristin: We've got a ride to go on, folks.
Jenny: Oh yeah.
Kristin: Let us.
Jenny: So Angel's like, cutting himself up and chanting and brutally walking towards Acathla, when Buffy pops in and beheads the vampire- of all the vampires, this vampire must have the absolute worst peripheral vision.
Kristin: Right, beheading too! Like, have we seen a vamp get beheaded since the cymbal?
Jenny: Uh, the cymbal?
Kristin: Wasn't there a cymbal in Season 1?
Jenny: Ohh, the C-Y-M-B-A-L.
Kristin: Oh, yes.
Jenny: I was hearing as S-Y-M-B-O-L.
Kristin: Yes, the drum cymbal. The only reason I remember that is 'cause it's in one of our songs.
Jenny: Yeah, I feel like there has been another beheading since then.
Kristin: Since the cymbal? Well, anyway.
Jenny: But I mean, she is very clearly just right next to him, only a sword's length away.
Kristin: Yeah, but he's rapt with Angel's Latin!
Jenny: Oh, he's entranced. Sure, yes. Yes, yes, yes.
Kristin: Yes. I mean, he's like, wow, I've never seen Angel speak Latin while wearing a shirt. [Jenny laughs] This is entertainment! So she beheads the vamp, and then she says, "Hello, lover."
Jenny: Oh… boy.
Kristin: It might be-
Jenny: Wait, is that what he said to her when she got to the cemetery in the last episode?
Kristin: Um…
Jenny: Are they just "hello, lover-ing" each other all the time?
Kristin: Yeah, I mean, essentially. If it wasn't exactly "hello, lover," it was the sentiment of "hello, lover." [Jenny laughs] Right?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: So it's- I think it's a great moment. And this moment of aww yeah, Buffy's gonna fucking… bliggity blah, is increased tenfold when Angel's like, "You're a little outnumbered." [Jenny laughs] "How you gonna take us all?" And Spike is like, "Got this one!"
Jenny: Boing!
Kristin: Yeah, he's like boi-oi-oi-oi-oing! And Spike stands up and Spike clocks Angel…
Jenny: With some kind of metal rod or something.
Kristin: Some kind of- who even cares-
Jenny: Just bap! Bap! Bap!
Kristin: Right, and you think you have had- you think you're enjoying it. You think this is the peak enjoyment you can have. [Jenny laughs] Until Drusilla launches her entire body at Spike. Which is-
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah, with a battle cry. It's… great.
Kristin: Oh my God. [laughs] It's so great. Because, like, even though you know that we're in this battle, where like, it's life and death, it's good and evil, it's whatever. When Dru launches herself on Spike, it feels like the three of them are siblings, you know?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: It feels like, oh, here we go. We're just having a wrestling match.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. And meanwhile, Xander has snuck into to where Giles is being held and he's untying him. And they have this-
Kristin: This is great.
Jenny: Lovely little exchange, where Giles is like, "No no no, I won't be fooled again. They're making spells and they make me see what I wanna see." And Xander's like, "Why would you see me then?" And he's like, "Good point, let's go."
Kristin: Right! Which is so- it's like, funny, but then as you were saying it, I thought, it's so layered. Because- [Jenny laughs] right? Because the whole point of Xander- like, Xander's character is like, I don't have any special skills, I'm just gonna be here to whatever. But somehow- you know, and this is for all the Scoobies. Somehow what they do have to bring is helpful, and in this moment, what Xander has to bring is that he has nothing to bring! [Jenny laughs] And yet still is helpful, 'cause it helps Giles know that it's not a spell. So they leave. Then the sword gets pulled out of the stone.
Jenny: Yep, yep, yep.
Kristin: Which is great 'cause you know what it means, Jenny?
Jenny: What does it mean?
Kristin: [singsongy] Sword fight!
Jenny: Um, wow. [laughs] I didn't expect- although I have "sword fight" written like that in my notes, [Kristin laughs] I was totally unprepared somehow for you to sort of sing-say that at me.
Kristin: Oh, sword fight! First Angel has to break a couple more antiques, of course.
Jenny: Ugh!
Kristin: Always breaking the antique, the Angel.
Jenny: Yeah, it's like, are they really antiques or at this point, is he just buying Ikea?
Kristin: Yeah, he's straight up buying replicas of old shit, 'cause he's like, ugh. Broke the bank with that last fight we had. [Jenny laughs] So yeah, so Buffy and Angel start to sword fight. Meanwhile-
Jenny: Meanwhile, Cordelia's been burning some sage!
Kristin: Oh my God, Cordelia's favorite job is to burn some sage. And Willow gets overtaken.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: This is… intense. So Willow is casting, and like, Willow's dabbled a little bit-
Jenny: Yeah, but she's like, reading.
Kristin: She's- right. She's reading, she's like, I don't think you need to pronounce the words correctly. And then all of a sudden, she like- the scene specifically has her look up to the sky very quickly, up to the ceiling very quickly, and then straight forward very quickly. Very a la Exorcist.
Jenny: Yeah, very effective.
Kristin: Yeah. Super- and it's interesting because, you know, we know something has happened to her. But we really don't know what has- you know, like, is there some kind of spirit that is helping her with this- is it Jenny Calendar?! Like, what's going on here?
Jenny: Oooh!
Kristin: Because, you know, it's not like she just got deeper and deeper into the spell gradually. It's not like she has been a practicing witch and went right in full force. It's like, she was just like, doodly doodly doo. And then it hit- something hit her. We don't know.
Jenny: Yeah. Well, I mean, we'll just have to keep our eyes peeled, moving forward.
Kristin: Yeah! We will, won't we?
Jenny: [adding "h" sounds to the beginning of each word] We will. [Kristin laughs] Then Spike chokes out Drusilla.
Kristin: Yeah, what the fuck?
Jenny: Okay, listen! They don't have breath!
Kristin: They don't have breath!
Jenny: How- why is that- that is a choking-out of convenience!
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: Is what that is.
Kristin: Yeah, I call- I'm calling you out, metaphy-tics.
Jenny: Bull… shit!
Kristin: You don't work this time.
Jenny: No, no, no!
Kristin: My note is, "Dru, dot dot dot, but, dot dot dot, no breath?" [laughter] That's how I wrote down that perplexing moment. Yeah, so, very odd.
Jenny: Not buying it.
Kristin: I mean, how else were you gonna get Dru away from Angel?
Jenny: Right, right right right. She needed to be unconscious.
Kristin: She had to be unconscious but couldn't- I'm like, couldn't she have been knocked unconscious? Wouldn't that have made a little more sense?
Jenny: Yeah, it's weird that he-
Kristin: Just feels like they went out of their way to forget a very large thing that they had already declared on the show?
Jenny: Yeah. Maybe they didn't wanna show Spike punching Drusilla a bunch of times. But, I mean, they did show her punching him- punching her once.
Kristin: Yeah, 'cause he was like, I don't want to hurt you. Blam! [Jenny laughs] But I didn't say I wouldn't. So yeah, Dru gets passed out.
Jenny: Yeah, and then Spike picks her up and has that great moment as he looks out in the courtyard and sees Angel very clearly having the advantage of the swordfight. And he's like, "God, he's gonna kill her." And then just… makes a little face and jaunts away.
Kristin: Yeah, like, eh. Yep. You can never trust a vamp, you know. I mean, come on. Especially Spike. [laughs]
Jenny: Right. Right right right.
Kristin: But Spike did- I mean, to Spike's credit, he did help-
Jenny: He did do what he said he would do.
Kristin: Yes, he did.
Jenny: And then he- uh, a moment later we see him busting out of the haunted castle's basement garage in his car, which, thank God canonically we established last week-
Kristin: Yes, that you can paint your windows!
Jenny: That vampires can drive cars with blacked-out windows. And off he and Dru go.
Kristin: Off they go, leaving us in the courtyard with Angel and Buffy. Now this is a scene.
Jenny: Mm-hmm.
Kristin: This is a scene. Angel says to Buffy, well- and she's like- and this is like a classic image too. This image of Buffy sort of like, crouched down on the floor with the pane of light across her face. You know?
Jenny: Mm, mm-hmm.
Kristin: I've seen that. That is a- it's this gorgeous image. And Angel is saying to her, "Now what are you gonna do? You have no weapons, you have no friends, you have no hope. Take that away- take all of that way, and what's left?" And Buffy is like, "Me, motherfucker. I'm fucking left." And then she grabs the fucking sword in her hands!
Jenny: Mm-hmm!
Kristin: But before I get too worked up, someone really wants to talk about this scene, don't they, Jenny?
Jenny: They sure do.
Kristin: Normally, this person talks about brocade-
Jenny: [laughs] Houndstooth-
Kristin: Velvet-
Jenny: Eyeshadow.
Kristin: But today, today this person is going to be talking about "me."
NOTES: [Jenny singing] It's time for our friend, Kate To give you her Buffy feelings update!
Kate: Welcome, everyone, to a special edition of what I am calling Buffy Feelings Watch. Because this is my favorite moment in the entirety of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, and a moment that I think exemplifies everything that is so good about this show and this cast and its writers and its lore. [laughs] And Joss Whedon has a lot of problems, but this moment is absolutely not one of them. Buffy spends so much of Season 2 in pain. And by that I mean, you know, she loses so much when she loses Angel. She loses her virginity, she loses someone she could trust, she loses something certain in her life. And all of a sudden, this person that she used to care about so much and that used to be this source of comfort and trust for her, even if a little bit uncertain, is killing people she cares about and trying to kill her. And you see her, throughout this season, fight off countless monsters and demons and things that go bump in the night, and she can handle almost everything. But she can't handle him, because it's so close and it's so personal. And I think so many people know what it's like when you have to break up with someone who you finally realize is really toxic for you or- that can even be a friend or a job. But something that- it's so hard to let go, right? It's so hard to take that stand. And this moment does it in this kind of over-the-top way, where yes, it's her ex-boyfriend, the vampire, who's a demon, who's killing people. But in the same way that "Innocence" is so easy to relate to personal experience, I think this episode is, too. It's where Buffy finally, really, finds her strength. And I think you have seen her strength in so many different ways, but this is so personal and she overcomes something that you know is really, really hard. I mean, you can see her take down hyena people and you can see her fight Spike and Drusilla and all of those things are difficult. But they're not hard in the way that this is hard. And I love it. And I remember crying my eyes out watching this the first time as a kid, and not understanding why. And watching it again years later and not understanding why. And then realizing it's because, even though she has been this incredible fighter and done these incredible things and saved the world and been a hero, this moment, when she grabs the sword and when she says "me" and she is finally ready to take down the thing that she thought she could never take down or the thing she wasn't sure she could ever take down. In this moment, she's the motherfucking slayer.
NOTES: [Jenny singing] That was our friend, Kate She gave you her Buffy feelings update!
Kristin: Oh, Kate. Kate, Kate, Kate. This is why we love you. We're so happy to get your feelings in lieu of fashion this week. And until next season, see you at the mall.
Jenny: So back at Sunnydale General…
Kristin: Yes?
Jenny: The spell has been completed and we learn, apparently, once a Thesulan orb has done its job, it just evaporates.
Kristin: Oh my God, it disappears! It disappears! Who knew?
Jenny: It just goes away, into the ether.
Kristin: No wonder why there are so damn many of 'em. [Jenny laughs] Every time you do a spell with it, you need a new one!
Jenny: Yeah, you can't re-use, reduce, recycle Thesulan orbs.
Kristin: [laughs] Right. So the spell works.
Jenny: Oh, God. All too well.
Kristin: The spell works in the moment, the worst moment. You know, isn't that always the way?
Jenny: One might call this a Whedon-esque moment.
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah, one might. So Acathla has opened his weird, warbly mouth. [Jenny laughs] And out a spiral of doom has come.
Jenny: Uh-huh, uh-huh.
Kristin: Actually no, that's not true. Acathla did not open his mouth right away, because first, we have this moment between Buffy and- they do get a moment before the mouth opens.
Jenny: Yeah, where he is stunned, doesn't remember anything.
Kristin: Incredible- David Boreanaz-
Jenny: Great job.
Kristin: Really brilliant acting here, with that like, look up once the soul has hit his body again, you know?
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah.
Kristin: It's just- ugh! Ugh! 'Cause you can see oh my God, Angel. And she sees oh my God, Angel. And my big question- because- and this is why I know Acathla hasn't opened his mouth yet- is Buffy's face… when they come together, right, and she's- he's holding her. [Jenny sighs] And you see her face, and- I just- my note is just, "her face, her face, her face." Because she's overwhelmed and devastated all at once. And my question- because then she gets extra devastated when Acathla's mouth- it's like, she has a moment of realization when the mouth opens. But I feel like she knew before the mouth opened, that the mouth was gonna open.
Jenny: I mean, she had to know because the sword was already out.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: But, I mean, I feel like this is something that Joss does really well. He makes us know that something terrible has happened or is about to happen. Then he gives us something that we want really bad, so that we forget about the terrible thing, until- he gets us to our happiest possible place. And then he's like, "Just kidding, motherfuckers!" [Kristin laughs] And he yanks that rug out. He's very cruel.
Kristin: Yeah. Ugh. And this is the scene. I mean, this is the moment, right? This is a quintessential, heart wrenching, oh - my - God - no - that - could not - have - just - happened moment in this series, where she loses him again and she loses him by her own hand. Because she had to. Because if her life wasn't hard enough, having to be so isolated, having to be so removed from everyone, having to not be able, like she told Joyce, to be up in her room thinking about boys or studying or doing anything, anything that would just feel normal. To make it all that much worse, now she has had to be the one to undo the only thing that she has ever loved, the way that she loved Angel. Right? I mean-
Jenny: Because she had to save the world. Again.
Kristin: Because she had to save the world. Right, again, because this is her task, this is her duty, this is her calling. She doesn't have another choice. And it's not just about choice, to bring us back there, right? 'Cause it's not. It's not just about, she chooses to do this or she doesn't choose to do this. This is who she is, it's something beyond choice. It's some- that word doesn't really carry meaning here.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: She can only be herself.
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: And herself is a person who must save the world. Because she is the only one who can save the world.
Jenny: Oh, man. It's like when Kendra-
Kristin: Kendra! Kendra.
Jenny: Remember when we first met Kendra and she told Buffy that Buffy talks about being the slayer like it's a job, but it's not. It's who she is.
Kristin: Yes, exactly.
Jenny: That's like, I feel like this is full, peak- like, she has 100% changed from somebody who has to be the slayer, to somebody who is the slayer.
Kristin: Yeah. And do you know- all of these feelings we've just summed up. Do you know what the one way is that you could really sum it up without even needing to talk?
Jenny: No, how's that?
NOTES: [Sarah McLachlan song plays] If all of the strength and all of the courage Come and lift me from this place I know I can love you much better than this Full of grace…
Kristin: [sighs]
Jenny: Oh yeah, there it is.
Kristin: God. It's like… is anyone else with me, that like, you- I know. I know we're all about, like, TV- the theme songs and them having- but like. This goes up- in the Buffyverse of music and feelings. Are there many songs that can top what this song does to your heart when you hear it?
Jenny: I can only- off the top of my head, I can only think of one other thing that happens much later in the series, so I can't talk about it.
Kristin: Can't talk about it now, but we'll find out in 14 years. [laughter] But this song- I know you all know what I'm saying. You all probably just cried in your cars from just the clip! Just the tiny clip!
Jenny: Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Kristin: Sarah McLachlan really had a way with us.
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: I mean, she really had her way with us in the 90's. [Jenny laughs] I'm telling you what.
Jenny: [laughing] She had her way with us.
Kristin: She did! She's always making us cry about everything.
Jenny: You're right.
Kristin: I had many a teenage emotion that I set to the soundtrack of Sarah McLachlan. You know?
Jenny: Yeah, yeah yeah yeah.
Kristin: Anyhow. The song doesn't play-
Jenny: Probably not anger. You probably never felt anger and you were like, I need to listen to Sarah.
Kristin: Precisely never. Exactly, never. It was always like-
Jenny: A very specific subset of emotions.
Kristin: Yes. I have deep emotions I cannot express. How can I release them? [Jenny laughs] And then I would reach over to my disc player.
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: And I would hit play- and it would whrrr like a CD does.
Jenny: Yep, yep.
Kristin: It would settle on its little CD face.
Jenny: [laughing] Oh my God, I love this story.
Kristin: And then out Sarah McLachlan would come.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Except for that one time that she sang to me live at the Saratoga Performing Arts Center at the Lilith Fair.
Jenny: Just to you.
Kristin: Just to me! Just to me. Just like Gavin Rossdale sang only to me.
Jenny: Wow. You've really-
Kristin: They all sing- anyhow.
Jenny: Had a time.
Kristin: Sarah McLachlan really tied a bow on this episode of heartbreak.
Jenny: Yeah. Crushing. And while she's crooning to us-
Kristin: Yes, 'cause she begins crooning after this scene.
Jenny: Right. And we see Joyce in her morning robe.
Kristin: [laughing] Yes. I thought you-
Jenny: Just call- oh, "Buffy, are you here?"
Kristin: I thought you were calling it, like, grieving. Like, mourning- her mourning robe.
Jenny: Oh, no no no. Just her AM coffee robe. And she sees Buffy's door is ajar and thinks, maybe oh, Buffy's here but no. Buffy's gone.
Kristin: And Buffy left a note.
Jenny: And Buffy took all of her clothes in the closet, but left some of them on the bed.
Kristin: Yes. Oh, 'cause at first I was like, did she really pack all of her clothes? And then I was like, oh, no no no. I get it. She just-
Jenny: There was a sorting.
Kristin: Yeah, she was like, what clothes will I need for… redacted.
Jenny: Fill in the blank- [laughs] Redacted!
Kristin: [laughs]
Jenny: You know all you ever have to do to get me is say "redacted."
Kristin: Is say "redacted." Yeah so, right. But there's a note and we don't know what the note says. Right? Joyce picks up the note from the bed. And then we go, and this slays me. No pun intended. Is this scene where we find out how lost the Scoobies are without Buffy.
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: It's like, shattering. Giles looks 170 years old in this scene, and they're all-
Jenny: Yeah, and beat to hell.
Kristin: Right. And they're just- they just all look so lost. My-
Jenny: Except for Cordelia. Cordelia looks amazing.
Kristin: Cordelia looks amazing, but Cordelia is also lo- they're all just like, looking at each other. Like, well, she'll be back, right? I mean, she has to be back. And that's also this-
Jenny: [groans]
Kristin: Right. Exactly, 'cause it's like, she has to be back because we have school. And they know- they all know that school is not real. Right? Like, it doesn't even- it's not even-
Jenny: Yeah yeah yeah. That's not what they mean when they say "school."
Kristin: Yeah. Right.
Jenny: Or they're just trying to like, find a way to sort of promise it to themselves.
Kristin: Exactly. They're trying to convince themselves that like, well, we have school, it's just another day, right? It's just another day after we saved the world again, right? And they all are scared. And we're scared. And Buffy is in the bushes.
Jenny: Yeah, in her Jenko's. Her, uh, leaving town-
Kristin: No, they're not even- what are her pants?
Jenny: Massive jeans.
Kristin: They're so big and whooshy. [laughs] Yeah, her pants are really interesting. But yeah, so she's… she's at the school. She's looking at them from afar. She walks to the bus depot, I guess. We were there last for "Inca Mummy Girl."
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: She boards a bus to who-knows-where. I mean, this episode really ends with a lot of characters driving out of Sunnydale.
Jenny: Yeah. Wow.
Kristin: Right? Spike and Dru are in their car-
Jenny: What if Buffy accidentally is going to the same place Spike and Dru are going?
Kristin: [laughs] They all stop at the same diner.
Jenny: Yeah! [laughs]
Kristin: They're like, damnit!
Jenny: I thought I told you…
Kristin: [laughs] So yeah, so we end on the pan-down. The old pan-down. Remember the doily pan-down?
Jenny: Wow, the downward through a doily shot! [laughs]
Kristin: Remember the downward through a doily-
Jenny: [laughing] Yeah.
Kristin: We don't have a doily here, but we do pan downward to "Now Leaving Sunnydale."
Jenny: Yeah. Do towns really have "now leaving" signs or do those only happen in television and film?
Kristin: No, I think some towns have- I mean…
Jenny: Like, y'all come back now.
Kristin: Yeah, and I think like, Brooklyn definitely has a "Fuhgeddaboudit" on the way in, but I'm pretty sure that they have a- like a, "badda bing" on the way out. [Jenny laughs] It's not- it's not "badda bing." I'm falsely advertising Brooklyn signage.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: But they- I think they do have signs as you're leaving too. So I think it's-
Jenny: All right, I accept this.
Kristin: Plausible. I think it's plausible. Oh, my God. You know-
Jenny: What a doozy. What a way to go out of Season 2.
Kristin: And they knew. They knew how much of a doozy it was. They knew how big of a doozy it was that they were like, hey, um, maybe the little "Grr Argh" guy should make a little joke at the end.
Jenny: Oh, buddy.
Kristin: And he does. Just in case you didn't watch all the way through our normal little "Grr Argh!" is- what does he say?
Jenny: Oh, he says, "I need a hug."
Kristin: I need a hug! Just a nice little fun… Easter egg? It's not an Easter egg, but you know what I mean. It's a little-
Jenny: I don't know if vampires observe Easter.
Kristin: Right, right. It's a little… it's a little Saint Vigeous egg.
Jenny: Wow! Throwing it back!
Kristin: For us.
Jenny: To "School Hard"!
Kristin: [sighs] [singing] But slaying's harder! We have done it.
Jenny: We made it all the way through Season 2 without collapsing.
Kristin: I feel nostalgic for Season 2 already. You know? Like, I-
Jenny: Remember- we hardly knew ye.
Kristin: I just- I'm excited. I am so excited to move into Season 3. Truly. But I am, coming to the end of this, like, oh no. I wanna do it again! [Jenny laughs] You know what I mean?
Jenny: Kristin talks all the time about like, as soon as we finish the podcast-
Kristin: We're just gonna start it again!
Jenny: We just start over!
Kristin: [laughs] It would be great. All any of us wanna do- if you're listening to this, you know. All we wanna do is get to the end and start at the beginning again.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: You know? I think we should do two rounds. One round, no spoilers, and one round, all the spoilers.
Jenny: Oooh! That is… an exhausting idea.
Kristin: And by the time we're done, we'll have grandchildren who can take it over for us.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, of course. Perfect.
Kristin: [sighs] Anyhow. [Jenny laughs] Any last thoughts, Jenny, before we wrap up this season? Oh, speaking of wrapping up the season, we will be officially wrapping up the season on July 19th. And we mentioned this at the start of the episode, but just a reminder, if you would like to be featured on the podcast, please send us an email with a voice memo. And let your voicememo tell us, in about 90 seconds or less: your favorite characters from Season 2, your favorite moment in Season 2. And we will pick a handful and have them air on that season wrap-up, so get those in to us. If you can get those in to us before July 10th, that would be extremely helpful for us to turn around that episode. And once again, the email is bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Jenny: Also with any luck, we will be popping up in your feeds next week with a bonus episode in which we discuss… [Kristin squeals] Wonder Woman. I have a feeling that it will be like, 90% me squeaking.
Kristin: Mm-hmm, yes. For sure.
Jenny: And 10% critical film discussion. [Kristin laughs] Looking forward to it.
Kristin: Very much so. Very, very, very much so.
Jenny: Well, I'm Jenny Owen Youngs and it has been my pleasure to serve you for this Season 2 of Buffering the Vampire Slayer. Wow. You can learn more about me at jennyowenyoungs.com/buffering, and you can always give me a holler on Twitter, @jennyowenyoungs.
Kristin: Yes, and I am Kristin Russo. And you can find me on Twitter or on Instagram @kristinnoeline, K-R-I-S-T-I-N-N-O-E-L-I-N-E. I have also thoroughly enjoyed my Season 2 with all of you and cannot wait to be back for Season 3. You can find out, in the meantime, what I do with the rest of my time, the few minutes that are left that are not spent making this podcast [laughs]. My work with LGBTQ young people and their families is found over at everyoneisgay.com and mykidisgay.com.
Jenny: Buffering the Vampire Slayer is and shall remain on Twitter and Facebook [Kristin laughs] @bufferingcast. And you can always email us at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin: You probably know by now the best ways to support us, but you can always go on over to iTunes and leave us a positive review. It helps people find the podcast and the bigger this family grows, the quicker we'll be able to take over the world is how I feel. [Jenny laughs] You can also support us on our Patreon page, over on our website bufferingthevampireslayer.com. There's a link, click on "Patreon" and you can see $1 or $5 or $10 a month. It helps us so, so much, and so many of you give there. Thank you to all of you who are supporting this work. It is really incredible and we are having just so much fun with all of you.
Jenny: Also, hey. Buffering the Vampire Slayer "Songs from Season 2" is available in a CD format.
Kristin: Ooh!
Jenny: In our web store.
Kristin: New cover designed by Kristin Tuna.
Jenny: Amazing, it looks great.
Kristin: It really does.
Jenny: And hopefully it sounds okay. [Kristin laughs] You can find that-
Kristin: It does sound great!
Jenny: Ahhh!
Kristin: Not a salesman.
Jenny: I know. [Kristin laughs] But if you wanna buy it and determine for yourself whether or not it's great, you can do that at bufferingthevampireslayer.com. Just click on "shop" and you will find our CDs and other stuff.
Kristin: Yeah, our links are very self-explanatory.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: Shop. Patreon. Survey. You know? [Jenny laughs]
Jenny: We're simple women. We love self-explanatory menu tabs, Buffy the Vampire Slayer, and howling like a couple of wolves. So, till next time…
Both: AWWOOOOOOO! [Jenny performing "Becoming" off the album "Songs from Season 2" by Buffering the Vampire Slayer] In the time before My life, a thousand open doors Bright and full of possibility Then came the call A pull that I could not ignore A bell that tolled for me and only me Made me the loneliest girl in California The loneliest girl in California I turned to stone Life and death to focus on Till a shadow left the wall and reached for me The slightest smile You walked beside me for a while But mistakes we can't unmake ripped you away From the loneliest girl in California The loneliest girl in California Oooh, oooh, oooooh Deepest well Examination of myself Reveals the way I know it has to be Now comes the call Oh, how I wish I could ignore The bell that tolls for me and only me And I'm the loneliest girl in California I'm the loneliest girl in California
NOTES: [AD BREAK]
Jenny: Once again, today's episode was brought to you by Book of the Month. Book of the Month wants to make sure you love what you read. Browse the five best books of the month and discover titles you wouldn't have found on your own. Get your first book for $10 at bookofthemonth.com/buffering.