Angel On Top
Episode 3.19: The Price
[CHIME]
LaToya: Welcome back to Angel On Top, a podcast where we watch and discuss
every episode of Angel, one by one, spoiler free and in tandem with those bitches
over at Buffering the Vampire Slayer. [Morgan laughs] I’m your co-host, LaToya
Ferguson, AKA the Cordelia Chase of the Buffering verse, AKA Bones, AKA one half
of the Gunn Squad—bang, bang!—AKA Theodore K. Mullins, AKA Gilly, AKA lover of
long winded bits!
Morgan: [laughs] And I’m Morgan Lutich, AKA the Winifred Burkle of the Buffering
verse, AKA also Bones, AKA the other half of the Gunn Squad—pew-pew!—AKA
Frank Scabopolis, AKA sorry! AKA also…a lover…of long winded bits.
LaToya: And this week, we’re watching Angel Season 3, Episode 19, The Price. The
Price was written by David Fury—another David—and directed by Marita Grabiak. It
aired on The WB on April 29th, 2002.
Morgan: And this is the one where the Hyperion is invaded by clear parasitic slugs
as a result of Angel’s big spell.
LaToya: What!
Morgan: Eugh!
LaToya: Sounds like a price to me.
[Angel On Top theme plays]
LaToya: Previously on Angel. Cordy and Gru are back from Mexico! What
happened? Wes thought Angel was gonna kill Connor, he left with the baby and
wasn’t planning to come back. And got psyched by Justine. Again, young me was
traumatized already, and they kept showing the throat-slitting. Every week,
previously on Angel, slit!
Morgan: [laughs] Oh no!
LaToya: Slit!
Morgan: No!


LaToya: The Quor'toth portal opened up and then Holtz pushed Justine to run away
with baby Connor.
Morgan: Hilarious.
LaToya: Lorne says there are no portals to Quor'toth, you’re punching through the
fabric of time using dark, dark magic.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Angel did that dark, dark magic after torturing Linwood, who got Lilah to
help. Nothing happened when he did the spell! Then he dropped Linwood down the
stairs. It was hilarious.
Morgan: Very funny.
LaToya: Angel tries to kill Wes, also kind of hilarious. [Morgan snorts] Cordy says
“I’m so sorry” to Angel and comforts him. Less hilarious.
Morgan: Mmhmm. Dang. What a ride it has been. LaToya, how’d you feel about
The Price?
LaToya: I mean, in general, I’ve always kind of really enjoyed this episode. It
seems like the kind of one that would traumatize me.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: But no, that is actually After Life from Season 6 of Buffy, which is a similar
premise.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: That’s the episode that traumatizes me, as opposed to this one. This is
just little fun, translucent slugs. Rewatching this episode though, it’s like—it wasn’t
able to go as full tilt horror as it wanted to.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And then I did also note beforehand that the Wolfram & Hart scenes—as
much as we love Wolfram & Hart scenes, we love Lilah and we love Gavin and their


whole little thing—like, those weren’t in the shooting script. So they added those
after the fact and I’m not sure—I’m still not sure why.
Morgan: Yeah. That is strange, ‘cause it seems like with—and what I had said
before—with that in mind, it seems like they basically planned to make it like a
bottle episode. And to kind of more of a, like, The Thing thing. Which, I love The
Thing and that rules. And I would have loved to see kind of, like, paranoia between
all of them, wondering, you know, who got slugged up and who didn’t. But instead,
it’s just like, oh, Fred got slugged up and it’s quite obvious. But I don’t know—
LaToya: Yeah—
Morgan: Yeah, it’s not quite as tense as you assume it is going to be once you find
out there are, like, face-hugger parasites, essentially.
LaToya: Mmhmm. It starts off well, I think. And it’s ‘cause, like, Wolfram & Hart
scenes happen—like, there’ll be a scene like, “where’s Gunn?” and then the next
scene should be Gunn going to Wes. That’s what’s the next scene in the script. But
instead, you have a Wolfram & Hart scene—
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: In between that scene. They keep doing it. It’s like, oh, we—the audience
sees now there are more slugs, and then immediately you go to Wolfram & Hart
instead of the scene where Cordelia and them realize there are more slugs. It’s,
like, used as a buffer, so maybe it’s also to fill for time? Which, again, we’re not
saying we don’t want Lilah and Gavin’s pettiness in this episode. That’s always fun.
Morgan: I need it.
LaToya: But it just seems like it is possibly filler. Because also—we’ll get there—but
Gavin’s play, I don’t think is good? [both laugh]
Morgan: Oh, I can’t wait to hear about another beautiful boy with bad plans.
[LaToya laughs] But yeah, no, I agree. It does feel like it also reduces the urgency
of it, which normally, I feel like you wanna increase the urgency of everything so it
feels more important and vital and necessary. But yeah, it also just feels like, you
know, Fred gets slugged up and you’re like, I mean, it’s not a finale. It’s gonna be
fine.
LaToya: [singsong] Who gets slugged up?


Both: [singsong] Fred gets slugged up! [both laugh]
Morgan: So yeah. It’s just kind of a weird one, where it’s one of those ones where
it’s like, I mean, I know nothing’s gonna happen to anybody. So how much can I be
worried? But that said, there are a couple things and scenes in this episode that I
really, really like.
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: And we’ll talk about them.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: But first up, we have to open the episode with B roll of Santa Monica,
because this show loves to mess with specifically us. [laughs]
Morgan: I was furious. I saw Santa Monica and I was like, okay, are we beginning
in Santa Monica? Of course, no, we’re beginning at the Hyperion, and I’m like, this
is a personal attack on the two of us and our feelings on this show and LA
geography.
LaToya: [laughing] Like, what is it doing? This is not the episode to start with B roll
of Santa Monica, first of all.
Morgan: Yeah, they don’t go outside in it! [both laugh]
LaToya: They go across the street, and that’s it. Then they come back home. [both
laugh]
Morgan: Fools.
LaToya: [laughing] Santa Monica’s across the street from the Hyperion.
Morgan: Yeah, you can just walk right over to the pier. [both laugh]
LaToya: It’s like The Simpsons. It’s Springfield geography with the rest of the
United States.
Morgan: Absolutely. I’m just imagining Angel walking across the street and riding
the roller coasters on the pier. [both laugh] Just for fun. For kicks. So we open in


Angel’s room. He is brooding. And Groo comes up to him and says he has
something really important to talk about. And it’s that he doesn’t think
pomegranate mist is the right color for this room.
LaToya: How dare you, Groo?
Morgan: [laughs] His suggestion is sunburst splendor, which is an orange color, or
perhaps the color purp-luh, ‘cause he can’t say purple. He doesn’t know it. I guess
they don’t have purple in, uh…[pause]
LaToya: [laughing] Pylea!
Morgan: Pylea, lord! Good job, Morgan. You’re a professional. Yeah, I guess they
don’t have purple in Pylea, which is why it’s such an awful place to be.
LaToya: It’s probably also why Lorne wears a lot of purple. That’s part of his
rebellion, too.
Morgan: [laughs] An act of rebellion.
LaToya: Angel gives him crap for not knowing how to pronounce purple, but
knowing how to pronounce pomegranate. That’s where we learn that Groo’s
mother’s name was Pomegranate. And that’s beautiful.
Morgan: He says it so gently. He’s like, “That was…my mother’s name,” and I’m
like, how could anyone ever—anyone, ever—not love this boy? [laughs]
LaToya: Also, Angel, don’t give him crap about purple. Like, purple is one of your
colors. He looks good in purple, man. Shut up.
Morgan: Yeah, whatever. Yeah, get over yourself. So—
LaToya: But I do love—it’s that, like, Fred’s like, “We were just thinking. Well,
actually, I was thinking,” and Groo agrees. [both laugh] Because Groo is a himbo.
Morgan: But then Cordelia does add, like, “Groo actually has really good color
sense, so you should listen to him.” And I’m like, see, this is why this has worked
for so long, even though there are fundamental problems in this relationship. It’s
because I do think they are—they have a foundation of good friendship. And you
can bond a lot over color sense. [laughs]


LaToya: The pomegranate line, I do have in my notes, that was his mother’s
name, which is extremely sweet—in all caps—Kristin. [laughs]
Morgan: Hmm. [laughs]
Kristin: I mean…[LaToya laughs] Are you already inquiring admittance to my
corner?
[KRISTIN'S CORNER jingle plays]
Kristin's Corner! Kristin's Corner!
It's all Riley sucks and what the fuck
And horny is hot
Kristin's Corner is the place
For very deep thoughts
LaToya: I’m just saying how my notes work, where I call you out even in my
notes.
Kristin: Yeah. I will say this. Like, when I have a strong feeling, I have a strong
feeling. I go all the way there. I agree with you. I think that this is a very sweet
episode for Groo. And I also do not feel as much animosity towards Groo as I did in
the beginning. And I think it’s because of his consistency. But he’s kinda part of the
gang in this episode, you know?
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And I am here to say, you are correct. [Morgan gasps] Groo is a himbo
that I can be on board with—
LaToya: Yes!
Kristin: As of Season 3, Episode 19 of Angel. [laughs]
Morgan: Siri, play Vindicated. [laughter]
[Music from “Vindicated” by Dashboard Confessional starts playing; fades out]
Kristin: Wow. What a hot, spicy corner from me. Please—
Morgan: Ooh!


Kristin: Please go on. Go on your merry way, enjoy talking about these fucking
slugs. Also, before I go, LaToya. Just a great reference point with After Life,
because I was thinking, of course, of the same—that, like, these are both universes
saying there is a price. Guys, get it?
LaToya: I mean, it’s the exact same term and I’m going to talk about that in this
episode, so.
Kristin: Fantas—I can’t wait. I’m here. I’m here listening. I get a front row seat. I
get to watch the live show, so. [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah, we—
Kristin: Thank you for coming to my corner. Me and Groo are gonna hang out here
for the rest of the episode. We’re just gonna, like—
Morgan: [simultaneously] Oh my god, wait, can I stay?
Kristin: Cuddle. You know?
LaToya: [laughing] You and Sahjhan?
Kristin: [simultaneously] I’m gonna big-spoon Groo. He’s gonna baby-spoon.
LaToya: Aww.
Kristin: Yeah, he’s gonna be my baby spoon. [laughs]
Morgan: Aw, that makes me happy.
LaToya: [simultaneously] Oh! Which actually also reminds me, Morgan, have you
listened to the latest episode of Buffering?
Morgan: I have not yet. But I was told by one Jenny that I influenced a little bit of
the song.
LaToya: Ooh.
Morgan: So I was really stoked.
Kristin: [laughing] Ooh-hoo-hoo!


Morgan: Jenny’s released two songs today. One of which I influence, and the other
one that’s about, like, wanting—[Kristin laughs] like, your girl that you’re into and
the guy that’s not pleasing her. And I was like, [Kristin laughs] this is infinitely
probably, like, the less cool, sexy side to have influenced. [laughter] But I
appreciate it anyway.
LaToya: Well, I was noting—we’ll talk more about it, but I wanted to note it
because…[laughs] it was just, like, Ira calling Buffy a bitch many, many times
[laughter] during the episode. And it’s so funny.
Morgan: Okay, Ira. Come on Angel On Top. We also start shit with Buffy.
[laughter]
LaToya: [laughing] And what does he—he said she’ll come to LA and just be a
bitch to everyone. And I’m like, yes!
Kristin: [laughing] Yes!
Morgan: That is what she does when she comes to LA. [laughter] She doesn’t
come to LA to be nice.
LaToya: No. [laughter]
Morgan: But to be fair, neither did I, so. [laughter]
Kristin: Wow.
LaToya: You didn’t come here to be nice?
Morgan: Came here to be number one! [laughter]
Kristin: And on that note, I’m gonna bow out and let you continue being number
one and number one, both of you. [laughter]
LaToya: Thank you.
Morgan: Thank you.
LaToya: Just like Bones.
Morgan: Yeah.


[KRISTIN'S CORNER jingle plays]
Kristin's Corner! Kristin's Corner!
LaToya: Yes. Angel is refusing to let them toss anything, despite the fact this is the
charred remains of his bedroom, or change any colors. He just wants it all back to
the way it was. Or as close to it, you know.
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: No baby Connor, so it’s not completely. Yeah.
Morgan: And Cordy’s like, that is not gonna happen. And before we can really get
into that, Angel is sidetracked by a snow globe that he bought for Connor. And he’s
like, “I don’t know why I even bought this. I thought he’d like to look at it. It never
snows in Southern California.” To which Cordy replies, “It did once.” And I’m like,
hell yeah!
LaToya: She’s talking about Amends! [laughs]
Morgan: Hell yes, Amends, bitch. “Am I a righteous man?” Yes! Yes, you are, king!
LaToya: Is that your favorite line in the history of Buffy? You do quote that line a
lot, Morgan.
Morgan: It’s because it’s never not good to quote. Because it’s so iconic. Them
walking through the snow, gotta be—like, as someone who also grew up in a place
where it never snows and it snowed one time and it was a huge deal. That episode
remains very important in my life. It—the snowing—the one time it snowed in
Scottsdale, Arizona short circuited people so much that the yearbook page—we had
a yearbook page entirely dedicated to the one afternoon it snowed. And it—no one
spell checked it. ‘Cause it was like, “one day, it snow.” [laughter] And I was
like…truly, like, full meme speak. I have to find it and take pictures of it and send it
to everyone, because it’s near and dear to my heart. Because that is—it’s as if no
Arizonian could handle the fact that it snowed once. [laughter]
LaToya: I mean, one day, it snow, Morgan.
Morgan: One day, it snow. [laughs] So one day, it snow in Sunnydale. And that
was because Angel’s a nice boy. So Angel’s like, “Hey, why don’t we get to work?
Like, why are we working on my room when we could be doing our jobs?” And
Fred’s like, “Because we have no cases?”


LaToya: And then again, I remind everyone, it took them twelve episodes this
season to get a paid case. And then it just came raining in, obviously. [laughs]
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: In that one episode, they’re still not having paid cases.
Morgan: And, like, to get that money, Angel had to be like a full-on money
monster, so it’s hard to get paid doing this is I think what we’re learning.
LaToya: Angel’s deciding denial is the way to go.
Morgan: Mmhmm. Anyways, down in the lobby we have a customer come in. The
lobby is empty. He is surprised to see the pentagram that is still there. Oops. And
he’s, like, ringing the door—ringing—you know, he doesn’t ring the bell. That was
something that bothered me ‘cause he keeps calling out, like, “Hello, is anyone
there?” And I’m like, there’s a little bell. That’s what the little bell is for, on the
desk. But he does not ring the little bell. And he says, “Alright. I guess, you know,
I’ll find my dog myself.” Which, when I watched this for the first time with friend of
the show, Michael Chasin, and what happened to this man happens, he goes, “Oh
my god. Is anyone ever gonna find the dog?” And I…had to stop the episode and,
like, curl up in a ball and be like, “It’s not real. It’s not a real show. There’s no dog
that’s in danger. It’s fine.” [both laugh]
LaToya: Oh my god. The dog should have showed up at Wes’s door at the end of
the episode. He needs it.
Morgan: Just like, a little dog sidekick for Wes. I would love that. He does need
that. A little emotional support animal. So then, a spooky, clear slug shows up and
jumps on his face and into his mouth. Whoops! [laughs]
LaToya: According to the script, these slugs are called “slucks,” so you know, slug
with a K. [Morgan laughs] I don’t wanna call it that. It sounds like a slur to me. I’m
just gonna call it a slug.
Morgan: Yeah, let’s just call ‘em clear slugs. Yeah, they—yeah, so the slug
jumps—yeah, I don’t care for that. Ew. That’s not—
LaToya: I don’t like it.
Morgan: That word has terrible mouth feel. [both laugh]


LaToya: Just looking at it makes me angry.
Morgan: Eugh! So Angel sees the guy and is like, “Hey! Like, I’m Angel. Like, how
can I help you?” And the guy’s just like, “We have to go.” And leaves.
LaToya: Well, we should also note, because—and this will get into something that
kind of upsets—not upsets, but frustrates me about the episode. So Angel obviously
is giddy to have a distraction. He’s also still holding the snow globe. The snow globe
is very much Chekhov’s snow globe. And I remembered, like, what happens with
Fred and the snow globe. I kind of don’t like that there is no follow-up from Angel.
‘Cause that’s, like, his last piece of his son? And we don’t get any of that. And it
seems like, considering how much directorial focus there is on the snow globe—
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: The fact that there’s no follow-up on Angel’s behalf for that makes no
sense to me.
Morgan: I think you’re right, that makes a lot of sense. Like, it is just—it exists to
be a plot device. And that is something that usually, the show is a little better about
following up on and closing the loop on, so that’s disappointing.
LaToya: Mmhmm. ‘Cause it’s like, Angel and the glass of blood—like, this
season—there was a follow-up to that, obviously.
Morgan: Yeah. So I guess the thing is, like, it doesn’t matter because…the end of
the episode happens. So I guess he doesn’t need the snow globe anymore. Our
next scene’s in the lobby. Cordy is kind of asking about the dark magic that Angel
did. The voodoo that he do-did. And she’s like, you know, “What about a big cosmic
price? Especially because the one person who might be able to help us isn’t with us
anymore.” Angel does not like Wes even being referenced obliquely. He gets really
angry and starts kind of, like, explaining himself, and then it just makes him sad.
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: And Cordy—
LaToya: You would think that Wesley went over to UPN, the way they refuse to say
his name. [both laugh]


Morgan: True, yeah, the W word. And Cordy says, “Well, why didn’t you call me?”
And Angel says, “I didn’t wanna mess up your vacation. I figured that one of us
should be happy.”
LaToya: Oof.
Morgan: The way he just, like, sees himself as this big anchor around her makes
me so sad. Cordy does not like that. She’s like, “Well, I could have helped.” And
then she gets really angry and then upset. And both of them are like, I guess we
both need to vent about this.
LaToya: I do like that Angel notes, like, the fact that he did the spell and
everything. He was still actually drunk off Connor’s blood. That’s, like, part of the
reason he wasn’t thinking clearly. That’s part of the reason he tried to kill Wesley.
Like, that’s why he went that far. It wasn’t just his normal grievance. Like, he was
also just fucked up.
Morgan: Yeah, he was kind of a version of himself that he can’t fully recognize.
And, like, you know, it’s still him. But it’s like, he was under the influence of
something. Not only, like, immense grief and horror, but like, you know, blood. I do
think that’s really important to acknowledge. And I like that—so Angel says to
Cordy, “I’m just trying to move on like you said.” And I just wanted to note that I
think this is really smart writing. Something like having a son and then having that
son taken away into a weird scary hell dimension is the kind of thing that you’re
like, well, why doesn’t he just, like, sit in a room by himself for, like, a year? You
know, like, why is he not immobile on the floor with grief? Is an easy question, I
think, that you can ask.
And I think it’s really important that they not minimize the pain and the hurt and
the sadness and the anger that they’re both feeling. But rather, they talk about it
and they create an in-story reason to focus on, you know, the premise of the show.
Because as much—as beautiful as the Angel and Cordelia stuff is in Double or
Nothing, it’s not really standard Angel fare. It’s not really, like, what the show looks
like all the time. And this is, I think, like, a way to get back on course that does not
betray or sell out any of these characters. And that’s something that I think isn’t
always easy to do and isn’t always done. And I just wanted to note that I thought it
was, like, really great and really true to all of them, while also being smart for the
show. Because as much as I love those scenes, I can’t watch them be sad in a room
together every week, or I’ll cry and cry and cry and nothing will get done. [laughs]
LaToya: I mean. Yeah, because this is—this whole story, really, is kinda one of
those things where you can just imagine the writers being like, okay, so how do we


move past this? How do we move past Angel losing his son to a hell dimension?
How do we move past Angel’s grief and Cordelia’s grief for not being there for him?
How do we do these things? How do we not write Wesley off the show?
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Like, that’s a big question too. ‘Cause I can—I imagine a world—another
world where, like, Wesley is written off the show because of this storyline.
Morgan: Absolutely. Like, they wrote themselves into, like, a tough corner. Which
is a compliment, because they work their way out of it really wonderfully. And I
think a lot about how they talk about the writers’ room for Breaking Bad and Better
Call Saul, is that they’re constantly putting themselves in impossible situations that
they have to work out of. I think, like, that’s the best and most exciting kind of
drama, is this kind of thing. So it’s high risk, but also really high reward. And I
think the show does a really great job with it, despite me not necessarily, like,
loving and being over the moon about this episode. I think that this element of it is
handled really, really well.
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: Yeah. So, Cordy essentially says, “Okay, well, fucking call me next time.”
[laughs] And that’s deeply valid. And Angel’s like, “Of course I will. But in the
meantime, I need a case. Like, I need to just think about something else.” And
well, he’s about to get it. Over at Jamba Juice…[laughs]
LaToya: Apparently there’s a Jamba Juice across the street from Angel
Investigations. [laughs]
Morgan: Give me a Razzmatazz! I’m Charles Gunn. [both laugh] That’s what he’s
always saying.
LaToya: No one else finds this funny, but we do.
Morgan: I like this a lot. So the customer that we saw get all slugged up is there.
And he is very thirsty and he continues to refer to himself as “we.” Then, over at
Wolfram & Hart, there’s a very fun little cut from him being thirsty to, like, Lilah’s
face distorted through the water cooler. And I’m like, ‘cause water. ‘Cause thirst. I
get it. [LaToya laughs] I write in my notes, Lilah is in a dope Ally McBeal skirt suit.
LaToya: [laughing] Isn’t she always?


Morgan: She—this one—this skirt’s, like, pretty short. I was like, this—like, Calista
Flockhart would be proud. She’s so fucking cool. [laughs]
LaToya: The opposite of cool is Gavin, who is back, who’s congratulating her for
Angel trying to kill one of his people. He is late on that one. [Morgan laughs] And
Lilah’s like, “You are late on that one.” [laughs]
Morgan: It’s so funny. Yeah, she’s like, “Maybe you’ll find out about fire next.”
Gavin is so condescending about being like, “I’m trying to pay you a compliment.”
Nothing is grosser than a man wanting a cookie…period, end of sentence. But like, I
mean, for complimenting you like an asshole. I used to work with a guy who would
do a lot of those kinds of compliments. Like, “Oh, you actually did a really good job
on this.” Or like, “I think that’s actually pretty smart.”
LaToya: Ugh.
Morgan: And—like he was a nice person, and I would be like, “Well, you’re actually
a piece of shit.” [both laugh]
[THE PATRIARCHY jingle plays]
The patriarchy! [thunder clap, evil laughter]
LaToya: Gavin, Gavin. He says, “In any case, Angel tried to kill a human, bringing
him one step closer to his dark side, one step closer to us.” And I’m—like, this
always gets me.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Does Wolfram & Hart not get how Angel becomes Angelus? They don’t
seem to get it. [both laughing] They seem to think that torture is the key to—the
whole “you catch more bees with honey.” ‘Cause, you know, the moment of true
happiness thing. At least Darla knew, and like, that’s why she fucked him.
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: And hoped that would help. But like…they really think just making him
really sad is gonna help.
Morgan: I’m imagining myself as the one lawyer at Wolfram & Hart who’s trying to
do the positive approach, who every day is sending Angel, like, a different gift
basket. [LaToya laughs] Or, like, flyers for classes to get into new hobbies and


things that will be, like, emotionally fulfilling for him. Like, it’s like, Angel really just
needs to get into kayaking and then he’ll be truly fulfilled. [laughs]
LaToya: Honestly, if they just let him be a parent, that would have triggered it.
Morgan: Yep! [both laugh]
LaToya: You doofuses.
Morgan: Me at every meeting being like, “Yeah, so I sent Angel an Edible
Arrangement. And a flyer to—so he can, like, learn Japanese at the learning annex.
I think he’ll really love it.” And everyone’s like, “Shut up, Morgan!” But that’s…[both
laugh] so very close to my real life. [both laugh] But Lilah points out—she’s like,
“Okay, yeah, he smothered one guy with a pillow. Remember when he killed a wine
cellar full of lawyers?” And I write in my notes, progress is not a straight line, Lilah.
[laughs] Gavin tries to shame her for losing the baby. And Lilah’s like, “Okay. Let’s
please remember that under my watch, Angel tried to kill Wes, kidnapped Linwood
and threatened to torture him, and did a bunch of dark magic.” And this is where I
note that I guess her questionable behavior last week, like, could be seen as doing
the big, greater mission of encouraging Angel’s dark side, in that she was doing all
of that stuff. And I’m like, if I were Lilah, that is what I would say in all of my
paperwork.
LaToya: What they should have done—what they should do—
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Is just non-stop roofie Angel, like Rebecca does in Eternity.
Morgan: There we go.
LaToya: But just keep it going.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: So at least he’s not—he’s faux jealous, as we know from there.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: But it works.
Morgan: It’s something!


LaToya: It’s a better plan than anything Gavin has to say. Just to be clear, I don’t
support roofie’ing people. [both laughing] I feel like I need to say this,
because…you know.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: I’m just saying, there is an established, canonical approach they could
attempt to take.
Morgan: You are suggesting an idea for the bad guys. Not—
LaToya: Yes.
Morgan: A good thing that you think should happen and wish did. [both laugh]
Yeah.
LaToya: Just to be clear.
Morgan: So our next scene takes place in the lobby. Fred and Gunn are peeking in
on Angel, who is sitting at the desk in the office, looking sadly at the snow globe.
LaToya: Yeah, the scene literally opens with a close-up on the snow globe.
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: See what I mean?
Morgan: Mmhmm. They’re like, by the way, this snow globe, huh? And I’m like,
hmm, wonder if anything will come of this pesky snow globe. So Fred is wondering,
like, if there’s any way to move forward with Angel and Wes. Like, she’s like,
“Maybe not forgiveness, but at least, like, acknowledgement or something.” And
Gunn’s like, “No. Maybe if he brings the baby back, but even then, Angel will
probably kill him on principle.” Ouch.
LaToya: And I’m like, you guys know, like, Angel can hear all of this, right? [both
laugh]
Morgan: No, he’s too busy all-consumingly looking at the snow globe. [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah, it’s interesting ‘cause Fred’s like, “It’s weird seeing Angel sitting at
the desk.” And Gunn’s like, “Well, this is what I’m used to, actually, so.” [laughs]


Morgan: Mmm.
LaToya: “This is, yeah, back to normal for me.” Which, yeah. Angel is officially
back in charge of Angel Investigations, because Wesley fucked up more than Angel
did.
Morgan: [laughs] Didn’t—they said it couldn’t be done. [both laugh]
LaToya: Wesley buys Cordelia new clothes. [both laughing] See if that works.
Morgan: Buys Angel new clothes, even. [both laugh] Imagining Angel with his bags
full of silk shirts, being like, “All’s forgiven, Wes!” [both laugh] I’m in. We pan over
to Cordy and Groo, who are working on scrubbing the pentagram away. But it just
doesn’t seem to be happening, so Cordy’s like, “I wanna buy a big rug and cover it
up. Who’s with me?” To which Groo replies, “That honor is mine, Princess.”
LaToya: Aww.
Morgan: I drew so many hearts around this. Then Fred tries to pull Cordy aside,
but Cordy is busy mooning over Groo to Fred and says…
[Clip from episode plays]
Cordelia: He’s such a sweetie. So loyal and loving, like a puppy dog.
Fred: Cordy—
Cordelia: I know, that didn’t sound very good, but he is. A puppy dog. A
sexy, well-built, go-all-night puppy dog.
Morgan: “Go all night,” huh? [laughs]
LaToya: [laughing] He makes, like, a dick joke later in the episode.
Morgan: He does. So if it wasn’t clear, the Groosalugg fucks. [both laugh] And we
love him.
LaToya: He’s packin’.
Morgan: Hell yeah. Good for him. And good for Cordy.


LaToya: Yeah, my notes say, ol’ girl really did need to get laid. [laughs]
Morgan: Truly. [laughs] Again, how can we say bad things about this relationship
when Cordy finally got to get some? Very important, very lovely, you love to see it.
So Cordy pretty much sees where Fred is going and is like, “No. I’m not gonna talk
to Angel about Wes.” Because she knows it won’t work. And she’s like, “Yeah, I
don’t care if Wes is hurting, because Angel’s feelings are the only ones I care
about.” So Groo hears that. And he’s sad.
LaToya: He may not know how to pronounce purple, but he knows how to walk in
at the absolute wrong time and hear things out of context.
Morgan: Yeah. It’s, like, such a bummer. And Cordy does not notice this from
Groo, possibly because she’s distracted by a vision of Angel being thrown across the
room. But before we can really even get into any of this, Lorne shows up in a hat
and a trench coat.
LaToya: Aw, yeah.
Morgan: And he says that’s a brouhaha at the juice bar. [laughs]
LaToya: I do have a—like, how do you feel about Fred asking Cordy, “Can you
imagine how much pain Wesley’s in, how horrible he must be feeling?” Like, what
about Angel? What about the pain Angel’s in and how he’s feeling?
Morgan: I assume the idea’s like, obviously we’re all caring for and acknowledging
Angel’s pain. But Wes is alone without any of us. And I think it’s the idea of being
like, you’re his closer friend. Like, you’ve known him for longer. Like, don’t
you—aren’t you worried about him? Or, like, has it not occurred to you to worry
about him because you’re so busy worrying about Angel? Like, I thought it came
more from a place like that. But fair.
LaToya: Yeah, I—like, Wesley did a thing where he knew he could never see them
ever again anyway, even if it succeeded.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Like, that was going to be the outcome, regardless.
Morgan: Yeah. I mean, I’m assuming—I mean, it’s Wes. Maybe he was like,
“Maybe he’ll be really—” I mean, given Angel being constantly like, “You might have
to kill me one day” every other second. Maybe Wes was like, “He’ll probably love


that I did this.” [both laugh] Then over at the juice bar, Cordy’s warning Angel
about her vision, but he’s like, “We’re kinda busy here.” We see—
LaToya: I love the employee who runs out and says, “Dude’s got Ebola or
something!” [both laugh]
Morgan: I love the guy who’s like, “Sir, you had so many juices!” and all this—that
actor. Thank you.
LaToya: This is acting we are getting in this scene.
Morgan: I loved it. So Angel recognizes the client, Mr. Spivy, who is chugging
blenders of juice and smoothies, and keeps being like, “We’re thirsty!” [both laugh]
Weird.
LaToya: I mean, I feel like that’s something you loved, every time someone said
“we’re thirsty.”
Morgan: Oh my god, yeah. It was so goofy. I was like, hell yeah, spooky, creepy,
thirsty guys! Angel knocks the guy out and he’s excited to have a case. And
meanwhile, this guy’s so dehydrated that his skin is cracking and looking all dusty.
LaToya: He’s literally cracking up. As Lorne said, he was cracking up. He’s literally
cracking up.
Morgan: We love to see it. So then in the lobby, we’re bringing him back. Angel is
kind of making a—he’s noticed the “we” thing repeatedly. Cordy keeps wanting to
talk about the vision, is like, “You’re in danger.” And Angel’s like, “Come on, let’s
focus on other people’s problems for a change.” Like, he’s really trying to be in
denial so he can keep his mind off the Connor stuff. He’s like, “This isn’t about me.”
[both laughing] And then…of course, the guy stands up and points at Angel and
goes, “You! This is all because of you! It’s all your fault!” And then he topples to the
ground and turns to dust, and I was thrilled.
LaToya: Right onto the pentagram, in case you’re wondering, how is this all Angel’s
fault? [both laugh]
Morgan: So then, we see the clear slug come out of him and skitter away. And—a
great season for the word “skitter.” And this is where Groo is like, “Oh, this looks
like these glass eels that were back on Pylea.” And nobody finds that helpful, and
I’m like, that is helpful.


LaToya: It worked the one time when there was a demon that reminded him of
something in Pylea. But he didn’t seem to have any answer for how to stop them,
so I guess it didn't matter?
Morgan: Yeah, I guess not that helpful. So Angel’s like, “How is this my fault?” And
Cordy points out where he fell. And we—like, time-cut to the lobby a little bit later.
They’ve locked down the hotel to prevent the spread of the, you know, slug
parasitic infection. And they’re passing out weapons. This is where the dick joke
happens. [both laugh]
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: Where Angel’s like—sees the big, huge battleax Groo’s taking and is like,
“A little big, isn’t it?” And Groo’s like, “I haven’t had any complaints.” [both laugh]
And I was like, fair enough. Groo is, like, never petty about the Angel and Cordy
thing. And this is barely doing it, so go off. Good for you. Vent a little. It’s allowed.
LaToya: Fred has to be on the books but she has no idea where to look.
Morgan: But before she’s on the books, she’s vacuuming up the guy’s remains with
a tiny hand vac. [both laugh]
LaToya: That is disgusting.
Morgan: That is…disrespectful. [both laugh] So Angel’s like, “Yeah, Fred, you gotta
be on the books.” And she’s like, “Oh, well, I don’t know where to start.”
LaToya: And he tells her thaumogenesis.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And she’s like, “I don’t know what that is.” And he’s like, “Creatures
manifested as a byproduct of using dark magic.” It’s like, maybe, Angel, you should
be the one on the books. Obviously, Buffy just had that, in Season 6, with After
Life.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: They use the term and everything. And then, my guess is that she must
have told Angel when they had their meet-up on The CW—
Morgan: Mmhmm.


LaToya: Which is what I call the in-between of UPN and The WB, off-screen.
Morgan: Adorable. Love it. [both laugh]
LaToya: Yes. And also, like, our biggest example besides After Life is Superstar,
with the demon that came as a result of Jonathan’s spell to make him a superstar.
Morgan: [sighs] Jonathan. What a cool guy.
LaToya: I mean, not right now in Season 6 of Buffy.
Morgan: No. But in that episode. Were I in the universe of Superstar. I’d really like
Jonathan. So yeah, Gunn’s gonna stick with Fred and keep her safe and everyone
else has to go off hunting. So we start with Angel and Lorne. They’re, like, walking
down the hall and Angel doesn’t wanna hear it about the spell, even though Lorne is
very much in “I told you so” mode. And he’s like, “I don’t care. It was for my son.
Even though it didn’t work, I’d do it again because it was for him.”
LaToya: I was like, Hope Mikaelson wishes. [laughs]
Morgan: [laughing] Yeah, truly. Menace. Yeah, Angel? Not a menace. Unlike Hope
Mikaelson.
LaToya: Angel, surprisingly not a menace.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: He has so many, like, chances to be a menace.
Morgan: So they go into this—into a room that is also pomegranate mist painted.
And they go—they find the bathroom door ajar, so they go in there. And the slug,
not unlike a puppy, is drinking from the toilet.
LaToya: See, what Dahlia used to do—’cause she loves her water. She would go
into the bathtub [Morgan gasps] and she would try to drink the water from the
faucet.
Morgan: Aww!
LaToya: ‘Cause that’s like, when we first got her. ‘Cause I’m sure—I imagine she
probably didn’t get water often.


Morgan: Aww.
LaToya: So she, like, wanted to get water wherever she could get it. And yeah.
Morgan: Aww, Dahlia.
LaToya: Love Dahlia. The best pup.
Morgan: Dahlia, I love you.
LaToya: [simultaneously] It’s unnecessary for any of this, but Dahlia’s the best and
I wanted to share that.
Morgan: Dahlia’s the best. Yeah, don’t cut this. The world has to know.
LaToya: Dahlia’s the best, also Chewie. Can’t forget about Chewie.
Morgan: [simultaneously] Also Chewie. Yeah. Dahlia, Chewie, tied for the best.
So—yeah, so Angel is able to, like, pin the thing to the floor with a dagger. And it
seems like it’s stuck for a second, and then the little slug skitters away and is able
to pull itself free.
LaToya: [simultaneously] Yeah, this is where I use “skitters” in my notes. And it’s
cool. That’s what I was saying about the horror stuff, because, like, there’s the
tension when they’re about to open the door. And then you just see the debris
from, like, the lid of the toilet at first. Like, that’s the first thing you see so you’re
like, oh, it’s probably just a messy area in the hotel, ‘cause that’s what it is. And
then you see the slug, slurping [both laugh] out of the lid and like, holy shit. I think
the other thing about this episode is that the slugs look cool until the lights are off.
Because then you have to, like, really focus on the effect. And then that’s—it’s
really goofy. Like, when the lights are on, it’s just—it looks much better.
Morgan: The idea that they’re, like, a little hard to see with the lights being on and
like, you kind of are mostly seeing through them and it’s mostly a shape and a
movement is really, like, disconcerting. So yeah, when they become kind of just like
glow worms later, it’s less scary. Or like, weird little glow lobsters. Like, it’s just not
quite as upsetting. But—
LaToya: Globsters.


Morgan: [laughs] Globster—yeah, if you will. And I will. So then, in the office, we
have Fred and Gunn. Fred is struggling. She has to look up, like, so many words in
this book in another dictionary, so it’s taking her forever. She says…
[Clip from episode plays]
Fred: I mean, ask me to research stuff on wave-particle dualities or the
Schrodinger Equation and I'm a hellcat. But this? Angel is just gonna have to
realize that I’m just not as qualified for this as…some people.
Gunn: Yeah, well. Some people aren’t around anymore. So you’re just gonna
have to learn to get good at it.
Fred: What if I fail? What if I can’t find anything to help us?
Gunn: We’ll manage. Not saying I don’t prefer something I can punch,
something that doesn’t make that sick little squishy, crunchy noise when you
kill it. [squishy noise] But I think we can handle one little slug from hell.
Morgan: Yeah, maybe you guys could handle one little slug from hell. [laughs]
What—in my notes, I write, what about two, babe? What about three? [both laugh]
LaToya: But yeah, Fred is acknowledging what we’ve been saying all season—is
that yeah, she can research the science of this stuff. But like, she and Wes have
very different expertises. And like, Angel just sees “brainy one” and figures they
can do it all.
Morgan: Yeah. It’s very silly. It’s—like, I get it. And it’s like, Fred could learn. But
also, like, Wes went to school for this. She needs to call Giles now and start, like,
some kind of correspondence course with him. That is—
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: What is needed. And I would love that, would love long Giles/Fred phone
calls where he’s giving her homework.
LaToya: Yeah, like, Giles is like, “Willow’s not my daughter anymore. Fred’s my
new daughter.” [laughs]
Morgan: Hell yes! [both laugh] Willow, your daughter privileges are revoked. [both
laugh]


LaToya: But yeah, Fred asks, you know, “What if I fail?” And this is where I was
thinking, because I listened to Buffering episode Entropy, because I need to know
my enemy.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And Kristin and Jenny—
Morgan: I can’t stomach that. [both laugh]
LaToya: Kristin and Jenny and Ira, you know, they were talking about how Xander
still, like, lacks training after all of these years as a Slayerette. Whereas, like, I was
thinking how the Angel Investigations crew is a team of highly specialized, qualified
do-gooders. Like, even pre-visions, Cordelia was, like—her purpose was as Angel’s
connection to the outside human world.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And like, we even see, this season, Cordy seeking training from Angel to
get better, in a way Xander, and even Willow, never have. Like—
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: And it’s—the way Buffy plays it is that, you know, Xander’s humanity is his
strength or whatever. [Morgan snorts] But like, as opposed to someone like Anya,
who has plenty of expertise in this world. And they always—they never take her
seriously. They’re like, oh, Anya, shut up. [Morgan laughs] That’s what they’re like.
Morgan: How dare they?
LaToya: “Oh, Anya, you’re weird.” It’s like, well, yeah, she’s weird but she has
thousands of years of knowledge that you guys could probably use and never
actually try to use.
Morgan: Yeah, very silly to discount Anya. That’s my girl, so don’t.
LaToya: But also, like, in terms of replacing Wes for, like, the research and stuff
like that, knowledge of demon languages. Angel would actually be the better choice
for the job anyway. I know, like, he has to be the champion—
Morgan: Mmhmm.


LaToya: But he already has a leg-up on that stuff—
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: Just from being a vampire who’s lived for hundreds of years.
Morgan: I fully agree. And in talking about the idea that they’re all professionals,
really, at the top of their games and skills. It’s interesting that the idea is, like,
Gunn—when Fred is appealing to him and needs his emotional support—takes his
eye off the ball and misses the two slugs that show up. And it is interesting to think
about the idea that, like, being a good boyfriend and a good partner is at odds with
doing this job. It’s something that’s really sad, you know, I don’t want that for
Gunn and Fred. For, like, them to oftentimes have to be second to each other, to
this cause and this purpose. But I do think that’s not a mistake and not an accident.
Like, that is very purposeful. That, like, in helping her deal with this
problem—which, like, that’s another way that the vacuum that Wes has created is
affecting the group at large. Because you know, Fred can’t do this by herself and
needs emotional support and that’s valid. But by providing that for her, Gunn
misses something pretty big.
LaToya: The slugs come popping out of the sparky portal.
Morgan: Cool. Don’t you hate it when. [laughs]
LaToya: Which I mean, I guess does suggest, like, immediately, it’s a Quor’toth
thing because of the sparks. From—you know, from when Holtz pushed Justine and
ran with the baby.
Morgan: Remember when he pushed her? [both laugh] Didn’t have to push her.
LaToya: She could have come with. [both laughing]
Morgan: She arguably would have wanted to.
LaToya: “Daniel!”
Morgan: “Daniel!” [both laugh]
LaToya: It’s never not funny. Like, that scene itself is not funny, it’s horrifying.
Morgan: Yeah.


LaToya: But the Justine of it all.
Morgan: Like many things, Justine is not always working quite in tandem with the
purpose of every scene that she’s in. [both laugh] Sometimes she is a bit at odds.
But our next scene’s at Wolfram & Hart. We’re in Lilah’s office. She gets a
confidential email. I know it was a confidential email because across her screen, in
flashing letters, it says “confidential email.” [laughs]
LaToya: And how does she unlock this confidential email?
Morgan: Well, how would one unlock any confidential email? Naturally, she opens a
hidden door in the—like, behind her desk. She takes out a mini safe. She punches
in the combination. Then she takes out a wooden box that has intricate detailing on
it that is inside that small safe, opens it up to reveal a tarantula that then goes on
the little side keyboard. I guess she hit “num lock.” [both laughing] And puts in the
password.
LaToya: [laughing] Watching that, I was like, I guess she has number lock on.
She’s one of those people.
Kristin: Can we call it the tarantula keyboard from now on? [laughter] Can that
just be, like…
Morgan: Yes.
Kristin: What we call that piece of the keyboard? Okay. Thank you.
LaToya: [laughing] The tarantula keyboard.
Morgan: The tarantula keyboard.
Kristin: [simultaneously] The tarantula keyboard. Yeah, okay.
Morgan: Back when I was a cashier at Best Buy, I got really good on the tarantula
keyboard. [laughter] That was my high school job. And yeah, so the tarantula types
in the PIN. And in big red letters, in the email, is “thaumogenesis.” [both laugh]
Then Gavin comes in and he’s like, “Hey, you get that email?” And she’s like, “The
secret one that I had to get a spider to unlock? Yeah.”
LaToya: He might as well have just been like, “Yeah, I have a trojan on your
computer. Whatever.” [both laugh]


Morgan: And he’s like, “Yeah, so it’s like, the consequences of the spell that we
did.” Lilah gets on his case for—saying, “Why are you waxing my desk with your
ass?” I write, Gavin, does Wolfram & Hart have HR? Because you should go. [both
laugh]
LaToya: After every Gavin scene, he goes to HR. [laughs]
Morgan: Look, would I love Lilah to comment on my ass? Yes. But in the
workplace? I don’t know if that’s necessary. [laughs]
LaToya: Well, that is because you are the Wolfram & Hart lawyer that everyone
hates because you’re too nice.
Morgan: “Shut up, Morgan! Get your ass outta here.”
LaToya: You’re, like, the daughter of one of the senior partners and that’s the only
reason they don’t fire you.
Morgan: So what we’re pitching for me is that I’m Meg Stalter in Hacks, but for
Wolfram & Hart.
LaToya: Yes, you are Kayla.
Morgan: Yeah. And I’m like, “Girly! We’ve gotta make Angel happy!” [laughs]
LaToya: Watch Hacks on HBO Max.
Morgan: Please watch Hacks on HBO Max. [laughs] So Gavin points out, like, “I
don’t think the senior partners are, like, gonna be happy with you if Angel dies from
the fallout of a spell you helped him cast.”
LaToya: Oh, Gavin. And you know, Linwood’s on vacation and he’s unreachable.
Morgan: Mmhmm. Where is Linwood vacationing?
LaToya: Of course we have to think about this.
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: Hmm.
Morgan: I’m like, where does—


LaToya: Fiji.
Morgan: Fiji? Ooh. Yes. So our next scene’s in the Hyperion hallway. We’re with
Cordy and Groo. Groo brings up the whole, like, Angel being her priority thing. And
Cordy’s like, “Oh. Oh, he’s my work priority. You’re my other stuff priority.”
LaToya: Y’all just had an emotional bottle episode last week. [laughs]
Morgan: Great compliment, Cord. [both laugh] Like, honey. No, no, no, no, no. Not
a way to make your partner feel valued. Not good. Luckily, they’re interrupted by a
slug, or else, you know, things probably would have gotten even worse. And Groo’s
like, “Don’t move!” And she moves to try to save her own life, and he chastises her.
And she’s like, “Excuse the fuck outta me! Trying to not die.” [laughs]
LaToya: It’s interesting, the way it’s directed. ‘Cause, like, in the script—nothing is
changed from the script, really. But like, the way it’s directed, I feel like it kinda
rushes past the clear issue that they have. That it’s like, obviously there are red
flags. We’ve been talking about this.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: But I don’t think the episode itself lets it breathe, because, you know,
she’s like, “Well jeez, forgive me for saving my own life,” obviously. And then Groo
said, “I would not have let harm come to you,” like, as they’re going to the door.
And it’s very quick, when she says it. Like, the script—you can note it more. It’s
like, that’s not the—like, she’s about to say, like, “That’s not the point.” Like,
there’s about to be an argument about that fact right there.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Which is very quickly, in the episode, stopped by them running into Angel
and Lorne. But like, reading it on the page, you’re like, oh. The cracks are there.
Morgan: Yeah. I think I would like to see more of that and more of, like—more of
Cordelia struggling with why she wants this so bad, even though there are clearly
problems with it. And I mean—
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: It’s assuming it’s because he’s a very loyal puppy dog that can go all
night. But it—you know, I wonder why she—I mean, we’ve talked a lot about why


we think she’s, like, choosing this kind of safer, less complicated thing that’s wrong
for her. Because Angel—being with Angel’s way too scary. [laughs]
LaToya: Mmhmm. And it’s like, especially reading the script, you can see that the
moment is—it’s Cordy clearly wanting to be her own champion, versus Groo not
quite understanding why she doesn’t want him to be her champion.
Morgan: Mmhmm. Yeah, he just—like, yeah, to him, it’s an act of service and an
act of love to save her. And for her, it’s like, no, I need you to, instead, respect me
and empower me to do my own thing. Which is what Angel did, teaching her how to
fight.
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: So then, the whole gang meets up and they’re all like, “We saw it.” And
they’re like, “How did you see it? We saw it.” So then, in the lobby, they’re all
together. They realize that there is more than one. And because they glow in the
dark, the plan is to turn all the lights off. [both laugh] Good god.
LaToya: I think they might as well just burn down the Hyperion. [both laugh]
Morgan: So Fred has to lock herself in the office with books and a lantern.
LaToya: This is where I was like, I bet she wishes she went back home to Texas
now. [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah. And Angel and Gunn are gonna go shut off the power. So they go
down to the basement. It’s so funny how cowardly they all are, where they’re all
hanging out—
LaToya: I mean—
Morgan: On the stairs while Gunn goes and shuts off the lights. [laughs]
LaToya: Well, it’s very—’cause Gunn is just, like, terrified this whole episode. It’s
so funny ‘cause Angel’s like, “Yeah, you’re gonna go turn off the power.” So you
think it’s just gonna be Gunn alone. But no, they have to—if Gunn’s doing this, they
have to all go with him. [both laugh]
Morgan: Such a—a little Scooby Doo energy. They’re such goofs. I love them so
much. I know we’ve just spent all this time saying they’re professionals at the top
of their field. [LaToya laughs] But all of them are huddled together on the stairs,


being like, “Gunn, will you hit the light switch?” [both laugh] Meanwhile, Gunn’s
like, turning off the lights and running like he’s me turning off my bedroom light
when I was seven years old. And scared of the dark.
LaToya: Aww! Little Morgan.
Morgan: Yeah, she was small. So yeah, this is so silly. In the office, Fred is alone
and working. And of course, one of the glass slugs is on the wall. And it hops in her
mouth.
LaToya: No thank you. And immediately, because the lights are off, the slug’s
effects look so much worse now. [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah, they’re just kinda, like, blue and—yeah, they just look like little
blue lobsters. I don’t—it’s not scary. So then—
LaToya: It’s…this episode rules for the fact that we get more of the Hyperion,
which is huge.
Morgan: I love that.
LaToya: I know the kitchen, at least, was at the Ambassador Hotel before it was
demolished. But I don’t know if, like—I don’t know where exactly they shoot, like,
you know, all the extra rooms and hallways that—
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: ‘Cause they do that a lot. I don’t think those are sets.
Morgan: It always looks really cool and helps add dimension too. I think they do
show it the right amount that you believe it’s there. It doesn’t—you don’t feel
trapped on the sets that are clearly on their stages, which I think is smart and
good. So they go to the south wing hall, which is usually shut up.
LaToya: They have a damn south wing.
Morgan: And there’s a bunch of screeching bird sounds that I guess the slugs are
making. So they’re behind this one door, and they’re approaching that. Then, in the
office, Gunn checks in on Fred. And Fred says she’s scared. [whimpers]
LaToya: Oh wait, sorry. I wanna go back real quick to the door. ‘Cause we didn’t
talk about Angel kicking down the door—


Morgan: Oh, yeah.
LaToya: Which is something we know he loves, as the commercials for TNT’s
Primetime in the Daytime would always remind us. And the little eyebrow wiggle he
gives Cordelia after doing that [Morgan laughs] is hot.
Morgan: God. Look, it’s not all bad. Yeah, he really does need this case to take his
mind off things so he can have a little fun. [both laugh] So I’m glad he got to kick
down that door. Good for you, buddy. Yeah, so then in the office, Gunn checks in
on Fred. Fred says she’s scared. And Gunn tries to comfort her. And he says, “After
all of this is over, I think we should take a vacation, like Groo and Cordy got to do.
Like, we should go to Baha.”
LaToya: Aww.
Morgan: I want that for them. But unfortunately, the vibes are immediately fucked
because Fred drinks the snow globe. [both laugh]
LaToya: Yeah, she’s like, “We have to get out of here,” and he’s like, “Yeah, that’s
what I’m saying.” And then she breaks the snow globe with her hands.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And does a slurp. And she’s like, “We’re thirsty.” And I love, actually, the
touch of the blood on her lip—
Morgan: Yes!
LaToya: From, like, drinking out of shattered glass.
Morgan: Yeah, that she, like, doesn’t care if she causes herself pain, the, like,
compulsion to drink is so strong. Our next scene—so I guess the door that Angel
broke down led to this big, abandoned ballroom? Which looks awesome. And you
know who thinks that? Lorne. [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah, and don’t give Lorne shit for thinking it’s cool. He has no bar
because of you people! [both laughing] Multiple times!
Morgan: Terrible. Like, fully like Sweet D and her car with the gang in It’s Always
Sunny. [LaToya laughs] That’s the amount of times his bar has been destroyed and


nobody has set a precedent for trying to help or fix it. They helped one time, and
they were like, “You get our help once.” No!
LaToya: There is a real “shut up, bird” energy to this moment. [both laugh]
Morgan: Truly. So Gunn brings in Fred and says she needs help because, you
know, there’s a slug in her. And Fred talks to Angel, and she has to work very, very
hard to speak for herself. And she says, “We can’t let it spread. It’ll—like, it’ll go out
there and it’ll kill.”
LaToya: And she notes, “Oh, it really doesn’t like you.” [both laugh]
Morgan: Angel’s like, “Okay, well, it’s mutual. Like, whatever.”
LaToya: This is like being—like, Sahjhan being like, “Angel’s my arch nemesis.”
Like, what the fuck? [laughs] I didn’t do anything.
Morgan: [simultaneously] Angel’s like, I’m a nice guy. [both laugh] I’m different
now. So Gunn is like, cool, let's take her to a hospital. Because we don’t—and I
appreciate that he’s not just like, “Because I’m not listening.” He’s like, “We don’t
know if that’s the slug talking. Like, we can’t trust whatever she says. I just know
that I have to save her.” Good. Smart. Angel tries to stop Gunn and tells him…
[Clip from episode plays]
Angel: How is she gonna feel if taking her out of here causes more people to
die?
Gunn: She or you?
Angel: Me?
Gunn: All this is happening ‘cause of you. What you did, this is your fault.
Messing with scary-ass mojo no sane person should be messing with.
Angel: I did what I had to do.
Gunn: You do what you want to get what you want. The hell with the
consequences.
Angel: My son—


Gunn: Is dead. Fred’s not.
Morgan: Oooooh!
LaToya: That was way harsh, Ty.
Morgan: [sighs] But I mean, to be fair. Angel is a virgin who can’t drive. [both
laugh]
LaToya: Angel’s like, “I’m not a virgin!”
Morgan: True. But yeah, this is brutal. I mean, we’ve just spent last episode
establishing how much Gunn cares for Fred and how important she is to him. And
it, you know, is held up here. He does not give a shit. It’s about saving her and it’s
not about—like, fuck Angel’s feelings. In terms of me—like, I’m like, yeah, let’s
save Fred. I love her. [laughs] This is accurate.
LaToya: But hey, Groo has found out where the sound’s coming from. And good
news, they have a pool.
Morgan: [giggles] Secret pool underneath the ballroom. What Lorne would have
done with the pool under the ball—to make this a club. Like, a clear floor with a
swimming pool under it. Like…that would have ruled. [laughs]
LaToya: The slugs. The slugs are just chilling in the pool.
Morgan: Yeah, there’s a bunch of them. They’re all blue and wriggly and I was like,
ahh—
LaToya: It’s disgusting.
Morgan: [simultaneously] That’s weird. They run to the kitchen, so like, the big
industrial sized kitchen where they, you know, would make room service, were this
a normal hotel. Fred is like, “I’m too hot, I’m too hot” from all the running. So
Angel’s like, “Let’s turn the ovens on. Let’s, you know, like, burn up all the water in
the air, get them dehydrated and make sure they won’t come in here.” And then
Fred screams out loud. You think it’s because of the pain of the heat, but it’s
because Gunn’s gone.
LaToya: It does make me think, though, considering what the solution is. The oven
thing should work?


Morgan: Yeah. I mean, I think it—but I guess it doesn’t kill them. It just, like,
weakens them.
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: So then, at Wolfram & Hart, in Lilah’s office, she’s on the phone giving the
orders to the clean-up crew about what to do. Gavin strolls in, quite pleased with
himself. And he’s like, “Yeah, I went behind your back and I told Linwood about
everything. He’s real pissed.” And—
LaToya: Yeah, ‘cause he has Linwood’s emergency cell phone number. Lilah
doesn’t have that.
Morgan: Boys’ club.
LaToya: Boys’ club. Lilah’s like, “Fine, play your little games. I’ve gotta go save my
immortal enemy.” And I couldn’t help but thinking that, like, by that point, Lindsay
would have punched Gavin in the face. [Morgan laughs] Gavin deserves to be
punched in the face in this scene.
Morgan: Truly, he does. He’s such a little piss baby. He’s like, “Do you really—like,
I talked to Linwood and, like, he actually wants all of Team Angel to die.” And I’m
like, can we trust you, you little bitch?
LaToya: Yeah, I’m like—I’m trying to figure out what Wolfram & Hart is thinking.
‘Cause we know the senior partners, they want Angel alive. That’s, like—that’s
definitive.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Like, they don’t give a shit what Lilah does, as long as she keeps Angel
alive.
Morgan: Yeah. And they don’t care that he hurt Linwood.
LaToya: Yeah. If Linwood’s saying let him die, like, that makes Linwood
expendable.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Like, fuck your feelings, Linwood. [laughs]


Morgan: Absolutely. Enjoy Fiji.
LaToya: [simultaneously] You know we love you, but like, yeah. Stay in Fiji, ‘cause
nothing good’s gonna come back. Like, if you’re saying, “Yeah, let him die,” yeah,
you better stay in Fiji.
Morgan: So to me, I’m like, I don’t even know if I believe that Linwood is—like,
that’s—that seems like such a poor move on his part. I’m like, is Gavin lying here?
Like, there’s no reason for Lilah to necessarily trust him. So, like, Gavin says that
Lilah’s gonna have to pay for the—like, the ops team out of her own salary,
according to Linwood. And I’m like, well, that’s just ridiculous.
LaToya: Again, I don’t think the senior partners—like, the senior partners are like,
“Yeah, save Angel.” Do…someone punch Gavin in the face.
Morgan: Yeah. Look, you’re hot but your scheme sucks, dude. [both laugh]
LaToya: Yeah. If you’re not gonna fuck Lilah, then you need to be punched in the
face.
Morgan: Absolutely. Stop waxing the desk with your ass and get outta here! [both
laugh] So we have a quick moment at the door to Wes’s apartment. Gunn is
banging on it. Wes opens it. And Gunn says, “I need your help.” Ooh. Then, in the
kitchen, Fred is chugging water. Groo says there are too many slugs for them to
fight. Angel takes Fred’s water and, like, pours it out on the floor to fuck with her.
[laughs]
LaToya: Yeah. And then the dutch angles start a-poppin’. I wrote, okay, Alfred
Hitchcock, go off. [both laugh] And that’s where I was like, this episode, I wish, did
go more full tilt horror. And it’s just like, for whatever reason, it doesn’t.
Morgan: Yeah, it’s just not quite there.
LaToya: It does seem like maybe network notes and maybe that’s why they added
the Lilah/Gavin stuff.
Morgan: Yeah, maybe they were like, what are—was everyone else doing about
this? Like, this feels too isolated, maybe?
LaToya: Maybe there’s a cut where the direction is—like, it’s so fucking creepy and
The WB was like, we can’t air this. Especially not after 7th Heaven.


Morgan: We can’t air this. We already scared LaToya so much. It wouldn’t be right.
[both laugh] So he’s like, “I wanna talk to the slug. I wanna know what it is.” And
so Fred, as the slug, says, “We’re thirsty. We want to live, to drink, to be merry, to
get out, to flee. It brings pain.” [laughs] So she talks about this bringer of torment.
Someone called The Destroyer? Who’s coming after Angel? Doesn’t sound so good.
Do you think that sounds good, LaToya?
LaToya: It does not. [Morgan giggles] Cordelia says, “That’s not the name you
wanna hear.” And I agree.
Morgan: You hate to see it, says Cordy.
LaToya: The only destroyer I wanna hear about is Nicole Kidman.
Morgan: [laughs] So then in Wes’s apartment, Gunn explains what’s going on.
Wes…is looking…good. [both laugh]
LaToya: Oh, are we gonna talk about it?
Morgan: We’re gonna talk about it. The beard, the rasp—I have written in my
notes, bullet points, beard. Raspy voice. Call me. [laughs]
LaToya: The form-fitting shirt.
Morgan: Hoo!
LaToya: To quote WWE Hall of Famer, Booker T, you lookin’ real jacked, baby.
Morgan: Yeah. Yeah. He’s looking good.
LaToya: And something about Wes at his lowest, we’re like, yes. This is what we
like.
Kristin: I just wanna know why the neck scar isn’t on your bulleted list. Is that
weird? But that also does it for me.
LaToya: [simultaneously] The neck scar is actually part of it.
Morgan: [simultaneously] Oh, oh. The scar is later—down, on my notes. [laughter]
It’s here in the all caps section, Kristin.


Kristin: Okay, okay. Okay, great. I’m so sorry. Okay. I should—I should have
known.
Morgan: [laughing] Of course—
Kristin: Professionals, top of your game. [laughter]
Morgan: Much like Team Angel. [laughter] But we’re also scared of the dark, much
like Team Angel. So Wes—
LaToya: Yes, literally, I do write, Wes looks so hot, neck scar and all. [laughs]
Morgan: Unreal. Wes is like, “Why would you come to me? Like, Angel will figure it
out eventually.” Which is true. I bet he would figure it out, eventually. But there’s
not time for that shit! [laughs]
LaToya: Well, no, he says, “Find a way to kill them eventually.” And that’s not
what Gunn wants.
Morgan: Mmhmm. So Wes is like, “I don’t know, like, get out of my house.” And
Gunn’s like, “It’s Fred.” Then Wes looks to the side dramatically, and we get the
long shot of the neck scar. Which looks so gnarly. And hot. I could not live. Like…
how dare they? How dare they make him so sad to be this hot? It’s not fair to me. I
don’t wanna be sad. But he’s so hot! God!
LaToya: It is a real “I can change him” situation. [laughs]
Morgan: And I do believe that I can. [both laugh] Oh my god. So, Wes—you know,
listening to him, goes and, like, grabs a bottle. And Gunn is like, what the fuck? He
says…
[Clip from episode plays]
Gunn: What, we’re gonna have a drink now? Did you hear what I said? She’s
dying!
Wesley: I was dying. Throat cut, life pouring out of me. Know why I fought
to live again?
Gunn: Wes, I don’t have time.


Wesley: I wanted to live to see my friends again, to explain to the people I
loved and trusted my side of what happened.
Gunn: We know what—
Wesley: You don’t know anything. I’ll help because it’s Fred, but don’t come
here again. Any of you.
LaToya: Yeah, ‘cause watching the scene, I’m like, okay. So is Wes feeling sorry
for himself, since the last he tried to help—
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: He failed spectacularly? Or is he just being an ass because Gunn and his
friends haven’t, you know, stuck up for him or checked on him? And I was hoping it
was the former. It’s basically the latter. And the thing is, he’s very hot in this
scene, but he’s also a little bitch in this scene.
Morgan: Absolutely. But it’s just like, I don’t know. Like, how else is he supposed
to feel? Like, I mean, I know he should, like, take responsibility for what he did.
Which, like, I think he would if given the opportunity. Like, it’s not like we
haven’t—he’s had an abundance of chances to talk to these people and make
amends. But he’s just like, I just wanted a chance to say my piece. Like, you’ve all
known me for long enough that I should have been able to at least explain myself
to one of you. And I’m like, I can—yeah.
LaToya: But we were saying, you should have told one of them in the process.
Morgan: 100%.
LaToya: You should have called Cordelia. Like—
Morgan: 100%. I’ll say, our—
LaToya: He shut them out first, unfortunately.
Morgan: Oh, yeah. Our social media, in terms of, like, people in our Facebook
group and people on Twitter, have been talking about, like, being really mad at Wes
this season. Which I think is really valid. I think they do a good job at showing us
all of the forces working—like, at work, keeping him from, you know, saying the
right thing. Some intentional, from Wolfram & Hart, some from Sahjhan, and
some—like, just out of the whole, like, Fred/Gunn love triangle. Like, a lot of—and


Cordelia’s absence. All of these things were working to make what happened
happen. And I still think there’s no excuse for him not calling Cordelia. Like, we
talked about the drawbacks being, like, she could have just told Angel and then it
would have been moot. But she was probably—but like, if she told Angel and it was
moot, it would probably be the right thing to do. And, like, Wes should not have
been alone with this. And there is a certain amount of ego in that, you know? Like,
not allowing anyone else on the inside of your decision.
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: Like, a certain amount of that—like, some of it is like, “I don’t wanna
burden anyone with this,” broody boy—
LaToya: Like—
Morgan: But some of it is like, “because I’m the decider—”
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: “And I must make the right decision, because I’m burdened with glorious
purpose” or whatever. And that’s bullshit.
LaToya: Yeah, we say Fred should call Giles. Wesley should have called Giles.
Morgan: Wesley should have called Giles, so hard. Giles would have been great to
talk to about this. He would have totally understood, because—
LaToya: “Wait, Angel has a child?” [both laugh]
Morgan: “Yeah, wait. [both laughing] Who’s Gunn? Who’s Fred?”
LaToya: Giles comes back to the States, but it’s for Angel Investigations and not
Buffy. [laughs]
Morgan: So cute. Comes back for a fellow Watcher in need.
LaToya: And then Buffy comes to LA to be a bitch.
Morgan: Comes to grab her dad and take him home. [both laugh] “You can’t have
him!”
LaToya: This is what Ira was talking about.


Morgan: This is—
LaToya: Ira was right!
Morgan: Ira, you were right. Where the fuck am I in this scene? I’m so stupid.
LaToya: He sent Gunn away and gave him the vodka.
Morgan: Yeah, so he sends—
LaToya: “But don’t come here again, any of you.” Little bitch.
Morgan: Oh, “I wanna be alone! This is my choice, actually.” [both laugh] Back in
the kitchen at the Hyperion, Fred’s skin is starting to crack, which means she’s
gonna disintegrate soon. And we don’t like that. So Angel breaks and he’s like, fuck
it, we’re taking her to a hospital. They can keep her hydrated there. And I’ll distract
the slugs. Cordy doesn’t wanna leave him, though. So as they’re all running out,
Groo carrying Fred, Cordy runs back and stays with Angel. And Groo looks after her
and watches her do this, and it’s just like…you can’t lie to yourself anymore. You
know? She picked him, and it’s always going to be him.
LaToya: Oof.
Morgan: Groo deserves the love of a good woman. He’s a sweetheart. He’s
compassionate and he’s attentive. And it seems like he’s a good listener. It’s just—
LaToya: Ooh, you know who Groo should be with?
Morgan: Ooh.
LaToya: Anya.
Morgan: Oh my god. Yeah. That’s perfect. That’s so good. Okay. Buddy, Sunnydale
is—what? Like a—do we believe it’s a four hour drive? It’s an indeterminate length
away from Los Angeles. [LaToya laughs] But you can get there. I don’t think Groo
can drive, but he can take a bus.
LaToya: [laughing] He can figure it out.
Morgan: Figure it out, babe! It’ll be worth it. She’s so hot. [laughs]


LaToya: And it will really piss off Xander and that’s good. And also, you don’t really
have to worry too much about shades of gray with demons there. Just kill ‘em!
Morgan: Mmm. Yeah, done. So then, in the lobby, Gunn sees Groo carrying Fred
and he says, “Put my girl down.” And I’m like, aww. He feeds Fred, like, the booze.
She drinks it, she spits it up at first. But, like, he keeps putting the bottle to her
lips. Down in the kitchen, Cordy catches a slug in her hand and can, like, hold onto
it? Interesting. Then in the lobby, Fred drinks more and then she pukes the slug.
And Groo kills it. Hell yeah.
LaToya: Yay.
Morgan: Dream team. Then in the kitchen, like, we’re just watching Cordy hold the
slug and we’re like, what the fuck is this? And she begins to glow.
LaToya: Yeah, and just to note that I was not misremembering when I brought up
the whole Saint Cordelia thing in Double or Nothing. On TV Tropes for this episode,
it even says “the miracle of Saint Cordy.”
Morgan: Oh, wow.
LaToya: Yeah. That was a thing people were criticizing about the show at the time.
Morgan: Oh. That’s—I don’t know. I feel like it’s at cost to her, you know. She had
to make a bad choice. So yeah, she then emits this big, huge burst of light that
even, like, affects everybody up in the lobby. Angel and Cordy come in and Angel’s
like, “Cordy did it!” Aww, he’s proud! Fred goes to sleep on the couch. I’m
devastated I didn’t get Fred who’s drunk an entire bottle of vodka scene. [both
laugh] I was robbed.
LaToya: She is tiny, she would just be passed out.
Morgan: She would be—she’d be so silly, though. [both laugh] Gunn and Angel talk
around Wes again, as Gunn kind of explains what he did.
LaToya: Well. Angel doesn’t say anything. [laughs]
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Gunn has the whole conversation to finally realize what Angel’s point was.


Morgan: Yeah, and there’s, like, a moment in this where it’s like, “I guess this
makes us even. Like, we both did a reckless thing, or whatever, when someone we
love was at risk.” And I’m like, going to Wes is very different than making Sahjhan
corporeal. But okay. [both laugh]
LaToya: I mean, I suppose he could have accidentally let out one of the slugs. That
is—would have been possible.
Morgan: Yeah. I guess, but still. I’m like, not quite equivalent. [both laugh] But—
LaToya: These are equal!
Morgan: Lorne is like, “Hey, what about that Destroyer guy they were talking
about?” Fair. Fred is like, “Yeah, he should be here…now?”
LaToya: So we were talking about CGI for the slugs.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: But here’s some real CGI, baby—
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: With this demon fake-out.
Morgan: What’d you think of the—this big Men in Black-ass-looking creature?
LaToya: It really does look like it should be in the Men in Black music video.
Morgan: Mmhmm. Yes, it looks exactly as good as the effects would have been in
the Men in Black music video, not the movie. [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: But it’s not the only thing that’s shown up.
LaToya: Well, it looks like a PS2 visual. But it—it doesn’t have to be good. It just
has to be quick.
Morgan: Mmhmm. And it is. Its head is cut off, essentially immediately, by
whomst? Television’s Vincent Kartheiser? What’s he doing here?


LaToya: Wrote in my notes, Legends of Zelda ass! [both laugh] As we know, Zelda
is the boy.
Morgan: Mmhmm. I write in my notes, portal, monster, Vincent Kartheiser with a
wrist rocket? [both laugh] And he points it right at Angel, and he says, “Hi, Dad.”
[pause]
LaToya: What?!
Morgan: Excuse me? [laughs] Time for Fuck Watch, right?
LaToya: [laughs] It is. It is time for Fuck Watch.
Morgan: Horrible. [both laugh]
[FUCK WATCH jingle plays]
Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing
Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing
Fuck Watch!
Morgan: Hey, LaToya, are you fucking television’s Vincent Kartheiser, ‘cause he’s
sooo sexy in this ep?
LaToya: Never in my entire life am I fucking TV’s Vincent Kartheiser! [laughs] I’m
sorry, TV’s Vincent Kartheiser, but no. The answer is, in all caps in my notes,
Wesley. Yes, I chose alt-world Wesley in Birthday, but that was alt-world Wesley.
This is different.
Morgan: Fair, fair. He is quite hot.
LaToya: Yes, as I keep calling him a little bitch in my notes. I still, at the end, am
like, he’s very hot.
Morgan: Yeah. No, you’ve made a beautiful and smart choice. And I deeply respect
it. Meanwhile, I have chosen to fuck Groo. ‘Cause he needs it. He’s—
LaToya: I thought you were about to say TV’s Vincent Kartheiser—
Morgan: Oh my god!
LaToya: [laughing] And I was like, what the fuck?


Morgan: Never! I was just like, he—like, I just—I wanna take care of him and
make sure that he’s okay. ‘Cause he’s going through it right now, so I’ll give him
attention.
LaToya: Yeah, ‘cause you’ve chosen Groo with the hair. And now this is
post-haircut.
Morgan: [simultaneously] No, I didn’t. I skipped it.
LaToya: You didn’t choose it?
Morgan: I—this is my first Groo pick. I have conserved.
LaToya: Oh, yeah! ‘Cause you skipped it like a fool.
Morgan: Mmhmm. I was like—I had to pick someone else at certain—I can’t
remember who it was, but I had to. So yeah, now—I saved my Groo for now. And
now, when he needs me most, I’m here. [laughs]
LaToya: Saving all my love for Groo.
Morgan: Mmhmm. [laughs]
[FUCK WATCH jingle plays]
Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing
Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing
Fuck Watch!
LaToya: So should we talk about…television’s Vincent Kartheiser, who gets the
guest starring credit at the end—
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: For a little surprise.
Morgan: What would you like to talk about? [both laugh]
LaToya: Well, I think it’s very clear from the way the episode ended, he is Connor.
He is Connor Angel.


Morgan: Connor Angel. I’ve heard of him. But LaToya, that doesn’t make sense.
He’s a baby?
LaToya: Morgan, have you not heard about the way time moves in hell
dimensions? It’s not like these shows have talked about it many, many times.
Morgan: No, I can’t remember.
LaToya: Ahh.
Morgan: Yeah. Seems like he aged in the hell dimension, and then less time
passed in our dimension.
LaToya: Yeah. And now we can talk about what I always talk about, which is the
casting of Vincent Kartheiser as Connor Angel.
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: This is not a criticism on his acting, ‘cause you know, Morgan and I, we
love Mad Men.
Morgan: I—
LaToya: We can quote Pete Campbell all day, every day.
Morgan: “The king ordered it.” [both laugh]
LaToya: This is something, especially knowing we’d be leading to this—
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: I’ve been going through, of course, you know, my rolodex of The WB
stable of boys—
Morgan: Oh, yeah.
LaToya: Because you have to imagine—’cause as much as I’ve looked around on
the internet, I have no idea who was auditioning for the role.
Morgan: Mmhmm.


LaToya: I can imagine who was auditioning for the role, because of the stable of
boys. And I think who I landed on would be—I think the most understandable
casting of the stable?—was Matt Czuchry.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Of course, Gilmore Girls’ Logan Huntzberger himself.
Morgan: I love that.
LaToya: So I’m thinking, who would make sense? ‘Cause you’re casting someone
who’s supposed to be the child of David Boreanaz and Julie Benz.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And I think, like, just—Vincent Kartheiser makes no sense to me. [laughs]
In that casting?
Morgan: Yeah, he doesn’t look like them. Which, you know, we fudge stuff
sometimes. Yeah, I don’t see it. And also, it’s just like, he’s a very specific actor,
who is really good and can be utilized really well. He’s a tough energy to bring in
as, like, a side dish, to something already established. I feel like Vincent Kartheiser
is best when baked into the whole thing.
LaToya: So he can let you know that California bagels are terrible.
Morgan: They’re terrible. It’s a chip and dip.
LaToya: [laughs] If anyone, honestly—this is, like, asking call sheet stuff. But if
anyone knows of any actors who auditioned for the role of Connor, please let us
know. Because that’s something I’ve always wanted to know.
Morgan: Yeah, absolutely. Do you have anyone else from The WB stable of boys
you think—
LaToya: It’s like—
Morgan: Probably would have been in consideration as well?
LaToya: I’m assuming the Chad would have been, like, talked to about the role.
Morgan: Mmhmm.


LaToya: Chad Michael Murray [both laughing] as Connor Angel would have been
hilarious.
Morgan: Good lord. [laughs] But I don’t know. I mean, it’s a pretty—as, like,
episode ending cliffhangers go, it’s pretty wild.
LaToya: Yeah. And I think the episode both sets it up and also, it’s like—it’s a good
surprise. It’s a good surprise to have at the end.
Morgan: Yeah, it’s the idea—it’s like, okay, we’re gonna try to put this behind us.
And ultimately, the end is, no. You can’t. It is impossible to put this behind you. Not
just because of, like, the trauma that is going to live with you forever of losing your
son, but because now he’s back. [laughs] Classic Buffyverse, classic rug being
pulled.
LaToya: Also—[laughs] this is gonna be anticlimactic, but as for WB episodes Angel
should watch, I’ve already just said, like, Superstar and Amends. And After Life is
UPN. I was thinking, does Angel know who Jonathan is? Because here’s the thing.
He showed up at prom. Angel did. So there’s that. And I mean, he—I’m sure Buffy
told him about the events—like, he was in Earshot—
Morgan: Yeah, Earshot. Yeah.
LaToya: About how she saved this kid from trying to kill himself. I’m sure she told
Angel that, but like, I don’t think he knows who Jonathan is. I don’t think he could
pick him out of a lineup.
Morgan: No. Like, given what we know about his ability to discern things going on
on the outskirts of things. And yes, I am referring to the “wait, let me get this
straight, you and Gunn are dating?” Like, this guy’s not picking up on subtext. This
guy’s not seeing stuff going on the margins. So yeah, he does not know who
Jonathan is.
LaToya: And that’s really funny to me.
Morgan: I like that. Yeah. Have fun watching Su—and I think he’d really enjoy
watching Xander be a simp for Jonathan. [both laugh]
LaToya: We always know how to end it, don’t we?
Morgan: Hell yeah we do. Watch the frog.


[DUBBA-DUBBA-WB jingle plays]
Angel is a vampire
Does he even like TV?
"I think he'll like The WB."
They got that hot teen drama
To ease the pain and trauma
And here's the episode that he
Needs to see (aw yeah!)
LaToya: Say plugs, Morgan. That’s your job.
Morgan: Hey. If you would like to follow us on social media, you can follow us on
Twitter and Instagram, @AngelOnTopCast. If you go to angelontop.com, you’ll be
directed to our Patreon. And that is all for us. If you’d like to find me anywhere on
social media, you can follow me @LorganMutich on whatever platform you like. If I
have it, that’ll be my username. LaToya, where can the people find you, and should
they?
LaToya: They should not. Ever. They keep doing it. I don’t know why.
Morgan: Yeah, please…yeah. Twitter responsibly. [laughs]
LaToya: Please.
Morgan: We’re begging you. [both laugh] And that is all for us, over here at the
Hyperion.
LaToya: It’s a chip and dip! [Morgan snorts]

