Angel On Top
Episode 3.12: Provider
[CHIME]
LaToya: Welcome back to Angel On Top, a podcast where we watch and discuss
every episode of Angel, one by one, spoiler free and in tandem with our arch
nemesis, Buffering the Vampire Slayer. I’m your co-host, LaToya Ferguson, AKA the
Cordelia Chase of the Buffering verse, AKA Bones, AKA one half of the Gunn
Squad—bang, bang!—AKA Theodore K. Mullins, AKA Gilly, AKA lover of long winded
bits, AKA 30% that bitch.
Morgan: And I'm your other co-host, Morgan Lutich, AKA the Winifred Burkle of the
Buffering verse, AKA also Bones, AKA the other half of the Gunn Squad—bang,
bang—AKA Frank Scabopolis, AKA sorry, AKA also a lover of long winded bits, AKA
barely that bitch. [laughs]
LaToya: And this week, we are watching Angel Season 3, Episode 12, Provider.
Provider was written by Scott Murphy and directed by Bill Norton. It aired on The
WB on January 21st, 2002.
Morgan: And this is the one where Angel…is in danger of losing sight of the mission
when he becomes a money monster, trying to raise money for little Connor’s
college fund.
[Angel On Top theme plays]
LaToya: [dramatically] Previously on Angel. Angel’s son is part of the prophecy!
Nyazian scrolls! “This baby will never be born.” Whoops, it’s born because Darla
sacrificed herself. Angel is this baby’s only family. Everything and everyone is
coming for this baby! Those visions are killing Cordy. Whup, not anymore, she’s a
demon! She’s levitating! Oh yeah, Holtz and Justine, they’re here also like a weird
Buffy and Giles thing. But bad and not just weird, because they are bad. Oh! Hero
walk with the baby.
Morgan: Love it.
LaToya: Thank you. I hope you guys enjoy my description of the P’s, since again,
they are not on Hulu. Someone has to do it.
Morgan: Shall we get into talking about Provider? What a fun little ep!


LaToya: Fun ep. Written by the same writer of Carpe Noctem, by the way.
Morgan: Oh my god! Again, as I’ve said before and I will likely say again, an
episode near and dear to my heart.
LaToya: So we got Angel, as you say, being a little money monster, you know.
Morgan: Mmhmm!
LaToya: Everyone’s favorite reference for a movie they did not see.
Morgan: I believe that no one saw Money Monster. If you went to the theater and
you bought a ticket to Money Monster, they were like, alright, you got us. We didn’t
make a movie. This is a trailer. Like, I fully believe that. [laughs]
LaToya: But yeah. The idea of Angel having to worry about money and you know,
doing things to get it. That is a new facet, ‘cause you know, we talk a lot about just
vampires on television and film, and how they get their money. Mostly you would
think it’s, like, a combination of nefarious means and generational wealth, you
know. But Angel…he hasn’t been nefarious for a while. He has no generational
wealth really to speak of. And you know, he has a job, but like, this is the first time
[both laugh] all season, there’s been a case.
Morgan: And I also think, like, the fact that Connor is a human child means that,
like, he will legally have to be a human with a birth certificate and, like, documents
and all that kind of thing. Which means that Angel will have to, for sure, have all of
that kind of stuff to provide for his son and be his son’s, like, quote-unquote “legal
guardian.” Especially with Wolfram & Hart around—Wolfram & Hart around being
dicks. And I don’t know, I do like the idea of talking about money. I know we’ve
talked about, like, all of Angel’s various homes that he’s lived in. And so, I can buy
that maybe he didn’t have to pay rent when he was living in the abandoned
mansion in Sunnydale. [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah, like—
Morgan: But now, he has expenses.
LaToya: I imagine, for his original apartment in Sunnydale, he probably did
someone a favor and that was how he got that. ‘Cause I don’t think it was, like,
really an apartment. I think it was, like, an abandoned—some kind of factory or
something that he turned that room into an apartment. [laughs]


Morgan: It truly seemed like a boiler room he put a mattress in.
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: What a beautiful place to lose your virginity, if you’re Buffy. [laughs]
LaToya: He had nice art.
Morgan: It seemed really cozy. Like, he’d made it as nice as it could be.
LaToya: His apartment in Season 1, it was like, under his office space. So he had
to have paid for that or again, he could have done a favor. We just don’t know
about all that.
Morgan: Yeah, or he was just like, again, squatting in a boiler room. Like, again, I
keep being like, what is…yeah, I don’t know what his financial deal is. But now, like,
David set up all of the stuff with the Hyperion. They are seeming to, like, actually
pay for it and finance it, which means that the business has to make money. But
now on top of that, gotta pay for Notre Dame, which is very much having his heart
set on, Angel.
LaToya: And you know how expensive those newfangled diapers are.
Morgan: [laughs] Yeah, the ones without the pins. [both laugh]
LaToya: But yeah, we open with the cutest ceramic piggy bank in the entire world,
to go with the cutest baby in the world, honestly. That Connor baby. Cute.
Morgan: That baby’s so cute. And I’m so obsessed with Angel putting a piggy bank
in a safe. Like, the—[laughs] the security at the Hyperion is top notch. [laughs]
LaToya: I am obsessed with Angel truly being—living up to Old Man Angel and
going through the couch cushions in the lobby to find a dollar and 83 cents.
[laughs]
Morgan: And while Angel is running around, you know, grabbing loose change,
Fred is building the Angel Investigations website, which she is about to publish.
Angel is urging her to make that font bigger and bigger and bigger. Especially the
part of it that says “no case too small.” [both laugh]


LaToya: Because Angel is an old man. He’s also a parent. Angel is possibly my
mother. “Make the font bigger!” [laughs] I have done many a website for my
mother where she’s always like, “make the font bigger.” You know?
Morgan: Meanwhile, Cordy is baby-talking to little Connor, because Cordy’s
actually holding Connor. Like, we see some progression there. Like, Angel is
allowing everyone else to very comfortably be a part of the baby’s life, which yay, A
plus, I like. Angel refers to himself as “papa” and says, “Papa’s got mouths to feed.”
[laughs]
LaToya: David Boreanaz being cute with a baby. I wish I knew how to quit this
man, I gotta say.
Morgan: Yeah, I mean, same. Yeah, he is—again, as you have said many times, he
is looking good this year. And the baby is adding to…the very powerful thing that’s
going on. [laughs]
LaToya: What if we just don’t talk about the episode and just talk about how
attractive David Boreanaz is for an hour or two?
Morgan: We could easily do that, yes. [laughs]
LaToya: Who needs plot when you’ve got David Boreanaz and Jeffrey Dean Morgan
in an episode of television together? [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah, can we call this Provider: Daddies All Around? [both laugh]
LaToya: Yes. But Cordelia Chase is telling Angel—Daddy, if you will—[Morgan
snorts] that you can’t lose sight of the mission, that even though he has mouths to
feed, like, she was eating pretty well before. So like, you don’t have to worry about
it. And this is where I wrote in my notes, in all caps, “Cordelia Chase of all people is
saying they don’t need to worry about the money. It’s fine. They just need to make
sure they’re still helping the helpless and working for the Powers.” First and
foremost, this girl who, in the first season’s credits, is showing off baby’s first
invoice. Insecure dash Natasha Rothwell dash that’s growth dot GIF!
Morgan: Hell yes. Truly, so proud. We have talked a lot about Cordelia’s growth
over especially the past couple of episodes, but it continues here. Cordy is the
moral compass of Angel Investigations. Who would’ve thunk it? [laughs]


LaToya: Imagine. And I know over in Sunnydale, they probably would laugh at
that. And you know what, who’s the moral compass on that show? It’s Tara, and
she moved out! So they don’t have that around.
Morgan: Yeah, it’s Tara, and they barely listen to her or let her talk! [laughs]
LaToya: And that’s why we’re having fun on Angel On Top, baby!
Morgan: Angel Season 3, the season that will never hurt us and never let us down.
LaToya: Never make us angry, ever.
Morgan: Speaking of being very happy, I’m happy because Gunn comes in. And he
is—has his hands full of all these flyers that he’s been putting out. Big yellow Angel
Investigation flyers.
LaToya: [simultaneously] Look at all these flyers.
Morgan: He has put out 6,000. Angel grabs one excitedly and says, “I’d call me.
Wouldn’t you?” [laughs]
LaToya: Yes! Yes, we would.
Morgan: I’m dying. Then, Fred launches the website and Wes says words no one
has ever meant. “Beautiful. We’re online.” [both laugh] I was like, take it back. Go
back. The internet was a mistake, Wes! [laughs]
[Clip from episode plays]
Angel: Ladies and gentlemen, boys and girls, welcome to a new area of
Angel Investigations. All we have to do now is wait for that phone to start
ringing and the money to start rolling in. [baby voice] Because someone's
got to clothe and feed and educate this little guy, yeah? [Connor babbles]
LaToya: Jesus. My notes literally is, “Boreanaz with this baby, comma, Jesus.”
[laughs]
Morgan: As they should be. They are so beautiful together. It’s—like I said, like,
rewatching Season 1, kind of, like, in conjunction with doing this podcast. I could
not believe how little he smiles in it, [laughs] versus how much he smiles in the
episodes that we’ve been watching. And it makes such a huge difference. What a
nice smile that man has. And then we cut to…a very rainy alley. A guy is running


from something spooky behind him. And they keep, like, juxtaposing it with just
the—[laughs] just the gang, quietly waiting.
LaToya: This is art. Honestly, Angel Season 3 is art. The tactics—the directing
tactics they’re using. It’s just—they love to play around with the form. This is
cinéma vérité, as far as I’m concerned. [laughs]
Morgan: [laughing] It fuck—it just fucking rules. [crosstalk]
LaToya: [simultaneously] Miss unsaid!
Morgan: It makes me laugh so hard. Absolutely miss unsaid. The cinnamon
tography. [both laugh] So the—this guy runs into a phone booth, finds the—you
know, the crumpled flyer and makes the call. He’s helpless and he needs help. And
Wes put the wrong phone number on the flyers. [both laugh] He calls a pizza place.
We are in split screen between this poor man…[laughs]
LaToya: We’re doing split screen!
Morgan: Yes, this poor man, Angel Investigations, and a guy answering a phone at
a pizza parlor. Our gang has a little work to do.
LaToya: I just—imagine. Director Auteur McG sees this episode of Angel. Split
screen, you say? Let me create the show Fast Lane. There will be split screen upon
split screen, even in the scene where two characters are in the same car, the front
seat and the passenger seat, we’ll do a split screen there, because he saw this
scene. He saw Fabrizio’s Pizza, and he’s like…cinema!
Morgan: Look, McG, admit it. You owe it all to Angel Season 3.
LaToya: He really, really does. And the thing—[laughs] the thing about Wes
putting the wrong phone number is, besides the online thing, Wes says nothing in
this scene. But when Fred points out that this is the wrong phone number, they all
look at Wes, meaning this was Wes’s one job. [laughs]
Morgan: Buddy. [laughs] Aren’t you supposed to be the smart one? Come on!
LaToya: This is not a good episode for Wes being the smart one. [laughs]
Morgan: It is not. It is not great for him. But I love Doofus Wes, so I was very
happy. So then we’re—after the titles, we’re back in the Hyperion lobby. We have
recalled 6,000 old flyers and put out 6,000 new ones. Oops. Meanwhile, Gunn is


making eyes at Fred. And they say something about her being cute, and Wes is
like, “Oh, I was talking about the baby.” And Gunn is like, “Oh, I was talking about
the hot…mama.”
LaToya: And, like, Wes is clearly talking about Fred but he’s trying to act like he’s
not being untoward, so he’s like, “I’m talking about the baby.” It’s like, that’s your
problem, Wes. Just admit you’re talking about the hot mama.
Morgan: Yeah, it’s okay to think she’s pretty. And I mean, I get that he probably
still has baggage from Billy, but like…
LaToya: Yeah. But it’s okay to tell your best friend you think she’s pretty.
Morgan: Honestly, I mean, like, in the workplace, I guess I wouldn’t want my
coworker maybe commenting on my appearance. But—
LaToya: But it doesn’t count with these people. Like, there’s too much blending.
It’s—there’s no—the only one who’s separated home life and, like, work life is
Lorne. [both laugh]
Morgan: Except now, boundaries are colliding all over the place ‘cause he’s walking
in in his PJs. [laughs]
LaToya: [simultaneously] He’s still separating. He’s not helping one bit until they
force him to. [laughs]
Morgan: But he is living his home life in the middle of their work life. [laughs]
LaToya: I’m not judging Lorne. Like, they had his club destroyed twice.
Morgan: Hundred percent.
LaToya: He can do whatever he wants.
Morgan: Oh yeah, we are fully Team Lorne over here. Like, where do you get your
silk PJs?
LaToya: [simultaneously] Lorne actually is innocent.
Morgan: Lorne, innocent. Lorne, tell me where you get your, like, I assume
custom-made, fitted silk pajamas, because they’re gorgeous and I would like some.


LaToya: So Angel takes Wes to task for a little bit, ‘cause you know, making
mistakes cost them money. Money is their number one priority. But also, you know,
so is, you know, saving the day. [laughs]
Morgan: Uh-huh.
LaToya: We got a bunch of number one priorities going on.
Morgan: And so is finding Holtz, correct?
LaToya: Yes, of course. Which is Lorne’s job, ‘cause Lorne has, you know, his
contacts in the underworld, so.
Morgan: Yes. And then…the barrage of phone calls and emails start.
LaToya: Aw yeah! [laughs]
Morgan: Gettin’ that money.
LaToya: [singing] Money, money, money, money!
Both: [singing] Money!
Morgan: Then we go to a place where I’m much less stoked. We go to Sahjhan’s
lair.
LaToya: I’m gonna try to say this real quick, without being mean. [both laugh] I
mean, some people can be mean. I’m gonna try to say it without being mean. I
understand the lack of Holtz and Justine love. I don’t love Justine. I think Holtz…I
think Holtz is a good character on paper, at least.
Morgan: I agree.
LaToya: Yeah, Justine, um…as I’ve said before, it either goes, you do what you
wanted to do with Kate or you cast a completely different type altogether.
And—’cause—[laughs] not cutting it. I will say, Keith Szarabajka, I’ve seen in other
things and he is always good elsewhere. I mean, he’s fine here with, like, what they
are wanting him to do. Like, it’s not like I’m saying what his performance is is bad.
Morgan: Yeah.


LaToya: I just think that the execution obviously leads to questions, as you’ve had,
Morgan, obviously.
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: He was very fun on Supernatural, ‘cause of course he was on
Supernatural, ‘cause who wasn’t on Supernatural? [laughs]
Morgan: We’ve—I was on Supernatural. I just don’t know about it. [both laugh]
LaToya: Oh, you were on the writers’ strike season, right?
Morgan: Yeah, I was on the writers’ strike season. [both laugh] I’m really good on
it, so you should check it out. But yeah, I don’t—I don’t disagree. Like, I definitely
prefer Holtz to Justine. And I definitely think it’s a character that’s, like, born of the
sins of Angel’s past and, you know, knew the old him, comes back and doesn’t care
that he’s a new him and wants to fight. Like, that is such a valid story to tell. And I
think there are moments in it that are great. But I just think the full blend of, like,
performance, execution and writing, like, doesn’t do it—ultimately leaves me, like,
colder than I think they want it to leave me.
LaToya: Mmhmm. It’s—
Morgan: [simultaneously] But, you know, sometimes that happens.
LaToya: You have to have Justine—it has to be—god, I can’t believe I’m saying
this—an Atticus Shane/Bonnie Bennett situation, where she’s a younger woman.
That way, the manipulation really…really works. And again, it is like the mayor and
Faith. Like, that warped Watcher/Slayer thing.
Morgan: Like, she doesn’t really feel like someone who’s being manipulated. She
kind of feels like someone without direction being, like, slightly shoved in a certain
direction and being like, okay, I guess I’ll go this way now. Like, it doesn’t seem
like…like, she doesn’t seem to be battling with anything internally.
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: Like, it’s weird. Yeah.
LaToya: Which is especially necessary when, essentially, Holtz is like, forming a
cult. As he—like, when he tells her his directive for her at the end of this. Like, he is
forming an anti-vampire cult. I said before, Elisabeth Röhm, say what you will


about her acting at this—even at this point. But at least knowing the character
would have helped immensely in this, if it’s not like a younger actress.
Morgan: Should we get into the—should we talk about stabby-stabby?
LaToya: [gruff voice] He told her to walk away from two vamps and she didn’t
listen!
Morgan: This is where I write in my notes, “Justine’s a rogue maverick.” And then,
“Holtz has a leather jacket. Was that always there?” [both laugh] Did they get
leather jackets together? See, now I’m starting to think she’s rubbing off on him a
little bit. [both laugh] Which I wish—
LaToya: [laughing] Now you like it!
Morgan: Now I’m like—now I like it. Now they’re, like, a weird little odd couple.
Like, I—if that was the vibe—
LaToya: It’s good now. [laughs]
Morgan: I would like it. I’m just trying to make my own fun over here. [laughs]
[Clip from episode plays]
Justine: Let's just say, feeling something…is better than feeling nothing.
Holtz: Take it out any time you like. If you're still here when I return, we'll
consider the next phase of our…partnership.
Morgan: I unfortunately could not hold back a little eye roll at that part. [LaToya
laughs] ‘Cause it’s…like, just feels—you know, we’ve seen that kinda thing before.
And—
LaToya: Yeah, she’s a cool girl.
Morgan: [snorts] Not a regular girl, she’s a cool girl. But luckily, the scene ends
and we go to…[both laugh] and we go to the Hyperion lobby, once again.
LaToya: It’s poppin’.
Morgan: It is poppin’. There are all these monsters in there. We see Fred
struggling with some pronunciation. [laughs] Talking to the guys with, like, the big


chrome masks. Do they have names? I refer to them in my notes exclusively as
Chrome Boys.
LaToya: Oh wait, are Chrome Boys our, like—our main villain peoples?
Morgan: Yes.
LaToya: They are the Nahdrahs.
Morgan: The Nahdrahs, okay, yes. She’s talking—
LaToya: Not to be mistaken with Nadya.
Morgan: Not to be mistaken with Nadya. So the Nahdrahs—yes, they have, like,
chrome masks and spooky robes. And they are here and they have a job.
LaToya: [laughs] They are here.
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: And they have a job. Yeah, it’s like a car dealership, is what is—the lobby
of the Hyperion right now, which is awesome.
Morgan: It’s great to see it full ‘cause it’s such a huge set.
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: And it’s almost always just, like, you know, the four of them. [laughs]
LaToya: I am never not impressed by this huge fucking set that they had—that
they had to, of course, you know, redress in Fredless to be the bus station.
Which—that’s always really funny. [both laugh] But it’s such a big, beautiful set.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: The money—I think Charisma told me, when I was interviewing her for
SlayerFest that, like, the budget was like, two million per ep?
Morgan: Jesus. So yeah, so Lorne can speak the Nahdrahs’ language and is
translating for her, and that will be an important point as we move forward. The
Chrome Boys say they want Wes. They want his mind. [laughs]


LaToya: Because apparently, they read his web articles on DNA fusion comparison
in Tri-ped demon populations. [Morgan snorts] Which—[laughs] so Wesley is,
like—you wouldn’t know it—the most interesting character on this show, off-screen.
[both laugh] Like, between the baby stuff and this. This is—and even his
relationship with Virginia in Season 2. Like, he’s doing all this amazing stuff
off-screen.
Morgan: Yeah, truly. Like, what is Wes doing when he’s not on screen? I would like
to be included. Meanwhile, Angel is just so excited. He’s talking to Connor and he’s
like, this is great. Like, if this keeps up, we might have to incorporate. And I write
in my notes, “Call David! Incorporate!” [laughs]
LaToya: I’m like, Angel on LLC Twitter, when? [both laugh]
Morgan: Angel on Twitter trying to figure out what’s going—what happened with
the whole GameStop thing, when? So Cordy, however, is expressing some concern.
She’s like, we’re stretched a little thin. And Angel’s like, no, no, no, we got it. And
Cordy’s like, okay, if we’ve got it, how about you answer some fucking phones?
[laughs]
LaToya: Cute.
Morgan: Angel answers the phone and is like, how urgent is it? Oh, huh. You work
at a good company, huh? You own it? And I’m like…
LaToya: Yeah, one of the first things he says: what do you do for a living? Angel!
Come on! But also, I just wanna note, Gunn taking that lady to his office and he’s
like, “it’s kinda personal.” That’s very sweet and again, Gunn, innocent. Gunn
Squad, bang-bang.
Morgan: Bang-bang. Yeah, Gunn has never done a thing wrong in his entire life. I
refer to the blond woman that he is—that he helps, who I now see on our
transcripts name is Ally. But I called her “Seventies Hair.” In my notes. [both
laugh]
LaToya: Yes. Literally…the 70s feathered hair is part of my notes. I also did not
realize her name was Ally until way deep into the episode, so I’m just like, Farrah
Fawcett? [laughs]
Morgan: Like, um, Eric’s big sister on That 70s Show? [LaToya laughs] Like, truly,
that’s who he looks—that’s who she looks like. And I was just like—


LaToya: It is!
Morgan: That’s her, right? Like, I know that’s not the same actress and I knew at
the time. So pl—yeah.
LaToya: But it also is her.
Morgan: But it also is her, you know? [laughs] So she has a stalker. It’s her
boyfriend. But he’s dead. [laughs]
LaToya: What?!
Morgan: Record scratch! [laughs]
LaToya: Her ex-boyfriend, Bryan. I knew his name. [both laugh]
Morgan: Yeah, I mean, we say “Bryan” like eight times. But—
LaToya: But also, Gunn says ACAB in this scene. Like, “the cops can’t help you
unless someone’s actually already dead.” [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah. Which I was like, fuck yeah, fuck yeah, roast the cops. And I love
that he’s like, okay, so your dead boyfriend’s stalking you? And she goes, well, I
mean. He’s not my boyfriend, now. [both laugh]
LaToya: This girl is, uh—she’s got a lot going on inside of that feathered head of
hers, honestly. [laughs]
Morgan: Ally is wild. Ally is kind of petty and very messy and I’m not against it.
[both laugh] I respect Ally.
LaToya: [simultaneously] At least we know your Fuck Watch. [both laugh]
Morgan: Oh, my—as if you don’t already know who my Fuck Watch is. [both laugh]
So then, back in the lobby, we have Wes—we have Wes talking to the Nahdrahs
and Lorne is translating. And Wes is doing a ton of nerd speak about his article.
[laughs]
LaToya: Yeah. And Lorne—he makes clear that he’s—he knows their language, ish.
He is not 100% fluent. He even says, “They wanna buy your head.” And then he
corrects: “your mind.” I mean, you were right the first time, homie. [laughs]


Morgan: Oof! [laughs] This is one of those stories where you know exactly where
it’s going to do the second it begins. And that’s not a problem. I know a lot of—like,
I’ve seen a lot of things online from people dinging things for being, like,
quote-unquote “predictable” lately. But I think some things are meant to be
predicted and meant to be this just, like—to give you this horrible sense of dread as
every step of it goes forward.
LaToya: Yeah, predictable doesn’t mean bad. Like, you can do a predictable story
and still have it, like, be well-written. You can also do a predictable story and have
it be terribly written. That’s the difference.
Morgan: Anyways, the—as the Nahdrahs are kind of, like, eyeing Wes and his, you
know, big fancy mind, we learn that someone else is also pretty smart. And that
someone is Fred. [laughs]
LaToya: Yes. Reminding us that, obviously, Fred’s—these past couple
episodes—been like a computer person. But like, this is definitely Fred’s, like, kind
of brain’s wheelhouse, more than, I would say, Wesley.
Morgan: Mmhmm. Yeah, like, a—geometry, math, shapes and puzzles. That is very
Fred. And she notices the designs on their robes and says all this, like, smart,
geometric, science-y stuff about it. And it was so cute and Wes, like, smiles at her
and is clearly very charmed. And the Nahdrahs are like, what did—what’d she say,
what’d she say? And—
LaToya: Yeah, and Lorne’s like, they wanna know why your girlfriend was pointing
at them. And then Wes is all like, she’s not my girlfriend. And here’s the thing.
Obvious—in this episode, we get passive-aggressive fighting between Wes and
Gunn, clearly, over Fred. They both realize that they both have intentions. But the
difference is, Gunn is willing to make his intentions clear and he would—he would
not correct them if he were in the same situation. He wouldn’t be like, “she’s not
my girlfriend,” he wouldn’t do that at all.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: But Wes keeps being like, oh, I wasn’t talking about Fred. Or no, she’s not
my girlfriend. And that’s…that’s the difference. [laughs]
Morgan: Wes is in denial, like, with himself. He does not—you’re right, he does not
wanna admit his intentions. And ultimately, like, you know, the guy who—you miss
a hundred percent of the shots you don’t take. And—


LaToya: [laughing] Wayne Gretsky, Michael Scott.
Morgan: Wayne Gretsky, Michael Scott, parentheses, Morgan Lutich. [LaToya
laughs] And I think that, like, Wes doesn’t seem like he is in the space to take the
shot any time soon. Whereas Gunn…shooters shoot. So Fred goes, “Did I do
something wrong?” ‘cause the Nahdrahs, like, kind of run away. And Lorne’s like,
“No, no, they liked you.” Which just—Fred, melting my heart at every second. The
most—just too precious for this world. I love her.
LaToya: Yeah, they needed to go consult their prince. ‘Cause they have a prince,
the chrome dudes, the Nahdrahs. [Morgan laughs] And Gunn needs Wes’s help and
Angel’s like, “big case, gotta run.” It’s a lot of moving pieces in this scene. It’s
great. This episode, again, kind of acknowledges—like, or plays with the idea,
like—so Angel’s still not the leader of—like, Wesley is the boss. But it’s still—it’s one
of those things where…Angel’s taking charge. He’s admonishing Wes for fucking up
with the phone number, come on, Wes.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Like, at first when they’re like, “the Nahdrahs wanna talk to your leader,”
they think it’s—he thinks it’s him. Angel does, because—
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: That’s just what—he’s the champion.
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: At the end of Season 2, we saw Wes getting more into that leadership role
in Pylea. And it feels like he’s kind of, like—I feel like the Billy stuff really fucked
him up and he’s taken a step back because of it.
Morgan: I think it’s just become a little muddy and a little bit vague. Because
obviously, the show is called Angel. Like, it’s just one of those things where I don’t
think they’re ever gonna be able to, like, fully decentralize him and make you buy
it. Because, you know, at the end of the day, we all know what we’re watching.
We’re watching Angel’s spinoff. So…it’s interesting.
LaToya: I mean—
Morgan: But it does feel like Wes doesn’t have a ton of power here.


LaToya: As I’ve told you before, the show was called Dawson’s Creek but the only
cast member in every single episode is Katie Holmes—
Morgan: True.
LaToya: Who played Joey Potter, so…
Morgan: Joey’s Creek. It’s not called Joey’s Creek.
LaToya: Joey’s Creek. Unfortunately, it was never called Pacey’s Creek either, but.
[laughs]
Morgan: As you mentioned, things are moving really fast. And it seems like we’re
losing a little bit of contact with each other, now that there’s so much business
going on. Things have gotten a little frantic. Everybody is getting maybe a little bit
more lax about things than they should be. [laughs] Like, it’s like, if we had all five
heads on one case, I think things would be going very differently than, like, the
more diffuse way everything is spread out.
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: But the diffuse way everything is spread out is very fun. [both laugh]
LaToya: I mean, yeah, it’s a fun episode. And you know, Angel, again, has no
problem with just leaving his baby to Cordy, at least. I mean, everyone else is
busy. Like, busy-busy, so. [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah, but un—but he’s like, hey, I think the baby needs a change, bye!
And I’m like, fuck you.
LaToya: Bye! [both laugh] And then…we go to our next scene.
Morgan: [simultaneously] We do go to our next scene.
LaToya: Which features, I guess, a young Jeffrey Dean Morgan. Jeffrey Dean
Morgan’s never been young.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: But you know what I mean.


Morgan: Like, I believe that he was, like, sprung fully forth as a daddy. But, um,
yeah.
LaToya: This season has given us both Kris Palaha and Jeffrey Dean Morgan, both
David Boreanaz types, honestly.
Morgan: Mmhmm!
LaToya: I’m truly surprised Jon Hamm does not, like, round out [laughs] the David
Boreanaz types on this season of television. [Morgan laughs] But he did show up in
Gilmore Girls as, like, the most boring man alive. [laughs]
Morgan: Mm. Mmhmm. I am glad that Jon Hamm is not on this show, ‘cause I
would not be able to discuss his performance on this show in a way that would be
objective or normal. ‘Cause I am—
LaToya: [laughing] Do you think I’m gonna be able to discuss Jeffrey Dean Morgan
on this show in a way that’s objective or normal?
Morgan: We’re gonna find out! [both laugh] So, Jeffrey Dean Morgan seems
like—he’s in a power suit. He’s talking on a phone headset. And he calls Angel “Mr.
Angel.” [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah, he does. [laughs]
Morgan: He introduces himself as Harlan Elster. And Angel is trying to also be like
a big-time fancy guy and he’s like, “Oh, don’t worry, I get that you’re busy. I know
what it’s like when your name’s on the letterhead.” And I’m like, shut up, dweeb.
[both laugh]
LaToya: Get the fuck outta here, bitch. [both laugh]
Morgan: Like—just a goof. And then Harlan’s like, “well, you kind of aren’t, like,
what I pictured. Pretty well coiffed.” [laughs]
LaToya: And I’m just gonna put the jingle here. Someone is bi for Boreanaz. And
by “bi,” I mean gay, because this character is gay. Hit the theme song! [both
laugh]
[BI FOR BOREANAZ jingle plays]
He’s got a broody stare and hot spiky hair
If you’re straight or gay,


Your tingly feelings don’t care
You’re just being honest ‘bout this
Sexy demonic and you're…
Bi for Boreanaz
Bi for Boreanaz
Bi for Boreanaz
LaToya: So obviously, we’re talking about David Boreanaz types. I guess
people—there are some people who may not know who Jeffrey Dean Morgan is.
Morgan: I’m confused by who they are, but okay. Let’s—I’ll bite. If you don’t know
who Jeffrey Dean Morgan is, I guess you have not watched…lots of television.
LaToya: You didn’t watch any show in 2005, where he was a father who—or just a
person who died. Whether he was on Grey’s Anatomy and he died and he was
having ghost sex with Katherine Heigl.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Or he’s on Weeds and he’s like, “Mary Louise Parker, I love you,” and he
died. Or he was on Supernatural and he’s like, “I’m your dad who’s bad, but also, I
die.”
Morgan: Yeah. Dang. He was dying all over the TV in the mid-aughts.
LaToya: And he’s still swinging. He’s on The Walking Dead. He’s got a baseball bat.
He’s married to Hilarie Burton, because Jensen Ackles and his wife, Danneel, who’s
on One Tree Hill with Hilarie Burton, fixed them up!
Morgan: Dang!
LaToya: Yeah!
Morgan: I will say, like, I—I speak a lot about dead wives and how angry I am
about that as a very popular plot device to make a man sad and give him purpose.
But Jeffrey Dean Morgan has really made a name for himself as a dead husband,
you know?
LaToya: Oh, wait, I have to correct myself. I’m so sorry. I believe he’s actually not
the dead husband in P.S. I Love You. He is the replacement for Gerard Butler, who
is the dead husband in P.S. I Love You.


Morgan: Ohh. Okay. So Jeffrey Dean Morgan has a job for Mr. Angel. He has a nest
of vampires that he wants cleaned out. They want $5,000, but on principle, Jeffrey
Dean Morgan is willing to pay Angel $10,000 to get him to get rid of all of these
vamps. Angel’s got dollar signs in his eyes. He’s Money Monster on a whole other
level.
LaToya: I am really surprised we did not hear a “cha-ching” sound effect. This is
the episode to do it, honestly. And Jeffrey Dean Morgan even asked, you know, who
ever heard of a vampire out to make a buck, right? [Morgan laughs] And I gotta
say, I know we’re doing a feud and it’s a whole bit. We don’t really hate Kristin and
Jenny, of course not. We could never! We love them.
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: But like, Angel does bits about a vampire taking money to save people
way better than Buffy does mocking Angel for being a show about a vampire taking
money to help people. I’m just like, don’t, like, come at the king, honestly, Buffy
the Vampire Slayer.
Morgan: True. And also, Kristin and Jenny, I love you! [laughs] The—so he offers
Angel 10,000 bucks and he’s like, “I’ll give you five now and five when it’s finished.”
And yeah, Angel is truly, like, high-fiving a million angels and he’s so, so, so
excited.
LaToya: So he’s writing the check, you know?
Morgan: Mmhmm. Yeah.
LaToya: This fake check. And apparently, this company is on Ocean Avenue, in Los
Angeles, 90001. Now, 90001 is Huntington Park.
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: Ocean Avenue. That’s in Santa Monica.
Morgan: [simultaneously] Santa Monica. [laughs]
LaToya: What’s happening here?
Morgan: We were talking about being bi for Boreanaz, but I wanna say, I feel like
Angel’s throwing a little bit of a vibe Jeffrey Dean Morgan’s way. Like, he is liking
the cut of his jib. Like, it is, at the very least, like, a “I wanna be you” crush, if not


an “I wanna kiss you on the mouth” crush. But, like, something’s there, I do wanna
say.
LaToya: I just imagine the alpha male posturing that was on the set the day
Boreanaz and Morgan had a scene together. Like, think about them doing it now in
2021. They’re both grizzled veterans—
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Of the television screen. They’re both silver foxes in their own way.
Morgan: I’m listening.
LaToya: Someone write that fanfiction, please! [both laugh]
Morgan: So then, he leaves. And another man comes out of a door behind Jeffrey
Dean Morgan, is like, “What are you doing in my office?” And then Jeffrey Dean
Morgan punches him out.
LaToya: That’s the Jeffrey Dean Morgan I know.
Morgan: Our next scene takes place in Sahjhan’s lair. Justine’s taking a little nap
on the table that her hand is pinned to by an icepick. Holtz does something I didn’t
care for, in that he lays his head down on the table next to hers, to have a
conversation with her. Which I guess is, like, an attempt to, like, be eye-to-eye with
her and more of an equal. But for me, I was just like, get aw—get—some more
distance between you two. [LaToya laughs] I don’t like this. [laughs]
LaToya: Sophie B. Hawkins’ “As I Lay Me Down” was about this scene, actually.
[both laugh] What a deep cut.
[“As I Lay Me Down” starts to play in background]
Morgan: [laughs] I truly don’t know what you’re talking about, [LaToya laughs] but
I respect you and I care for you.
It felt like springtime on this February morning
In a courtyard, birds were singing your praise
[song ends]
LaToya: All the lesbians are gonna love that cut.


Morgan: [laughs] I’m so happy for all of you guys out there. [both laugh] So…Holtz
basically is like, here’s the deal. He, you know, unstabs her and he tells Justine,
like, “I need you to get more people. Go out and find others like you, people who
have suffered as we have. You’ll know when you see them. Their eyes…will
look…like this feels.” [LaToya snorts] And then he rips the icepick out of her hand.
So this is where I write in my notes in all caps: so helpful, exclamation point.
[LaToya laughs] Just go outside and look people in the eyes until you find a sad
one. [laughs]
LaToya: In Los Angeles!
Morgan: I’m like, bitch, you’re gonna see me out on the streets of Los Angeles,
[LaToya laughs] looking sad, and guess who’s not gonna help your ass? Me. I will
give Justine credit for one thing. [laughing] And it’s that she immediately
backhands Holtz and is like—
LaToya: She still is working for him and doing his bidding. And she’s…[sighs]
[sarcastically] she’s such a cool girl.
Morgan: She’s very, very cool.
[AD BREAK]
Morgan: Our next scene, Angel’s back at the Hyperion. Everyone’s gone and
there’s, like, papers—
LaToya: He says, “5,000 smackaroos.” Who is this man? [both laugh]
Morgan: He’s also, like…Old Man Angel has never been more prevalent than the
fact that he’s like, “Isn’t this country great?” [both laugh] I’m like, has a young
person ever said those words? [laughs] Just truly loves capitalism, and I’m like,
great. He says he wants to show Wes and Gunn the 5,000-dollar check, which is so
cute.
LaToya: I need Old Man Angel to meet Anya and talk about money.
Morgan: Ugh. That is a tragedy, that they didn’t get to hang out. Like, Anya right
now talking to Angel about, like, how to invest his money and make sure that the
money grows into more money. I think that would be really nice. And get David in
there, and have them all have a little meeting. That’d be cute. I’d like that.


LaToya: That’d be so good. We can have this in our books that we write.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Our canon books. [Morgan laughs] Please let us write something.
Morgan: Please! They tell Angel that Wes and Gunn are out on this case. And
Angel’s like, uh, the gal has money? And I’m like, Jesus, Angel! [both laugh] God,
remember when he used to help people? [both laugh] Just because they needed
help? Come on.
LaToya: But also, I love that it took him three years to realize that Cordelia was
right and she’s moved on. [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah, like, she is over being right, but he is now finally caught up with
her. Cordelia’s, like, worried about their bandwidth. Like, she says something like I
was saying before, where it’s like, working on this many cases at once, like,
stretching themselves really thin, it might not be the right move. And she’s like,
“What if we’re all out making money and some poor devil stumbles in here and
needs our help?” Cue Lorne walking in! [laughs]
LaToya: Ha-ha-ha! They should make more devil jokes about Lorne. It’s good,
actually. Also, I just wanna note real quick that Angel, of course, brings up Notre
Dame again. Class of 2020. Oof. [laughs]
Morgan: Oof. Ugh, poor Connor. [laughs]
LaToya: That Zoom graduation. [both laugh]
Morgan: Angel—it’s Angel trying to work Zoom to attend Connor’s Zoom
graduation. [both laugh] So Lorne is actually, like, shit-faced. [both laugh] He
drank fire water that is used—that he used to loosen the tongue of his Gar-wak
snitch.
LaToya: Yeah, it’s like, magical fire water where he’s both, like, drunk and high.
[laughs]
Morgan: Yeah, ‘cause he mentions that there’s a bong involved and also chanting.
So he says, yeah, apparently Holtz is really not fond of you. And he had all these
Grapplar demons, but unfortunately, he poisoned them. And I’m like—
LaToya: [simultaneously] Morgan’s boys.


Morgan: Yes, RIP, boo, boo, hiss. Very sad.
LaToya: But also, that is actually really good intel, the fact that he already knows
that Holtz is trying to, like, build an army of people—like, like-minded people. That
just happened, so you know what? Good job, Lorne.
Morgan: Lorne did good. Did he get drunk while doing it? Sure. But like, you know.
LaToya: Who hasn’t? Who hasn’t been drunk doing work? That’s how I function.
[laughs]
Morgan: Work hard, play hard. So then, our chrome boys return. And they’re—
LaToya: Chrome Boys!
Morgan: I love them. Cordy asks Lorne to translate ‘cause it’s all snap, crackle and
pop to her. And Lorne’s like, oh, okay, they don’t want Wes anymore. They actually
want Fred. And I’m like, hell yeah, Fred’s a smartie!
LaToya: [laughs] We’re like, agree! We love Wes, we’re pro-Wes. But you know
what, sometimes you need Fred.
Morgan: Fred’s down. Angel’s like, yeah, absolutely, go. But Lorne, you’ll need to
be around to translate. Tell ‘em it won’t be cheap, they’re getting two of our top
employees. That’s salary, per diem, overtime. [both laugh] Money. Monster.
LaToya: If the movie Money Monster was just, like, Boreanaz as Angel and George
Clooney and Julia Roberts? That’d be good to me, actually. [laughs]
Morgan: That would also be good to me. Then our Chrome Boys ask to be forgiven
for their paltry offer, which is a suitcase full of cash that amounts to $50,000.
LaToya: They all freak out. Again, the directing is top notch.
Morgan: Angel reaches out, grabs the money and is like, “We accept!” [laughs]
LaToya: Angel’s—I should start rewatching the promos before I watch them. But
Angel’s week—this is 100% in the promo for this episode. [laughs]


Morgan: Cute. The gang’s happy, which you know means they’re gonna stay happy
and that there’s gonna be no prank element to any of this and that everything’s
gonna go great.
LaToya: Just like Season 3 in general, so you know.
Morgan: Mmhmm. Meanwhile, over at Ally AKA Seventies Hair’s place, Gunn and
Wes are guarding her. And she’s like, you know, like, I consider myself pretty
independent and it’s hard for me to ask for help. But it feels good to have you guys
here.
[Clip from episode plays]
Ally: You know, that woman you work with was right. You inspire confidence.
Wes: Which woman?
Ally: Brunette, really cute, Texan maybe?
Gunn and Wes: [dreamily] Fred.
LaToya: And then, they realize they both like Fred.
Morgan: And it’s so silly. Like, they are be—they’re starting to get so, like,
squabbly and territorial with each other.
LaToya: So, like, now the boys are fighting, basically. And I love Wes.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: I don’t know if we made this clear because, you know, we are the Gunn
Squad. I do love Wesley Wyndam-Pryce—
Morgan: [simultaneously] Bang-bang. But yeah.
LaToya: But I feel like…he has no leg to stand on. Again, we’ve talked about how,
like, the Billy thing really messed with him. But like, Gunn and Fred, just in general,
interact and hang out more. If anyone—if Fred were to know that either one of
them has feelings for her, I don’t think she would know that Fred—like, Wesley has
feelings for her.


Morgan: I mean, I think she might, based on some of the, like, stuff that happened
in Billy, like, only. But it’s not like a positive thing and it’s not a thing that they
want—like. He has not expressed healthy, normal interest in her.
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: Like, if she knows anything, it’s tied up in the, like, sadness, guilt, shame
and fear—
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: Of everything that happened in Billy. And like, that obviously kind of, like,
poisoned the well for Wes. Which is, like—
LaToya: Unfortunately, yeah.
Morgan: I mean, it’s definitely something you can talk about. But it…like, Wes,
like, you aren’t in the game. Like, you have to tell her that you like her. You know?
LaToya: Like, she knows Gunn thinks she’s beautiful and that she’s so cool. Like,
these are things she knows.
Morgan: Gunn is also just, like, more of a gregarious person. Like, he—I think he’s
a person—it’s easier for him to do this kind of thing than I think it is for Wesley,
who is someone who, like, always gets in his own way when it’s time to do stuff like
this. ‘Cause he’s, you know, so aggressively British. It’s not like Wes is a bad guy or
like, he isn’t a viable love interest for anyone. It’s just that—
LaToya: Exactly. It’s not like—he does have a point where he says, you know, they
get the same things, basically. That is a point, but again, he’s still not in the game
because of that.
Morgan: Yeah, I am currently pretty solidly Team Gunn and Fred, ‘cause those two
cuties. How am I to live?
LaToya: I mean, we have the most subversive podcast on the planet, where you
know, we’re Gunn Squad, bang-bang. We wanna fuck Boreanaz, which, I mean,
people don’t admit but, like, come on. [muttering] We all wanna fuck Boreanaz.
Morgan: Do people not wanna…who’s out here saying they aren’t attracted to
David Boreanaz?


LaToya: People—people act like they don’t want that. Like, they don’t want that
Boreanaz.
Morgan: [scoffs] Alright.
LaToya: Dido knew. And she acted accordingly, when the time came. [laughs]
Morgan: Okay, guys. [laughs] Okay.
LaToya: We will go down with that ship.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Dido Squad!
Morgan: Dido, bang-bang. [both laugh] But no, I think that’s a fair thing to state
out, that like, Gunn is actually going for it and Wes isn’t. Like, Gunn is, like, laying
groundwork and Wes is, like, looking at a pretty girl from afar and mooning at her.
Which, like, hey, look, Wes, that was my move for a very long time, so I get it. So
the boys are like, well, we gotta determine, like, what kind of back-from-the-dead
ex-boyfriend stalker—
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: We’re dealing with. Like, vampire, zombie, ghost, et cetera. [laughs] And
luckily, the answer is pretty readily available ‘cause he shows up, and he’s a fucking
zombie, if I’ve ever seen one. [laughs]
LaToya: Literally, I wrote in my notes: enter Bryan, who looks v. much like a
zombie. [laughs] The visual language for “zombie” in the Buffyverse is very
apparent.
Morgan: Yes, it is not a subtle look. And—but it’s really fun. And it’s fun to have,
like, the boys fighting a little zombie, like, and barring the door and stuff. Like, it’s
good stuff. It’s good stuff for the boys. In our next scene, we go to the barge,
[LaToya snorts] where the Chrome Boys live. Lorne is seasick and hungover and
not doing well. [laughs]
LaToya: And then they offer him eyeball and insect hors d'oeuvres. And in keeping
with the fact that we are bad at all things French, do you wanna know how I spell
hors d'oeuvres? [both laugh]


Morgan: Yes.
LaToya: H-O-R-S-D-E-R-V-S. There’s no spaces, there’s—I know there is, like, an
apostrophe somewhere. But no, in my mind, it spelled horse-dervs, one word. [both
laugh]
Morgan: Horse-dervs. But I am obsessed—I wish more than anything—Lorne and
Fred are asked to pose for a picture. And I wish I could have that picture. [both
laugh] ‘Cause they do that—do a little pose and they’re like, ooh, a little
picture—like, I wish more than anything I could have that photo and, like, put it on
my desk. ‘Cause those are two cuties. I love a Lorne and Fred team-up, because
they’re both just, like, such sunshine-y little sweeties. Like, that is the positive
vibes I need.
LaToya: He really likes her, and—as he should. ‘Cause it’s—for Fred also, it’s like, a
familiar kind of thing without being the terribleness of Pylea.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Like, she was around Pyleans for so long and they were all, like, bad. But
like, the show doesn’t go in, you know, a typical fashion where she’d be, like, really
apprehensive near him. And since she, like—she always feels safe around him.
Morgan: Yeah. And like, it’s the idea of the bond you have with someone when you
both got out of the same bad situation together.
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: Like, I really—I really like that for them. And like, that is—that is
something you can be really close with someone about. And they are both
survivors, like, of Pylea, in a way, which is really, like, cool and sweet. And it’s nice
that they are both big enough, like, kind enough people to allow that to be, like, a
positive thing for them. Like, I think that that—or at least, that they feel
comfortable enough with each other for that to be a positive thing, rather than like,
a tragic reminder. We are led to the puzzle. And Fred immediately is like, oh, of
course, and starts spewing, like, [laughing] science-math nonsense that I could not
even begin to understand.
LaToya: How lucky is Wesley that he wasn’t the one who did this and, like, let
Gunn and Fred have their own mess-around with a zombie? [both laugh]
Morgan: Yeah. Then Angel arrives at the nest, and he’s clowning on it.


LaToya: Well, in my notes, I wrote, in an episode like this, how could you not
wanna watch Angel the TV series? How could you not wanna watch this spinoff?
[both laugh] Look at him!
Morgan: He is just deeply unimpressed. Like, he finds, like, watches and wallets
and purses. And he’s like, this fucking sucks. Like…[both laugh] not interested.
Then, some of the vampires come back and he starts fighting them. One of them
calls dibs on Angel’s coat, for like, once they’ve defeated him. And I’m like, excuse
me. If you dust him, his clothes are gonna disappear with that, so that’s gonna be
tough.
LaToya: Right?
Morgan: You gotta wrangle a coat off someone before you kill them. That’s not
gonna be easy.
LaToya: They’re real leprechaun-ass bitches, looking for treasure. [both laugh]
Morgan: Truly. And these are very, like, scavenger-y vampires. But we know our
boy Angel is up to the task. [laughs]
LaToya: And then he goes back to see his good buddy, Harlan Elster.
Morgan: Fellow businessman.
LaToya: And then the real Harlan Elster shows up, being like, hey. I’m the real
Harlan Elster. Did you really think anyone was named Harlan Elster? Definitely not
Jeffrey Dean Morgan. [both laugh]
Morgan: Angel’s just like, feeling bad and feeling duped. And it turns out the guy
he actually talked to is Sam Ryan, who used to work for the real Harlan Elster. He
was a press foreman and he got fired six months ago, but he kept coming to him to
bankroll some “kooky scheme.” And Angel’s like, shit. What kooky scheme?
[laughs]
LaToya: Let me tell you about this kooky scheme. He wanted me to pay some
charlatan ghostbuster to take out these vampires. [both laugh]
Morgan: [groans] And—


LaToya: Ever since he lost his—now the air quotes are even bigger than they’ve
ever been—all caps, “friends.”
Morgan: Wink. And yeah, it’s really sad. Angel’s like, well, shit. Like, he tears up
the check. He’s like, I was duped. And then, Elster mentions, yeah, he kept ranting
about these, like, immortal creatures living in a rat-infested building, guarding their
treasure. Whatever. [LaToya laughs] And Angel’s like, uh, Charles, what now?
Treasure?
LaToya: Treasure?
Morgan: Like, he is so excited. [both laugh] And Angel’s back in the dang game.
LaToya: He almost started to realize, what am I doing? Nope, and then treasure
was involved. Oh, well. And then we’re back on the barge.
Morgan: Yeah, we are.
LaToya: Poor hungover Lorne. He has to go puke his guts out.
Morgan: Lorne is, like, heading to go to the bathroom, but instead, he hears some,
like, spooky talking. And he looks behind a curtain and he sees a bunch of these
Chrome Boys, hanging out around an old Chrome Boy in a prominent chair, that I
believe we can assume is the prince.
LaToya: [laughs] Context clues.
Morgan: They say they—they tell their prince they found a head worthy to rest on
your noble shoulders. We will sew it on this very night. I need to talk about the
graphics on the laptop.
LaToya: [laughs] This is, um…art. This is Van Gogh. This is Picasso. This is…
Morgan: This is everything.
LaToya: I’ve—I—Donatello.
Morgan: [simultaneously] Yeah. Raphael.
LaToya: This is Raphael. [both laugh] This is Michelangelo. [both laugh]


Morgan: I was beside myself, with, like—they got a little PowerPoint, where Fred’s
head comes off of her body. And it has a little red line on the neck, from where, you
know, presumably blood—it’s a zigzag.
LaToya: That’s the cut, that’s where the cut is. To which I wrote in my notes, this
frickin’ Pretty Little Liars annotations MS Paint job, and if you know—
Morgan: You know.
LaToya: You know. [laughs]
Morgan: Truly, I write in my notes, the graphics. Oh, lord. The graphics. I was
thrilled by this. And I would like to see more of their presentations. [laughs]
LaToya: Season 3 of Angel, I have to say…is the peak of comedy in a way that only
shows like The Good Wife and Mad Men have achieved. And if you think that is, like,
a burn on something, it’s not. If you have ever watched The Good Wife or Mad Men,
you know, those are actually the peak of comedy.
Morgan: If you’ve watched late-season Mad Men, let’s talk about how it’s one of
the best comedies we’ve ever had. [laughs] Our next scene is in Wes’s office. Cordy
is jumping up and down, while talking to Connor, ‘cause it turns out she is trying to
float again.
[CORDELIA jingle plays]
Cordelia… (ah-ahh)
I love you, Cordelia (ah-ahh)
You're perfect, Cordelia (ah-ahh)
LaToya: Ugh, love her!
Morgan: My cutie. My—my angel. She is so dang cute. And she’s like, “Seriously,
though! Like, I really can, I really can!” And she’s telling him all about, like, how
the visions used to be a pain, but now there’s a little demon in her, so now the
visions are a breeze. And I’m like, yes, yes, yes. Good for you, I love you. You
know, we left off with her, like, having a little demon in her and floating. And we
really don’t check in with how that’s going for her, aside from this.
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: And she’s like, yeah, you’ve got a weird life ahead of you. And you know,
your dad, like, is—you’re not gonna see him age. But like, he’s a really good


person. And, like, it’s just really nice. Like, Cordy is really—seems really
comfortable as a piece of this family. And she seems really, like, confident and
happy in her own skin, and not in conflict about the decision that she made, at all,
aside from, you know, like, fearing that she might horns. [laughs] But so far, that
doesn’t seem to be a problem.
LaToya: But yeah, Cordelia can’t float. But you know what? She knows that Angel
is a good man and a champion and he loves baby Connor very much, ‘cause look at
panim, as you would say.
Morgan: Yeah, look at that cute little panim! Ugh. A beautiful baby, a beautiful
family. I am happy. Our next—
LaToya: Morgan, did you cry at the end scene, by the way?
Morgan: Me? What? No? [both laugh] I definitely didn’t cry—
LaToya: “I never cry!”
Morgan: I’ve never cried in my entire life, so…[both laugh] so yeah, I didn’t start
yesterday when I watched this episode. [both laugh] No, I—yeah, I teared up. I got
very emotional, it was too much for me, for my little heart to take.
LaToya: And I—[laughs] and I warned you.
Morgan: Oh, you did. And I was still not prepared. [both laugh] Our next scene
takes place in the nest. I write in my notes, hi, JDM. And then, parentheses, drools.
So that’s how I’m doing.
LaToya: Oh, do you wanna know what my notes say? The next. JDM’s dimples as
Angel has him.
[Clip from episode plays]
Sam: Give it back.
Angel: No, I think I earned it, don't you? What is it? Rolex?
Sam: Timex.
Angel: Oh. [grunts] What is it, really? Considering all the trouble you went
through to get it, we both know it's not just a watch.


Sam: That's true. It's not.
Angel: Probably worth more than ten grand, too.
Sam: A lot more.
Angel: What's it do? Open a portal? Raise an army?
Sam: Glows in the dark. Probably about all of them do now. Looks like they
cracked it when they took it off him. I told him to let them have it, but he
wasn't about to give it up. That was the first thing I ever bought him.
Angel: These vampires killed your friend.
LaToya: Yes, his “friend.”
Morgan: His friend.
LaToya: I mean, I’ve been telling you for ages—
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: That this is what we’re getting. And do you agree with me that Sam Ryan
is a gay man?
Morgan: I honestly—well, I’ll be honest. I did not read it as gay. I thought it was
gonna be revealed that it was his son, and it was gonna be, like, a provider, like,
thematic—like, it was—
LaToya: Oh, wow. His—his large adult son, huh, Morgan?
Morgan: I thought—
LaToya: You can’t believe a man can be gay?
Morgan: I thought he’d had, like, a kid he’d bought a little watch. Like, the first
thing he ever bought—like, I don’t know. That’s what—but you know, they don’t
reveal that it’s that. It totally tracks that, like, it’s a queer narrative. I’m in. I’m in
favor. I just—at first, I was just like, I had my theme cap on and I was like, ah,
provider. Angel is working on doing stuff for his son and he’s gonna meet someone
who lost his son. And, the—no. Not like that. Which is good, because not everything


needs to be one-to-one. [both laugh] It’s actually—a lot of things are better when
they are not one-to-one, because nothing in life is ever one-to-one. So when it
always is in TV, it’s usually a little annoying. [laughs]
LaToya: The only time it ever really works when it’s one-to-one is in The OC. And
that’s it, everything else should stop. [both laugh]
Morgan: So Angel’s like—Angel’s mad, and he’s like, you lied to me. And Sam says
he’s sorry. And he’s like, look, I didn’t kill three vampires for nothing. Like, give me
ten grand. And Sam says seven, and Angel says, okay, fine, I’ll take seven. And he
goes, no, no, no. [LaToya laughs] You said three vampires, there were seven. [both
laugh]
LaToya: This is the worst vampire nest cult ever. It took seven of them…to get this
dude’s Timex watch that glows in the dark and kill him.
Morgan: Embarrassing.
LaToya: I—I love Angel. Obviously.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: He—he’s a good kid. I want Angelus back just to, like, teach these
whippersnappers what to do in life. They’re all pathetic. Darla’s dead now.
Drusilla—who knows what Drusilla is doing, honestly. She’s just—she’s just
Drusilla’ing all over the place.
Morgan: She’s, like, evil eat-pray-loving across the world. [laughs]
LaToya: Yes, hot, good.
Morgan: So our next scene, we have Cordy. She’s still talking to Connor. And
she—I need to talk about what she does. Which is, she holds up a bunch of money
next to her face and peers down into the bassinet. And when I saw this, all I could
think of were those old, like, posts that you’d see, like, on Twitter or Myspace,
where it’s like…you’ve arrived at the money, Cordy. Like, please RT and then you
will be blessed with, like, finding a bunch of money in your life. Truly, the image of
her holding cash and smiling at a baby has such good energy for me. And I like it.
LaToya: The only thing this episode is really missing is a 90s-style rap music video
where they’re all, like, dancing and posing with the money.


Morgan: [laughs] So over at the barge, Fred is almost done with the puzzle. And
she does not know that she shouldn’t be doing that.
LaToya: Whoops!
Morgan: Meanwhile, over at Ally’s, which I again have in my notes as “70s house,”
Ally’s starting to get annoyed. She’s like, “Can you guys, like, wrap it the fuck up? I
have plans.”
LaToya: Ally—
Morgan: And Wes is like—[laughs]
LaToya: Her name should be Karen. Or whatever is the 70s equivalent of Karen.
Morgan: Truly. And it turns out, while Wes and Gunn thought they had every
entrance covered, they missed the skylight in the kitchen. Which I’m like, Ally has a
nice place if she’s got a kitchen skylight. [laughs] Also, like, Angel the series, like,
never met a skylight they didn’t want someone to crash through. [both laugh] As
later is proved in the episode. Gunn hits him with a baseball bat and they run
through the bedroom, and they’re all barricading themselves in. So then we see
Cordy, like, at the Hyperion. And she’s calling them and she tells Connor that Uncle
Wes and Uncle Gunn aren’t picking up, and your daddy doesn’t know how to work
his voicemail. [LaToya laughs] So we’ll have to go down to the marina, return the
money, and explain it was all just a big mistake. [laughs] So then, back at 70s
house, Bryan is like, “Why won’t you talk to me, baby?” And Ally’s like, “This is why
I broke—like, I broke up with you. ‘Cause you’re suffocating me. Now get lost!” It
works, because Bryan, like, immediately walks away and stops pounding on the
door and goes into the living room just to sit by himself and pout. And I feel really
bad for him.
LaToya: I feel bad for him, but for the reason that she is the one who poisoned
him!
Morgan: Yep.
LaToya: Like, this is—this whole plot is a weird, like, my boyfriend’s back slash
Some Assembly Required slash The Zeppo thing. ‘Cause this show—these shows
and zombies. I’m gonna say, zombies aren’t their strong suit. [laughs]
Morgan: They seem to kind of only have a comedy take on zombies, which I think
is kind of fair, because…


LaToya: Or, um, an ACAB take.
Morgan: Yes.
LaToya: A Sean Ryan ACAB take. [laughs]
Morgan: Yes. Fair. And I don’t know, it’s interesting. The idea is that, like, we
reveal that, like, she’s the one who poisoned him in the first place. And he is,
like—he’s not letting her go because he’s like, you’re not happy. Like, all these
people that you’ve dated after me, like, they aren’t making you happy. You’re not
having any fun. And, um…these two crazy kids…looks like they’re gonna get back
together! [laughs] And Wes and Gunn look at each other like—
LaToya: And—
Morgan: “What the fuck?” [both laugh]
LaToya: They do not call the cops ‘cause they are not snitches. But they do wanna
know—
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: If this will be cash or charge. [laughs] She murdered this man. And I
guess she’s—’cause I think she probably got, like, a mystical—
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Poison, and that’s probably what turned him into a zombie, not realizing it
would turn him into a zombie.
Morgan: Probably. So back at the nest. Angel is across the room, just sitting there,
because if he doesn’t get paid, he doesn’t fight. [laughs]
[Clip from episode plays]
[sounds of fighting in background]
Angel: Okay. You know what, I'll help barricade, but that's it.
LaToya: This bitch won’t freelance! And you know what? [Morgan laughs] I agree.


Morgan: So then over in the barge, Fred finishes solving the puzzle. And, like, she
slides the last piece into the, like, glass pyramid-y thing, and it glows. And the
Nahdrahs around her are all like, woo, yay, cool, cool, cool. And Fred’s like, “Oh, it
was nothing.” [laughing] And she’s so cute!
LaToya: And here’s where I note that if you watch the Angel Season 3 gag reel,
when she finishes the puzzle, the Nahdrahs pull a Macarena—
Morgan: Aww!
LaToya: Like Dr. Evil from Austin Powers. It’s very funny.
Morgan: That is so cute. They take her into another room and she sees Lorne, tied
on the ground. Lorne’s like, look, um…we’re in a bit of a situation, I’ll admit it.
[laughs] Fred is so worried, she sees the old chrome prince and says, “I don’t have
to marry him, do I?” The princes just wear out their heads every once in a while, so
they have to get new ones. They—so they put Fred in this thing, this, like, manacle.
And they—there’s this moment where they, like, remove her pigtails from inside the
manacle so that they can, like, more cleanly chop off her head, and it made me
scream. I couldn’t handle it. I’m too worried about her, she’s too precious and too
dear. Luckily, Cordy shows up. And she would like a word. [laughs]
LaToya: A sentence, even. And you know what? It would have gone well, I think, if
not for the fact that Lorne believed the boys were all in tow as backup.
Morgan: So Lorne, from his vantage point on the floor, can only see Cordy and
assumes that the guys are there, and is like, you better watch out ‘cause you’re
surrounded by warriors. And like, they’re gonna fucking kill you! [both laugh] Our
next scene is back in the nest. Angel does decide to help. He says that barricading
is complementary. Sam’s like, “I can’t leave, these things killed Jack. If I run now,
I’ll run for the rest of my life.” And Angel’s like, “Do you really think Jack would
want you to, like, die?” And he says, “No, I think he’d probably wanna be here with
me, but that’s never gonna happen.”
LaToya: Still think it’s a son, Morgan? You homophobe.
Morgan: [sighs] No. I think it’s his boyfriend. [both laugh] And Angel’s
like—[groans] fuck it.
[Clip from episode plays]
[sounds of fighting in background]


Angel: You take on a job in good faith, you expect to be compensated. You
provide the best service you can offer. A quality service. But you know,
there's overhead. There's rent, three phone lines, advertising, it adds up!
Morgan: I think that this would make a perfect Angel Investigations commercial.
He can’t resist being a champion. He really can’t. Like, he—as much as he has
become a money monster this episode, and as much as he wants to provide for
Connor, you know. He can’t do it. He can’t leave this guy in the lurch, this guy who
seems nice enough and is just, like, you know, being reactive in the face of an
awful loss. So our guy’s still in there.
LaToya: David Boreanaz, talented. I mean, I always feel weird ‘cause obviously
people give him shit ‘cause he can’t do an Irish accent. Which, again, is better than
Holtz’s British accent, that is canon. It’s also better than Sarah Michelle Gellar’s
British accent, that is also canon. [laughs] One of the reasons I love Angel so much
is, like, I’m not saying that David Boreanaz is a better actor than Sarah Michelle
Gellar. I’m not a crazy person. [Morgan laughs] I’m just saying, he is very talented
in his own right and he gets to show so many shades of that talent here.
Morgan: Yeah. He’s great. He’s a pro, yeah.
LaToya: And with Bones…Bones is technically a two-hander but he is, like,
secondary. ‘Cause again, he is not Bones. ‘Cause Bones is the girl.
Morgan: [simultaneously] Bones is the girl, ‘cause feminism. And then Angel, of
course, cannot leave this scene remaining cool, because he immediately loudly
struggles to use his voicemail. [laughs]
LaToya: Old Man Angel, baby! [laughs] I love just Sam being like, “I owe you,
you’re a real champion.” And he’s—
Morgan: [muttering] “I don’t give a shit, oh fuck!”
LaToya: Damn, newfangled technology. And he’s like, “I think that’s your
voicemail!” [laughs] Ugh. And it’s at this point, I think it’s—
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: I think we’ve seen everyone we need to see. So we should—
Morgan: Yeah!


LaToya: Talk about who we wanna fuck.
[FUCK WATCH jingle plays]
Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing
Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing
Fuck Watch!
Morgan: Uh, I wanna fuck Jeffrey Dean Morgan. [both laugh]
LaToya: Yes. My notes: Fuck Watch, colon, gay JDM, I guess.
Morgan: But I hope he’s bi. I hope that he would be open to the overture that I
would make. I hope that he is, you know, bi plus and open to, you know…fucking
me. [laughs]
LaToya: It’s also amazing because he’s the least hot Jeffrey Dean Morgan has ever
been. And yet, still, I’m like—
Morgan: Truly.
LaToya: Give me that Jeffrey Dean Morgan. [laughs]
Kristin: I’m so sorry to interrupt you in the middle of your Fuck Watch. But
Morgan, did you just refer to yourself as an overture?
[LaToya laughs]
Morgan: I said, I’d be making an over—my overture that I would make to—like, I’d
make a little—
[laughter]
Kristin: Okay.
Morgan: Like, my little—my pass. You know? Like, when I shoot my shot, I hope
he wouldn’t be like, eugh, no thanks. Because, you know, that’s not what you want.
[laughter] Like, I hope that he would be amenable to my decent proposal.
Kristin: Got it. Cool, well, I’ll see myself out. And in case you were wondering, I’ll
take JDM’s dead boyfriend for my…Fuck Watch. [Morgan laughs] Thank you very
much.


Morgan: Congrats.
LaToya: Played by Gerard Butler.
[laughter]
[FUCK WATCH jingle plays]
Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing
Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing
Fuck Watch!
Morgan: So then back at the barge, Cordy asks Lorne if the Chrome Boys have
groins. And he says he doesn’t know ‘cause he never has known one intimately.
Cordy kicks one of them in the crotch. And hurts her foot ‘cause it makes a loud
chrome sound, ‘cause someone saw Wild, Wild West. [both laugh] She stumbles
backwards and trips through a curtain, and then is immediately pulled out through
the curtain by Gunn and Wes, in a lovely visual flourish. I would like this GIF,
please. It would please me to no end to watch it repeat over and over again, ‘cause
this is so dang cute and charming.
LaToya: The boys…save Fred and she’s like, “I could kiss you,” [Morgan giggles]
and they’re like, “okay.” [laughs] Ah, the boys. And then they both kill the prince.
And I mean, Morgan, I feel like this is where you should say “throuple.”
Morgan: I mean, throuple. But just, the thing is, I don’t think, like, Gunn or Wes
would be interested in being in a throuple with each other. I—I just don’t think
that’s a component of their friendship. [both laugh] I don’t think that is a boundary
they’re cool with crossing. [laughs]
LaToya: I also don’t think that Fred’s into a throuple either, honestly.
Morgan: [simultaneously] Yeah, Fred also does not strike me as a person who
really wants to be in a throuple. [laughs]
LaToya: Fred also clearly likes one of these boys. [laughs]
Morgan: Sorry, Wes!
LaToya: Sorry, Wes.
Morgan: You’re lovely.


LaToya: This is where the knives come out.
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: Because we’ve made it clear how we feel. [laughs]
Morgan: [simultaneously] Our allegiance is in a very specific place. Bang-bang.
Angel, you know, comes through the skylight, saves everybody. And then, we
return, post-fight. We’re still—we’re all hanging out. And Angel’s like, “Cordelia. I
should have listened to you. Like, my bad.”
LaToya: [sarcastically] What?
[Clip from episode plays]
Angel: Guys, can I say something? Money's important but it—it isn't
everything. I got—I got carried away. I just…I never had a life that was
totally dependent on me before. But that's no excuse. Where was I?
Cordelia: Money's not the most important.
Angel: No, it's not. What's important is…family. [pause] And the mission.
Morgan: The speech kind of loses a little bit of its shine and its moral clarity when
you understand that he is just staring at the big suitcase of money. [laughs] I love
it. And he looks to Cordy, the moral compass of the group, and she says, “They
tried to cut off Fred’s head, we earned every penny.” [both laugh; LaToya claps]
Fuck yes. ‘Cause sometimes, you just gotta take the money.
LaToya: Suck it, Scoobies!
Morgan: [laughs] Then, our final scene is in Angel’s room.
LaToya: So my notes are all caps for this scene. Would you like me to read this
sentence?
Morgan: Please.
LaToya: “Angel and Cordy in bed feeding Connor and falling asleep together and
talking future boat plans and ski condos and chipmunk robots on ice!” And that’s it.


Morgan: Yeah. I mean, there’s—there isn’t much more to say. They’re just so
beautiful and charming. And you know, they’re feeding Connor, Cordy sings. She
wants a—what does she want? She wants a boat. And Angel’s like, what would I do
with a boat? And she says “moonlight sails” while she’s sleepy, and something
about it is the most charming thing in the world to me and I just wanted to burst
into tears forever.
LaToya: They’re both falling asleep and she’s feeding Connor and—agh! See, we
are not discreet with who we are shipping. On this show. [laughs]
Morgan: No, we are not. Nor should we be. And they fall asleep, in bed, next to
each other. And they’re a little family, and it’s sweet. And that’s Provider.
LaToya: And just imagine. Imagine youthful me, me as a child—imagine—let’s see,
I wasn’t even 14 yet—13-year-old me.
Morgan: Oh my god.
LaToya: Watching this episode of television.
Morgan: How’d you live? [laughs]
LaToya: I didn’t!
Morgan: Fair enough. [laughs] Now speaking of you watching The WB, at age 13,
is there an episode of a WB series you might recommend to a certain brooding
vampire?
LaToya: What a great transition, Morgan. Thank you for being the one to start it.
[Morgan laughs] Hit the music.
[DUBBA-DUBBA-WB jingle plays]
Angel is a vampire
Does he even like TV?
"I think he'll like The WB."
They got that hot teen drama
To ease the pain and trauma
And here's the episode that he
Needs to see (aw yeah!)


LaToya: I scoured The WB, 20 minutes before we were originally supposed to
record this episode. [laughs] I knew I would be thirsting over Jeffrey Dean Morgan.
I know—
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: You now—
Morgan: Yeah, I did.
LaToya: Also thirsted over Jeffrey Dean Morgan. I feel…and with the concept of
what we were watching, about Angel and the mission and the money, how do we
deal, how do we deal, how do we focus? So I feel like we have to do the only
season of Supernatural that was on The WB, which is Supernatural Season 1,
Episode 2—
Morgan: Wendigo!
LaToya: [simultaneously] A little episode called…Wendigo! [both laugh] I know you
know that one. Which of course has the famous speech from Jensen Ackles—
Morgan: I’m familiar.
LaToya: Who plays Dean Winchester. Of course, the son of Jeffrey Dean Morgan’s
Papa Winchester—where he says, you know, the family business. Saving people.
Hunting things. So they’re looking for their dad, John Winchester, played by—who?
Morgan: Uh, wow, in my recollection, I think that was played by Jeffrey Dean
Morgan?
LaToya: Full circle, full circle, full circle!
Morgan: Yeah, baby!
LaToya: So you know, the Winchester boys have learned they’re on a mission. And
they’re on this mission, and it’s good. Jeffrey Dean Morgan is not actually in the
episode, but the spirit of Jeffrey Dean Morgan is there. And again, they are on a
mission to help Jeffrey Dean Morgan, much like this episode of television. And Angel
could watch it and be like, this is what happens when you raise children in this
lifestyle and maybe you should be better and probably retire, because they’re
fucked up, these children, actually. You should just become a CPA, Angel, and be


safe and don’t help people and forget the Powers. That’s the lesson you should
learn. [laughs]
Morgan: [simultaneously] There’s actually a lot in this—in early Supernatural, for
Angel to learn. I’m in. I fully agree with this.
LaToya: And there you go.
[DUBBA-DUBBA-WB jingle plays]
Angel is a vampire
Does he even like TV?
"I think he'll like The WB."
They got that hot teen drama
To ease the pain and trauma
And here's the episode that he
Needs to see (aw yeah!)
Morgan: Alright. So, in terms of plugs, you can follow us on Twitter and Instagram,
@AngelOnTopCast. You can visit angelontop.com, which will redirect you to our
Patreon, where we’re doing fun stuff. We have a new little movie watch podcast, so
we’ve already done a Down with Love episode. April’s episode is going to be Legally
Blond with me and Jenny Owen Youngs. She has never seen it, we will be correcting
this. And you can email us, if you would like to, at angelontoppodcast@gmail.com.
Also, if you want to listen to me and LaToya talk about different fictional vampires,
you can listen to our podcast, The AMPire Diaries, wherever you get your pods.
LaToya: Our next episode…is some episode called Waiting in the Wings, and I don’t
know, it’s probably not a big deal, right?
Morgan: Sounds boring. Sounds—
LaToya: Yeah. I’m sure no one’s ever talked about it. I’m sure people don’t like
that episode, even.
Morgan: To me, it doesn’t sound like it’ll be sexy, in any way. And that’s why I
kind of—I’m not interested.
[Angel On Top theme plays]

