Angel On Top
Episode 3.04: Carpe Noctem
[CHIME]
LaToya:​ Welcome back to Angel On Top, a podcast where we watch and discuss
every episode of Angel, one by one, spoiler free, and in tandem with Buffering the
Vampire Slayer. I'm your host, LaToya Ferguson. And this week, we're watching
Angel Season 3, Episode 4, Carpe Noctem. And joining me as cohost is writer and
one of my AMPire Diaries cohosts, Morgan Lutich. Carpe Noctem was written by
Scott Murphy and directed by James A. Contner. It aired on The WB on October
15th, 2001. This is the episode where Angel accidentally does a body-swap with
Ron Howard's dad.
[Angel On Top theme plays]
LaToya:​ Ah. Carpe Noctem! Morgan, are you ready to talk Carpe Noctem?
Morgan:​ I am ready to seize the night. [laughs]
LaToya:​ Oh, seize the night! Oooh! Of course, Morgan, for any people who listen to
The AMPire Diaries, or don't listen to The AMPire Diaries, I knew I needed to have
Morgan on this episode, as it is one of the horniest episodes of Angel.
Morgan:​ Happy to be here, to discuss this very, very bananas, horny episode.
[laughs]
LaToya:​ It is—I have things I didn't know I wanted to talk about, but now I have to
talk about. But before we get into your Angel origin story, I just need to note that
the official WB promos for this episode—so you know, of course, WB had, like,
official promos for everything.
Morgan:​ Mmhmm.
LaToya:​ And they also had, like, subtitles, which is what they would nickname
things. And sometimes those, like, nicknames would show up, like, in the promos
themselves. So the subtitles for the two promos they had for this episode were:
"Carpe Softem" and "Carpe Hardem." [Morgan laughs] Yes, they were two dick
jokes, is what they were.
Morgan:​ Woof! [both laugh] Wow, they knew what episode they were promoting.


LaToya:​ They knew 100% what they were promoting. And with that, Morgan. What
is your Angel origin story?
Morgan:​ So. My Angel origin story is that when I was, like, 15, the summer after
my freshman year of high school, I watched all of the B-word show. And I fell head
over heels in love with it. It was very, very important to me. And then I decided to
watch Angel, who I had found incredibly dreamy. I was, like, obsessed, in love with
him—
LaToya:​ Of course.
Morgan:​ And I was like, can't wait to watch his show. And since it was not all about
him sitting around in a room, pining for the B-word—at least not after Season 1, it
wasn't really about that anymore. I was kind of like, what's he doing? Like, doesn't
he remember the B-word exists? And also, I just kind of kept wanting the show to
be exactly the B-word. As a 15-year-old girl, I was like, remember when the show
was about a teen—like, I liked the show that was about a teenage girl. [LaToya
laughs] And this one's about an ​old man​ [LaToya laughs] who's sad all the time?
[laughs]
LaToya:​ Now that's like your preferred genre, "old man who's sad all the time."
Morgan:​ Yeah, I've since come around. Now I'm like, gimme that sad old man.
[both laugh] But, um… you know, that's the choice of a woman. And at the time, I
was merely a girl. So I am actually now in my—I've been wanting to rewatch Angel
and reassess. So I've started a series rewatch with my boyfriend, Michael Chasin.
And we are cooking through Season 1 right now, because our friend LaToya is
hosting this cool Angel podcast and we wanted to be able to listen. So I am now
cooking back through Season 1, which I'm really enjoying, now that I'm not
comparing it to anything else. But my Season 2 knowledge is nonexistent. Every
episode, I'm like, oh yeah, I kinda remember that. Like, when I watch it. So I
watched all of 3 up until now, for this recording, and I have watched, like, half of
one. So you might notice a big ol' blank spot in my memory.
LaToya:​ I don't think I'm gonna reference too much of your blank spot, so don't
worry. [Morgan laughs] What an episode. This is—[both laugh] well, first, the
Previously. So did you watch this on Hulu?
Morgan:​ I watched this on Hulu, so there were no Previouslys.
LaToya:​ Yes. I've decided I need to at least check out what the Previously situation
is on my DVDs first, before doing Hulu—


Morgan:​ Mmhmm.
LaToya:​ Just 'cause I need to know. So our Previouslys—
Morgan:​ Of course.
LaToya:​ Focus on Fred's hero worship of Angel.
Morgan:​ Aww!
LaToya:​ The Gavin Park/Lilah Morgan dynamic—
Morgan:​ Mmhmm.
LaToya:​ And of course, you know, Lilah pissing Angel off by the Cordelia play.
Morgan:​ [laughs] Woof.
LaToya:​ So that's what you need to know for this episode. That's literally it.
Morgan:​ That's great.
LaToya:​ Good.
Morgan:​ I know all that. [laughs]
LaToya:​ You're good! See? You're good.
Morgan:​ You're so sweet to me on this podcast. [both laugh]
LaToya:​ Yeah, not… on AMPire Diaries, I'm not nice to you at all. [both laugh]
Morgan:​ I'm loving this. Let's stay on this forever. [both laugh]
LaToya:​ We'll see how long it gets till I just start bullying you. [Morgan laughs] But
so we—
Morgan:​ I'll enjoy it while it lasts. [laughs]
LaToya:​ Yeah, exactly. So we open in the lobby of The Hyperion. Everyone's
chilling.


Morgan:​ Mmhmm.
LaToya:​ And then Fred shows up. And then—[laughs] so there's many times in this
episode where I, like, go full Crazy Ex-Girlfriend and ask, what man did this?!
[Morgan laughs] Because like, this episode is clearly written by a man. [laughs]
Morgan:​ Mmhmm. Yes.
LaToya:​ Fred's, um, "years in a cave starving" line about the fashion models…
[Clip from episode plays]
Fred:​ Why do girls wanna look like that? I spent years in a cave, starving,
what's their excuse?
Morgan:​ Yeah! Um, very weird and also, just like… it's always weird thinking about
writers writing to actors about their own bodies. I'm always like, is everyone
comfortable in this situation? 'Cause, like, Amy Acker is obviously, like—she is a
skinny gal. So saying that line—hope she was okay with that. [laughs]
LaToya:​ Yeah, that was my exact note. Because I'm just like, are we supposed to
be saying that Fred is emaciated? Because this is just Amy Acker's body and this is
very odd. And this is how we're starting. [laughs]
Morgan:​ Yep! Just opening right with a bang. I do wanna note that while—what
everyone is doing, that Gunn is playing GameBoy. I was ​so a
​ bout that. [laughs]
LaToya:​ I believe he's playing a GameBoy Color, so, you know.
Morgan:​ Ugh, a king.
LaToya:​ He's a man of the new millennium, you know. [both laugh]
Morgan:​ I can relate. Around this year, that is also what I was doing constantly. I
doubt he's playing a Mary Kate and Ashley mysteries GameBoy game, but
whatever.
LaToya:​ I mean, I guess he's probably, like, playing Legend of Zelda or something
like that.
Morgan:​ Cool.


LaToya:​ And as we know, Zelda is the boy.
Morgan:​ Mmhmm.
LaToya:​ But Wes is also reading a book, because he's Wes. And—
Morgan:​ Mmhmm.
LaToya:​ Basically, Cordelia—annoyed by Fred, which is understandable. Love you,
Fred, but you know. You know what she's doing. She's just like—
Morgan:​ She's a lot.
LaToya:​ "Angel's upstairs." [both laugh] And this is where Fred goes on about how
Angel, you know, is so deep. And so thoughtful. [laughs] Girl, I love you, but—
Morgan:​ [pityingly] Honey. [laughs]
LaToya:​ Enter Old Man Angel, rearing his ugly head, and by ugly I mean beautiful
head. [laughs]
Morgan:​ ​So b
​ eautiful. [laughs]
LaToya:​ Old Man Angel, who has been reading the newspaper. He reads the
newspaper a lot in this episode. [Morgan laughs] And he is so excited for the
Charlton Heston double feature at the Nu-art.
Morgan:​ Ugh. The old man energy is so strong. [both laugh]
LaToya:​ Soylent Green, Omega Man, you can't get better than that.
Morgan:​ I feel like you can! [laughs]
LaToya:​ [laughing] Not to Angel. And none of them give a shit.
Morgan:​ And I love how much he's like, "I can't believe ​I'm​ the fun one now" to
everybody. Jesus! [laughs]
LaToya:​ He gives them all crap for being homebodies now, which you know what?
He's right. He has a point. They're not doing anything.


Morgan:​ Mmhmm.
LaToya:​ They're not going out. Let's say it's a Friday night, and this is what they're
doing. [both laugh]
Morgan:​ But Fred of course is, you know, such a willing participant in all of this.
I—all of my notes are just like, "Fred's cute, Fred's cute, Fred's cute" because Amy
Acker is just so ​dang d
​ elightful. I couldn't handle it.
LaToya:​ [simultaneously] I thought you were gonna say dang cute, and then you
didn't say dang cute.
Morgan:​ See, I shocked you there. But yeah, I just—she is so cute in this scene.
And Angel is such a dumb idiot. [both laugh] Read the room, buddy!
LaToya:​ He can't read the room. He's Angel. I think about the line "how the worm
has turned" from Angel often. [laughs]
Morgan:​ [southern accent] "Am I the worm?" [both laugh] Like, I just…
LaToya:​ We're getting Morgan impressions on this podcast, yes!
Morgan:​ It's early and I'm throwing 'em in. She—yeah, she's so, so cute. Did her
time in Pylea make her forget expressions? I—[both laugh]
LaToya:​ Maybe she never heard that. Maybe she never heard that one.
Morgan:​ Fair enough. [laughs]
LaToya:​ This episode was the first time I had ever heard it, in my youth, so.
Morgan:​ Fair enough, fair enough.
LaToya:​ And then, cut to a scene that has never not disgusted me. And it's not for,
like, the flesh thing that happens at the end. [Morgan laughs] It is for all the
dialogue. It is for the fact that this dude's nips could cut through diamonds. [both
laugh]
Morgan:​ Uh, they call him "​stud​." "Can we take a breather, ​stud​?" Yikes. [laughs]
LaToya:​ I don't… I don't like it. [Morgan laughs] I had to just look it up. This
actor—


Morgan:​ Mm.
LaToya:​ His name is Paul Logan. And I just needed to read the first sentence of his
IMDB profile for you.
Morgan:​ Wonderful, can't wait.
LaToya:​ "Paul Logan, an accomplished martial artist, stuntman and actor, may be
one of the hidden jewels in the treasury of action cinema to not hit superstar
status."
Morgan:​ Oh, wow. So that's—that's very interesting. He wrote that himself, I'm
gonna take a wild stab and guess that. And he's like, look, obviously I'm not as
famous as I wanna be. But the people who know me know it's pretty crazy I'm not
famous. [laughs]
LaToya:​ It's a choice, for sure, in terms of a bio. So let's get back to the dialogue
in this scene. [laughs]
Morgan:​ Oh, please. [laughs]
LaToya:​ When he says, "So, ready for round four?" I'm very upset.
Morgan:​ Hoo!
LaToya:​ [laughs] Because I don't believe that this dude whose body it is can fuck,
but I also don't believe that Rance Howard can fuck.
Morgan:​ [laughs] Fair, fair. But also, round four! Whoof. The chafing at that point,
jeez. [laughs] We gotta go there. It's this episode, it's quite horny.
LaToya:​ It is so horny. But it also… so later we learn that these are sex workers.
Morgan:​ Mmhmm.
LaToya:​ And I think it's an interesting choice that they, like, did that, because the
whole point is that he's getting into these bodies and he's like, "I'm so young and
hot. People just want me." And then he ended up having to actually pay for sex.
But then you realize that his approach to picking up women is very bad. And that
makes sense then.


Morgan:​ Quite bad, yeah. [laughs]
LaToya:​ [laughing] It's a numbers game. It's a numbers god.
Morgan:​ Oh, god. Yeah, he's quite, quite bad at it. I felt—I felt bad for these poor
ladies. Especially because of what they witness at the end. [laughs]
LaToya:​ I feel bad for what they witness and I feel bad later when they decide, we
should shame them for their existence. [laughs]
Morgan:​ Yeah! Some not kind jokes to sex workers in general. A lot of usage of the
word "hooker" and Cordelia's "pretty skanky woman" zinger. [laughs]
LaToya:​ Again, I'm just like, what man did this? Is my reaction—I'm like, why is
this happening? [both laugh]
Morgan:​ But also, Cordy—to jump ahead, Cordy does walk into the room, like, ​so
excited to unload that zinger. [both laugh]
LaToya:​ Yes. She is so proud of herself for that, and no one heard it. [laughing]
And she's like, damnit.
Morgan:​ She came up with that in the car, she's like, "I walk in the doors, that's it!
Everybody's laughing. Gunn's laughing, Wes is laughing, Fred's rolling around on
the ground. [LaToya laughs] I am killing it!" And instead, crickets. We've all been
there.
LaToya:​ I wanna hear Cordelia's tight five. [Morgan laughs] Anyway, then this guy
starts to feel weird and he does some Latin and then his flesh just… is on the floor.
Morgan:​ He melts and it is so funny. He—it's such a rubbery effect. It's as if
suddenly all of his insides disappear and his skin turns into rubber and it just slowly
falls. And I loved it. I laughed at it hysterically.
LaToya:​ With the special effects in this episode, I get the feeling they didn't know
what it should look like. [Morgan laughs] And then, there were just like, "More.
More reds. More lights."
Morgan:​ Yes, there were a lot of, like, bright-colored lights. And oh, the way they
switch, where they just kind of, like, puke light at each other? [LaToya laughs] I
also love. It all makes me very happy. Again, dipping my toe back into this pond, I


am so comforted by the, like, B-word and Angel-level, like, fight choreography and
special effects. It does feel like coming home to me. [both laugh]
LaToya:​ So does that theme song, doesn't it?
Morgan:​ That theme song slaps. Watching it through with new—my new first-time
viewer boyfriend, Michael—he goes absolutely ham every time he hears that theme
song. He's like, "this rules, this is the best." There's a lot of head-banging in this
household during the Darling Violetta theme. [laughs]
LaToya:​ Awesome. And then we go to a scene where I relate to Fred again, which
is when she's telling Wesley about her date-not-date with Angel. I'm just like...girl,
he doesn't want you, but I get it! [laughs]
Morgan:​ Ugh, she is so sweet in this. I, like, cannot believe how adorable she is.
Like, all of the—her miming him, like, letting her share the popcorn is maybe the
cutest thing I've ever seen. I need a GIF of that, stat. [laughs]
LaToya:​ And I love that she's like, "He's sharing the popcorn," like, girl, it's just for
you, it's not for him. [laughs]
Morgan:​ Uh-huh, he doesn't eat!
LaToya:​ [laughing] Although when he does eat, later in the episode, it is the
funniest thing I've ever seen.
Morgan:​ It is great. And Cordelia's horror at it is wonderful. [both laugh]
LaToya:​ He is eating that ​entire ​scene. It is hilarious. [both laugh]
Morgan:​ It's good shit.
LaToya:​ But yeah, so this is happening. Wesley is just like—this poor guy has to
listen to this story.
Morgan:​ Yes, he is not—not amused, not into it.
LaToya:​ But meanwhile, yes, Cordy's been overhearing this. So she goes to Angel,
who's reading the newspaper again [Morgan laughs] because he's an old man. And
she's like, "You need to talk to Fred." My point about Wesley was actually gonna be
that, it's not like the first few episodes of the season, where, like, he probably


would have just been very rude to her. And I'd be like, why are you doing this?
[laughs]
Morgan:​ Mmhmm.
LaToya:​ He's actually being very sweet. But… [laughs]
Morgan:​ Yeah. He—like, he does seem—like, he does have that, like—there's that
joke where she's like, "There's none of that awkward silence, you know?" And then
there is, you know, very uncomfortable silence. And Wesley goes, "I would—I
wouldn't know, that's never happened to me." [both laugh] And I'm like,
poor—imagining Wes, like, dating is such a painful thing to think about. [laughs]
LaToya:​ Even Rogue Demon-Hunter Wesley, I wouldn't wanna date.
Morgan:​ Mm-mm. Yeah. Could we—in my Season 1 rewatch, I just—Wesley's just
come into the picture. And I am laughing hysterically every scene that he's in. But
I'm not—he's not his Season 3, like, self-assured—more—at least more self-assured
self.
LaToya:​ Yeah, for sure. [both laughing] The contrast, though, when you're
watching Season 3 to Season 1.
Morgan:​ Unreal. [both laugh] How far we've come.
LaToya:​ Ah. That's character development, baby!
Morgan:​ Yeah.
LaToya:​ Basically, Cordy's telling Angel about how Fred's been talking about their
date. And he's like, "It wasn't a date." Well, you know, Fred thinks that.
Morgan:​ Yeah.
LaToya:​ Angel calls her "enthusiastic."
Morgan:​ Ugh! Like, Angel's—he's lived a lot of life. How do you not… like, I mean,
he's oblivious 'cause he's a—like, an old man vampire who only wants to spend
time alone in a dark room, sometimes with Cordelia Chase. But, like, how do you
not know?


LaToya:​ He's very emotionally stunted. And his relationship with Buffy didn't
actually change that, because a lot of it was just, like, not telling her his feelings
and then going away for, you know, weeks at a time. [laughs]
Morgan:​ Mmhmm. [laughs]
LaToya:​ The amount of months or weeks they actually were in a relationship—like,
they defined the relationship and were boyfriend/girlfriend: not a lot.
Morgan:​ Yeah, and I just wanna let him know, like—I mean, I don't consider
myself a relationship expert. But I would stop having serious conversations in
sewers. [LaToya laughs] And that was a big note of mine for the Buffy and—the
B-word and Angel relationship, if I may. [laughs]
LaToya:​ I mean, yeah. They—it's where they felt comfortable. And you know what?
That was not good. [both laugh]
Morgan:​ Not a good sign!
LaToya:​ But yeah. Cordy points out that Fred's got the big puppy love. "I mean,
who wouldn't? You're handsome and brave and heroic." And you know what? Angel
loves it. Angel's, like, beaming at Cordy saying this.
Morgan:​ He is.
LaToya:​ And then she continues: [both laugh] "Emotionally stunted, erratic, prone
to turning evil. And let's face it, a eunuch."
Morgan:​ He—again, a man wrote this, because Angel is instantly like, "A eunuch?!
No! Who, me? Absolutely not!" Like, he's so angry at having his masculinity
threatened in any way.
LaToya:​ Well, it's also not—because this is in your blank spot.
Morgan:​ Mmhmm.
LaToya:​ So it's not even the first time he's been called a eunuch and been like,
"I'm not a eunuch!" That was in Season 2's Guys Will Be Guys, when Wesley was
posing as Angel. And the guy who hired Angel did it because he thought he was a
eunuch and wouldn't, you know, sleep with his daughter. [both laugh]
Morgan:​ Cool. [both laugh]


LaToya:​ The patriarchy.
[THE PATRIARCHY jingle plays]
The patriarchy! [thunder clap, evil laughter]
Morgan:​ Ah, the patriarchy. Lovely to have it back. [both laugh] Ever-present.
LaToya:​ And of course, Cordy says calling him a eunuch is just a figure of speech.
To which he says, "Find a better one." [both laugh]
Morgan:​ Fair enough. It is inaccurate, so.
LaToya:​ But yeah, his smile when Cordy's giving him compliments. He's like—he's
like, "aww, you think that about me?" And then it just turns. [laughs] This is a
great episode for Boreanaz, I gotta say.
Morgan:​ He's so funny in this episode. He is having such a great time, you can just
see it. Like, I mean—and it always seems like whenever he gets to play kind of
more of a variation on Angel or like, not Angel or Angelus or what-have-you. He's
always, like, so excited and you can feel it and it, like, gives the show, like, a burst
of energy—
LaToya:​ Mmhmm.
Morgan:​ And it is very present here. He's having a good time.
LaToya:​ He really is, like, the driving force of this episode that makes it, like,
less—like, it's still an uncomfortable episode to watch.
Morgan:​ Yes.
LaToya:​ But like, less so because of what he's doing. [laughs]
Morgan:​ Yeah, 'cause I think he does, like—he plays this man as, like, very
pathetic. Like, I—there's a version of this where he's, like, soo cool and he's fucking
all the ladies! But instead, he is, like, gross. And because he looks like David
Boreanaz, sometimes his grossness is easier to ignore than others. But like, I
appreciate—like, a worse show would just be like, isn't it cool that's fucking?
[LaToya laughs] And at least we don't have that. [laughs]
LaToya:​ Ew. Ew, ew, ew!


Morgan:​ I know.
LaToya:​ But yeah, Cordy tells Angel he needs to nip it in the bud, basically, with
Fred.
Morgan:​ Mmhmm.
LaToya:​ And in true Angel fashion, he wants Cordelia to do the talk. Angel! You
can't just get Cordelia to do all—like, the things you need to do.
Morgan:​ How old is Angel right now, canonically, would you say?
LaToya:​ Two hundred… fifty, or something? 250 and some change?
Morgan:​ He's 250 years old and he's scared of a girl who's, like, 90 pounds soaking
wet. Like, I—you goof! [both laugh] Fred is—I can't think of a person less
intimidating than Fred. Like, [laughs] she is the sweetest little gumdrop. How could
you be scared of a conversation with her? [both laugh]
LaToya:​ Well. You know what he's not scared of? Talking about what's happening
in the paper.
Morgan:​ Mmhmm.
LaToya:​ Which is actually something they should talk about. The guy's name is
Woodrow, AKA Woody.
Morgan:​ Yeah.
LaToya:​ Our friend from the beginning. [laughs]
Morgan:​ Hard Nips himself.
LaToya:​ Carpe Hardem. [both laugh] And then Cordelia points out something very
important, which is that they haven't been hired for this. And then I, like,
double-checked. They haven't actually done a paid case all season yet. She's right,
they need money. [laughs]
Morgan:​ Yeah. Especially with Wolfram & Hart gunning for them. It could help to
have some legitimate business.


LaToya:​ But Angel says, "No, we're not gonna deal with that, because that would
mean I have to deal with Fred. So we're gonna focus on this new case now." Fred
is, of course, just like, in awe because that's the hero she knows.
Morgan:​ Mmhmm!
LaToya:​ So he's, again, making it worse.
Morgan:​ Ugh! I know. It's like, stop being so handsome and honorable, bro. [both
laugh]
LaToya:​ Now at Wolfram & Hart, you got a Gavin and Lilah scene.
Morgan:​ Mmhmm.
LaToya:​ Gavin is still being Gavin. [laughs] He tells Lilah, "You're a tough one. I
know I'm gonna have to earn your respect. But give me a little time. You'll see I'm
a creative guy." What a dork!
Morgan:​ Yeah, an absolute dork. A very annoying, patronizing male coworker.
[both laugh] It almost, like, humanizes Lilah a little to me, to have her have to deal
with a guy at work who treats her like this. [laughs]
LaToya:​ It's like, which evil person am I gonna root for? Well, not Gavin, that's for
sure. [both laugh] And then as soon as he leaves, she's like, "We gotta get the
forger to fix this." [laughs]
Morgan:​ [laughing] Yes. Like—and especially Lilah's like, "LOL. You're coming at
him with paperwork? He's gonna murder you. Like, you should not try to handle
Angel this way." And he is not listening.
LaToya:​ Yeah, he said—she says, "He just might rip out your throat." And then
Gavin thinks [sic] "Do you think he'd do something so cliche?" and I'm like, yes.
That's Angel. At least he would say he would do that. Like, you don't know Angel at
all. You dweeb. [laughs]
Morgan:​ But he's very confident that he knows more than this woman, at least.
[laughs]
LaToya:​ Of course. She's a woman.


Morgan:​ Maybe if it was cooking or doing your hair, he'd listen to her, he'd defer to
her on that. [laughs]
LaToya:​ Honestly. He—he's not saying all that, but you know he's thinking it. So
this is where Angel Investigations realizes there have been three victims. And
they've all died at hotel suites and they've all been physically fit, to the point of
terrifying me. [both laugh] And Cordy realizes they were all members of the same
gym.
Morgan:​ Mmhmm.
LaToya:​ And then we see our beautiful team, a well-oiled machine. They all know
what they have to do, they all go to work. And poor Fred has to stay behind. And
again, I feel for Fred because that's me! [laughs]
Morgan:​ The—the quarantine vibes are strong. [laughs]
LaToya:​ So strong.
Morgan:​ Fred is safer at home. [laughs]
LaToya:​ Safer at home. Then we go to this brightly-lit gym.
Morgan:​ Cordelia is ​so h
​ orny in this scene and just—bless her for it. I love it.
LaToya:​ At least she's trying.
Morgan:​ Mmhmm.
LaToya:​ At least she's trying. Angel talks to the gym manager, who immediately
tries to sell him on a six-month trial membership for $350. [laughs]
Morgan:​ There's nothing that makes me happier than, like, seeing vampires or
magical creatures of any kind interact with, like, very mundane things about human
life. Like being, like, bullied into getting a gym membership. And just watching
Angel go through that and just be confused and at sea with that makes me very
happy. I love one old man and it is Angel. [both laugh]
LaToya:​ But yeah, Angel is talking to the guy about the case. And Angel suggests
this is the result of the gym condoning steroid abuse, so that immediately gets the
guy to let him see his records, 'cause like, no, no, no.


Morgan:​ Mmhmm.
LaToya:​ And then there's actually the point where Cordelia brings up, like,
anything green and scaly. So both of them are kinda thinking this is a Go Fish
situation at first—
Morgan:​ Right.
LaToya:​ 'Cause it is a similar flesh situation. [laughs]
Morgan:​ Ah, Go Fish, beautiful.
LaToya:​ Good times.
Morgan:​ This is also where Angel brings up Tae Bo. Correct?
LaToya:​ Yes. [both laughing] Yes, yes, yes.
[Clip from episode plays]
Gym employee: You know, I don't see anything that connects the three of them.
Except they were all in the evening Pilates class together.
Angel: Pilates, is that like Tae Bo?
Gym employee: [laughs] Yeah, if you're living in 1999.
Morgan:​ [laughs] Thinking about Angel doing Tae Bo… is good to me. Thinking
about Angel watching a Tae Bo tape, and doing it at home, like, during B-word, in
the mansion… is very good to me. [laughs]
LaToya:​ In the—yeah, in the premiere, I questioned where Angel's fighting
influence came from. But if it—like, it all came from Tae Bo?
Morgan:​ Makes sense! [laughs]
LaToya:​ It makes sense. And that's canon now, actually.
Morgan:​ Mmhmm.
LaToya:​ Angel loves Tae Bo.


Morgan:​ I'm trying to think of, like—timing-wise, I'm like… did Xander tell him
about Tae Bo?
LaToya:​ Either he would have heard about it in Sunnydale and just not
acknowledged it. Or like, he heard about it as soon as he got to Hollywood,
actually, and—
Morgan:​ Oh, yes.
LaToya:​ Doyle taught him about Tae Bo. [both laugh]
Morgan:​ Oh, thinking about them doing Tae Bo together. Ugh. Simpler times.
LaToya:​ Yeah. So Angel checks out the Pilates-slash-Tae Bo class. And that's when
he sees some shifty looking, from the retirement home across the street.
Morgan:​ Mmhmm.
LaToya:​ So he tells Cordy he's gonna go check out the retirement home.
She's—she's busy. [both laugh] You know, flirting with men.
Morgan:​ Ah. She says, "There could be follow-up questions so I'll need some
phone numbers?" [both laugh]
LaToya:​ And Angel's like, "ugh, I'll pick—come pick me up after your 'work.'" The
way he just, like, pats her on the shoulder and she had to be like, "He's just
someone I work with."
Morgan:​ Yes, he is, like, very kind of, like, possessive in this scene. And it is very
cute. Like, it is—like, he is trying to be, like, protective. And he clearly does not like
her hitting on all these hunks, but look. Dude. You're not making a move.
LaToya:​ True. And this is why they really should have noticed something was very
wrong with Angel much sooner. [both laugh] Compare and contrast, you guys.
Come on. But yeah, Angel goes to the retirement home. And he goes to a room for
Mr. Marcus Roscoe, played by Rance Howard who is the late father of
director/actor, Ron Howard.
Morgan:​ He is so great in this. He is wonderful and is so sweet.
LaToya:​ I don't know—I actually… [laughs]


Morgan:​ Oh! You disagree?
LaToya:​ [simultaneously] Don't love his performance.
Morgan:​ Okay.
LaToya:​ And I will get more into this. But I remember watching this episode for the
first time and being like, wow, that old man looks a lot like Ron Howard. [Morgan
laughs] And then realizing… that's because it's his dad.
Morgan:​ I think he has a—he has a sweetness to him that I really enjoy. Like,
I—when he—especially when he is, like, playing Angel. I enjoyed it.
LaToya:​ I mean, here's my issue with it. And it's like a similar thing I have with the
Smallville episode, Transference, which is another body-swap episode.
Morgan:​ Mmhmm.
LaToya:​ And it's between Clark and John Glover's Lionel Luther—
Morgan:​ Mmhmm.
LaToya:​ Which I think—I think Tom Welling does a very good job playing Lionel
Luther. I feel like John Glover there—who's a terrific actor—
Morgan:​ Uh-huh.
LaToya:​ Like, plays—I mean, as much as I think Clark is an idiot in Smallville. He
plays him like a lost four-year-old. [both laugh] And I mean, that might be insulting
the character and, like—'cause, you know, Clark Kent is kind of lame on Smallville,
often. [both laugh] But like, I—it's not recognizable to me as Clark Kent, you know?
Morgan:​ Mmhmm.
LaToya:​ And here, like, I just don't think what Rance is doing is recognizable to me
as Angel. Like, I could only kinda tell with certain—certain lines.
Morgan:​ Mmhmm.
LaToya:​ But like, I feel like the performance, not so much. And I think part of it is
also not playing up as much Angel having to deal with, like, humanity as an old
person who's actually—


Morgan:​ Mmhmm.
LaToya:​ Dealing with this, like, being an old person.
Morgan:​ Yeah. And with all of the, like, difficulties, ailments, aches and pains, that
come along with—not just being not a vampire anymore, but being older. And I—I
don't disagree that I think, like, there's maybe—it's not a very Angel-y
performance. But I did find it to be kind of a winning one, and for, like, a guest
actor showing up and playing on the show, it definitely felt, like, up to par for me.
But I get what you mean. It's by no means… an impression. Yeah.
LaToya:​ Yeah, I buy that, like, he's someone else in this man's body.
Morgan:​ Mmhmm.
LaToya:​ I just don't buy that he's ​Angel ​in this man's body.
Morgan:​ That's super fair.
LaToya:​ Yeah. And I mean, he's like, a guest actor, coming in and having to, like,
do an impression of, like, the star of the show who, like—who has specific cadences
and everything. You can't really replicate that too. So I'm like—
Morgan:​ Yeah.
LaToya:​ It would have been really, like, hard. Like, it's a difference between if it's
someone who's an established actor on the show, like, body-swapping with Angel—
Morgan:​ Mmhmm.
LaToya:​ And then, like, having a guest actor, you know?
Morgan:​ Yeah. And it doesn't seem, like—I guess I wonder what the process was
like. 'Cause I know—like, to talk about other, like, Joss shows. To me, one of the
best, like, "a character performing another character on a show" thing is when—on
Dollhouse. When, like, Victor gets uploaded with Topher's personality.
LaToya:​ Yeah.
Morgan:​ And Enver Gjokaj's impression of, like, Fran Kranz's performance as
Topher is, like, note perfect.


LaToya:​ Yeah. It's, uh, scary, actually. [laughs]
Morgan:​ Yeah. And they were like, yeah, I watched him do the—like, do the lines
as he would have done them and, like, did the impression as, like, accurately as I
could. So I wonder if there was a lot of, like, time for them to work together on
what the performance would look like. But I don't know. Old Man Angel's sweet. I
was worried about him. [both laugh]
LaToya:​ Aw!
Morgan:​ I've seen this episode, I know that he's fine! But I was really—I kept
being like, aww! He—he's having trouble!
LaToya:​ You're like, "I know Angel lasts pass this episode, but aw!" [both laugh] I
really do like Rance Howard's performance, like, in this initial scene, as Marcus.
Morgan:​ Mmhmm.
LaToya:​ Because, like, he keeps being, like, caught by Angel. [laughs] Like, in a
lie, and he just keeps on going.
Morgan:​ Yep.
LaToya:​ But the thing is, Angel underestimates him for, like, a strange—not
strange. But like, a different kind of version of ageism, 'cause obviously, we know
Angel is older than this man. [both laugh] But that's, like, not how it comes across.
Morgan:​ Yeah.
LaToya:​ So it's like, you're underestimating this old man when you also are an old
man. It's interesting. [both laugh]
Morgan:​ Yeah. Spy vs. Spy, but with two very old men. [both laugh] I do love his
binoculars. And I love Angel being like, "so, all that, uh, magic shit in the corner? Is
that—are we gonna talk about that?" And he's like, "oh, I just—I have old stuff."
Like. It is—[both laugh]
LaToya:​ "Occult, shmoccult!" [both laugh] What does he think that Marcus is trying
to do to him? 'Cause he doesn't think it's gonna work.


Morgan:​ Yeah, I mean, he seems to think that, like, maybe as a vampire, he'll be
immune to whatever he's been doing to humans? But Angel, like, you understand
magic. Like, it is very silly of him to completely discount this man.
LaToya:​ Right, yeah. And here—okay, here we go! [laughs]
Morgan:​ Oh, my.
LaToya:​ Cordy picks up "​Angel​" from the retirement home. [both laugh] You guys
can hear my air quotes, I'm sure.
Morgan:​ Yeah. And he is looking… ​disrespectfully.​ [both laugh]
LaToya:​ Ah. And poor Cordy, she did get grifted into a two-month trial
membership. [both laugh]
Morgan:​ But I hope she got, like, at least four phone numbers outta that. You
know?
LaToya:​ I don't think she did. [laughs]
Morgan:​ Ugh! Cordy, no!
LaToya:​ I think Angel actually ruined it for her.
Morgan:​ I want for her… to get dicked down. Just because—[both laugh] only
because it seems like it's what she wants? So.
LaToya:​ But she does not clock the weirdness of Angel. She knows
something—like, something's off with him. But she doesn't clock, clearly
body-swapped. ​And he's like, you and me. Going back to the hotel. [both laugh]
Morgan:​ I love it so, so much. And she says, "Are you alright?" and he says,
"Honey, I've never been better!" [both laugh]
LaToya:​ Like, Cordy, what do you think is happening?
Morgan:​ The idea that Angel would ever call her "honey"...how—alarm bells should
be going off now.
[AD BREAK]


LaToya:​ So they get to the hotel. He thinks it's an operating hotel, trying to get
service. [Morgan laughs] And then he sees the—their business cards and realizes
that their—it's their base of operation.
Morgan:​ Mmhmm.
LaToya:​ And then he uses his one line, which is, "Have I ever told you you're a
very ​beautiful w
​ oman?" [laughs]
Morgan:​ This is… I'd say, a terrible line.
LaToya:​ It is. It's a number games too. She laughs at him, basically, and reminds
him he has to have the talk with Fred. And then we start with the gay panic of this
episode. Which, what? [laughs] I—
Morgan:​ So much. [laughs]
LaToya:​ I think I actually blanked this part out.
Morgan:​ Mmhmm. Yeah, there's a lot of—a lot of gay panic. I mean, and I guess,
like, this guy does ​not ​know all of these people, has the—I understand the mistake
that Fred would be, like, a man's name.
LaToya:​ Mmhmm.
Morgan:​ But there is so much like, "ooooh! Gross! A boy—" like, it's—yikes.
LaToya:​ I mean, he—even in his body, he starts out with like, "I like looking at the
women.​ [laughs] Not the men."
Morgan:​ Yeah. He—and is this when he looks down at himself and he's like, "wait,
am I… oh, of course I am." [laughs]
LaToya:​ Yeah, that's it, that's the moment.
Morgan:​ Is this because of… leather pants? Is this because of being well-groomed?
Is this—
LaToya:​ [laughs] He's not even wearing the leather pants in this scene. He chooses
to wear the leather pants later. [laughs]
Morgan:​ Yeah, this guy… has some issues he needs to work out.


LaToya:​ I mean, he is a trash man.
Morgan:​ Mmhmm.
LaToya:​ Like, that is true.
Morgan:​ But you know, it's never too late to try to educate. And this guy… he's got
problems. [laughs]
LaToya:​ He does. Back at the retirement home, Marcus—which is actually
Angel—wakes up.
Morgan:​ Mmhmm.
LaToya:​ And, you know—it's where I wrote in my notes, you know, there's
something to Angel actually having to experience what an actual human old age is,
you know. And he calls the hotel and [both laugh] body-swapped Angel picks up the
phone, after going—he's like, ransacking Wes's office, by the way. [both laugh]
Morgan:​ Yes. He really makes a mess. Which, I don't know—how does he not
understand that that will have consequences? [laughs]
LaToya:​ He's not—I don't… [laughs] he's dumb.
Morgan:​ He is dumb. I know I keep—I keep asking questions where the answer is
"he's dumb." But—
LaToya:​ Yeah, I—is part of the reason he goes into, like, these, like, kinda
meathead bodies is because, like, he was a meathead when he was younger?
'Cause that explains a lot.
Morgan:​ It does seem like a chasing old youth thing. 'Cause there is this whole
thematic thing in this episode—I mean, it being named, like, Carpe Noctem, seize
the night—about the idea that Angel is not, like, living up to his potential as a
immortal hunk. Like, the idea that he has all of these things that he is not using,
you know, to take the most out of life. And yeah, I would argue that Angel's maybe
not great at cutting loose and having fun. But it's interesting. Like, this guy seems
to very much resent Angel and all of these men whose bodies—
LaToya:​ Mmhmm.


Morgan:​ He takes and destroys, for you know, having something he wants and
that he thinks he, you know, will use better. But—
LaToya:​ Yeah, that's a thing that really tracks, I think, in this episode. Like, his
resentment towards the young, which I think—that's good.
Morgan:​ Yeah.
LaToya:​ I mean, this whole episode's kind of, like, messy for the many reasons
we've said. But like, there is technically a good story in there about, like, the
chasing youth.
Morgan:​ Yeah. But I will say, it doesn't feel like the Angel side of it tracks as well.
Like, I don't—it seems like this guy is—like, this kind of, like, cosmic lesson is being
brought to Angel about, like, you—like, if you don't use it, maybe you'll lose it [both
laugh] and someone will take it from you. And I mean, it doesn't seem like Angel
has—like, suddenly is back in his body with a newfound appreciation for it. He's just
like, alright, back to the grind. Because god forbid… he have a little fun.
LaToya:​ [laughs] Well, you know what happens when Angel has fun.
Morgan:​ He loses his soul and then he becomes ​really​ fun. [both laugh]
LaToya:​ Angel as Marcus is, like, trying to call for help, but Marcus/Angel is like,
"Hey. Sorry about that." [both laugh] When David Boreanaz spells
"woman"—[laughs]
Morgan:​ What a… dirtbag. [laughs]
LaToya:​ Truly, a dirtbag.
Morgan:​ Like—and I know you do not like me to bring up Vanderpump Rules, but I
will say, Marc-Angel, as I've been calling him in my notes, has strong Jax Taylor
energy. He is a gross man. Stay away from Cordelia, and also, stay away from
everyone. Isolate yourself. [laughs]
LaToya:​ [laughing, chanting] Quarantine! Quarantine!
Morgan:​ Marc-Angel says to sweet old man Angel, "You don't have to worry about
anything except eating some nice soft foods and staying out of Ryan's way." Marcus
has a good plan. Like, he has a—he has a system in place. And, like, these poor


marks who are always trapped in his body for this period of time just don't stand a
chance.
LaToya:​ So, Cordelia still doesn't realize something's wrong with Angel. Even
though he has fallen asleep in the ransacked office. [both laugh] And she told him,
"Why didn't you go to your room?"
Morgan:​ [laughs] The joke—this joke is so funny to me. That he—it did not occur
to him he'd have a room here. [both laugh] It really—which makes me feel a little
bad for Marcus, like, going back. Like, if your theory's correct and he was, like, a
young meathead and then eventually aged out of it and maybe people stopped, you
know, treating him so kindly, because—
LaToya:​ Mmhmm.
Morgan:​ You know, he wasn't a hunk anymore. Like, how do you get smart that
late in life? And maybe it's tough. He's just trying to cling to those—those glory
days, to that himbo privilege.
LaToya:​ Yeah, I was gonna say, I can't believe we haven't called him a himbo yet
'cause that's 100% what it was.
Morgan:​ [laughs] He needed to check his himbo privilege. And it was too late for
him. [laughs]
LaToya:​ He also—yeah, he used his himbo privilege for evil, it seems.
Morgan:​ Yeah.
LaToya:​ Like, he was not one of the good himbos.
Morgan:​ Yeah. Which almost makes—I almost feel bad calling him a himbo,
because I'm like, himbos are lovely.
LaToya:​ He's just a fuckboy, is what he is. [laughs]
Morgan:​ That is for absolute sure. Yes.
LaToya:​ Yeah. And then she reminds him, "You gotta talk to Fred." And enter
Wesley, being very British. [laughs]


Morgan:​ Oh, my. Yeah, with his little tea—[laughing] his little porcelain tea kettle.
It's so cute.
LaToya:​ Ah, and then the gay panic jumps out. [Morgan laughs] He calls it "funny
stuff," Morgan. And Wesley is so confused. He is just baffled by what is happening
in this scene. [laughs]
Morgan:​ Yeah. He does not get it, and why should he? [both laugh] I also would
say it's very weird for, like, Marc-Angel, who is, you know, experiencing quite a bit
of gay panic, to turn their handshake into a hug. Like—
LaToya:​ Right, that—[laughs]
Morgan:​ You're sending mixed signals, bro. [laughs]
LaToya:​ Well, that's what Angel's doing too. [both laugh] But yeah, a firm
handshake and then he turns it into a hug. He gives Gunn a tip—
Morgan:​ [simultaneously] He is very excited—
LaToya:​ [laughing] He gives Gunn a tip.
Morgan:​ Oh my god!
LaToya:​ And Gunn keeps that tip, because… reparations.
Morgan:​ Good for Gunn. Honestly, like, I was—I was like—when I saw that, I was
like, ughh! But when Gunn's like, fine, I'm taking this, I was like, hell yeah.
LaToya:​ Marc-Angel just munches on a breakfast burrito for the rest of this scene.
Morgan:​ Mmhmm.
LaToya:​ And it is good acting. [both laugh]
Morgan:​ After the way everybody treated Gunn in the last episode, you—keep that
money!
LaToya:​ [laughing] Keep it, keep the money. I like to think—
Morgan:​ Ask for more.


LaToya:​ I like to think Angel bought him that GameBoy Color. Also reparations.
Morgan:​ [laughing] I hope so.
LaToya:​ Yeah, Cordy's like, "why are you eating?" And he's like, "'cause I'm
hungry!" Which—a thing I don't understand actually is Marc Angel not realizing,
like, his taste buds are all fucked up.
Morgan:​ Yeah. I wondered if that would matter to him, like, that he doesn't seem
to notice that. But I guess he just doesn't.
LaToya:​ And then we get the line, "Escorts? Oh, you mean hookers?" [Morgan
groans] I mean, yes, again, this episode was written by a man. But again, it's also
2001. But still! The lengths to which they go in this episode to discuss these
characters, who again, were just traumatized by flesh melting. [laughing] Like,
why?
Morgan:​ They were, like, doing their job and witnessed a horrible thing. They are
the victims here. [laughs]
LaToya:​ Terrible. And Gunn and Wesley are being gross men who are like, "​I
wanna talk to the escorts," "No, ​I​ do." Like, what do you think, they're gonna fuck
you? Are you paying them? Like, what—
Morgan:​ Yeah! Like, I—yeah, I hate that. The idea that, like, "it's gonna be a super
fun gig, talking to these, like, sex workers." [laughs]
LaToya:​ They're relaying their trauma to you! That's what's happening.
Morgan:​ Yeah, do you wanna talk to some very traumatized women who saw
dudes melt? Like, given that he called, I believe, the same number all of these
times. Is there, like, a poor woman who saw two guys melt? Who just had,
like—through the luck of the draw, went to two of these different things and saw
two dudes just melt in front of her? And if so, can I buy her a pasta dinner? [both
laugh] I feel so bad.
LaToya:​ I feel awful. [laughs]
Morgan:​ [laughing] Like, dudes be melting. On the job.
LaToya:​ [laughs] And then Cordy's like, "Are there any men who aren't just dogs?"
To which, Marc-Angel, mouth full of burrito, says— [both laugh]


[Clip from episode plays]
Angel:​ [mouth full] You know, a woman is more than a piece of meat. I'm
sorry. That's just how I feel.
[Morgan laughs]
LaToya:​ Suddenly Marc-Angel becomes a woke bae. [laughs]
Morgan:​ Wow, uh, feminism. He really just—teaching a whole clinic on it, for all of
us. [laughs] "Sorry. That's just how I feel." The—
LaToya:​ The guy with a mouth full of breakfast burrito.
Morgan:​ Oh… my god. The—the just horrible vibes, pouring off of him. Like, I—at
this point, again, how is everyone not noticing something is wrong? [both laugh]
LaToya:​ It's just, every scene—so have you guys noticed something yet? No?
Somehow?
Morgan:​ You're not enjoying all the red flags I'm waving in the air? [both laugh]
LaToya:​ Ang-Marcus… [laughs]
Morgan:​ Mmhmm!
LaToya:​ Is trying to escape. But then he gets cut off by his friend and their dumb
grandchild. [laughs]
Morgan:​ Mm!
LaToya:​ Angel holds a baby! Kind of.
Morgan:​ I did like him being charmed but confused by the baby. Like, he was like,
obviously it's lovely to hold—because I'm like, when's the last time Angel held a
baby? Like, who's giving their baby to Angel? Like, for—I don't know why, but for
some reason, I got, like, very touched and emotional about this. [both laugh]
Where I was just like, I wonder when is the last time, like, Angel held a baby. That
someone just, like, warmly, honestly—
LaToya:​ Oh!


Morgan:​ Trusted him with a baby.
LaToya:​ The Boxer Rebellion? [both laugh]
Morgan:​ Yeah!
LaToya:​ When Darla gave him that baby to eat!
Morgan:​ Yeah! Not a fond memory. Like, I just wonder, like, when the last time
someone just easily was like, oh, hold this baby for me—like, it just must have felt,
like, a level of normal that—and a level of, like, human that he doesn't feel often,
like, ever. And I just kind of, like—the way he looks at the baby, I just found, like,
very sweet. And I was like, aww. Like, I wondered if there was anything to
Angel—like, there isn't a lot of, like—Angel's never going to get to be an old man.
You know?
LaToya:​ Mmhmm.
Morgan:​ Like, he's a vampire. He's never going to be able to experience, like,
the—all of this stuff. And I guess I wanted to know more about how that felt to
him—
LaToya:​ Yeah.
Morgan:​ And what it brought up for him, emotionally—
LaToya:​ Mmhmm.
Morgan:​ And that's definitely something I was sad the episode couldn't explore.
LaToya:​ Yeah, I guess that's not as fun as what we're seeing Boreanaz do.
[Morgan laughs] But like, it's definitely interesting to—like, because you're trying to
unpack this stuff. But it's not Boreanaz playing it, which is also, I guess, why they
wouldn't wanna focus on it. It's like—
Morgan:​ Yeah.
LaToya:​ It's one thing if Boreanaz is the one, you know, dealing with that. But like,
he obviously can't—
Morgan:​ Yeah.


LaToya:​ 'Cause of the—the body swap.
Morgan:​ Yeah. But I mean, again, I—I do love crazy horndog Marc-Angel. [laughs]
So, I guess that is… that's fun. You gotta save time for that.
LaToya:​ It's worth it. And Marc-Angel is shredding all the evidence of Angel
Investigations, while drinking a martini.
Morgan:​ But I do also wanna say, like, these are like, newspaper printouts he's
shredding. And I'm like, they can print those out again. Like, it's—you're—
LaToya:​ He—no, he's an old man who doesn't understand technology. That tracks.
Morgan:​ [laughs] But he's so proud of himself and he just, like, victoriously drinks
his martini and laughs.
LaToya:​ And like, they know the information. They read it and followed up on it.
[laughs]
Morgan:​ Idiot! [both laugh]
LaToya:​ I really do actually love that. That like, this old man is just, like, very
dumb. It's like, not being dumb for, like, plot convenience. It's like, he is—like we
said. He was, like, a dumb fuckboy who aged out of it. And now he's trying to relive
that, and that's just what he is.
Morgan:​ He's like, "I refuse to adapt and, like, act my age and maybe learn
something and try to have a good life. I will instead steal young fuckboys' bodies
and continue to live my youth, over and over again." [both laugh]
LaToya:​ Yeah.
Morgan:​ Terrible!
LaToya:​ He finally meets Fred. And he tells her, you know, she's a very ​beautiful
woman.
Morgan:​ Ugh!
LaToya:​ [laughing] He has ​one​ line.


Morgan:​ Stay away from her! [laughs]
LaToya:​ He tells her to get dressed up so he can take her out on a night on the
town. This is not the talk that Cordelia wanted.
Morgan:​ He feeds her the olive! [both laugh] And he calls her sweetheart. [laughs]
[LaToya groans] Look. In all fairness to Fred. If David Boreanaz of that era said
those things to me, I would be very excited and I would go get ready for my night
on the town. [both laugh]
LaToya:​ Oh, yes. I'm in agreement.
Morgan:​ But, ugh! Just—it's awful to watch. Like, it really did, like, make a pit in
my stomach. 'Cause she—like, Amy Acker is a gift. And anyone listening to this
podcast knows that. But she is just so sweet, and to watch her be misled like this
and used, just makes me feel, like, absolutely ill. It's so sad. Like, she, right now, is
such a damsel. Like, and I—I just—I wanna keep her safe and I wanna protect her.
LaToya:​ It's pure "stay away from her, get a job," is what it is. [laughs]
Morgan:​ Yes, get a job, stay away from her.
LaToya:​ Yeah. So she goes to go get gussied up. And then enter Lilah. [both
laugh] Here to do a favor and reminding Angel that business with Cordelia was just
business. And she gives him all the forged documents, basically, 'cause she's like,
"It's not about you. It's about Gavin. Thinks he's so smart." [both laugh] He makes
her a martini—
Morgan:​ Yep!
LaToya:​ And tells her she's a very ​beautiful ​woman. [both laugh] It's—again, it's
really a numbers game. [laughs]
Morgan:​ She—and she's just like, I'll take the drink, sure! [both laugh] I do kind of
respect that. It's like, look. I'll listen to you say nice things about me and have this
drink, for sure.
LaToya:​ I mean, but she, like—she's kind of on her toes, because obviously, That
Vision Thing had her fucked up with Angel. And she doesn't wanna, like, make that
mistake again, of getting too comfortable with him and then him—
Morgan:​ Mmhmm.


LaToya:​ You know, hurting her. And that's exactly what happens here. [laughs]
Even worse this time. So Fred realizes eventually, it's not Angel, at the end of this
episode.
Morgan:​ Mmhmm.
LaToya:​ Lilah has no such realization by the end of this episode. [both laugh]
Morgan:​ Nope!
LaToya:​ She believes what happened was Angel, 100%.
Morgan:​ Yeah. She believes that they, like, made out on a desk. Which, I mean,
good for her. Like, to have a sexy, hot enemy that you, like, make out with and
then, like, run away from and scheme against. Like, she's living her best life.
[laughs]
LaToya:​ I can't wait till Michael Chasin hears this. [both laugh]
Morgan:​ Like, I mean, look—
LaToya:​ He's like, "what the fuck, Morgan?!" [both laugh]
Morgan:​ Yeah, my… sexy enemy. [laughter] Playing video games. [laughter] For
the people listening who don't know me, I do like my boyfriend. I'm not shitting on
him. [both laugh] He's my best friend.
LaToya:​ Aw!
Morgan:​ But yeah, Lilah. I… you go, girl. Like… she's evil. She's not one to aspire
to, but like, good for her that she has a sexy archenemy.
LaToya:​ And with this, at least it—unlike everyone else, basically—and, like, Fred
and Lilah, I can understand why they are not questioning what Angel's behavior is
here. Like, everyone else should be taken to task.
Morgan:​ Yeah, I mean, 'cause everyone's, like, hearing what they want to hear.
And that's, like, to a certain extent, kind of like intoxicating and you can ignore
stuff when you're like, oh well, maybe he just likes me, and like, finally it's
happening—like, does feel like kind of the vibe for the two of them. But Cordelia,
come on.


LaToya:​ Yeah.
Morgan:​ Come on.
LaToya:​ Exactly. And then back at the retirement home, Ang-Marcus [both laugh]
is trying to escape again, pulls the fire alarm. But then, mortality catches up to him
and he has a heart attack. [Morgan laughs] Angel would never have to deal with
that. And again, this is interesting stuff that we don't flesh out too much, because
we gotta get back to Angel and Lilah about to fuck. [laughs]
Morgan:​ Mmhmm. Which, to be fair, I wanted to get back to, so. [laughs]
LaToya:​ It is aggressive, what is happening.
Morgan:​ It is, but on the other hand, they are two very beautiful people. And—
LaToya:​ Oh no, I'm not saying it's aggressive in a bad way. [Morgan laughs] It is
just… objectively aggressive.
Morgan:​ It really is.
LaToya:​ Any listeners who did not, like, rewatch the episode in advance, like, just
watch this scene. Because the positioning—
Morgan:​ Mmhmm!
LaToya:​ And the force—
Morgan:​ Mmhmm!
LaToya:​ That Stephanie Romanov and David Boreanaz are using in this scene…
Morgan:​ They are ​going​ at it. And also, like, to just—to be in Lilah's shoes. You're
at your enemy's office. He's plying you with martinis, and then is like, "Don't tell
me you never thought about it." Like, she must be high-fiving a million angels. She
must be so excited. [laughs]
LaToya:​ Again, can't blame her. Then poor Fred walks in 'cause she's ready to go
out on the town with Angel, and she sees this. She's so defeated.


Morgan:​ This breaks my heart. Her little dress! With her hair down. Like, she really
did get fancy for this. And this—how dare he!
LaToya:​ [laughing] This bastard. Dude, you, like, ​just​ told her to go up—like, what
did you think?! [laughs] He doesn't think, 'cause he's dumb!
Morgan:​ Shut the door! [LaToya sighs loudly] Like, haven't you seen an episode of
Three's Company? I haven't, but I assume it's like this, right?
LaToya:​ [laughing] Not so much, but—
Morgan:​ Fair enough.
LaToya:​ It's like an episode of Happy Endings where they do a Three's Company.
Morgan:​ Yes! [laughs]
LaToya:​ So… Fred goes away, she's very sad. And then Angel, you know, being
Angel—but you know, Marcus—he does a little chomp.
Morgan:​ A little bit of a chomp, yeah. [laughs]
LaToya:​ And Lilah pushes him off 'cause, like, he's biting her.
Morgan:​ Yeah!
LaToya:​ And she's like, "What?" and she pulls out her—like, her cross, because of
course she has a cross—
Morgan:​ Smart.
LaToya:​ 'Cause she knows he's a vampire.
Morgan:​ Yeah.
LaToya:​ And he asks, "Whoa, what are you, born again all of a sudden?" 'Cause he
has no idea what's going on. [both laugh]
Morgan:​ To be fair—but I will say, like, this guy knows about magic, but not about
vampires? Like…


LaToya:​ He's so dumb. She says he'll never get this close to her again. Ouch. And
then he feels his bumpy face, he's like, "well, that's weird." [both laugh] And then
he accidentally pricks his thumb, and he's just sucking on it—
Morgan:​ [laughing] On his own teeth.
LaToya:​ [laughing] On the way to the bathroom. And then he sees—
Morgan:​ Then—yeah.
LaToya:​ No reflection and he's like, "oh, okay."
Morgan:​ Absolutely wonderful. Like, Boreanaz is so funny in this scene. [laughs]
Like, just the—playing dumb is so fun for him. You can tell.
LaToya:​ [laughing] The thumb-sucking.
Morgan:​ The thumb-sucking is brilliant.
LaToya:​ And then over at the retirement home, Ang-Marcus—
Morgan:​ Mmhmm.
LaToya:​ Has woken up from his fourth heart attack. And it's like, one more, it's not
gonna end well.
Morgan:​ Yeah.
LaToya:​ Cordelia comes in with her—her great joke that's gonna kill and there's no
one to hear. And I'm just like… I'm so happy they didn't write the scene with her
and the escorts, because—
Morgan:​ [sighing] God.
LaToya:​ What the fuck would that be? Like, I can't imagine them… she calls—like,
said "the pretty skanky woman" thing. Like, what—how would they have been
acting after what they witnessed?
Morgan:​ Yeah. They must have been, like, very, very upset and fucked up. And
Cordelia, come on. Don't judge. Let's just be sex positive and, like, all be nice.
[laughs]


LaToya:​ Yeah. It's just—and so no one is in the hotel, but then she finds a sobbing
Fred in the elevator.
Morgan:​ Her hiding in the elevator is so sad, but also cute of her.
LaToya:​ It's her own little cave.
Morgan:​ Mmhmm!
LaToya:​ And she's like, "I should have knocked." I mean, the door was open.
Morgan:​ Yeah. And she makes this comment about how—she's like, "I didn't have
a door for so long, so I forget to knock all the time." Like—[sighs] just breaking my
heart here. And like, saying like, "He called me sweetheart, but that's not real. It's
like when a waitress calls you honey, it doesn't mean you're special or anything."
LaToya:​ Woof!
Morgan:​ "It's just a word, right?" I—kill me.
LaToya:​ I wrote in my notes, "Jesus, he broke her."
Morgan:​ End my life. I can't look at this sweet, sweet girl be sad anymore. Like,
I—Amy Acker. An angel, a queen.
LaToya:​ Amy Acker, come on the pod.
Morgan:​ Come on the pod. [laughs]
LaToya:​ That's how—that's how we make these sell, right?
Morgan:​ Yes. If you just speak it into existence, it will happen. [both laugh] I'm a
firm believer in the Secret, I guess. [laughs]
LaToya:​ Oh, great. That's your new thing now. [laughs]
Morgan:​ [laughing] Yeah, I'm into the Secret now. As of this second.
LaToya:​ So Cordy thinks that they had "the talk."
Morgan:​ Mmhmm.


LaToya:​ And she's all like, you know, "I knew he was gonna fuck it up," pretty
much. [both laugh] And it's like, I know—you know, "I told him to say it." And she's
like, "You told him to make out with that woman on the desk?" [laughs]
Morgan:​ Cordelia's like, "What?!" [laughs]
LaToya:​ And then… we go to the club. It is 2001. The Chemical Brothers are
a'galaxy bouncin' all up in this club.
Morgan:​ Oh, my. [laughs]
LaToya:​ [sings tune] That is—that's Galaxy Bounce by Chemical Brothers, just so
you know.
Morgan:​ And a perfect rendition. [both laugh]
LaToya:​ I literally just wrote in my notes, "LOL, Boreanaz bopping." [both laugh]
Morgan:​ He is, he's boppin'. He's having a great time. His shirt is open… so, so
deep. [LaToya laughs] And is there embroidery on it? It seemed like there was, and
I was like, Angel owns this shirt? And I was confused.
LaToya:​ I don't know if there—there was, was there? I don't know. I was distracted
by the leather pants, again.
Morgan:​ So fair. But there is—there is some texture on, like, the top of that shirt,
up until where it is buttoned. And I was like, I don't believe Angel owns a shirt that
busy. Like, it truly is—
LaToya:​ He went shopping.
Morgan:​ I think this guy hit up Express. 'Cause that feels very—this is an Express
jewel-toned button-down.
LaToya:​ Mmhmm.
Morgan:​ That's how this happened.
LaToya:​ [sings tune] And then he eyes this woman who has a boyfriend. And the
boyfriend walks away and, like, the vibe I get is like, club owner boyfriend who's,
like, very dangerous.


Morgan:​ Yeah.
LaToya:​ That's the vibe I get from that fight, right? That's what you get?
Morgan:​ Yeah, 'cause he has, like, a bunch of boys with him.
LaToya:​ Yeah.
Morgan:​ Like, he has a whole crew. That feels—it—that feels like that, yes.
LaToya:​ So he went to the club with his girlfriend and then he is telling her she's a
very ​beautiful w
​ oman, I'm guessing. [Morgan laughs] We don't—we don't hear what
he says this time. But there is some hand-on-thigh action, and it's working this
time.
Morgan:​ There is, and look, maybe it's loud and she can barely hear him and it's a
lot of the face doing the work. [laughs]
LaToya:​ I think—because now he knows he's a vampire, 'cause he uses some of,
like, Angel's [inaudible] ability.
Morgan:​ Mmhmm.
LaToya:​ I think he's just using the "I'm a creature of the night" thing, now.
Morgan:​ Mmhmm.
LaToya:​ Using the mystique—
Morgan:​ Yeah.
LaToya:​ Instead of just being his corny-ass self. So I think that's what actually
worked.
Morgan:​ Probably, yeah. [laughs]
LaToya:​ So they go outside, do some making out. She's like, "I can't—[laughing] I
hope my boyfriend catches us 'cause that'd be hot!"
Morgan:​ Wow. Good for her. Look, she knows what she wants.


LaToya:​ Yeah, so they kiss and then he does the chomp. And the boyfriend and his
goons come out, and is like "Don't do that."
Morgan:​ [laughs] Yeah, "please stop biting my girlfriend."
LaToya:​ [laughs] "Don't make out with her either, but don't bite her."
Morgan:​ ​Definitely​ don't bite her.
LaToya:​ Marc-Angel kicks their asses 'cause, you know… vampire.
Morgan:​ Vampire strength.
LaToya:​ And they're like, "What are you on? What drugs?" Well, obviously he's a
gang member on PCP. That's what the B-word show taught us. And then he jumps
down and goes woo-hoo! Like he's a Power Ranger or something.
Morgan:​ It's so un-Angel. It's so goofy.
LaToya:​ And speaking of goofy, I think now's as good a time as any to do a Fuck
Watch.
[FUCK WATCH jingle plays]
Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing
Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing
Fuck Watch!
LaToya:​ So Morgan, you're the guest.
Morgan:​ Mmhmm.
LaToya:​ I think you should choose your Fuck Watch pick first.
Morgan:​ Um… as, um—if I may have mentioned or it might be apparent. This
episode did not get me very horny, [LaToya laughs] because ​it's​ too horny? But gun
to my head, [laughs] I would say Lilah. She's—she's having sexy make outs with
her sexy make out enemy. I'm in. [laughs]
LaToya:​ Cool. So—Lilah's a good choice, I will say.
Morgan:​ Look, she's a career woman, she knows what she wants, she gets what
she wants. [both laugh]


LaToya:​ Correct! So I'm gonna break the show by saying, honestly, [laughing] as
horny as this episode is, I can't in good conscience fuck anyone.
Morgan:​ So valid!
LaToya:​ I feel, like, wrong. I feel like there are a lot of consent problems with
anyone I wanna fuck in this episode, honestly. So sorry, Morgan. [laughing] I'm
gonna make you look bad by saying no one, 'cause I care about consent.
Morgan:​ Can I—then can I—instead of fucking Lilah, can I take Fred out to, like, a
nice dinner? And like, give her a huge bowl of pasta. [laughs]
LaToya:​ Yes. How many pasta dinners are—
Morgan:​ And talk about her feelings.
LaToya:​ How many pasta dinners do you wanna take characters in this episode out
to?
Morgan:​ I—name a character and I'll probably—I would take everyone out to a
pasta dinner. [laughs] They're all so sweet. They probably aren't eating well 'cause
they're not making any money. Alfredo sauce for everybody. You know. [both
laugh] Whatever anyone needs.
LaToya:​ [inaudible, laughing] mozzarella!
Morgan:​ Yeah. If you think I won't take Wesley out for some tortellini, you don't
know me.
LaToya:​ Fuck Watch. [both laugh]
[FUCK WATCH jingle plays]
Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing
Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing
Fuck Watch!
LaToya:​ [laughing] Ang-Marcus's friend, who unfortunately is not given a name.
Morgan:​ Mm-mm.
LaToya:​ This is a black guest actor, not given a name.


Morgan:​ Mmhmm.
LaToya:​ Credited as—let me just double-check right here… so on IMDB, it's like
"other resident." Here in the Buffy Wiki, it does say Jackson is the character's
name. So we'll say Jackson.
Morgan:​ Oh. Okay, Jackson.
LaToya:​ Played by an actor named Paul Benjamin, by the way.
Morgan:​ Mmhmm.
LaToya:​ But I don't think they, like, actually say it?
Morgan:​ And I did not hear it. [laughs] He has nice energy, though. He seems like
a sweetheart.
LaToya:​ He does. He's like—he's worried about, you know, Marcus having another
heart attack. I don't understand how Marcus has made a friend at all in this home,
because Marcus is, as we know, a piece of shit. [laughs] And I can't believe he has
anything good to say about any black person ever. [both laugh]
Morgan:​ Yeah, he doesn't have great, uh, vibes.
LaToya:​ Oh. Does he think Jackson is one of the good ones? Is that what's
happening here?
Morgan:​ He—that might be his vibe. Yeah. Ugh.
[WHITE SUPREMACY jingle plays]
You know what that sounds like to me? (What?)
White supremacy! (Oh no)
Woven in not too subtly (Ugh)
White supremacy! (Uh-uh)
Open your eyes and that's where you'll find it
Crush that (squash that)
White supremacy!
LaToya:​ Wesley is like, "I don't believe it. On my desk?" [both laugh] And then
Gunn, who—which shows again that That Old Gang of Mine was such an anomaly.
Gunn is so amused by this.


Morgan:​ Yeah.
LaToya:​ He's like, "Well, it did used to be his. He was just kinda reclaiming it."
[both laugh] Again, Gunn is—like, he thinks it's hilarious.
Morgan:​ Gunn is having a good time and he deserves it.
LaToya:​ He does. Reparations.
Morgan:​ Yes.
LaToya:​ Cordy thinks this is just like Angel, you know. Until she realizes that it was
a brunette he was making out with and not a blond. And that's when she's like,
"Oh, something's wrong." [both laugh]
Morgan:​ I loved that joke so much.
LaToya:​ It—'cause she's right, in that case usually.
Morgan:​ Mmhmm.
LaToya:​ But—okay, so here's the thing.
Morgan:​ Mmhmm.
LaToya:​ This is where she's like, "Okay, he's Angelus, right?"
Morgan:​ Mmhmm.
LaToya:​ But you guys are all smarter than this. Because like, why would Angelus
just, like, poorly—
Morgan:​ Yeah.
LaToya:​ Hang out with you guys, under cover? He would just like—he would have
killed Wesley in that one-on-one scene, if it was Angelus.
Morgan:​ Yeah, a hundred percent. And wouldn't Angelus have, like, memories of
everything that's hap—like, he wouldn't—he'd know how to act. Like, Angelus can,
like, suitably pretend to be Angel if he needs to.


LaToya:​ Angelus is smart, which is crazy, because Liam was a himbo. [both laugh]
Morgan:​ Look, he had a lot of time to get smart.
LaToya:​ And then Fred asks who's Angelus, and then Gunn explains—because you
know, last season he was the one who had to ask all the time—
Morgan:​ Mmhmm.
LaToya:​ And they had to explain, so now—now Gunn can explain.
Morgan:​ Gunn is like, "I mean, not a nice dude but cooler than Angel, for sure."
[laughs]
LaToya:​ If you find Angel hot, Fred, you're gonna find Angelus ​really​ hot. [both
laugh]
Morgan:​ So we gotta keep you away from him! [both laugh]
LaToya:​ Even though Angelus is not in this episode, I feel like the Bi for Boreanaz
jingle should go here just because of Gunn being like, "But like, Angelus is really
hot though." [both laugh]
[BI FOR BOREANAZ jingle plays]
He’s got a broody stare and hot spiky hair
If you’re straight or gay,
Your tingly feelings don’t care
You’re just being honest ‘bout this
Sexy demonic and you're…
Bi for Boreanaz
Bi for Boreanaz
Bi for Boreanaz
LaToya:​ And this is when Wes is like, "No, it's not Angelus, dummies." [laughs] It's
clearly—like, he was reading about vampires 'cause he's so stupid.
Morgan:​ That, like, it's—there are a bunch of books open to the "vampire" page.
[laughs]
LaToya:​ [laughing] Normalize senior citizens being dumb like the rest of us.
[Morgan laughs] This episode's actually great. I—I mean… [laughs]


Morgan:​ It's actually very progressive 'cause it's reminding us, like, stop, like,
assuming that all old people are wise. Some of them are real idiots. [laughs]
LaToya:​ There are tons of idiots in the greatest generation, so you gotta
acknowledge that. [both laugh] Kristin, cut whatever you need to cut from this bit.
[laughs]
Morgan:​ Kristin, cut everything I've said. [both laugh] Nice to meet you.
LaToya:​ And since we keep acknowledging Kristin, we might as well do Kristin's
Corner here too. [laughs]
[KRISTIN'S CORNER jingle plays]
Kristin's Corner! Kristin's Corner!
It's all Riley sucks and what the fuck
And horny is hot
Kristin's Corner is the place
For very deep thoughts
Kristin:​ Oh, hey everyone, it's me, Kristin. I swear, I swear—I truly swear—that
Kristin's Corner is not going to turn into the Lilah Morgan Show, although maybe
you'd be into that. But here's the deal, Lilah makes out with Angel on a desk. I
know it's not really Angel, but it's hot and I like it, and I'm not here to deny that
fact. I thought it would be really fun to give us all a martini recipe so that we can all
be our scandelous selves together in celebration of Lilah's make out with the enemy
on a desk session.
And I realized during my research that the martini is the horniest drink ever. I
found recipes for the classic dirty martini, sure, expected that. Then I found a
recipe for a wet martini, which is sweeter. Then I found a recipe for a naked
martini, which is made with no vermouth. I mean, can they get any hornier?
They're naked. They're dirty. They're wet. It gets a little less horny when you put
them all together like that. Anyway, I'm going to give us a dirty martini recipe, and
I have one for sober folks too, so that we can all be nice and dirty together, in this,
perhaps, horniest episode of Angel On Top, to ever exist.
You're going to take two and a half ounces of gin or vodka. You're going to take a
half an ounce of dry vermouth. You're going to take a half an ounce of olive brine.
And here's the deal, the garnish says two to four olives, but this is Lilah fucking
Morgan. We're gonna go with six. Now you're gonna take the sexiest rocks glass
you can find. You're gonna get your shaker, and if you don't have one, you can use
a tupperware, I won't tell anyone. You're gonna put some ice in that shaker. You're


gonna pour all of those ingredients, minus those six olives, into the shaker. And
you're gonna shake that shit like you mean it.
Now, do me a favor. Throw a few cubes in that rocks glass. Strain your martini over
that ice and throw those olives in. And listen, if you're sober, you can still get all
the dirt that you need. Take some sparkling water, put it over ice, add a splash of
that olive brine, and please include those six olives. And if you're listening, Jenny,
you can take those olives. You can put them in your 1080P pipe, and you can
smoke 'em, in HD. Hey, back to the show. [laughs]
[KRISTIN'S CORNER jingle plays]
Kristin's Corner! Kristin's Corner!
It's all Riley sucks and what the fuck
And horny is hot
Kristin's Corner is the place
For very deep thoughts
LaToya:​ Ang-Marcus is like, trying to hide and get the drop on Marc-Angel.
Morgan:​ Mmhmm.
LaToya:​ And you know, he does well except for, you know, he's in Marcus's body,
so—
Morgan:​ Mmhmm.
LaToya:​ He doesn't have the reflexes of, you know, Angel's body. Then we get, uh,
Marc-Angel saying, "Vampires don't help people, you moron! They kill them." [both
laugh]
[Clip from episode plays]
Marc-Angel: ​As far as I can tell, you are the world's worst vampire.
Vampires don't help people, you moron, they kill 'em! Here, let me show you.
Ang-Marcus: ​You may have the attitude and you may have the power. But
there's one thing you don't have and never will. Friends. Four of them
standing behind you, with big, heavy things.
LaToya:​ And they do, and they have big heavy things. And Cordelia and Fred just
beat the shit out of this guy. [laughs]


Morgan:​ It's so gratifying to watch all of them hitting him. [laughs]
LaToya:​ It's so good.
Morgan:​ It's what he deserves.
LaToya:​ Beating down the patriarchy.
Morgan:​ Goodbye, good riddance.
LaToya:​ And I love the beat—once they switch back bodies, like, Boreanaz does,
like—Angel's still in pain from the beating they just gave him. [both laugh] He's
like, aw, shit.
Morgan:​ Ow.
LaToya:​ I gotta deal with this? [both laugh]
Morgan:​ I wrote, "Angel's afterschool special-ass zingers." [both laugh] "Your
heart's weak, 'cause you don't use it." And he's like, "Lot of rage. That isn't
healthy." Like… [both laugh] Like, you, stop! You old man! These are bad. You have
to know that. [both laugh] These are not cool things to say.
LaToya:​ But you know what? He's right.
Morgan:​ He's—they're accurate things. They're just not cool! [laughs]
LaToya:​ And so they're walking off. And poor Marcus has another heart attack and
you know what they were saying about one more heart attack.
Morgan:​ Yeah, yikes! [laughs]
LaToya:​ And Ryan's all, "What's going on?" To which Angel says, "Dad's having a
bad night," as they walk out all cool-like.
Morgan:​ And like, are you—is that man just dying? [both laugh]
LaToya:​ [laughing] It's so bleak!
Morgan:​ Is a man dying as you guys walk away, like, stylistically?


LaToya:​ And that's like, we're gonna put this in the opening credits to show how
cool they are. And like, a man is dying.
Morgan:​ [laughs] We should—walking away from an old man's heart giving out.
Like, these are our heroes.
LaToya:​ It's a—it's a strange message to send, I gotta say.
Morgan:​ It is odd.
LaToya:​ And you know what? Maybe we could get a better message if Angel
watched a certain episode of television from a certain WB series.
[DUBBA-DUBBA-WB jingle plays]
Angel is a vampire
Does he even like TV?
"I think he'll ​like ​The WB."
They got that hot teen drama
To ease the pain and trauma
And here's the episode that he
Needs to see (aw yeah!)
Morgan:​ [quietly] "Angel would ​like​ The WB." [both laugh]
LaToya:​ Okay. So I'm going to suggest to Angel an episode he technically should
know very well, but doesn't.
Morgan:​ Mmhmm.
LaToya:​ And that would be—and you know what, I'm gonna… I'm ending the bit
now. [Morgan gasps] I'm ending the bit. That would be Buffy the Vampire Slayer—
Morgan:​ Oooh.
LaToya:​ Episode 3, Season 1, Witch. So Angel wasn't actually around during this
episode.
Morgan:​ Mmhmm.
LaToya:​ Because you know, he was preparing, like, what he was gonna say to
Buffy next time he saw her in Teacher's Pet.


Morgan:​ Yeah.
LaToya:​ So he was like, "What am I gonna do? Oh, I'm gonna give her my jacket.
That's what I'm gonna do."
Morgan:​ Yeah. [laughs]
LaToya:​ And that's actually a cool move. So he wasn't around to see the Amy and
her mom body-swap situation. And, you know—
Morgan:​ Mmhmm.
LaToya:​ Why someone would do something like this to someone they love—you
know, let alone, you know, a random private investigator. [laughs]
Morgan:​ Right.
LaToya:​ But you know, maybe he could understand Marcus more if he watched this
episode of Buffy.
Morgan:​ Yeah.
LaToya:​ Or you know, even talked to Buffy on—like, when they would see each
other, and be like, "So how was your week last week?" And, "Well, there was this
whole body swap thing and then I was singing Macho Man for some reason.
[laughs] And then, like, there was a cheerleader. Like, her hands went on fire."
[Morgan laughs] Like, this is why—as much as I love the Angel/Buffy relationship
in, like, the first three seasons of Buffy—
Morgan:​ Mmhmm.
LaToya:​ Like, they never had, like, real couple's conversations, you know?
Morgan:​ No. It's a very adolescent love, which makes sense for Buffy, and maybe
a little less for Angel. [both laugh] 'Cause it, like—what ​did​ they talk about?
Like...[both laugh] and this is said by a person who wants nothing more than for
them to be together forever and always. [both laugh] Like, I'm like, you guys need
to try it again. And communicate.
LaToya:​ Yeah, this could be a—like, a good starting point. Just talking about the
events of the episode Witch.


Morgan:​ Mmhmm.
LaToya:​ And maybe Angel would know how to deal with a body-swap situation like
this, if he did that.
Morgan:​ Yeah. Come on, buddy.
LaToya:​ Because this isn't the same as, like, the Buffy/Faith body swap. This is,
like, specifically the Witch body swap happening here.
Morgan:​ It is, 'cause it's a very, like, "youth is wasted on the young," "vampirism
is wasted on the boring," I guess. [laughs]
LaToya:​ So yeah, Angel, maybe watch the show you came from once or twice or
something. Or just have a conversation with Buffy, which, you know, you can do
soon.
Morgan:​ Yep. Oh, gosh. Maybe that's the first thing they talk about. [both laugh]
LaToya:​ So never mind. I guess I didn't have to tell him to do it because he does it
anyway. [Morgan laughs] Angel finally comes to talk to Fred. But she's already had
the talk with Cordelia, because again, Cordelia knew he would fuck it up, so she
just did it.
Morgan:​ I… can't. It's so cute. Thank you, Cordelia. You had a couple rough spots
with the way you talked about those sex workers, but you came through in the end.
And I love you, babe. [laughs]
LaToya:​ And then Fred says something I—that, like, really hit me hard. Because
I'm a sad person, as we all know.
Morgan:​ Mmhmm.
LaToya:​ She says, "It's like something out of Fitzgerald, the man who can have
everything but love. Well, maybe in some ways you're better off, because love is…
well, in a way it's everything. But it's also heartache and disappointment. And those
are good things to avoid."
Morgan:​ Ahhh! And this is where I have "baby!" written with, like, five Y's. Ugh!
Girl.


LaToya:​ And then Cordelia comes out to tell him, "Willow's on the line. And Buffy's
alive."
Morgan:​ Yay! [both laugh]
LaToya:​ Huzzah!
Morgan:​ I didn't realize it would be in this episode, so when it happened, I
genuinely, like, gasped and was like, [squeals]. Like, I was so happy! [both laugh]
I—um, I love Buffy. I'm so happy she's alive. [laughs]
LaToya:​ She's so happy she's alive. I'm happy she's alive. The bit is dead. [laughs]
Sorry to anyone who didn't like the bit, but it's over now, so.
Morgan:​ RIP to the bit. But… unlike the bit, Buffy is alive and I love her. [laughs]
LaToya:​ And Fred's just like, [disgustedly] "Buffy?"
Morgan:​ [laughs] "Who's this bitch?"
LaToya:​ [laughing] I mean, she doesn't say it with that much disgust, but like, you
know she's feeling it.
Morgan:​ Ugh. God.
LaToya:​ We did it. We made it through.
Morgan:​ We absolutely crushed it, in my opinion.
LaToya:​ Morgan. You got any plugs?
Morgan:​ You can find me on Twitter @lorganmutich. You can listen to the podcast I
am on with LaToya and our friend, Jill. It's called The AMPire Diaries. We cover The
Vampire Diaries. And it's super fun.
LaToya:​ And of course, you can find me on Twitter, @lafergs. I don't have an
Instagram because I'm an old woman. [Morgan laughs] And you can find this
podcast on Twitter and Instagram, @angelontopcast. Email us at
angelontoppodcast@gmail.com. You can go to angelontop.com, do all that fun stuff.
Talk to me, dance with me, as Hot Hot Heat said. [Morgan laughs] And until next
time… goodnight, Scoobies. Goodnight, Morgan.


Morgan:​ Night!
[Angel On Top theme plays]

