Angel On Top
Episode 3.14: Couplet
[CHIME]
LaToya: Welcome back to Angel On Top, a podcast where we watch and discuss
every episode of Angel, one by one, spoiler free and in tandem with our arch
nemesis, Buffering the Vampire Slayer. I’m your co-host, LaToya Ferguson, AKA the
Cordelia Chase of the Buffering verse, AKA Bones, AKA one half of the Gunn
Squad—bang, bang!—
Morgan: Bang-bang.
LaToya: Blap-blap-blap! [Morgan laughs] AKA Theodore K. Mullins, AKA Gilly, AKA
lover of long winded bits.
Morgan: And I'm your co-host, Morgan Lutich, AKA the Winifred Burkle of the
Buffering verse, AKA also Bones, AKA the other half of the Gunn Squad—bang,
bang, blap, blap—[LaToya laughs] AKA Frank Scabopolis. [laughs] AKA sorry! AKA
also a lover of long winded bits.
LaToya: And this week, we’re watching Angel Season 3, Episode 14, Couplet.
Couplet was written by Tim Minear and Jeffrey Bell, and directed by Tim Minear. It
aired on The WB on February 18th, 2002.
Morgan: And this is the one where the Groosalugg’s sudden return leaves Angel
feeling petty, just as Gunn and Fred’s burgeoning romance causes Wes to feel on
the outs.
[Angel On Top theme plays]
LaToya: Previously on Angel! Angel’s son is part of the prophecy. Everyone and
everything will be coming for him. “I meant the baby.” “I meant the hot mama.”
[Morgan laughs] Wes sees Fred and Gunn smooch. Kyrumption! Pylea! Princess
Cordelia, Pylea. She has to com-shuck with the Groosalugg. Sounds dirty if you ask
me. [Morgan giggles] If they com-shuck, her visions will pass onto him! So no
can-do. Angel has feelings for Cordy and Lorne tells him to tell her. “You don’t
wanna miss that shot.” He misses that shot after they were possessed and hooking
up, because Groo is here. But Fred thought for sure they were meant to be
together. Aww.
Morgan: Aww.


LaToya: We open on adorable baby Connor. It is the night of Waiting in the Wings,
so Angel’s just looking at his baby. Lorne joins him. Now Angel is talking about, “I
remember him being taller.” Not talking about the baby, talking about the
Groosalugg. He’s already petty-Angel’ing all over the place.
Morgan: He really is.
LaToya: And there is also possibly a penis joke in there. [both laugh]
Morgan: Yeah, quite possibly. It is, um—it is a bummer. He is already there and
ready to be petty. And Lorne, like, is truly, like, the MVP of this episode in terms of
just being a true friend and, like, such a good bro. Because he babysits and he tells
Angel, like, all of the things I think a good friend, you know, needs to tell you.
Which is like, he’s like, hey, so. Let’s cut the bullshit, I can smell Cordelia’s perfume
on you. Something’s happening. And Angel’s like, no, no, no, no. I—nothing. I like
being alone. But Lorne doesn’t buy it and he’s—I appreciate the—again, this—the
way that this season, like, Angel’s a person who can have friends that can, like,
gently push back and do stuff. Like, that is not the man who wants to sit alone in
the dark that we knew from Season 1. And I just—I find him infinitely more
interesting like this. And I’m glad to have a—just, like, a more realized, more able
to interact with other people, open to loving relationships with other people, like,
even if they’re just friends, Angel. And that’s why I think it’s so hard, ‘cause he’s
actually opened himself up to this and now he has to watch Cordelia choose
someone else.
LaToya: Yeah, he tells Lorne, “You were right, Cordelia deserves a champion. Now
she’s got one.”
Morgan: [groans]
LaToya: Aww. And he says, “I’m fine, I’ve been a solo act most of my [laughs]
240-plus years.” And you know, when he’s with someone, it never turns out well,
so.
Morgan: Yeah, fair—
LaToya: I mean, he has a point on that, yeah. [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah, but it doesn’t stop him from going back for another sniff of his
jacket once Lorne’s gone. [both laugh] Little freak. [both laugh]


LaToya: Yeah, I’m like, Angel, don’t be a creep and sniff her perfume. [both laugh]
Morgan: Don’t—just…has anyone ever sniffed something not creepily? I think that
might just be an—is sniffing an inherently creepy thing? I don’t have the answer.
But I’m wondering, is it inherently creepy?
LaToya: Those scratch-and-sniff stickers, they normalized sniffing and they
shouldn’t have.
Morgan: Yeah, maybe that was where we all went wrong. [both laugh]
LaToya: That was it, that was the key.
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: Back at Cordy’s, Groo’s telling Cordelia what happened in Pylea.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Endless committees were formed. Committees splintered into factions.
Factions turned into coalitions—
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Coalitions turned into subcommittees. [Morgan laughs] And finally, the
more radical element, spurred by a charismatic leader, did the dance of revolution.
First of all, Gunn warned him this would happen.
Morgan: Mmhmm! [laughs]
LaToya: Second of all, like, with my 2021 brain, I’m like, this is—like, this entire
dialogue is, like, spin-off?
Morgan: [laughs] Oh, yeah. A Pylean coup season? Yeah, I would watch that
mini-series, for fucking sure.
LaToya: But there was never anyone else, it was just his princess.
Morgan: Mmhmm!
LaToya: Which I’m sure makes Kristin wanna vomit.


Morgan: Yeah, I’m sure. For the listener, Kristin has stated in public her negative,
negative opinions on the Groosalugg. And we are going to provoke her repeatedly
until she comes on mic to yell her opinions at us. I anticipate it getting pretty
brutal. [both laugh]
LaToya: But yeah, he says that she took his heart with her.
Morgan: Mmhmm!
LaToya: And they’re, you know—they’re being cute and kissing and it’s close-up
and I write in my notes, “LOL, his wig.”
Morgan: Oh, yeah. The wig is silly, but here’s the thing. I prefer it. [LaToya
laughs] I don’t really like the modern Angel haircut. I think part of his appeal is that
he’s, like, a He-Man character.
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: I, like—I mean, maybe that’s just because, like, I’m a huge Lord of the
Rings, D&D nerd in general. And I’m just like, this is part of the fantasy. Like, part
of it is that, like, Cordelia lives in this other worldly kind of zone with all of the
vampires and demons that are around her. And it’s like, what if you got the, like,
lovely version of that, which is like, the hot warrior with the long hair, and I’m the
princess and the, like, elegant dress. Like, as opposed to, you know, wiping guts off
yourself all the time and having head splitting visions. So I feel like Groo cutting his
hair and, like, becoming, you know, Angel 2.0—it makes him less appealing to me.
‘Cause it feels less authentic to me.
LaToya: I mean, yeah, obviously you have—as the bit, the happy medium is him
with the modern clothes but like, he just has his hair up in a bun or a ponytail.
There you go.
Morgan: Ah, yeah. Would love Man-bun Groosalugg. [both laugh]
LaToya: I decided just to say “bun” because we shouldn’t gender buns.
Morgan: You know what, you’re correct. Strike it from the record. [laughs] So
then, they do a little smooch. It’s very tender. And then she pulls back and
suddenly, in Groo’s place, is a big, black, gooey monster with, like, spiny, pointy
bones sticking out. Which, um…kind of a mood killer. [laughs]


LaToya: Just a cool thing about her visions now. [both laugh] Watching this with
subtitles, every time Connor makes a sound, it just—it says, in brackets, “cooing.”
Morgan: Aww!
LaToya: Wes is the first one at work. Angel, of course, is fishing to see where
Cordy is and—
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: You know, she’s been probably up all night with Groo. But he’s, like, just
talking about, like, catching up. But you know, Angel—where his mind is.
Morgan: Oh, yeah. I mean, yeah, his filthy mind’s in the gutter. And Wes is like,
“Well, it’s good that you’re here ‘cause I wanna talk alone.”
[Clip from episode plays]
Wesley: It's the fact of him. I know his sudden arrival was something we all
needed a moment to digest. Still, there are questions.
Angel: You're suspicious.
Wesley: “Cautious” might be a better word.
Angel: You think he's evil.
Wesley: Evil?
Angel: Okay, maybe not evil, but he's definitely hiding something.
Morgan: And then Wes reveals he’s actually not talking about Groo. He’s talking
about Connor, who he reminds Angel, somewhat gently, shouldn’t exist. Dangerous
territory there. Like, Wes must be looking to be punished. Maybe that’s part of his,
like, garbage mood that he’s in right now, because I don’t think—
LaToya: I don’t—
Morgan: It’s not that I don’t think this is a genuine and honest complaint. But I
don’t think you should ever say to any parent who, like, loves their child that their
kid shouldn’t exist.


LaToya: But in this case, his kid shouldn’t exist and this is a literal thing. And the
thing is, Wes is throwing himself into his work with the Nyazian scrolls because of
the Gunn/Fred situation. And that’s why, like, he’s the first one at work, he’s like,
going headfirst into this, and we’ll see how that progresses. So it’s just that. It’s
just—I don’t think he’s trying to talk shit, get hit.
Morgan: Oh gosh, no. I’m just, like—like, my fight or flight response kicked in,
where I was like, you should—you be careful. [laughs] Like, Angel has proved that
he can be very defensive of Connor and you know, rightly so. That’s his little guy.
But yeah, so he says, “We don’t know what role he’s going to be—he’s going to
play.” And Wes says, “We can’t be afraid to ask questions.” Which I think is fair.
LaToya: Yeah, but Wes is like, “I just want to keep you involved.” To which Angel
says, “Of course, I wanna stay in the loop.” So. Note—just note that. Angel wants
to stay in the loop with whatever Wes is, you know, researching. Write that in your
Shanshu prophecies.
Morgan: Hope it’s good. Hope the things he finds out are positive. [laughs]
LaToya: Yep. Hope they’re not gonna ruin anything. [laughs]
Morgan: But yeah, I’m sure it’ll be great. So Cordy and Groo arrive, and Groo does
a bunch of swordplay. And Angel is instantly annoyed that his weapons are being
used by this, you know, big, hunky guy who isn’t him. And Cordy admits to all of
them that she and Groo couldn’t really, like, do anything beyond kissing last night,
because of her vision.
LaToya: Yeah, she doesn’t wanna lose her virginity. Which, that entire scene is
great. ‘Cause Wesley, point-blank, asks her, “Why can’t you have sex?” Not—he
just—he is not afraid to go there. [laughs] Because she would lose her virginity.
[both laugh] And he says, if you wanna play it that way—[laughs]
Morgan: I screamed out loud at Wes’s response to that. I was like, that is—alright,
look, he’s going there. [laughs] I love when they’re all in each other’s business.
Like, this truly does feel like a fun little, like, sitcom subplot scene, where it’s like,
Cordy’s having trouble getting laid. And the guys are all making their little witty
comments about it. And I’m like, I love this episode of New Girl. Like, A plus.
LaToya: I mean, our girl is horny and purring and the boys are awkward. [laughs]
Morgan: Which, you know, seems very true to everybody’s characters. And she’s
like, yeah. She’s like, I’m worried that if we, like—like, I know the deal was that if


we had sex in Pylea, I would lose my visions, but what if that happens if we do it
here? And Angel’s like, “Yeah, looks like you can’t have sex. Looks like, uh, you just
shouldn't do it.” [laughs] What is with this show and imposing celibacy on people
for magical reasons? [both laugh] Let people fuck. [laughs]
LaToya: They fuck as much as they can on The WB. [laughs]
Morgan: Fair enough, fair enough. So yeah, Cordy’s horny as hell and she asks if
it’s possible to come without shocking. And I’m not sure. [laughs] But yeah, Angel
and Wes are deeply uncomfortable as Groo just swords away. And Wes suggests a
paranormal prophylactic? Possibly?
LaToya: Which for Angel’s sake, she thankfully ignores. Yeah, Angel is just, like,
smiling painfully throughout this scene and this episode.
Morgan: Yeah. It’s interesting. Like, the ways that Angel relates to being on the
outs. Like, you know, obviously this is like, there are two couples in this episode.
And they are We—um, Gunn and Fred, and Groo and Cordy. And Wes is on the
outside of the Gunn and Fred thing and Angel’s on the outside of the Groo and
Cordy thing. Which oddly, ends up making Angel and Wes kind of a couple,
inherently, in that they are, you know, both in the same situation and, like, kind of
only have each other to turn to, to deal with it. But it’s…it’s interesting to see the
differences in how Angel handles it versus how Wes handles it. Like, Angel is
technically, like, being more of a dick verbally, you know—in that he’s just like,
ugh. Like, this guy sucks. Like, don’t we—like, isn’t he shorter now? Like, why is
wearing my shirt? Like, all this stuff. But Angel seems to be saying the things that
he’s feeling, for the most part, whereas Wes seems to be stewing, which is
worrisome. [laughs]
LaToya: Yeah, he’s letting it fester. And it’s not manifesting well at all.
Morgan: Yeah, this makes me nervous. Like, I think in—we talked about Waiting in
the Wings and kind of him having this…the show seems to really want to make a
meal of how bad Wes feels, you know, that Fred didn’t pick him. And, like, I get it.
That’s a valid thing to be upset about and that’s a true thing that happens and
sometimes, you know, the people we like don’t like us and it’s sad and it sucks. But
I just hope that—I don’t, like, really remember how it moves forward throughout
the season—that eventually we can stop telling stories about how sad Wes is. And
start telling stories about how happy, interesting, complicated, like, Fred and Gunn
feel about their new exciting relationship? ‘Cause I don’t kind of care. Like, this isn’t
about Wes to me. And I’m slightly starting to resent having so much of the story
weight around this be about him.


LaToya: Yeah. So I—which is gonna be our next scene. I was trying to find out,
like, where the diner was that Fred and Gunn go to in this episode.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: I just assumed it’s Santa Monica ‘cause, you know, this show and
geography.
Morgan: Mmhmm. [laughs]
LaToya: And I saw, you know, some Fred and Gunn threads on an Angel reddit.
Morgan: Ooh.
LaToya: One of which is basically just about how Gunn and Fred were a toxic
pairing. And I read it and I’m like, this is insane. And thankfully—
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: All the replies were like, “I disagree with this completely.” [laughs]
Morgan: Okay, thank goodness. [laughs] This universe tells stories about male
entitlement. Whether it is Xander feeling entitled to Buffy’s attentions. Whether it is
the stuff with the Trio in Season 6 and, you know, the fact that they feel like they
are owed some kind of narrative around themselves being, you know, the nerds,
like, you know, becoming…supreme or whatever. And now with Wes. And I think
these are fair stories. And with Xander, I feel like it makes the most sense because
he is a child when we start out? And, you know—
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: Teenage boys do immature things and that’s, like, a valid thing to
explore. And we all feel emotions that are, like, icky and ugly. And I don’t begrudge
anyone—that, like, feeling. But I don’t know how much I want to have to
sympathize with Wes being angry that a girl didn’t choose him, and Wes being sad
a girl didn’t choose him, when she chose someone who was kind to her and, like we
said, made a move and went through it. Like, Wes, at the end of the day, grow up,
honey. [laughs]
LaToya: Seriously.


Morgan: Like…yeah.
LaToya: And again, it’s what I said last episode about how just experiencing
fandom—just, like, seeing little bits. And it’s just like, the entitlement people felt
that Wesley had to Fred when—and, like, just dismissing Gunn’s presence in that.
Morgan: Yeah, and it’s—it’s—but—and I think, like, that fandom can’t have that
reaction unless the material lends credence to that—
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: And by dramatizing so much of, like, Wes having to be, like, “ugh, I’m sad
about it.” Like, it’s like, okay, we get it. But at the same time, you’re an adult and I
mean…she didn’t pick you, dude. Like. I’m sorry and that sucks and that’s no fun.
But it’s the reality of what happened and at a certain point, like, you gotta honor
people’s choices. [laughs]
LaToya: And to talk about the scene with Fred and Gunn at the diner, Fred doesn’t
even seem to think that Wes had feelings for her, in the first place.
Morgan: No, yes, and let’s get into that diner scene, because boy-dang. We end
the scene we were just talking about with Cordy being like, “Well, at least I’m, like,
not alone ‘cause no one else is getting any.” Cut to Gunn looking at Fred, truly
making eyes as she eats. And he is just so enamored with her and she is so cute.
And she’s just, like, shining under his gaze. And it’s truly, like, such a lovely, warm
thing. Gunn says that he loves watching her eat, which is very cute ‘cause she does
do it very adorably. And Fred is so—she’s, like, shy. She’s, like, I don’t know. Like,
she feels like she’s really inexperienced.
[Clip from episode plays]
Fred: [giggles] I'm sorry. I'm being ridiculous, I know. It's just, I don't have
a lot of experience in this area. I spent the last five years in a cave.
Gunn: Yeah, I know what that's like.
Fred: How could you?
Gunn: Because now, everything's so bright my eyes hurt.
Morgan: Kill me. [LaToya laughs] I’m dying. I’m dead. [laughs]


LaToya: They’re, um, cute.
Morgan: It’s just so much.
LaToya: We know they’ve been eating breakfast. They’ve been doing this for
weeks now. Again, Wesley, you weren’t in the game. [laughs]
Morgan: Again, it is so clear that they have, like, a foundation for this and that this
is, like, a very warranted next step in a process between the two of them. And it’s
just really sweet and I love them, and they are so warm. And this made me want
breakfast food so much, so I did order breakfast food for dinner this night. And I do
wanna thank this episode for that. [both laugh]
LaToya: Thanks, Angel. You did it again. They’re about to smooch, but Wesley
beeps them.
Morgan: Do you—LaToya, do you think it’s maybe time for the jingle? A certain
little song to show how we appreciate…Mr. Charles Gunn?
LaToya: Perhaps. Let’s play it.
[GUNN jingle plays]
Check that tux, check that bod—
LaToya: Cut the music!
[song fades out]
Morgan: Maybe not yet. I think we have—we have a moment later that I think
is—it’s really gonna earn that jingle.
LaToya: Sorry, gang, but like, later. It’s okay. Don’t worry.
Morgan: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
LaToya: We’ll play it. [both laugh] Of course we’re gonna play it, come on.
Blap-blap!
Morgan: [laughs] Bang-bang! So our next scene’s in the lobby. The demon’s called
a Senih'd?
LaToya: It really doesn’t matter what this demon is called. [laughs] Who cares?


Morgan: I know.
LaToya: What’s its deal? Nope, it doesn’t matter.
Morgan: Yeah. And it’s described that it’s, like, gonna go to mid-city to feed. And I
was like, okay, that can be, like, kind of a nice area. And—
LaToya: Even though—yeah, I’m—so they say it’s in Sorensen Park, which is in
Whittier.
Morgan: [laughs] Okay. [both laugh] Good god. So Groo’s like, you know what? I
actually recognize this demon from Pylea. Like, it’s simple to track but it is hard to
kill. Angel is rolling his eyes.
LaToya: [simultaneously] It’s not even the Pylean demon. It’s similar, so he’s just
like—
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: “That’s probably the same.” [laughs] Ya lunkhead. [both laugh]
Morgan: It could be different, but I just love how annoyed—Angel’s like, “yeah,
yeah, yeah, he’s a big fucking hero who’s done it all before.” And I’m like, Angel,
he—he’s nice! Like…[laughs] all he’s doing is being helpful. And—
LaToya: But Morgan, he’s a roadblock to love. [both laugh]
Morgan: But hey, if we’re gonna—if we’re going to hold Wes’s feet to the fire, I do
think we also have to hold Angel’s feet to the fire. He didn’t make the move.
LaToya: He tried to make the move. [laughs] And every time he tried, Cordelia’s
like, oh, so I’m, like, stupid and hideous? [both laughing] And he’s like, no, it’s not
what I’m saying!
Morgan: It’s so funny that, like, Charisma Carpenter, the most, like, beautiful
woman in the world has to keep being like, “So I’m garbage that you’d never
touch?!” And I’m like…no? [both laugh] This is comedy? [both laugh]
LaToya: But yeah, you do have Gunn and Fred being cute, holding the book, and
Wes clearly being furious at them. [both laugh]


Morgan: How dare they gently hand the book from one to the other? So Wes
assigns Angel and Groo to work together. Which Angel does not like. [laughs]
LaToya: Wesley just misses signs, obviously. ‘Cause Angel’s like, basically trying to
open up to him about how much he hates Groo. [laughs] And Wes is like, what? I’m
missing out completely.
Morgan: No thoughts, only work, only mission. [both laughs] I—and Angel says
he’s worried that Groo’s gonna slow him down because he’s bulky. [laughing] And
I’m like…stop being jealous of his hunky muscles. [LaToya laughs] Which…hunky
muscles. Like, Groo is giving us himbo excellence in this episode. I will bring up
moments later in the ep, but look, even Angel has noticed. The guy’s built. [laughs]
And he says he can’t wait to give Cordelia the head of the demon. [both laugh] He’s
like, “I will cut off the head and I will present it to my princess.” And Angel’s like,
“Yeah, I’m sure she’ll really like that.” [laughs]
LaToya: What if she does, Angel? What if she does? So he gets Angel’s favorite
broadsword while Angel gets the small axe. [both laugh]
Morgan: Which Cordelia just kind of, like, gives—like, truly—
LaToya: “Here, take this.”
Morgan: Like, Cordy’s got eyes for Groo and Groo alone. Like, ultimately, we can
all talk about shipping until we’re blue in the face. But I must say that I
always—despite what, you know, my heart specifically wants—when a character is
dramatized as wanting someone and they have them, I kind of can’t be that mad
usually. And I’m like, Cordy wants Groo and she’s with him. Like, maybe there’ll be
time for Cordy and Angel another moment, but right now, she is with someone who
she’s happy to be with. And I think that’s really excellent, and I want that for her
and she deserves that.
LaToya: I will push back on that a little, but like, in the future. Not right now.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Yeah. Later in the episode.
Morgan: Can’t wait. But yeah, right now, Cordy seems so happy and I just want
her to be happy. And again, as I said in the last episode…she’s gotta have sex with
someone who’s not Xander. [LaToya laughs] Please, god. Please—


LaToya: Well, she didn’t even have sex with Xander. ‘Cause he lost his virginity to
Faith.
Morgan: Oh, god! They didn’t even bang? Ugh. Well, okay, good. I mean, good for
Cordy. But also, like, she’s gotta be in a loving relationship with someone who’s not
Xander. [both laugh] Our next scene’s in the sewer. Angel and Groo are there. Groo
is sensing that Cordelia’s really sad.
LaToya: Yeah—
Morgan: He, like, knows something’s not right, which, aww!
LaToya: And Angel can’t help but make him feel better because he’s a good guy.
Take notes, Wesley.
Morgan: This is the thing which, like, first big difference between the two of them.
Angel says, “She’s not sad you’re here. Like, she’s thrilled.” Like, he…he doesn’t
wanna encourage a lie, which is good. Thumbs up. Like, again, you don’t have to
make them kiss. But you also don’t have to keep them apart. So Angel’s doing
good. I’m proud of him here. Even if he’s petty a lot, he’s being a good boy here.
LaToya: Yeah, and he says, “Maybe she’s, you know, afraid to get too close.” And
he’s obviously talking about himself, with her.
Morgan: Yeah. And Angel kind of explains, like, she’s worried by being with you,
she could lose something. Which I think is, like, a way to be honest with him and
helpful, but also not necessarily, like, betray Cordelia’s trust and, like, private stuff.
Which again, like, good being a good friend. Like, Angel is being a good friend,
which I think is also something that's, like, loving and romantic to do to someone.
Because, you know, if you’re with someone, they should also be your friend. So
then, we see some blood in the sewer, which, like—I was like, Angel did not need
help at this point. Until later, when he did need help. I was like, this guy is very
easy to find. So they track him through the blood. We have a big punchy fight. And
then, this monster is pushed through a wall and out into the sun. Angel stays in the
dark and watches Groo save this damsel and kill the demon. Which, like, turns to
goo, Alex Mack-style. [both laugh] And then disappears into a puddle. And Angel
just has to watch from the shadows and be sad.
LaToya: Everyone celebrates Groo, everyone in the park. They see that another
LA—seeing something just disappear before them, and this is not them reacting
like, “what the fuck?” It’s like, “yay! You made the thing disappear!” [laughs]


Morgan: Huh? Like…[laughs] were I in a local Los Angeles park, walking around,
and I saw the Senih'd or whatever. And it got stabbed and turned into goo, which
then dissolved, I would maybe not be cheering. I would maybe be running away or
[both laugh] getting the fuck out of there. But—
LaToya: Get out of there before the Men in Black find you. [laughs]
Morgan: Absolutely. I don’t wanna get neuralized. I don’t have time for that.
[laughing] To each their own, I suppose.
LaToya: But yeah, Wesley sees poor Angel. And he still doesn’t get it. [laughs]
Morgan: It’s—’cause I think he’s honestly, like, too wrapped up in his own, like,
pain.
LaToya: I mean, we know that both Lorne and Fred are aware of Angel’s feelings
for Cordelia.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Wesley hasn’t seemed to realize that. Gunn, I don’t think cares.
Morgan: Yeah. I think he’s like, that’s their business. Which, fair enough. [both
laugh] Like, yeah, stay out of it. I mean, I think we’ve made it clear, we don’t think
Wes necessarily is like, the highest romantic intelligence IQ? You know, seen by the
“is that a woman in pain?” sounds. [both laugh] Never forget. So I do think
it’s—like, it doesn’t come naturally, maybe, to him to read stuff like this. And I think
he might just, like, not have a lot of, like, healthy experience and attitudes towards
women? Like, and I don’t mean this as, like, a hugely critical statement. Like, I
think—I don’t think he’s a bad person. I think he’s just, like, still figuring some stuff
out and still dealing with some, like, bad stuff he’s internalized and, like, finding
himself in that arena?
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: And like, I don’t know, like, sometimes that stuff takes you a little longer
to figure out. And, like, as long as you’re not doing anything harmful while you
take, you know, your personal journey that you need to take, I suppose that’s
alright, yeah. It’s just—it can be kind of, like, painful to watch. Anyways, our next
scene is in the office in the lobby. Angel’s talking to a prospective client whose
fiance of eight years has cheated, with what she assumes must be a witch. I write
in my notes, “Sure, Jan.” Mmm. [laughs]


LaToya: It’s a good bit. First of all, we got a client post-Provider, so we are
bringing the clients in still. That’s good.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: But I do love how this, like—it’s clearly nonsense and it ends up not being
nonsense.
Morgan: I think this is—this, like, bait and switch is so well done. Because I
immediately was like, okay, obviously this woman’s, like—like, doesn’t know what’s
going on and, like, is clueless.
LaToya: “My fiance of eight years!”
Morgan: I was like—
LaToya: There’s no reason they would leave me. [laughs]
Morgan: Fiance of eight years? And I was like, honey. [both laugh] I’ve heard of
the five-year engagement, but this? [laughs] Yeah, truly. It’s—that’s a long time
and that is a red flag. I do hope that, once she and this guy kind of are reunited
after this traumatic event, that maybe they have a talk about some things and kind
of see where things are at. ‘Cause that doesn’t sound like a good sign to me.
[laughs]
LaToya: Rooting for her. Meanwhile, Wes is on the phone. He’s looking for a text,
like, in the original Greek. And it’s like, Nyazian-adjacent, at least. ‘Cause they were
looking for, like, scholarly texts, obviously. ‘Cause other people would have done
work on the Nyazian scrolls.
Morgan: And while he is doing this, he…
LaToya: This is…this is—high chief incel behavior, is what is happening here.
Morgan: I will say, this is, like, the most troubling—probably the most troubling
Wes moment of the episode, where he, like, essentially shifts his weight and leans
back, so he can just look at Fred, with like, Gunn obscured by a column. And he can
just, like, watch her smile and laugh. And, like…a twelve-year-old boy doing that, I
would be like, of course, yeah. Wes, you’re an adult man. And—
LaToya: That’s some Count Kurskov shit!


Morgan: Yeah! Don’t make me punch you right in your jewel. It’s very transparent,
we know what he’s doing. And, uh, yeah. I don’t like it. It made me feel really
yucky.
LaToya: But yeah, meanwhile, a very angry lady—as I have in my notes. It’s Ms.
Frakes. She’s like, “Here is the username of the woman—the witch.
HotBlonde37159.” [laughs] She went into her fiance’s email to find this out. What a
healthy relationship.
Morgan: I’m changing my Twitter display name, when this comes out, to
HotBlonde3715, obviously.
LaToya: 1-5-9.
Morgan: Oh, 1-5-9. Oh, thank you. 37159, popping that in my notes [LaToya
laughs] for future reference. And Wes is like, you know, I have just the person to
help you. I was just, you know, hiding him behind a column so that I could look at
a woman. And he assigns Gunn to this lady, but—
LaToya: To what is—it seems to be an obvious wild goose chase. But Gunn is still
like, of course I’m gonna do this. He would have no reason to think this isn’t a legit
situation. He wants to do the work. I think maybe we should play his jingle.
Morgan: Well, I mean, this could be a good time to do it. But I mean…don’t we
kind of have something a little more…bang-bang coming up later?
LaToya: I don’t know, I think we should play it right now.
Morgan: Right now?
LaToya: Yeah. Play it.
Morgan: Okay, I mean, yeah, sure, why don’t we start it?
[Beat of GUNN jingle plays]
LaToya: Wait, wait. No. Not now. Now’s not the time.
Morgan: Okay. Later? Alright.
LaToya: Yeah.


Morgan: We’ll do it later, we’ll do it later. So…[laughs] yeah, so, unfortunately,
Wes’s plans are foiled because Fred is like, “Of course, we’re on it! Together!” [both
laugh] And now he’s assigned them a cute date. [laughs]
LaToya: And just to be clear, Gunn didn’t ask her to join. She joined of her own
volition, so…’cause she wants to be with him, Wesley, you see.
Morgan: Mmhmm. Yes, because when given the choice, she chooses this. It isn’t
just something that happened. It’s not just that he snatched her up first. They
moved together. [laughs]
LaToya: Angel’s being petty, but when confronted by Groo, he can’t help but be
decent to the guy.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Wes, on the other, acts on a petty feeling and it immediately blows up in
his face.
Morgan: [takes deep breath] Yep. Which, let it be a lesson to you.
LaToya: It’s not!
Morgan: So our next scene is an Angel and Wes scene. They are at the rare texts
bookstore. [laughs] And Angel thinks—Angel’s like, you know what? I just think
that, uh—that Groo and Cordelia should just do it. You know? I think they should
just do it and just see what happens and, you know, who cares?
LaToya: Even in this scene, Wesley just thinks that Angel is jealous of Groo being,
like, the new champion, and not the romantic aspect of it all. [laughs]
Morgan: Wes, like, again, is also kind of like, thinking of it somewhat selfishly and
is like, “Yeah, office romances are complicated.” [laughs] And I’m like, no, this is
not about you. Like, please. And Wes is like, “You really think that, like, you know,
if Groo got the visions, he could replace Cordy?” And Angel says, “Not Cordy.”
LaToya: Aww.
Morgan: So then Wes says…
[Clip from episode plays]


Wesley: I see. You think he could replace you?
Angel: I don't know. Seems to me, here’s a guy who can do everything I
can. And a few things I can't.
Wesley: That's not true.
Angel: You saw what happened this afternoon. If Groo hadn't been there…
Wesley: Then the rest of us would have. Angel, you're the reason we've all
come together. It's your mission which animates us. We each contribute, it's
true, but you…you're unique. You're like one of these rare volumes. One of a
kind.
Morgan: To which, again, we cannot have one moment of sweetness before it is
undercut in classic, you know, Team Angel fashion. And the shopkeeper comes out
and is like, “I’ve got three of ‘em!” [both laugh]
LaToya: Meanwhile, we have Cordy cutting off the wig.
Morgan: Ugh, finally. Yeah, in the Hyperion office, they’re making out. Cordy says
she’s gonna do something she practiced on her cousin, which is give him a haircut,
thank god.
LaToya: I didn’t like that joke.
Morgan: [laughs] I really like the joke where—however, where she’s like, “Your
strength’s not in your hair, isn’t it?” And Groo goes, “No, I believe it’s in my
muscles.” [both laugh] And then flexes and then his arms are insane. This sweet,
golden—
LaToya: That was a Samson reference for all you Bible heads.
Morgan: For you—yeah, for you Bible fans. [LaToya laughs] But yes, Cordy’s
landed herself a prime…himbo. A lovely, sweet, sweet boy. The muscles joke made
me laugh so hard and I think it is just, like, a perfect encapsulation of him. Like, he
does not…well, I mean, one, he doesn’t know about the Bible. So he would not
know about, like, you know, Samson. You know, comes from a different dimension.
But in general, he does seem to be constantly oblivious to, like, double meanings
and deeper meanings of things. But he is so readily available with his answer, and
his sincere offer of, like, “No, I’m pretty sure it’s my muscles that are what makes


me strong. Here they are and they’re huge. And I’m a sweet, like, golden retriever
boy.” I adore him. I think that if you don’t like him…
LaToya: You can suck it.
Morgan: You need to just kinda, like, look deep within yourself and kind of figure
out what’s going on there.
LaToya: And suck it.
[KRISTIN'S CORNER jingle plays]
Kristin's Corner! Kristin's Corner!
It's all Riley sucks and what the fuck
And horny is hot
Kristin's Corner is the place
For very deep thoughts
Kristin: I’m here. I’m right here.
Morgan: Yeah?
Kristin: I don’t like him.
Morgan: May I ask…why? [giggles]
LaToya: Why?
Kristin: You know. I want a little more. Like, and I don’t need the more to be bad.
I don’t need it to be, like, complicated in a bad way. But like, we have referred, in
jingle form, to Gunn as a himbo. And that is a himbo that I can get behind.
No—whatever, Freudian slips intended.
Morgan: [laughs] Yeah.
Kristin: But like, you know, Gunn—Gunn has a certain something. He just has
moments where you’re like, oh my god, that hot himbo. That, I’m here for. The
Groosalugg has never been—he—look. [laughs] So when I—when I told LaToya and
Morgan, “I don’t like the Groosalugg, so call me in whenever you want me to have
what they consider the wrong opinion. Call me in.” They asked me, when does he
bother you the most? And I was like, that’s the thing. [laughter] It is the same
general distaste in my mouth [LaToya laughs] from the moment the character is


introduced, throughout. Like, I—there’s never, like, a thing that he does—he
doesn’t do anything wrong. He doesn’t do anything bad.
Morgan: [simultaneously] Never did anything wrong in his life.
Kristin: [simultaneously] He’s not unattractive. He—like, you know? His muscles
are indeed nice. His wig makes me wanna fall down and faceplant, but—[laughter]
Morgan: Can’t relate. [laughter]
Kristin: Yeah, he doesn’t—he—he isn’t, like, a sum negative, you know? He’s
just—he’s nothing. He’s nothing. I’m so sorry. [Kristin and LaToya laugh]
Morgan: I…here’s the thing. I am never gonna make you feel the thing that I feel,
where I’m like, I kind of lowkey want a poster of him on my wall [Kristin laughing]
that I put heart stickers on and kiss before I go to bed at night.
Kristin: Yeah.
Morgan: But—and I don’t think you need to feel that way to, like, approve of the
character. It’s mostly, I’m just like, I want Cordy to get some time—
Kristin: Yes.
Morgan: With someone who adores her. Someone—
Kristin: Yes.
Morgan: I think Cordy deserves something uncomplicated. And I don’t wanna say
that, like, in a—in a, like, calling Groo simple way—
Kristin: Right.
Morgan: Or anything like that. I think it’s ‘cause his affection for her is very
uncomplicated. Like—
Kristin: Yeah.
Morgan: I mean, there’s like—there’s the complication of the fact that if they have
sex, it might take away her visions. But the stuff with Angel is so thorny and
confusing. And even for Cordy, I think she really, really struggles to admit to
herself that she’s even interested in Angel.


Kristin: Mmhmm.
Morgan: Like, there’s so much self-doubt and self-sabotage going on there. But
with Groo, it can actually, like, be easy and she can be, like, adored—
Kristin: Yeah.
Morgan: By him. And I think, like, all of us adore her. And I see him as, like, a
vessel—as a character, like—[Kristin laughs] oh, god. Maybe that’s not fair. But
like, a vessel for, like, the affection that Cordelia deserves. Like, he is someone who
can give to her all of the things I think Cordelia deserves to receive. Does that
mean that they have to—
Kristin: [simultaneously] Yes. Both a come and a shuck.
Morgan: Yes, both. I just—it doesn’t mean they have to be together forever. But I
do think, like—
Kristin: No, that’s fair. And one of our listeners actually tweeted back at me when I
was like, “I don’t like the Groosalugg.” It was a fucking hot topic of conversation,
‘cause all of you love Groo, so fair. [laughter] But Rosie was like, listen, anyone
who can make Cordelia come is, like, good in my book. [laughs]
Morgan: Right! Again, I’m just like—
Kristin: [simultaneously] That’s fair.
Morgan: They can fuck! Like, don’t you—like—at the end of the day—
Kristin: [simultaneously] Right. I do. I do want Cord—and I do—like, I am here for
Groo in a lot of ways. I just—I don’t see the appeal of Groo, as like, a long-standing
thing, in Cordelia’s life or in my life as a viewer of this television show. [laughs]
Morgan: Fair.
Kristin: Those are my opinions.
Morgan: That’s so fair.
Kristin: Before I leave you, ‘cause this is only a corner.


Morgan: Mmhmm.
Kristin: But this is the only corner I get. [Morgan laughs] I also do not think that
Cordelia Chase would purr. I heard you say it, LaToya, that Cordelia was purring.
When I heard her purr, I said, that is not Cordelia Cha—I don’t think she would
have purred out loud—
LaToya: When she first saw Angel, she said, “Hello, salty goodness.”
Kristin: Yes! And that—
LaToya: You don’t think she would purr?
Kristin: No. I would say “hello, salty goodness.” I would not purr out loud. I might
purr in my mind. [laughs]
Morgan: I—
LaToya: She’s so comfortable with Angel and Wesley, though. She would purr in
front of Angel and Wesley.
Kristin: Okay. Alright.
Morgan: [simultaneously] Yeah, I’m gonna push back on this hard. [Kristin laughs]
She’s comfortable with these men. She—
Kristin: You thought you were coming for me for Groo! [laughter]
Morgan: Yeah, no, the purring is—[laughter] this is where I draw my line. This
woman has not had sex in so long. In so fucking long. [Kristin laughing] She is
like—and—and! A man is here who wants to have sex with her, who adores her
and, like, thinks she walks on water. And is like, truly—like, you know, like, once
they’re allowed to do stuff, like, it’s gonna get pretty real. Like, she’s gonna sit on
his face. Like, it—congrats to Cordy and Groo.
Kristin: Do you think Groo would be able to handle it? That’s part of my concern
about Groo. Will he be able to have the kind of sex Cordelia wants to have?
Morgan: [crosstalk, inaudible]
LaToya: He’s the champion of Pylea!


[Kristin laughs]
Morgan: He’s the champion of Pylea. Here’s the thing, like, whatever he doesn’t
know, I bet he’s a quick study. Like—
Kristin: That’s true. That’s fair. That’s fair.
Morgan: Maybe the first time’s not gonna be the best time. But I think it’s going to
get better and better as things go on.
Kristin: [laughing] Okay.
Morgan: And I really have to say, yeah, I think that Cordelia can train—
Kristin: [simultaneously] Would purr.
Morgan: Can train Groo to be a pretty superior lover.
LaToya: Yeah, also, Kristin, you can’t leave yet. ‘Cause I have to call out you
comparing him to Riley Finn. That—
Kristin: Mehh! I didn’t!
Morgan: [simultaneously] Let’s talk about that.
Kristin: I didn’t! Jenny did!
Morgan: That was Jenny?
LaToya: Oh, sorry.
Kristin: Jenny did! I didn’t, I just—
LaToya: [simultaneously] That piece of driftwood. [Morgan laughs]
Kristin: I do not compare—I see—I think that the root of my dislike of them may
be found in the same place. But I do—that was just Jenny saying, I think you dislike
Groo because—like, you disliking Groo is parallel to you disliking Riley. And she
does have a point in that the reason that I dislike both characters is that I want a
little more complication from them. Riley is a fucking asshole.


LaToya: [simultaneously] Well, the difference is, Riley is treated as a serious love
interest, and Riley is a piece of shit. But also—
Kristin: Yes, Riley is—Riley is an asshole and Groos—Groo has done nothing wrong.
Nothing wrong. He is a wonderful human being. I just don’t see the appeal. And
that—
LaToya: And usually—I’ve been wanting to say, and we can say it now because it is
factored into it. So—like, during the haircut scene, Groo’s like, basically, “Will this
make you able to love me?” You know…
Kristin: Uh!
LaToya: And he spends the whole episode, you know—obviously, Cordy is like, “I
just need to be able to have sex with him. That’s the barrier.” But Groo is seeing,
like, that’s not the barrier.
Kristin: Yeah.
LaToya: Like, the barrier is her feelings for Angel. She is just, like—
Kristin: Yeah.
LaToya: Focusing, like, “this is gonna be the thing that fixes everything.”
Kristin: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Like, Groo sees what it actually is, even if he’s not quite sure it’s Angel.
Like, he is aware.
Kristin: [simultaneously] No, totally. And Riley never did, and Riley did not show
up and was not good to Buffy in many, many ways. I agree, I don’t think that they
are comparable, except for why I don’t like them. One of the reasons why I don’t
like them. [laughter]
Morgan: Yeah, and I think—I think for both Cordelia and for Buffy, I think what
you might be responding to is that Riley and Groo fill similar roles in being a person
that I think it’s important for both of these women to be with and understand: this
is what I receive from this kind of person. Like, maybe—maybe in my head, when
I’m thinking about who I should be with, do I just want a beautiful hunk with a
heart of gold who does everything that I say? Like, that can be, like, a beautiful


fantasy. But maybe it ultimately won’t be that fulfilling once it’s something that you
have.
Kristin: Yeah.
Morgan: And for Buffy, it’s like, maybe what I really need is, like, a person. Like, a
normal person who, like, is—like, cares about this fight but is mortal and is very,
like, firmly entrenched on one side of it and can’t see the—like, the shades of gray.
And that ultimately ends up being not what she needs—
Kristin: Yeah.
Morgan: And not something that is wholly fulfilling to her.
Kristin: Yeah.
Morgan: So maybe it frustrates you that, like, these people are essentially kind of,
like, characters that are, like, a middle step, that aren’t necessarily going to be end
game. But I think those characters are great. Like, I think—like, middle-step love
interests are characters that I tend to love so much and bring so much to stories.
Like—
Kristin: Yeah.
Morgan: I love, like, Merritt Wever in New Girl as Elizabeth—like, Schmidt’s kind
of, like, girlfriend—like, big, serious girlfriend before Cece. Like, I think that
learning what you don’t want—
Kristin: Mmm.
Morgan: Is such an important part of adulthood. And experiencing, like, things
good and bad and, like, colliding with people in ways that are, you know, ultimately
not, like, the thing you need the most, but are significant to you. Like, I think that’s
the kind of story that this show specifically is really equipped to deal with, a lot
better than Buffy. Because I think it deals—
Kristin: [simultaneously] Yeah. Wow. Just calling out the feud right here, live in
fucking real time.
Morgan: [simultaneously] Yeah, right here, right now.
Kristin: Wow.


Morgan: No, I just think that—I think Angel does complicated adulthood stories a
little better. Whereas I think Buffy tends to live more in the coming-of-age place.
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah.
Morgan: Which is why I will say, Cordelia—have we ever—has anyone ever talked
about how Cordelia does not feel like she’s the same age as all the Scoobies?
Kristin: Uh, yes. Actually—I don’t remember what spurred this conversation on.
But our listenership has been talking recently about that exact thing.
LaToya: [simultaneously] How it’s like they age her up.
Kristin: [simultaneously] That Cordelia was, like, a teenager in one show and now
is just like a full adult person on Angel.
Morgan: Yeah. That is definitely something that once in a while—I think, when I
was watching it at, like, young—when I was younger, like, the cognitive dissonance
of that was very odd for me. But now, watching it very separate from my time
watching Buffy, I’ve had no issues with it whatsoever and I’ve been really into it.
But yeah, there’s occasionally where I’m like, oh. Cordelia’s canonically, what? Like,
21 right now?
Kristin: [laughing] 21? Right. She definitely does not operate in this space as a
21-year-old. But she, like—
LaToya: [simultaneously] Then again, neither do people on Buffy.
Morgan: Yeah.
Kristin: Yes.
Morgan: Oh, gosh, yeah.
Kristin: And—right, and that’s the thing is like, they’ve all been through—they’ve
all been through so much trauma. [laughs]
Morgan: Mmhmm.
Kristin: That I don’t think, like, age is consistent with what we might think that age
is.


Morgan: Fair.
Kristin: Listen, before I leave my corner, the one thing that—one other thing that I
wanted to say is that I—this is not your intention. But listening to you both talk
about Wesley over the last few episodes, in a beautifully fair way, [laughing] has
made me realize that I have a lot of issues with Wesley. I really—I am, like,
struggling with Wesley Wyndam-Pryce, deeply, in my soul. He—this is a bad
episode for him. And he has not been showing up the way that I would like for him
to show up, over the last few episodes, so.
LaToya: I’m worried for how you will react to the rest of the season and also,
Season 4. [laughs]
Morgan: I will say that—now, watching the show with—
LaToya: I’m curious how I’m gonna react to Season 4 now, with all of this.
Kristin: Yeah.
Morgan: Me too. Given the fact that I don’t have, like, super vivid memories of the
future—like, I’m very nervous about the Wes stuff. And also, now that I’m
rewatching the full series with Michael, like, Michael really loves Wes. And I’m very
interested to see—
Kristin: Ooooh.
Morgan: What our journey’s going to be like, [laughter] going forward, watching
this together.
Kristin: Oh no!
LaToya: How is he gonna feel about this boy energy?
Kristin: Yeah.
Morgan: ‘Cause he also loves—like, he loves Gunn. He loves Angel and Cordy so
much. He’s, like, fully in love with Cordelia. And it’s—like, I’m like, yes, fair, valid.
But I’m wondering—
Kristin: Mmhmm.


Morgan: What that future’s gonna look like for all of us.
Kristin: Yeah, keep an eye—keep an eye on that boy. You know what I mean?
Keep an eye on him. Take some notes. Put it in your Shanshu prophecies.
[laughter]
Morgan: I’m gonna keep a close eye on him. [laughs]
Kristin: I’m gonna leave my corner here. Thank you. You’ve given me much real
estate here in this corner. I will let you continue your journey, but yeah, I don’t
like—I don’t—I don’t wanna kiss Groo. I don’t see the appeal and I find that I have
all the room in the world for those that do. [Morgan laughs] So, you know. You
don’t have to—
LaToya: I mean, I don’t wanna kiss him. Maybe touch his muscles. I don’t need to
kiss him.
Kristin: Yeah, I don’t wanna—
Morgan: Yeah. I don’t see anything wrong, giving him a little kiss, if
he’s—[crosstalk]
Kristin: That’s what I thought. [laughter]
Morgan: If he wanted a little kiss, I’d…give him one.
LaToya: If you could steal a smooch from any champion of Pylea. [laughter] Who
would it be?
Morgan: [laughs] Oh, I’ve got ideas. [laughter]
[KRISTIN'S CORNER jingle plays]
Kristin's Corner! Kristin's Corner!
Morgan: Thank you, Kristin. [laughs] I write in my notes, “She really likes him. He
respects her and understands her fears. Heart.” [laughs] But yeah. Yeah, you are
absolutely right, LaToya. Like, he is sensing the hesitancy that is, like, very real and
is not just about the sex, that Cordelia can’t even articulate to herself that she’s
feeling.
LaToya: Mmhmm.


Morgan: Which I think is complicated and interesting and cool.
LaToya: Yeah. So Gunn and Fred are doing surveillance on the husb—I’m sorry,
the fiance. Not even husband, it’s…
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: [laughing] Eight years fiance.
Morgan: Yeah, I mean, normally it might take—[laughing] you know. Eight years.
[both laugh]
LaToya: Girl.
Morgan: Eight years!
LaToya: And also, like, based on—this guy’s a dweeb, from what we see.
Morgan: This guy’s a dweeb. I wanna, like, take this girl out to drinks and be like,
honey. [both laugh] Eight years—
LaToya: Girl, you gay? [both laughing]
Morgan: Honey.
LaToya: Girl, you gay?
Morgan: You gay? [both laugh] I truly—like, I wanna take her out for pink drinks
and just be like, we gotta—
LaToya: [simultaneously] And see where the night goes? [laughs]
Morgan: We gotta—I mean, yeah, one, see where the night goes. ‘Cause yeah,
what’s up. But two, just be like, are you alright? Are you okay with it being eight
years? ‘Cause if you’re fine with it, then whatever.
LaToya: It’s the eight years plus, like, the spying on him. Like…girl, you can do
better?
Morgan: You can. That’s—you deserve better. ‘Cause here’s the thing, obviously it
is ultimately an evil spooky tree with internet who is catfishing people.


LaToya: It’s like, obviously he’s getting catfished, but like, it’s a mystical
catfishing. [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah, but I—but if—but the thing is, I don’t—is it mystical in that, like,
does it have a magic that makes you want to go fuck the tree? Because—
LaToya: That’s the thing. I question. Does it have, like, magical interweb
aphrodisiac powers? [laughs]
Morgan: ‘Cause I don’t think it does. I think this guy is just—wants to cheat on his,
like, fiancee of eight years and has fallen for the smooth-talking words of this tree.
The sweet nothings this tree is typing with its little vine fingers. What on earth?
[LaToya laughs] I’m sorry, sir, but this girl deserves better. And it’s why I will go to
a happy hour of her choosing and, you know, let her dish.
LaToya: [laughing] There’s so much cute stuff in this scene, but we just had to
zero in on the creepy, weird stuff of it.
Morgan: Classic us.
LaToya: So like, Season 3 was the first Angel season I watched live. ‘Cause I was
watching Buffy Season 6 live also.
Morgan: Right.
LaToya: And I remember, like, the tree case so vividly. [both laugh] I’m like, oh
yeah! It’s the tree case!
Morgan: Did it scare you? ‘Cause you were younger.
LaToya: No. Well, no, I think it was just—it was wacky, it was fun. Like, this and
the chrome dudes at the dock and some other ones in the future, I think about
them a lot, you know.
Morgan: I love the tree. I’m obsessed with the tree. I would like the tree to be the
next contestant on The Circle next year. [laughs]
LaToya: I mean, you’re a woman so you keep the trees, of course.
Morgan: Ah, yes, of course. That’s the—trees are a woman’s game. So Gunn is
talking about all the kinds of, like, romantic magic that could be happening,
including voodoo booty rituals. [both laugh]


LaToya: Terrible. And also, he—they didn’t even realize that Wes was sending him
on what he thought was a wild goose chase. Like, they’re taking this seriously.
Morgan: Yeah, they’re professionals. Of course they are. I’m very proud of them.
Fred is, like, so giggly and like, she just loves it. They just, like, get a kick out of
each other.
LaToya: She’s probably—she’s so giggly, she probably cancelled her podcast,
honestly.
Morgan: [laughs] Yeah, yeah, I don’t wanna listen to Fred’s podcast.
LaToya: Fred Burkle, you get one star.
Morgan: [laughs] So when Gunn is listing all these different types of, like, romantic
magic, he says…
[Clip from episode plays]
Gunn: Then there’s the all-powerful, big, brown, soulful eyes kind of magic.
Fred: Kind of familiar with that one myself.
Morgan: Then they kiss. And they are supposed to be working and they stop and
then they kiss again. And oh my god is Gunn smooth in this scene where she’s like,
“We’re supposed to be working.” Like, and it’s like, well, this guy’s cheating. Like,
we have it right. Like, we’re doing—and I’m like, you do have it right. You need to
kiss more. I love both of you so much. This scene melted me, even more than I’d
been already melted before! Hey, you know, LaToya, you know what now might be
a good time for…
LaToya: Us to workshop that M. Night Shyamalan movie?
Morgan: Oh, absolutely, but then after we do that? Maybe we could, um, honor
one Charles Gunn by playing his jingle?
LaToya: Possibly. It could be the right time. Kristin, what do you think?
Kristin: I think that any time is the right time. For the Gunn jingle. The jingle that J.
August Richards loves. Always wanted to be a himbo, said J. August Richards.
Okay, that’s all I’ll say. Play the fucking jingle.


Morgan: We’re a podcast that makes dreams come true! Hit it, bitch!
[everyone laughs]
LaToya: You just wanted to say “hit it, bitch.”
Morgan: I really did.
[laughter]
[GUNN jingle plays]
Check that tux, check that bod
Sign me up for the Gunn Squad
Did someone say Golden God?
I’m all in on the Gunn Squad
Gameboy-playing himbo king
Sign me up for the Gunn Squad
Even when he’s curmudgeonin’
I’m all in on the Gunn Squad
Bang bang! You know Charles gonna shoot his shot
Bang bang! Cracking skulls up and down the block
Bang bang! Got a smile that make the panties drop
Bang bang! Gunn Squad, Gunn Squad
[Morgan laughs]
LaToya: Yes, Wes is on translating duty.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And you know, Angel’s feeling better after their talk, which is great. And
then sees Groo with his haircut, in his clothes. And again, another pained smile
from our boy.
Morgan: Ooof. He is not liking this. Not liking this at all. But he is, I guess,
grinning and bearing it. But yeah, he does look like a little Angel clone. Which is
hilarious that Cordelia’s dressing up her new boyfriend just like Angel. Huh. Um,
interesting psychology going into that, don’t you think?
LaToya: Hmmm.


Morgan: [laughs] I love to dress my new boyfriend like my boss that I have only
platonic feelings for. No prank element. [laughs]
LaToya: My platonic buddy that I’ve never thought about in a different way.
Morgan: Never, not even once. [laughs]
LaToya: And then yeah, Cordy tells Angel that she thinks Groo’s a little taller. Girl,
leave him alone. Stop bullying this old man, this dead old man. Leave him alone.
[laughs]
Morgan: Yeah, like, come on! [laughs] He doesn’t have a lot of positive things in
his life. Like, you really need to be kinder to him. So, Cordy—
LaToya: You were one of them and now you’re—you got Groo!
Morgan: Yeah, like, don’t rub it in. Cordy says she needs some personal help, from
Angel. And Angel is so instantly concerned and, like, puts aside his, like, nonsense
and is like, “Please, like, tell me.” He is so earnest and tender with her. I write in
my notes, “I’m die.” I—yeah, I really—
LaToya: This is why people hate our podcast.
Morgan: This is.
LaToya: You put notes like “I’m die.”
Morgan: I’m really sorry. I—cut everything I’ve said from the pod. [LaToya laughs]
But yeah—
LaToya: I still wanna do one more. It’s just muted and it’s—you hear it—like, it
just drops and nothing we say.
Morgan: I still think that’s a good idea. But I think we should just mute me and
keep you. And Cordelia says, you know, you’ve done so much for me. But I just
wanna add, like, one more thing to the list. And Angel’s like, seriously, there’s no
list! Like, don’t worry. I do so many hearts in my notes. And Cordelia admits that
she needs Angel’s help to have sex.
LaToya: Cordelia. [both laugh] I need to start playing the Sims again and just
make a Sims Angel and Cordelia and get ‘em to smash.


Morgan: Yeah. Yeah. Look, I’ll take it. Anything I can get, at this point. We come
back from commercial—
LaToya: Groo dies in the pool because the ladder’s been taken away. [both laugh]
Morgan: Don’t take his ladder away! [laughs] He’s a nice boy. We come back from
commercial, Cordy’s like, “It’s not—like, it’s not about the visions. I’m not, like,
scared about that. It’s me.” And she says, “I’m tired of being lonely.” And like,
that—at that moment, I’m just like, yeah. Like, how can you begrudge her time
with Groo? Even if, like, she’s maybe not being fully honest with herself about, like,
her needs and all this stuff. I don’t think being with Groo could ever be, like, a bad
thing for her. And I think that Angel kind of gets that as well. And so she’s like, “I
did some research. There’s a potion that can protect me. And it costs a bunch of
money and I need you to go get it.” [laughs] So she sends Angel and Groo to a
brothel with a big wad of cash, to get said potion.
LaToya: Aw, yeah.
Morgan: What could go wrong?
LaToya: She says, “No woman’s gonna tempt you, right?” because—might as well
just do another eunuch line while we’re at it.
Morgan: [laughing] ‘Cause no one on this show is allowed to fuck.
LaToya: Although, again, it is always funny when Angel says, “I’m not a eunuch!”
That is funny.
Morgan: I do love it, yeah. I love when he’s like, “stop! Please!”
LaToya: He’s like—’cause he says—the way he says it is like, “Who are you telling?
Like, who have you been telling that I’m a eunuch?” [both laugh]
Morgan: Angel is worried that people are gonna start to talk. [both laugh] He has a
reputation to uphold. So then, we go back to Gunn and Fred at the tree. They’re
looking for the man that disappeared. And Gunn is like, “Oh, the camera!” and
Fred’s like, “Yeah, maybe he saw us taping him and ran.” And he goes, “No, we can
check the footage.” [both laugh] Truly, they watch this footage and I laughed so
hard when I saw the roots of this beautiful tree that they’re standing at, just go
bloop! And swallow this guy up. A plus. These effects killed me. I absolutely adored
this.


LaToya: It’s really funny. [both laughing]
Morgan: Mmhmm!
LaToya: [inaudible] even funnier!
Morgan: It’s hysterical. I love it, no notes, only smiles from me.
LaToya: What a good show.
Morgan: It’s a great show. We cut to a brothel. And I would just like to take a
moment to talk about the music that's playing [clip from episode with background
music starts] as there is a discussion of various outfits.
Woman: So I love your outfits."
Angel: Well, I really wouldn't call them outfits.
Woman: But you are together.
Groo: Yes! Two champions here together.
Angel: Not “together” together. Just “get the potion” together.
Morgan: What porn music is play—[both laughing] it’s as if—it is the most, like,
generic, bad porn music I have ever heard. And I was absolutely cackling and
screaming. I could not handle it.
LaToya: Morgan, would you like to talk about all the porn music you’ve heard?
Morgan: I do not have to be a connoisseur to be familiar with the, like [sings porn
music tune]. Like, it’s absolute…awful. It made me laugh so hard. And then I was
laughing even harder when I watched Angel be sidetracked and enchanted by a
sexy pillow fight?
LaToya: It’s enchanted. Everything is extended for maximum pleasure. And Angel’s
like, I want some of that. [both laugh]
Morgan: I’m sorry, but if you, like, can’t tear your eyes away from a sexy pillow
fight, you need to get laid.


LaToya: [singing] “If you can’t tear your eyes away from a sexy pillow fight!”
Didn’t—didn’t work. [both laugh]
Morgan: I liked it.
LaToya: [singing] “And getting caught in the rain!”
Morgan: [laughs] Anyways, I was just in hysterics. The boys are taken into an
office in the brothel. And there is a man chained to the wall? And Groo instantly is
like, “We’re here to save you!” and, like, goes and tries to, like, un-shackle him.
And the man has to be like, ah, no, no. And Angel’s like, “Actually, I think this is,
um—he likes being here.” And this guy does say, “Don’t judge me.” Which, fair
enough. And the gal’s like, okay, I get why Groo is here. But Angel, why are you
here?
LaToya: ‘Cause he’s in love with her.
Morgan: Yeah!
LaToya: But luckily, he gets a phone call from Gunn.
Morgan: Thank god. Groo says, “Your coat is singing.” [laughs]
LaToya: That’s not even what I’m—like, I’m already just putting my—[inaudible]
seeing old tree monster, as the subtitles call it. Tree monster. The fact that the tree
monster has a DSL connection to go on lonely hearts chatrooms. The fact that Gunn
is calling because they need Groo’s help.
Morgan: The fact that they are laying next to each other and the phone is perched
on both of their shoulders and they are leaning in to share it and talk on it at the
same time was what killed me.
LaToya: The tree monster is some real Doctor Who shit. And it still looks better
than it would look on Doctor Who, actually.
Morgan: I do think it—it doesn’t look so bad. It does look hilarious, though. And
the tree’s voice made me laugh hysterically.
[AD BREAK]
Morgan: Fred and Gunn are kind of, like, trapped in this new love and, like, Fred
is—you know—like, yeah, like, Wesley and I are just friends, and all this stuff. But


they are aware of the weirdness and there is a reason they didn’t call Wesley for
help.
LaToya: Well, there’s a reason Gunn didn’t call Wesley, ‘cause Gunn knows.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And also the fact that they were making out and that’s why they’re in this
predicament.
Morgan: [laughing] Fair enough. As if Angel wouldn’t be mad about that as well?
LaToya: I mean. He has zero realization or knowledge that they have anything
going on together at all. I don’t even think he knows Wes liked Fred, so like, he
has—he’s only been thinking about Cordelia. He knows that Fred knows he likes
Cordelia, and that’s all he knows about Fred’s romantic interests at all. [laughs]
Morgan: Fair. And I do also wanna say, baby. Like, I will say, baby Connor,
probably been taking up a lot of Angel’s mental real estate. [both laugh] So I do
wanna give him, like, slight credit for his, like, obliviousness there. I do think that
explains a fair amount of it away. It’s like, he’s being a dad, like.
LaToya: He is a new father. And you know what? He’s a single father who works
too hard, who loves his kid and never stops. [both laughing] Gentle hands and the
heart of a fighter. He’s a survivor, like Reba. Hey-hey.
Morgan: Thank you.
LaToya: So, with that, I think we’ve met everyone. We’ve met the monster—the
tree monster, so.
Morgan: Hell yeah.
LaToya: I think it’s time for…Fuck Watch, bay-bay!
Morgan: Woo-woo!
[FUCK WATCH jingle plays]
Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing
Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing
Fuck Watch!


LaToya: Morgan, who’re you fucking, baby?
Morgan: This was a really tough one for me, to be honest. There are two prime
candidates. I have to be honest, because one did edge out the other. And even
though strategically, it would make more sense for me to make another choice, um,
Charles Gunn.
LaToya: This is it? This is it? Your Gunn choice, this is it?
Morgan: He is looking respectfully. And he is just—he’s so handsome. And he’s so
into her and he’s so, like…just, like, confident and unapologetic. And hot. And
because of that, Gunn. Please. Bang-bang. [laughs]
LaToya: Who was your other option?
Morgan: Groo. [laughs] Yeah, I was like—
LaToya: Kristin’s like, fuck you, Morgan. [laughs]
Morgan: No, I was like, I really should pick Groo while he still had his hair that I
think is the most appealing. But—
LaToya: Now it’s too late.
Morgan: Now it’s too late, but I—
Kristin: Morgan—
Morgan: I can’t throw this away.
Kristin: You’ve made the right choice. [LaToya laughs] We welcome you here, in
the land of good choices.
Morgan: Oh my god, now I wanna go back—[laughter]
Kristin: Ha, too late! It’s too late! [LaToya laughs]
Morgan: I hate you.
LaToya: Just to spite her.
Morgan: [laughing] This is why the feud will rage on.


LaToya: Yeah, and sorry, unfortunately I’m not gonna pick Groo. I’m gonna Anita,
the brothel lady.
Morgan: [laughs] She is really hot.
LaToya: [laughing] She was hot and she, like, ran a brothel and it seemed cool, I
wanna go into the pillow fight room.
Morgan: And she’s, like, observant but like, not pushy with her wares. I think
that’s a great choice.
LaToya: Yeah, it’s like, hey, Anita. What’s up?
Morgan: Absolutely. Yeah. Good choices, all around.
LaToya: I mean, you also could have chosen the client, the fiance. [laughs]
Morgan: I could have chosen the fiance and I could have chosen the tree. But you
know what? I made my choice and I am happy with my choice.
LaToya: The tree is a very Morgan choice.
Morgan: [laughing] The tree would be, yeah. Classic.
[FUCK WATCH jingle plays]
Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing
Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing
Fuck Watch!
LaToya: Ahh, so himbo Groo.
Morgan: Mmm.
LaToya: Not thinking much. He’s much like Spartacus in this season of Legends of
Tomorrow, in the premiere—
Morgan: Mmm.
LaToya: Where, not much of thinking. Just using his muscles, which…they had
Spartacus. He was inducted by aliens too. [laughs]


Morgan: Aww. Classic. [both laugh]
LaToya: He and Sarah became alien abduction friends, for a time.
Morgan: Aww. So Groo at least does have the, like—the common sense to hand off
the potion to Angel and to be like, “You need to protect this for me.” And Angel’s
like, okay, but can you just, like, kind of be chill for one second? And Groo’s like,
no! Ahhh! [LaToya laughs] And runs in with his sword. The charging and screaming
absolutely killed me, too cute.
LaToya: I mean, that’s always funny when you—no thoughts, head empty, just run
screaming [both laughing] to your certain demise.
Morgan: Absolutely fucking hilarious. The tree instantly latches onto Groo’s chest
and his heart and starts sucking the life out of him. To which Angel says, “That’s
my shirt!” [both laugh] We reveal the tree is made of flesh, but like, we can’t find
any or—
LaToya: That means nothing, yeah.
Morgan: Yeah, and we can’t find any organs. It uses people like batteries. And you
know who’s a pretty dang good battery? The Groosalugg. He’s making the tree so
strong! [both laugh]
LaToya: What is the tree’s endgame?
Morgan: Eat? Like, I don’t—I don’t know if the tree has a big future dastardly plan.
I think it just wants to chow down. [both laugh] So Angel’s like, “Really? He’s that
great?” Like—and the tree yells, “He’s magnificent!” Which absolutely destroyed
me. I was losing it.
LaToya: And then Angel uses his pettiness to save the day. ‘Cause he is saying all
the things he feels, but like, he’s also doing it as a plan.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Because he knows what will happen when the tree latches onto him, so.
Morgan: Yes. Angel, once again, uses acting as his greatest defense, which he also
does in Billy. And he’s like, yeah, he sucks! He’s not so good. Like, you know, you
should—like, and he punches him a bunch and is kind of like, “You should eat me


instead.” So the tree does. And…you don’t wanna chomp on a vampire. And the
tree is like, “A vampi—” Like, it’s very silly.
LaToya: “So cold!”
Morgan: “Noo!” [laughing] And Angel’s like, uh-huh. [both laugh]
LaToya: Sorry!
Morgan: Sorry! And Angel saved Groo with acting. What a prince.
LaToya: After he beat him up a bunch. That wasn’t acting. [laughing] It wasn’t—it
wasn’t wrestling.
Morgan: [laughs] Yeah, no, he really did hit Groo.
LaToya: This was a shoot fight. [both laugh]
Morgan: So we go to Wes’s office and we have Gunn, Fred and Wes. And it’s like,
alright! Like, everything’s good. You know, we saved the—we saved the client’s
fiance. Yay, good for us.
LaToya: I mean, they still need to figure their shit out, as we’ve talked about.
Morgan: Yeah, I’m like, that is only the beginning of their journey. Wes asks for a
word with Gunn. And he is…
LaToya: Okay.
Morgan: So—
LaToya: The first thing he says is, “When you knew this was more than just a
tryst, you should have told me.” Number one. Uh, no, he didn’t have to tell you
anything. That’s some Billy-ass reasoning.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Two, what gave you the impression it was “just a tryst” when he made his
feelings for her clear? Three, they owe you nothing, Wesley.
Morgan: Yeah. I fully agree. Gunn is like, hey, it’s none of your business, actually?
And it starts to kind of get contentious for a second. And I will say, Wes does


ultimately say, “She chose.” Which is, like—which is the point. The point is, like,
she picked Gunn. Like, he does acknowledge that, so at least there is that. And he
says—
LaToya: Yeah, it—
Morgan: “It’s just important to me that she’s taken care of.” And I write in my
notes, “Ugh, weird.” What…?
LaToya: She’s not your property, is what I wrote, and it’s honestly a shitty friend
thing for you to think Gunn would be bad for her.
Morgan: Yeah. And…[sighs] I just do wanna say, like, what is the right or mature
thing to do here? Like, I—is it—
LaToya: Not this? ‘Cause, like—
Morgan: Definitely not this, I agree with that.
LaToya: ‘Cause what is it? Um…Wes says, “She could get hurt. I trust that won’t
happen.” And Gunn jokes, like, “What are you, her brother?” And Wes says,
“Apparently.” And that’s—fuck. Shut up, friend-zoned-ass motherfucker. [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah, that’s—
LaToya: But that’s when Gunn realizes that Wes is genuinely hurt by the
relationship. And he’s trying to go into friend mode with Wes—
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: But Wes has, like, cut him off completely, basically, from that.
Morgan: Which, that to me is also a piece of it that’s just, like, so immature. And
I—so I tried to come at it from the place of, like, okay, Wes is legitimately hurting
to the point where, like, it would not help him to be comforted by Gunn as a friend,
because Gunn is, like, you know, part of the thing that is hurting him. Which, like,
that is a valid way to feel emotionally, as a knee jerk reaction. So what would be
the honest way to actually, like, be kind and talk things out? Which I know is the
antithesis of television, but…
LaToya: To actually talk things out.


Morgan: Yes.
LaToya: Like, Gunn wants to and Wes shuts it down.
Morgan: Yeah, so is it to be, like, hey. I also have feelings for Fred. I am feeling
hurt by what’s going on. I need you guys to know that and I will have to set some
boundaries or—is there a way we can set boundaries or ground rules for work? Is
there a way that, like, I can take some time—like, we can take some time, like,
slightly apart? Like, can I step back for things? Like, you know, I think—
LaToya: Yeah, like, they should have a normal conversation. They could
argue—just shout it out, honestly. Or, you know, it’s—considering what the show is,
they could just punch it out if they really wanted to. That’s just based on what this
show is—
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: And just that way, be done with it, you know?
Morgan: Yeah. The thing is that, like, it needs to be aired. Like, I think all of
them—
LaToya: Yeah, the issue is that it’s not being aired out.
Morgan: All of them are, like, living too close together, spending all of their time
together. Like, I don’t think you can just swallow it and move on. Like, you do have
to talk about it. But you know who also deserves to be there? Fred. I think it’s
actually a really big problem that she’s, like, banished from this conversation as if
she’s not a part of this dynamic.
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: And like, to me, that is, like, really—that is kind of, like, infantilizing
towards her. Like, of Wes to be like, I need to have this conversation with, like,
Gunn and like, make it clear that I understand he has gotten her now. And I’m like,
that’s not what this is about. Like, it’s not about who gets her. It’s about the fact
that you have feelings. And it’s like, also—
LaToya: The tryst line that opens it up really rubs me the wrong way.
Morgan: I get that.


LaToya: I mean, what the fuck is that about? Like, why do you think that’s what
Gunn would be doing to Fred? Especially since, again, you guys all work together so
closely.
Morgan: Well, yeah, because it also brings up this dynamic that you and I have
talked about before, in other ways. And I think maybe a little bit here. The,
like—the Chad Gunn and the Virgin Wes. [both laugh] That Wes seems to have this
feeling and conception of himself. Like, implying that what they shared together
could be, like, just a tryst feels like it falls into some category of, like, yeah, all you
can offer her is, like, physical stuff. But I’m, like, you know, the smart one with the
mind and the true, like, pure heart, who actually deserves her. Like, I do think—it
rubs you the wrong way because it’s painting them in that binary. Which is not
cool? And feels really fucking demeaning to everybody involved. And I think
that…like, you know, we—I know that this is, like, a dangerous swath of territory to
get into. But if we talk about this being a Joss Whedon show, like, I do think the
show has always had a really complicated and sometimes really thorny and
uncomfortable attitude towards sex. Like, with Angel’s forced celibacy and, like, he
can only be a good guy because he doesn’t fuck and that’s off the table.
Like—which I know is a simplistic way of putting it. But there is some ickiness here
that I think—I feel like I have to say something about. Does that make sense?
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: Yeah. And I don’t know if I’m fully articulating it here or if I’m just saying
that I want this to be, like, a conversation that we keep open as we talk about the
show, as we move forward. But—
LaToya: I think it should be, yeah. Just—
Morgan: But—
LaToya: Keep track of it.
Morgan: It’s a real bummer. And it’s not a good look on Wes, a character I
otherwise love. And I hope that, as we move forward, it’s something that he, like,
confronts more. And I think that’s one of the reasons that Billy is such a—like, a
resonant episode, is I do think—I just watched it again with Michael in my rewatch.
And I made a lot of jokes in the first—specifically the first season of Angel, but also
the second, that like, every monster was the monster that likes to throw women in
the garbage. And Angel was always, like, saving, you know, damsels from being
exploited by men in the big, seedy city of Los Angeles. And I think Billy is the
episode about that that kind of perfects the form by being the monster that makes


you want to throw women in the garbage. And I think it’s because this is an idea
this show—like, the way men treat women…I think this is something this show
wants to talk about. But I think sometimes you feel the absence of a woman in a
large creative role in this series. Like, who is—
LaToya: I—here’s—
Morgan: Who, like, was the woman, like, most in charge in all of this?
LaToya: Like, Mere Smith was a writer. But like, I think I’ve said this bef—maybe
not on—definitely on a podcast, ‘cause I think I’ve thought this before. I feel like
Marti should have been the one to take over Angel instead of Buffy.
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: And I think I—I always say, like, Marti taking over Buffy, it’s like, she was
the best writer, she should do it. That’s just my opinion in general.
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: But I think…her sensibilities and this show’s sensibilities really meshed
well, which I think—Marti Noxon as a showrunner for Angel would have been
amazing.
Morgan: I fully agree. And I—which, I appreciate having Fred around in this
season, and I know I’ve mentioned it a couple times, having an additional woman in
the cast. Like, it puts so much less weight on Cordelia to be like, the girl. Like, it
allows you to tell more, like, complicated stories with different types of women. And
like, two women relating to one another and all of this kind of stuff, which is great
and necessary and something that I wanna see. And like, would have been nice for,
like, Gunn to have another black character to interact with. And like, the list goes
on and on. But what are you gonna do? Like, I—I do feel like this show can do so
much, like, darker, more nuanced storytelling and explain a lot of shades of gray.
And a lot of things about, like, redemption and how we treat each other and what’s
forgivable and what’s not. And I think touching on that and not ultimately resolving
it could be a big problem. And I feel like…the men writing it maybe don’t see it as
something that needs to be handled or resolved. But also, I’m not at the end of it
yet. So who knows how I’m gonna feel later?
LaToya: Yeah, it’s just that—a lot of it—reassessing some things, obviously, and
like, addressing some things I’ve brought up in, like, fandom—


Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Which, you know, just seeing at the time. Like, the Wesley thing
especially, like—I am looking forward to things in the future. But I’m also now kind
of afraid to go back. ‘Cause like—’cause I remember it more vividly.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And you know, the way it’s framing things now, with Wesley, I’m just like,
I’m really upset. And you know, I love Wesley. But I feel like they toe the line very
well in Waiting in the Wings with his character—
Morgan: Absolutely.
LaToya: And here, it’s just like…come on, dude, fuck off. And I like it in the sense
that it does get him to, like, you know, bury himself in his work. I like that aspect
of it. But like, the fact that he acts on his pettiness this way, in a way Angel does
not—which, again, it’s kind of the Billy thing too. That’s what happened. Wes gave
into those instincts, Angel did not.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: It does show you how wholly different those two men are, even if, you
know…
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: I don’t even know necessarily if that is the—what the intent is here, like it
was in Billy.
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: But like, it does…Billy has turned out to be a very important part of the
season, hasn’t it?
Morgan: Yes! And I—you know, when Michael and I were done watching it, he was
like, “I think this is the best episode of the show.” And I’m like, I think there’s a
really good argument to be made for that. Because I do think it is—like, it’s really
resonant and feels like it’s dealing with some, like, very real ideas with these
characters. And I really love it and, like, also the direction’s fucking great. Like, it’s
just—it’s great. But it doesn’t feel like it has the woman’s side of it handled. Or like,


what it’s like to experience this kind of stuff as a woman. Other than, like, the
baseline, like, obviously it’s horrifying. [laughs] Like—
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: ‘Cause I also think there’s something to be said about the fact that these
emotions come—that Wes is feeling, that we’re dramatizing—come from a real
place. And I don’t think, necessarily, like—the hurt is not the problem. It’s, like,
the—it’s the entitlement. It’s—
LaToya: Yeah, how that manifests itself, yeah.
Morgan: I wish—like, I think it would be really compassionate to be able to tell the
story about him allowing that stuff to motivate him the wrong way. And having to
deal with those consequences and learning about it. Like, but I’m worried that
they—that won’t happen. And I’m worried that, like, he won’t—his feet won’t ever
be, like, held to the fire, really, for these kinds of attitudes.
LaToya: At the same time, like…that’s part of the reason why I think the show
holds up as well as it does and is kind of ahead of its time, in a way. It’s, like, kind
of a cable sensibility, too—
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: If you think about it. If, like, he’s not really held up to, like, the standards
and everything. It’s like, what showtime tries to do with television shows. [laughs]
And you know, is how we get Dexter but like, in a good way.
Morgan: Yeah. No, no, no. Like, the—and again, not that I say we have to punish
every—every bad guy must be appropriately punished and every good guy—for like,
the story to be good.
LaToya: But these are shows that are very much about punishment, too. So that’s
the reason why.
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: If it’s not—if the show was trying to pretend that Wesley’s in the right and
they don’t punish him—quote-unquote “punish him”—
Morgan: Yes.


LaToya: For his behavior, then what is the message we’re sending here?
Morgan: Yeah, when these stories are about heroes always picking good—
LaToya: [simultaneously] Heroes and redemption, yeah.
Morgan: You know, good over evil as much as they can, always trying to keep
fighting, et cetera. You do expect them to be held to a certain higher standard. I
think it is, like, a fear of not being able to fully tell the story in as complicated a
way as you would need to. And I think they’re afraid for, like, Wes to look as bad as
he would if they explored this fully. But also, I think he’s already looking pretty bad
in this episode. Like, I—there were things—like, I felt gross at times. And I didn’t
like feeling that about a character that I like. But I also don’t think that, like, my
favorite characters can’t do bad things. Like, I do think that’s allowed, if you close
the loop.
LaToya: Yeah, I think the cable comparison also works because then—and
especially with the way fandom receives it—is like, no wonder Gunn’s the
quote-unquote “bad guy who got in the way.” Like, he’s stopping our hero—even if
they’re an asshole, you know—
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: From doing the thing we want him to do. It’s like the Walter White/Skyler
White situation.
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: It’s every anti-hero of the past ten years, and you know, that bitch who
tried to get in the way. And in this case, Gunn is that bitch because Fred,
unfortunately, is not the central figure. She is the prize to be won, but she is not
the central figure. It is this tug of war between these two men.
Morgan: Yeah, and I think the failure to dramatize her internal process about all of
this is kind of a problem. And maybe that’s coming, but it not being here yet is
starting to grate on me. As cute as Gunn and Fred are, which, let me just say,
they’re cute as hell and I would do anything for them. And I will watch them eat
breakfast food forever—
LaToya: Yeah, I didn’t—
Morgan: But I do want Fred’s side of things.


LaToya: Yeah, I didn’t really look too much into the script for this episode
beforehand, like I did previously. But like, I’ve made clear how, you know, a lot of
the script has, like, the internal thoughts—
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Of these characters. And I don’t think I have much of that with Fred in
these scripts, I’ll just say, so. Even if it’s not, you know, out there on the screen, it
should be on the page. And I don’t think it’s so much on the page, either.
Morgan: Yeah. And that’s…that can be kind of troubling.
LaToya: [laughing] Okay, so that was the deep dive, I guess.
Morgan: [laughing] Deep dive over. Our next scene is in the Hyperion lobby. Cordy
rips Groo’s shirt off, which makes Angel wince. [both laugh] I appreciate this
season being like, okay, Angel likes his clothes, alright? Yeah, he wears leather
pants sometimes. He likes the way he dresses.
LaToya: Yeah, he does. Casual leather pants! [both laughs] Lounging about leather
pants!
Morgan: Imagine being comfortable in a pair of leather pants. [LaToya laughs] The
only leather pants I ever owned were fake leather, they were olive green, and they
were from Mary Kate and Ashley’s Walmart collection. [sighs] And one time, I sang
a Cheryl Crow song in them at a Boys and Girls Club talent show. [LaToya laughs
and claps] So Groo has a confession, and he’s about to tell, like, Cordelia what
really went down. And Angel swoops in and is like, “His confession is that he was
super brave and did a great job.” And Groo’s like, “No. I was, like, reckless and
Angel saved the day.”
LaToya: I mean, it would be “aww,” but Groo—Cordy’s like, “Groo just gives away
the credit. Who does that?” [laughing] It’s like, well, Angel just did that.
Morgan: Again, Cordy, just like, truly so aggressively oblivious to her affections for
Angel. Which I think is fascinating, and I do buy, yeah.
LaToya: Yeah, I’m like, she’s really just putting all of her eggs into the Groo
basket. Especially after Waiting in the Wings and how that awakened some things
and things were inserted.


Morgan: Oh, and things were or were not perky. Like, I think it truly just comes
from a place of, like, not wanting her calling to get crossed with, like, the rom—like,
I think it’s too important to her. Like, I think the idea that, like, being romantic with
Angel could in some way interfere with, like, her duties as Vision Girl. I think it
scares the hell out of her. ‘Cause I think she’s found so much of her identity in
doing this, that she does not wanna cede—
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: Any of it to, like, the doubt and the uncertainty and, like, the risk of
putting her heart in someone else’s hands that she would have to with Angel. And I
really think—I love that, like, as a story. Like, I think that’s really—I feel that.
That’s very resonant to me.
LaToya: Is it resonant to you that Cordy’s ready to go off and fuck Groo?
Morgan: Yeah, it is! [both laughing] I write in my notes, “Cordy horny for
humility.”
LaToya: Angel has her stay back real quick. He gives her a bunch of money.
Everyone’s just passing around wads of money in this [both laugh] episode. Tells
her to take a couple weeks off. “Take Groo some place nice, some place where
there’s sun. You’d like that.”
Morgan: I teared up.
LaToya: Of course you did, you little bitch.
Morgan: Of course I did! Like, that is—he is giving her what he—like, what he
can’t. You know? Like, the idea of being like, be with this guy who can do—you
know, like he said—everything I can do and some things that I can’t.
LaToya: I don’t know if it’s a spoiler, just…it’s information. Um, we’re gonna—not
gonna have Cordy for a few episodes. Charisma was off on her honeymoon.
Morgan: Aww.
LaToya: So that’s what this is.
Morgan: Oh, well, good for her.
LaToya: Yeah.


Morgan: My final note for this scene is, “Wes and Angel share sad single boy look.”
LaToya: [singing] “New York. Lonely boy.” [both laugh] But it’s—wait. “LA—”
Both: [singing] “Lonely boy.”
LaToya: [singing] “Another LA lonely boy.”
Morgan: I have not heard New York Lonely Boy yet, but I have heard of it. I
cannot wait. Girls5eva.
LaToya: You’re gonna love it. You’re gonna love it. But yeah, before she goes, she,
like—she realizes finally, like, oh, I could patch you up, Angel.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And he’s like, I’m good. And Lorne is, you know, putting Connor to bed,
‘cause Lorne’s in two scenes and he’s bookending the episode, apparently.
Morgan: Yeah, and he’s Connor’s official nanny. And—
LaToya: [singing] “A nanny named Lorne!”
Morgan: [laughs] And, you know, Angel—he, like—I love this moment so much,
where he, like, looks at his son and he’s like, you know what? I’m gonna be fine.
Like, he gave away this thing with Cordy, but it’s—it’s not out of this desire to be a
martyr that has nothing. Like, that is very Season 1 Angel, I feel like—
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: To be like, let—I let the girl go so that I can be sad, alone in my dark
room. It’s like, no—
LaToya: Yeah, I’m gonna go read a book in the dark like a little weirdo.
Morgan: It’s like, I let the girl go so that I can keep focusing on both the mission
and my son, and so that she can ultimately be happy. Like, all of that, positive,
good. Like—
LaToya: That’s healthy.


Morgan: Healthy!
LaToya: Downstairs. [Morgan laughs] Wesley writes, “the son.” With an O and not
a U.
Morgan: Mmhmm. Angel comes in with the baby. Wes thought he was alone. Angel
says, “So did I.”
LaToya: Aww.
Morgan: And looks at his son! Who he loves!
LaToya: He gives him a kiss, he gives his son a kiss, it’s so cute!
Morgan: [laughing] Daddy Angel strikes again.
LaToya: And that’s at the end of the episode, nothing bad happens.
Morgan: Nope. Definitely we don’t widen out on the legal pad that Wes is working
on to read, “The father will kill the son.” And I definitely don’t write, “oops!” in big
letters in my notes. [both laugh]
LaToya: [groans]
Morgan: Why can’t we have nice things? [laughs] That is…that is Couplet. I know
I’m feeling in need of some comfort. Maybe the warm embrace of The WB?
LaToya: Hmm. Possibly. Hit the theme song!
[DUBBA-DUBBA-WB jingle plays]
Angel is a vampire
Does he even like TV?
"I think he'll like The WB."
They got that hot teen drama
To ease the pain and trauma
And here's the episode that he
Needs to see (aw yeah!)
LaToya: Ah! Couplet.
Morgan: Mmhmm.


LaToya: What an episode of Angel. [Morgan laughs] So I was scrolling through The
WB rolodex, you know, about couples and third wheels and all that fun stuff.
[Morgan laughs] And I should note, last week I chose Dawson’s Creek—or the last
episode, I chose Dawson’s Creek. Which was my second Dawson’s Creek episode,
actually.
Morgan: Hell yeah.
LaToya: But to be fair. The high school seasons and the college seasons are two
different shows. One is Dawson’s Creek, one is Joey’s Creek. So—
Morgan: Of course.
LaToya: There you go. Again, Katie Holmes is the only person in every single
episode of Dawson’s Creek. That is a fact.
Morgan: Baffles me.
LaToya: But I still haven’t picked the Joey’s mugger episode yet, so just you wait.
Morgan: [laughing] Can’t wait—what awful episode of Angel is gonna inspire the
Joey’s mugger episode? [both laugh] I don’t know if there’s an episode that bad in
my future.
LaToya: We’ll find something. We’ll find something. With that in mind, I chose
what I believe to be the spiritual successor to Dawson’s Creek—
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Most notably in the fact that they filmed in the same town and they had
James Van Der Beek playing, basically, the meta version that he would play of
himself bef—like, pre-Apartment 23.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: The type of person Dawson Leery would hate. [Morgan laughs] And this is
One Tree Hill—
Morgan: Ooh.
LaToya: Season 1, Episode 18, To Wish Impossible Things. AKA the date auction
episode.


Morgan: Mmm.
LaToya: An early classic in One Tree Hill history, and one that provides us with
plenty of couplings, or couplets, if you will.
Morgan: I will.
LaToya: Plenty of jealousy and trying to figure out what relationships will work.
You got Bryan Greenberg as the hottest teen dad this side of Andrew Keegan. It
just depends on your type. If you want a hot Andrew Keegan teen dad, you watch
7th Heaven.
Morgan: Mmm.
LaToya: If you want a hot Bryan Greenberg teen dad, you watch One Tree Hill.
Pick your poison.
Morgan: [giggles] Fair enough.
LaToya: Just knowing that one will be 7th Heaven. [both laugh] Angel, you might
be feeling like these pairings, they got you down. But you know what? Pairs are
always flip-flopping! Things are always changing. The wind will change. Maybe it
won’t always be Groo and Cordy. Maybe one day, it will be Groo and Fred. Maybe
one day, it will be Gunn and Cordy.
Morgan: What’s up? [both laughing]
LaToya: Maybe one day, it will be Angel and Wesley.
Morgan: We can only hope. I love it. And I bet Angel will love it too, as he holds
Connor and lets him fall asleep to the soft tones of Chad Michael Murray.
[DUBBA-DUBBA-WB jingle plays]
Angel is a vampire
Does he even like TV?
"I think he'll like The WB."
They got that hot teen drama
To ease the pain and trauma
And here's the episode that he
Needs to see (aw yeah!)


Morgan: Alright. So that is it for us on Couplet. If you would like to follow us on
social media, you can follow us on Twitter and Instagram, @AngelOnTopCast. You
can support us in the Angel On Top Patreon, which you can find at angelontop.com.
If you go to our Patreon, you can have access to fun things like jingles and bonus
episodes, like our movie podcast, Girls on Film. We’ve covered Down with Love,
Legally Blond and soon, Anna Karenina. So that is gonna be hugely fun, and you
should join us there, please. LaToya, where can the people find you?
LaToya: Don’t.
Morgan: [laughs] If you should want to follow or find me, you can find me online
on any social media platform, @LorganMutich. Um, and that is all for us.
LaToya: The next episode’s titled Loyalty. I wonder what that’s about.
[Morgan laughs]
[Angel On Top theme plays]

