Angel On Top
Episode 3.16: Sleep Tight
[CHIME]
LaToya: Welcome back to Angel On Top, a podcast where we watch and discuss
every episode of Angel, one by one, spoiler free and in tandem with that damn,
dirty Buffering the Vampire Slayer. [Morgan laughs and growls] I’m your co-host,
LaToya Ferguson, AKA the Cordelia Chase of the Buffering verse, AKA Bones, AKA
one half of the Gunn Squad—pow-pow—AKA…Theodore K. Mullins, AKA Gilly, AKA
lover of long winded bits.
Morgan: And I'm your co-host, Morgan Lutich, AKA the Winifred Burkle of the
Buffering verse, AKA also Bones, AKA the other half of the Gunn Squad—bang,
bang—AKA Frank Scabopolis, AKA sorry! And AKA also a lover of long winded bits.
LaToya: And this week, we are watching Angel Season 3, Episode 16, Sleep Tight.
Sleep Tight was written by Angel co-creator David Greenwalt, and directed by
Terrence O’Hara. It aired on The WB on March 4th, 2002.
Morgan: This is the one where Wes fails very hard in his desire to do the right
thing and both protect Connor and remain friends with Angel.
[Angel On Top theme plays]
LaToya: [dramatically] Previously on Angel. Check him out, he’s Mr. Dad! [Morgan
giggles] Lilah’s got the blood of Angel’s son! Sahjhan needs the blood of Angel’s
son! Things have been slow since Cordy and Groo went on vacation. I mean,
they’ve been slow all season, but okay. [Morgan laughs] Wes is all holed up with his
books and his prophecies. The Jolly Burger tells Wes of the signs. Lilah says the
plan’s already started. And the signs are: earthquake, fire, blood.
Morgan: Just right there to get your stomach just, like, clenched in the knot that it
will be in for the next 45 minutes.
LaToya: Mmhmm. I mean, we open being reminded, the father will kill the son.
Morgan: We truly do. And we see Connor, like, crying in his bassinet. And Angel
comes in and he says, “Don’t you know what you’re supposed to do?” We have the,
like, foreboding moment of, is this another one of Wes’s deeply unpleasant dreams?
No, it’s not. He’s like, “You’re supposed to pick them up when they fuss!” And we
see that Connor is in a cute little set of overalls, which melted me. [laughs]


LaToya: We see that Angel is gulping a big old glass of blood. [laughs]
Morgan: Good god. When we get to that part, I’m gonna have words. ‘Cause I
didn’t remember it, and I was so horrified, let me tell you.
LaToya: Yup.
Morgan: I was un—
LaToya: That’s why I kept hitting it hard, baby. [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah, you were right to! Good god. He’s like, “ah, Wes, you look like hell.
And, like, not the fun kind, like, the Nixon and Britney Spears hell.” And I’m like,
this is where we should have known something was off. Britney Spears. How dare
you. Blasphemy.
LaToya: Yeah. My note is, a 2002 Britney Spears joke, how apt. And I also have, I
think we should play the Patriarchy jingle right here, obviously.
Morgan: Absolutely. That’s some patriarchal bullshit.
[THE PATRIARCHY jingle plays]
The patriarchy! [thunder clap, evil laughter]
LaToya: [sarcastically] You know, Britney Spears is as bad as that criminal,
Richard Nixon. [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah, one of these things is not like the other. That is not—they are not
analogous. So I would get much more angry at Angel were he not under the
influence of human blood. So I guess I’ll let it slide.
LaToya: Also. Maybe Angel knows something about Britney Spears.
Morgan: [whispers] What does he know? [both laugh]
LaToya: When did he know?
Morgan: What does he know? When did he know? [both laugh] Alright, so now
we’re gonna do, like, a Serial-esque podcast to figure out what Angel knew about
Britney Spears. [both laugh] So Wes is like, “Hey, you seem…chipper.” And Angel’s


like, “Yeah, I don’t know if it was the earthquake or whatever, but I didn’t sleep and
I’m full of energy. I could drink a horse.” Gulp. [laughs]
LaToya: Gulp, gulp, gulp. They don’t have insurance on the hotel, apparently,
which—what did David do with all these fake documents?
Morgan: I don’t know. I feel like David would have gotten them insurance.
Maybe—I don’t know what the reasoning would be to not get them insurance. And I
don’t know why we haven’t seen David in a while. I miss him.
LaToya: [laughing] We’re the only Angel podcast that’s always like, where’s David?
What’s David up to?
Morgan: He’s just so sweet. I love when Cordy considers marrying David. And I’m
like, yeah. Get that money, girl. [both laugh] Do it. So then we hear some singing
outside, and we realize in the courtyard, Lorne has a client. He is listening to her
sing. She’s playing the guitar. She seems—she’s good.
LaToya: And is this also…I didn’t check, I needed to—the first time Wes has called
him Lorne and not the Host? ‘Cause we’ve been—they took a long time to stop
calling him the Host in this season, as we know.
Morgan: Fucking finally. Like, maybe Wes is so awfully formal with everybody.
[both laugh] Maybe we’re just missing when he was constantly, like, calling Gunn,
like, Mr. Charles Gunn. [both laugh] And Miss Winifred Burkle.
LaToya: That would be a great bit for Wesley. I would love to see that.
Morgan: Would love, would love.
LaToya: Mr. Heraldo Angel?
Morgan: [laughs] Yes. So, like, Angel takes Connor out to watch the singing lady.
And he, like—he starts fussing, so he takes him around the hotel. He shows him
some swords to get him to calm down. Which, alright. And then he’s like, oh, shit.
We gotta baby-proof this place! [laughs]
LaToya: Oh, Angel. Yeah, there are weapons everywhere! [laughs]
Morgan: Well, I guess they’re not gonna need to do that now…[laughs]
LaToya: Jesus Christ, Morgan! Already. [both laugh]


Morgan: I wanna die. Meanwhile, something cute happens and it’s that Gunn and
Fred are on the phone together. And, like, talking as they walk up to each other.
Good lord. [laughs]
LaToya: Yes, it’s very cute. But I also wanted to talk real quick about Angel telling
Connor that “Uncle Wes loves you. He’s just English.” [both laugh]
Morgan: Yes, I love that very much.
LaToya: ‘Cause that’s why—that’s why they think Wes is acting weird. It’s just
‘cause he’s British. [both laughing] That’s what they think is happening here.
Morgan: He’s—yeah, you know how the British don’t sleep and they [both
laughing] look like shit and—
LaToya: They just stare at babies. [both laughing]
Morgan: They seem like they’re under the weight of the world.
LaToya: They stare at babies like they think, someone’s gonna murder you soon.
Morgan: Ugh, god. So fearful, the British. Yeah, deeply silly. Gunn and Fred have a
California versus Texas talk. And—
LaToya: And Gunn is, of course, right.
Morgan: I fully agree with Gunn. California forever, baby. Fred’s hair is down in
this episode and I would like to note that. Because she’s been in, like, pigtails and,
like, buns and braids in a lot of this. And she looks so pretty. I—Amy Acker, looking
beautiful in this ep. I just wanted to shout out.
LaToya: It’s not Fuck Watch time, Morgan, jeez.
Morgan: But you know, it’s important to seed information so that the Fuck Watch
feels earned and exciting. [laughs]
LaToya: Well, you know what, Gunn is also right that Texas hates the black man.
[both laugh]


Morgan: Fred disagrees and I—and she says, “Well. Most of Texas doesn’t hate the
black man.” [both laugh] Angel’s, like, showing off the baby to Wes and is like, “He
likes you!” And Wes just goes, “I like him.” [both laugh]
LaToya: I think about that line delivery, “I like him too,” so often. Because it’s the
line delivery of someone who’s going to kidnap a baby.
Morgan: Yeah, truly the most awkward self-conscious kidnapping ever to happen.
Poor Wes. Poor—I’ll say it once, I’ll say it a million times this episode. Wes, buddy,
my dude. You are going through it and for that, I am sorry. [laughs] But be
different. [both laughing]
LaToya: “Be different.” But yeah. Lorne interrupts because he asks the crew to
come see his friend Kim.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: He’s like, what’s happening? The one who’s singing. So she’s singing,
she’s singing, it’s so lovely, right?
Morgan: Yeah!
LaToya: And then it’s not lovely.
[Clip from episode plays]
Kim: [singing] No love, no light left - no you…[growls, deep evil voice] I'll
hack your eyeballs out and rip your children in two!
LaToya: And it’s also another sign something is up with Angel—who of course, you
know, guzzling-guzzling—‘cause everyone’s freaked out. Angel’s not—like, he’s not
reacting to it. Like, it’s—he’s so chill, even when she says the part about ripping
your children in two. Dude!
Morgan: He’s like, cool! Like, what’s for lunch? Like—yeah, Angel is being very wild
in this episode. We come back to the Hyperion lobby, and Angel is so hyped, he
calls Gunn “G”?
LaToya: Oh, god. Oh, god. He calls him “G.”
Morgan: And I write—I write down in my notes, which makes me long for death.
[both laugh]


LaToya: I mean, he calls him G after Gunn takes a shot at Once More, With
Feeling. The feud is on, baby. [both laughing] Gunn says, “Yeah, who needs more
doctors in the world when you can have singing demons?” Ha-ha!
Morgan: [laughs] I love that so much. Yeah, Lorne’s like, “Oh, yeah, she was
wasting her life being a doctor when she could have been a singer.” [both laugh]
Yeah, fair enough, Gunn. So Kim explains that she joined this new band that
recently got really weird? Then Wes and Fred deduce that what’s going on with her,
like, they have their microscope and they analyzed her puke. And they’re like, it
looks like it’s a demonic infection, which is curable. And they, you know, are gonna
put her on a magical antibiotic. Which is nice to know—I like all of that stuff. Like, I
love when they take that girl’s eye on the back of the head away, which is—the girl
from The Originals. Like, I like when there is, like, the little solvable magical
occurrences that are little ailments. I would love—
LaToya: Little ailments.
Morgan: Would love a magical doctor show. [laughs]
LaToya: What would it be called, Morgan?
Morgan: Um, uh…Doctor Kazam! Doctor…[both laugh] Doctor Abracadabra!
[laughs] Doctor Spell.
LaToya: Doctor Cadabra!
Morgan: Doctor Cadabra! Okay. Let us write it. Let us write it. Anyone listening to
this, you don’t own Doctor Cadabra, we do. We wrote it down and mailed it to
ourselves. [laughs]
LaToya: So, Doctor Cadabra, we’re doing [inaudible] detective. We’re
doing—[laughs]
Morgan: Hundred percent. And Wes’s—the story about young Wes and his
pregnant friend that he helps out. [both laugh]
LaToya: And so, Gunn asks, like, why would the demons wanna look like
musicians? And you know what? Angel’s right. It is for the chicks, as we later see.
[both laugh]


Morgan: But I do not like it. I wrote down, like, saying “chicks,” whomst? Like, I
did not care for that. Fred is like, well, before we barge in, should we maybe call,
like, Cordy and Groo, get them to come back for backup? And Angel’s like, no. Like,
no, it’s not a big deal. Like, it’s just a couple demons. Like, we’re gonna handle this
ourselves. And he is deeply gung-ho about this fight, in a way that we don’t usually
see him to be.
LaToya: Well, speaking of gung-ho. Let’s go to the fighty mansion, shall we?
[laughs]
Morgan: [unenthused] Yay. Yeah, Justine’s training, she’s kicking ass, she’s
lecturing everyone. “Never trust a vampire.” Holtz, meanwhile—
LaToya: She’s ADR’ing all over the place. [both laugh]
Morgan: She—ADR’ing every which way but loose. Holtz is drinking tea out of a
styrofoam cup, which he calls a “cotton cup” and says he doesn’t like it. [laughs]
LaToya: With his freaking leather jacket. Like, he’s dressing like Angel. I called it
out last time, but like, he’s dressing like Angel. It looks so ridiculous, the leather
jacket.
Morgan: To catch your prey, sometimes you have to become them. [laughs]
LaToya: Oh, god. [laughs]
Morgan: So Justine kind of voices, for the first time ever, like, some concern
about, like, killing human beings and, like, killing Team Angel.
LaToya: Which came out of nowhere, ‘cause she had no problem with it in Loyalty.
Like, letting Gunn and Fred die, she had no problem with it.
Morgan: Yeah, it’s very—that feels very odd, but whatever. Holtz is like—
LaToya: I guess ‘cause it would have been the vampires that killed them and not
them specifically.
Morgan: Yeah, I guess maybe that is an important distinction to her. Holtz is like,
look, people who help—like, there are people—there are people and then there are
people who help vampires. He says, like, that’s a whole other kettle of fish.
[laughs] And Justine’s like, okay, like, I can justify that. Like, and calls Team Angel
“enemy soldiers.”


LaToya: Yeah, they’re really hammering home the soldier thing. Because Holtz is a
soldier person, but like, considering these guys are all duds, honestly.
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: Like, they never seem like an army or soldiers. Like, the cult thing was
always the thing. And it’s—when she’s questioning him, this is where Holtz brings
out, like, a knife. Like, he is about to stab her for rebelling.
Morgan: But I mean, then—I mean, but was he? Or was he just gonna cut his
apple? [laughs]
LaToya: ‘Cause here’s the thing, actually. It also says, from the script—
Morgan: Oh, yeah.
LaToya: That the knife is visible to—from wherever Wes will appear. So Wes will
see that and that will also put in his head that Holtz is not to be trusted on Justine’s
behalf. So maybe he wasn’t gonna kill her.
Morgan: Mmhmm. Yeah.
LaToya: But then again, he does leave her behind. [both laugh]
Morgan: Yeah, we’re having our cake and we’re eating it too in that way. Which I
think is cool and I think is good. And I appreciate, again, Wes is truly such a nice
guy for, like, giving a fuck about Justine, who, like—couldn’t be me. I’d be like, let
her—let whatever happens to her happens to her. Chips fall where they may, but.
LaToya: [laughs] If she dies, she dies!
Morgan: If she dies, she dies. But Wes is a better person than me, I guess.
LaToya: Well, yes. Wes is a good person, which is the problem.
Morgan: So he shows up. And Holtz is like, “Look. Like, you’re going through it, I
feel ya. Like, I am sympathetic to you, unlike my friend Justine here.” And I’m like,
okay, snaps for—you don’t get a cookie. Like, I hate you. [laughs]


LaToya: I kind of feel like I’m infantilizing Justine when I just talk about her, like,
coming from the kids’ table. But at the same time, that’s what Holtz does. He
undercuts her every single turn, whenever she speaks to Wesley.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: Like, when she’s like, “What the hell do you want?” “Don’t be rude,
Justine.” Or, when—later, when Wes is asking about, you know, who she lost and
she’s like, “I don’t want to tell you” and then Holtz says it for her. Like, he treats
her like a child.
Morgan: He treats her like a child and she acts very childishly. Like, I will back you
up and say I don’t think you’re infantilizing Justine. I think Justine is a very, like,
immature and rash person. And—like, as a character. And I mean, I know you and I
don’t feel like this is a particularly well-drawn character or not really a great
performance. But, like, I think that’s definitely baked into who this character is.
Like, Holtz is constantly speaking for her and, like, it seems like this big, like,
slow-motion tragedy, where he’s about to just, like, dick her over. And this can’t
end well for her and he’s just drawing her into his web and ruining her life along
with his nonsense. It really sucks. Like, in—I think with a more successful version of
this, we would feel really bad for Justine.
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: And we would want Wes to do what he does in sticking up for her. And
then feel very, like, heartbroken and betrayed when she does what she does. But
instead, I just was like, get away! [both laughing] Like, when the time came, I was
just screaming at Wes. I was like, run! Run, Wes! Don’t trust this bitch! [both
laugh] Like, so you know. Different strokes for different folks. [both laugh]
LaToya: Also, you know, now that they’re talking a lot about them being soldiers
and stuff. I know I said put Riley Finn in this cult. I’m gonna say also, considering
it’s a grief cult, put Jeffrey Dean Morgan in this cult.
Morgan: Yes! That would have been great. Again, like, if he’d picked up more
people. Yeah, that—again, if this had been Angel Rogues gallery come back, I think
that would have ruled. And felt really poignant and felt, like—like, that would have
tied in so much to the story it feels like they’re trying to tell—
LaToya: Mmhmm.


Morgan: About how, like, even if you change, it doesn’t undo your past. It still
matters when you did bad things and there is—there’s no atoning. There’s just
being better and being different and committing to being better and being different.
And you can’t, like—you just can’t undo the past. And that would have been cool
with a bunch of people from the past. But with only Holtz, I feel like that kind of,
like, dampens it a little bit. Like, it’s not as strong for me.
LaToya: Obviously, Holtz is a pretty good cult leader, as we see.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: People wanna fight for him. And you know, the military thing, again,
makes sense why Riley Finn would, for example, fall into his trap or whatever.
Like…I enjoy a lot of the story for what it is. But like, I just see how much better it
could be.
Morgan: Yeah. Yeah. It’s just not quite as good as it could be. But there’s still a lot
of—that said, there’s still a lot of great stuff around it and in it. And there are parts
of it that are very successful that I think are great.
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: So. Yeah. Our next scene is in Echo Park in a rehearsal space. The demon
band’s playing. They got their chicks surrounding them. And Angel—[laughs] Gunn
smashes a trashcan into the window and barges in. Angel shows up under a
blanket. [both laugh]
LaToya: Yes, so good.
Morgan: Which I did not notice until my second watch and I was like, what a little
dweeb. [both laugh]
LaToya: It’s so funny.
Morgan: These guys are so like, “Whoa! Mondo-bummer! Like, [laughs] are you
guys the A and R guys?” Like, I thought their vibe was very funny. I really liked
their—all the effects where it’s the idea that, like, they started off human and then,
like, the demon aspects of them just started, like, poking out. So I like their kind
of, like, half-human, half-demon looks. One of the guys calls Fred “baby” though,
and then, like, says he’s got the first ride on her, so they must die. [laughs]


LaToya: Yeah. And they do. Angel kicks ass so hard, he rips one of their arms off,
so. [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah. And Fred and Gunn are like, uhh…[laughter] and Angel’s like, “That
was fun!” This is not my beautiful vampire boss. This is not…[laughs] not the sad,
broody boy that I know. I don’t like it.
LaToya: It’s like, I love you guys, but if Cordy were here, she would have called
this out sooner. [laughs]
Morgan: Yeah. She absolutely would have. And I guess everybody’s just a little too
wrapped up in their own thing.
LaToya: She would have asked if this is another body-swap. [both laugh]
Morgan: “Are you an old man again?” [both laugh] And he’d be like, I’m an old
man always. [both laughing] And she’d be like, god, good point. So then, back at
the fighty manor, Wes is like, hey, look, I just don’t want anybody to get hurt. And
Holtz is like, me neither. I’m nice, too! And he says, Angelus is much more violent
than me. And Wes is like, “Angel. His name is Angel.” And that distinction does not
matter at all to Justine and Holtz. Like, the soul doesn’t mean shit, they do not
care. And this is the moment where Wes, like, can tell that Justine lost someone
and asks who it was.
[Clip from episode plays]
Holtz: Her twin sister Julia was murdered by vampires.
Wesley: You lost family. I'm sorry. Angel and the people I work with are my
family. And when I say I don't want to see anyone get hurt…[Justine grunts
in pain] I mostly mean them.
Morgan: And Holtz is like, hmm. Okay. Like, not phased at all by him having
Justine, you know, like, by the throat with a knife—like…Justine, take your hint, girl.
[laughs]
LaToya: But that’s also foreshadowing, ‘cause she gets him back for that one.
Morgan: Mmhmm!
LaToya: Piece of shit.


Morgan: Holtz is like, “You’re an honest man. Me too.” And Wes is like, “Uh, no
you’re fucking not.” And—
LaToya: Maybe you once were, but not anymore, dude.
Morgan: Yeah. And Holtz is like, “Look, I’m not the problem. Angel maybe being
about to kill his son is the problem. And if you don’t do something about that, I
will.” So he gives him a day to “do what’s right.”
LaToya: I gotta say, I am kind of disappointed in the Holtz stuff right now. Because
of—you would think by this point there’d be even a slight introspection on his part
about the loss of his soul. Like, maybe a reevaluation. ‘Cause we talked about this,
like, early in the story. But like, here, it’s like, not there at all.
Morgan: Even—real people who even are pretty single minded have moments of
introspection, and shading. And—or things they do that don’t fully line up or make
sense. Like, Holtz feels very much all one thing. I think that the story’s dealing in
enough, like, cool, complicated territories, that it could stand to have a villain that
has more going on.
LaToya: Mmhmm. And it—like, Justine maybe should be the character who brings
it out of him. But like I said, like, she doesn’t—it’s like when he and Wes are having
their conversations and then she chimes in. It’s just like—again, coming from the
kids’ table. It’s just—there’s not a level of gravitas coming from her that allows—to
bring out the introspection on his part, you know?
Morgan: Yeah. I fully agree and like you said, he’s always shutting her down. So
it—we don’t see anybody, like, validate her point of view. Which I feel like kind of
feels like the show not really lending much credence to the ideas that she’s bringing
up. And like, I mean, in an ideal world, she’d be adding some nuance and there
could be, like, some conflict between the two of them about what good there is to
be done. And, like, you know, can this be more than just revenge and things like
that. But it’s just kinda not there. And I mean, I guess, I—there’s not—I mean, I
like the amount of time we spend with Team Angel, and I’d rather be with them.
Because I do think—I was really worried early on when I didn’t really respond to
both Holtz and Justine that they were gonna be this, like, huge part of this season.
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: But I do think that them being pretty simple has allowed their story to be
pretty slight, and has allowed us to just spend more time with our heroes. And


honestly, I’ve been fine with that [LaToya laughs] ‘cause I’d rather hang out with
our buddies. [giggles]
LaToya: Yes, of course. Speaking of our buddies, Lorne is telling Connor a story
about the rat pack, with stuffed animals!
Morgan: So cute. So cute, so cute. Connor’s giggling. He likes it. Angel, Gunn and
Fred return, and Angel goes right for the blood. Ugh!
LaToya: Mmhmm. Doesn’t even check on Connor. In fact, he’s snippy about
Connor crying.
Morgan: Yeah. Lorne’s like, “Hey, I think he needs some papa love.” And Angel’s
like, “He needs a lot right now. What he needs is to grow up.” [laughs]
Everybody—I draw the eye emoji in my notes [both laugh] ‘cause everybody,
like—[makes double-take sound]. Like, nobody likes this. It’s deeply uncomfortable.
I write in my notes, Angel yells “shut up” at a baby.
LaToya: Nope, don’t like it, don’t care for it.
Morgan: Don’t care for it.
LaToya: Fred’s like, what the fuck? He’s just a baby. To which Angel says, “He’s
not gonna be a baby for long if he doesn’t shut up.”
Morgan: I am unwell. He then throws a glass against the wall and I’m like, who are
you, Klaus Mikaelson? Like, this is…this is such uncharacteristic behavior. It’s so
jarring and it’s so upsetting. Fred takes Connor, Gunn steps up with the crossbow,
and they’re like, what the fuck? And that’s when Angel has—like, finally has his own
wakeup call and says to himself, like, what’s wrong with me?
LaToya: And you did not remember at all what the reason was?
Morgan: No. And I was so absolutely horrified. So, we pick up. Angel’s like,
“Something’s not right.” And Lorne’s like, “Yeah, you’ve been drinking a lot of
blood.” And he’s like, “Yeah, this newest batch of pig’s blood, it came from the
same butcher. But it’s a lot tastier than it usually is.” And so they kind of are like,
okay, well, it was really weird that you, like, got really jacked up for that fight and
then you kind of crashed. And Fred’s like, “Yeah, like, my aunt Viola and her
Southern Comfort.” Angel kind of, like, is defensive, which I appreciate, when he’s
like, “I’m not—like, vampire. Need to drink something red. Doesn’t mean I’m a
blood-aholic.”


LaToya: To which I just say—usually I do this at the end of the episode. But I think
we need to do it now. We need an intervention with possible blood-aholic Angel,
with a certain WB episode. [Morgan gasps] Hit it, bitch.
[DUBBA-DUBBA-WB jingle plays]
Angel is a vampire
Does he even like TV?
"I think he'll like The WB."
They got that hot teen drama
To ease the pain and trauma
And here's the episode that he
Needs to see (aw yeah!)
LaToya: The episode I’ve chosen for Angel at this very moment, just in
case—’cause you don’t wanna believe you’re a blood-aholic. But sometimes you
are.
Morgan: Nobody does.
LaToya: Is the 7th Heaven episode, Season 1, Episode 10, The Last Call for Aunt
Julie. [Morgan laughs] If I may read the summary of the episode.
Morgan: I beg of you.
LaToya: When Eric's sister, Julie spends Thanksgiving with the Camden family,
they discover that she has a serious drinking problem. [Morgan gasps] To the point
where—because little Simon won’t give her the key to the liquor cabinet—she
throws him on the couch!
Morgan: Ah!
LaToya: She chucks that blond boy! [Morgan laughs] And Angel! You’re telling your
baby to shut up, you’re throwing glasses like you’re Klaus Mikaelson. You could be a
blood-aholic. It’s a possibility. Don’t shut that down. [Morgan laughs] Look at Aunt
Julie.
Morgan: Of course the—of course the alcoholic on 7th Heaven is “Aunt Julie.” [both
laugh] Nothing ever’s been more on brand, ever. [both laugh]
LaToya: Okay, now we can return to the episode proper.


[DUBBA-DUBBA-WB jingle plays]
Angel is a vampire
Does he even like TV?
"I think he'll like The WB."
They got that hot teen drama
To ease the pain and trauma
And here's the episode that he
Needs to see (aw yeah!)
Morgan: So we go to Wes. He’s walking home. He sees a father and son and gets
sad. Then, he clowns on Justine for being so bad at following him. [laughs]
LaToya: She’s so bad at following him.
Morgan: And she’s like, “I just wanna talk alone.” So then Wes says…
[Clip from episode plays]
Wesley: Holtz talks about justice and it’s stirring, but what he wants is
revenge. He's driven by it, blinded by it. And if you, me, or anybody else gets
in his way, he’ll kill for it.
Morgan: Elegantly laid out. Justine is like, “You’re wrong. He’s nice, actually.”
[both laugh]
LaToya: “He’s done a lot for me, for all of us!” What the fuck has he done for all of
you, really? Like, I see him interact with you.
Morgan: Does he know anyone else’s names?
LaToya: He knows—he learned Aubrey’s name last week. [both laugh] Because
she’s like, “I have a presentation.” [laughs]
Morgan: And he was like, [whispering] “Which one is this again? Justine?” [laughs]
LaToya: But he doesn’t know, like, who—all these randos. All these men wearing
sweaters and fighting vampires.
Morgan: Yeah. None of—I don’t think any of them have names though, to be fair.
So I love Wes’s response to, like, Justine saying, “He’s actually good.” He says, “It
sounds like a nice cult.”


LaToya: Yeah, it does! [both laughing]
Morgan: I wrote that in all caps in my notes and drew hearts around it. Wes is
done. He has had enough. And I write in my notes also, hello Wes, are you free on
Thursday because I am also free on Thursday. [laughs]
LaToya: He is not, ‘cause he has baby kidnapping to do.
Morgan: [laughing] Oh, right. Oops. Well, look, I’ll make time, whenever he’s free.
LaToya: Yeah, she calls him blind, saying that it’s easier for him to hate Holtz than
himself because, you know, he’s gonna betray his friend. And Wes is like, fuck off.
It turns out Holtz was following Justine and she couldn’t tell, because she’s super
bad at this.
Morgan: I do wanna briefly go back. When she’s like, “You’re blind because you
hate Holtz so much.” And Wes is like, bitch, I got enough hate in my heart for both
of us. [both laughing] Like, essentially he’s like, “I hate us both. Byeee!” Just…this
poor, poor self-loathing man, just really going through it. And I feel very bad for
him and I usually don’t have a lot of patience for men who are, like, sad and
angsty, being just, like, naval-gazey and sad and [gruff voice] making tough
decisions and talking like this. [normal voice] But Wes is—he’s in a pickle, and I
really do feel for him. [both laugh]
LaToya: Well, good thing he’s not [gruff voice] talking like this.
Morgan: [British accent] Yes, he’s talking like this. [both laugh] Sounds like a nice
cult.
LaToya: Okay, Cruella. [both laugh]
Morgan: So, yeah. Holtz is there. He followed her.
LaToya: Creepy, huh?
Morgan: She’s bad at following, she’s bad at realizing she’s being followed.
[laughs] Justine, do better.
LaToya: What is she good at? [laughs]
Morgan: Getting beat up for schemes? [both laugh]


LaToya: Getting beaten up even when it’s not a scheme, too, honestly.
Morgan: Truly. Wearing very clompy boots. [both laughing]
LaToya: Clompy!
Morgan: I feel—you could—that’s why she’s bad at following is you can hear those
chunky boots from a mile away. Clomp, clomp, clomp. [both laugh] So our next
scene takes place at the Hyperion lobby. LaToya, how were you doing when Angel
was scared to hold his own son?
LaToya: Not well! He loves his son and now he doesn’t wanna hold his son ‘cause
he’s scared, no!
Morgan: I was fucking losing my shit. So this is where we reveal that there are
traces of Connor’s blood in the pig’s blood that Angel got. And Angel knows this and
confirms this because lately, Connor has smelled like food. So, watched this with
Michael for the first time. And he yelled, I yelled. Neither of us could believe
something so fucked up was happening. This is horrifying. Like, even for Wolfram &
Hart, this is, like, one of the most vicious things I’ve seen in something, in a
minute. Admirable writing, in terms of thinking of fucked up shit to do.
LaToya: I mean, I guess, technically, it wasn’t even Wolfram & Hart, ‘cause it’s
Sahjhan’s plan—
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: That Lilah went with ‘cause—
Morgan: Yeah.
LaToya: Wolfram & Hart was just testing the blood.
Morgan: Dang. You gotta be, no pun intended, cold-blooded to do that. You gotta
really want to be ruthless and awful. Because feeding someone their own child is
absolutely disgusting. [laughs]
LaToya: It’s kind of interesting, though, that while Sahjhan’s been talking about,
you know, how Angel’s his nemesis and everything and he brought Holtz back to kill
him—
Morgan: Mmhmm.


LaToya: His focus seems to have been on killing Connor, in this episode.
Morgan: Hm, so weird. Hm, very weird.
LaToya: Hm.
Morgan: Hm.
LaToya: Wonder what that’s all about.
Morgan: I do. So Lorne is like, “Okay, they wanted you to get the taste for it.” And
Fred’s like, “Who’s they, though?” Cut to. [laughs] Lilah is in a halter top.
LaToya: She’s looking goodt, with a T!
Morgan: Write in my notes, all caps, Lilah in a halter top drinking scotch, drool!
[both laugh] I—that I wrote any other note in this scene is remarkable, because
good god. She looks great. She’s doing little cat sounds in the mirror at herself.
[laughs]
LaToya: Well, actually, at Angel. [laughs]
Morgan: Mmhmm. A woman on the edge. She, like, senses Angel behind her, even
though she can’t see him. And she’s like, “We’re getting too close, this is gross.”
[both laugh] I love it. Angel, he’s there to do threats. And he’s like, “You know,
with blood transfusions, I could keep you alive indefinitely.” Like, dot-dot-dot, the
unsaid, “while I torture you.” [laughs]
LaToya: And he tells her, like, just to cut the shit and talk to him like a person for
once.
Morgan: Yes, which is great. Like, it’s cool to see them, like, sit down and really
have to, like, fully have it out. Lilah kinda says, like, “Look, I do what I have to do.
And like, I do it every fucking day when I put on my game face.” Angel is seething
so hard in this scene. Like, David Boreanaz is really bringing it. Angel says…
[Clip from episode plays]
Angel: The thing about a game face, Lilah? You wear it long enough, it stops
being something you can put on and take off.


Lilah: Wow. We’ve spent so much time and money on you, you’re so pivotal
to the coming cataclysm that I sometimes forget how dense you can be. The
game face? The one I worked so hard to get? I became that years ago.
Morgan: I love Lilah in this scene so much. I love the way she mocks him, where
she’s like, “I’m not one of your helpless that you, like, can help. Like, I’m fine. I am
clear-eyed and I know what I’m doing. And I’m fine with the path that I’m on. So,
like, back off. We are enemies.”
LaToya: Yeah, she even brings up her mom, too, during all this, like we were
talking about last episode.
Morgan: Yeah, which I thought was interesting. Like, it—that she even tries to
justify it a little bit, I do think tells you just how much she’s kind of wavering.
‘Cause she has that line where she was like, “I was feeling a little all, like, what’s it
about? But I’m glad you came here and, like, clarified for me that I’m on the right
fucking path.” And I’ve been very interested in her—like, in her morality, this
season. It’s been a good season for Lilah. ‘Cause you know, we had Lindsey’s back
and forth thing. And I’m preferring Lilah’s. I—she’s just so goddamn cool.
LaToya: But you know who doesn’t like it? Sahjhan! [both laugh] Who thinks she’s
double-crossing him ‘cause he couldn’t hear what they were saying.
Morgan: Fucking Three’s Company-ass bullshit! [both laugh]
LaToya: “Drinking with my sworn enemy!” Angel’s like, who the fuck are you?
Morgan: And Sahjhan’s like, “I’m not fucking telling you.” [laughs] And Lilah’s like,
“You fucking idiot. Like, you’ve told him everything you need to tell by showing up
here. Like, that you’re his sworn enemy and that you brought Holtz back and that
you came to me when that didn’t work.”
LaToya: And he has his name because Lilah said it. So. [both laugh]
Morgan: So Angel’s like, “Hey, why do you want to kill me?” And Sahjhan’s like,
“You’ll pay.” To which Angel responds, “For what?” [both laugh]
LaToya: Then he disappears. Goober.
Morgan: Deeply, deeply cute. Hey. What do you think of this next scene that takes
place in the Hyperion lobby when Wes comes in, looking to do a little kidnapping?
[laughs]


LaToya: Well, my first note is, Wes coming to kidnap Connor. What do you think?
[laughs]
Morgan: As if I, like, wasn’t in enough knots, in this episode.
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: This sequence is so tense, is so masterfully done. I cannot believe I
watched it two times in the same week and I have not dropped dead of a heart
attack. [laughs]
LaToya: Imagine watching it live! [laughs]
Morgan: How did you live? [laughs]
LaToya: I barely—I lived because there was a six-week break after this episode.
Morgan: Monsters. [both laugh]
LaToya: It’s like, yes, I was like, I wanna know what happens next. But also, I’m
like, I need a break from this show. [laughs]
Morgan: Oh, yeah, you needed a second to breathe. Whereas me, like, the
gremlin, is like, next episode, next episode! Wes is packing Connor’s bag and then
Lorne shows up and is like, “What are you doing?” And Wes is like, “I’m taking
Connor. I talked to Angel about it. Like, everything’s cool.”
LaToya: Yeah, and Wes doesn’t even know about the blood thing.
Morgan: Like, that wouldn’t have helped—
LaToya: It would not.
Morgan: [laughing] For him to know about it. So Connor starts fussing and Wes
sings a little bit to him to soothe him. This is where I do wanna ding—this is my one
gripe. A lot of people are, like, accidentally singing in front of Lorne this year. [both
laugh] Like—and Wes is the person who it makes least sense to do it.
LaToya: I mean, he is not thinking straight. He is about to do a kidnap, but still.


Morgan: Yes. I do agree that he is under duress and I will allow it to slide. But I
did—I did—I was just like, huh. Lots of accidental singing this season. But—
LaToya: You sing—as we know from all of our singing on podcasts, you sing more
often than you think you would.
Morgan: And I’m like, look, Wes isn’t me. Like, if it was—like, if he was singing S
Club 7’s Viva La Fiesta [both laughing] to this baby…then maybe I could buy it. But
instead he’s like, “too-loo-loo!” And I’m like, what is this? [both laugh] So this
moment where Lorne reads him and they just look at each other. And it’s like,
okay, what are we gonna do about this? Ahhh!
LaToya: I just—every time I watch this, I’m like, hey, Wesley, maybe don’t beat
the shit out of Lorne. That’s not good. That’s bad, Wesley, don’t do that.
Morgan: It’s like, I’m sorry but if you’re beating up Lorne, you’re on the wrong side
of history.
LaToya: Now’s the time to come clean, Wesley.
Morgan: Very much. And I was like—this whole time, I was like, pick up a phone.
Call Cordelia Chase. She has been in this with you long enough that she knows that
you are trying to do the right thing. And she knows that Angel, you know, wants
them to kill him if, you know—if it comes to that. Like, all that stuff. That’s who you
need to talk to. And I think it—they handled, like, Charisma being on her
honeymoon, like, so well in terms of the plotting, like, where they placed it.
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: I was really surprised when you said that that was, like, her honeymoon.
‘Cause it feels like it’s so necessary for her to be gone for this to happen.
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: Which I thought was really interesting.
[AD BREAK]
Morgan: So, uh, Wes and Lorne fight. And Wes knocks him out. And he grabs
Connor and he’s gonna go. Then Angel shows up. How do you imagine it feels to be
about to kidnap a child and [LaToya laughs] be looking its father in the eye?
[laughs]


LaToya: Not great, Bob. Like…ughh! See, this is the stuff we can feel so bad for
Wesley about. Because, like, the Fred/Gunn stuff, obviously, we took him to task,
as you may all remember.
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: But here, I just—I can’t be mad at him. I’m just—I’m frustrated with how
he did not tell anyone—
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And he did this. But like…ugh! I don’t know. It stresses me out.
Morgan: You can see where he’s coming from. Like, I think they do such a good
job at showing you why he feels like there’s nothing else to be done. Like, that—I
mean, ‘cause it isn’t. There aren’t a lot of other options. Like, I mean, calling
Cordelia I think is the one. But I mean, she’s not there. Like, what if she told
Angel? Like, then it’s not worth telling—like, and all that stuff. Like, he is in a very
tight spot and it is very tense. And Alexis Denisof plays it so wonderfully. Like, so
does David Boreanaz with, like, the—like, how he’s so relaxed around Wes. And
like, so—like, he’s truly playing the relationship as it’s always been. Whereas, like,
Wes is freaking out and is like, “Yeah, I was gonna take Connor for a sleepover, so
we could go to the park across from my place.” And Angel’s like, “You know what,
like, in light of everything, that’s probably a good idea.” And then Wes says,
“Wanna say goodbye?” And Angel holds his son for the last time.
LaToya: [sighs] When you say it like that…[both laugh] thanks a lot, Morgan.
Morgan: I—I did not know how to be. I did not know what to do. Angel is just, like,
cuddling with his son and is like, “Hey, there’s this guy, like, Sahjhan? Have you
heard of him? Like, can you look him up before you go?” And Wes, like—you can
just feel the tension. He’s like, I have to get out of here, I have to get out of here.
Like, when are they gonna find the body? Like, this is—you know, this situation is
untenable. To make matters even worse, Gunn and Fred come back. I write in all
caps, tense, exclamation point, ticking clock, exclamation point. I want to die. Wes,
like, finally makes it out with Connor. And it—he has, like, one last moment where
he, like, looks over his shoulder at all of them. And he’s like, “Goodbye, I guess.”
And it’s just like…everyth—like, those moments are the things that, like, absolutely
destroy me, when you see someone knowing everything is about to change. What
did you think of Gunn being like, “Don’t worry, we’ll stay up with you”?


LaToya: What do you think I thought of that? Yay!
Morgan: I bet you liked it? [both laugh] I wrote so many hearts in my notes. I—
LaToya: I’m about to have more hearts for Gunn later, actually, in this episode.
Morgan: Hell yes, hell yes. But then we hear the soft sounds, the dulcet tones, of
Lorne, coming to. But before anything can come of that, Holtz and his goons enter.
So Angel’s like, “Hey, Holtz. Do you know why Sahjhan hates me?” [laughs] And
Holtz is like—
LaToya: Yeah, “I didn’t quite get what his deal is,” he says. [both laughing]
Morgan: And Holtz is like, “I don’t fucking care. Where’s the baby?” And Angel’s
like, “Uh, he’s out.”
LaToya: Baby’s Day Out.
Morgan: Baby’s Day Out. I wish Connor was out on a fun little baby errand. [both
laugh]
Kristin: I’m actually gonna—I’m gonna call for the Corner myself. [laughter]
I’ve—I’ve—’cause how would you know? How would you know that I have a story—
LaToya: About Baby’s Day Out?
[KRISTIN'S CORNER jingle plays]
Kristin's Corner! Kristin's Corner!
It's all Riley sucks and what the fuck
And horny is hot
Kristin's Corner is the place
For very deep thoughts
Kristin: It’s not a big deal. But it was in the movie theater during Baby’s Day Out
that I got felt up for the first time, by a boy. [Morgan gasps] So…[pause] LaToya,
for the—for the listeners at home, LaToya’s entire face is hidden in her hands. She
has probably died. She’s not really moving or breathing. Morgan’s mouth is agape.
Do you know how rare it is to get a reference to Baby’s Day Out?! [laughter] This is
your least favorite Kristin’s Corner to date.
LaToya: I hate it.


[laughter]
Morgan: This is my most favorite. I, um—
Kristin: [laughs] It was so unexpected.
Morgan: Did this boy have a fun middle school name that we can bleep out? I love
hearing the names of people’s middle school crushes.
Kristin: His name was [redacted].
Morgan: Ha! He does! [Kristin laughing] For the listener, he did have a great
fucking name. It’s bleeped, for privacy. But send me—
LaToya: What a fucking name.
Morgan: If you’d like to DM me on Instagram your middle school crushes names,
[laughter] just ‘cause—
LaToya: Don’t be a creep!
Morgan: I love a good, like, middle school, high school name. It’s great. [laughs]
Kristin: Anyway, on that note, get the fuck out of my corner.
[laughter]
LaToya: I would love to.
[Kristin laughs]
Morgan: No, let me stay forever!
[laughter]
[KRISTIN'S CORNER jingle plays]
Kristin's Corner! Kristin's Corner!
Morgan: Wow. [LaToya laughs] I wanna briefly highlight Lorne’s big fighting move,
which is singing a high note that, like, shatters glass when he wakes up. I’m
obsessed.


LaToya: Fred shoots a guy in the back!
Morgan: Which is also very cool, but I feel like that’s a little more traditional as a
fighting move than, like, singing a super high pitch.
LaToya: But they’re people. [laughs]
Morgan: That is bad. But they are people that are attacking you. You know, that’s
self defense, I guess.
LaToya: Poorly.
Morgan: So Holtz runs. Fred is like, “I better call Wes. Like, you know, to let him
know what’s going on.” And Lorne’s like, “Um? Actually. Wes did this to me. He’s
been to see Holtz twice behind your back, and he’s taking the baby, not for the
night, but for good.”
LaToya: Cut to Wes with a baby and a suitcase.
Morgan: And who comes limping around? [laughs] But old Clompy Boots herself.
LaToya: [laughing] Clompy Boots.
Morgan: Justine. She’s like, “You were right. He doesn’t give a shit about me and
he went after the baby.” And Wes is just like—like, at first, he had a gun on her and
he was like, “Don’t come closer.” And then his stupid heart gets in the way and he
can’t hear me yelling through the TV, “Wes, run, Wes, don’t trust that bitch.”
[laughs]
LaToya: Yeah, and she’s like, “I’ll kill him for this.” Like, what are you gonna do?
You aren’t good. [laughing]
Morgan: Yeah, like—
LaToya: You can’t—you can’t tail someone for shit. You—he can kick your ass.
Like. What are you gonna do? Poison his tea? He would probably know. You’re not
good at this.
Morgan: With whose arms and legs will you do this, Justine? Like…[both laugh]
and Wes is, like, sweet and wants to help, and is like, “We gotta get you to a
hospital.” And she’s like, “Yeah, yeah,” and then she lunges at him, slits his fucking
throat, and takes the baby!


LaToya: So Justine slitting Wes’s throat is the part that traumatized as a youth.
That—
Morgan: Oh my gosh.
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: I mean, that’s really scary.
LaToya: I don’t—like, people—stabbing people in the neck, slicing things. That’s
the reason I’ve only seen one E.R. episode, and it’s the one where, like, a
psychopath, like, injects people and leaves them for dead. That’s the one episode
I’ve seen, I’ve never watched another episode of E.R. ever again. [laughs]
Morgan: No. You don’t need to—don’t, don’t. There’s a lot of slicing.
LaToya: The episode—middle school me—this is what I was doing in middle school.
When I was going to, like, nerd things—
Morgan: Mmhmm.
LaToya: And we’re all watching E.R. ‘cause everyone watches E.R. Like, I guess I’ll
watch this one episode. People are getting injected by a psychopath and it ends
with, like, them gurgling their own blood and dying! [laughs]
Morgan: Ooh, no, no, no, no. ‘Cause that’s the thing is—
LaToya: I did not sleep that night.
Morgan: On these shows, like, there’s a lot of quote-unquote violence. But it’s
mostly, like, punch, kick, chop. Like, you don’t often see a slice. Like—
LaToya: Yeah.
Morgan: I mean, you see a gentle palm-slicing many a time. But not this. And this
is really, really upsetting.
LaToya: This aired after 7th Heaven. [both laugh]
Morgan: Right after Aunt Julie’s intervention. [both laugh] Can I guess that your
hearts for Gunn are in this next scene?


LaToya: Yes. Yes, they are. [laughs] Gunn just keeps sticking up for Wes this
entire scene. They’re still friends, even if Wes doesn’t know it!
Morgan: That, like—that is—that helps. I feel like that softens the blow on the
throat-slitting, the idea that he still has a friend. Wes isn’t answering his phone or
his pager. Angel’s like, “Then I gotta find Holtz.” Gunn really, again, tries to
de-escalate things. He’s like, “Maybe you should, like, think about this and what
you want.” And Angel’s like, “I’m not gonna think about shit,” and like, lunges at
him and they start fighting. And I wanna give Fred some points for really, like,
worming her way in between two very strong, very intimidating people and shoving
them apart. Like, that was such a—that felt like such a decisive and, like, bold
action on her part that I really loved.
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: Good for her, you go, girl. But yeah, she’s like, “Look, there’s one thing
that matters and that is finding Connor.” And Angel’s off and Fred and Gunn are
like, “We have to find Wes before Angel does.” It’s really come to this. [laughs]
LaToya: Ah. I don’t like it.
Morgan: Mmhmm. I don’t like it one bit. So our next scene’s, like, outside Holtz’s
house. Lilah and her whole, like, crew of Wolfram & Hart hired mercenaries are
there. And Holtz hasn’t come back to the mansion. And they get word that he’s
actually downtown.
LaToya: I am curious how Wolfram & Hart heard what was happening.
Morgan: Informants? I—I mean, the same way they found out Holtz was
downtown. I assume they have people, like, looking for him and, like, tailing him at
a distance and keeping aware of his movements.
LaToya: Mmhmm.
Morgan: But this is when Angel kind of, like, sneaks in one of the Humvees and,
like, throws a guy out. And so he’s also in the big chase to find Holtz. Then our next
scene, Justine in Wes’s car picks up Holtz. And Holtz, like, looks back at Connor in
his carseat. It looks like he’s doing okay. He’s still in his overalls. And he’s like, “I’m
your dad now and Justine’s your mom.” I write, “ewww!” in all caps. [both laugh]
Noo!


LaToya: Oh, yeah, she’s also—she’s calling him Daniel all episode. It’s like, you
guys have no chemistry.
Morgan: Yeah, I’m like—it’s like, no one can put their finger on what this is. [both
laugh]
LaToya: What is their deal?
Morgan: What is their deal? I don’t care for it. He tells Connor that his new name
is Steven Franklin Thomas, and that they’re gonna live together on, like, a ranch in
Utah. No. I say. This is when I put my foot down and I say no, that’s not gonna
happen. [laughs] Angel’s, like, Humvee cuts them off. We have a little—tiny little
car chase that ends pretty quick. And we’re all suddenly in a big standoff. Holtz has
got the baby. Angel’s in the middle and Lilah and all her mercenaries are on the
other side, with a bunch of big old guns. And Lilah’s like, “Give me the baby.” And
Angel says, “Don’t.”
LaToya: And I say, it’s Fuck Watch time!
[Morgan laughs]
[FUCK WATCH jingle plays]
Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing
Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing
Fuck Watch!
LaToya: It’s Gunn. [both laugh] He’s versus Texas, he loves California. He sticks
up for Wes even though things have gone bad. It’s Gunn.
[GUNN jingle plays]
Check that tux, check that bod
Sign me up for the Gunn Squad
Did someone say Golden God?
I’m all in on the Gunn Squad
Gameboy-playing himbo king
Sign me up for the Gunn Squad
Even when he’s curmudgeonin’
I’m all in on the Gunn Squad
Bang bang! You know Charles gonna shoot his shot
Bang bang! Cracking skulls up and down the block
Bang bang! Got a smile that make the panties drop
Bang bang! Gunn Squad, Gunn Squad


Morgan: I’m dec—like, deciding if this is a good time to shoot my Fred shot. ‘Cause
she just looks so pretty and she’s so brave. You know what? Fred. I’m so proud of
her. She was very brave in this ep, and her hair looked so pretty, and I just wanna
give her a hug. I’m proud of her.
LaToya: [laughing] Once again, our Fuck Watches are gonna fuck.
Morgan: Look, I love that our Fuck Watches are coming in pairs now. [both laugh]
[FUCK WATCH jingle plays]
Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing
Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing
Fuck Watch!
Morgan: So it’s interesting that at this moment, Angel would rather Holtz have the
kid than Wolfram & Hart have the kid. And again, that’s bringing up that, like, he
knows Holtz is a better person than, you know, Lilah. Which is, you
know—[laughing] a world’s smallest, uh, you know, barrier to jump over, but it’s
something. So Lilah’s like, “Holtz, these are fucking automatic weapons we have. I
know you don’t know what those are, but they’re gonna fuck you up.” And Angel’s
like, “Yeah, but also, you’re not shooting which means you want Connor alive.”
“And we all want Connor alive, right?” like, says Holtz. And then Sahjhan appears
and is like, “Not me!” [both laugh]
LaToya: And Lilah is like, who cares what Sahjhan wants? He’s impotent in this
dimension. [both laugh]
Morgan: Men do not like being called impotent, Lilah.
LaToya: “I’m not a eunuch!”
Morgan: [laughs] I wish Sahjhan had said that. So Angel, like, beats up a
mercenary and grabs a gun and points it right at Lilah. Holtz is like, “Look, let me
take the baby. I’ll take him, I’ll raise him away from you. He won’t know who you
are, but he’ll be safe.” And Angel agrees to it. And Holtz is like, “I don’t know.
Maybe it’s easier to just kill him, ‘cause how could I ever know that you wouldn’t
come after me? Maybe it’s just better this way.” And Angel says, “No. Like, please.
Take him.” I’m unwell.
LaToya: Mr. Dad.


Morgan: I mean, is there a better choice here, LaToya? Do you think there is? Like,
I don’t know if there is.
LaToya: There’s not, no. There—every other choice would end in bloodshed,
basically. A lot of difficult choices happening, this episode.
Morgan: Yeah. We’re over here—
LaToya: But Sahjhan’s like, “No, it’s very easy.” [both laugh] Oh, Sahjhan.
Morgan: So he opens this portal to Quortoth, which he calls “the darkest of dark
worlds.” And he’s basically like, “I’ll put all of you in there if you don’t kill the baby.”
LaToya: ‘Cause yeah, he’s like, really versus this baby now, even though Angel’s
supposed to be his sworn nemesis.
Morgan: I’m like, that’s really embarrassing. Having a baby nemesis? That’s
humiliating. [both laugh] If your nemesis is a baby, you’re pathetic. [both laugh] I
have no—I have no sympathy. I’m not intimidated by you. Good luck fighting your
baby. So Lilah’s like, “Okay, fine. Kill the baby. Like, I don’t give a shit. I don’t
wanna go to hell.” [laughing] And Holtz, for no reason, shoves Justine—
LaToya: [simultaneously, laughing] He’s just like, “Bitch-ass, move.” Yeah!
Morgan: I’m like, what time did that save? That is very much, like, Arrested
Development, like, “we switched the coolers.” It’s like, that’ll buy you a second.
Like, he shoves her and then runs.
LaToya: And she’s just shouting “Daniel.” [both laugh]
Morgan: Ugh. Justine is cringe. [LaToya laughs] I-I-I—Justine is posting cringe on
main whenever she calls him Daniel. I cannot, I will not. Holtz runs into the portal.
And Sahjhan’s like, “Cool, works for me.” [laughs] And Justine runs away. Lilah’s
annoyed. Sahjhan departs with a, “Have a great summer.” And then we’re just left
with Angel. Just, like, on the ground, like, whimpering in pain.
LaToya: Yeah, Lilah says, “Let him suffer.”
Morgan: How did you go six weeks? Were you just sleepless?
LaToya: With the nightmares, on a loop of Wes being—having his throat slit. So
there was that.


Morgan: I—
LaToya: I didn’t wanna be reminded of that. I didn’t wanna see that in the
Previouslys, so I was good. [laughs]
Morgan: Fair enough. You—just, again, I just wanna salute you for getting through
that. Because good—that would have been a painful hiatus. And that’s Sleep Tight
and it absolutely destroyed me.
LaToya: Your soul is aching, as the song would say.
Morgan: The song would and should say that. [both laugh] This, like—I gotta say,
it was really nice having a happy Angel while we had him.
LaToya: Yeah. Wesley’s bleeding out in the park right now.
Morgan: Every second is another second Wesley is bleeding out, alone, in the park,
left alone with his own thoughts.
LaToya: But still more fun than Season 6 of Buffy! Up top!
Morgan: Woo! [clicks tongue] [both laugh]
LaToya: Hit ‘em with the plugs, buddy.
Morgan: Alright. You can follow us on Twitter and Instagram, @AngelOnTopCast.
You can find us on Patreon by going to angelontop.com, where we have a live
watch that we did a first impressions from a while ago that you can catch up with, if
you’d like. Very fun. Cordy and Gunn mess around—that we had a really fun time
talking about. And our movie podcast, Girls on Film, which had a Down with Love
episode, a Legally Blond episode, and will soon have an Anna Kareninna episode.
And LaToya, where can people find you?
[pause]
LaToya: Don’t.
Morgan: If you want to find me, you can find me @LorganMutich. I retweet LaToya
a fair amount, so. [both laugh] So maybe you can get enough of that through
there—maybe you’ll find her through that. [both laugh]


LaToya: Later, Scoobies.
Morgan: Later, skaters!
[Angel On Top theme plays]

