Angel On Top
Episode 3.03: That Old Gang of Mine
[CHIME]
LaToya:​ Welcome back to Angel On Top, a podcast where we watch and discuss
every episode of Angel, one by one, spoiler free, and in tandem with Buffering the
Vampire Slayer. I'm your host, LaToya Ferguson. And before I tell you about
today's episode of Angel, we are doing a special intro installment of Kristin's Corner,
right here at the top. Take it away, Kristin.
[KRISTIN'S CORNER jingle plays]
Kristin's Corner! Kristin's Corner!
Kristin:​ Oh my gosh, hi everybody. Here I am, it's so early to hear my voice.
Usually I'm here to talk about, you know, Cordelia or Cordelia. Or even sometimes
Cordelia. But today, I'm actually here to tell you two other joyful things. Believe it
or not, there are some joyful things outside of simply Cordelia. In the Buffering and
Angel On Top universes, for many a season now, we have been so honored that our
Scoobies—you listeners—have run holiday gift exchanges. There are now two
holiday gift exchanges, and as we have become one, just like the Spice Girls always
said we would, here in this podcast feed, the gift exchanges for our patrons are also
now combined.
That means if you are patron of Angel On Top, if you are a patron of Buffering the
Vampire Slayer, that means that now is the time to sign up for that Scooby gift
exchange or also, the Scooby book exchange. Both of the links to sign up for those
gift exchanges are the most recent post on both Angel On Top and Buffering the
Vampire Slayer's Patreon feeds. And also, if you are one of our black or indigenous
listeners, you likely know this already, but you'll get an email with those links to
sign up as well. All of the digital perks available on both Patreon accounts are
accessible for free for our black and indigenous listenership.
The other thing that I wanna tell you about is that we're doing some fundraising for
Georgia and for the runoff elections in Georgia. Stacy Abrams, you probably know.
Stacey Abrams is a massive political force, a massive force in general. And did so
much organizing, along with so many others locally in Georgia, to flip the state
blue. Hell fucking yeah, Georgia! And there are runoff elections happening in
January for two very critical Senate seats. Stacy Abrams is also a massive Buffy the
Vampire Slayer fan. We would be doing this fundraising no matter what, but it is
very special that Stacy is a Buffy fan, has a lot of opinions about Angel and Spike


that have been floating around the internet lately. I'm not gonna go into them here,
because they may or may not contain a few spoilers.
But I will tell you is this. Right now, and through the end of the day on Sunday,
November 22nd, we're running a giveaway. So you can head to
bufferingthevampireslayer.com/forgeorgia, that's F-O-R-G-E-O-R-G-I-A.
Bufferingthevampireslayer.com/forgeorgia, and you'll see that we have many
bundles of the Buffy Boom comics that are signed by Jenny and myself. We're
gonna be adding to that page in the next couple of weeks as well. We've raised,
with your help and with your entries into that giveaway, already over $1800, that
we'll be donating to Fair Fight. That is the place that Stacy Abrams herself has
asked for people to donate. The links are all found on that page,
bufferingthevampireslayer.com/forgeorgia.
One other small thing. You'll notice towards the end of this episode that Mack's
audio changes a bit. We had a couple of little technical difficulties with the audio.
It's not a big deal, but I just didn't want you to be surprised. Luckily, everything
that Mack and LaToya say far transcends any need for perfect audio. Okay! So stay
tuned in the next couple of weeks for more. I'm going to stop talking now, because
the reason you're here, of course, is to hear LaToya Ferguson along with Mack
MacDade talk about this episode. Back to you, LaToya.
LaToya:​ Thanks, Kristin. This week, we're watching Angel, Season 3, Episode 3,
That Old Gang of Mine. And joining me as cohost is Buffering the Vampire Slayer
and Angel On Top consultant, Mack MacDade. That Old Gang of Mine was written by
Angel heavy hitter, Tim Minear, and directed by Fred Keller. It aired on The WB on
October 8, 2001. This is the one where Gunn discovers that his old vampire-hunting
crew has decided that gang violence is actually good. This is also the one where
Angel the series gives up on pretending it cares about Gunn's old vampire-hunting
crew altogether, which is probably for the best, considering the makeup of who was
writing the show.
[Angel On Top theme plays]
LaToya:​ Hello, Mack!
Mack:​ Hello, hello, hello!
LaToya:​ Mack, since this is your—I guess your first official time on Angel On Top,
I've gotta know. What is your Angel origin story?


Mack:​ My Angel origin story was being a little girl who thought that, you know,
Angel was very dreamy. And so when he got a spinoff, [laughs] followed him right
into perdition.
LaToya:​ I mean, you're not wrong. He is dreamy and we will be discussing that in
this episode. [both laugh]
Mack:​ Yeah, and then the other thing is, I live in Los Angeles. So it was actually
kind of fun to be like, that is ​not​ what that very real place in LA actually looks like.
That was the other fun part of the show, which is why I stuck around a lot. [laughs]
LaToya:​ Well no, as we all know, south LA is just all warehouses for street urchins
to live in, basically. [Mack laughs] Are you excited to talk about this episode, Mack?
Mack:​ I am so excited because it's just—it is—I actually told Kristin. I was like, I
rewatched it… and was like, maybe it's not as bad as I remember it being, right?
'Cause sometimes, you know, you'll rewatch something and like, you start to see
the bad things. And so like, you get intense about it? I was like, maybe it's not as
bad as I remember. And then I rewatched it and was like, oh no. Nah. It's exactly
as bad as I remember it. Cool. Cool, cool, cool, cool. [laughs]
LaToya:​ I mean, I think there are interesting concepts in the episode. And
all—most of my notes—a lot of my notes are just like, "and this could be
interesting, if they did this a different way." [laughs] Tim Minear, in 2007, I saw an
interview he did and he talked about this episode. And I wanna read that real quick,
this quote, which is—the interviewer asked, "Prior to its airing, I read that you were
pleased with the script for That Old Gang of Mine, yet the pleasure went away once
it was produced. What changed?"
To which, Minear said, "No. I always pretty much loathed that script. But I felt,
weak as the script was, that had it been shot differently, that it would have made a
huge difference. As it happened, it was my weakest script coupled with the most
unfocused direction. Just painful all the way around." Well, I like that he says it's
his weakest script, but I also think that this quote basically puts all of the onus on
the director. And I think that the problems with this episode are very much a
writing situation. [laughs]
Mack:​ Yeah, like, you can only direct things so much.
LaToya:​ It is—it's interesting, 'cause you know, the way writers' rooms work,
obviously, there are multiple writers. And they all, you know, take turns writing the
scripts. But ultimately, like, the buck stops at the showrunner, because they are,


you know, imitating the showrunner's voice. And the showrunner will do the final
revisions. And so you hear a lot about how, you know, when there's like a great
joke or something, and the writer's like, oh, that was actually a Joss thing. You
don't really hear—and then—well, this is a bad episode because of Joss. Even
though arguably, the same thing could be said. He was still doing the final passes
on bad episodes of television, you know?
Mack:​ Well, it's like, Glee—so. Something that, like, if you were a hardcore Gleek,
you know when Ryan was heavily involved in an episode—
LaToya:​ Yes.
Mack:​ Based on what it sounds like.
LaToya:​ 'Cause the Glee writers' room is an insane thing, different from a lot of
other writers' rooms. [laughs]
Mack:​ Yeah, so like, I don't understand when people think we also don't have the
same sense with Joss Whedon projects. Like, we know when it was Joss.
LaToya:​ So I think there is an interesting story to be told about, you know,
humans deciding that they're going to be proactive against monsters. And
considering the shades of gray Angel especially the show lives in with monsters and
the good or the bad or just the in between. There's a lot you can kind of get from
that. And especially the idea of, like, hunting monsters for sport, as opposed to,
you know, hunting monsters for science, which is what we had with the Initiative in
Season 4 of the B-word show.
This is not a story that should be told in one episode and then we say goodbye. This
is something that should have been a gradual thing. We've noted in the past
episode that this was originally supposed to be Episode 2 of Season 3. There was a
switch. So this is an episode that's just like, let's finally get this story—the
Gunn/crew story—out and just done with, basically. Instead of giving it the time
and care it deserved and needed.
Mack:​ Yeah, and it also feels like they were looking at—and again, it's a Joss show
so you know it was arced out for quite a few seasons. So I feel like it's such an
afterthought. Like, knowing how Joss Whedon operates, this is clearly an
afterthought, if you're planning out how you want something to go. But like, also, if
it's an afterthought, make it a good afterthought. [LaToya laughs] Like, you
absolutely should have had this conversation. But like, once you realize you need to


have it, and like, you're gonna half-ass it? Use half of like, Nicki Minaj's ass, not
like, half of Heidi Klum's ass. Like, if you're gonna do it. Like. [both laugh]
LaToya:​ Again, there were only white writers on this show. [laughter] We should
note that again. And it's weird—one thing I was thinking, like, early in my prep for
this episode, something I never really thought about but it kind of works, is that it's
like a bullshit version of like, a Malcolm vs. Martin thing.
Mack:​ Mmhmm!
LaToya:​ Where Gunn is the white people's version of Martin Luther King. And
obviously Gio and the crew are Malcolm X, which makes them the bad guys. Yeah,
it's just like the version of MLK that's only "I have a dream" and nothing else.
Mack:​ [laughing] So the white version of Martin Luther King.
LaToya:​ Exactly. So of course, that's a good one and in the end, that wins. And
south LA will just—will never be saved by Angel and company again, apparently.
[laughs]
Mack:​ And here's the thing. It's not even an appropriate lift of Martin vs. Malcolm.
It's, again, showing that Joss Whedon is a comic book nerd, because this is a direct
lift of some of the worst 90s X-Men storylines.
LaToya:​ Mmhmm.
Mack:​ Like, that's really what it is. Had it been a direct lift of that conversation, of
like—you know, not even Martin and Malcolm. But like, a Jesus and a John the
Baptist, right. There's always those two. That's what makes a story good, that's
what makes progress happen, right? They didn't even do that. Like, they didn't give
it the energy of having, like, a clash of Titans idea in practice. It is very much, like,
these are a caricature of Magneto's evil, these are a caricature of the righteous
X-Men, you know, led by an all-knowing, slightly-too-old white dude.
LaToya:​ Yes. You have the good guys, who are Team Angel, and of course, the bad
guys, who are not Team Angel. And it's just like—and you know especially that it's
not even trying to do shades of gray with humans, surprisingly, when they get guns
in there. 'Cause that's, of course, the universal B-verse sign for "bad." If you got
some guns, you're bad.


Mack:​ Which is a question I've had through every run of both of these shows, was
like, did—what? Don't we have, like, a wooden bullet gun? Like, don't we
have—like, there's gotta be—
LaToya:​ [laughs] Wooden bullets are actually something very common in The
Vampire Diaries, so. [laughs]
Mack:​ Which is the other show I'm obsessed with.
LaToya:​ Good, good, good. Yes, we're gonna get along famously. [Mack laughs]
The physics of wooden bullets, of course, don't actually make sense. Because—
Mack:​ At all. [laughs]
LaToya:​ They would just burn up as soon as they were shot, yeah. But they're
cool, and that's the thing.
Mack:​ Okay. But I mean, physics—we're talking about physics. We have vampires!
[laughter]
LaToya:​ But no, science matters, okay?
Mack:​ [doubtfully] Mmhmm. [both laugh]
LaToya:​ I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I have to bring it up every time wooden bullets come
up. Because again, they are cool. But they wouldn't—they would just burn if shot
through a gun. That's just the way it is! Before we get, like, right into the beat by
beat of the episode, I do wanna say that—so at the end of Season 2 of Angel, we
were just talking about how, you know, everyone's kind of learning their lessons
while they're in Pylea. Except for Gunn, which like, it seemed like his only lesson is
to learn that Wes is the leader, basically. [laughs]
Mack:​ Yeah.
LaToya:​ Because Gunn basically just chooses to be a subservient soldier, instead of
like, a leader, is what happens. And I understand there is a—like, again. There is a
story to be told about, like, he—like, his self-loathing. Because like, basically he
puts himself in the soldier role because what happened with him as a leader. But
like, even Rondell notes, like, "you know, you actually were a good leader and we
still needed you." And you would think the story would eventually be for Gunn to
step up as a leader. That's, like, what it should be. And that's just not it.


Mack:​ [laughs] Not even a little.
LaToya:​ Not at all. And just one more thing. I believe this episode is what officially
reveals that the whole "no demon violence" in Caritas is actually a spell and not
just, like, something Lorne hopes everyone will do, you know?
Mack:​ Which always made me a little sad. 'Cause I just kind of felt like, we respect
Lorne, this sweet little baby, so much that we are not gonna act a fool, so that we
don't have to be gathered. Great. But no, it's magic. [both laugh]
LaToya:​ I watched this on Netfl—uh, on Hulu and there were no previouslys. And I
note that because—so the opening scene in this episode really works better when
you have the previouslys. Did you see it with previouslys, Mack?
Mack:​ Uh, no 'cause I watched it on Hulu as well.
LaToya:​ Yeah, so in the previouslys, part of that is obviously the Merl stuff, you
know. But the other part of that is Darla and Angel and what—where Angel left
Darla in Season 2 and how he treated her, you know, after they had sex. So, this
opening scene, of course, is supposed to be a fake-out that he's apologizing to
Darla, who we know is on her way, pregnant, to go see Daddy, basically.
Mack:​ Yeah, I actually—when it first started, like, I haven't seen this episode in a
very long time. And—but I remembered that that was the previous storyline. I was
like, I don't remember him losing his goddamn mind. What? [laughs] Then it pulls
out as like, got you!
LaToya:​ Yeah. 'Cause the bit only kinda works—'cause the bit only works if you
know what the context is for why—why the shot's like a closeup like that. And just
otherwise, like, who is he—who are we supposed to think he's apologizing to? You
know?
Mack:​ I mean, he should be apologizing to Cordy for many, many reasons. But.
[both laugh] I'm a Cordy stan account, so. [laughs]
LaToya:​ Are we not all Cordy stan accounts?
[CORDELIA jingle plays]
Cordelia… (ah-ahh)
I love you, Cordelia (ah-ahh)
You're perfect, Cordelia (ah-ahh)


LaToya:​ Angel is actually apologizing to Merl, poorly, for everything he did to him
during his beige Angel/Angle arc. He's literally reading his apology off notecards.
[Mack laughs] It's a bad apology. Cordy has to end up talking to Merl, which is how
you basically learn that Cordy is the one who wrote the notecards. [laughs] Then
we get something I love, which is petty Angel. [laughs]
Mack:​ It's really good that he was given his own show. He is so good at that. At
like, just like, having different shades of Angel.
LaToya:​ Mmhmm.
Mack:​ And this is one of those moments where it shines through really well.
[laughs]
LaToya:​ He gets to give you all the versions of Angel you love. Petty Angel,
Shallow Angel, Old Man Angel. [laughs] Old Man Angel who is, of course, Cheap
Angel.
Mack:​ Right? The, like, Inappropriate Sexual Tension with Cordy Angel. [laughs]
LaToya:​ So you—oh, you say inappropriate. So this will be at odds with our guest,
Connor Goldsmith, who was on for That Vision Thing.
Mack:​ I just think it's inappropriate because he's so, like, emotionally constipated.
[both laugh]
LaToya:​ But what man isn't? But yes. When Angel goads Merl into hitting him,
that's how we learn that the whole "no demon violence" thing is not just a
suggestion or sign. It's a thing that's—prevents demons from even trying it. And
Angel knew that, and he was being a little stinker. And that of course comes into
play for later in the episode.
Merl no longer wants to see these people ever again, but he does need a ride home,
so Gunn gives him a silent ride. And Gunn, by the way, who was having a ball
watching Angel mess with Merl, he thought it was hilarious. He took no part in, like,
the mediation. He was laughing so much.
Mack:​ That is the black person in that situation, behaving appropriately. I will
watch these white people act a damn fool and I'ma get my kicks.
LaToya:​ Yeah.


Mack:​ Like, that's what we all woulda been doing. [laughs]
LaToya:​ So far, so good. Merl goes home and he is murdered in his home. And it's
of course filmed in a way to make you think it's another very devious monster. RIP
Merl. [singing] "I will remember you…" [Mack laughs, LaToya sings tune]
Both: [singing] "Will you remember me?" [Mack laughs]
LaToya:​ [sings tune] So that's appropriate, right?
Mack:​ Yeah. It's vintage CW.
LaToya:​ Vintage The WB, Mack. Show some respect. [laughs]
Mack:​ Okay, The WB. Excuse me, excuse me.
LaToya:​ We respect The WB in this house. [laughs] Flashback. Gunn and his sister
Alonna, after she's been turned into a vampire. Gunn is not over that trauma.
[laughs] In case anyone was wondering. Because no one in—
Mack:​ Hm, surprise, surprise.
LaToya:​ Because he has not dealt with it. And it's not like anyone in the show goes
to therapy. Which is just the way we like 'em! You don't have well-adjusted vampire
hunters. They—like, they wouldn't be like, monster hunters anymore if they were
well-adjusted. [laughs]
Mack:​ Uh, no, I would actually like to say that both Dawn and Giles are actually
very w
​ ell-adjusted. They could actually—you could put them in a different show and
they'd be fine.
LaToya:​ Well, yes, and Dawn's not allowed to do anything with the Scoobies,
because she's too well-adjusted! [both laugh] And Giles just left. Because he's so
well-adjusted. See? Being well-adjusted, ya get outta here! In the premiere, I was
like, they should get therapy, but now I'm against therapy. You try to get therapy
on this show? You're outta the gang! [both laugh]
Mack:​ I just feel so bad. [both laugh] Like! For baby Gunn.
LaToya:​ I just feel so bad—yeah, for—his mental health, yeah. And he's not talking
to anyone. Not even Wesley, who was like, he got—


Mack:​ And like, the people he works with are like—yeah, like Wesley and Angel.
These are the other two men who, like—[laughs]
LaToya:​ Yeah. He got—'cause yeah, Wesley needs therapy too, but yeah.
He—Wesley and him are close, but again, post-Pylea, after seeing leadership
Wesley, that it's not—the closeness is not there anymore. And it only—like, the drift
even continues at the end of this episode.
Mack:​ Yeah. They did both of those dudes dirty. That could have been some, like,
iconic duo. And they just…
LaToya:​ It's lonely at the top, Mack. [laughing] That's what Wes is learning. It's
also lonely at the bottom, which is what Gunn's learning. [both laugh]
Mack:​ It's just lonely. Like…
LaToya:​ Yeah, it's just lonely. That's the point of the show. So Gunn wakes up
from his terrible nightmare, which is probably something—a nightmare he has all
the time. And we see Gunn's apartment, wherever that is.
Mack:​ Can I also have like, a black girl pet peeve? That we spell her name with an
"O."
LaToya:​ Wait, what?
Mack:​ So they spell Alonna's name with an "O."
LaToya:​ They do?
Mack:​ And it bothers me.
LaToya:​ Oh, they do—
Mack:​ Yeah, it's spelled with an "O."
LaToya:​ I don't like that at all.
Mack:​ I was like, why couldn't it just be Alanna? Like, from the frickin' Little
Mermaid. Like, you expressly had to make everybody's name some sort of slight
twist on the way which it would traditionally, quotation marks, be spelled! Also, his
name is Gunn. Like, we—we are playing into a lot of interesting stereotypes very
subtly. Like! [laughs]


LaToya:​ I mean, his name is Charles and Gunn just happens to be his last name.
So it's Alonna with an "O" Gunn, as well. [laughs] She is also Gunn.
Mack:​ Yeah, it's just like, mmkay.
LaToya:​ Gunn's apartment, wherever it is—'cause he's not living in the hotel. And
he's clearly not living in the same neighborhood as his old crew. Where does Gunn
live, you guys? That's what I wanna know.
Mack:​ I think it's like, east LA. Like, it feels like before they started gentrifying
[inaudible].
LaToya:​ I'm sure that's where it is, but I wanna see more. All I see is that he does
not have a fitted sheet. He just has a sheet over the mattress, but at least, like, he
has a headboard and everything. [laughs]
Mack:​ He's ​almost​ an adult man.
LaToya:​ He does have a beeper. He gets beeped, basically it's time to come for a
case. I'm confused by the fact that—so he finally shows up at Merl's. And they say
he's two hours late. So was he sleeping—like, just oversleeping, basically, and
didn't hear it until now and that's why? Or did he get the beep, and then still didn't
come till two hours later, which I don't understand.
Mack:​ I mean, also I think it might just be a way for Wesley to like, give him a
hard time.
LaToya:​ Mmhmm.
Mack:​ Like, I really think that it was just—there wasn't that much thought put into
it and they just wanted Wesley to give him a hard time about something.
LaToya:​ It is very weird, esp—the first episode has Angel coming back from Sri
Lanka and he has gifts for them. And Gunn seems to be on a—like, in a good place
with Angel. But like, Gunn and Angel—there's static immediately.
[Clip from episode plays]
Gunn:​ Look. I didn't have a beef with Merl, alright? I'm even sorry he got
dead, but come on! Is this really the kind of thing we should be spending our
time on? I mean, he was what he was, right?


Angel:​ What's that supposed to mean?
Gunn:​ Nothing. Means what it means, somebody killed a demon. Hello! We
do that every day.
Wesley:​ ​Merl ​was harmless.
Gunn:​ Okay.
Angel:​ Sure you're not just bent because maybe we interrupted something
you'd rather be doing?
Gunn:​ No.
Angel:​ Okay. Usually doesn't take you two hours to answer a page is all.
Gunn:​ Excuse me, but did somebody put you back in charge? 'Cause if they
did, they forgot to tell me about it.
LaToya:​ Where the hell did that come from? [laughs] We start antagonistic for
reasons I don't understand. So, they're at Merl's, investigating, 'cause his slime is
everywhere.
Mack:​ That lightbulb makes me wanna barf, every time I see it. [LaToya laughs] It,
like, makes me gag. Ugh! It's so gross.
LaToya:​ Yeah, he is a slimy one. Gunn of course brings up the fact that Angel's not
in charge anymore. And this episode also reiterates that Wes is very much in
charge.
Mack:​ Which is ​not a
​ n improvement, but okay.
LaToya:​ [laughs] Wes steps in and just sends Gunn back home. And Angel realizes
he has to now get to know Merl in order to solve his murder, which is actually not
the case. He wants to get in his Detective Angel hat, but it's not time yet. We will
have a Detective Angel moment, but now is not the time.
Mack:​ I think—so speaking to the moment where, like, Wes sends Gunn home—
LaToya:​ Is this the White Supremacy jingle?


Mack:​ Yes! [laughs]
[WHITE SUPREMACY jingle plays]
You know what that sounds like to me? (What?)
White supremacy! (Oh no)
Woven in not too subtly (Ugh)
White supremacy! (Uh-uh)
Open your eyes and that's where you'll find it
Crush that (squash that)
White supremacy!
LaToya:​ Maybe we should just have it playing—playing underneath us for this
entire episode. [laughs]
Mack:​ [sighs] Oh, god.
LaToya:​ You know what would make a lot of sense? If they, like, explicitly stated
that this was like, the anniversary of Gunn's sister's death. That would put a lot of
things into context, for Gunn especially.
Mack:​ That's too much, like, character development.
LaToya:​ Yeah. I'm apparently just like, workshopping how to make this episode
better as we go. But yeah, he showed up at his old crew's spot and he's clearly
hesitant to do so. He's immediately attacked by a jacked street youth. [laughs] But
then Gunn—Gio shows up—
Mack:​ "Street youth." [laughs]
LaToya:​ [laughs] Yeah. You can tell he's bad because he has a little swag in his
step. He's got a personality, so he's evil. Rondell says something that is not
intended to be passive aggressive, but it is.
[Clip from episode plays]
Rondell:​ Vamps know better than to ​even​ cross Venice Boulevard these
days. Crew's as tight as it's ever been. Even back in your day.
Mack:​ And people who don't know how to write people of color and their
language—
LaToya:​ Yeah.


Mack:​ Just say things like that. [laughs]
LaToya:​ Yeah. So… apparently vamps don't dare cross Venice Boulevard these
days. Because of [Mack laughs] how the crew has been doing. Gunn's crew clearly
started—or when they were introduced in War Zone. Like, they were like a Lost
Boys type of situation. So is the implication that Gunn basically grew up? Is that
what the show is trying to say? He grew up and no longer wanted to help his
neighborhood, that's good?
Mack:​ Yeah, I mean, that's literally the basis of this episode. Like, that's the root of
the utter racism that is part of this episode. It's like, oh, I found the people who do
this the better, the right, the more sanctified, holy way. Quite literally. And you
know, I'm moving on up and I've left y'all behind. And you know, I'm coming to tell
you how you need to act.
LaToya:​ Mmhmm.
Mack:​ And, you know. He's the uppity negro at this point, right? Like, he's Sadiddy.
You know?
LaToya:​ Yeah. And—
Mack:​ Working out of the—and it's a horrible thing. It's this—it's a horrible,
horrible, horrible message. Okay, we don't necessarily ever go back to, you know,
Sunnydale, right? But, like, we don't… pretend they're not there. We don't not come
help them, we don't—like, even if we're operating differently as Angel
Investigations. But like, somehow, this group of humans… who do better than the
Scoobies do, of doing their job, frankly—who have been holding it down and
protecting a neighborhood ​no one​ is willing to protect.
LaToya:​ They're all more useful than Xander. Like, the jacked little boy who
attacked Gunn. [laughs] He's great.
Mack:​ Yeah! And it's like, why—the only difference between the Scoobies and these
kids is they're not white.
LaToya:​ Mmhmm.
Mack:​ Their system is not extremely hierarchical.
LaToya:​ Mmhmm.


Mack:​ Everyone is skilled and valued for their skill. Like…
LaToya:​ I mean, yeah—
Mack:​ It's horribly racist. It's just the implication that the ways that this works
aren't ​appropriate a
​ nd it doesn't follow the rules. Like, hashtag white supremacy
culture, like, you know…
LaToya:​ And the one thing Gunn's old crew, like, had against them—before this
obviously—is just that they didn't have anyone, like, on the books doing research.
'Cause like, they didn't need to, 'cause they had—they were going against vampires
who were like, picking people off in their, you know, their community. Which
is—that's what—now, now the issue—like, the actual issue is that they're growing.
You know, they're seeking out demons but without knowing, you know, that some
are like, very peaceful. Some literally keep the balance, as Wes says about one of
them. And it's just like, they're kinda choosing to be—stand with ignorance. And
now it's like, the ignorant black people, they're doing it all wrong. Ugh!
And I just wanna—to note that Gio is played by Khalil Kain, who at this time, I
would have known from like an episode of Sister, Sister. He plays like a 21-year-old
that Lisa goes on a date with. [both laugh] And like—and some episodes of Living
Single and like, he went on to be on Girlfriends and like, I think—I actually—I like
his performance. He has a swag I really like, so of course, the show uses that
against me because he is so evil. But like, I like his personality. [laughs]
Mack:​ There are some really interesting things that are played with when it comes
to coolness, i.e. blackness—
LaToya:​ Mmhmm.
Mack:​ In fantasy. They're often evil as hell. [laughs]
LaToya:​ Yeah. Because they're cocky—
Mack:​ And I hate it.
LaToya:​ And they're too big for their britches.
Mack:​ Why are all the cool ones also always evil? Like… [laughs]


LaToya:​ He's like, really cool. And we'll get into this later, but I think—again, this is
why I'm like, this could be an interesting arc. Because there is a story to be told,
again, where Gio is like, the inverse of Gunn in that, like, he had a similar situation.
He sought out Charles Gunn, basically 'cause he heard about him. And then he saw
what Gunn did and basically, he thinks he sold out, so he's like, "I'm gonna do
things the other way." That's a good story! And that'd be really interesting, 'cause I
think Khalil Kain is very good in this. But no.
Mack:​ It just bugs me that, like, they take so many good—good moments. There's
so many good morsels in here. And they just never quite give us a meal.
LaToya:​ Mmhmm.
Mack:​ That's what it is.
LaToya:​ Yes.
Mack:​ It's like, there's tiny beats everywhere that are just so good!
LaToya:​ Yeah.
Mack:​ And then they just go, and we're gonna move along and push this very
awkward narrative. Like, no. You stay here. You dig in your claws here for a bit.
Like… sit down, Estelle. Have some sweet tea, swing on the porch. Like… [both
laugh]
LaToya:​ But you know what? You know what's a meal? What is good—is something
I never noticed until now—is the fact that Angel is wearing leather pants with that
dark blue long-sleeve shirt. And I didn't notice that before, and I noticed it—
Mack:​ Mmhmm!
LaToya:​ And rewound it numerous times, rewatching this episode this morning.
[Mack laughs] I'm like, wait, is he wearing leather pants? And then I'm like, he's
wearing leather pants. I need to keep going back to this for scientific purposes,
because I am a podcast host. So this is important to me. And it's good.
[BI FOR BOREANAZ jingle plays]
He’s got a broody stare and hot spiky hair
If you’re straight or gay,
Your tingly feelings don’t care
You’re just being honest ‘bout this


Sexy demonic and you're…
Bi for Boreanaz
Bi for Boreanaz
Bi for Boreanaz
Mack:​ Like, Angel in leather is just always… there's no bad. There's no bad.
LaToya:​ He's just—this is his "hanging around" leather pants, is what's happening
here.
Mack:​ I mean, this was the Coyote Ugly years, like… a lot of us had pleather pants
and it was a look.
LaToya:​ It's very much a look. Angel and his look—is having a conversation with
Cordy. And they're talking about Fred. Fred is now, like, going into the courtyard
and talking to shrubs. But you know, she's not leaving the hotel. And Angel, he's
like—he wants her, like, to experience the world without fear. Which is why he
wants Cordelia to talk to her. If anyone knows how to live in the world, it's Cordelia
Chase, you know?
Mack:​ Mmhmm.
LaToya:​ Cut to a big slimy demon, drinking a Big Gulp, in the sewers. He's just
drinking a Big Gulp, minding his business. And he is attacked by the crew, led by
Gio. One of them says, "smoke him, Gio!"
Mack:​ [groans] What is he, sausage? Jesus.
LaToya:​ [laughs] Should we call Gio "Lil Smokey?"
Mack:​ [laughs] Yes.
LaToya:​ Back at the bookie's apartment, you can see the little bit from the
crossbow that Gio was using, which was of course a Gunn creation. Gunn loves
making—like, metalworking, basically. [laughs]
Mack:​ He's, like, extremely skilled in so many ways, and somehow, again, he's
boiled down to this episode. [laughs]
LaToya:​ Yeah, yeah! Why don't we have more of Gunn creating weapons for the
crew? For the team, like, Angel? The problem is that whoever the attacker is, isn't


making distinctions between whether they're evil or not. And then Angel comes in
with the news of the slimy Big Gulp demon.
Mack:​ Who's in Century City. If you're not from LA, Century City is like… directly
next door to Beverly Hills. It's kind of like the business-y center, a lot of law offices
of people who live in Beverly Hills. It just makes no sense that there's, like, a
random sewer that looks like this with a demon chilling in it. It just does not.
[laughs]
LaToya:​ It also means that these black street toughs are coming into the rich
neighborhoods now and bringing their black violence, is what's happening here.
Mack:​ Mmhmm.
LaToya:​ I'm actually—I'm really surprised that Gio's not from Chicago. I'm
surprised they didn't just go with that.
Mack:​ [laughs] That woulda hit… too many stereotypes on the nose. Like, directly
on the nose. That would have broken a nose.
LaToya:​ [laughing] Exactly. That would have been just a bloody nose. So Gunn
also sees the evidence of his crossbow point. So he sneaks that out and he's like,
"I'm gonna go to the streets to see if there's anything I can find." [Mack laughs]
Again, Angel knows something's up. But like, I don't understand why, like… Angel
and Gunn are just being so weird in this episode to each other in the first place.
[laughs]
And I think maybe this is what Tim Minear means when he says it's the direction.
Because Angel's weirdness also kinda makes sense if it's like—we're supposed to be
seeing it from Gunn's perspective, how he sees Angel. Like, it's not even what
Angel is, but like, how he perceives Angel in this instance and just usually? Maybe,
like, it's: Gunn sees Angel as snippy towards him, even if he's not. And maybe
that's what—maybe that's what Tim Minear was trying to show.
Mack:​ Okay, yeah, like if you follow it—if you follow Gunn, that would make sense,
yeah.
LaToya:​ Yeah. And in that case, then it definitely is a direction problem.
Mack:​ Yeah, so like, if it starts from Gunn's point of view in Caritas—Caritas,
whatever. [LaToya laughs] I only English mildly well. And then, you know, it goes
straight to his nightmare, to him—like, if we just follow him. And even if we need to


have the Cordy/Angel thing, he's like, passing through that area and it literally is
just a POV of Gunn—
LaToya:​ Yes. Then that explains—yeah.
Mack:​ I could maybe see this being less bad.
LaToya:​ Yes. And that also—that really explains what's—the weirdness between
him and Angel in this episode. We're cracking the code on this episode. I'm actually
glad that we're finally to like, the real bottom of—other than, you know, just: well,
white people were behind all of this. [Mack sighs] And now I think we know what
Tim Minear's intent was and what didn't come out in the production of it, and that's
why he was blaming the direction.
Mack:​ Yeah. Intent versus impact, kids, and the impact is quite interesting. [both
laugh]
[AD BREAK]
LaToya:​ As I was saying, the Gio story works better if like, he—you know, he set
out to find Gunn and then found out what Gunn had made of himself and decided to
go to the opposite way. Because, like, Gio is really smart, and he's really smart
about finding, like, where demons are. He was tracking Gunn, apparently, for
months. Like, he is on top of all of these things. And that again, makes—it would
make more sense if this, like, is a multi-episode arc. He might be violent, but he's
this brilliant hunting mind, and that's what makes him so scary. You know?
Mack:​ That's what it is, is they rushed making him the villain, right? So they just
dumped all the villain on your head. But if you had this character that, like, maybe
you just see in the background of something. 'Cause, you know, we were weird
close watchers by this point. If you were watching Angel, you probably started with
Buffy. You learned to watch real close. So if you have this character that was just
showing up places. Maybe it's helpful, maybe it's useful sometimes. Maybe it gets
to the point where like, they need—Angel Investigations needed information but the
demon's already dead—like. If you can build him up to being this highly capable,
highly terrifying villain that's more than one dimension, I think this would have
been so much better.
LaToya:​ It's like, what I'm seeing is like—a street, better version of the Initiative,
essentially, is what I see with Gio. And I actually think that's a really interesting
idea.


Mack:​ Yeah. And the black guy doesn't get like a weird monstrous death. [LaToya
laughs] Unnecessarily monstrous death.
LaToya:​ Yeah. [Mack laughs] Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Mack:​ And like, I think that's also—but again, it's part of the power play that exists
in the Buffyverse—is any power that is not bestowed by a specific kind of magic or
associations with a specific kind of magic is ultimately punished and seen as wrong.
LaToya:​ Yeah. And now, we've got guns involved. Because they can't just be, you
know, this crew, protecting their home. They've gotta be a straight-up gang.
Because they're black and live in south LA, baby!
Mack:​ Clearly. Like, it's so upsetting.
LaToya:​ Yeah. It really is. Another note I had—it was like, another thing that
make—would work for Gio, for just doing this in one episode, is that if he ends up
being, like, a demonic manifestation of Gunn's subconscious and guilt. Like, the
way he steps to—up to Gunn. And he's like, you know, "he still thinks you're a hero.
We know that's wrong, right, Charles?" Like, it seems like this is something that
Gunn is just manifesting. That could be another thing, if you just wanna make Gio
demonic. There are so many ways to do this.
Mack:​ It's not even so many ways. It's so many ​better w
​ ays of doing this.
LaToya:​ Again, the gun thing is bad. Rolling up to demons' homes and just
like—with assault weapons [laughs] is bad, just in general. But like, let's not
pretend that like, Buffy, for the first two seasons, was calling patrolling "hunting."
Like, she was actively hunting for these vampires. At the same time, we—since
Season 2, we also have things like Willy's place. You know, Willy the Snitch's place,
where like, demons could just go. So even like teenage Buffy was realizing, you
know, not all evil things are evil things. Back at the hotel, Cordelia takes the time
now to go talk to Fred. Fred makes a point, which is that "no one will notice me
with you around." Because, you know, Fred is not blind. I'm just saying. [laughs]
Mack:​ Sweet mousy little Fred. [both laugh]
LaToya:​ Gunn shows up. He's got the evidence. I think he—he wants to do, like, a
stealth, putting the evidence back thing. He doesn't get a chance because Angel is
lurking. Or so it would seem. Detective Angel, yes, Detective Angel is back. Play the
jingle!


[DETECTIVE ANGEL jingle plays]
Detective Angel!
LaToya:​ Detective Angel realizes the chaos and randomness has a purpose. And
that's to have fun. Which, you know what, doesn't seem like a very demonic thing
to do, now does it?
Mack:​ Yeah, that's a very human [inaudible]
LaToya:​ And then Gunn changes the subject, where he's like, I came to see the
boss. And he's clearly, like, trying to do it as like, a digging way. But again,
because we're not seeing this from Gunn's perspective, it falls flat.
Mack:​ I don't think they quite understood, as writers, like, two super damaged,
super "I failed as leaders," like, alpha men? How to both write those as like,
individual characters but especially, like, write them together.
LaToya:​ And allowing them both to be leaders instead of like, choosing one has to
be subservient and it's not gonna be Angel, obviously.
Mack:​ It's like, if the one thing that we learned from the B-word show, is that, you
know, things work a lot better when we step away from, like, the weird hierarchy
that's been imposed upon us by… all of the things. And we start, like, leading from
a group standpoint. So like, why are we three seasons into Angel [laughs] and not
having figured that out, when someone else already did the bookwork for us?
[laughs]
LaToya:​ And the thing is—it's weird because obviously, it's Angel Investigations.
Angel is like their top fighter. But like, Angel is acquiescing to Wes. Like, he is
taking orders from Wes. But like, Gunn is still pretend—acting as though Angel is
imposing his will and saying he's in charge. When he's like, very much not actually.
What we need to do is, we need to be able to see that—like, this from his head.
That way we can figure that out. Because, like, otherwise, it's just he is reacting to
something that's not there.
Mack:​ It's like the body switch episode from the B-word show where you follow the
character who's switched. It wouldn't make sense if you just, like, did it like a
regular episode. You needed to follow the character that, like, was the main plot
point.
LaToya:​ Yeah.


Mack:​ That is what needed to happen here.
LaToya:​ Everyone is over at Caritas. Wes and Cordelia are with Fred. Fred is up
there, singing Patsy Cline's "Crazy."
[Clip from episode plays]
Fred:​ [singing] Crazy… I'm crazy for feeling so lonely… [giggles]
LaToya:​ Gunn comes in, of course. He's panicking. But he actually takes a moment
and stops and he sees Fred singing karaoke. And his little smile at her singing
karaoke is really sweet! [laughs]
Mack:​ He's a sweet, sweet man who just has had a lot of trauma. Sweet, sweet
baby Gunn. [laughs]
LaToya:​ And you know what? Lorne is actually—like, he's here for Gunn and he
wants to help him with whatever it is. And then there are gunshots.
Mack:​ Because clearly. Because that's how you announce the black people are in.
[laughs]
LaToya:​ Yeah but you know what? Gunn—again, Gunn immediately protects Lorne.
He, like—he covers him and he immediately takes him to behind the bar. It just
reminds you that these guys are bad. They are shooting up the booze and the
lights, things they don't need to shoot. Rondell's ready to leave, but then Gio's
like…
[Clip from episode plays]
Gio: ​Whoa, don't be in such a rush, man! You're in such a hurry. You're liable
to miss out on some of the more interesting things in life. Yo! Charlie Gunn!
Come on, now. I know you in here. Where you at?
Gunn: ​I'm right here.
[gun cocks]
LaToya:​ Lorne, as we all know, is a delightful demon. Lorne is great. There's not a
bad thing to say about Lorne.
Mack:​ Lovely.


LaToya:​ But like, Lorne clearly looks like—like a stereotypical devil. [laughs]
Mack:​ He has horns.
LaToya:​ He's got horns, baby! I can understand seeing Lorne and being terrified.
But you know what? If you get to know him, you'll know he's not terrifying. He
loves Aretha Franklin.
Mack:​ Like, I love that Lorne both loves them and is also like, why are you people
like this?
LaToya:​ He wants to send people on their paths, he wants them to be happy.
[laughing] But like, every time he helps, bad things happen to him! He gets thrown
across rooms. He gets his entire club shot up. He has to go back to Pylea. He hates
Pylea! He loves these people. Just leave him alone! It really is just some white
nonsense, drag—[laughing] like, dragging him in all the time. When Gunn
apologizes to Lorne, Rondell is like, what the fuck, now you're apologizing to this
thing?
Mack:​ And then I have to say… Wesley. Sweet, sweet Wesley. Hashtag white
people. Like, we weren't doing good by ourselves, but you just made it so much
worse, Wesley. [laughs] And then Rondell, knowing full well that Gunn is defending
these people, that like, Wesley has clearly hunted before and is human, just goes
full next level, just goes ax crazy and is like, "are you human?" Like, what? What
are we doing?
LaToya:​ He should have a—take a moment.
Mack:​ Like, exactly. Just—there is nothing that is processing there. And meanwhile,
while the children are all misbehaving, the sole adult has finally made the right
choice and gone to Angel.
LaToya:​ He is ready to go to a certain suicide, as Cordelia calls it.
Mack:​ So you mean regular old Angel?
LaToya:​ Yeah. He wants the D. [Mack laughs] Which is death, of course. So Angel
gives her the address to the Transuding Furies, who are the women that Lorne hires
monthly to do the sanctuary spell in Caritas. And this is where Lorne
brings—because now that Gio's in—Lorne brings up Miami. And how Gio ran—it's all
very vague. Like, "after what you did, she trusted you. Right up to the end, she


trusted you. Did you know that?" Which is… never actually—like, the full story, we
don't know. This is what gives me the impression again that Gio, like, did have a
similar thing to the Gunn/Alonna with an "O" situation.
Mack:​ Oh, 100%. Like, he either had a girlfriend, mom, sister or someone who died
because he messed up. I'm pretty sure he got overzealous doing exactly what he's
doing now, thinking he's the king of the demon hunters and messed up and
someone else paid the price.
LaToya:​ One demon tries to run. Which I've noted him as "the flesh one." Because
like, he looks like… just flesh. And then you got "oh god" demon—the flesh one and
"oh god" demon, and "oh god" demon's still going, "oh god." During all this
kerfuffle, Gunn's able to get a gun. And he points it at Rondell and company. [Mack
laughs] And so, this is where Gio really gets on his high horse. And he starts going
on about the baby-killing monster.
Mack:​ It just becomes this weird, drawn-out, like, Bellatrix Lestrange devolution of
a character, all in one go. You know, it starts being like, maybe he's really the
monster. He makes all these weird accusations, and it's actually, like, very much
again a ham-fisted stab at race relations. The idea that Gunn is no longer with his
crew that is black and brown. He is now with these white people, so maybe he has
the same questionable morals that—Gio believes—the all-white Angel Investigations
team has. So—and then in, you know, full Heathers fashion, dude snaps and shoots
the baby-killing monster.
LaToya:​ I mean, you could have—you could have shot Gio. I'm just saying. You
have a shot, clearly. [laughs] And then Angel shows up, all cool-like, being like,
"you gonna shoot me too?" 'Cause he's Angel. Angel decides he's gonna make it
simple for Gunn. He turns on his vamp face and says, like, make a damn choice.
'Cause that's what Gunn needs to do, like, just fucking do something.
Mack:​ Okay, but it's dumb because Gunn has clearly made the choice. He's clearly
made the choice, so that's insane. Like—
LaToya:​ Well, no—
Mack:​ He hasn't spoken to these people, he hasn't worked with them. And
even—he wasn't even still like, protecting them so much as trying to figure out
what the fuck was going on.
LaToya:​ Well no, it makes sense, if like, the tension that is supposed to be built
from what we were seeing from Gunn's perspective actually worked.


Mack:​ Yeah.
LaToya:​ It makes sense based on what the intent of the story is. [laughs] Not
based on what we've actually seen.
Mack:​ That's fair.
LaToya:​ Yeah. And this is when we get… the Furies. And a handheld camera
situation. Mmm, Angel.
[Clip from episode plays]
Furies:​ Mmm… Angel.
LaToya:​ Despite what we all think about Angel, at some point, Angel fucked.
Mack:​ [laughing] Ew. [both laugh]
LaToya:​ You're welcome! And with that… I think it's time… for Fuck Watch.
[FUCK WATCH jingle plays]
Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing
Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing
Fuck Watch!
LaToya:​ My Fuck Watch, I think, makes sense. I think you can all tell from the
moment I brought it up. It's not Angel. It's Angel's dark blue long-sleeve shirt,
leather pants combination. Like, kinda like, anthropomorphized through a
Phantom/Jenna situation? Like, that's my pick. I couldn't stop thinking about it from
the moment I saw it and rewound and then saw it and rewound again. And then
saw it and rewound again. [laughs]
Mack:​ I mean, I would actually probably go with, like, the image that we just had
of like, the three witches floating in front of Charisma. Just because I have, like, a
thing for the witches in the Buffyverse. [both laugh]
LaToya:​ Mmm. Mack. Is that what you wanna hear?
Mack:​ [laughs] Maybe.
LaToya:​ I knew it!


[FUCK WATCH jingle plays]
Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing
Flirting, understanding consent, and kissing
Fuck Watch!
LaToya:​ Back at Caritas. Gunn's giving a speech. He's saying that Angel could
never be his friend because he's a vampire. But unlike Rondell, Angel's still got the
mission. Rondell's not happy about that, and this is where Gio's like, "a
monster-lover ain't no better than a monster." He's gonna kill everyone, even the
humans, unless one of the humans wants to step up and kill Angel. Then they can
go free. And then Fred's the one who volunteers, saying she's sorry, she just
doesn't wanna die—
Mack:​ That's fair.
LaToya:​ Which, you know what?
Mack:​ That's fair.
LaToya:​ You do you, girl. Gio, patronizing this girl, is like, "you gotta shoot in the
heart." And then she turns it to his throat and she uses science talk, because
science is also important, how he'll bleed to death and won't be able to scream.
Which is, you know what? It's nice. I like that. The magical veil lifts and Angel can
fight. And this is where we learn that Mr. "Oh god, oh god"—so he's clearly an—I
would say, possibly a non-violent demon. But he can be a dangerous demon. So
he's able to do a little… [laughs] do a little chomp. And he eats Gio.
Mack:​ Honestly, I think we need to think about all of our choices that got us here
when a insect demon is the one that deescalates the situation.
LaToya:​ Yeah, it—it is time to think about the lessons of this episode. And you
know, one lesson that Angel could have learned from this entire episode, is if he
watched a certain episode of television from a certain WB series.
[DUBBA-DUBBA-WB jingle plays]
Angel is a vampire
Does he even like TV?
"I think he'll ​like ​The WB."
They got that hot teen drama
To ease the pain and trauma
And here's the episode that he


Needs to see (aw yeah!)
LaToya:​ I was thinking, what episode of television from The WB should Angel
watch? Should it be from one of the many black sitcoms that propped up The WB
when it first started, only to be replaced by all these white teenagers and pastors.
The way Fox did—started as a black network, transitioned to the white people, The
WB started as a black network, transitioned to the white people. UPN started as a
black network, tried to transition to the white people. It failed and then we got The
CW, out of the ashes of The WB and UPN.
But instead, I chose… the white people. [Mack laughs] Episode 16 of Season 3 of
Dawson's Creek, To Green, with Love. This is the episode of Dawson's Creek which
deals with the open hate and racism that you can—can exist in a small New England
town. Finally, more than just discussing Joey's sister's black boyfriend. And the fact
that, you know, try as these white children may to make everything right, they just
can't solve that inherent hate and racism. So they never try again after this episode
of television.
And you know what? Angel could watch this, could really absorb—could see Joey
Potter trying to save the day and failing. He could really learn something about how
to treat black people. Even if it ends with them leaving town because the rest of
Capeside, Massachusetts just couldn't stand that this black principal, who was the
father of Bianca Lawson's Nikki Green, was punishing a privileged white man.
Mack:​ [laughs] That's one of many episodes of Dawson's Creek that Angel could
actually probably learn something from. But I wholeheartedly agree with your
analysis.
LaToya:​ Gunn's old crew is leaving. We don't hear the conversation, because why
would we hear anything Gunn has to say to Rondell? But you can tell, basically,
they just decided that Rondell and the crew will stick to their side of town. And
Gunn will stick to his now.
Mack:​ That's hashtag segregation, quite literally.
LaToya:​ Literal segregation is how this story ends. [laughs] And then Wes
threatens to fire Gunn if he ever withholds information again. And he says that no
one on the team could ever put others in danger. Write that down in your Shanshu
prophecy. Wes says basically zero tolerance, so if ​anyone ​on the team withholds
any ​information, ever, they should be removed from the team. Do you agree,
Mack?


Mack:​ In theory? Yes. Like many, many people we know, the theory is on fleek.
The practice is nonexistent. [both laugh]
LaToya:​ You're gonna hear it first, guys. Wesley Wyndam-Pryce, on fleek. [both
laugh] I will say, this scene works in the sense that it makes clear that There's No
Place Like Plrtz Glrb leader Wesley is—was not just like a one-off. He's here to stay.
He is—like, he is the leader of Angel Investigations and he's like, running a tight
ship, basically. And he's not the rogue demon hunter he once was.
Gunn wants at least some brownie points, which after what he did in this episode, I
don't know how. Which is that, like, "hey, at least I proved that you can trust me,
since I didn't kill you." And Angel's like, "uhh, no? I'll know I can trust you when
you have to kill me and you do." He knows, like, Cordelia and Wesley won't
hesitate, you know?
Mack:​ I also think Cordy, you know, might hesitate, but…
LaToya:​ Based—like, from where we were first two seasons, she wouldn't have
hesitated. Like, right now, they seem in a very good place and like, very—there is
like a dependency.
Mack:​ Yeah.
LaToya:​ Like, they're a team, in a way. She cares so much about him.
Mack:​ She's grown. She's had her character development.
LaToya:​ And he's grown too, to be like, someone she could want to not kill when
the time comes because she just cares so much about him.
Mack:​ This is also true.
LaToya:​ So that was That Old Gang of Mine. Mack, thank you so much for talking
about this episode. And like, really kind of figuring it out with me, after all these
years of not really having the full context for what makes this episode what it is.
[laughs]
Mack:​ Thanks for having me. Yeah, it was actually really good 'cause I definitely
came into this going, god, this—this is such a racist episode. And it was really nice
to talk with—like, talk it through and be like, there were twists, there were turns.


LaToya:​ Understanding what works, understanding why it doesn't work, and how it
could work, you know. No one wants to just come onto, like, a podcast and like,
shit on something. Unless it's like, it's really, really, really bad. I've definitely shat
on shows before [laughs] that have been really, really bad. But like, I don't want to
shit on this show, you know?
Mack:​ The whole idea is to be—to not be a passive consumer of media, is really all
it—all it's about. Like, enjoy it, but like, understand and be an active participant in
it. And I think that's what these conversations are about.
LaToya:​ So Mack, where can we find you on the internet?
Mack:​ On the internet, you can find me on Instagram @mackmactalksback,
M-A-C-K-M-A-C-talks back. On the Twitters, @mackmactlksback but there's no "A"
in "talks." So it's mack-mac-T-L-K-S-back. I'm also on TikTok. [laughs]
LaToya:​ [laughs] Awesome. I am on Twitter @lafergs. And you—of course, you can
find @angelontopcast on Twitter and Instagram. You can email us at
angelontoppodcast@gmail.com. And if you wanna listen to me talk about horny
vampries instead of brooding vampires, you can listen to me over at The AMPire
Diaries. And thank you for listening, everyone. Our next episode is Carpe Noctum.
[Clip from episode plays]
Furies:​ Mmm… Angel.
[Mack laughs]
LaToya:​ Sounds good. Later.
[Angel On Top theme plays]

