Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 2.13: Surprise

Jenny: ​Oh my gosh, hello.
Kristin:​ Hello!
Jenny:​ Before we get started today, we just need to tell you a couple of
things!
Kristin:​ Yes, the first being, if you are a Patreon supporter at ​any​ level, you
can join us next Monday, April 24th at 6:30 PM Pacific Time, 9:30 PM
Eastern Time to watch, together with us, “Surprise.” The very episode we
are about to engage in discussion on. It’s gonna be real fun. Everyone over
there will get the link. We will all watch together. We can discuss. We can,
you know, cover our mouths in shock and awe –
Jenny:​ Mmm!
Kristin:​ It’ll be great. You can find out all about that over at
patreon.com/bufferingcast.
Jenny:​ Yeah! And also when you’re done listening to this episode of
Buffering the Vampire Slayer, might I recommend that you listen to a recent
episode of Mo Welch’s fabulous podcast, Come Out, Come Out, featuring a
very special guest whose voice you might recognize. It’s Kristin Russo, my
wife!
Kristin:​ Oh, wow. Thank you so much.
Jenny:​ Yeah. You did such a great job.
Kristin:​ I had such a great time.
Jenny:​ And Mo did such a great job.
Kristin:​ Mo is a ​great​ host. And the podcast is all about, you might have
guessed it, coming out.


Jenny:​ Mm-hm.
Kristin:​ So you’ll hear all about my coming out story and process and
journey and it’s a barrel of laughs and a good time all around.
Jenny:​ Hell yeah.
Kristin:​ Yeah so check that out after you listen to this, maybe.
Jenny:​ Please.
Kristin:​ And one more thing before we jump into the episode. We just want
to let you know that at the ​end​ of this episode we have a special interview
that we did with our friend Carolyn Yates, who works at Autostraddle as the
NSFW – not suitable for work – editor, as well as the literary editor. She is a
sexpert on many, many planes of existence. We’ll talk to you more about all
of her experience, but we wanted to let you know that we’re pretty excited
to have collaborated with her on some of our thoughts about “Surprise”.
[Intro music]
Jenny:​ Hello and welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer: a podcast where
we are watching and discussing every episode of ​Buffy the Vampire Slayer​ at
a time. You ​cannot​ stop us. I am Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin:​ [laughs] And I am Kristin Russo, and this week we are talking about
Season 2 Episode 13: “Surprise”. Eeeeee! Stay tuned at the end of this
podcast every week for an original song written by us, recapping the ​Buffy
episode we are discussing.
Jenny:​ “Surprise” was written by my friend and yours, Marti Noxon, and
directed by Michael Lange. It originally aired on January 19th, 1998.
Kristin:​ Wow. Lang is my mother’s maiden name. Maybe I’m related to –
Jenny:​ So there’s an “E” at the end.


Kristin:​ Dangit! [laughs] This is the one where – ahem – “to give her a
surprise on her 17th birthday, Drusilla and Spike bring together the body
parts of a dismembered demon who cannot be killed!” Jenny, how would ​you
summarize this episode?
Jenny:​ This is the episode where Buffy and Angel have sex, duh.
Kristin:​ [laughing] Yeah!
Jenny:​ Also… are Spike and Dru doing that for Buffy’s ​birthday​? Is that
what’s going on?
Kristin:​ I mean, they’re having a party. That’s why – remember I asked
you, “is it Dru’s birthday too?” ‘Cause there’s a lot of focus around it being a
party.
Jenny:​ Yeah but they don’t like really hit it too hard, like, they don’t –
Kristin:​ No.
Jenny:​ Sort of nail that. [laughing] But something gets nailed by the end of
the episode so…
Kristin:​ And there is the first of ​many​ ridiculous sex jokes you will hear
throughout the course of the hour.
Jenny:​ [sings a little diddy] Listen. Everything’s fine.
Kristin:​ I’m excited that we are here. We have thinking about this episode.
You have been thinking about – everyone has been thinking about this
episode since we began, I think. I mean, this is –
Jenny:​ Well, except the people who haven’t seen this show before.
Kristin:​ Except for you. And now, welcome. You are here with us, and next
week you’ll be here with us too. Great talk.
Jenny:​ Hell yeah.


Kristin:​ [laughs] Or hell no? Who knows?
Jenny:​ Or hellmouth. So –
Kristin:​ Yes.
Jenny:​ Well, Buffy sleeps in silk pajamas.
Kristin:​ Buffy sleeps in silk pajamas.
Jenny: ​Or she appears in silk pajamas in her own lucid dream.
Kristin: ​Right. Well, Buffy is – you know, this is a big theme throughout the
episode. Her silk pajamas are white silk…
Jenny: ​Mmhmm.
Kristin: ​Her dress later on in the second dream sequence is a white silk
dress.
Jenny: ​Yep.
Kristin: ​She is wearing a white jacket.
Jenny: ​Yes.
Kristin: ​I don’t know if ​you ​know…
Jenny: ​[sarcastically] What does that symbolize?
Kristin: ​What the color white symbolizes.
Jenny: ​I can’t remember.
Kristin: ​But it symbolizes…
Jenny: ​Something that has not yet been tarnished…
Kristin: ​Yes.


Jenny: ​Or marred –
Kristin: ​Or perhaps a chaste, virginal…
Jenny: ​Mm, daiquiri? Pina colada?
Kristin: ​[laughs] Oh my god, your favorite! Jenny’s favorite cocktail to get
in the entire world is a pina colada.
Jenny: ​Well, it’s just –
Kristin: ​[singing] Do you like pina coladas?
Jenny: ​Yeah, it has a lot going for it, the pina colada. First of all, it’s a
slushie so it’s great.
Kristin: ​Uh huh.
Jenny: ​Ideal drink format. Second of all –
Kristin: ​Just for the record, I disagree but continue.
Jenny: ​It’s vaguely faux coconut flavored. And third of all, there’s that
amazing song. Have we talked about this song on the podcast before?
Kristin: ​No, we have not.
Jenny: ​Can we just briefly touch on the fact –
Kristin: ​Yes, where everyone thought we were going to go with the episode
“Surprise” [Jenny and Kristin laugh], a deep discussion into the context of
the “Pina Colada” song.
Jenny: ​I just – I feel like not enough people know what the song is about
and I have taken it on as my sacred duty, one girl in all the world. She alone
has the strength and perseverance to spread the plot of the “Pina Colada”
song far and wide.


Kristin: ​Yes. Go ahead, Jenny, I can give you 30 seconds, go.
Jenny: ​Oh my god, this guy is like, ugh, I’ve been married to this woman
forever and it’s like the fire has gone out or whatever. Maybe just on a lark
I’ll place a personal ad. And the personal ad is like [singing] “Do you like
pina coladas?” and so on, right? And then he gets a response to the pina
colada personal ad. And whoa, he gets ready to go on a date with this
person and then he goes on the date [high-pitched] and it turns out that
he’s on a date with his wife! His wife responded to his personal ad! They
were both getting ready to cheat on each other and found out that they had
more in common and more fire remaining in their love –
Kristin: ​Your 30 seconds is up.
Jenny: ​Than they even ​realized​!
Kristin: ​But you did a great job.
Jenny: ​Thank you.
Kristin: ​And there you have it, and that’s our discussion of the episode
“Surprise”. Good night!
Jenny: ​ [laughs] Bye! Great.
Kristin: ​Let’s talk about Buffy the Vampire Slayer, shall we?
Jenny: ​Okay, listen! It’s really – it’s so great. Buffy gets out of bed, she
walks down her hall –
Kristin: ​Yeah.
Jenny: ​Drusilla whooshes into the hallway behind her –
Kristin: ​Ugh, Drusilla!
Jenny: ​With just a tiny drop of blood sliding out of the side of her mouth.


And then Buffy opens a door in her house and the door of course goes into
the Bronze, where people are partying. And I just want to say, this is not the
only dream sequence that has been created within the Whedonverse.
Kristin: ​Mmhmm.
Jenny: ​And it’s one of the things that I think, really, they just crush.
Kristin: ​Yeah.
Jenny: ​So hard.
Kristin: ​This is really powerful.
Jenny: ​So hard.
Kristin: ​So many – it’s really all in the details. I mean, I guess you could
say that about anything, but these details are so perfectly placed.
Jenny: ​It’s so a dream! It’s like, it’s just – ugh!
Kristin: ​Yeah, no, they do a great job. We see Willow at first. This is pretty
fun because we see Willow and Jenny. She’s speaking in French, you
learned.
Jenny: ​Right.
Kristin: ​And the translation of what she says in Eng – what she’s saying in
French is what?
Jenny: ​Well, she’s saying – well, I can’t say it in French. That’s just a lost
cause, but the English translation is “The hippo stole your trousers”. This
refers back to her conversation with Oz near the end of “What’s My Line,
Part 2” in which, intentionally absurd, he wonders if the hippo animal cracker
is jealous because the monkey is the only animal cracker with pants and
asserts all monkeys are French.
Kristin: ​And so here we have Willow speaking in French. There’s a monkey
on the table, she’s referencing this line.


Jenny: ​The monkey doesn’t have pants, she’s saying “The hippo stole your
pants.”
Kristin: ​Right, which is interesting ‘cause as we unpack – one of the big plot
pieces in this episode is, is Buffy’s dream a premonition or is it just a dream?
Right?
Jenny: ​Right.
Kristin: ​And that fact right there alone, Buffy was not privy to that
conversation between Oz and Willow, right?
Jenny: ​Nope.
Kristin: ​So that kind of points to this being more of a premonition. I mean,
whatever, we all know it was a premonition.
Jenny: ​I thought the way you were going to end the sentence “what’s
interesting about that is” was: “a hippo couldn’t possibly wear a monkey’s
pants [Kristin laughs] because they’re very different sizes.”
Kristin: ​Yeah, I really took a turn. I took a turn from where you thought I
was going. And the other piece of this dream that I fucking love is Joyce with
this plate.
Jenny: ​Oh yeah.
Kristin: ​Which is also the thing that we see in reality, one of the pieces that
is starting to click together in Buffy’s mind that this was not a dream, this
was a premonition. But Joyce, she drops that little saucer and she turns
around – it’s just so creepy!
Jenny: ​And she’s still holding her hand as though the plate is still resting on
it after it’s fallen.
Kristin: ​Great job, great job, everyone.
Jenny: ​And then Buffy sees Angel from across the room.


Kristin: ​And this is some of the best acting we’ve seen Sarah Michelle Gellar
do.
Jenny: ​Great face.
Kristin: ​Like, incredible face. This reminds me of – have you ever seen the
movie ​Unfaithful ​with Diane Lane?
Jenny: ​You made me watch it.
Kristin: ​Of course I did. I think it’s some of the best acting. Diane Lane’s
acting – so Diane Lane, spoiler alert for ​Unfaithful​, a movie from 2002.
Diane Lane cheats on her husband and she’s having this moment, which is
kind of akin to the first time you have sex. It’s where you’re – or any time
you have good sex, I guess. Where you have it and then later, you’re
replaying it in your mind and you’re kind of like giddy and you can’t keep it
together. And Diane Lane has this scene on the train riding back where she
keeps seeing flashes of this sex that she has just had with this man in New
York City, and it’s like, whatever. And her face acting is incredible. It’s so
incredible. If you haven’t seen the movie, you should watch it just for Diane
Lane’s face acting in that one scene alone.
Jenny: ​[chuckles]
Kristin: ​But Buffy or Sarah Michelle Gellar really nails this in this moment. I
mean, her face barely moves. It’s like the tiniest little moves in her face and
you know exactly what she’s feeling –
Jenny: ​Yeah.
Kristin: ​And of course, who she’s seeing.
Jenny: ​Yes. And then... Drusilla pops up and kills Angel. Ta-da!
Kristin: ​Sorry!
Jenny: ​During this scene when whatever song is playing in the background
is playing, I kept – both times we watched it, I was like, is this “Rose” by


Portishead, no it’s not. Is this “Rose” by Portishead, no, it’s not. The
Portishead song is like [singing] “How can you feel…”
Kristin: ​[laughs]
Jenny: ​[singing] “in this moment…” You know the one. You know what I’m
talking about out there… globe! But it’s not that song. But I feel like they
really wanted that song but it just didn’t end up working, maybe the license
was too expensive or maybe Portishead was like, “we don’t license things
because we are very cool.”
Kristin: ​One day when we have Marti Noxon or Joss Whedon on our
podcast, we can ask them that very important question.
Jenny: ​Yes.
Kristin: ​What song ​did​ you want for the dream sequence in “Surprise”?
Jenny: ​Yeah, we’ll get some answers. Hell yeah.
Kristin: ​Okay, so the credits happen.
Jenny: ​Oh yeah.
Kristin: ​Get the credits, great, have a good time. And now we’re out of the
credits and here we have Buffy and Angel – ‘cause Buffy has run to Angel’s
house ‘cause she’s panicked.
Jenny: ​Yeah.
Kristin: ​She’s like “I had this dream, I don’t think it was a dream.” And this
is really interesting to me because Angel – and I don’t know if it’s just like
Angel is saying “It was just a dream” because he wants her to be calm but
he’s going to look into it? But Angel and Giles have a markedly different
response to Buffy being like, “I had this dream and it scared me.” Angel
being like, “Listen it’s okay, it was just a dream” and Giles being like, “Yo,
we should take this seriously and put some thought into this because you’re
the slayer and your dreams have more meaning.”


Jenny: ​Yeah, well, how much do you think of that has to do with the fact
that specifically her dream was about Angel dying? So Angel’s like…
Kristin: ​Oh, so Angel’s like, “Yeah, I’m not gonna die.”​ ​Yeah, that’s true.
Jenny: ​“No, it’s chill, I’m alive. I’ve lived for 241 years so…”
Kristin: ​And how much of it do you think had to do with Angel being like,
“Shut up and kiss me”?
Jenny: ​And how much of it [laughing] do you think had to do with Angel
being like “I’m just hanging out in my apartment​ shirtless​ but I am wearing
this long dangly necklace.”
Kristin: ​Also, he puts his shirt on for her which –
Jenny: ​Hell yeah.
Kristin: ​Seems like the opposite of the Angel –
Jenny: ​I love when a guy puts a shirt on for me. Oh right, but that’s the
opposite of his normal vibe.
Kristin: ​Yeah, that’s the anti-Angel. Putting a shirt on? I’ve never thought of
such a nonsense thing. So Buffy’s like “what if, what if, what if” and Angel
kisses her to shut her up!
Jenny: ​Mmhmm.
Kristin: ​You know, the best to shut a woman up… just kidding, guys [they
laugh]. One thing that we want to talk about in this scene I think is how
many rings Buffy is wearing.
Jenny: ​So many ri – every ring. A ring on every finger.
Kristin:​ A ring on every finger. And I said to Jenny ‘cause she was like “look
at all those rings” and I was like “yeah, didn’t you have a ring on every
finger in the 90s?” And yes, you did.


Jenny: ​Yes, I did.
Kristin: ​And so did I. Everybody did.
Jenny: ​Of course.
Kristin: ​Jenny boasted actually about her thumb ring.
Jenny: ​Yeah I had a – [laughing] I didn’t boast!
Kristin: ​You did, you were like, [boastfull] “I even had a thumb ring.”
Jenny: ​[laughing] Yeah, that was my tone and meaning, yes, correct.
Kristin: ​[laughing] You were like, “hold on, I gotta tweet about this. I gotta
tell everybody that I, Jenny Owen Youngs, had a thumb ring.”
Jenny: ​I even had a claddagh ring, did you have a claddagh ring?
Kristin: ​I didn’t, I was gonna ask you if you had a claddagh ring.
Jenny: ​Wow.
Kristin: ​I did not have a claddagh ring.
Jenny: ​I did!
Kristin: ​Did somebody give it to you or did you just want to have it on your
hand for fun?
Jenny: ​I think I just wanted to have it on my hand for fun.
Kristin: ​Did you wear it in particular ways to symbol where you were at in
your relationship status?
Jenny: ​Yeah, of course!
Kristin: ​Oh, I’m so sorry.


Jenny: ​Always single.
Kristin: ​[laughs] Yeah, what direction do you put it in if you’re single and
ready to mingle? That’s the point down –
Jenny: ​The heart facing out, pointing out, yeah. So, great. So Buffy’s all
like, [whispers] “The part at the end of the night where we have to say
goodbye is getting harder.”
Kristin: ​[trying not to laugh] Wow, that’s great acting, Jenny.
Jenny: ​[laughing] Thank you. And Angel’s like, “It’s getting harder for me
too.” And then Kristin was like, “hehehehe, getting harder.”
Kristin: ​Yeah, sorry, guys.
Jenny: ​Great.
Kristin: ​And then Willow’s hat.
Jenny: ​Listen, someone murdered Grimace and turned him into Willow’s
hat!
Kristin: ​[laughing] Skinned him and took the top of his head, rolled it up,
and popped it on Willow’s head.
Jenny: ​What the – what? What? What?
Kristin: ​Oh, it’s so good.
Jenny: ​That ain’t right.
Kristin: ​Buffy and Willow have this great conversation about how Buffy is
gonna do it.
Jenny: ​Buffy’s like, “I think I’m ready.”
Kristin: ​Yeah.


Jenny: ​And Willow’s like, “Wow. Wow. Wow.”
Kristin:​ Yes. So many…
Jenny: ​“Wow.”
Kristin: ​Yes, so many wows, it’s so cute. Willow is so adorable in this scene.
Jenny: ​Awww.
Kristin: ​Buffy is very sexual in this scene, talking about sex.
Jenny: ​Mmmm.
Kristin: ​She’s like “you know, when you blah blah blah, you just have to
seize ​it. [Jenny laughs] I think we’re ready to ​seize ​it.” And we’re like, Buffy,
we get it. We get it, okay?! We know you want to put his penis in your
vagina!
Jenny: ​Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa! Kids listen to this podcast!
Kristin: ​Sorry. Also I should add that penis and vagina is not the only way
to define sexual intercourse. So there.
Jenny: ​Good. So then we’ve got this great conversation between Willow and
Oz.
Kristin: ​Yes. Oh, before we get to Willow and Oz, I just want to say, I really
liked the callback here of Willow saying to Buffy, “Well, carpe diem. That’s
what you told me that one time.”
Jenny: ​Oh, right. In the pilot of this show.
Kristin: ​Yeah.
Jenny: ​That’s what Willow said.
Kristin: ​“Do you remember in the pilot?” But I thought that was fun.
Anyway so Willow and Oz, this is adorable.


Jenny: ​This is the best.
Kristin: ​Yeah.
Jenny: ​Framing the fact that you are about to ask someone out, just like,
letting them know and telling them, you know, as a friend that you’re like,
“I’m having this anxiety right now about the fact that I’m going to ask you
out in a minute. I’m pretty nervous about it.”
Kristin: ​Yeah and Willow’s perfect response.
Jenny: ​Yeah.
Kristin: ​“Well, I just want you to know that when you do ask, I’m gonna say
yes.”
Jenny: ​Ahhh!
Kristin: ​So cute! This is like something I would write on Everyone is Gay for
advice.
Jenny: ​Yes.
Kristin: ​When somebody was like “How do I ask out my friend? I’m so
nervous.” I’d be like “you should ask her if you can ask her out.”
Jenny: ​Yeah.
Kristin: ​It’s cute, it’s cute. Okay, so Angel and Buffy are hot and heavy.
Willow and Oz are cute and adorable. And then we get to the other couple…
Jenny: ​Oh geez.
Kristin: ​My note is “ugh, these two.”
Jenny: ​Yeah [laughing].


Kristin: ​Cordelia and Xander at the locker. Xander is bringing his feelings to
the locker, he’s saying, “Listen, this thing is happening between us. This
surprise party is happening. I think we should go as a couple.”
Jenny: ​And listen, props to Xander for being the more emotionally in-touch
one of the pair of them.
Kristin: ​Yes.
Jenny: ​But of course, it’s easy, as Cordelia notes, for him to be that half of
the dynamic –
Kristin: ​Oh lord.
Jenny: ​Because as she puts it, he has nothing –
Jenny and Kristin: ​[in unison] To be ashamed of.
Kristin: ​So burn, a serious burn by Cordelia. And then Xander immediately
casts aside this emotional maturity. Fair, ‘cause he’s just been burned, but
he calls – he names the person that had that emotional maturity “Idiot Jed.”
Jenny: ​[laughing] When will we next see Idiot Jed?
Kristin: ​I hope – I like Idiot Jed, it turns out.
Jenny: ​Yeah, I hope Idiot Jed comes around.
Kristin: ​Idiot Jed is a better version I think of the Xander that we know.
Jenny: ​Yeah, the Xander that we know scores some points by calling Giles a
“funky party weasel.”
Kristin: ​And then immediately loses those points by saying “Are you ready
for your pre-birthday spanking?”
Jenny:​ Boooo!
Kristin: ​This made me uncomfortable.


Jenny: ​Didn’t love it.
Kristin: ​And you know what? It made everyone in the scene uncomfortable.
[Jenny laughs] Everyone in the scene with Xander is not happy with Xander.
Jenny: ​Yeah.
Kristin: ​Jenny Calendar is like “fuck off”, Giles is like “fuck off”, and Buffy is
like [tiredly] “Ugh, fuck off.” [They both laugh] ‘Cause Xander is really –
come on, man. Come on, man! [sing-song] Xander is holding a place in line
for the patriarchy.
Jenny: ​The patriarchy?!
Kristin: ​Yes, indeed. It was like a question and a declaration all at once.
[Jenny laughs] And the thing – here’s the thing. ‘Cause we know that there
are people out there that are like “Oh, so Cordy gets to turn around and be a
total jerk and you give her a pass and then Xander blah blah blah blah blah.”
Fine, okay? We get it. But Xander’s pattern is becoming very established
here. Xander’s pattern is that Xander says a nice thing, does a nice thing,
yes. And then the moment that that nice thing is not received the way he
would like or his desire is not returned, he gets really angry and he does shit
that’s fucked up. So we’re gonna call him out on that, you guys. I’m sorry, if
you want something else you must go somewhere else.
Jenny: ​But also, just to toss this on the table as well, while we’re talking
about Xander and women, later in the episode when they’re doing
round-robin and calling around to all their parents saying they’re staying at
somebody else’s house, Xander calls home and has to tell his mom who he
is.
Kristin: ​Yes.
Jenny: ​His mom doesn’t even reali –
Kristin: ​Yes.
Jenny: ​You know, we’re getting a clear picture of Xander’s home life.


Kristin: ​Yes.
Jenny: ​And the amount of neglect that seems to be going on. It’s not like
this behavior comes out of nowhere.
Kristin: ​Right and that’s – not to take us down another Xander wormhole.
But there’s something important about the fact we separate – we do our
best to separate the actions that are happening here and how we feel about
the actions, and also where those actions are rooted in and the fact that
there’s a larger system at play. We’ve said this here before.
Jenny: ​Right.
Kristin: ​But it bears repeating, I’m sure we’ll repeat it again. That, right,
Xander’s coming from a place of – I mean, Xander is also living inside of
where, Jenny?
Jenny: ​[softly] ...The patriarchy?
Kristin: ​You got it.
Jenny: ​Whew.
Kristin: ​Nailed it.
Jenny: ​I was like [nervous sounds].
Kristin: ​So anyway. Moving on. We will – I’m sure that someday, we will
spend at least one solid hour speaking about our feelings on Xander and the
patriarchy.
Jenny: ​No doubt. But in the meantime –
Kristin: ​In the meantime.
Jenny: ​Let’s talk about good old HPV. Harry Potter Vampire.
Kristin: ​Yes, HPV.


Jenny: ​Back on the scene.
Kristin: ​HPV’s biggest episode to date.
Jenny: ​Mmhmm.
Kristin: ​Great great work all around by HPV. Drusilla is – now, we
mentioned Drusilla in the dream but Dru is back and she is strong.
Jenny: ​Very strong.
Kristin: ​And oh boy. [laughing] Oh boy!
Jenny: ​Spike’s got wheels. Dru is very powerful.
Kristin: ​Mmhmm.
Jenny:​ She’s licking his face burn, it’s a whole thing.
Kristin: ​She’s licking his burns, she’s like flipping out all left and right. Now
I would not allow this episode to happen without us all getting to sit together
and listen to our wonderful Drusilla as she looks at the flowers for her party.
[Audio clip plays]
Drusilla: ​These flowers are wrong. They’re all wrong. [makes
disgusted sound] I can’t abide them! [screams and starts tearing the
flowers apart].
Spike: ​Let’s try something different with the flowers then.
[Audio clip ends]
Kristin: ​So… oh boy.
Jenny: ​[sighs] Oh, god. Juliet Landau is so great.
Kristin: ​God, she’s incredible. She – I mean, she might be one of my top,
top, top favorite actors on this show, Juliet Landau.
Jenny: ​Yeah.


Kristin: ​I mean, this is incredible. Also, it reminded me – I told you this,
Jenny, but I thought it was interesting that she’s flipping out over the
flowers, which seem to be red roses, I think?
Jenny: ​Mmhmm.
Kristin: ​Because it reminded me of “Alice in Wonderland” right? Painting the
roses red and the Queen who’s like – the whole character of the Queen in
“Alice in Wonderland” is that she’s a bit batty. And she loses her mind over
the roses not being the roses that she wanted ‘cause they painted them red,
they’re not real red roses, the whole thing. I just felt like there was a parallel
here.
Jenny: ​Oh yeah.
Kristin: ​The long and short of it being Drusilla, oh my god, you’re the best
and you’d get your jingle now. But we’re gonna wait ‘cause there’s a lot of
other things you do in this episode that are phenomenal.
Jenny: ​Yeah. Meanwhile…
Kristin: ​Meanwhile, Joyce drops her plate.
Jenny: ​Joyce drops the plate right after Buffy spends a few minutes putting
about a kajillion bangles onto her wrist. I guess they’re not properly bangles.
Kristin: ​Yeah that was – I totally rocked out the bangles in the 90s.
Jenny: ​Just a kajillion? On one arm?
Kristin: ​Oh yeah. And like jelly bracelets too. Remember jelly bracelets?
Jenny: ​I remember jelly bracelets.
Kristin: ​Jelly bracelets were an 80s thing and then they got cool again when
Gwen Stefani did her music video for [singing] “Don’t speak, I know just
what…”


Jenny: ​Wow.
Kristin: ​‘Cause she’s wearing jelly bracelets.
Jenny: ​Okay.
Kristin: ​Whatever.
Jenny: ​Yep.
Kristin: ​So now it’s Buffy’s birthday. Joyce drops the plate. We’re getting
closer and closer to, of course, knowing that this is not a dream, this shit’s
happening.
Jenny: ​Mmhmm.
Kristin: ​And then we go to Jenny Calendar. Ohhhh, uh-oh. My Giga Pet is
sad Jenny.
Jenny: ​Why?
Kristin: ​I didn’t mean to interrupt this podcast, but I want to let everyone
know that based​ ​on my inspiration from “Bad Eggs”, I bought myself a Giga
Pet. His name is Chicken, he’s a cat. [Jenny laughs] And he’s sad all the
time. So it just brought him to life just a couple moments ago and he’s
feeling sad. He’s just real sad, so I don’t know. I was about to talk about
Jenny Calendar. So maybe you should talk about Jenny Calendar for a
minute while I tend to Chicken, my cat.
Jenny: ​Yeah, you tend to Chicken the cat. I’ll let our listeners…
Kristin: ​It’s just, like, he’s so needy.
Jenny: ​Yeah and you already have a wife.
Kristin: ​Right? God.
Jenny: ​Yeah, I get sad and need stuff.


Kristin: ​It’s just like you’re a cat, man. You know what I mean? Cats don’t
need things.
Jenny: ​Mmmm. It’s a unique cat.
Kristin: ​Anyway, I’m gonna feed him.
Jenny: ​Okay, you feed Chicken and I’ll tell our wonderful listeners about
what happens next. We go to the computer lab where Jenny Calendar
receives a visit from a mysterious man in a floppy hat. You may remember
him as the subway ghost from Ghost. You may remember him as Lanny
from the “Humbug” episode of The X-Files.
Kristin: ​[laughs] Wow.
Jenny: ​But here he is.
Kristin: ​Uncle Anyos.
Jenny: ​Enyos, I think.
Kristin: ​Enyos, I’m sorry. Uncle Enyos. Yeah and there’s a big – sorry, in
case you’re worried about…
Jenny: ​How’s Chicken?
Kristin: ​I put Chicken to sleep. I don’t know how Giga Pets work so that
seemed to be the thing that would –
Jenny: ​You put your pet to sleep?
Kristin: ​Oh, that’s really bad wording on my part. He’s sleeping.
Jenny: ​You put your pet to bed?
Kristin: ​I put him to bed, I put him to bed so that I could talk about Uncle
Enyos.
[Update plays]


Kristin: ​[very somber voice] We recorded this episode on Wednesday, April
12th, one week ago. Chicken lived until Friday, April 14th [Jenny laughs]
2017. RIP Chicken.
Jenny: ​We hardly knew ye.
Kristin: ​Back to talking about Uncle Enyos.
[Update ends]
Kristin: ​So this is a big reveal here, right? Jenny Calendar is of the Romani
people. Jenny Calendar is not her actual name, her actual name is Janna of
the Kalder…
Jenny: ​Kalderash.
Kristin: ​Kalderash people.
Jenny: ​And we learn that she is apparently in Sunnydale in the capacity of
sort of monitoring Angel and making sure that he’s miserable because –
Kristin: ​Yeah.
Jenny: ​Her people are the people who cursed him and re-ensouled him.
Kristin: ​Right. And so before we go forward with more conversation around
Jenny Calendar and this whole thing, we just want to talk about the fact that
Uncle Enyos uses – so he talks about the Kalderash people. And then
immediately after that says, like, “You’re a gypsy.” And that is a word that is
super problematic for a lot of reasons and so we just wanted to take a
second – someone sent us – we talked about it on the podcast before but
this really incredible book called ​Joss Whedon and Race​ that has –
Jenny: ​It’s a collection of essays.
Kristin: ​Yeah, it’s a collection of essays and this essay is called
“Representations of the Roma in Buffy and Angel.” And it is by Katya
McClain. And so I just want to read a couple of pieces of it to sort of


contextualize this moment that happens. And it’s not the first moment, we
also saw some of this in “Angel” in season one.
Jenny: ​Mmhmm.
Kristin: ​So first of all, just to give a little context on the Roma, now I’m
quoting from the article: “The Roma are a people who originated in northern
India, entered Europe at the end of the 13th century, and who speak or are
descended from ancestors who spoke the Romani language. The Roma were
seen as an excludable ‘other’ from almost the first moment that they
entered Europe. The term ‘gypsy,’ historically applied to the Roma by
English speakers, is both inaccurate, since it is derived from their imagined
origin in Egypt, and problematic, because it has accrued a pejorative
resonance from the long history of marginalization, persecution, and racism
to which the Roma have been subjected.”
And so to give you a snapshot, some of you may already know this, but the
Roma people have faced slavery in what is now Romania. They were nearly
exterminated entirely by the Nazis during the Holocaust. And many of them
who immigrated to America also faced prejudice and stereotypes and laws
that targeted Roma. This article points out that those laws were on the
books, in some cases, until the 1980s. So that’s a little bit of history that I
think is helpful to know ‘cause I think some of us, myself included, know
that that’s a word that you’re not supposed to use, but I didn’t really have
the history.
Jenny: ​Mmhmm.
Kristin: ​This essay, it’s great if you can get your hands on a copy of the
book. We actually Googled the title of the article “Representations of the
Roma in Buffy and Angel” and it pulled up the article in Google Books. And it
looked like you could read, if not all of it, a really good portion of it. But if
you can get your hands on the book, I would highly recommend it.
Jenny: ​Yeah.
Kristin: ​We have not finished it yet but everything that we’ve read in it has
been really incredible and really eye-opening and really important. So Katya
talks in the article about the fact that there’s a problematic nature in the fact


that this term is used so often in television and cinema, because of its very
direct connection in our minds as like, “this word means this thing.” Because
the Roma people and the word “gypsy” was associated so closely with
thievery and casting of spells and you know, all of these things that are
often associated with people on the margins as well.
Jenny: ​Mmhmm.
Kristin: ​And so what she points out here, which I found really interesting,
was that the research was done here for this uncle to use the proper name
of the specific part of the Roma people that Jenny and himself belong to, the
Kalderash. But then right after it, he says this word “gypsy.” And she
suggests that perhaps that word is being used to let everybody know, oh, by
the way, in case you didn’t know what this meant, this is what it means.
Which is so problematic –
Jenny:​ Mmhmm.
Kristin: ​Because it does exactly that thing that we said. First of all, it’s not
an appropriate word to use. But second of all, it brings up all of these
images that we’ve been shown over and over again, especially in the U.S., in
cinema and movies and such in a way that’s unfortunate.
Jenny: ​You are doing – you are just ​crushing​ it.
Kristin: ​I’m just gonna finish with a little quote from the article which says:
“It’s disappointing that a show that was said to have quote, ‘a real
commitment to and respect for the intelligence of its viewers,’ end-quote,
chose to leave the viewer with an inaccurate, problematic term, thereby
reinforcing, rather than subverting, Western cinematic stereotypes.”
Jenny: ​Exactly.
Kristin: ​So I thought this was a really cool analysis. And you know, I think
we’re here in a space where we can talk about some of the problematic
pieces of the show and still love the show. But this is important and we get
to revisit it and we get to unpack the fact that this term was used and why it
might have been used and why it’s really problematic in the first place.


Jenny: ​Mmhmm.
Kristin: ​So again, if you can get your hands on that article, I would go for it
and read it and learn. And in the meantime…
Jenny: ​In the meantime, the elder woman says his pain is lessening.
Kristin: ​Yeah.
Jenny: ​Jenny Calendar searches her mind for what the cause of that
lessening of pain could be and delivers the answer to her uncle: “There’s a
girl.” And his immediate response is “How could you let this happen?!”
Kristin: ​Yeah.
Jenny: ​“How could you let this happen?!”
Kristin: ​Yeah and this – okay, Jenny Calendar has not given us a moment’s
notice like – [Jenny laughs] You know what I mean, like, she hasn’t –
Jenny: ​We’ve seen nothing.
Kristin: ​She has been like, “Oh man, Buffy. You have a crush on Angel.”
She’s been like –
Jenny: ​Yeah.
Kristin: ​Like, she fully forgot why she was there. She was like, “I’m in love
with Giles…”
Jenny: ​[laughing] Yeah.
Kristin: ​“Angel and Buffy, this is great. I love computers…”
Jenny: ​Just like hanging out. I believe the actress who plays Jenny Calendar
and the actress who plays Cordelia are the same age.
Kristin: ​Yeah, I think we did find – or very close, if not the same.


Jenny: ​Just worth noting. So it makes sense that she just wants to hang
with the gals [Kristin laughs] and talk about boys and cast some bones on
the internet.
Kristin: ​So, but this is a big plot – this is a big plot point that we see really
just introduced in this episode. We don’t really see much more come of this,
apart from thinking that Jenny Calendar is going to murder Buffy later in the
episode.
Jenny: ​But apparently, she’s just taking Buffy to a surprise party.
Kristin: ​Yeah but she’s –
Jenny: ​But in the creepiest possible way.
Kristin: ​In the creepiest way and like, this is a weird – Robia LaMorte, is
that how you say the actress’s name?
Jenny: ​I’ve never heard it said aloud by someone who would know for sure.
Kristin: ​So sorry, some facts that we should probably know but don’t. But I
just – I was a little frustrated with her acting in this episode.
Jenny: ​It just felt very inconsistent with everything we’ve seen up to this
point.
Kristin: ​Yeah.
Jenny: ​But maybe she’s shook.
Kristin: ​I guess, I don’t know, I don’t have excuses for it. I just – I was not
satisfied. The look that she gives as Buffy walks to her car to drive away was
like [Jenny laughs], if you’re just bringing her to the surprise party, why did
you take the cue –
Jenny: ​[laughing] Look like a serial killer?
Kristin: ​To give her murder eyes? [laughing] Yeah, like, come on, man. But
yeah, so big plot point there. Another ​huge ​plot point is Willow’s dog shirt.


Jenny: ​Yeah, that Scottie dog sweater, [sing-songy] what is up?!
Kristin: ​That is a great sweater. If anyone ever sees that sweater on a rack
somewhere in a Salvation Army or elsewhere, please, please send it to me. I
will wear it with such pride and joy. But don’t ever send me the hats. I don’t
want the hats, I don’t want to know them, don’t want to have them on my
head. Um, so how ‘bout this surprise party?
Jenny: ​Um, I have a lot to say about it.
Kristin: ​Yeah.
Jenny: ​First of all, Buffy’s fighting the vamps in the alleyway and then her
entrance to the Bronze is she crashes through the big window that’s behind
the stage.
Kristin: ​She loves that, she loves a good window crash.
Jenny: ​Now, dig it. We haven’t met him quite yet in the episode but the
Judge is coming and the Judge is portrayed by Brian Thompson –
Kristin: ​Wooo!
Jenny: ​Who previously played Luke.
Kristin: ​Yeah.
Jenny: ​The last time that window got broken [Kristin gasps] was in Season
1, Episode 2 –
Kristin: ​Wow, Jenny, ​wow​.
Jenny: ​“The Harvest” when Buffy tricks Luke into thinking that sunlight’s
about to come through the window and that’s how she kills him.
Kristin: ​What a brain, what a great connection.


Jenny: ​What. Is. Up? Meanwhile! [Kristin laughs] We’re throwing you a
surprise party, the guest list is four peers –
Kristin: ​Yeah.
Jenny: ​Four students, two teachers!
Kristin: ​Mmhmm.
Jenny: ​And one bicentennial vampire.
Kristin: ​Listen, a slayer’s circle is small. Small but mighty [Jenny laughs].
That’s what we have here. But you know, I just [laughing] –
Jenny: ​The lighting…
Kristin: ​I just really feel like they could have maybe put a CD on, you
know?
Jenny: ​Yeah!
Kristin: ​Just anything to make it a little more festive. Although there’s a
shot of the pool table, which they’re using as the snacks table –
Jenny: ​Uh huh.
Kristin: ​And I really got a kick out of the fact that they had purple and white
napkins and they were like, ooh, I know. We’ll take purple and then white
and then purple and then white [Jenny laughs] and then purple and then
white. They had it all set up and then they were like, the table looks a little
empty. I know, let’s take the balls from the pool table and put them in a nice
design –
Jenny: ​Scatter them about like a constellation.
Kristin: ​Yeah. [laughs] As decor.
Jenny: ​So we also – this scene also serves to introduce Oz to the fact that
vampires are real.


Kristin: ​Yeah.
Jenny: ​And he is… not phased.
Kristin: ​No he’s not… oh, not ​phased​?
Jenny: ​No, not ​phased​.
Kristin: ​What an interesting choice of words.
Jenny: ​So he’s just like, “oh, what’s up? That explains… a lot.”
Kristin: ​Yeah.
Jenny: ​Then they open up the crate that the vampires were trucking around
outside.
Kristin: ​Which they did with such abandon, it was like –
Jenny: ​They’re like, sure, why not?
Kristin: ​Yeah, let’s open this thing and not like – I just felt like guys, come
on, maybe don’t just throw it open? I just feel like in other scenarios, they’re
like –
Jenny: ​Proceed with caution.
Kristin: ​Yeah, you don’t want to open this thing. We should look it up, we
should fucking take it to the lab. I don’t know, do something.
Jenny: ​But instead, they just throw it open and Buffy immediately gets
throttled by a disembodied arm.
Kristin: ​Yeah. I referred to this in my notes, just so you know, as “the glove
box” which gave me a good chuckle.
Jenny: ​Ha!


Kristin: ​It’s the glove box, the old glove box. I also want to say, I want to
give a few shout outs. One to – two to Cordelia. [Jenny laughs] Cordelia has
two great moments in the surprise party. The first being when she jumps out
after the whole thing [Jenny laughs] and says “Surprise!”
Jenny: ​Great job, Cordelia.
Kristin: ​Great job, Cordelia. And the second, after the whole conversation
about the glove and the whole – she’s like “Is anyone else going to eat some
cake?”
Jenny: ​Yeah. [laughs]
Kristin: ​I just love her, we know I love her.
Jenny: ​She’s got her priorities.
Kristin: ​Yes and the other thing I wanted to point out about the party is
how happy Buffy is when she realizes that they’ve all done this for her.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin: ​It’s a really important moment, a really nice moment, where you
know – and Giles, we kind of skipped over that, the fact that Giles was like,
you know what, guys? What I’ve learned living on the Hellmouth and doing
the work that I do is that when somebody turns 17, you celebrate it.
Jenny: ​Yeah.
Kristin: ​Even if we’re all going to die a moment later. If you’re going to
press pause every time something horrible is happening, you’re never going
to get to do these great things.
Jenny: ​Yep yep yep.
Kristin: ​Which I think is an important life lesson even if you don’t live on a
Hellmouth.
Jenny: ​Celebrate what you can when you can.


Kristin: ​Yes, exactly. So.
Jenny: ​So.
Kristin: ​We learn about the Judge.
Jenny: ​Angel puts it together very quickly, he’s like “I’d recognize that
disembodied arm anywhere. [Kristin laughs] She wouldn’t, she couldn’t,
Drusilla, she’s bananas, oh God.” And then he’s all like, “I gotta go.”
Actually, Jenny Calendar is like –
Kristin: ​Jenny Calendar, ugh.
Jenny: ​“Angel, you have to get that arm out of here.” [Kristin laughs] And
Angel’s like “I gotta go” and Buffy’s like “But it’s my birthday!”
Kristin: ​Yeah. And then Angel and Buffy are looking lovingly into each
other’s eyes. [Jenny laughs] And into the frame comes Jenny Calendar and
she’s like “I’ll drive you to the docks.” Like dude, calm down. Take a breath.
Jenny: ​Yeah, I think the last time we saw that framing, Buffy was talking to
Owen and Angel was popping into the middle.
Kristin: ​Yes, like, come on, Jenny. Come on…
Jenny: ​Like a creep.
Kristin: ​And so right, so we learn too that the Judge has parts all over and
that if the parts are all brought together, that he will live again.
Jenny: ​Yes.
Kristin: ​And we also learn that the Judge separates the righteous from the
wicked. And not in the way that Jesus comes down in the Bible to separate
the righteous from the wicked. I don’t know, you guys, I’m just –
Jenny: ​Did he come down or –?


Kristin: ​No but like, you know, the Second Coming –
Jenny: ​Oh oh oh.
Kristin: ​The Second Coming is like, he will come again and separate the
righteous from the wicked and keep the righteous.
Jenny: ​Sheeps and goats.
Kristin: ​And send the wicked away. The Judge is the opposite. The Judge is
like, you are righteous, you are wicked. I keep you if you’re wicked, if you’re
righteous, goodbye.
Jenny: ​Yes.
Kristin: ​So that’s how the Judge works and I want to talk about that in a
second.
Jenny: ​But first! HPV gets his glasses stomped by Drusilla.
Kristin: ​Oh my god, I love this moment.
Jenny: ​And then she almost pokes his eyeballs out.
Kristin: ​She has such a good time with it too, with her two little pointy
fingers aimed at his eyeballs.
Jenny: ​Yeah.
Kristin: ​And then the thing she does with her arms when she decides not to
poke them out, where she wants to scare him anyway…
Jenny: ​Yeah.
Kristin: ​Really great, really, really great. She lets him free because as Spike
says, he’s one of the only vampires with half a brain, we probably should
keep him around.
Jenny: ​Right, good idea.


Kristin: ​And then we go to the docks.
Jenny: ​To the docks.
Kristin: ​To the docks. So the Sunnydale docks, on the corner of 17 alleys on
the sea. What? Where is this?
Jenny: ​Yeah, exactly. It’s just all alleys and then the ocean.
Kristin: ​And then the ocean.
Jenny: ​Um, it’s claddagh ring time, baby! [Kristin laughs] Hell yeah!
Kristin: ​Oh my god, that should be a ringtone. [Jenny laughs] It’s claddagh
ring – okay.
Jenny: ​Angel’s like, what’s up, girl? I have to go but let me give you this
ring. It’s two hands holding a heart wearing a crown and if you wear it with
– first of all, he’s like, “friendship – the hands are friendship –”
Kristin: ​Yes.
Jenny: ​“The crown is loyalty and the heart is… well, you know.”
Kristin: ​“You know.” [Jenny laughs] Let’s just take a minute here for Angel,
me being – the whole episode, me being like, “Angel, seriously? Like
seriously?” He’s like, “I… [dramatic pause] I.” [Jenny laughs] He says ‘I’ and
then pauses like 486 times. Get it together, man.
Jenny: ​Yeah.
Kristin: ​Say what you mean, mean what you say.
Jenny: ​But it’s pretty slick that he’s like, “If you wear it with the heart
pointing towards you, it means you belong to somebody.”
Kristin: ​Mmhmm.


Jenny: ​“Like this!” And he’s already wearing one like that!
Kristin: ​He’s like, [suavely] “Buffy, you own me.”
Jenny: ​Yeah. [suavely] “Mmmm, Buffy I’m property.”
Kristin: ​[Jenny and Kristin laugh] I’m into it. Me, Kristin, I’m into it. I wasn’t
playing Buffy, I was playing Kristin.
Jenny: ​Yeah. Then he’s like “I...” and then it’s like, vampire interrupted!
Kristin: ​He says “Buffy...” and then he pauses for four hours [Jenny laughs]
and then he says “I,” and then he pauses for four hours. And the vampire’s
like, “You know, man? I was going to give you a chance [Jenny laughs] to
say what you were gonna say, but forget it!” I just –
Jenny: ​But the vampire jumps down ‘cause he’s very impatient.
Kristin: ​Before the vampire jumps down, I think something important in this
exchange between Buffy and Angel is this conversation around, like – she
doesn’t want him to leave. And not because she’s gonna miss him, although
she will. But she doesn’t want him to leave because she doesn’t know – the
kind of life that both of them live, they don’t know how long they’re going to
live.
Jenny: ​Mmhmm.
Kristin: ​It’s like a very specific thing, it’s a very specific situation that I
think has come up a couple of times already and will come up again where
she’s like, we have to be realistic about the fact that you could – in six
months, I might not be around anymore. My life is threatened every episode
of the television –
Jenny: ​Yeah.
Kristin: ​She’s like, “Angel, I’m in this TV series and every episode, I almost
die.”
Jenny: ​Yeah.


Kristin: ​“So, you never know what the writers are going to do.” [laughs]
Jenny: ​“They’re unpredictable.”
Kristin: ​They’re unpredictable. But I just thought that that was really
important, a really important piece of this whole thing is they’re falling in
love, but the stakes – and like…
Jenny: ​The ​stakes​?
Kristin: ​Oh boy. [They both laugh] We talked about this a little bit earlier
where – sorry, off air, you weren’t here for this part. But Jenny and I were
talking about the first time you fall in love, the first time you have sex and
the emotions that come along with that. And how even without carrying the
weight of the world on your shoulders, you’re really in deep.
Jenny: ​Yeah.
Kristin: ​This is one of the most overwhelming times in a person’s life is the
first time they fall in love, because you don’t know up from down. You’re
really just all over the map.
Jenny: ​Yeah.
Kristin: ​So we have that here, but it’s underpinned by this even deeper
situation with their lives and their livelihood.
Jenny: ​Speaking of lives and livelihood, there they are fighting for their lives
and livelihood. [Kristin laughs] Those three vampires that are on the docks –
Kristin: ​Yep.
Jenny: ​Including HPV, who’s grabbing the little crate. And there’s some
fighting and somebody gets away with the crate and then Buffy gets thrown
in the water and then Angel’s response is, [dramatically] “Buffy!”
Kristin: ​Yeah, like, what [laughing] –


Jenny: ​And then he jumps in the water after her. Bro, it’s just the water!
Kristin: ​Yeah, he’s like, Buffy can’t swim. I think Buffy can swim.
Jenny: ​I think they just wanted to get everybody…
Kristin: ​Wet.
Jenny: ​Nice and wet.
Kristin: ​Another theme in this episode –
Jenny: ​Is wetness.
Kristin: ​Really hit it over the head.
Jenny: ​Yeah…
Kristin: ​They’re like, oops, we fell in the ocean. Oops, the sewers sure are
damp [Jenny laughs]. Oops, it’s pouring rain.
Jenny: ​Oops, it’s raining.
Kristin: ​Like, we get it. We get it. Buffy’s in the library and she says, “We
got wet.” Just in case we missed the –
Jenny: ​My word.
Kristin: ​We get it. Everybody’s getting wet, okay.
Jenny:​ Oh boy.
Kristin: ​[laughing] My next note is “Fuck you, Xander.”
Jenny: ​[laughs] Xander has a particularly shit moment where he’s detailing
his fantasy vision of Buffy and Angel’s life together, where Buffy is working
at Denny’s during the day, slaying by night. Angel has a blood-belly –
Kristin: ​Blood-belly, yeah.


Jenny: ​And…
Kristin: ​The spark is gone.
Jenny: ​Yeah. And then Xander flies into town…
Kristin: ​On his private jet.
Jenny: ​On his private jet and takes Buffy out to prime rib and then the
cherry on top –
Kristin: ​Yes.
Jenny: ​That he loves, that he’s ​grinning​!
Kristin: ​So happy about.
Jenny: ​When he says is: “And she’s crying.”
Kristin: ​Like guys, come on. Not okay. Like even up until – wishing that
your friend is unhappy is troublesome. Wishing that your friend is unhappy
so that you can swoop in and be together with them, still troublesome.
Wishing that your friend is unhappy so you can swoop in and say
[mockingly] “I’m happy. How ‘bout you?” and watch them cry for pleasure
is... kind of fucked up guys. It’s kinda –
Jenny: ​It’s a bummer.
Kristin: ​That is what underpins my note, “Fuck you, Xander.”
Jenny: ​Fuck you, Xander.
Kristin: ​So they do the round robin. Everybody’s sleeping at everybody
else’s house. Xander’s parents don’t care where he is, we learn that pretty
briefly.
Jenny: ​Yep. And they’re doing – in researching the Judge, they come across
the information that no weapon forged can kill him.


Kristin: ​Right. There’s also a really great moment when Angel tells everyone
that Buffy hasn’t been sleeping well.
Jenny: ​[laughs] And everyone in turn flips around to stare at him.
Kristin: ​And he’s like [mockingly] “She told me, guys! Come on, man!” So
yeah, and then something that I wanted to note, so we go from the lib –
‘cause Buffy’s sleeping so we go into the second dream sequence.
Jenny: ​Mmhmm.
Kristin: ​And we already talked a little bit about the –
Jenny: ​[laughs] She’s wearing that Joan Crawford nightgown.
Kristin: ​Yeah, she’s really going for it with the white silk. But I noticed that
Drusilla seems to be wearing the same dress –
Jenny: ​Looks like it.
Kristin: ​Or a very similar dress and it’s really – it’s interesting to me the
sequence because Buffy is in the white silk and Dru is in the white silk in the
dream. And then we cut from the dream to Buffy waking up and hugging
Angel. And then it’s a close-up on Buffy’s face that fades as close as they
could get it into Drusilla’s face.
Jenny: ​Ahhhh.
Kristin: ​And then Drusilla is wearing a blood red dress.
Jenny:​ Right.
Kristin: ​So there’s just a lot of symbolism –
Jenny: ​Yeah.
Kristin: ​A lot of stuff happening here with whatever. With who knows? Who
knows what it could symbolize?


Jenny: ​Who can say?
Kristin: ​Who can say?
Jenny: ​So the biggest difference between Buffy’s party and Drusilla’s party-Kristin: ​Right.
Jenny: ​Is that there’s music and what song is Drusilla currently spinning?
Why it’s “Transylvanian Concubine” by Rasputina, the goth cello trio.
Kristin: ​Wow, that’s perfect. Nailed it. That’s exactly what –
Jenny: ​[laughing] Speaking of nailing things over the head.
Kristin: ​[laughs] Drusilla knows how to throw a party man. Drusilla’s party
is 400 times better than Buffy’s party. They need to take a couple notes
from Dru. I also really want to know which vampire is assigned to lighting all
the candles.
Jenny: ​Mmmm.
Kristin: ​I then would like to know what vampire is assigned to cleaning up
all the candles later.
Jenny: ​Probably HPV.
Kristin: ​I have a visceral memory of – so I used to work at this restaurant
in New York City that’s not there anymore. It was called Park Avalon and it
was part of the… what is it called?
Jenny: ​Be Our Guest?
Kristin: ​Thank you, it’s part of the Be Our Guest restaurant chain or it was.
And they had a candle altar thing right in the middle of the restaurant. And
it was one of our jobs every time, or two of our jobs, to fill up the candles,
all of the candles, light them all, and then they would drip down over the


thing. And then we would have to pop out the candles and clean up all the
wax, it was a whole thing.
Jenny: ​All of it? You would have to clean all the wax off that table every
day?
Kristin: ​Every day. It was a copper base and it was serious work and when
you got to work, they were like “You’re on sugars, you’re on this, you’re on
that, and you two? Candle altar.” We were like “[frustrated] Argh, fuck.”
[Jenny laughs] It’s a lot of work.
Jenny: ​I don’t know, it sounds pretty satisfying.
Kristin: ​Oh, you want that job?
Jenny: ​Yes, I’d like that job at my next shift.
Kristin: ​I will burn a candle for you every day and let you scrape the wax
off.
Jenny: ​Yay!
Kristin: ​[laughs] So just saying, I have had experience in candle lighting
and clean-up. It’s no joke.
Jenny: ​Right. So they’ve put the Judge together.
Kristin: ​Whew!
Jenny: ​And out busts –
Kristin: ​Luke!
Jenny: ​Luke. Or the alien bounty hunter from The X-Files, if you like.
Kristin: ​Or the Judge.
Jenny: ​Or the Judge.


Kristin: ​But great. I mean, you can see – all that makeup and Luke just
shines right through.
Jenny: ​He’s definitely there.
Kristin: ​And he’s great and this is great. I thought that this was interesting
too. You know, this whole, “who is righteous and who is wicked?” And that
Luke busts – sorry, the Judge busts out of his thing and he’s like, “You two.
You have humanity in you. What is this affection that you have for each
other and this jealousy that you have?”
Jenny: ​Uh huh.
Kristin: ​That essentially he is saying, as evil as Spike and Drusilla are,
they’re not wicked enough for him.
Jenny: ​Yeah.
Kristin: ​Because they love each other. And that alone –
Jenny: ​Right.
Kristin: ​Gives them a tinge of righteousness, of humanity.
Jenny: ​And Spike is like, “Fuck you.”
Kristin: ​Yeah I love Sp – Spike is fully wheelchair-bound and he’s like
“Excuse me sir?” Like, knocks on his fucking chest –
Jenny: ​Yeah, hell yeah.
Kristin: ​And is like “Uh, we brought you back? So suck it.”
Jenny: ​[laughs] Then the Judge reveals that he is not yet at full power.
Kristin: ​Mmhmm.
Jenny: ​And he needs to start killing some people.


Kristin: ​Killing some people.
Jenny: ​And who’s first to go? Why it’s poor Harry Potter Vampire.
Kristin: ​I know, ‘cause why? [sadly] “Cause this one’s full of feeling!”
Jenny: ​He’s full of feeling.​ ​He reads.
Kristin: ​He – awwww.
Jenny: ​I know.
Kristin: ​HPV.
Jenny: ​He’s gone on to a better –
Kristin: ​R.I.P, HPV [laughs]​.
Jenny: ​[laughs] R.I.P., HPV.
Kristin: ​And then Dru-silla.
Jenny: ​Oh my god, she is into it!
Kristin: ​You filla… you know?
Jenny: ​I do.
Kristin: ​She – “Do it again, do it again.” Drusilla, you earned your jingle like
an hour ago, but finally, the collection of your talents and skills give you
your jingle.
Jenny: ​Hell yeah.
[Drusilla’s jingle plays]
Drusilla, you filla my heart with dread
And still I’m lead right back to you.
Kristin: ​Wow, wow, wow. Well.


Jenny: ​Yes.
Kristin: ​If you want that beautiful jingle as a ringtone or our Cordelia jingle
as a ringtone, you can get both of those on iTunes. We know –
Jenny: ​Via your iPhone.
Kristin: ​Via your iPhone and we’ve been really delayed, we’re sorry. We
know that Android users want those ringtones too. It is on our list, we will
get to it as soon as we possibly can.
Jenny: ​Yep.
Kristin: ​We’ll let you know the minute that that happens.
Jenny: ​Mmhmm.
Kristin: ​Before we forget, we need to give a Sexual Tension Award out.
Jenny: ​Yes.
Kristin: ​Now, here’s my feelings. We’ve not discussed this previous to right
now, right this moment Jenny, but I – usually we go​ ​with the nonobvious,
right?
Jenny: ​Yeah. Usually we do something fun.
Kristin: ​But this is special. This episode is particular and I move to give it to
Buffy and Angel.
Jenny: ​I am into that.
Kristin: ​Okay. I think they really – I think they worked hard. They literally
probably have chapped lips.
Jenny: ​Think of the cumulative hours they have spent kissing each other.


Kristin: ​Yeah. Every episode, they look at us through the television set and
they’re like, “This time, guys?” And we’re like, “Nope, somebody else.”
[Jenny laughs] This time, this time, Angel and Buffy, you get it.
Congratulations.
Jenny: ​Yeah, look for the trophy in the mail.
Kristin: ​Yes, please do. We got your names engraved on it, it’s real
special-like.
Jenny: ​Yes.
Kristin: ​It says “Happy Birthday Buffy” too because of the occasion. [Jenny
giggles]. Um, so Buffy – there’s a moment that happens here where Buffy
walks into the library – or sorry, she’s in the library and she’s with Angel and
she turns around and she’s like “I have a plan and this is the fucking plan.”
And she lays out the whole thing –
Jenny: ​Mmhmm.
Kristin: ​And Giles is like [stuttering] “Uh, oh, okay.” And I feel like it’s very
intentionally put there to underline the fact that Buffy is an incredibly
capable human being –
Jenny: ​Who can make her own choices.
Kristin: ​Who can make her own choices, right.
Jenny: ​Hell yeah.
Kristin: ​Because you know, we are dealing with television and sex…
Jenny: ​And the 90s.
Kristin: ​And the 90s and I think that they wanted to make it really clear – I
mean, we see again and again of course, that Buffy is very capable, but I
feel like this explicit moment –
Jenny: ​Yeah, yeah.


Kristin: ​Of her being like “I own my shit, guys” is really leading into what
happens next.
Jenny: ​Yes.
Kristin: ​[singing] Which is a whole lot of boning!
Jenny: ​Well, but first –
Kristin: ​But first they gotta get wet.
Jenny: ​They go to Spike and Dru HQ.
Kristin: ​Yes.
Jenny: ​And the Judge smells them immediately.
Kristin: ​Duh! And Buffy doesn’t even wear her trench coat. Ugh.
Jenny: ​Or her sunglasses.
Kristin: ​[laughing] Or her disguise sunglasses.
Jenny: ​So they’re captured and brought down and it looks like they’re about
to bite the dust but then!
Kristin: ​Ooh, bite the dust, nice one.
Jenny: ​Buffy kicks ol’ what’s-his-bucket in the chest and Angel breaks away
enough to –
Kristin: ​Knock down the –
Jenny: ​Chained –
Kristin: ​Television installation? What is –? What?
Jenny: ​Yeah, that’s been there for a while.


Kristin: ​I know, no, I know, why? Is like –
Jenny: ​Spike’s just into it.
Kristin: ​Are they into, like, art? Is that an art installation?
Jenny: ​Well, they were watching the videos that – the camcorder videos
that somebody was taking of Buffy on those TVs at one point.
Kristin: ​Right but it’s very artsy, it’s very…
Jenny: ​But don’t you just picture Spike and Dru having like, I don’t know,
French films on in the background or something?
Kristin: ​Yeah, yeah, I do. Or having a live video feed from their bedroom
and instead of a mirror – oh my god,​ ​instead of a ​mirror​ –
Jenny: ​Oh...
Kristin: ​For their sexy times, they use a live video feed on the television
installation.
Jenny: ​My. God.
Kristin: ​That’s what it is, Jenny.
Jenny: ​Oh my god.
Kristin: ​I’m glad we talked about this.
Jenny: ​Thank you.
Kristin: ​Anyways…
Jenny: ​Anyway, they escape, they come up through the sewer, it’s pouring
rain. Oops, we’re ​all ​wet.


Kristin: ​If you missed – ‘cause we watch the episodes twice. And on the
second viewing, Buffy and Angel jump down into the sewers and it cuts back
up to the vampire lair. And Dru – just one line, she says “Go!” and it is so
intense and so great. And it made me happy. Thank you, Dru.
Jenny: ​Mmhmm.
Kristin: ​So right. They’re in the rain.
Jenny: ​They seek shelter at Angel’s place –
Kristin: ​Wow.
Jenny: ​And Angel says “Put this on and get under the covers, just to warm
up.”
Kristin: ​[laughs] Jenny was lying on the floor watching this and I was sitting
on the couch. And that moment happened and her hands just came up into
the air so I could see them and she did air quotes. “Just to warm them up,”
huh? That was a really good moment. So we have a really special treat.
Jenny: ​Oh my god, this is so great.
Kristin: ​Um, we have been talking about vampire sex for a couple of
episodes now, ever since Angel explained that he couldn’t have children.
What did he mean?! And so, we sat down with our friend Carolyn Yates.
Carolyn is the Not Suitable For Work and Literary editor over at
Autostraddle. She also runs sex, kink, and relationship-related workshops at
A Camp. She’s written about sex, culture, feminism, and gender for Nylon,
Bitch, the Toast, Jezebel, the Billfold, and Extra among many others, has
discussed sex and relationships on New York Magazine’s “Sex Lives” Podcast
and many other radio shows. And conducted the ultimate lesbian sex survey,
a survey of queer women and humans that is one of the largest of its kind.
We thought Carolyn might have some input that would delight us all –
Jenny: ​Hell yeah.
Kristin: ​On vampire sex and sex in general in the Buffyverse.


Jenny: ​Mmhmm.
Kristin: ​So let’s go to Carolyn.
Jenny: ​Yes.
[Interview intro tone plays]
Jenny: ​Carolyn, thank you so much for joining us. Can you use your vast
expertise to explain to us how you think vampires might bone?
Carolyn: ​Wow, you went with “bone,” huh?
Jenny: ​Is that – sorry, I don’t – [they all laugh] sorry, uh, how can
vampires have sex?
Carolyn: ​Well, I think it’s kind of interesting because without knowing how
blood and blood drinking and bodily fluids actually work in this world,
besides obviously vampires need to feed by drinking it, and I feel like Spike
just has the air of a dude who kind of goes around peeing on stuff.
Jenny: ​Mmmmm.
Kristin: ​[laughs] Right, yes.
Carolyn: ​Yeah so I think it’s kind of fair to guess that vamps in general
couldn’t have sex with their genitals if they were hungry –
Kristin: ​Ooh!
Carolyn: ​Because then there wouldn’t be enough blood to get there.
Jenny: ​Ohh!
Carolyn: ​[whispers] Yeah. Which is –
Kristin: ​So a vampire needs a good meal before a good boning.
Carolyn: ​Yeah, ‘cause you need to –


Jenny: ​So yeah, we’re saying that the blood that they drink is the blood that
then flows through their circulatory system and makes their, um… stuff…
[stutters] ready?
Kristin: ​[sarcastically] Jenny, are you also an expert at talking about sex?
You’re doing a great job. [laughs]
Jenny: ​Well, I didn’t want to say “penis” and I didn’t want to say “erect”
because I am ​five ​years old.
Kristin: ​I think you’re gonna have a hard time having this conversation if
we can’t say “penis” or “erect.”
Jenny: ​That’s true.
Carolyn: ​Well, but people with clitorises and vaginas still need blood to get
there to have a good time.
Jenny: ​Thank god you’re here.
Carolyn: ​Yeah, I mean, that’s why you have me on here. [They all laugh] I
think that usually – ‘cause usually in vampire lore, sex and feeding are really
tied together, right?
Kristin: ​Right.
Jenny: ​Yes, totally.
Carolyn: ​But here it’s interesting ‘cause they’re kind of separate? It always
looks like they’re breaking people’s necks and happening to just grab a bite.
Or it’s violent and quick. And... have we gotten to the death cult yet? Where
there’s the people in the velvet in the basement and it’s like –
Kristin and Jenny: ​Yes yes yes.
Kristin: ​What’s the name of the club?
Jenny: ​The Sunset Club.


Kristin: ​The Sunset Club.
Carolyn: ​The Sunset [laughs] – and I feel like, that’s kind of a thing where
maybe vampire feeding is eroticized. But it’s not the vampires doing the
eroticism, it’s weird 90s teenagers who are like [Kristin laughs] “Yeah, this is
a great way to solve all our problems.”
Kristin: ​I think you can take “weird” off of 90s teenagers. I think there’s
just [they all laugh] It’s just the general vibe of 90s teenagers, yeah.
Carolyn: ​Sure. But the pleasure from feeding is more like a killing pleasure
than even a normal, “Oh, I ate a food that I liked” pleasure, or let alone sex.
Kristin: ​Mmhmm.
Carolyn: ​And then also, in other mythology, vampires seem way more
hedonistic than here. Which is probably a little bit like, oh, a television show.
But also a little bit like vampires are after other stuff, like the end of the
world.
Kristin: ​Yeah.
Carolyn: ​Like even when Spike and Dru are super sexy with each other, it’s
like “Oh, this is a great way and look, then we’re going to have a party and
then everyone will die.”
Kristin: ​Right. [laughter]
Carolyn: ​And so sexual pleasure is just like – it’s kind of approached
differently? And so then it’s sort of like, okay, well then, how do vampires
actually experience pleasure or joy? And we know that Angel can’t have kids.
But does that mean that he can’t have penis-and-vagina sex? Or does that
mean that his sperm is also undead? Or like –
Jenny and Kristin: ​Right, right.
Carolyn: ​Or as a vampire, is it responsible to go around creating
half-undead babies? Or is that just like, oh, because you’re feeding and


creating additional things walking around that are like you by feeding,
instead of with your junk, then is it –
Jenny: ​Ahhhh.
Carolyn: ​Is that why he can’t have kids because he doesn’t want to –
Jenny: ​Someone had suggested to us that it might have to do with body
temperature. Because in order for sperm to be viable, it has to be at a
certain temperature. And since vampires are cool to the touch, they’re room
temperature, that may be no sperm created in a vampire body, if such a
thing were possible, would remain viable.
Carolyn: ​Yeah, that would make sense too.
Kristin: ​Wow. So many things.
Carolyn: ​Or maybe he’s just really into safer sex and made like, a
responsible decision that maybe as a 200-year-old, it would be not –
Jenny: ​Oh my god. He got a vamp-sectomy?
Kristin: ​Oh my god. A ​vamp​-sectomy. I’m so mad at you. [They all laugh]
Carolyn:​ There it is.
Kristin: ​Well and Carolyn, you brought up too in our preliminary
conversation around this that like, is safer sex a concern for Buffy and
Angel? Do they have to – like, can either of them transmit diseases to each
other?
Carolyn: ​Maybe it depends on how room-temperature or if a vampire were
to have sex with a human partner with an STI and then go really quickly,
before the disease – or before the infection had a chance to die or before
they took a shower –
Kristin: ​Ahhhh.


Carolyn: ​Then they could like go – like how it can travel on surfaces with
some of them?
Jenny: ​Mmmm.
Carolyn: ​But yeah, I don’t know how that would work. Or is vampirism itself
an STI in some –
Kristin and Jenny: ​Oooooh!
Carolyn: ​Because if you’re using feeding for reproduction and you’re
spreading vampirism, then like, how does it –
Kristin: ​Wow, wow.
Jenny: ​That’s deep, Carolyn!
Kristin: ​That’s great. That is great [laughs].
Jenny: ​Wow.
Kristin: ​Wow, so much to think about. We’ve already been thinking about
how this is all working.
Jenny: ​Yeah.
Kristin: ​And now we have 75 more layers of ways in which to think about
vampire sex.
Carolyn: ​Yeah.
Kristin: ​I want to talk about another thing, another point that you brought
up, Carolyn. ‘Cause you are smart and you know about sex [Carolyn
laughs]. Which is how you view the character of Buffy and the series and
how they treat Buffy and how her character and her character’s interest in
sex kind of separates her from some of the heroines that we’re used to
seeing? I would love to hear your thoughts on that.


Carolyn: ​Oh yeah, totally. So I think Buffy is interesting as a heroine
because I think often the way that women-identified heroines are depicted is
like, you know, other girls are ditzy and they care about looking pretty and
they care about their clothes and they care about boys or girls or sex or
whatever. And then the heroine is strong and stoic and smart and you know,
still pretty, obviously in a very normative way, but she’s brunette or
something. [Jenny and Kristin laugh] There’s like, an edge there. And so it’s
just like –
Kristin: ​Maybe she’s wearing glasses.
Carolyn: ​Maybe she’s wearing glasses, even if she also needs contacts, the
glasses are just an aesthetic choice, like they still – you know, whatever. But
then all the other girls are like, [high-pitched] “oh, haha, we’re distracted by
wanting to have sex and then oh, look, it’s the end of the world.”
Kristin: ​Mmhmm.
Carolyn: ​And I think Buffy is interesting because she does care about that
stuff, but also cares about the end of the world. Which is obviously such a
simplistic jump, like, “Oh, wouldn’t be cool if women characters were
nuanced?” But I don’t know, it is kind of cool.
Kristin: ​Yeah, I think it is. And you saying that reminded me too of
someplace where I have heard this explicitly laid out which is in Scream. We
all know how much I love Wes Craven, so always happy to bring him into the
conversation. But you know, there’s this classic scene in Scream, where
Randy goes through the rules of horror films. And one of the rules is “you
show your tits and then you die.” Which I think is rooted in this same thing,
right? That if a character in a horror movie has sex, then you know that that
– a female character, then you know that that female character is not gonna
live. Because again, just like you said, the stoic strong character, the
character who might make out a little bit, but button up her shirt a couple
extra buttons –
Jenny: ​Mmhmm.


Kristin: ​That’s the heroine that we see, especially in horror, in classic
horror. Obviously you’re right, it’s been subverted more times than just on
Buffy, but yeah.
Carolyn: ​But then even here, Buffy is still painted as super chaste, right?
Almost every single – ‘cause I just rewatched the episode like an hour ago.
And I noticed that almost every single shot in this episode, possibly in every
single one, she’s wearing at least some sort of white-colored clothing.
Jenny: ​Oh yeah.
Carolyn: ​Or like a beige – it’s super – in the dream about the Judge, there’s
that super virginal outfit, where it’s like, very, very evocative of “oh, look
how pure you are.”
Jenny: ​Mmhmm.
Kristin: ​Yeah.
Carolyn: ​And for no reason other than, oh, at the end of the episode, she’s
gonna bone. [Jenny and Kristin giggle] And I think too the sex kind of takes
place as close to within marriage as it realistically would in this 90s
television show about a 17-year-old in California. Because you know, she
makes the decision before this stuff happens, which is kind of cool. But then,
you know, he gives her a ring and they almost lose each other and almost
say “I love you,” except then vampires happen. And then they come
dramatically back together after almost dying. And then they say “I love
you” for real and ​then​ sex happens.
Kristin: ​Right.
Carolyn: ​And it’s like, maybe potentially transgressive that her decision is
like, oh my gosh, Angel just made out with me against a door, Willow, this is
great, I want that. [Jenny and Kristin laugh] And then the other stuff
happens. But it’s still – all that other stuff is still super present in a way
where it’s like, oh, are you kind of giving her permission to do this within the
realm of, quote, “needing permission” to have sex or to explore sexuality or
is it actually transgressive?


Kristin: ​Maybe a little bit of both. We noticed that too, we just watched the
episode as well. And there’s a scene at the end right before they do it that
she takes off her shirt, but then she pulls it up to her neck and I was like
“Buffy, seriously? You’ve like, literally –”
Jenny: ​She’s still wearing a tank top.
Kristin: ​And also, her general style of dress is low-cut tops and like
whatever. So it is very different in this scene, I think, with her covering
herself up and being like, “I don’t know if I can” or “I don’t know if I should”
or you know, those elements are there. Yeah.
Carolyn: ​Yeah, even though I’m damp from running through a sewer, I’m
still gonna cling this sewar-water-laced sweater to [Jenny and Kristin laugh].
Kristin: ​Right, right, right. Wow and so you know, obviously we’re in middle
of two important episodes here. We’re at the end of “Surprise” and we’re
before “Innocence.” And we see – you know, they have sex or so we are to
believe. I was actually disappointed by the little amount we got to see.
Jenny: ​Mmm.
Kristin: ​I know it was on television, but like, man, we didn’t even see a pair
of pants get tossed across the room. [Jenny and Carolyn laugh]
Carolyn: ​Oh my gosh, right? Even though they’re holding extra clothing,
none of the extra clothing ends up in…
Kristin: ​Right, right. But then we see this ending scene where Angel runs
out and collapses in the alley and he’s saying Buffy’s name. And if our
watchers are seeing this for the first time, they are not gonna know what
happens. But ​we​ know what’s going on and I know that we’re gonna want to
hear more from you later.
Jenny: ​Mmhmm.
Kristin: ​So I’m hoping that you’ll come back and visit us in a later episode
so we can talk about –


Carolyn: ​Oh, absolutely. [Jenny and Kristin laugh]
Jenny: ​Spectacular.
Kristin: ​Great, great, great. Carolyn, you are fantastic. This was so much
fun for us. And I’m sure that everybody’s going to be really psyched to dig a
little deeper into vampire sex.
Jenny: ​Yeah, thank you so much for joining us.
Carolyn: ​Oh my gosh, my pleasure.
[Interview outro tone plays]
Jenny: ​Well, that was great.
Kristin: ​That was amazing.
Jenny: ​Thank you so much, Carolyn Yates.
Kristin: ​Thank you so much. We are very excited to have you back on a
future episode to talk about sex more.
Jenny: ​Mmhmm. If any sex happens again on this show or has… meaning.
Kristin: ​Yeah, I mean, maybe that was the last of it. Maybe that was the
last of it. But you know, just to have a moment with this scene. We talked
about it a bunch with Carolyn, but this, umm… this is a big deal. As we
talked about, they don’t show us a lot.
Jenny: ​Mmhmm.
Kristin: ​We are to assume, perhaps, that this has happened.
Jenny:​ There’s kissing.
Kristin: ​There’s kissing.
Jenny: ​It fades to white.


Kristin: ​Yes.
Jenny: ​To ​white​.
Kristin: ​To white…
Jenny: ​Notably.
Kristin: ​Yes.
Jenny: ​And then we come back and they are sleeping in bed together.
Kristin: ​Right, naked. Presumably naked.
Jenny: ​[unsure] Ehhh…
Kristin: ​I mean Angel is ​pretty ​naked. This is funny actually. Angel is ​pretty
naked, he’s either –
Jenny: ​But he still has his necklace on…
Kristin: ​Yes, he does. He’s either just in his undies or…
Jenny: ​I think we see his undies.
Kristin: ​Do you? I looked for them but maybe I missed them?
Jenny: ​I think you see them.
Kristin: ​Okay, well, he’s pretty naked. But don’t worry, before he runs out
into the alley –
Jenny: ​Yeah, he wakes up in a panic and he’s like, gasping and he has to
run out into the rain, but first he puts on his pants​, ​socks, shoes, shirt,
sweater, and coat [Kristin laughs hard].
Kristin: ​Which is unbelievable. I can’t believe they didn’t take an
opportunity to have Angel run out in the rain –


Jenny: ​In his underpants.
Kristin: ​In just his underwear! Come on guys, everybody wants ​that ​scene.
Give us that.
Jenny: ​Hell yeah.
Kristin: ​Do you think they did that take and couldn’t air it and if so, how can
I get my hands on it?
Jenny: ​Ooh.
Kristin: ​I would like to see Angel in his skivvies in the rain.
Jenny: ​Yeah. We put this question to you, the listener. [They giggle]
Anybody got any hot deleted footage?
Kristin: ​Yeah.
Jenny: ​Cool.
Kristin: ​Um, but yeah. This is – we’re laughing and we’re making fun of
Angel putting all of his clothes on but in reality –
Jenny: ​But something is happening.
Kristin: ​Something is happening. Something horrible is happening. We don’t
know what. Well, ​we​ know what but some of ​you​ might not know what.
Jenny: ​Uh-huh.
Kristin: ​And in this journey, we don’t know what. And I said to Jenny, I
can’t imagine – ‘cause I didn’t watch this live. I didn’t watch this television
show live and I was like, could you imagine having to end this and then go a
week? And she looked it up. And when they aired this episode, when
“Surprise” aired, it aired on a Monday night. And on Tuesday night, they
aired “Innocence.” So you actually didn’t have to wait.


Jenny: ​Phew!
Kristin: ​But here in the land of Buffering the Vampire Slayer –
Jenny:​ ​You ​have to wait!
Kristin: ​You have to wait until next week. But oh my god, a lot of stuff
happened. We talked about as much as we could –
Jenny: ​Whew!
Kristin: ​We could have sat here for six hours. This is a big effing episode.
Jenny: ​Yeah, it’s heavy.
Kristin: ​Next episode is a big effing episode.
Jenny: ​Hell yeah.
Kristin: ​And we are… [unsure] excited?
Jenny:​ Uh, scared.
Kristin: ​Scared. We are –
Jenny: ​Trepidatious.
Kristin: ​Yes. But we’re excited to journey through it with you.
Jenny: ​Yes!
Kristin: ​And that’s a good point to remind you that we want to watch
“Surprise” together with you –
Jenny: ​Yes!
Kristin: ​Before we go to “Innocence” next week. So on Monday April 24th,
6:30 PM –


Jenny: ​Pacific time.
Kristin: ​Pacific time, join us. You just have to be a patron at the $1 level or
more. It’s a win-win. You support our work here, help us have more time to
take care of our Giga Pets and – [Jenny laughs] Hey, it’s an important thing!
This Giga Pet is sad all the – this Giga pet pooped, oh my god, it pooped!
Jenny, it pooped! Sorry, I just picked it up, it pooped!
Jenny: ​I can’t get involved.
Kristin: ​Okay. [laughs] Anyway, and also to make this podcast better and
better which we strive to do.
Jenny: ​Strive.
Kristin: ​And for that support, you also get to join us to watch “Surprise”
together which I think is going to be a delight.
Jenny: ​That’s going to be really fun.
Kristin: ​So yeah. Anything else? Did we miss anything? We said “the
patriarchy,” we did Sexual Tension, my Tamagotchi – I mean, my Giga Pet
pooped. [Jenny laughs] You guys, did you know that Tamagotchi is
re-releasing as of –
Jenny: ​They saw Kristin’s post that she had ordered a Giga Pet on eBay…
Kristin: ​Yeah, I ordered mine on eBay and they were like…
Jenny: ​And they were like, “We better fire up the [laughing] Tamagotchi
maker!”
Kristin: ​They were like “One girl in California ordered a Giga Pet off of eBay,
I think it means it’s time.”
Jenny: ​Yes!
Kristin: ​So now that Tamagotchis are being re-released, but you know what
the Tamagotchis don’t got that I got? This sweet KFC logo.


Jenny: ​Umm…
Kristin: ​On the side of their – I have a KFC – my Giga Pet has a KFC logo on
it, I don’t know why.
Jenny:​ It is a bummer.
Kristin: ​Maybe ‘cause – oh my god, maybe it’s ‘cause it eats chicken bones.
The cat eats chicken bones.
Jenny: ​Wow.
Kristin: ​Okay, anyway.
Jenny: ​Regardless.
Kristin: ​KFC donated all their chicken bones to the lives of Giga Pets?
Jenny: ​What?
Kristin: ​Okay, gotta go. This has not been an ad.
Jenny: ​[laughs] Well, with that, I think it’s safe to say, I am Jenny Owen
Youngs and it has been my pleasure to serve you this day and all the days.
When I’m not watching Buffy, I write songs and record them and you can
learn more about me and hear some of those songs at
jennyowenyoungs.com/buffering.
Kristin: ​Yeah.
Jenny: ​You can also give me a shout on Twitter @jennyowenyoungs.
Kristin: ​Yeah, has anybody ever just tweeted a shout at you?
Jenny: ​No. But ​now​ they will.
Kristin: ​Now they will. You can find me as well on Twitter @kristinnoeline.
[spells it out] When I am not podcasting about Buffy the Vampire Slayer, I


am working with LGBTQ young people as well as their families as well as
their educators and just allies in general. So you can check that all out on
my website, kristinnoeline.com or over at everyoneisgay.com or
mykidisgay.com. [singsong] Dot com!
Jenny: ​[laughing] Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on Facebook and Twitter
@bufferingcast and you can drop us an email at
bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin: ​As always, you can support us by going on over to
Patreon.com/bufferingcast. You can also support us by going over to our
store found on our website bufferingthevampireslayer.com. Just click on
Shop and you will find t-shirts, you will find enamel pins, you might even
find some new products very soon, who knows?!
Jenny: ​Eek!
Kristin: ​So you should check that out. And last but not least, go on over to
iTunes, say some nice words about us. We really love it when you do. It
makes us happy, makes the world happy.
Jenny: ​It helps other people find the podcast.
Kristin: ​Truth. Truth, truth. So those are some ways you can support us if
you so choose. You can also just keep on fighting the patriarchy out there.
Jenny: ​Mmhmm.
Kristin: ​That’s another way to support us and yourself.
Jenny: ​Hell yeah. [Kristin laughs] ‘Til next time…
Jenny and Kristin: ​Awoooooooooo!
[Jenny Owen Youngs performs “Surprise” off of the album “Songs from
Season Two” by Buffering the Vampire Slayer.]
I’ve been looking at you for a long time
And you’ve been circling me for a while


By the moon, on the shore, over low tide
A light in the dark through the miles
I know
The closer that you get the less I shake and
We both
Are getting right up to the edge of something
Ooh
You make everything fade
You make everything fall away
You make everything fade
You make everything, make everything
Ah-ah, ah-ah, ah-ah, ah-ah
Ah-ah, ah-ah, ah-ah, ah-ah
There’s so many words I want to tell you
And so many more I don’t have to say
Let’s stay just like this til tomorrow
Get lost in the waves for today
I know
The closer that you get the less I shake and
We both
Are getting right up to the edge of something
Ooh
You make everything fade
You make everything fall away
You make everything fade
You make everything, you make everything
Ah-ah, ah-ah, ah-ah, ah-ah
Ah-ah, ah-ah, ah-ah, ah-ah

