Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 3.10: Amends
[Jenny and Jess Abbott performing “Buffy It’s Cold Outside”]
Jenny/Buffy: ​I really can’t stay…
Jess/Faith: ​But Buffy, it’s cold outside.
Jenny: ​I’ve got to go slay…
Jess:​ But Buffy, it’s cold outside.
Jenny: ​This evening has been…
Jess: ​Was hopin’ you’d ask me in.
Jenny:​ …so very nice.
Jess: ​I’ve heard vamp hands are just like ice.
Jenny:​ My mother, she loves to worry…
Jess: ​B, c’mon, what’s your hurry?
Jenny: ​My watcher will be pacing the floor…
Jess: ​Listen to the fireplace roar!
Jenny: ​So really, I’d better scurry…
Jess:​ B, c’,mon, please don’t hurry!
Jenny: ​Well, maybe just a half a nog more?
Jess:​ I’ll put some leather on while you pour!
Jenny:​ The neighbors might think…


[song fades out]
Jenny: ​Wow, what a beautiful and festive holiday song!
Kristin: ​[sarcastic]​ ​Yeah, what was that, Jenny? We never start with a song,
and I just can’t imagine what that could be.
Jenny: ​Gee. Whiz. Well, we teamed back up, in honor of the slayer sexual
tension in this episode, we teamed up with our friend Jess Abbott, and
recorded a reimagining Buffy/Faith fanfic version of “Baby, It’s Cold
Outside.”
Kristin: ​Yes,​ ​if you follow us on social media, you are ​well​ aware of it. We
released the song yesterday. It is free for everyone to download. There’s
also a video that I made to go along–
Jenny:​ Oh my God.
Kristin: ​With the song. I can’t explain to you–
Jenny:​ It might be Kristin’s greatest work to date.
Kristin:​ It might be the marker of the best day of my life, when I made that
video, because I just got to pour through footage of Faith and Buffy and put
sexy lyrics over the top of it. It’s just… it’s just, you know what? It’s the
holidays, God dammit, and we all deserve some cheer.
Jenny:​ Yes. [both laugh] Truly, and we wanna thank Jess Abbott for being a
sport and dueting with me, and we also wanna thank Ben Thornewill, the
amazing Ben Thornewill, who really tickled the ivories in the way that only
he can.
Kristin: ​Tickled the ivories more than the ivories have ever been tickled
before, I believe.
Jenny:​ Truly.
Kristin: ​Yes, and you can find this song and the lyric video that goes along
with it, over at BufferingTheVampireSlayer.com/tistheseason.


Jenny: ​Whatever ​that m
​ eans.
Kristin: ​But don’t– just tis the season [both laugh] is the link. And we could
not be more overjoyed to share this with you all. So, have a blast. Faith and
Buffy sure did.
Jenny: ​Yeah, you wanna just pour a cup of nog, get nestled into your
leather pajamas, curl up by the fire surrounded by your stake collection…
Kristin: ​We sent Heather Hogan the song and the video before it went up,
and like, the responses that she sent to me as she watched the video are
some of my most precious moments of all time as well.
Jenny:​ She lost her goddamn mind.
Kristin: ​She was like, “I literally, like, took my sweatshirt off and drank an
entire glass of water.” So, we hope you enjoy. We’ll play the full song after
our song for “Amends” at the end of the podcast, but you’re gonna wanna
keep this one, so go on over, BufferingTheVampireSlayer.com/tistheseason.
Grab the song for free, and also check out the video.
Jenny:​ And if you just cannot get enough of Buffy and Faith and Faith and
Buffy, we are holding a Buffy Watch on December 9th for our patrons of
“Bad Girls.”
Kristin: ​It sounded like “for our patrons of Bad Girls,” like there’s a separate
Patreon account just for Buffy and Faith fanfiction accounts.
Jenny:​ So, that’ll be on Saturday December 9th at 2 PM Pacific, via our
secret Facebook group. If you are a patron already, you’ll be able to access
the details on our Patreon page, and if you’re not, become one, and join us
in darkness and light.
Kristin: ​[laughs] Yes, and also, a head’s up, if you’re a Patron, you’ve
received the worktape of “Buffy It’s Cold Outside.” Which, you know, the
song between Jess and Jenny, playing Buffy and Faith, is a winner. It’s a
holiday classic, one for the ages. But Jenny and I sang the song to send to


Jess to explain to her what we were doing, and made a voice memo, that
really came out–
Jenny: ​Over a karaoke track from YouTube.
Kristin: ​Yes, over a karaoke track from YouTube. It’s really special, and all
of our patrons have that worktape, where I sing the voice of Faith.
Jenny: ​Yes.
Kristin: ​My voice is just– it’s a beautiful voice.
Jenny: ​You do a great job!
Kristin: ​[laughs]​ ​It’s fun, it’s fun. Jenny and I lose our composure many
times during the recording.
Jenny:​ It’s great. The lyrics aren’t 100% finished.
Kristin: ​So, Patreon is a fun place, I’m just gonna say that. Now, we just
have a couple more announcements before we get into today’s episode. First
of all, we do lyric sheets every month. We are almost into the month of
December, so we have released the five lyric sheets for December. If you’re
new to this concept, Jenny and I will hand-write a lyric sheet for the
Buffering song of your choice. We sell them for $100 for each lyric sheet,
and we do five per month. That $500 then gets donated to a different
organization every month.
So this month, we are giving that $500 to New Alternatives. It’s an
organization in New York City that works to increase the self-sufficiency of
LGBTQ homeless youth by enabling them to transition out of the shelter
system to stable adult lives. They do many, many things, one of which is
they have meals on Sundays. Every Sunday, they have a shared meal with
the LGBTQ homeless community in New York City.
Especially around the holidays, this is extremely important. I mean, we want
to help our homeless LGBT youth all year round, but especially in the holiday
season. Making sure that they have each other and they have support and
they have love is so important. So, that $500 for those lyric sheets will go to


them this December, and you should check out their work because it’s very
important. And we thank all of you for your support of our work and of us
enabling other people to continue this great work that they do.
Now that we have a new store, you all know that a couple of weeks ago we
launched a new store, we’re working with Hello Merch. Our lyric sheets are
in a different place, because we do them here at our house. So if you just go
to BufferingTheVampireSlayer.com, you’ll see at the top bar, there’s a little
announcement bar, that’s the link to get to where to get those lyric sheets,
but you can also go to BufferingTheVampireSlayer.com/GreaterGood. So,
BufferingTheVampireSlayer.com/GreaterGood, and you can pick up one of
those lyric sheets. It’s a really good gift idea too, for the holiday season,
getting somebody their favorite Buffering song or snippet from a Buffering
song to give them for the holidays.
Jenny: ​Now speaking of our store, and whipping very quickly to the
opposite end of the emotional spectrum, we wanna let you know that we
have a brand new Kate Leth collab pin up in the store now.
Kristin:​ Yes we do!
Jenny: ​And it is a little green mug, and it says “Randy for Giles.”
Kristin:​ It says “Randy for Giles!”
Jenny: ​You’re welcome! You are welcome.
Kristin: ​Yes you are.
Jenny: ​You’ve been looking for a way to express to the world that you think
Giles is a very dashing, dapper, entweedened, heroic father figure-slash-love
interest.
Kristin:​ So, Daddy. [laughs]
Jenny: ​Yeah, I guess that’d be the shorthand. Giles is a daddy, you’re into
it, you need a pin? Please go to BufferingTheVampireSlayer.com and click on
“shop,” and we’ll take you to a magical portal where you can obtain as many
of these pins as you see fit. If you need to cover your entire wardrobe in


pins, if you need to just be a walking disco ball of Randy for Giles pins, you
can make that happen.
Kristin: ​Well, I think. I think there’s probably a hundred of them in stock, I
don’t know. But you can try. [laughs]
Jenny:​ Start small! Rome wasn’t built in a day, as I always say.
Kristin: ​Last, but certainly not least, one more announcement before we
head into the show. Our community over in that secret Patreon Facebook
group has been doing many things, wonderful things, one of which I’d like to
bring the larger community into. Headed up by Joelle, there is an effort to
transcribe all of our episodes of Buffering the Vampire Slayer to increase
their accessibility. So, Joelle and crew have been working together using
Google Docs and a system with percentages… there’s a whole system over
there that you can check out.
And it’s a crowdsourced effort, which means that if you just go to
BufferingTheVampireSlayer.com/transcribe, you’ll see all of the instructions
laid out there for you, and you can jump into any episode that you’d like,
and start to help with that transcription. And you don’t have to do the entire
episode. If you only have time to do 10%, you can transcribe 10% and then
you’ll see in the formatting guide, how to let somebody else know where you
stopped with the time marker, and then they can pick up where you’ve left
off and keep that going.
So, as a community, we’re gonna come together, and we’re gonna get all
the transcriptions done, and as they start to be completed, we’ll make a
special page on our website where you’ll be able to find the PDFs of all of
those transcriptions. So, thank you so much, Joelle, and thank you so much
to everyone over there who has just been doing incredible work to really
come together. I mean, we’re really Scoobying it up, aren’t we? Right?
Jenny: ​[laughs] That’s exactly what’s happening.
Kristin:​ This is what we’re doing! Everybody’s got their strengths, and we’re
all pulling them together to make this the best damn podcast that it could
possibly be.


Jenny: ​Hooray!
Kristin: ​Hooray.
Jenny:​ And now, without further ado, on to a very special holiday episode
for the episode “Amends,” guest starring our friend and yours, Gaby Dunn,
with a very special appearance from none other than Joanna Robinson.
Kristin: ​What a gaggle of ladies.
Jenny: ​Is gaggle really the word?
Kristin:​ What a…
Jenny: ​What’s the correct plural for a group that includes you, me, Gaby
Dunn, and Joanna Robinson? [Kristin laughs] An empowerment of ladies?
Kristin: ​Taking suggestions–​ ​an empowerment of ladies! There it is, Jenny.
Jenny: ​Let us know what your preferred pluralization of the four women
that I just listed is, and, um… here we go!
[THEME MUSIC]
Jenny: ​Hello and welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast where
we are watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer,
one at a time, in order. My name is Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin:​ And I am Kristin Russo, and this week we’re– [phone beeps] I got a
text message.
Gaby: ​From who?
Kristin:​ But don’t– nobody panic, it’s my friend Gretchen. It’s just my friend
Gretchen. This week we’re talking about Season 3, episode 10, “Amends.” I
also wanna mention that this is a spoiler-free podcast. We never say that up
at the top, but it’s spoiler-free. We don’t spoil things, so if you’re watching
for the first time, don’t be afraid. Also, stay tuned at the end of this podcast


every week for an original song written by us recapping the Buffy episode
that we’re discussing.
Jenny:​ “Amends” was written and directed by somebody named Joss
Whedon and it originally aired on December 15, 1998.
Kristin:​ [gasps] Two days before my 18th birthday! Who’s in the room with
us? Because I want to talk about my 18th birthday. And I don’t wanna keep–
Gaby: ​I was about to say, do you guys wanna know how old I was?
Kristin: ​Yeah. [Laughs] Who’s here? Who’s here, Jenny?
Jenny:​ Today, we have the distinct– [phone beeps]
Kristin: ​Oh my God.
Jenny:​ Turn your fucking ringer off.
Kristin:​ I did! I turned it off.
Gaby: ​I’m sorry! It’s me. I’m texting her. “Don’t you hate Jenny? Me too.”
[Kristin laughs]
Jenny: ​Our guest today is so both steeped in millennial culture and also
exuding, simultaneously, millennial culture that iPhone dings just occur when
she walks in a room. [Kristin laughs] It’s like a weird version of Eleven from
Stranger Things.​ Her name is Gaby Dunn.
Kristin:​ Gaby Dunn!
Jenny: ​She haunts our hearts.
Gaby: ​I can’t believe you guys invited me back.
Kristin:​ Like, by invitation!
Gaby: ​By invitation!


Kristin: ​Yeah, it’s really breaking the theme.
Jenny:​ Yeah, this is the first time you haven’t…
Gaby: ​For dinner… well, I’ve come here for dinner before, but, yeah. I’ve
been like, invited. You know like how a vampire can’t come into your house
unless you invite them? Y’all fucked up.
Jenny: ​Right, okay, so when we tape podcasts in public places, obviously–
Kristin: ​Oh, like you can access Nerdmelt willy-nilly.
Gaby: ​Like the high school!
Kristin: ​Yes.
Gaby: ​And then, nobody has to invite them into the high school, right?
Jenny: ​Ugh, no.
Kristin: ​Right. Well ’cause the high school has the plaque in front of it that
says, like, “All are welcome here” in Latin.
Jenny: ​But it’s also just a public space, it’s not like the Espresso Pump has a
sign that says “All are welcome here who seek espresso.”
Gaby: ​Right, he can go in to The Bronze.
Kristin: ​Right, right, right.
Gaby: ​So anyway, you guys didn’t do something right in your house. Or you
invited me in once and now it’s just sticks.
Kristin: ​And now you can enter whenever you’d like.
Jenny: ​We haven’t done a disinvitation spell.
Kristin: ​Anyway, I was gonna say, so December 15th, two days before my
18th birthday. On my 18th birthday, I went to Philadelphia to visit a friend of


mine. Children, cover your ears. I did mushrooms, and then I got my
eyebrow pierced.
Gaby: ​I just imagined a kid being like “Why is it bad to take mushrooms?”
Kristin:​ “Are mushrooms bad for me, Mom?”
Gaby: ​“Are mushrooms bad?!”
Kristin: ​I took mushrooms, I pierced my eyebrow and I dyed my hair red
and then I came home and my mom was like– well, my mom didn’t know
about the mushrooms part, but she was like, “Seriously, like did you have to
do ​everything​ out of the gate?”
Gaby:​ Guns a-blazin’!
Kristin:​ I was like… I smoked like three packs of Parliaments on my
birthday.
Jenny:​ Gross.
Gaby:​ I pierced my nose. Right as soon as I got to college. Almost
immediately. Like, checked in to my dorm, got my nose pierced.
Kristin:​ So, nose piercing, eyebrow piercing, and then belly button piercing
over here in the Jenny corner.
Gaby: ​Wow! What a basic bitch! [Kristin laughs]
Jenny: ​Yeah, that was an unfortunate moment in time.
Kristin:​ We’ve talked about it!
Jenny:​ But as I think we’ve discussed previously, I was in Florida at the
time so I’m not really 100% responsible for my actions–
Gaby: ​You get a pass, you get a pass.


Jenny:​ But I spent all my time before I turned 18 just piercing stuff myself
with file-sharpened–
Kristin:​ Yes. Very hardcore.
Gaby: ​Oh, you’re cool.
Kristin:​ You’re trying to, like, balance the scales of like, “Yeah, I might have
had a belly-button ring, ​but​…”
Gaby:​ I was in the fifth grade!
Kristin: ​What?
Gaby: ​In 1998.
Kristin:​ Oh, I was like, “When you pierced ​what​?” [laughs]
Gaby: ​Oh, no, no. Well, I had my ears pierced when I was a baby. My mom
says she regrets it ‘cause she was so sad to see them do it to me when I
was a baby. Anyway, she’s a very emotional soul. But yeah, I was in– so I
don’t think I was watching ​Buffy​ yet.
Kristin:​ Yeah, in fifth grade?
Gaby:​ No, I don’t think yet. I think it started up later, so I wasn’t watching
this when it aired.
Kristin:​ Right, that makes sense. Jenny was the only one watching it when
it aired.
Jenny:​ Just me.
Kristin: ​Just you! Anyway, I interrupted, did you finish your thing?
Jenny:​ Oh, who knows?
Gaby: ​Oh, tell us what happens in this–


Kristin: ​“December–” that’s me...
Jenny: ​Ohhhh, yeah. “This is the one where…”!
Kristin: ​This is the one where, as IMDb puts it, “As the Christmas holiday
approaches, Angel is tormented by evil apparitions who want him to
eliminate Buffy.”
Gaby:​ Oh, well I’m Jewish, so I have to go.
Kristin:​ It’s also why we invited you for this episode, we thought it would…
Gaby: ​It’s pretty rude, actually.
Kristin:​ We wanted Willow to have a representative.
Gaby:​ Willow points out multiple times that she is Jewish, and that she–
there’s a Hanukkah spirit.
Jenny:​ Is there a Hanukkah spirit? Is that–
Gaby: ​[sarcastic] Yeah, his name’s Hanukkah Harry.
Kristin: ​Yeah, I’ve heard of him.
Gaby:​ [sarcastic] He comes and drops off the presents.
Jenny: ​Oh, like an actual spirit?
Gaby:​ Everyone knows that… what? No, I mean we have a spirit on
Passover called Elijah, you leave a chair open for him.
Jenny: ​Wait, I’m sorry– I feel like we’re talking about two different kinds of
spirits, because like...
Gaby:​ What are ​you​ talking about?
Jenny:​ You’re talking about, straight-up like…


Gaby: ​Ghosts.
Jenny:​ God-ghosts. But I’m talking about, like…
Kristin:​ Like, when you’re filled with the Hanukkah spirit.
Jenny:​ When you’re filled with a warm, fuzzy feeling.
Gaby:​ Oh! there’s Hanukkah joy, for sure! Okay, you’ve got like, eight
candles on the last– you’re lighting candles, there’s gelt, which is chocolate,
and then there’s like dreidel games that you can play. Oh, and your mom
makes potato pancakes, so you have latkes…
Jenny: ​Great, great.
Gaby: ​And you have sour cream and applesauce. Oh yeah, there’s a lot of
spirit to Hanukkah.
Kristin:​ “​Oh, yeah​!” says Gaby Dunn.
Gaby: ​Hanukkah’s mad festive.
Kristin:​ [laughs] You made the good point. Before we started this episode,
we were, like, explaining to Gaby which one this one was before we watched
it all together, and you were like “Oh, so this is like the Ghost of Christmas
Past?”
Gaby:​ It is!
Kristin:​ And then the episode started and it was like, straight up a scene
from Scrooge, y’know, like–
Jenny: ​An actual ghost. Of a Christmas. Past.
Gaby: ​It was like, very– yeah, Victorian. But Dublin, not London, so…
Kristin:​ Right, right.
Gaby:​ Same costumes. They borrowed the wardrobe.


Jenny: ​Also, early comment from Gaby Dunn while we were viewing: we’re
looking at the busy street in Dublin and Gaby’s like, “This is truly An
Interview with a Vampire.”
[All laughing]
Gaby:​ Because in ​Interview With the Vampire t​ hey flash back to the
beginning of Tom Cruise and Brad Pitt.
Kristin: ​They love–​ ​I feel like Hollywood loves vampires in this era.
Gaby:​ Just in, like, in 1800s time.
Kristin:​ Yeah!
Gaby: ​Why?
​
Kristin:​ I don’t know, it must have been like, the height of vampiric activity.
Gaby:​ When was ​Dracula?
​
Jenny: ​[simultaneously] But also the sort of unbridled, sort of like, sexual
heat coupled with velvet, and ruffles…
Kristin:​ And high necks!
Jenny:​ Yeah! Ponytails…
Gaby: ​“​Unbridled sexual heat”​! [All laughing] Holy shit!
Kristin: ​Gaby heard nothing else that you said. Just “unbridled sexual heat.”
Gaby:​ Well, ​Dracula c
​ ame out in 1897. So around, so, like then, y’know?
Kristin:​ But I think you have a point, I think there’s something about, like,
opposing very buttoned-up people with, like, blood-sucking…


Gaby: ​Victorian times prudishness. And then the only way they can express
their lust, maybe, is being like, [coquettishly] “Oh, a vampire got to me”.
Jenny: ​Right.
Gaby:​ Sexy.
Kristin: ​“It was a ​vampire​! Oh ​no!​ ”
Gaby:​ And like, the fair maidens… y’know. Except this– a gentleman! A fair
gentleman was the victim.
Jenny: ​Yeah, and by fair do you mean like… “Oh no, that mustache”?
Kristin: ​Well, Angel’s mustache.
Jenny: ​Angel’s terrible mustache.
Kristin:​ I wrote about it twice in my notes.
Gaby: ​Why does Angel have an Irish accent?
Jenny: ​‘Cause he’s from Ireland– well, but you’re being generous–
Kristin:​ No, no, no– why ​doesn’t h
​ e–
Jenny:​ Oh, why doesn’t he ​now?
​
Gaby: ​Yeah, why doesn’t he have it now?
Kristin: ​It’s funny, ‘cause Spike–
Jenny: ​He’s been living stateside for so long, right?
Kristin: ​Yeah, but does Spike go back to the UK?
Gaby: ​Yeah, Spike has a British accent!
Jenny:​ No, but Spike’s accent is part of his vibe. It’s like part of his brand.


Kristin:​ Angel decided that having a–
Gaby: ​Angel was like, “My brand is moody teen.”
Kristin: ​[laughs] Yeah.
Jenny: ​Really.
Gaby: ​And I can’t do this thing–
Jenny: ​And we’ve never seen him be moodier or more of a teen.
Gaby: ​He’s like Madonna, he’s just reinventing himself ​all the time. ​Who’s
he gonna be?
Kristin:​ This is the most dramatic episode of television I’ve ever watched in
my entire life.
Gaby: ​And like, David Boreanaz is being ​so​ dramatic.
Kristin: ​Do you think it’s David Boreanaz or do you think it’s just Angel?
Like, I just feel like–
Gaby:​ Okay, for someone who’s been alive for like, thousands of years, he
is such a little bitchy teenage boy. Like, it’s crazy! Like, have you never
encountered, like– he– [groan of exasperation] this is my problem with him,
is that he should know better! He should just– every step of the way, he
should just know better.
Kristin:​ Yeah, but this episode– so, this episode is interesting. ’Cause it
really gives us a look into Angel that I don’t think we’ve really gotten before.
We know he’s brooding, we know he loves fire–
Gaby: ​But we’re like making this, like, “Oh, he’s just a brooding– like a
teenager whose parents split up and they’ve turned goth.” He’s, like, a
murderer.​ [Jenny and Kristin laugh] Do you know what I mean?


Jenny: ​Right, right, and he’s a murderer, and this is really the first time
we’ve sort of seen a window into both versions of Angel occupying his body,
or him sort of like copping to the monster version while ensouled. Right?
Kristin: ​Right, and struggling with, “Which one is the real me?”
Jenny:​ Right, right, and which one needs to be killed.
Kristin: ​Right, and he is really over the top with it all. But it is– there is
something, I think there is something there. We actually got a slew of
emails. I think we actually read a couple of them on, not the last Patreon
mailbag, but the one right before it. From people who do like, restorative
justice work in prisons who were discussing this, like, “Where do you draw
the line?” and like, “Is it better to punish, or is it better to educate and have
people–” you know, there’s a lot in it. We don’t need to like, get that deep.
But–
[Gaby sighs loudly]
Jenny: ​Gaby busted through the door this evening and said “I have no time
for redemption arcs!”
Gaby:​ [laughs] Did I?
Kristin: ​Gaby came through the door and was like “I have no time for men
today”, y’know?
Gaby:​ I did, to be fair– what’s today’s date?
Kristin: ​Today is… or today when we’re recording this, it is–
Jenny: ​November 9th.
Gaby: ​Is it okay to say that?
Kristin: ​Yeah, yeah.
Gaby:​ Okay, so it’s November 9th, right? [sarcastic] So I’m sure in the next
month, men will have completely cleaned up their act…


[Kristin and Jenny laugh]
Jenny:​ ​Totally​!
Gaby:​ We’ll all be like “What a ​dated​ podcast that was, men are​ so g
​ ood
now!”
Kristin: ​Yeah, we really try not to date the podcast too much, so…
Gaby:​ Yeah, okay, but as of, like, ​right now​–​ ​hoo, man, it’s rough goings for
y’all! And so, like, it’s weird to come in and record an episode where you’re
like, supposed to be like, “Y’know, gotta see both sides!” Like, later on in
this episode, Giles comes out with a crossbow and I just went “Yeah, kill
’im!” and Jenny, like, ​choked!​
Kristin: ​Oh my god I actually think I wrote down your quote when Giles
walked in–
Gaby: ​Yeah, straight up kill ’im!
Kristin:​ Let me see– yeah, so, Gaby, actually what you said, in the scene
where Angel shows up at Giles’ door, Gaby said “Just kill him and then
vacuum him up!” [All laughing]​ ​No one will ever know!​
Jenny: ​And say “I never saw the guy!”
Kristin:​ “Kill him and ​vacuum him up.”
Gaby:​ I did say, I never– [laughing] he ​turns to dust​! Just get out that
Swiffer! It would– do you understand, okay, how quickly he could have
solved everyone’s problems? Quick crossbow to the chest, vacuum it up with
a little dustbuster…
Jenny:​ Yeah, but he–
Gaby:​ And then be like “I never saw that guy! Wonder where he went?
Guess he ghosted you!”


Kristin: ​He ​literally​ ghosted you. But he’s conflicted, because he loves Buffy,
and he knows Buffy loves ​Angel​…
Gaby:​ Buffy’s an idiot!
Jenny:​ Hmm…
[Kristin and Jenny sigh]
Gaby: ​Okay, it’s fine, we’ll get to it.
Kristin: ​Before we get there–
Jenny: ​Can we talk about the most important development in this episode?
Kristin:​ Yes, Jenny–
Gaby: ​Tiny bangs?
​ !?
Jenny:​ That– that is a close second, and I want to discuss it also, but
number one is: Angel has finally gone to Pottery Barn and purchased a dark
wood bedroom suite. He has two nightstands, they match, and a bed with a
wooden headboard.
Kristin:​ I fuckin’ told you where he loves to– it’s his store!
Gaby:​ Pottery Barn?
Kristin:​ Pottery Barn!
Jenny: ​He’s all about it.
Kristin: ​Yes!
Gaby: ​How late are they open?
Jenny:​ I’m sorry, we just haven’t seen him in a bed, in vamp mansion,
tossing and turning…


Kristin: ​Oh my god, his– every– I wrote, I had like in brackets– so when I
take my notes, I do them like, by scene, but then when there’s little
cutaways I do them in brackets– and I have like, fourteen times in brackets
just “There’s Angel with no shirt in bed again!” Just Angel just sleeping–
also, do vampires sleep? I don’t understand!
Gaby: ​He doesn’t! They don’t!
Kristin: ​He’s not supposed to sleep, but yet he’s sleeping for so much of this
episode!
Gaby:​ He’s supposed to sleep during the day! Because otherwise what are
you doing, just like playing cards?
Kristin: ​Oh, during the ​day​...
Gaby: ​Solitaire? They didn’t have Twitter, so I don’t know what he was
doing!
Kristin:​ Yeah, so…
Gaby: ​What is he supposed to do during the day?
Kristin: ​Right, right! So, okay, so fine, so he goes to Pottery Barn, but I
agree– tiny bangs!
Jenny: ​Yo! Buffy spends this episode looking the most she will ever look like
Hayley Williams, ever!
Kristin: ​Ohhh, wow!
Jenny: ​She looks so much like a particular moment in time of Hayley
Williams.
Gaby: ​I just don’t understand– so she like, rolls up, tiny bangs–
Jenny:​ Oh, right right right, then they’re styled out–
Gaby: ​Then in certain scenes they’re styled out, then again, tiny bangs.


Jenny: ​Yeah they were really, they were testing ’em out.
Gaby: ​And then–
Jenny:​ Maybe they shot- maybe she got tiny bangs, they shot like two
scenes or whatever, and then–
Gaby: ​And then they decided no tiny bangs.
Jenny:​ And then they were like “Oh, let’s put some extensions back in-” I
don’t understand how extensions work, but–
Gaby: ​I was about to say, you think you can do​ extensions​ for ​bangs​?
Kristin: ​For ​bangs?​ I’m not so sure...
Jenny:​ Is that ​not how it works​? I thought that was the whole point of
extensions–
Kristin: ​No, you extend your hair–
Gaby: ​– but no, but it’s gotta go under. I’ve had extensions twice!
Kristin: ​Woooow!
Gaby: ​Ugh.
Kristin:​ But you have to attach an extension to existing hair.
Jenny: ​To the​ tiny bangs!​
Kristin: ​No– [pityingly] oh–
[Gaby laughing]
Jenny:​ You guys suck!
Gaby: ​I also said “Oh, that one street on the WB lot!”


Jenny​ Right!
Kristin: ​So Angel and Buffy run into each other on the street.
Jenny: ​Of course they would, because it’s the only street on the lot!
Gaby:​ Right!
Kristin: ​And they have this, like, awkward ex run-in, where everybody’s like
“Oh, funny to see you here, on the street!”
Jenny:​ She’s like, “I’m shopping for Christmas, are you shopping for
Christmas? Do ensouled vampires observe–”
Gaby: ​Remember ​shopping​?
Kristin: ​Who the fuck is Angel shopping for? Only Buffy.
Gaby: ​He just bought ​himself​ a nightstand.
[All laughing]
Kristin:​ He was all, “Merry Christmas to me.”
Gaby:​ “I just ordered some stuff at the Pier 1 Imports and they’re gonna
just drop it off later… I just told ‘em to drop it off…”
Kristin:​ I believe Pier 1 Imports is a little below Angel’s caliber of taste,
Gaby.
Gaby: ​Okay… he just goes to IKEA?
Kristin:​ [laughs] But my, like, nostalgia in this moment was like, remember
when you had to leave your home and walk around and go shopping?
Jenny: ​Mm, yes...


Gaby: ​Oh, my mom would just like, take me to the mall and be like “Let’s
get ‘em all! Let’s get all the gifts now at the mall.”
Kristin:​ You’d go and you’d have so many bags, and you’d like, see things
and be inspired by what you saw at the store, instead of like, going online
and ordering a million things.
Gaby: ​You would make, like, little soap things- I would get little fancy bags
and then get various soaps–
Kristin: ​Yes!
Gaby: ​And then put the little soaps in the bag.
Kristin:​ Remember like, uh, b- body- Bath and Body Works? Is that what
it’s called?
Gaby: ​Oh, it’s still around!
Kristin: ​Right, but like the- I feel like there was a time when you would just
get your friends–
Gaby:​ You would get your friends–
Kristin: ​The spray and the lotion–
Gaby:​ Oh, yeah!
Kristin: ​Jenny’s shaking her head “No, no, no,”
Jenny: ​Uhhhhhh..
Gaby:​ No? No Cucumber Melon?
Kristin:​ Ah, Cucumber Melon! A famous, famous scent!
Jenny:​ You guys…
Gaby:​ Classic Apple?


Kristin:​ Lavender...
Gaby:​ Periwinkle!
Kristin:​ ...Sparkly Lavender… scented…no?
Jenny:​ You guys, you guys….
Kristin:​ Jenny.
Jenny:​ ...I’m very gay.
[Kristin and Gaby laugh]
Jenny: ​There was no ​buying​ of ​scented lotions ​or ​receiving​ of ​scented
lotions...
Gaby: ​No buying or receiving of scented lotions!
Jenny: ​...in junior and high school. No, no, no. No, no, no, no.
Kristin: ​[laughs] No, you were just buying guitar picks and–
Jenny: ​Yeah, and like, like–
Kristin:​ Safety pins to pierce your own ears with?
Jenny: ​Well, probably I already had the safety pins lying around already,
thank you.
Gaby:​ Um, so then they’re at school…
Kristin​: Right, so we go to the credits, we come back, we’re at school. And
um, Xander’s wearing a reindeer sweater? I think? I wasn’t sure…
Gaby:​ It almost looked like “House Stark” like, the direwolf.
All: ​Oh! Whoa.


Gaby:​ Whoa, maybe they predicted it.
Kristin: ​Ooooh, We’ll have to go back and look at that sweater. And we
learn that Cordelia is spending her Christmas in Aspen.
Gaby:​ Good for her, she deserves it.
Kristin:​ Yeah, she does, she’s been through a lot.
Jenny: ​Do you think she can ski, after that impalement wound?
Kristin:​ Probably not. And you know, I do think that Cordelia is probably a
fucking bad-ass skier.
Gaby:​ She, like, took lessons when she was four.
Kristin:​ Oh, hell yeah, she grew up on the slopes. But I think this
Christmas, Cordelia is just going to be like, at the fire with some hot cocoa.
Gaby:​ And a hot dude.
Kristin:​ Yes, maybe a few.
Gaby:​ She’s earned it.
Kristin:​ Yeah, she has.
Jenny:​ Just skipping back for one brief moment, I just want to let
everybody know that “A Game of Thrones”, the first book in George R. R.
Martin’s “A Song of Ice and Fire” series, was published in August of 1996,
so…
Kristin:​ Ohhh!
Gaby:​ So ​is​ it a direwolf shirt?
Jenny:​ ​Maybe!


Gaby:​ ​Oh My God.
Kristin:​ Wow, so, Oz is like, totally reading–
Gaby:​ No, Xander!
Jenny:​ No, I know, but like, I just feel like the character–
Gaby:​ Oh, the character of Oz is reading the books, in our minds–
Kristin:​ Yes, Oz, and Willow are like, “Do you want to have sex? Mmm, do
you just want to just talk about ‘Game of Thrones’?”
Gaby:​ They’re definitely into it.
Jenny:​ Speaking of “Game of Thrones”, one of my very favorite topics, we
have a special contribution to today’s episode from the leading expert on
“Game of Thrones” – my friend, your friend, America’s friend, the world’s
friend – Joanna Robinson has decided to join us, because she could not let
this episode go by without talking about Angel and his accents.
Kristin:​ Yes, we are so excited, Joanna just could not contain herself, and
so we have a very special segment for you from Joanna, let’s hear it!
[The Joanna ‘Buffy Feelings Update’ jingle]
[jingle bells]
Jenny:​ Mmm, Joanna Robinson is here to talk to us about her feelings
on the Sunnydale populace.
Joanna:​ Hi there, Joanna here with your Buffy Feelings Update for the 1998
holiday episode, ‘Amends’.
This is usually where their friend Kate gives you the Buffy Fashion Update,
but since I have none of her expertise, I’m here to talk to you about wigs,
bangs, accents, and the performance that landed David Boreanaz his own
damn spinoff show!


[begin ‘Angel Irish Accent’] ​Sure and I contemplated doing this entire report
in my best worst Angel Irish accent ​[end ‘Angel Irish Accent’]–
–But I didn’t want to subject you to that, so instead I’ll just beg you all to
live in the thrill you felt as this episode faded from Angel’s truly terrible wig
full of so many vampire secrets, to Buffy’s absolutely insane Christmas
shopping bangs. Sarah Michelle Gellar sensibly sweeps these bangs to the
side for most of the rest of the episode, but they’re emblazoned forever on
our memories.
Speaking of memory, this episode delivers up the devastating return of
Jenny Calendar as the non-corporeal manifestation of The First Evil. Man,
that’s an awfully important-sounding name for a one-episode villain, isn’t it?
But the emotional highlight of this update belongs as it should to the
newly-reunited Pez Witch and Werewolf in Love, who, despite all that Barry
working for them, enjoy a perfectly innocent holiday snuggle.
Jenny has been sneakily and perhaps unconsciously preparing you for the
climax of this episode with her ‘Season Three Angel Self-Immolation-Watch’.
I hope she’s appreciating that the frosty weather in Sunnydale means that
Angel’s fire-building hobby finally makes sense.
And Kristin, I’m sure, is feeling a lot of emotions about Faith leaving her
motel room for some good old Summers family hospitality.
But above all else, this episode should be noted as the one where Joss
Whedon sat up and said, ‘That man, that David Boreanaz, he should have
his own show!’
So there’s the decidedly non-crappy gift in this episode for Jenny, for Kristin,
and certainly, for David Boreanaz. Which makes ‘Amends’ one of the more
important episodes of Season Three of Buffy the Vampire Slayer. If you hate
‘Amends’ I want you to ask yourself two questions,
[begin ‘Angel Irish Accent’] ​Number one, ‘Are you a thing worth saving?’
And number two, ‘are you a righteous fan?’​ [end ‘Angel Irish Accent’]


This has been your Feelings Update. I’m Joanna Robinson.
[Music cue]
Kristin:​ Jesus Christ, almighty,
Jenny:​ I know!
Kristin:​ [sarcastic] I just, I don’t understand why all of these horrible people
have to participate on our podcast.
Jenny:​ It’s dreadful.
Kristin:​ One after another, they’re just the worst! I can’t stand it! Joanna,
oh, you better watch it! You know, you better watch it, is all I’m gonna say.
Thank you for that amazing Feelings Watch.
Also, just a quick note before we go to the next scene, is that Oz’s t-shirt,
Oz is wearing a fucking “Ohmm” t-shirt–
Gaby:​ “Ohmm” t-shirt, I saw that–
Kristin:​ –which just gets to the heart of Oz, I think.
Jenny:​ “Ohmm” like “Namaste Ohmm”?
Gaby​:The symbol of ohmm, the symbol of namaste, yeah.
Kristin​: Yeah. And it’s very fitting for the scene that we’re about to go into,
too.
Gaby​: Because everyone is calm AF.
Kristin​: Yeah.
Gaby​: Why is everyone so calm?
Kristin​: Willow and Oz are really at a caliber of maturity that I did not,
myself, have in high school.


Gaby​: I cannot believe that Cordelia didn’t just suckerpunch Willow.
Kristin​: Yeah…
Gaby​: Everyone is just, like…
Kristin​: Right, even Cordelia.
Jenny​: Well, but Willow and Cordelia have a history. They’ve got their own
history.
Kristin​: Yeah. They have that whole broom closet, you know?
Jenny​: Yeah.
Kristin​: They’ve been canoodling. So, they get it.
Jenny​: And they’re best friends.
Kristin​: And they love to hate on men together, so they have a particular
kind of bond, you know.
Gaby​: Yeah. I’m just particularly shocked at how calm everyone is being.
Also is there any other place in the school that you could possibly hang out
that you wouldn’t see each other?
Kristin: ​Just that lounge. There’s just one lounge for six students.
Jenny: ​Every other room in the school is full of every other student in the
school.
Kristin: ​This scene, I just wanna give it like a moment of real- this scene
between Oz and Willow is very important and beautiful.
Jenny:​ So great.


Kristin​: It’s so great, and so Oz’s lines where he’s like, “And I miss you, I
feel like I lost, not an arm, but like my torso…” It’s just- and then, and then
Willow at the end being like, “Can we- is it okay if I hug you?”
Jenny: ​Mmhmm
Kristin:​ They’re both very respectful of consent in this scene, they’re both
very respectful of each other, it’s just like the way shit should happen.
Jenny:​ [sarcastic] Now this is weird because I was lead to believe that all
teenage boys, are driven by an urge to be ​disrespectful​Kristin: ​Yes.
Jenny: ​and like they have no control over their own ​actions
Kristin: ​Right.
Gaby: ​Mmmhmmm
Jenny: ​And like they can’t have their own ​thoughts?
​
Kristin: ​It’s funny… I don’t know. Maybe Oz, maybe Oz isn’t a teenage boy,
maybe that’s what we’ll find out.
Gaby: ​He’s a teenage werewolf.
Kristin: ​[laughing] Yeah he’s a teenageJenny: ​That’s true.
Kristin:​ Teenage werewolves have a lot more self-control.
Gaby: ​And he should be having ​the least ​self control because he’s a
goddamn werewolf!
[Kristin and Jenny laugh]
Kristin: ​Yeah exactly.


Gaby: ​I just wrote ‘No one deserves Oz.’
Kristin: ​Yeah. Yeah.
Jenny: ​ Accurate.
Kristin: ​He’s too good, he’s too good for this world. Uhh… yes, Jenny?
[Jenny breathes sharply]
Kristin:​ Jenny’s got a face on her face.
Jenny: ​Can I spring forward to the next scene?
Kristin: ​Please, spring us forward.
Jenny: So, Buffy and Joyce, uh, have swung by the Sunnydale Christmas
tree lotGaby: ​Sure.
Jenny: ​-And they take turns telling- they each take turns telling the other
that they should invite somebody over for Christmas Eve.
Kristin: ​Who? Who?!
Jenny: ​So, Joyce really wants Buffy to invite Faith over.
Kristin​: Joyce ​loves​ Faith.
Jenny:​ LOVES Faith!
Kristin: ​[Imitating Joyce] “Remember that girl who ate all of our dinners
that one time?”
Gaby: ​Yeah.


Jenny: ​Also Buffy’s like [nervously] “Agh… I don’t know, she wouldn’t, we’re
not really- I don’t know- ugh it’s awkward.” And thenGaby: ​And she’s like, “Don’t make her stay in that dingy motel room.” And I
was like, “Oh, this is a fanfic.”
[Kristin and Jenny laugh]
Gaby: ​I’ve written and read this.
Jenny: ​But also, let us just, yeah, hammer that home once again. Faith
motel watch: still shelling out $18 intervallically! Nobody can offer her a
fucking guest room?
Gaby: ​Yeah what’s going on there?
Kristin: ​I mean Joyce is- I think Joyce is right there. If Faith and Buffy
weren’t having “gal pal spats” left and fuckin’ right, I think probably that
would be- Faith would probably live there.
Jenny: ​Faith would probably live at Chez Summers.
Kristin: ​But, everybody’s working through their sexuality, there’s a lot going
on.
Gaby: ​I also think Faith is just like-- has martyred herself, likes living in the
hotel room to be like “Ugh my life is so hard.”
Kristin: ​YeahJenny: ​Well, [imitating Faith] she’s real ‘Spahtan’.
Kristin: ​Thank you Jenny, I was hoping… I was hoping that you would get
an opportunity to say that one more time.
Jenny: ​Thank you for your support! Then Buffy is like, “While we’re listing
people we should invite over for Christmas Eve-“


Kristin: ​Don’t you feel like- But here’s the thing, don’t you feel like it’s like a
“let me zing you with ​your​ secret lover”?
Jenny: ​Yeah totally! That’s what I was saying, totally!
Gaby: ​ Yeah, of course, right.
Jenny: ​They’re jabbing each other.
Gaby: ​Like, obviously.
Kristin:​ [as Joyce] “Why don’t I invite Faith, that girl that you’re just ​totally
friends with? Nothing going on there… ” And Buffy’s like, “Oh yeah, why
don’t you call Giles, ​Mom!​”
[Jenny laughs]
Gaby: ​You’re right, exactly. That was a fun littleJenny:​ Dude! And Joyce is like, “Wh- No.” and Buffy pushes her and she’s
like, “He doesn’t want to spend Christmas Eve with a bunch of girls.” You
know becauseGaby​: That makes no sense! ​WHAT?
Kristin: ​Yeah, yeah.
Jenny: ​[sarcastic] You know, Christmas Eve, the holiday where you like
drink beer, and like maybe shoot a deer or something? And then toss the
pigskin around…
Kristin: ​[laughs] That’s Thanksgiving.
Gaby:​ Like, who? Who is Giles ​supposed t​ o be spending--?
Jenny: ​He literally has no one.
Gaby: ​No one!


Kristin: ​His decorative stairs, that’s where he’s spending Christmas.
Gaby: ​And his like, girlfriend’s dead, likeJenny: ​Come on!
Gaby: ​Like, like Joyce should invite him, of anyone!
Kristin:​ Right? It would be the coziest Christmas. The coziest Christmas!
Gaby: ​Mom, Dad, me, my girlfriend…
[All laugh]
Kristin: ​So then, before we leave the Christmas tree lot, we get a uh,
Stranger Things​ moment- now don’t say anything to me. I don’t know how
much you’ve seen, but we’ve only seen four episodes so far.
Gaby: ​I haven’t seen any of season two. I’m a bad person.
Kristin: ​Okay.
Gaby: ​I’ve just been rewatching ​Curb. I​ ’m so sorry.
Kristin: ​No, it’s fine, but there’s aGaby: ​That’ll come up later in this episode, my rewatching of ​Curb​. It will!
‘Cause I have a tidbit.
Kristin: ​But yeah, this is like ‘the trees are dead, there must be something
evil’, but we don’t know that yet. Although, what is with the fucking
salesman and the Christmas tree lot?
Gaby: ​No, I thought that was creepy AF. I was like weird.
Kristin: ​[imitating salesman] “Do you- do you want one of these?” Imagine
Buffy was like, ”Yes, I want-”


Gaby: ​“-Oh I want ​ALL​ the dead trees! Pack ‘em up! Pack all the dead trees
into my car!”
Jenny: ​Kristin! After a lifetime of-of Christmas tree buying, you’re telling me
you’ve never been offered a cut rate on a tree that you would never…
Gaby: ​[Opens soda] Guys, I’ve never bought a Christmas tree. L’chaim!
Kristin:​ Listen, I buy- one of my favorite activities of the entire year is
buying a Christmas tree.
Jenny: ​Do you wanna come with us? Do you wanna get your first Christmas
tree with us this year?
Gaby: ​[Gasps] YES!
Kristin: ​Wow! A live invitation- an invitation on air.
Jenny: ​Wow, yeah, I can’t take it back.
Gaby: ​Yeah! I’m really trying to get adopted, so…
[All laugh]
Gaby: ​Yes, I would love to buy a- I’ve never bought one, how do you know
if one’s good?
Kristin: ​I mean y-you know if there’s no needles on it whatsoever, you
shouldn’t buy it, so…
Jenny: ​Yeah that’s your first signGaby: ​What are the needles?
Kristin: ​The-the pine needles.
Gaby: ​Oh the pricklies?
Kristin:​ Yeah, the little pricklies.


Gaby: ​Okay. I’ll learn. I’m open.
Kristin: ​You’ll learn. We’ll teach you. Anyhow, no, no one has ever offered
me a discount on a tree with literally no needles on it whatsoever.
Jenny: ​Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay.
Kristin: ​AnywayGaby: ​My mom- When I was growing up, and we were more Jewish, my
mom did say that the gentiles would make Christmas seem really fun to
getcha.
[Kristin laughs]
Gaby: ​And I think that maybe this is what’s happening.
Kristin: ​[In maniacal voice] It’s happening right now… [evil laugh]
Jenny: ​I don’t know what you’re- talking about.
Gaby:​ It’s part of being Jewish.
Kristin: ​I don’t mean to alarm anyone, but my next notes are in all caps. It
goes on for a while, I’m just gonna read them and see if we all know what
I’m talking about. My all caps notes are:
FAITH IS BACK
WHITE TANK WOO
SHE HAS PLANS
BIG PARTY
WHAT A LIAR
That’s not an erotic novel. I know it sounded like one, it’s not. But I just got
really-- like I am full of more excitement for the character of Faith than I
have been maybe ever in my life for any character. ‘Cause I feel like I’ve
realized my full potential as a queer woman and then have revisited this
character and it’s just come together in a particular kind of way for me.


Gaby: ​She’s looking good.
Kristin: ​She’s looking- she knows aboutGaby: ​She’s looking gooood.
Kristin:​ She knows what kind of tank top to wear.
Jenny: ​She’s great.
Gaby: ​Yeah, she’s got that arm tattoo that’s indicative of the era…
Kristin: ​Very.
Jenny: ​She is truly a terri- terrible liar.
Gaby: ​Terrible liar, and I think she did the most terrible lying on purpose!
And then also, when she was like, “I don’t care about Christmas” or
whatever she was saying, and then I was like, “But you got lights up, girl”.
Kristin: ​Right?
Gaby: ​And then Buffy’s like, “Nice lights.”
Kristin: ​‘Cause Buffy -Jenny: ​And then she’s like, “Well you know, ‘tis the season, whatever that
means.” It’s the season. It means, “it is the season”. Faith!
[Kristin laughs]
Gaby:​ You got ​so​ mad.
Kristin:​ Yeah, Jenny exclaimed out loud, “it means ‘it is the season’!” when
we were watching the episode.
Jenny:​ I mean, I know Faith is supposed to be like really blue collar,
Southey, but I can’t-- but she’s very-- she’s smarter than she wants


anybody to think. And I just believe that she, if she had searched her heart,
she would have known that it meant “it is the season”.
Gaby:​ Couldn’t Buffy have just called her?
Kristin:​ I don’t know.
Gaby:​ Do they not have phones at the motel?
Kristin:​ Is there a -- is there a phone in the motel?
Jenny:​ See if she had just called her then she wouldn’t have gotten to look
into her eyes, see to her smacking the TV around -Kristin: ​Yeaaaaah.
Gaby:​ That’s what I mean. That’s why I was like, “hmm, interesting”.
Jenny: ​-- Check whether or not she has Christmas lights up.
Gaby:​ Right.
Kristin: ​Faith. [imitating Faith’s Boston accent] “I’ve got that big pahty.”
That was for you Jenny.
[Jenny laughs]
Jenny: ​Thank you.
Kristin:​ So then, we go to Giles’. We talked about this.
Gaby: ​My favorite scene.
Kristin: ​Yeah, we talked about this for a moment.
Jenny: ​Well, first of all Giles looks ​amazing.​
Jenny:​ Suspenders ​down?
​ !


Kristin:​ Yeah. Giles is looking ​real good​ in this episode. ‘Cross-bow
suspender-down Giles’ is what I wrote.
Jenny:​ Yeah, I’ve got a case of the Kate Leths for this episode.
Kristin: ​Yeah, it’s good, it’s good. Everything is good. My initial notes were
“Angel! Giles! kiss! Just kidding… torture.” [All laughing] Because I felt like
they were so happy to see each other, but then I remembered.
Gaby: ​That would be such a like, you know, I mean I’m not saying it ​doesn’t
happen, but oh man, what a turn, you know?
Kristin: ​Like if thatGaby: ​Who’s your big Buffy male/male ship? Like, who’s the big ship?
Kristin: ​Out of all of them?
Gaby: ​Yeah, like who’s the ship of dudes together? It’s Spike and Angel,
right?
Kristin: ​I don’t know. Angel’s been so dramatic lately.
Gaby: ​Mmm, but like of all time?
Kristin: ​But I guess of all I guess of all of them-Jenny: ​But like when Angel-Gaby:​ Spike and Xander?
Jenny:​ Like when Angel is evil?
Kristin:​ No, Xander would never be involved in my ship I don’t think.
Gaby: ​[laughs]
Kristin: ​I don’t think that Xander would be permitted in that territory.


Jenny:​ No, no.
Gaby: ​Xander’s not allowed in the ship.
Kristin: ​I don’t know, I’ve been really into Giles and Angel, I’m not gonna
lie.
Gaby:​ Giles and Angel is a good ship.
Jenny:​ I mean, maybe the most age appropriate pairing Angel can hope for
on the show.
[all laugh]
Kristin: ​Yeah.
Gaby:​ Yeah.
Kristin: ​It’s true.
Gaby:​ Giles and Angel, I guess… Who else would we ship… ?
Kristin:​ For- Out of- at this point in the series? Yeah, I don’t know I think it
might be between those two pairings.
Gaby:​ Yeah, I guess it’s just Giles and Angel right now.
Jenny: ​Oh I have-Kristin: ​Versus Angel and Spike, I think that’s a good contender.
Gaby:​ Vers- Angel and Spike I think is a good contender, yeah. So much,
you know, brooding and drama.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Gaby:​ Anyway, my notes say, ‘kill him and then deny deny deny’.
[Kristin laughs]


Jenny:​ Ha!
Gaby:​ I also started screaming when they saw each other because it was so
uncomfortable.
Kristin:​ Yeah. Yeah, you really did. You really were, like, “oh my god what
is happening?”
Gaby:​ But also, like, okay… okay… are we just rooting to not, for Giles to
not immediately kill Angel because why… because he’s good looking?
Jenny & Kristin:​ [say together] No…
Jenny:​ Well okay no, that’s a strong point, he is very good looking, but
alsoGaby:​ Because we like Buffy?
Jenny:​ -he cares about Buffy. Buffy cares about him.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Gaby:​ Sure. Why?
Jenny:​ We at least don’t want him murdered in cold blood while he is in
possession of a soul.
Kristin:​ I think because of the conflict. I know you’re over it, Gaby. But I
feel like the conflict is ‘who is the real Angel and can we kill… can we kill the
guy with the soul?’ Like, is it the same person or is it not the same person?
That’s the big debate.
Gaby:​ Oh I completely- I grew up with an alcoholic father. I completely
understand. But I also think at some p… But like there’s parts later in this
episode where you’re like, ‘it is the same person.’
Kristin:​ Well, yeah… we kind- well yeah, I mean-


Gaby:​ It’s complicated.
Kristin:​ This is... it is complicated.
Gaby:​ It ​is​ complicated, which is you know what would make it much
simpler? If Giles just killed him.
Kristin:​ Right? [Laughing]
Jenny:​ Yeah! Yeah yeah yeah
Kristin:​ And cleaned him up with a dustbuster!
Jenny:​ And then the episode would be over…
Gaby:​ I just think, if he didn’t look like David Boreanaz we would have an
easier time being like “fuck that guy!” I think it’s because he’s handsome
and like a handsome white guy that everyone’s like “Noooo!”
Kristin:​ Yeah… It’s funny, I feel a lot less attachment to Buffy and Angel in
this viewing. Like, my first viewing I was like definitely in and I imagine
most people who watched this when they were younger… I mean that’s likeJenny:​ Right.
Gaby:​ You don’t know any better! Young people love Bella and Edward in
TwilightKristin:​ Right!
Jenny:​ [in disgust] gahhhhh
Gaby:​ -and it’s abusive.
Kristin:​ It... exactly, exactly! But I think a lot of, I think a lot of like media
related- like TV relationships, movie relationshipsGaby:​ OH. We’ll get there at the end of this episode, I have some stuff-


Kristin:​ [Laughing] Yeah!
Gaby:​ -to say
Kristin:​ Well before we, before we move along from this scene I wanna just
say, oh dear Jenny Calendar. Jenny Calendar is here! And Jenny Calendar
now, Robia LaMorte, is that this actresses’ name?
Jenny:​ mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Kristin:​ I really feel like she excels at- like you know she was fine as Jenny
Calendar but, boy oh boy, does she fucking nail it with creepy corpse Jenny
Calendar.
Jenny:​ Yeah…
Kristin:​ ‘Cause we, we’ve already seen corpse Jenny Calendar in previous
episodes. And I just feel like the evil is very palpable. I think I talked about
it last time that it reminds me of in ​American Gods​, what’s the- Shadow’s Jenny:​ Shadow’s wife.
Kristin:​ -Shadow’s dead wife that walks around, which I’ve, I’ve notJenny:​ Spoilers! … for ​American Gods.​
Kristin:​ I’ve never not seen this show but it my[Gaby gasps]
Kristin:​ -my image in the- like from reading the booksGaby:​ Oh, yeah yeah yeah.
Kristin:​ -was very much in line with Jenny Calendar.
Gaby:​ She looks great. Her outfit is greatKristin:​ Yeah


Gaby:​ -she looks like, uh, just like peak 90’s hotness.
Kristin:​ Yeah, that like, transparent, mesh shirt.
Gaby:​ Ohhh, I owned that! With butterflies and stuff, oh yeah.
Kristin:​ Hell yeah.
Gaby:​ And then like the blue eyeshadow, all of it is lovely.
Kristin:​ [Laughing] Gaby, can you dig up some 90’s photos of yourself for
us for this episode?Gaby:​ Ohhh god! They’re all ​really​ bad.
Kristin:​ -Can we post those on our social media later?
Gaby:​ I had something like what she was wearing but it was blue and it had
butterflies on it and I was like, ‘this is the best thing I own. I will wear this
every weekend to synagogue.’
Jenny and Kristin:​ [Laughing]
Kristin:​ So my next scene note is “​Titanic​”. We go to the, well what we callGaby:​ I wrote​ “​ ​Titanic​ times.”
Kristin:​ Yeah, the Titanic, um, I wanna plead that we can’t do this episode
without giving a shout out to the line that Angel has [laughing] which is, to
this girl who I guess is like one of maids.
Gaby:​ A maid, ​Downton Abbey-​ styleKristin:​ Right, his claim of why she can stay there is, “They will not notice
the absence of a canapé.”
Jenny:​ [Laughing] Wait, so what is a canapé?


Kristin:​ Like, an hors d’oeuvre, I think, like a snack.
Gaby:​ Oh my god!
Kristin:​ They will not notice the absence of a canapé, like I think, she’s
meant to like be bringing out the you know, the snacks, the food or
whateverJenny:​ But is he calling her a canapé? But she doesn’t realize.
Gaby:​ Right. It’s a double entendre.
Kristin:​ Ohhhh.
Jenny:​ Okay...
Kristin:​ It’s a ​Titanic​-styleGaby and Kristin:​ [say together] -double entendre.
Gaby:​ You know the way he treats that girl, you know, once again, kill him!
Kristin:​ Yeah… I mean I wrote down “sexual assault Angel”Gaby:​ Yeah!
Kristin:​ -”No one will believe you. No one will believe you.”Gaby:​ Yeah!
Kristin:​ -you know. And then I haveGaby:​ Oh, “Do you want to cause a scene?”… blah blah blah I meanKristin:​ Yeah, this is fucked up shit.
Gaby:​ It’s fucked up, it’s relevant for right now, kill him. I vote kill him.


Kristin:​ Right, and I want to just say one more time he still has that fucking
mustache. You know what I mean.
Jenny:​ It’s REAL bad.
Kristin:​ If we’re gonna kill him for anything, it could be that mustache.
Jenny:​ Also, are we… I feel like we always hear lion snarls and roars when
vampires are in vamp face, but for some reason it like really felt very
sticky-outy in this scene to me. And I’m just wondering, posing a question to
the group... How comfortable are we with a lion sound effect being applied
to a vampire?
Gaby:​ [Laughing]
Kristin:​ Hmmm…
Jenny:​ Is everybody good with that?
Kristin:​ I see what you’re saying. I see where you’re going with this. Yeah.
Well it’s, I think they were like how can we make it clear that this is an
animal.
Jenny:​ A beastKristin:​ A beast.
Jenny:​ -a monster.
Kristin:​ And they were like, they went with the snarl. Yeah.
Jenny:​ Yeah… it’s just likeGaby:​ What was cheapest?
Jenny:​ -physically... yeahGaby:​ You know?!


Jenny:​ -yeah.
Kristin:​ They were like, right next to the werewolf costume, was like a
sound effect maker for a lion roar.
Gaby:​ Yeah!
Jenny:​ Oh Party City…
Kristin: ​Before we- before we go to what I like to call ​Inception,​ I just want
to take a moment to play the patriarchy jingle for this scene. This is about
as patriarchal as one can get.
Gaby:​ It was really awful.
[Patriarchy jingle plays]
Kristin:​ Thank you very much for playing that jingle. It really has a place
many times in this episode. I’m gonna say that.
Jenny:​ Yeah…
Kristin:​ There’s a lot ofGaby:​ Just the wording he was using was soJenny:​ [disgusted] UGH.
Kristin:​ Yeah. Really on the nose and I mean intentionalGaby:​ Blech.
Kristin:​ -I’m sure. It’s just, it’s very complicated ‘cause I feel like, again,
they’re setting up this scenario where they’re attributing these behaviors to
the monster side.
Jenny:​ Mmhmm, mmhmm.


Kristin:​ -and the redeemable qualities on another side, and it’s not that
clear. And I mean the show doesn’t make it that clearGaby:​ Yeah, yeah.
Kristin:​ -to the show’s credit, but it’s sticky for us to unpack.
Gaby:​ Wellllll, the show, I think is saying you should like himKristin:​ YES. The show is ​for sure​ saying that.
Gaby:​ And that I got more problems with that later on.
Jenny and Kristin:​ [say together] uhh, yeah.
Gaby:​ And then Buffy enters the dream.
Kristin:​ Yes, ​Inception!​
Jenny:​ And so, this looks so- I think this looks so great. I think this was- I
think they nailed it. I thinkGaby:​ It looked great.
Jenny:​ -the eye contact, the way that she sort of like- obviously, her style
of dress is very different from her surroundings, but also the way that she’s
just sort of, like, glowing. Like lit to sorta, like, look kind of incandescent.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ And, like, otherworldly.
Kristin:​ Totally. And then we go back to the mansion. My first note is,
“creepy Jenny Calendar for the win.” I still am really [laughs] into creepy
Jenny Calendar.
Jenny:​ [Laughs]


Kristin:​ And then I also have, “Michael Jackson morphing”. I just, whenever
I see this style of thing I always think of the “Black and White”Gaby:​ [Laughs] Yeah.
Jenny:​ Oh yeah, yeah, yeah. Mmhmm.
Kristin:​ -”Black or White” video. Where, you know, Angel is sort of facing all
of these people that he’s fucked overJenny:​ mm-hmm
Kristin:​ -as Angelus or what have you. And one after another they’re sort of
saying, ‘you’re a horrible person. And you should fuckin, you know what you
should do. You should do something fucked up again and lose your soul.’
Gaby:​ Right.
Kristin:​ This is the firstGaby:​ We don’t know what yet.
Kristin:​ Right, yeah, okay. We’ll wait until we find out. Right now we just
see morphing.
Gaby:​ Oh, then this is my favorite lineKristin:​ [Laughs] Yes!
Gaby:​ She’s trying to convince, Buffy is trying to convince Giles that they
were, they saw each other in the dream. And she was like, “I saw things that
I couldn’t possibly have known about”. And I was like, “Yeah, bitch, that’s
what a dream is!”
Kristin:​ [Laughs]
Gaby:​ Like are you fucking kidding me.
Jenny:​ Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.


Kristin:​ Buffy has a lot of faith in her dreams.
Jenny:​ Well she has propheticGaby:​ [Laughs]
Kristin:​ GUYS. I didn’t mean to do that.
Jenny:​ Ohhhhh WOW.
Gaby:​ Ohhhhh!
Jenny:​ Nice. Okay.
Gaby:​ Could stand a little ​more​ Faith in her dreams! Am I right, ladies?
Kristin:​ [laughs]
Jenny:​ You are right. Soooo, Buffy has a history of prophetic dreams,
there’s a whole slayer thing. It’s a slayer legacyKristin:​ Yeah, yeah sure.
Gaby:​ Fine, then say that. Don’t be like, “I saw stuff that I couldn’t have
known about.” Which is literally the definition of a dream.
Jenny:​ Look, we all say things… in times of duress…
Kristin:​ Mmhmm.
Gaby:​ Also why was Xander just creeping in the hallway? Why was her just
there?
Kristin:​ Xander’s trying to also be redeemed a bit in this scene.
Jenny:​ Oh right, amends.
Gaby:​ Sure.


Kristin:​ He’s feels bad for some- I think because of the holiday spirit is what
we’re led to believe.
Jenny:​ Yeah everybody seems [laughs] that’s gonna come back later.
Kristin:​ I have a question that is unrelated to Xander, but is related to the
holiday spirit. Did Giles decorate his office at the library?
Gaby:​ [laughs]
Kristin:​ Because there’s some tinsel, there’s some fuckin’ likeJenny:​ Do you think those are Giles’ choice or like he came in one morning
after the school had been decorated?
Gaby:​ And then he was like, “I guess.”
Kristin:​ ​You think?!​ You think they went ​into​ the library, ​into​ Giles office
and hung tinsel?
Gaby:​ No, he did. He must have done it.
Kristin:​ I think he did it. I’m pretty sure he did it.
Jenny:​ ​Awwww.
Kristin:​ I’m pretty sure he has a little dusty box underneath the fuckin’
filing cabinet that says like, “Christmas.”
Gaby:​ That he’s been using for, like, years.
Kristin:​ ​Hell yeah!
Jenny:​ He’s just trying to make it festive for the three students that ever
spend any time in the library. ​Great!
Gaby:​ Maybe he’s making it festive for himself.


Kristin:​ Aww, for himself! Right.
Gaby:​ Why is Willow at school?
Kristin:​ Well, is why. Right. Why is everybody at school?
Gaby:​ Why? Literally, Xander must have been ​standing​ in the doorway,
listening​ to their conversation, waiting for an opening.
Kristin:​ Yeah…
Gaby:​ Do you understand how weird that is?! [Laughs]
Kristin:​ Yeah… that’s pretty Xander. But I like, okay here is what I like
about this. Cause then they all get together, the scoobies are there and
we’re all like “Why are they at school? It’s fuckin’ Christmas.”
But I do feel like, I don’t know- I remember when Christmas break would
happen in school that like there was so much- you had so much time. You
know? Like you didn’t have anything to really ​do.​
So I think it’s very believable. I was always like- I did theater so I was in
musicals. And we would have like winter break rehearsals. And they were
like some of the best times of my life. And we would come in our pajamasGaby:​ Oh, to schoolKristin:​ And just be together in a way that like you couldn’t really be
together after school. So I felt like there was a little bit of that here. Where
it was like, ‘there’s no school but we’re all together and it’s like’Jenny:​ Yeah and like Oz isn’t around, and Xander and Cordelia aren’t
together anymore. And Angel is having, like, an existential crisis. And it’s
just the core group, back together again. Workin’ on a problem, readin’
books until they fall asleep all over the library.
Kristin:​ [Laughs] Well before that though, I do wanna just say that Buffy
does, because of winter break, Buffy has enough time to give Willow one
piece of advice.


[Jenny and Gaby laugh]
Jenny:​ She has enough time to think about ​ONE ​thing about somebody
else.
Kristin:​ Yeah. Yeah.
Gaby:​ I was like, “Oh my god, they’re friends.”
Kristin:​ Right. She actually listened to Willow talk about Oz and Xander and
explained, “Xander will have a piece of you that Oz can’t so you have to put
Oz first.” And Willow’s response was like total shock.
[Jenny laughs]
Gaby:​ Yeahhh.
Kristin:​ She was like: “OH, thank you ​so much.​”
Jenny:​ This is the first time- in an unprecedented move.
[Gaby and Kristin laugh]
Kristin:​ Anyways. Sorry, Jenny. Everyone falls asleep, you’re right
Gaby:​ Well, before that, evil Jenny Calendar is like, “You took more pleasure
in it than to ​just to feed​” to Angel, talking about killing. Also there is a
random dad character whose- apparently Angel killed his children?
Kristin:​ YES. And ​arranged them​ so that the dad wouldn’t know they were
dead until he had to go over and check on them.
Gaby:​ Right. Like, and then he was like “well as as a man, I was okay…” and
then she’s like “​No,​ you were like a whoring roundabout, bad, gat about
town, dude.”
Kristin:​ YES. Drunken, whoring-


Gaby:​ And you were gonna die of syphilis. Do any diseases you have come
with you when you become a vampire? Or are you just cured?
Kristin:​ I don’t think so.
Jenny:​ No… it burns the disease away.
Gaby:​ COOL. So anyway… so thenJenny:​ But I think she was just saying like, ‘you ​would have​ died of, not you
had​ syphilis. And then were saved from’Gaby:​ Right
Kristin:​ Right, right, right, right.
Gaby:​ But you would have died of it, because people died of it back in the
day. So, seriously ​fuck this guy!​ Like ​WHY do we like him​?! Is it because he’s
handsome?
Kristin:​ I think handsome has a lot to do with it.
Gaby:​ Like I honestly, if he was not handsome would we even be hesitating?
Kristin:​ I think that he, I mean it’s- that’s a hard question to answer.
Because like, me right now watching this series, probably I wouldn’t be
hesitating. Being like “eh fuck this guy.”
Gaby:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ But I think that I also had decades of like being raised on wanting
to believe the best in people.
Gaby:​ Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin:​ Right? Angel really- Angel really plays to that. Angel is always like,
“I’m trying my hardest, I’m working my hardest, I’m trying to redeem
myself, I’m trying to-” I mean his whole existence is to try to undo all the
bad he’s done.


Gaby:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ So I do feel like it’s hard to just say likeGaby:​ I know… I know… I know…
Kristin:​ It’s hard, it’s hard, I know. I don’t know.
Gaby:​ [sighs] Anyways, then they start fucking in a dream. You yelled,
“They found a way to fuck.”
Kristin:​ [laughs] They did. I yelled it and wrote it.
[Jenny laughs]
Kristin:​ They figured it out! This is glossed over and I like feel this is
monumental. I know that it ends badly but like, you guys hang onto this
fuckin’ dream shit and you’re good! You can fuck all day long in your
inception dreams you weirdos! You know? [laughs] It’s great!
Jenny:​ Yeah, this is some keystone problem solving shit but nobody has
time for it.
Kristin:​ No, nobody has time for it and they’re reallyJenny:​ Cause after a quick dream fuckKristin:​ Yeah, thank- thankfullyJenny:​ And totally inappropriate lolling about on the library carpet.
Kristin:​ [laughs] ​lolling?!
Gaby:​ Yeah, that ends in murderJenny:​ In broad daylightKristin:​ Yeah.


Jenny:​ And in the companyGaby:​ But here’s the question. If Angel cums from a wet dream, does he
lose his soul again?
Kristin:​ No, because I think it has to be 100% real. I think that’s the
loophole here is that it’s like great, but he- ‘cause, I think Angel can likeGaby:​ ​HOLD ON.​ ​ S
​ o they could dateKristin:​ Yup.
Gaby:​ And just do mutual masturbation for the rest of their lives and it
would be fine.
Kristin:​ Yes. Yes, 100%.
Jenny:​ No… No, no, no, no.
Kristin:​ You don’t think so?
Jenny:​ Because there’s something about them being actually together.
Kristin:​ Oh physically in the same space?
Jenny:​ Not just physically, but like “we’re dating.” There's a comfort, and a
warmth.
Gaby:​ ​Oh​ a happiness that he can’t feel.
Jenny:​ Exactly.
Gaby:​ About them being together anyway.
Jenny:​ Like, yeah. It all adds up.
Gaby:​ Got it. Got it.


Kristin:​ I see. I like that. Jenny is approaching this as though she has done
her dissertation on it. She’s like ,“No no no you guys, here’s how it works.”
Gaby:​ No, I’m happy to have an alternativeKristin:​ I was in with you, they can do everything ​but-​ so… they’ll be fine!
There’s plenty of things to do.
Gaby:​ Absolutely.
Kristin:​ Anyway… when Buffy wakes up Giles is like “what did you dream
about, tell me specifically” and she’s like- [gulp]
Jenny:​ With detail.
Kristin:​ She was like ‘I mean it was just a-Jenny:​ “No need to get sidetracked... give me book to research within.”
[Kristin laughs]
Kristin:​ Also, what we didn’t say about the dream is that the dream ends
with AngelGaby:​ Killing herKristin:​ Killing her.
Jenny:​ ​HOT!
[All laugh]
Kristin:​ [laughs] Yeah… I… You said you had a bummer thing to say next.
What is that? What was your bummer thing?
Gaby:​ No, my bummer thing was you and I having this discussion over
whether the evil thing was trying to- to like, so evil Jenny Calendar’s likeKristin:​ “​TAKE HER”-


Gaby:​ “Take her”...“you want her, take her, and then once you have her
you can be ready to kill her.”
Jenny:​ Like it kinda sounds like maybe ​Jenny Calendar​ wants her?!
Kristin:​ Yeah obviously. [laughs]
Gaby:​ So, in my mind, I was like, “Oh, she wants him to give into his base
urges. She wants him to rape her, and then once he’s lost his soul from
doing that, kill her.”
Kristin:​ Right.
Gaby:​ Because he’ll be able to kill her, ‘cause he doesn’t have a soul. And
you were like, “noooo.” But then it slowly became like, ​yeah​ that ​is​ what is
supposed to happen.
Kristin:​ ​Yeah​. At first I disagreed- at first, I was like, “No, I think that The
First just wants to make him crazy so that he will kill her.
Gaby:​ So he does kill her.
Kristin:​ But then at the end it’s very explicitlyGaby:​ Yeah, there was like a rapey aspect to it.
Kristin:​ Yeah, there’s some serious rapey shit in this episode.
Gaby:​ ‘Cause they were like- The First is like, “Oh, well that’s great. You can
just like have what you want, and then once that happens…” like trying to- I
mean in the same way that Angel took pleasure in the making it more
agonizing, I think The First is like “what’s the ​worst​ thing you can have
happen?”
Kristin:​ Yeah. Yeah, and that’s kind of, like– I feel– and maybe I missed
something. But I feel like it was never made 100% clear what the First…
like, is The First just after Buffy dying, ultimately? And The First wants to
take the most torturous path to that?


Gaby:​ Yeah, just evil. Just wants to cause pain.
Kristin:​ Just everything bad. Okay, alright.
Jenny:​ Mmhmm. Wreak some havoc.
Gaby:​ My next note is funny. So go on.
Kristin:​ No, no, no. That was my one question. So yeah, what’s your next
note? Do we go to Willy’s or do you have a note before Willy’s?
Gaby:​ It’s at Willy’s. It’s just, based on my viewing of ​Curb Your
Enthusiasm,​ that’s been happening lately. So I was like, why does Willy look
so familiar? Guys, he’s Mocha Joe on ​Curb.​ [giggles]
Kristin:​ I don’t watch ​Curb–
​
Gaby:​ No one watches ​Curb.​ Five people–
Kristin:​ No, people watch that show. No?
Gaby:​ They watch it but it’s like, from so long ago. Like, I’m rewatching all
of it. I think like one person will be like, “Oh, Mocha Joe!” [Kristin laughs]
But yeah, he’s some actor who’s been in a lot of stuff and I was like, I just
saw that guy. And he’s, like, in one episode of ​Curb.
Kristin:​ He’s great, I don’t know how he is in ​Curb Your Enthusiasm,​ but–
Gaby:​ Great actor. Super funny character actor.
Kristin:​ Yeah. I mean, Willy is such an incredible character. And I feel like,
at this point, Willy gets a little notch of depth in this episode that he hasn’t
really gotten yet.
Jenny:​ Oh, yeah.
Kristin:​ First of all, he’s decorated his bar.


Gaby:​ Aww!
Kristin:​ There’s red and green stirrers together in the bar thing.
Jenny:​ Nice, nice.
Kristin:​ And then he has this– he has a couple moments at the end of this
scene, where Xander puffs his chest like a dingbat and is like, “How about I
ring that bell for ya?” But is also very aware, and is like, [under breath]
“Was that what I was supposed to do?”
And Willy notices that Xander needs some affirmation, and gives that to
Xander, which I just think is really sweet. He’s like, “Hey, man. You did a
good job. Like, you totally–”
Jenny:​ “I was really intimidated.”
Kristin: ​Yeah. “You’re on the road to totally intimidating people.” And then
he says to Buffy, “Hey kid. Merry Christmas.” And it’s just… it’s a nice little
moment, you know?
Also, we don’t have Kate Leth, as you probably know ‘cause we would have
already brought her in for Jenny Calendar’s mesh shirt. But Buffy is wearing
classic button-down baby blue in this scene.
Jenny:​ Oh, yeah.
Kristin:​ And I like to–
Jenny: ​I actually– when there was sort of a chest-up shot of her and I was
like, oh my god, is that the… the slow-mo trench coat?
Kristin: ​Ah, yes.
Jenny: ​It was not.
Kristin:​ It’s not. She has a lot of baby blue in her closet.


Jenny:​ But the cut of the collar and stuff for some reason– but also, that
reminds me of another instant-classic Gaby Dunn quote from the viewing of
this episode, which was–
Gaby:​ I don’t even know it is.
Jenny:​ “Why does she have so many trench coats? [Kristin starts laughing]
Why does she dress that way? She is a girl in high school.”
Kristin:​ This is when she’s in her white full-length trench.
Gaby:​ Yeah, I wrote down, “Why is she dressed like that? She’s a teenage
girl.” [laughs]
Kristin:​ [laughs] She’s in like all black, with an ankle-length white trench.
Why?!
Gaby: ​She just looks like a J. Crew or Ann Taylor mannequin!
Jenny: ​No, like– Ann Taylor! Ann fucking Taylor!
Gaby:​ Like, what is this?!
Kristin:​ Yeah, yeah, yeah, or Inspector Gadget. You know, you take your
pick. Okay, before we go too in-depth with fucking Buffy’s jacket, can we
just go to red velvet Willow? Not to–
Jenny:​ Also–
Gaby:​ [groans] You guys.
Kristin: ​Yeah, I wanna spend time here, but I just wanna say that Willow is
wearing red velvet, and then we go to the next scene. Buffy and Joyce are
also both wearing red velvet. There’s like–
Jenny: ​What?!
Gaby: ​It’s Christmas!


Kristin:​ I mean, I know, I just wanna make sure…
Jenny:​ But Willow’s Jewish.
Kristin:​ Yeah but she– Willow is Jewish but also on a holiday spirit mission.
So.
Gaby: ​Ugh, a redhead in red velvet. Chef’s kiss right now. [Kristin laughs] I
can’t even handle it.
Kristin:​ This scene, huh?
Gaby:​ Whoa!
Jenny: ​That. Barry. White.
Kristin:​ This is like… can I ask? Can I– I’ve seen this scene many times,
right, of the, like, person being like, “I would like for you to take my
virginity.” You know? Like, ​90210​ was all about this shit. Fucking ​Saved by
the Bell.​ I don’t even know. I’m just making up shows now.
But it was like a big trope. And like, that’s not– and I’m queer, we’re all
queer, so maybe none of us have a good reference point. But I did not have
a moment where I was like, “and now is the moment that I would like to
give you my body.”
Gaby:​ Oh no, not at all. Absolutely not.
Kristin:​ Did you, Jenny? Did you have that moment? Jenny is so disgustedly
looking at me right now.
Jenny:​ [laughing uncomfortably] I’m so not into this!
Kristin:​ I mean, it’s just–
Gaby:​ No, nothing like that. I wasn’t even dating– it was like some friend of
mine that I had gone to prom with. And then we had, like, made out or
something.


Oh no, we did some other stuff, and then I was like, “Hey man, at some
point we could do this for real if you want.” And he was like, “dope.” [Kristin
laughs] And that was literally the end of– like, I don’t mean to write
Shakespeare here, but that was literally the conversation.
Kristin: ​Yep.
Gaby:​ And I was like, “Tight, tight, tight. Bring a condom.” It was not, like…
Kristin:​ Yeah. I don’t know. My–
Gaby: ​We didn’t talk like ​Dawson’s Creek,​ if I’m- [laughs]
Kristin:​ My first girlfriend, my first ever girlfriend, who is now my very best
friend and who officiated our wedding.
Gaby:​ That’s the gayest shit I’ve ever heard. Anyway.
Kristin:​ Yeah. I’m dumping Randi’s secrets out on the public channels here.
But like, she had– before her and I were together, she had a boyfriend and
they had that kind of conversation. They were together for so long in high
school and they talked about if they were ready yet.
Gaby: ​Blech!
Kristin:​ So I know– I know it really happened–
Gaby:​ [simultaneously] I mean, I’m sorry, you should talk about it, it’s so
lovely.
Kristin:​ It is, it just– I never experienced anything like it. It was always just
like, I guess we’re doing a thing, so…
Gaby:​ I also had– like, I appreciate that a lot. I think it’s also– I had the
experience a couple times of presenting the idea to a gentleman. Maybe
from ages, like, 14 to 17– presenting the idea– floating the idea to a
gentleman and having him go, “I’m not ready.”
Kristin:​ Just like Willow and Oz!


Gaby:​ That happened to me twice. No, but Willow’s not a– I mean, Oz is not
a virgin. But the two– two or three times, it was like a guy who– I was
never, like–
Kristin: ​Wow!
Gaby: ​I would be like, “Oh, what do you think if we…?” and they would be
like, “oh, I’m not ready. Like, we’re too young.”
Kristin:​ Wow!
Gaby: ​Yeah. I mean, they– I– nerds. Like, fucking nerds, for sure, but–
Kristin:​ Right, but still, that’s heartwarming! [Jenny laughs] That warms my
heart.
Gaby:​ It was interesting. It was an interesting thing, and when I tell people
that now, they’re like, “What?!” And dude, I know, imagine it happening to
you three times.
Kristin:​ [laughs] You mentioned earlier that November 9th, the day that
we’re recording this episode, was a particular time for men. And I just think
November 9th is a great time for us to hear this wonderful story–
Gaby:​ I know.
Kristin: ​About some young teenage boys being like, “I’m not ready for
that.”
Gaby:​ It was really interesting. And so I understand– like, I relate to Oz’s– I
get it. But also, these were guys who hadn’t– and also, I think there’s this
thing where it’s like, women are supposed to be the ones who are like, “I
want it to be special,” and men are like, “I don’t care!”
But like, their thing– all three times, I think, they were like, “No, I just
want– I need my thing to be special.” As a cis guy, being like, “when I lose
my virginity, I want it to be special” and I was like, “what?!”


Kristin:​ Right? ‘Cause we aren’t told those stories. We’re not–
Gaby:​ But these dudes, that’s what they wanted.
Kristin: ​Although– and then, you know, credit to Buffy for telling that story,
of really having a character– ‘cause fine, Oz isn’t a virgin. But Oz’s case is
kind of like, those other times weren’t like this. He kind of is saying–
Gaby:​ Yeah, “I want us to be in this relationship and be trusting each other
and stuff.” So once again, teenage boys proven to have brains.
Kristin: ​Yeah. Also, we’re just coming off of “The Wish” where we met Vamp
Willow for the first time. And Vamp Willow was like, licking Xander’s face and
Angel’s– just licking everything. And I just wanna give a shoutout to Alyson
Hannigan, who can, within the span of one episode, go from playing this–
Jenny: ​Go from licking things to like totally not licking things!
Kristin: ​Yeah, yeah. But it’s just like, she’s playing two totally– she went
from so sexy that Kate Leth barely made it fucking through her Fashion
Watch for that episode. To like, nerdy Willow, trying to be sexy and playing
ridiculous music. I mean, you know. Whatever.
Gaby:​ [sighs happily] That dress though. Also, I– this is– I just wanna have
a quick little speculation. What do you think Willow and Oz have done up till
now?
Kristin:​ Ahh.
Gaby:​ I’m gonna go, light fingering.
Kristin:​ I think hands.
Gaby: ​Anyone? [laughs]
Kristin:​ I think it’s hands, all hands, all the time. Hands on penises, hands
on–
Gaby:​ You think she’s givin’ him HJs?!


Kristin: ​I do. HJs, HJs.
Gaby: ​[high-pitched] You think there’s HJs happening?
Kristin:​ I do. I do. I think–
Jenny:​ Uhh… I think…
Gaby: ​I was like– when he turns her down, to just be like, just a light beej.
[Kristin laughs] Just a light– some light…
Kristin:​ “I’m not ready for this, but I tell you what I am ready for.”
Gaby:​ Right, like, no, no P in V, but you know what we can do? Hit me with
one of those HJs, girl.
Kristin:​ Pour me a glass of Sprite on ice. A literal bottle of Sprite on ice in
this scene. I hope everyone noticed it.
Gaby:​ Because later on, they were in bed, talking, and they’ve changed
clothes, so.
Kristin: ​Yeah!
Gaby:​ HJ time.
Kristin:​ Definitely stuff happening.
Jenny:​ No, they just got out of their velvet dresses and into their cozy PJs.
Kristin:​ Oh, to cuddle?
Jenny: ​To cuddle and talk.
Gaby:​ For easier access to the fingering! Jenny!
Jenny: ​[laughs] Gaby…


Kristin:​ [laughs] I feel like we’ve talked about– I’m so sorry. We have a
young, like, parents who would listen with their children, and now they’ve all
stopped. It’s all over for us. Sorry about it.
Gaby: ​This is my fault and they should have known that, coming in, ‘cause
this is the type of content I bring.
Kristin:​ No. Jenny literally brought up finger-banging in the last episode.
Gaby:​ You texted me!
Kristin:​ That’s when we texted you.
Jenny:​ [cracking up] Oh yeah.
Kristin: ​You’ve really been making appearances in so many episodes.
Gaby:​ Oh yeah!
Kristin: ​So off to Joyce and her yule log.
Gaby: ​Angel’s on top.
Jenny:​ Yo! Angel’s on top, oh yeah–
Kristin:​ Angel’s. On. Top.
Jenny: ​No time like Christmas fucking Eve to decorate your goddamn
Christmas tree! What’s wrong with these people?
Kristin: ​Yeah! As two people– there’s two out of three of us that celebrate
Christmas in this room, and I’ll tell you when I decorate my tree, and it’s
like, the fucking day after Thanksgiving.
Gaby:​ Really?
Kristin:​ Well, no, because it won’t live long enough. But it’s like December
1st. I can’t wait to get my Christmas tree. And the Christmas tree doesn’t
just stay in the house, ​naked​.


Jenny:​ Heavens no!
Gaby:​ I don’t know anything about this.
Kristin:​ Well, you’re gonna know this year when you come with us to get a
Christmas tree.
Gaby:​ Yay!
Kristin:​ Oh actually, probably right around the time that this episode airs, is
gonna be when it’s time.
Gaby: ​Oh my god, and we’ll just post pics! [Kristin laughs]
Jenny:​ So they’re decorating the tree and then, rap-a-tap-tap, somebody’s
at the door!
Kristin: ​Rap-a-tap-fucking-tap.
Jenny:​ [high pitched] Who could that be? Who could that be, it’s ​Faith​! It’s
Faith.
Kristin: ​Oh my god.
Jenny: ​[imitating Faith and Buffy] “Hey.” “Hey.”
Kristin:​ This is… you said something to the effect of, this is the most
romantic– this is the most romantic relationship on the show. Like, this is–
Jenny: ​This exchange in particular.
Kristin:​ Fucking Angel and Buffy can go suck it. This is…
Gaby: ​This is the most tense, teenage: “Hey.” “Hey.”
Kristin: ​“Yeah, whatever.”
Gaby:​ “I don’t like you, whatever.”


[Jenny cackles]
Kristin: ​“I guess that party didn’t exist, it’s whatever. Don’t give me shit
about it.”
Jenny:​ [high pitched] You guys… Buffy’s like, “Glad you came” and Gaby is
like, “hell yeah.” [laughs]
Gaby:​ I did say, “hell yeah.” Under my breath, in the tone of Matthew
McConaughey in ​Dazed and Confused​, he’s like, “hell yeah.” [all laugh]
Kristin:​ It’s ​really​ good.
Gaby:​ He looked so upset.
Jenny:​ Faith also brought presents, one for Buffy and one for Joyce. They’re
pretty crappy. They’re crappy.
Gaby: ​Yeah, she keeps saying they’re crappy.
Jenny:​ What do you think is in there?
Kristin: ​Aw, she’s nervous, she doesn’t wanna be vulnerable!
Jenny:​ [high pitched] I know!
Kristin: ​Great question. What is it?
Gaby:​ The one for Joyce was long and skinny, so I’m gonna say pencil
collection.
Kristin: ​I thought maybe a pen.
Jenny: ​Or like, shoplifted eyeliner or something?
Gaby: ​Yeah. A pen, a nice pen. And the one for Buffy was flat, so–
Kristin:​ It looks like a book, I think.


Gaby:​ A book?
Jenny:​ Oh my god, maybe a journal? Maybe a– “I write one entry then you
write the next entry.”
Kristin:​ Literally, there’s not a gayer present to get for the girl that you’re
crushing on then a fucking journal for Christmas!
Jenny:​ Here’s a book where you can write all your thoughts about me.
Kristin: ​Right.
Gaby:​ If you want.
Kristin: ​And then, like, in six months I’ll be like, “So did you use your
journal? What did you write– do you want to read me anything from your
journal?”
Gaby:​ Or like, did you ever… oh, man. [Kristin laughs] Did you ever give
someone a journal and then you make the little prompts at the top, you
know?
Kristin:​ Ooh, I’ve had…
Gaby:​ Right? Like, oh, it’s a regular journal but I made it for you special.
Kristin:​ [whispers] God…
Gaby:​ So it’ll be like, today, write about your mom and how much you like–
you know, whatever, I don’t know. I’m sorry.
Jenny:​ Wow!
Kristin:​ “Write about your mom.” That’s super sexy, Gaby. [laughs]
Gaby:​ Oh, you know what I mean. Just to show familiarity, you know? To
show that you know them and stuff.


Kristin:​ When I dated my first girlfriend, who I have now brought up twice
in this episode. Unbeknownst to me, she kept a journal. On a computer,
‘cause it was right when computers were invented, everyone.
And she typed an entry almost every day of that summer, the first summer
that we were together, and she printed it out at the end of the summer and
she gave it to me. And I still have it!
Gaby:​ [gasps] Oh my god!
Jenny: ​What?!
Kristin:​ Yes!
Jenny:​ What?!
Gaby:​ Oh my god!
Kristin: ​I still have it. I will keep it forever.
Jenny: ​What?!
Kristin:​ I know, we should, like, probably read it.
Gaby:​ Yes.
Jenny:​ I do ​not​ wanna read it.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Gaby:​ Live-read.
Kristin:​ That’s actually how she got outed to her mom, because her mom
read a page and it was about [whispers] ​us having sex.​ [Gaby gasps] It
wasn’t even a page that was like, “I have love feelings.” It was like, “and
then we did this and it was great.” And her mom read it!
Jenny:​ Wow, is your next podcast… you just reading entries from that
journal?


Gaby:​ We’re gonna need to rent out the theater at the Ace Motel. Everyone
is– Ace Motel. Sorry, I’m thinking of Faith. [Kristin and Jenny laugh] Ace
Hotel, everyone gets to play a part.
Kristin:​ Yes!
Gaby: ​We reenact the whole journal.
[Jenny groans]
Kristin: ​Oh my god, there’s probably ​such​ embarrassing shit in there. I
have to get it out.
Gaby:​ I had a LiveJournal. I wrote all this stuff too.
Kristin:​ Anyhow.
Gaby:​ Then Angel shows up and– fucking ruining everything.
Kristin:​ My next note is–
Jenny:​ Right? Worst timing!
Gaby: ​It’s like, get out!
Jenny: ​My girlfriend just got here–
Gaby:​ Got here, get away, ex-boyfriend!
Jenny: ​And you’re all twitchy and sweaty.
Kristin: ​Right? Joyce has just offered the girls some nog. [all laugh] My note
on Angel’s arrival is: “Angel, sweaty, sweaty Angel.” And then I realized, he
has so many fucking shirts on. He can’t… handle it. Like, he’s literally
covered in sweat. He’s like, “I have not one, not two, but three shirts on!”
Jenny:​ [laughs] He’s dying.


Gaby:​ Then he throws himself out a window. [all laugh] Which is the
funniest thing.
Kristin: ​[laughing] He is so dramatic!
Gaby:​ He throws himself out– literally, not even like, gently. Like, throws
himself out the window.
Kristin:​ But not–
Gaby: ​“Oh, we’re breaking up and things are hard and I might murder!
Bah!” He’s so dramatic!
Kristin: ​But not before– I have a note about kinky– I wrote: “Jenny
Calendar, kinky bitch” because [laughing] she’s like, “She wants you to
touch her.” She just loves being there.
Gaby:​ It gets more rapey!
Kristin: ​Even before that bitch died, she loved to be there, being like, “So
Angel, what are you gonna do?” She just loves to be involved, you know?
Gaby:​ Yeah. He was looking at Buffy’s neck and Jenny Calendar–
Jenny:​ Ugh.
Gaby:​ That’s when I was like, “See? You’re wrong. She’s trying to get him
to, like… assault her.”
Kristin: ​Yes.
Gaby: ​Ugh.
Kristin:​ Anyway. Back to the LOLs of Angel throwing his whole vampire
body out the window. It’s good. “You may have to kill him again,” Giles says
to Buffy. Merry Christmas, everybody. That’s what I have–
Jenny:​ Hurray! [Kristin laughs]


Gaby:​ Or he’s gonna kill himself.
Kristin: ​Right, and then there’s some more Jenny Calendar and Angel stuff.
Jenny: ​Ugh, it’s just like– ugh!
Kristin:​ She’s driving him, right, mad.
Gaby: ​Ooh and then, I said, before anyone… they were just like, “oh, the
Harbingers, they live where things are dying.” And then I yelled, “The
Christmas trees!” [all laugh]
Kristin:​ You pulled a Rose Russo in that moment. You were fully my mom.
You were like, “I’ve solved the case!” [Jenny and Kristin laugh] “I’ve figured
it out!” Right, and Buffy has– so we’ve already laughed at Buffy’s trench
coat, but I’d also like to laugh at Buffy’s entrance into the Christmas tree lot.
It is, like– she storms in at 100 miles per hour. Because she’s just as
excited as you are, Gaby. She figured it out. The trees! It’s the trees.
Gaby:​ That coat, it looks ridiculous. Then she punches the ground and drops
into a candle lair. [giggles]
Kristin: ​You know, she does. She barely touches the ground, and it’s like–
makes one Buffy-sized hole.
Gaby:​ Yeah, and then she goes down there and then she sees a bunch of
Harbingers and she makes some fun little pun jokes.
Kristin:​ She does. That’s what my next thing was–
Gaby:​ What is it?
Kristin:​ “Ten more minutes of chanting, and then everyone has to go to
bed.” Very good.
Gaby:​ Yeah. Very funny. She kicks over their board game.


Kristin:​ [laughs] Yeah. She does, and then she– what’s great is that Jenny
Calendar has been really building to a climax. I mean, I know it’s The First,
but it’s really– Jenny Calendar has taken the main role for The First here.
And it gets to a point where you’re like, Okay, buddy. And Buffy gets to sort
of be us in the scene, and say–
Gaby: ​Yeah. [deep voice] “I am the thing the darkness fears.”
Jenny:​ [exasperated] Oh my god.
Gaby: ​Which honestly, same.
Kristin:​ [laughs] And Buffy’s like, “alright…”
Gaby:​ Same, same. Yeah, she– I like the– what’s the line she says?
Kristin:​ She says, like, “alright, I get it, you’re evil.” You know? Which is
exactly what I was thinking. Like, enough, Jenny Calendar. Enough, The
First. You’re being just as dramatic as Angel.
Gaby: ​Everyone is such a drama queen.
Jenny: ​Then she promises that Angel will be dead by sunrise. And then
Buffy’s like, quip, quip, quip. And then The First is like, ugh, do I really have
to do this to make a point, okay, fine! I’ll do this huge performance of being
a massive horned demon out of nowhere–
Kristin:​ And a Halloween bat, is what I wrote down.
Jenny:​ [laughs] A Halloween bat.
Gaby:​ I wrote, “CGI bullshit.”
Jenny:​ CGI bullshit. And “dead by sunrise!” Great.
Kristin:​ Yeah, yeah. And so then we go out. I have written “Angel, so
dramatic, all the time.” “What I am and ever shall be,” he’s just speaking–


he’s fully gone into full Shakespeare. He’s speaking in iambic pentameter
about the sunrise…
Gaby:​ The weirdest line for me is when he goes, “Am I a righteous man?!”
[laughs]
Jenny:​ I think that’s the weirdest line for everybody.
Gaby:​ Like, what the fuck is happening?
Kristin:​ Yeah, there’s… a lot.
Gaby:​ It’s so dramatic. Then he loses me again, even though I was already
lost, when they physically fight each other. [Jenny groans] Which– no
bueno.
Kristin:​ No bueno, but the series has really skirted this line many times.
Because it’s like– ‘cause they’re like, well, it’s not just a girl and a boy, it’s a
slayer and a vampire. So it receives permissions that other– Gaby’s ​snarling​.
Gaby:​ I’m so upset.
Kristin:​ Snarling in her chair. I get it, I get it. I’m just saying, like–
Gaby:​ It’s terrible, it’s uncom– it’s not portrayed… it’s portrayed to be
romantic, that they’re like, grappling with each other. He’s holding– she
looks terrified.
Kristin:​ Yes.
Gaby:​ She looks like a child. She looks so scared. And he’s like, holding her
arms so tight, and he’s like, “Am I a righteous man?!” And also– and the
thing that makes it worse for me is like, Okay, if they were both 17, fine.
Once again–
Jenny:​ 241?
Gaby: ​He should know better!


Kristin:​ Yeah, yeah, he should.
Gaby:​ He’s a– in that moment, I was like, this is a hundred-year-old being
and this– Sarah Michelle Gellar looks like a child.
Kristin:​ Right. And the whole plotline hinges– I wrote down a quote that is
not a quote, but could be. Sorry for my vulgar language, everyone. But like,
“I wanna fuck you so bad that I have to die.” Because I literally can’t– come
on. Now if you’re 17…
Gaby:​ Then yes, that seems true.
Jenny:​ That’s totally what you’re writing in your journal.
Kristin: ​Then yes, that’s a legitimate– yes. You feel it, it’s true. But come
on, man. This is–
Gaby: ​But he should know better.
Kristin:​ He should, he should. This is the theme– becoming a running
theme in this series at this point, is– [laughs] we started strong with Angel.
We’re really petering out on Angel.
Gaby: ​Well, then it kinda turns to me, and then I wrote down, I don’t know,
I guess this becomes a very interesting anti-suicide thing? Which I’m not
against. Like, it’s interesting that she’s kind of like, “No, the cowardly thing
to do is to die and the brave thing to do is to fight.” And I was like, that’s
interesting, Okay, I can get on board with that…
Kristin: ​Well, and there’s a lot you can layer over this. And I actually– I
would really love to play this speech that Buffy has, if that’s cool.
Gaby:​ Yeah.
[audio clip from episode]
Buffy:​ Strong is fighting. It’s hard, and it’s painful, and it’s every day.
It’s what we have to do, and we can do it together. [pause] But if


you’re too much of a coward for that, then burn. If I can’t convince
you that you belong in this world, then I don’t know what can.
Kristin:​ So… ‘cause you were just talking about, like, okay, it was this one
thing but it could also be read as this other thing. And I think that this
moment is very strong ‘cause it could be read as a lot of things.
It’s like, we all have demons to fight and it’s really fucking hard sometimes.
And it feels overwhelming and it feels like you can’t fight that thing inside of
you that probably isn’t a murderer, but–
Gaby: ​Right, that’s what I mean.
Kristin:​ That’s– I know. Because if you take that out, it becomes this really
beautiful scene. But then when you sort of look at the particulars, it
becomes a little bit trickier. But I do wanna at least give this speech the
credit it’s due, I think. When you’re looking at it as just a motivational
speech to keep on fighting, and to not fall into– yes, Jenny?
Jenny:​ I mean, I think it’s a beautiful speech, but the cues that we’re seeing
in the show don’t really indicate that it’s having an impact. In fact, nothing
seems to have an impact except the Christmas miracle of snow.
Kristin:​ Right. You’re right.
Jenny:​ Nothing’s working and then it snows and then everyone’s like, “ohh.”
Gaby:​ The show wants us to like Angel and believe– like, the show ships
them. Instead of sort of being like… again, I really think that we only give
Angel the passes that we do because he’s a good-looking white guy. And I
will stand on that hill and die on it!
Kristin:​ [laughs] He’s on a hill too!
Gaby:​ And I will wait for the sun to kill me! Because, again, okay, so it’s
this– it’s almost like the boyfriend… it reminded me of, in high school, when
you have that boyfriend who’s like, “If you break up with me, I’ll kill myself.”
‘Cause she shouldn’t be the only good, redeeming thing about him.


Kristin:​ Right. Yes, I agree.
Gaby:​ And then if she’s like, “well, just stay alive– what about for me?”
That’s what you say, ‘cause you’re a teenager. But you shouldn’t be what’s
keeping someone alive.
Kristin:​ Yeah. This show– this episode in particular, but it really glorifies the
notion of you being someone’s everything.
Gaby:​ Exactly.
Kristin: ​Like, there is nothing outside of that person, which is really
troublesome.
Jenny:​ But also, like, 100% the way that any teenager experiences…
Kristin: ​Yes. Yes, yes. Totally.
Gaby: ​Buffy’s feelings are…
Jenny: ​[laughing] But there’s only one teenager in this dynamic.
Gaby:​ That’s what I mean! Buffy is understandable. Angel… should just
know better. And also, it’s like– I literally wrote down: “okay, but he is, like,
a bad guy.” It’s a very interesting time to be doing this episode because
there’s all these men getting outed as predators. And then some of them are
like, “well, I’m gonna go and get evaluated and get treatment, and I had
problems and I had issues and I’m a bad person and I’m so sorry, blah blah
blah.”
And I’m like, “okay, when does the apology tour begin in the next few
years?” Mel Gibson’s in a movie right now, like, everyone’s chill with that. So
there’s this quote-unquote “redemption arc” that we extend to white men in
particular, that is not extended to– like, Janet Jackson showed her nipple by
accident on the Super Bowl and her career suffered for years. And she
wasn’t extended– and she didn’t even do anything, and she wasn’t extended
that sort of courtesy that we extend every white dude who– like Woody
Allen, Roman Polanski, everyone.


So I just think that Angel– okay. We all are supposed to feel bad for Angel
and Buffy in this situation. But my mind goes back to the people he killed in
the mansion, going, “You made me look at my dead children. I was
supposed to get married and you killed me. I was just this woman who
worked in a lower position and you took advantage of that and killed me.”
Like, who are ​those​ people? Why are we sympathizing or caring about
fucking Angel at this point? There’s like– I mean, fucking Giles’ girlfriend. It’s
so weird that– I mean, and maybe the show is giving us this kind of, you
know, “oh, well”– maybe it is the thing of like, the person you love can also
be a monster? But I don’t know– and it’s gray? I don’t know. I just was like,
they really went very far to show us that he did bad things.
Kristin:​ Right, it’s not–
Gaby: ​And not just bad, like, “oh, he killed some random”...
Kristin:​ Yes.
Gaby:​ But he killed his friend, he took advantage of a woman in a lower
position and killed her. Then they went out of their way to be like, he also
killed children! Then why show us all that?
Kristin: ​Right. ‘Cause it could have been, I think– I think it could have been
the same storyline had he been a vampire who killed people. But it is really–
they wanted to get it to the most dramatic–
Gaby:​ Be like, “he ​loved it! H
​ e was cruel and serial-killer about it!”
Kristin: ​Yeah. Yeah, it’s very complicated. It’s very complicated. But we
have Gaby Dunn here with us to help us fucking unpack this shit. [Gaby
laughs]
Jenny: ​Thank god.
Kristin:​ Can I talk about snowfall for a second?
Jenny: ​Yes.


Gaby:​ I was gonna say, “but then it starts snowing so everything’s fine.”
Kristin:​ So it starts snowing. Let’s get– let’s just– let’s talk about the end of
this ep– we’ll come back, ‘cause I have other things to say. But it snows. It
snows, like, three feet in…
Gaby:​ Sure. [laughs]
Jenny:​ About five minutes? Ten minutes?
Kristin: ​Now, I looked up if it has ever snowed in Los Angeles.
Gaby:​ Oh, what did it say?
Kristin: ​I know we don’t know exactly where– it has. And I would like to let
you know that the record snowfall in a 24-hour period was in 1949, in
January. And that was 0.3 inches.
Jenny:​ [stifling laughter] Oh my god.
Kristin:​ Point! Three! Inches. So this is–
Gaby:​ And you guys said it looked like Brooklyn.
Kristin:​ This looked like– so Jenny and I– what year was that, Jenny? Do
you remember? 2012…
Jenny:​ Oh, no, actually it was 2010.
Kristin:​ Ohh, okay. 2010. So Jenny and I were up at my parents’ house that
December. And this is like, the Snowpocalypse in Brooklyn. And we saw on
the news that there was this huge snowstorm, out of nowhere, coming to hit
Brooklyn. So we were like, fuck, we gotta get back–
Jenny:​ It was on Christmas day. We were supposed to be going from your
parents in upstate New York to my parents in Pennsylvania. We had to call
my parents and say–
Kristin:​ Sorry!


Jenny:​ We can’t come because there’s gonna be this bananas blizzard that
nobody predicted. So we got back to Brooklyn and like, all of the plow guys
were on vacation.
Kristin:​ Nobody, it was–
Jenny:​ The mayor, you know, was out of town for the holid– you know, no–
there was no staff. Nobody knew.
Kristin: ​I don’t think anything like this will ever happen again.
Jenny:​ And… well, yeah, ‘cause they’ve been overcompensating ever since.
So it just snowed, like, fucking I don’t know what. Like nothing I’ve ever
seen. We walked down Fifth Avenue in Brooklyn…
Kristin:​ Fifth Avenue in Brooklyn! A major thoroughfare.
Jenny: ​There were buses that had been abandoned–
Kristin:​ [overlapping] Abandoned, in the middle of the street!
Jenny:​ [overlapping] Diagonally through the intersection.
Gaby:​ Oh my god.
Jenny:​ Just like, they couldn’t go any further.
Kristin:​ It was cra– I mean, we went to sleep, woke up, the street was not
plowed and then went to sleep again, woke up, and the street was not– like,
it was like nothing we’ve ever seen.
Jenny:​ It was a different world.
Gaby:​ And that’s where they shot this scene. [laughs]
Kristin:​ And that is where this scene was.


Jenny:​ We also happened to live on the one street in the WB lot. [Kristin
laughs]
Gaby:​ In the WB lot! Cool!
Kristin:​ Oh, I want to– so before we really round out the episode, I wanna
just– Gaby, talk about a moment of realization that ​you​ had. [Gaby bursts
out laughing]
Jenny: ​Amazing. My favorite part of the episode.
Kristin:​ If you wanna just walk us through that.
Gaby:​ Okay, so it’s supposed to be dawn, right? It’s supposed to be, like,
the sun rise. Okay?
Kristin: ​The sun is rising.
Gaby:​ So– [clears throat] Giles, awake. Totally awake, totally fine. Uh,
Willow and Oz, completely awake, in their pajamas. Bed undisturbed. Just
awake, givin’ HJs.
Kristin: ​Maybe they were talking. Yeah.
Gaby:​ Yeah. Then– that was fine. Xander’s sleeping. Then… Faith and
Joyce?! Awake?
Kristin:​ [laughing hard] What did they do?!
Gaby:​ I yelled, “What did they do?” So at no point did Faith go home, did
they–
Jenny: ​Well, Faith is supposed to be watch-dogging for Joyce and they’re
probably both really worried about Buffy, waiting for her to come home.
Gaby:​ What did they talk about? What did– okay, I’m gonna need–
Jenny: ​I think they played Uno. [Kristin laughs] I think Joyce fed–


Gaby:​ I’m gonna need a full rundown of what they did–
Jenny: ​Faith Christmas cookies.
Gaby: ​For the hours that Buffy was busy.
Jenny:​ Maybe they watched ​It’s a Wonderful Life​ on TV and Faith pretended
to hate it, and be like, “ah, this old… stupid movie,” but secretly was like,
yes…
Gaby: ​Yeah, totally. It warmed her– her heart grew three sizes that day.
[Kristin laughs]
Jenny: ​Yes, exactly!
Gaby:​ Do you think that Joyce just was like, “Do you wanna see the baby
albums?” and Faith was like, “I do.”
Kristin: ​Yes. Yes!
Jenny: ​Ohhh!
Gaby:​ And then she just showed her every– Buffy all through childhood up
until–
Kristin: ​Oh my god!
Jenny:​ This is the fanfic.
Kristin:​ And then later, Faith’s gonna be like, “I saw that picture of you
when you were dressed up like a clown for Halloween.”
Gaby:​ Yes, exactly.
Kristin:​ “And it was really cute!”
Gaby:​ Yeah. She’s like, “do you mind if I take this one?” It’s just like, Buffy
in a school play.


Kristin:​ Yes!
Gaby:​ And she, like, holds it close to her heart.
Jenny:​ Oh no!
Kristin: ​She puts it on the inside pocket of her leather jacket. [laughs]
Jenny: ​You guys…
Gaby:​ Yeah, and it’s like, Buffy playing Maria in ​The Sound of Music​ in the
fifth grade.
Kristin:​ Ugh, that’s good. While you were talking about what Joyce and
Faith did, which is a topic I am extremely interested in. I was just looking
up–
Gaby:​ Sexual Tension Award.
Kristin:​ Yeah, oh, we do have to give the Sexual Tension Award, but I was–
Gaby:​ Faith and Joyce, baby! [all laugh]
Kristin: ​Is that your contender? I was gonna go– again, I know we’re gonna
have a lot of ‘em, but I just think Faith and Buffy were…
Jenny:​ That moment at the door, it’s too much.
Kristin: ​It’s too much, right? Gaby–
Gaby:​ Giles and Angel!
Kristin:​ Giles and Angel, very tense. But I… I don’t know. My vote is to give
the full award to Buffy and Faith again. I… is that bad?
Gaby: ​Okay. Yeah, keep it winning.
Kristin: ​Alright. But we–


Gaby: ​I mean, it’s no Faith and Joyce, but. [Jenny laughs]
Kristin:​ Ooh, the listeners are gonna be really split on this one. Will you
play the jingle?
[Sexual Tension Award jingle]
Sexual Tension Award!
Kristin: ​Okay, so. Buffy and Faith. I’m sorry. I’m sorry, that’s the podcast
that you’re at. They won.
Gaby:​ Alright, that’s fine. [crosstalk]
Kristin:​ Runners up, Joyce and Faith, 100%.
Gaby:​ Ageism.
Kristin:​ But– [laughs]
Jenny:​ Wow.
Kristin:​ Gaby Dunn!
Jenny:​ Gaby Dunn.
Kristin:​ It has been a joy to have–
Gaby:​ Thanks. The episode ends, by the way, with them walking, holding
hands. So are they back together?
Jenny:​ Err…
Kristin:​ Are they? They’re–
Gaby:​ When your shitty friend gets back together with her shitty ex.
Jenny:​ Ugh!


Kristin: ​Yeah, right? You know who’s not gonna be happy? Faith.
Gaby:​ Faith has been warmed with the joys of an older woman, so… [Kristin
laughs hard]
Jenny:​ Gaby!
Kristin:​ Gaby going hard for Joyce and Faith. Hey, you know what. I’m not
gonna say no to it myself.
Gaby:​ Thank you.
Jenny:​ You guys!
Kristin:​ What? Anyhow…
Jenny:​ Regardless.
Kristin:​ We don’t know what’s gonna become of Angel and Buffy, but they
are certainly walking down a four-foot snowy path. [laughs]
Gaby:​ Holdin’ hands!
Kristin:​ Holdin’ hands. [she and Jenny sigh] Gaby, will you tell us where we
can find you? I mean, I think most of our listeners know where to find you.
But tell the new people.
Gaby:​ Oh, sure. You can find me @gabydunn on Twitter, @gabyroad on
Instagram. Youtube channel is youtube.com/justbetweenusshow. Also I have
a book out now, it’s called ​I Hate Everyone But You​.
It was a New York Times bestseller, so you should get it, otherwise people
will be like, “Why are you so behind the times?”
Kristin:​ I think Jenny and I put it over the top. We bought two copies, and I
think that’s what got it onto the–
Gaby:​ Thank you.


Jenny:​ You’re welcome.
Kristin: ​It was right there, and then we bought our two, and it was– you
know, not to, whatever, but fucking, it’s a great book. You should get it.
Jenny:​ Yeah, it’s really great.
Kristin:​ Incredible representation for queer people, bisexual people–
Gaby:​ Thanks!
Kristin:​ And just written– it’s just really written incredibly. And the whole
book is written in emails and text messages, back and forth, between the
two main characters. And I’ve never read anything like that in my reading
history.
Gaby:​ ​Dracula​ itself is an epistolary novel.
Kristin:​ What?!
Gaby:​ It’s journal entries and letters.
Kristin:​ Wow!
Jenny:​ Bram… Stoker’s?
Gaby:​ The one and only! So yeah, if you like vampires, the original vampire
story was told similarly to my book. [all laugh]
Kristin:​ Keeping it on brand.
Gaby:​ Thanks. And I think– and I have a podcast–
Jenny:​ Yeah, do you have a podcast?
Gaby:​ Called “Bad With Money.”
Kristin:​ Yes. And you just had a short that came out.


Gaby:​ Oh, yeah! I did a little short film called ​Love Me Do.​ It’s on the New
Form Youtube page, if you just look up, on Youtube, “New Form Love Me
Do,” it was a short about me and my dad. And it was at the Austin Film
Festival.
Kristin: ​Hell yeah.
Jenny:​ Sick.
Gaby:​ Thanks!
Kristin:​ So much cool shit. Gaby Dunn, just fucking burning it all down, you
know?
Gaby: ​Well thanks, guys. I got shy here at the end.
[Jenny and Kristin laugh]
Jenny:​ Unbelievable.
Kristin:​ We really pushed it. We were like, “What about this thing, and that
thing?”
Gaby:​ You were like my mom at Thanksgiving. Like, “Tell your aunt and
uncle what you did!” [Kristin laughs] “You did a short film? She did a short
film! Well, where can I see it? It’s on the internet! Nah, it’s too much work.”
Kristin:​ Could be a Long Island conversation.
Gaby:​ Yup!
Kristin:​ In my family. Alright, well, Jenny, why don’t you tell them about
you?
Jenny:​ Well, hey! I’m Jenny Owen Youngs. And when I’m not watching
Buffy and making this podcast, I write songs and record them and play
shows and so on.


You can learn more about me at jennyowenyoungs.com/buffering. And you
can also give me a shout on Twitter, @jennyowenyoungs.
Kristin:​ I am Kristin Russo and you can find out more about me and my
work with LGBTQ communities and their families over on my website at
kristinnoeline.com. That’s k-r-i-s-t-i-n-n-o-e-l-i-n-e.
That also happens to be my Twitter handle, so if you want to say hello to me
on Twitter, hello! Jenny gets a– what do you get, a shout?
Jenny:​ Or a holler.
Kristin: ​A holler! But I would like a proper hello. You can find me on Twitter
over @kristinnoeline as well.
Jenny:​ Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram
@bufferingcast and you can email us directly at
bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin:​ Yes, and if you were following us on those social accounts, you
would know that over the last couple of weeks, we have been conducting the
Sexual Tension Award showdown for Season 1. We did Season 2 with
Season 2 and we will do Season 3 when we get to the end of Season 3.
But we did not crown a winner from all of the Sexual Tension Award winners
in Season 1, and with the help of Emily, our listener who has spearheaded
the entire Sexual Tension Award showdown effort, we have come together
as a group to determine who won Season 1. Who do you think it was?
Jenny:​ Who else could it be but Cordelia and Cordelia!
Kristin:​ [at the same time] Cordelia on Cordelia! I like that you went with
“and” and I went with “on.”
Jenny:​ Po-tay-to, po-tah-to.
Kristin:​ Cordelia and Cordelia, we congratulate you both for your–
Jenny:​ [laughing] This must be very exciting for you.


Kristin:​ [laughing] Extreme effort at sexual tension with yourself.
Jenny: ​Hurray!
Kristin:​ Self-love, so important.
Jenny:​ Amen. And as usual, your trophy is in the mail. This one will take a
little bit longer ‘cause it’s a little bit bigger ‘cause it’s for the whole season,
than the regular episodic Sexual Tension Awards.
Kristin:​ I’m not looking forward to getting to the very end of the series.
Like, I don’t know what we will do. I will cry, but I am looking forward to
getting to the end of the series when we crown the ultimate, ultimate,
ultimate winner!
Jenny:​ Ohh, wow. Across all seven seasons.
Kristin:​ Right? What is that trophy gonna look like, is what I wanna know.
Jenny:​ I don’t know.
Kristin:​ Whew! Anyhow, back to us. If you wanna support this work, this–
[laughing] we are doing God’s work over here.
Jenny:​ Ha!
Kristin:​ Making sure that the world knows that Cordelia on Cordelia love is
celebrated.
Jenny:​ Hurray!
Kristin:​ And if you would like to support our work in any way, shape or
form, you can do that over on Patreon. You can go to
bufferingthevampireslayer.com, click on Patreon and you will join our
wonderful Patreon community.
There’s a secret Facebook group, we do Buffy Watches, people get songs in
advance, there’s secret Mailbag episodes. There’s, you know, voice memos


of “Buffy It’s Cold Outside” sung by Kristin and Jenny. It’s a great place, and
a reminder that we will be doing a Buffy Watch of “Bad Girls” on December
9th at 2 PM Pacific.
Jenny:​ Woo!
Kristin:​ You can also support our work by going over and getting yourself
some merchandise. ‘Tis the season for gifts, especially gifts that help us
smash the patriarchy. So you can go on over and click Shop on our website
and you’ll see all of our wares.
Jenny:​ Speaking of our wares, we wanna remind you that every month, we
create five handwritten lyric sheets. We sell them for $100 a piece and we
mail them to you and donate all the money at the end of every month to a
specific cause. This month, we are donating to New Alternatives.
Kristin:​ New Alternatives is an organization in New York City. They help
LGBTQ homeless youth. Just wanna give you an idea of how homelessness
affects LGBTQ youth. So LGBTQ+ youth make up 7% of the total youth
population. But when we’re looking at homeless youth, LGBTQ+ youth make
up 40% of the homeless population.
So this is– I know many of you know this. I mean, this has been an issue for
years and years and years. I remember watching a ​My So-Called Life
episode that tackled the issue of homeless LGBTQ youth, back in the early
90s.
So we’re very, very happy to be gathering funds to give to organizations like
New Alternatives, who are giving meals and support and help to these
homeless youth, who are homeless because of their sexuality or their gender
identity.
So thank you in advance for your support. Also a really great holiday gift to
give somebody, a lyric sheet that not only is a lyric sheet that’s nice and
they like, but they also know that the gift supported homeless LGBTQ youth.
Jenny:​ Yes.


Kristin:​ While we’re on this topic– now, we normally don’t talk about our
song before we play our song. But Jenny and I just wanted to touch base for
a moment on “Amends,” the song “Amends” for today. Because when we
were writing it– so we talked about the episode.
We know what’s happened, right? Angel is being taunted by the– then Buffy
is like, “Hold on! You have to stay strong.” And so we knew we were gonna
write– you know, the song has to be about the episode and it’s from Buffy’s
perspective.
But when we were talking, we decided we also wanted to write a song that
would lift up people over the holiday season who are split from their families.
Whether that’s because of their sexuality or their gender identity, whether
it’s because of politics, whether it’s because of a combination of many
factors. We know that many of you are working on building your chosen
family this season, and we know that that can be really difficult.
So know, as you’re listening to this song, that we wrote it with you in mind.
And that so many of us listening to this song and to this podcast together
are where you are have a very, very deep empathy for what you’re facing
and for what many of us are facing too alongside of you.
So sending all of you so much love as we roll over into December. We’re so
happy to have you all in our lives and to see you all finding each other
through this community. Enjoy the song and don’t worry, once it’s over,
we’ll play “Buffy It’s Cold Outside” so that no one has to cry in their car for
more than a couple of minutes.
Jenny:​ [laughs] Alright, let’s howl out so we can get to the music!
Kristin: ​Yes!
Jenny:​ Till next time…
All:​ Awwoooooooo!
Gaby:​ [quickly] Faith and Joyce forever.
[Kristin and Jenny laugh]


[Jenny performing “Amends” off the album “Songs from Season 3” by
Buffering the Vampire Slayer​]
So here we are in December
The end of another year
Sometimes it’s hard to remember
That you belong here
‘Cause I know the voices outside of yourself
Are telling you things that aren’t true
But when the gray comes in December
I’ll be here tellin’ you to
Keep
Holding on
Holding on
When something becomes so familiar
It can be hard to let go
You’re lookin’ for something to fill ya
What it should be, you don’t know
Look to the people that know who you are
We’re already waiting for you
Warm lights and snowfall to still you
Head for the home that you choose
And
Keep
Holding on
Holding on
Holding on
Holding on
Kristin: ​[whispering] Okay, are you still here? [normal volume] Hello, hello,
hi, we’re still here with you. We love you. We care about you.
Jenny:​ Okay, just get yourself… tissued.


Kristin:​ That song is also available for free download for everyone. So if
you’d like that song forever, you can get it at
bufferingthevampireslayer.com/amends. And you’ll see the free download
right there for everyone. And now, to lift all of our spirits together in
fanfiction glory…
Jenny:​ Hoo-ray!
Kristin:​ Here’s the complete version of “Buffy It’s Cold Outside.” And again,
you can find this song and the lyric video that goes along with it that made
Heather Hogan take her sweatshirt off and drink a whole glass of water–
[Jenny laughs] at bufferingthevampireslayer.com/tistheseason.
[Jenny Owen Youngs and Jess Abbott performing “Buffy It’s Cold
Outside”]
Jenny/Buffy: ​I really can’t stay…
Jess/Faith: ​But Buffy, it’s cold outside.
Jenny: ​I’ve got to go slay…
Jess:​ But Buffy, it’s cold outside.
Jenny: ​This evening has been…
Jess: ​Was hopin’ you’d ask me in.
Jenny:​ ...so very nice.
Jess: ​I’ve heard vamp hands are just like ice.
Jenny:​ My mother, she loves to worry…
Jess: ​B, c’mon, what’s your hurry?
Jenny: ​My watcher will be pacing the floor…


Jess: ​Listen to the fireplace roar!
Jenny: ​So really, I’d better scurry…
Jess:​ B, c’,mon, please don’t hurry!
Jenny: ​Well, maybe just a half a nog more?
Jess:​ I’ll put some leather on while you pour!
Jenny:​ The neighbors might think…
Jess:​ B, there’s a big bad out there!
Jenny:​ Hey, did you just wink?
Jess: ​The alleys are dark out there!
Jenny:​ I wish I knew how…
Jess: ​Who knows what monsters prowl?
Jenny: ​To braid your hair.
Jess:​ I’ll take your stake, just stay right there.
Jenny:​ I ought to say no to this trist.
Jess:​ Don’t you wanna kick the gearshift?
Jenny:​ At least I’m gonna say that I tried…
Jess:​ What’s the sense? We’re gal pals for life!
Jenny:​ I really can’t stay…
Jess: ​I think you’re patrolled out!
Jenny:​ Ah, but it’s–


Jenny and Jess:​ Cold outside…
Jenny: ​[speaking] Um, so Faith. Thanks again for the gifts.
Jess:​ [speaking] ‘Tis the season. Whatever ​that ​means.
Jenny:​ I simply must go…
Jess:​ Buffy, it’s cold outside.
Jenny:​ The… answer is no!
Jess:​ Buffy, it’s cold outside.
Jenny:​ This girls’ night has been…
Jess:​ How lucky you asked me in.
Jenny:​ ...so nice and warm.
Jess:​ Look out the window at that storm!
Jenny:​ Willow would be suspicious…
Jess:​ Gosh, your nog is delicious.
Jenny:​ Angel will be there at the door…
Jess: ​Angel is a dramatic bore.
Jenny:​ Wow, your mind sure is vicious.
Jess:​ I don’t mean to be malicious…
Jenny:​ Well maybe we could train a bit more!
Jess:​ Yes! We should ​train​ a bit more.


Jenny:​ I’ve got to patrol…
Jess:​ But Buffy, you’ll freeze out there.
Jenny:​ Say, lend me your coat.
Jess:​ It’s 60 degrees out there.
Jenny: ​You really been grand…
Jess: ​Nobody needs a man.
Jenny: ​But don’t you see…
Jess:​ Let’s smash the patriarchy!
Jenny: ​There’s bound to be talk tomorrow.
Jess:​ Have you got leather pants I could borrow?
Jenny:​ At least there will be plenty implied.
Jess:​ No, B, we’ll be five by five.
Jenny: ​I really should slay…
Jess: ​I think you’re patrolled out!
Jenny and Jess: ​Ah, but it’s cold… out… side… !

