Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 6.09: Smashed
[CHIME]
Jenny: Hey, everybody!
Kristin: Hello! Hi, Jenny! Wow—
Jenny: Hi.
Kristin: Back into the swing of things. It has been a mere fourteen days—
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: Since we've last discussed an episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer.
Jenny: Mmm!
Kristin: We've got a quick and dirty intro for you. Actually, it's not—well, it does
include the Sexual Tension Award—
Jenny: Mm, dirty enough!
Kristin: That's pretty dirty. [laughs] Couple of things. One, this Saturday at 2 PM
Eastern, a reminder for our book club members. We will be discussing Leigh
Bardugo's Ninth House. That is for $5 patrons and higher. It also reminded me that
I should read the book. So I'll be doing that this week! [both laugh]
Jenny: Nice.
Kristin: Also, coming around the bend, April 17th at 5 PM Eastern, all of our
patrons are invited to a concert of music played by one Jenny Owen Youngs.
Jenny: [gasps] [sings folkish guitar tune]
Kristin: You're gonna be playing some hot, hot Buffering jams, Jenny?
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Hell yeah. You can learn all about this and all of the events that we have
going on at bufferingthevampireslayer.com. Just click on Events.


Jenny: You know what else you can learn about, right here and right now without
clicking on anything? The winners of last episode's Sexual Tension Awards! [sings
triumphant tune]
Kristin: Yeah, you don't have to click because I have to scroll—do you know how
long I have to scroll every time I have to find the results of these friggin' polls?
[Jenny cackles] Forever! [laughs]
Jenny: Well! You should bookmark the episodic poll. When you post it. Just a
thought.
Kristin: You should bookmark the fucking episodic poll.
Jenny: Oh. Maybe I will. [Kristin laughs] Okay, speaking of me bookmarking
things. In fourth place, with a mere, measly, pathetic 18% of the vote, it's me and
a short, thick TV Guide.
Kristin: [laughs] It's not that bad when you consider the next result.
Jenny: Yeah, honestly? Stiff competition, if you know what I mean, because in
third place—practically unheard of—with 20% of the vote, it's Buffy and Spike. So
almost—me and TV Guide are almost as hot and heavy as Buffy and Spike. Then in
second place—
Kristin: In Tabula Rasa, it should be noted. [laughs]
Jenny: Right, right, right, right. [laughs] In second place, with 26% of the vote,
she's a vengeance demon, he's a Watcher! And neither one of them knows it! It's
Rupey and Anya. Excuse me, Rupey and Ann-ya.
Kristin: Thank you.
Jenny: And in first place. Uh, what we have all been waiting for. [trying not to
laugh] Out-stiffening all the competition with 36% of the vote, it's Randy and
Rupert! Hell yeah!
Kristin: Yeah! My emoji for that one, in case you're not on Twitter, was a peach
emoji followed by a hand emoji. So you're all welcome.
Jenny: Oh my word!


Kristin: Thank you very much. I think when I brought that nomination up into the
feed, Jenny, you were like, "I don't know." And I was like, you just wait! [Jenny
laughs] So thank you for proving me right, the Internet.
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: One more thing before we roll into the episode. I haven't been doing
emails in a couple of episodes, because we've had so much to talk about. I've got
an email to share with you today, Jenny, that I'm pretty excited about. This email is
from Rosie, and it hearkens back to a time in the pod—not that long ago—when we
started talking about clams. There was just a lot of—a lot of, like, mollusk-centric
conversation. I don't know if you remember that time.
Jenny: Sure.
Kristin: Okay, so Rosie writes in recently and says, "I wanted to share with you a
little-known tale about eight heroic clams in Poland."
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: Yeah. Thank you. I couldn't even—I couldn't wait to get into another intro
so I could share this email. "The water quality in Warsaw is monitored by clams. If
the water gets too toxic, they close and this trigger [Jenny gasps] shuts off the
city's water supply—"
Jenny: What?
Kristin: "Automatically. The lives of millions depend on eight small clams working
hard to detect contamination in the city's water supply. I'll say it again for effect—"
Jenny: What?
Kristin: "The lives of millions depend on these eight small clams. Is it a coincidence
that the podcast eventually turned to discussing clams alongside our heroine,
Buffy? I think not."
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: "Polish filmmaker Julia Pelka has directed an incredible documentary called
Fat Kathy about this life saving work of clams. Anyway, I thought it was a nice
connection between Buffy, hero of Sunnydale, and the eight nameless but no less
important heroes of Warsaw!"


Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: Jenny, Rosie sent a picture to us that I'm gonna share with you now. Of
one of these clams.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Is it the clams?
Kristin: Yeah, yeah, yeah. It is.
Jenny: Do they have googly eyes glued onto their shells? [Kristin laughs] Oh my
god, what?! [both laugh]
Kristin: Can you describe to the listeners what you're seeing? [laughs]
Jenny: Okay, picture a clam. It's just sitting, like you would think a clam would be
sitting. And then fastened atop its upper shell is a sproingy spring. [Kristin laughs]
And at the end of the sproingy spring, there's sort of like a short cylinder with a
little dome cap. Which I guess is the sensor, which—when the clam fully closes, it
gets very close to a rod directly under it.
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah.
Jenny: Sending the message to shut off the water supply!
Kristin: No big deal. Just a fucking tale of heroic clams to usher you in—
Jenny: Unbelievable!
Kristin: To this episode.
Jenny: The chosen clams!
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Now that my soul has been nourished by this tale… of eight clams who just
wanted [Kristin laughs] to do the right thing. I must now transition to
straight-facedly, seriously, solemnly inform you that this episode contains
conversations on themes of abusive relationship dynamics. So please, consider
yourself contentedly warned.
Kristin: Alright, let's get into this.


[Buffering theme plays]
Jenny: Hello, and welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast where we
are watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, one by one,
spoiler free, in tandem with Angel On Top. I… am Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: And I am Kristin Russo. And hey, this week, we are talking about Season
6, Episode 9, Smashed. Stay tuned at the end of this podcast every other week for
an original song, written by us, recapping the Buffy episode that we are discussing.
Jenny: Smashed was written by Drew Z. Greenberg, directed by Turi Meyer, and
originally aired on November 20th, 2001.
Kristin: [gasps] Wow. You're not gonna be able to hold that one in.
Jenny: No, no, no, I'm fine.
Kristin: Oh, yeah? You're okay? You're okay with that—
Jenny: Yes! Oh, yes.
Kristin: Proximity to your birthday? It's so—it's just so close! Oh god, okay.
Jenny: No, no, no, it's fine, it's fine, it's fine.
Kristin: Also, is it your 21st?
Jenny: I'm very chill.
Kristin: No, it's your 20th birthday. Okay, so! [laughs] This is the one, according to
TV Guide, where "Spike gets a headache that renews his primal impulses—" I'm
sure we'll have a lot to say about that—"when Buffy rejects his amorous—"
amorous? Is that how you say that word? Amorous?
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: "Amorous advances."
Jenny: Amorous.


Kristin: "Willow reverts a former classmate to her old self." Amy doesn't even get a
name in the TV Guide, rude! "Jonathan—"
Jenny: Well, 'cause it's spoilers!
Kristin: I mean. Okay, fine. "Jonathan, Warren and Andrew pull a heist with the
help of a new weapon." Wow. Wow, tonight at 8. I don't even know if that's the
time that this show aired. I should probably know that, shouldn't I?
Jenny: Um...this Previously On has gotta be second for most episodes included,
after the finale of Season 5, which of course had a moment from—
Kristin: Every episode?
Jenny: Every episode of the entire series.
Kristin: I mean, to—like, it hits hot with Amy. Just like, there's nothing before
Amy. Like, you're like, wait, what? Where? Who?
Jenny: Whomst?
Kristin: Whomst among us? Oh, right. That rat that Willow has just gleefully kept
in a fucking cage for seasons upon season. Also, we get, like, a clip from Spike and
Warren, back when the Buffybot was created. Which is, like—you know, if you don't
know what the episode's gonna be, I think you're also thinking, like, is the Buffybot
gonna come back into play? Like, is there gonna be—
Jenny: Is there an Amybot?
Kristin: Is there an Amybot? A rat bot?
Jenny: Piloted by a tiny rat [Kristin laughs] who has, like, a little cockpit inside the
skull? I hope?
Kristin: Ooh! And then we get the Trio—
Jenny: That's my episode.
Kristin: Remember the Trio? Like, who are they? We haven't seen them—
Jenny: Barely. Whomst?


Kristin: In what feels like years. And then of course, a reminder that Giles has left.
Fuck that. And a reminder that Spike and Buffy kissed again.
Jenny: Ooooh!
Kristin: Buffy's really into some fucking braids. It's like a marker. Like, if you, like,
emotionally track Buffy's hair, I think braids is a very particular… point in time, in
her journey.
Jenny: Mm. Mmm.
Kristin: She's got these two—two very tight braids in this scene and in the few that
follow. And she also—and if anyone wants to explain this to me. Because like, I am
a girl with hair that is—had been braided, but I have never put a clip in the middle
of the part on the back of my head. And there is just a clip in the middle of the back
of her head. So please email me specifically—[laughs]
Jenny: Hmm.
Kristin: At bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com and tell me why, if you know
why. Why is there a clip on the back of Buffy's head for these braids?
Jenny: I didn't see it. I don't acknowledge it. [Kristin laughs] Do not email me
about it. [Kristin laughs] Here's something we haven't seen ever or in a while.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Some good old fashioned mugging!
Kristin: A good old fashioned mugging. Hey! Do you think that, like, the crime—do
you think they count the crime the same? Like, demon crime and human crime, in
the Sunnydale crime roster? Like, will this go in the same column as, like, a
vampire bite for crime? Or is it, like—or like, do the Sunnydale police write "good
old fashioned mugging" and put, like, one dash next to that tally column. [both
laugh]
Jenny: Yeah, they put that in an otherwise empty—
Kristin: [laughing] Yeah.
Jenny: Cavernous filing cabinet for human crime.


Kristin: So this scene—this scene sets us up, just like, a reminder that Spike has a
chip. You know, like, we can't focus on it all the time—
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: And so these human people are mugging these other human people. Spike
doesn't know, he comes flying over whatever fucking pile of bricks is in the alley.
And punches what he thinks to be demons, screaming out in pain, of course,
because the chip is there. [laughs] Buffy refers to him as Jessica Fletcher. In case
you're wondering who that is—
Jenny: Whomst?
Kristin: Whomst? Do you not know, Jenny? Did you not look up Jessica Fletcher?
Jenny: Mm-mm. I didn't.
Kristin: Jessica Fletcher is the name of Angela Lansbury's character in Murder She
Wrote, everyone.
Jenny: Oh, wow! [laughs]
Kristin: A delightful—love to have Buffy refer to Spike—
Jenny: [simultaneously] Wow, calling Spike, like, "Angela Lansbury" [Kristin
laughs] really, really works for me. [both laugh]
Kristin: Yeah! It's pretty good. [both laugh]
Jenny: Oh, wow, yeah. Mmhmm. Mmhmm. Spike, with his beautiful Spike logic,
suggests that, you know, it's silly that this implanted chip doesn't let him bite
criminals. And let me tell you what I would like to never be the case: for a chip
implanted in someone's head, by the government—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: To determine who counts as a criminal. Let's just avoid that.
Kristin: Ooh, hot. Hot, yes.
Jenny: Entirely, entirely.


Kristin: Great idea—great point. Solid point. Yes. And this just, in general—I mean,
a better point than the one I had to make. But just in general, like, you know, the
idea that like, well, if Spike can only bite bad people and not good people, it's
very—this whole episode, right, especially—and I know. I know. We're gonna try
our best to unpack so much in this episode. But Buffy sort of saying to Spike, like,
you are an evil monster. You are this, you are that. It's like, we're kind of—I know
that they are working through things personally. That this, like, criminal—
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: Not a criminal, vampire, not a vampire—
Jenny: This is—this is just...
Kristin: We're in Season 6, people! This is not—
Jenny: Well—
Kristin: We are not—we know that no vampire is but a vampire. No criminal is but
a criminal. We have—grade overall of that.
Jenny: All this "you're an evil dead thing" is just classic [Kristin laughs] repressed
romantic vampire/Slayer shin-kicking on the playground. [Kristin laughs] That is
what's going on.
Kristin: [laughs] Okay, so. Spike is like, yo, there's other ways to get your rocks
off. [laughs] A lot of—
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: A lot of innuendo in this episode and, uh—
Jenny: He wants to jump right to the kissing, but then takes a quick detour to
Being a Real Piece of Shitsville!
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah. "You're a tease," he says. And then the line—the line,
like—you know, this whole relationship is, as you may have guessed, really fucking
problematic, in a million ways. We are going to dig into it—
Jenny: Hm!


Kristin: In so many ways this season. We're gonna have special episodes,
whatever. It's a toxic dynamic and I think, like, it's really important to note the
mom—because some of these moments are really confusing to navigate. Because
they are a Slayer and a vampire. They both have superhuman strength. There's
been metaphors in the show already with fighting and fucking. So like, I just want
to, like, at this stage, really try to point out the things that are clearly out of the
relationship of vampire and Slayer, clearly a signal of bad news.
Jenny: Mm.
Kristin: And one of them is in this scene, at the end, when Spike says to Buffy,
"You've got no one else." That—
Jenny: [makes grossed-out noises]
Kristin: That is abuser—that's abuser language. That's abuser language. And that
is the moment. It's not the—you know, the tease thing is fucked up. We could play
the Patriarchy jingle, but I wanna save it for later. [laughs] The—you know, all
this—there's stuff. But that moment, I think, is the one deserving of the most
attention in this scene, because it's fucked up. And sometimes I wonder, like, how
this episode would have ended if Spike did not show up in that way. Like, what
would have happened if Spike did not use this really horrible language toward
Buffy? Like, would—because it's—there is no denying that there is some attraction
and connection here. [laughs] Right?
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm, mmhmm, mmhmm!
Kristin: But the problem right now is that Spike is manipulating Buffy's journey and
Buffy's mental state to—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Get her to where he would like her to be. And that's fucked up. And it's not
that she wouldn't even necessarily get there anyway. She might. But like, this is
not the fucking way, dude. Alright.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah. Elsewhere in You've Got No One Land, Willow checks in on Rat
Amy for the first time in, dot-dot-dot?
Kristin: Seriously.
Jenny: Who knows how long?


Kristin: Like, Willow… now? Like, now that Tara has left Willow, she's like, "well,
maybe I can find a spell!" [both laugh] Come on!
Jenny: The unchecked power of just doing a spell to bring yourself the spell that
you need to do. [both laugh]
Kristin: [laughing] Yeah!
Jenny: Blegh! [both laugh] It's just spells all the way down, Kristin. Also, I think
it's worth noting, you know, Willow's doing her little bit. And she's all like, "We
should get you a nice companion rat that you can love and grow attached to and
then one day, they can leave you for no good reason." Clearly framing that Willow
is still—
Kristin: [simultaneously] Yeah. Yeah. That's a good point.
Jenny: In the mindset that Tara left for no good reason.
Kristin: Yeah, that's a great fucking point, actually. I missed that because I was
over here, busy being like, why didn't you get her a companion rat, you fucking
assholes? [laughs]
Jenny: Also that, but also then imagine if what's about to happen happened and
then we all had to know, Willow especially, that she allowed Amy and another rat to
potentially bone.
Kristin: Okay, yeah, fair.
Jenny: How you come back from that?
Kristin: Yeah, you—yeah, that's true. [laughing] That's true, that's a good point.
Amy—
Jenny: She's already having a hard time. [laughs]
Kristin: Amy is in human form, not for the first time, we will note. Right? There
was that one hilarious moment—hilarious for everyone but Amy—where she was
turned back into Amy and then immediately—
Jenny: Yeah.


Kristin: Back into a rat again. But this time, she's here—
Jenny: A very brief moment in Something Blue, back in Season 4. That was when
that brief transformation took place.
Kristin: Ah, lovely, lovely. You pulled that from your little archives over there. Flip,
flip, flip—
Jenny: That's right.
Kristin: She went through her notes.
Jenny: Flip-flip-flip-flip-flip!
Kristin: Amy is naked on the bed and this pre-credits scene ends with her
screaming, very loudly. Because—
Jenny: Fair.
Kristin: She just fucking transformed from a rat to a person. And she's sitting—I
mean, she's gonna have—listen. Sorry to say it, but she's gonna have some serious
doily prints on her butt. 'Cause that bedspread… [both laugh] that bedspread—this
is where, like—Buffy was borrowing Joyce's pillowcase back in Seasons 1 and 2, I
think. Because this doily bedspread matches those doily pillowcases, big time.
Credits!
Jenny: We got some credits. And then we come back in on…
Kristin: [starts singing spy tune]
Jenny: One of the most… [Kristin stops singing] unfortunate things to look—we
look back on a lot of problematic things in this show, from the late 90s and early
2000s. But you know what really hurts? [Kristin laughs] Not in a, you know, cultural
way, but just in a "we were all there and we let this happen" kind of way. The
backwards golf cap! [Kristin laughs] Noooo!
Kristin: Andrew? [laughs]
Jenny: I did it! You did it! We all did it and we're all ashamed! We have to live with
this for the rest of our lives! This Jason [sic] Gordon Levitt on Third Rock from the
Sun shit!


Kristin: [laughs] Andrew is, like, repelling from the ceiling of the Sunnydale
museum, in—
Jenny: [starts singing spy tune]
Kristin: As Jenny has so beautifully described, a backwards golf cap. [Jenny sings a
little more intensely] The thing that takes his… [laughs at Jenny] the thing that
takes his backwards golf cap [Jenny stops] over the top, Jenny, is that he has
spent—
Jenny: [singing] Ba-da!
Kristin: At least four hours pulling each—
Jenny: On the—on the—
Kristin: Wisps!
Jenny: Spikes—on the bang spikes? Peep-peep-peep! [laughs]
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah. He has—he's spiked his little blonde bangs over the brim of
the back of this hat. It is—I can't. I love Andrew so much. I love him so much. He
has, for absolutely no reason at all, done this. He wants to be—it's very, you know,
Mission Impossible. [laughing] I've never seen Mission Impossible, but that's
another story for another day.
Jenny: Uh-huh, uh-huh.
Kristin: But I know that this is a play on Mission Impossible. Jonathan and Warren
are already in the museum. And they are stealing a diamond. They can't—Jonathan
and Andrew can't be the ones to burn a hole in the glass and take this diamond,
because Jonathan [Jenny laughs] is allergic to methane. And Andrew is afraid of hot
things.
Jenny: Plus, whenever either one of them put the canister backpack on, [Kristin
laughs] it made them tip over. How is Warren—how is Warren the butch boy?
[Kristin laughs] In a trio? You know what I mean?
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: How is he the tough guy?


Kristin: Well, I mean—well, I don't know that he is the tough guy. He just happens
to be the heftiest of the guys. [laughs]
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: He can support—the idea of them tipping over with the methane tank on
their backs reminds me of, like, a baby Dachshund. You know, like, when like,
Dachshund puppies are really little, their heads—[Jenny laughs] their legs are so
short that their heads sort of, like—will weigh the front of them down and their little
back legs will go up. It's great. Anyway. [laughs]
Jenny: What?!
Kristin: It's true. It's true.
Jenny: I have some Youtubing to do, if you'll excuse me.
Kristin: So. Rusty, the—Rusty the trusty guard at the Sunnydale museum—
Jenny: Mm.
Kristin: Comes out and he's like, "Boys, what are you doing here?" [laughs] And
like, listen. Some of the comedy is just—it works for me. It works for old Kristin.
Jenny: Mmm!
Kristin: Fucking Warren being like, "We gotta freeze-ray outta here! [Jenny laughs]
We're part of the freeze-ray group." It, like—the delivery is good. The joke works
for me. I like it.
Jenny: It is effective. It is appropriate for these goons.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: When Jonathan and Andrew finally get the picture, they then freeze the
fuck out of Rusty.
Kristin: They do.
Jenny: He's a Rust-sicle.


Kristin: [laughs] Sounds like Rusty's gonna make it because of the hair dryers
employed by the professionals at the Sunnydale hospital later.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: But definitely they're playing with life and death here. You know, they're
really, uh… I don't think that anyone was super concerned about what Rusty's fate
would be. Jonathan's hand is frozen to the freeze-ray gun 'cause this is a prototype.
And we cut back to the Summers bedroom [laughing] where we get—
Jenny: So twitchy.
Kristin: Oh my god. It's truly so great. Fucking Amy is like, so prom? Like, at least
I've made it back for prom.
Jenny: In time for prom.
Kristin: [laughs] And we're like, Amy. Since prom, there's been a pandemic—we've
been through a lot since prom, Amy! [both laugh] Willow—Willow says—like, "I
have a few things to tell you." She says—'cause Amy wants to go with Larry.
Remember Larry?
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: RIP Larry. Willow's—
Jenny: Now there's a guy that some methane canister backpacks could not tip
over.
Kristin: Seriously! He could put fucking three of those methane tanks on his back.
Jenny: He could put the whole Trio on his back and not tip over.
Kristin: [laughs] With their methane tank. "Larry is gay. Larry is dead. And high
school—"
Jenny: RIP.
Kristin: "Is kinda over." So Amy has a lot to adjust to.
Jenny: Yeah.


Kristin: And—
Jenny: Also, worth noting that as she's sitting and twitching and whatnot, she's
doing some very, like, reflex-based magic. Closing the window when there's a loud
noise outside—
Kristin: Yes, yes.
Jenny: Closing the curtains with just the flick of a wrist. Which makes me wonder,
like, what's been going on for the last couple years while she's been a rat?
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Has she just been… powering up in some way, but unable to… you know,
like—it's like—
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Compound interest. Is there compounding interest on magical ability,
especially if it goes unused?
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Are you just—once you open that can of worms, does that can of worms
just keep multiplying and getting stronger?
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Some strong worms?
Kristin: Yeah, yeah, yeah. I see what you're saying. And like, why couldn't
she—like, are there magic rats? Another question. You know what I mean? Can rats
do spells? Apparently not Amy, but like, why? Is it—is the—is the size of the cells in
your being—do rats have cells that are smaller than human cells? I gotta go.
[laughs]
Jenny: Well, I'm gonna guess that it has more to do with, um… hand movement—
Kristin: [simultaneously] Oh my god, if you could see the way that [laughing]
Jenny just moved her hand.


Jenny: I was doing my magic hands. [Kristin laughs hard] This is yet another—yet
another variation on a theme. You've got—
Kristin: Swivel mittens.
Jenny: Jazz hands. You've got spirit fingers. You've got swivel mittens, and then
you've got magic hands. Magic hands kind of move in a very fluid, sort of
figure-8—horizontal infinity sign kind of deal. Just trust me.
Kristin: Moving back to the bedroom. Willow—Willow's bedroom, I guess, now?
Since Tara is gone. Buffy comes in. Amy is in the bathroom. She doesn't know that,
of course. Buffy is—sits down and is about to tell Willow about what's been going
with Spike. Oh, if it were to have happened! Oh, if communication were to have
happened. Where would this show go if—
Jenny: Get these people into therapy—
Kristin: I mean—
Jenny: And then let them talk to each other and we wouldn't have a show
anymore.
Kristin: Like, if Buffy and Willow could have just had this conversation. You know?
Just, fucking—as LaToya would say, write it in your Shanshu prophecies. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah. This is how—for the record, this is how I approach a difficult
conversation. From as far away as possible.
Kristin: Ugh.
Jenny: You know how we all make choices… of varying quality? In the beginning—
Kristin: Mmm. [laughs]
Jenny: God or whomstever created the earth.
Kristin: This is Jenny confessing her—this is literally how you approach talking
about your feelings. It truly is.
Jenny: Yeah. It is and so I respect Buffy's approach here. It's hard—you gotta just
work up your momentum, you know? You gotta get there in your own time. And it's
tough, but there's no time for that right now because in sweeps Amy.


Kristin: In sweeps Amy and let's bring in our first sound clip here, because this
might be one of the best exchanges of the series, in my opinion. [laughs]
[Clip from episode plays]
Buffy: Amy?
Amy: The whole school? By a giant snake thing. 'Kay, still adjusting. Hey,
Buffy.
Buffy: Hi. [pause] How've you been?
Amy: Rat. You?
Buffy: Dead.
Amy: Oh.
Kristin: "Oh." [laughs] Oh. Okay. Well, I mean, it's a good summary, you know?
They both are succinct, clearly explaining—
Jenny: Yep.
Kristin: What they have been up to. And Amy wants some cookies.
Jenny: [exhales] Yes. She does. She's got her priorities straight. She's gonna sleep
on the couch. Willow—after Amy leaves the room, Willow tells Buffy, "It's nice
having another magically-inclined friend around."
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Aaaaahhhhhhh!
Kristin: Can you explain your scream?
Jenny: Just, like, everyone's total—well, Buffy in particular. Like, Buffy's deep
unawareness of what is going on.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: You know?


Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Because she is understandably consumed with, you know, having recently
been return—ripped out of heaven and returned to the mortal plane. And also
feeling a hot, sweaty attraction [Kristin laughs] to an evil dead thing. I get it. I get
it. But this is kinda Buffy's thing. She is pretty consistently consumed with her own
shit and missing other people's stuff. And I think what we see through this episode
is her making excuses—
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: In her mind for Willow, because—
Kristin: Because…
Jenny: Of her own experience, because she wants to make those excuses for
herself.
Kristin: A thousand percent. A thousand percent.
Jenny: So when Willow says "it's nice having another magically-inclined friend
around" and that doesn't set off one single alarm for Buffy, it's like, [groans]—
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah.
Jenny: Buffy…
Kristin: Totally. I also—to the point of, like, her being, you know, ripped out of
heaven and what have you. I thought it was really interesting that Buffy was like,
"Is she gonna be okay?" about Amy. And like, Willow was like, "I don't know, I
guess we'll see." [laughing] I'm like, does it—[stammers and laughs]
perhaps—okay. We don't wanna talk about this for—[Jenny laughs] okay. So down
to the living room Buffy goes. Amy is eating what really do look to be incredible
cookies. They look delicious.
Jenny: They look incredible. There's so many. There's so many on that plate.
Kristin: [simultaneously] I mean, she hasn't eaten anything but cheese, it sounds
like, in a long time.


Jenny: Buffy and Amy are running down some things that are different since she
was a rat. And Buffy mentions that there is a new Gatorade flavor, which she
identifies as Blue. I did a little—
Kristin: Oh my god, I did research too.
Jenny: Gatorade research.
Kristin: Goddamnit, I was gonna quiz you! [laughs]
Jenny: Okay, I would actually love—'cause I didn't get definitive answers that lined
up with this timeline. I would love to take your quiz, right now.
Kristin: Okay, okay, okay. So first of all—first of all. Before we get—Jenny and I
are gonna do a Gatorade deep dive. It looks like we both—
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: We both knew what in this episode required research [laughs]—
Jenny: That's right.
Kristin: And it was blue fucking Gatorade. But I do—
Jenny: That's right.
Kristin: I do wanna point out that the first thing that Amy says to Buffy is, "I'm
sorry about your mom." Which I think is just, like, really—
Jenny: Oh, yeah!
Kristin: Like, they don't go right into this, like, jokes about, you know, Tom and
Nicole and Gatorade and stuff. You know, like, there is this moment of like, there
was a loss here. Like, a very serious loss, which I really love. Okay, so. First of all,
my first question about Gatorade, Jenny, is—
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Do you know when Gatorade hit the scene? Like, when it was invented?
You may have found this out in your research, which is bumming me out. But—and
listeners at home—


Jenny: Uh, I skipped ahead in the Wikipedia article, past like all the origin story
stuff. But if I—I think I remember, uh, a Floridian college team—
Kristin: Correct.
Jenny: The Gators—
Kristin: Correct.
Jenny: Of somewhere.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Uh, their mix—their team mixologist [Kristin laughs] came up with
something—
Kristin: Uh-huh?
Jenny: A combination of water, sugar and salt to replace the electrolytes that are
being sweated out in an average game of football.
Kristin: [simultaneously] And do you have, like, a—
Jenny: How did I do?
Kristin: No, you did pretty good. I didn't even know all the chemical details there
that you just listed. But I wonder, like, in the timeline, in history—
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: Where you think this was.
Jenny: Okay. I'm picturing men wearing pants that go, like, [Kristin laughs] all the
way up to the bottom of their ribcage. So I'm gonna say, 50s.
Kristin: Okay. Well.
Jenny: How did I do?
Kristin: Uh, I'm curious of how you did on pants going up to the ribcage in the 50s,
'cause I thought that would be the 70s. But it was the—


Jenny: No, not bell bottoms going all the way up. Just like, you know. [Kristin
laughs] Men wearing, like… high-waisted pants and short top—okay.
Kristin: Jenny and I are gonna do—
Jenny: Hit me.
Kristin: A special bonus podcast where we talk about men's pants and Gatorade.
[Jenny laughs] Uh, 1966 is when Gatorade hit the scene.
Jenny: Alright!
Kristin: Now, there's—
Jenny: Alright.
Kristin: You were correct about conflicting information. I found three—a minimum
of three blue Gatorade flavors.
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: And I found—the first thing that I read said that 2001 was when Frost High
Tide hit the scene. It was blue. But then—no?
Jenny: Ah-ah-ah! 1997—
Kristin: Correct!
Jenny: Arctic Frost. Yes?
Kristin: Glacier Freeze, I believe, is what I saw.
Jenny: Mmm…
Kristin: That's what I'm saying.
Jenny: Oh, wait, am I thinking of Alpine Frost?
Kristin: You are. I think it's Glacier Freeze, '97, is the first blue Gatorade, which
still kind of works in the—well, no. Because—yeah, it still works on the timeline
because—


Jenny: No, because she was—
Kristin: She was gone—
Jenny: Mm-mm! She… Gingerbread is '99. [Kristin gasps] So she was turned into a
rat in 1999.
Kristin: Okay, so—yeah, so there was already blue Gatorade, as of '97. But this
2001 thing is weird and then Cool Blue, which is the blue Gatorade that I think a lot
of people know about, that didn't come out until, according to this one article,
2003. It wasn't even—Cool Blue isn't even in the Wikipedia. It's not even in the
Wikipedia. So right now, you can get Cool Blue and Glacier Freeze. Those flavors
are available for purchase. Frost High Tide is this 2001 thing that I saw in an
article, it's not in the Wiki. Listen, just—somebody go to your local library, get out
the microfiche. You know what I mean? This is gonna require some—
Jenny: Mm!
Kristin: Detective work.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: I would like a full report on my desk by morning. [laughs] History of blue
Gatorade, go! [both laugh] Alright, well. At least we know, Jenny, that—you know,
like, as two hosts of a podcast, we hold, um… respect for—
Jenny: Great power and great responsibility.
Kristin: Yeah, we know what requires our skills. So. [laughs] Anyway.
Jenny: You know what's—you know what's really been grinding my gears lately?
Kristin: [laughs] What?
Jenny: People on television getting a call to turn on the news, alerting them that
something pertinent to their interests is about to be on. You know what I mean? I
realize that's not exactly what's going on here. Amy is saying, yeah, someone got
frozen. It's one of the many things I've taken in while I've been sitting here,
watching TV. And as it so happens, they're about to repeat what I've already taken
in, right now, just as this happens to come up in conversation. [Kristin laughs] It's
more egregious when someone calls Coach Taylor and is like, Coach Taylor, you
gotta turn on fucking—


Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: Dylan 7. Uh…
Kristin: Coach Taylor? You rewatching Friday Night Lights?
Jenny: And then Coach Taylor turns on the TV and it's like, "whoa, we got these
reports that Coach Taylor is considering an offer from, uh, [Kristin laughs] Southern
California State." And Coach Taylor's like, "how did you know that was about to
happen?" So what, they're just rep—every news story is like, I'm gonna say this
now and then I'm gonna say it again in 45 seconds. So call whoever you need to let
know about it.
Kristin: Well. I mean, to be fair, having watched the news occasionally, they do
repeat things. [Jenny makes a long, drawn-out doubtful noise] It's not like—it's not
like—okay. Well, needless to say, they're very interested in the frozen man at the
museum because—
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Not only does Buffy see that frozen man on the news, but she has time
enough to get to the museum, with the news crew still there, reporting. He hasn't
even been wheeled out of the—
Jenny: [makes camera clicking noises] Yeah. Yeah.
Kristin: Hasn't even been removed yet.
Jenny: How are you gonna—how are you gonna wheel out this man, this frozen
man, [Kristin laughs] on a dolly in front of everyone?
Kristin: Also, like, does anyone know about what happens to a frozen man if he
falls off that dolly? That's it for him!
Jenny: Also, you gonna tell me that this museum doesn't have a loading dock in
the back—
Kristin: Thank you.
Jenny: With, like, a ramp?


Kristin: Agree, agree, agree.
Jenny: Come on now. Come on.
Kristin: He should be strapped to that fucking dolly, at the very least, and he
should be going out the back door. Let—[laughing] we need to go to Sunnydale and
advise—
Jenny: Please.
Kristin: The media and the paramedics on how to handle things.
Jenny: We can help.
Kristin: So Spike. [laughs] Spike's on the scene. Buffy—
Jenny: [simultaneously, gasps] [singing] "Detective Spike!" [Kristin laughs] He's
there with his magnifying glass and his little notepad. His trenchcoat.
Kristin: Like, he—like, we are to believe that he is there just because he thinks
Buffy is gonna be there? It is weird that he's there, because why?
Jenny: Classic Spike.
Kristin: A little compassion—
Jenny: Yo! You have a crush on somebody and you're a creep? You go to where
you think they're gonna be.
Kristin: True, true.
Jenny: Just hang about. [laughs]
Kristin: So Buffy takes what is probably a healthy step in communication.
She—because up till now, she's just been like, "I'm not talking about it." Right?
Which, like, technically is also not, like, a healthy response. Like, this thing
happened and the adult, mature, grown-up thing to do is to have a conversation
about, like, why it happened, what you want, et cetera. So she does that, right?
"I'm sorry if you thought that the kiss meant more." [laughs] She unfortunately
phrases it that when she kissed Spike, she was thinking of Giles.
Jenny: [rolling tongue] Blegh!


Kristin: Giving us all a moment of, huh? But she goes on to explain, you know,
Giles left, I was depressed. I was vulnerable and in that spot, you make bad kissing
decisions. And I made a bad decision and, like, that's what it was. Now, we all know
perhaps there's more going on here. We'll talk about it, but I just wanna give Buffy
some credit for, like, maturely discussing. And Spike gets another demerit, because
he says, "Did you convince yourself that that's what this is?" And like, here's the
thing. Even if Spike believes there to be something else going on, that is not what
you say to the girl—
Jenny: No, no, no.
Kristin: Who just explained to you what she needs, what she wants, and why she
did what she did. No thank you, sir.
Jenny: Clearly the only path open to them is to exchange punches!
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah. Ugh, well, and Buffy goes for the jugular, so to speak.
"You're not a man, you're a thing."
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: She knows what is gonna, you know, hurt Spike, and that does. And he
grabs her. Not cool. She hits him. He hits her, realizing, holy fuck. That didn't hurt
me.
Jenny: Dun-dun-dunnnn! So what can Spike do but of course immediately locate a
human woman to terrorize and monologue at?
Kristin: Well—but it should be noted that Spike fakes a scream. Like, Buffy does
not realize in this moment that it hasn't hurt him. He has the wherewithal to be
like, uh, let me just see what's going on here before I give up the goods.
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: And yes, then, as he says, he's "looking at the goodies."
Jenny: So he's just, like, twirling his mustache. [Kristin laughs] And he's all like,
muah-muah-muah, I'm going to eat you! [Kristin laughs] And I'll show her, now
things are different! And ah, here we go!
Kristin: "I smell fear." [both laugh]


Jenny: "It smells good!" [both laugh] Oh, yeah, just some… A-plus writing. Um,
yeah, so he goes in for the slurp. But—
Kristin: The chomp.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, a little chomp and slurp. But alas! Here comes some shrieking
and it's not this mortal woman's. It is the neurological pain-induced shrieking of one
William the Bloody, quote, Spike, end quote… we don't know his last name.
Kristin: Yeah. [laughs] Yeah, and before he attempts this chomp, he has this, like,
classic villain moment. Where he's, like, working through his psychological stuff
with his, uh, potential victim, you know? "Just because she's confused doesn't
mean I'm confused. I know what I am."
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: "I'm dangerous. I'm evil." And I point that out because I—I do think it's
interesting that one of the things they're setting us up with—and they have set us
up with—is that Buffy and Spike really occupy similar spaces in some ways. And
this is it. This is, like, the biggest way, right? Spike is a vampire. He feels his nature
is supposed to be evil, he's supposed to be killing people, he's whatever. He has a
chip in his head, he can't do that. And he's fallen in love with the Slayer, and he has
feelings for her. And as we see in this episode, even if he could kill her, he sure the
fuck isn't gonna kill her. So he is like, I don't understand. Like, I'm supposed to be
evil but I don't feel evil. And it's not—it seems like it's past just the chip, right?
And on the flip side, Buffy is like, I'm the Slayer, I'm supposed to be good, I'm
supposed to be this, I'm supposed to be whatever. But she's not feeling those
things. She's feeling attracted to Spike and she's feeling unmotivated and she's
feeling like she doesn't wanna fucking do this shit and what is the point of life? And
so they're both in this place where, like, their image of who they thought they were
isn't reconciling with who they are right now, and they're both confused. And Spike
is trying to pretend like he's not in this moment, but I just think that it illustrates
that really nicely.
Jenny: Mmhmm… mmhmm.
Kristin: You wanna have a milkshake?
Jenny: No. [Kristin laughs] I wanna fast-forward through this scene. [laughs
uncomfortably]


Kristin: Oh, I know. It's—but this is important though. Tara and Dawn. I mean…
[laughs] well, why do you wanna fast-forward through this scene, Jenny? Just
because you don't like milkshakes?
Jenny: I just—I don't know if it's the performances or the writing. It—like, it just
feels like a swing and a miss to me. Like, I understand why it's there and I think
there's just something lost in the execution where this scene just, like, really lands
with a clank—
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: To me.
Kristin: It's almost like the writers have an easier time writing unhealthy dialogue
than [laughing] they do writing healthy dialogue!
Jenny: Hell yeah. Oh, this is the equivalent of trying to write a happy song. I see
what's going on here. [both laugh]
Kristin: I mean, 'cause that's what this is. It's like, Tara is the only character that
we see who is making an effort to be present in ways that are healthy. [laughs]
She's taken—
Jenny: Dude.
Kristin: Dawn out. She's saying that she loves her, she didn't leave because of
anything having to do with Dawn. These are—like, these are the things that people
should be saying to Dawn and each other, and no one is. And I agree with you, it
doesn't—it, like, almost feels like this weird off scene. And I think it's because, um…
yeah. I think it's because of what we were just saying. That, like, it's easier to write
conflict for many people than it is to write the opposite of that. I think that that's
less and less the case, but I think that where we were in this time period and in a
show like this that was hinging [laughing]—especially at this point—on like, Spike
and Buffy fucking a house down.
Jenny: Mm!
Kristin: They wanted to get through this scene and move along, is what it feels
like. So… let's.


Jenny: Yeah. Just wanna point out really quickly that Dawn tells Tara that Willow
has been—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: "Really good about being careful about stuff."
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Which feels like a very long way of not saying anything at all.
Kristin: Yeah, yeah. Yeah, well, right. I mean, I think it's just really indicating that
Dawn knows what the issue is, but Dawn doesn't know that the solution lies outside
of just bringing Tara back. You know?
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: She just wants to put that band-aid over it. And I mean, that's what Willow
wants too so you can't really fault Dawn for it. Alright, first of all, why the fuck has
Giles taken a goddamn text that they need overseas 'cause he owns it? What's this
man doing? What's he—what's he fucking doing? You know what I mean? He didn't
need to leave in the first place, now he's taking books with him? [laughs]
Jenny: Well. Just to be fair, it was his book. [laughs] As Anya—
Kristin: What does he need the book for? They're on the Hellmouth!
Jenny: Well… what's he doing over there?
Kristin: Like, right. What is he doing?
Jenny: An independent study? Maybe?
Kristin: Ugh, independent study. Maybe Olivia really wanted to, like, read the book
aloud to him. Maybe it was their special book. Together. [laughs]
Jenny: Uhhh… boing-ng-ng! Speaking of landing with a thud. [both laugh]
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Here comes the world's—history's thickest laptop. Ka-chunk! [laughs]


Kristin: I had this laptop, and it is that heavy. It's just fucking—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Like, a white brick.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: They think that she's going to use the computer. She does, but she uses it
by channeling magic through it to absorb—
Jenny: Yeeegh!
Kristin: Information about what's going on. [laughs] Anya has a great quip. When
they find out that there's a diamond that's been stolen, Anya says, "Diamonds are
excellent at cursing." Which I thought—[laughs] special—
Jenny: Hell yeah.
Kristin: Given her history.
Jenny: File that away for future use.
Kristin: Yeah. And given her history as a vengeance demon and, you know—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: It's good, it's good. Okay, so they're all, like, walking on eggshells around
Willow's use of magic. Except… for Anya, who says—
[Clip from episode plays]
Anya: Oh, for crying out loud. This is bizarre. You're all "la-la-la!" with the
magic and the not talking, like everything's normal, when we all know that
Tara up and left you and now everyone's scared to say anything to you.
[pause] Except me. Is this that thing I do that you were commenting on?
[both laugh]
Jenny: I scream! [Kristin laughs] "Is this that thing I do that you were commenting
on?" That delivery. So sick.


Kristin: Ugh, it makes me wish—
Jenny: Standing ovash [short for "ovation"].
Kristin: It makes me wish and want for a scene between Anya and Cordelia now.
Like, right now. Like, in the timeline, now, can they hang out and have, like, a glass
of rosé together? Like, give it to me!
Jenny: Oh my god. Please!
Kristin: Please. You know, I think that Anya just earned herself her fucking jingle,
I'll tell you what.
[ANYA jingle plays]
[cash register rings]
She spent one millennium, demonically vengeancin'
Speaks her mind and then some, you know
She's partial to the finer things
And down with double boyfriends, oh yeah
Exchanging cash for goods and also services
She'd love to hold the money for ya (she'll hold that cash)
Just keep the bunnies far from… Anya!
Kristin: Well. Um. Great. Good job, Anya. Willow makes a really unfortunate
comment about Amy—always thinking about Amy doing rat things while she's
alone. Perhaps leaving, she says, "little pellets in the corner." Guys!
Jenny: [rolling tongue] Blegh!
Kristin: Let's go to the lair. Let's go to the Trio's—
Jenny: [simultaneously] See, now—
Kristin: Speaking of pellets in the corner—
Jenny: Wait, wait. Wait.
Kristin: [laughs] Okay.
Jenny: Before we go—gross. [Kristin laughs] Before we do that, it's important, I
think, to point out one more time that Willow's response to what Anya says—


Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Just a little bit from the Willow Rosenberg spin room. "Oh, you know, there
were just, like, little things that we saw differently that got blown out of
proportion."
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Okay!
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Okay, Willow!
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Alright. Moving on.
Kristin: Alright. So to the lair we go. I've decided to call their lair a lair. They call it
a lair, so fine. It's a basement, but we'll call it a lair. [both laugh] "Size is
everything!" says Warren, looking adoringly at this diamond. And before they can
get too wrapped up in the beauty that is this diamond that they've stolen, Spike
busts the fuck on in.
Jenny: Ding-dong! It's Spike.
Kristin: [laughs] How can he get in here? Has he been in here before?
Jenny: He's been here before. Warren's mom let him in previously when he
brought his little—
Kristin: [laughing] Oh, right.
Jenny: Buffybot order.
Kristin: Right. I forgot it was the basement of that house. Correct, okay.
Jenny: Mmhmm!
Kristin: So Spike is like, Warren, look at my fucking chip. And they're like, no. And
then he picks up Boba Fett. [both laugh] The figurine. I mean, you gotta hand
it—well, like, Spike deserves credit here. Like, he's very adaptable, you know?


Jenny: Yeah. Yes.
Kristin: He knows that certain threats work better—
Jenny: Quick learner.
Kristin: On certain people.
Jenny: Listen, the way that he backs Warren up and, like, leans over him with his,
like, arm up?
Kristin: Uh-huh!
Jenny: I'm just saying.
Kristin: I—yeah.
Jenny: I think it speaks for itself.
Kristin: I think it speaks for itself too. And I think it—further to it, the scene that
happens when Warren is examining Spike's head. You know what I mean? There's
just a… these two guys, you know—
Jenny: Mmm! An intimacy!
Kristin: They could get up to some stuff, is all I'm saying.
Jenny: Ohh!
Kristin: And I think you're saying it as well. I think—you know, I think…
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Andrew—Andrew's like, "I think that's Spike." [laughs] Which just killed
me. [Jenny laughs] I'm like, is there, like, a—was there a rumor around Sunnydale
High about Spike—like, what—where did he get his knowledge of Spike from?
Jenny: Well, he did come to, like, parent teacher night that one time.


Kristin: [laughs] That's true! Aw, when Joyce had the ax? Okay. Yes. He—Warren,
poor logic here, thinking, well, Spike'll owe us one if I help him with the chip, dude.
And Spike says it himself—
Jenny: Ohh, Warren. You sweet summer child!
Kristin: Yeah, like, no, dude. That's—
Jenny: Spike has never considered himself to owe anyone anything.
Kristin: Except the loan shark. He will pay back the loan shark the 40 Siamese
kittens.
Jenny: Well. Kittens are different.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Kittens are their own story.
Kristin: Yes. [laughing] Andrew gets Boba Fett back and is like, "It's okay! It's
okay! You're gonna be okay!"
Jenny: [laughs] Good lord. Help!
[AD BREAK]
Kristin: So. Amy wants to go out. Using shitty tactics right from the jump, to be
honest. Like, "what, do you wanna stay at home like you did when you were in high
school?" Like, Amy. Jesus.
Jenny: Rude!
Kristin: [laughs] Why are you being mean to Willow right now? Why—like, just ask
her if she wants to go out. She didn't even say no. [laughs] Like…
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Anyway. But I think it's important. Like, I think it's—I think it's there to
illustrate, right, that Willow—
Jenny: Oh, yeah.


Kristin: Does not wanna be that girl. She wants to be a new version of herself. And
she's sort of realizing in this moment, I have no one to answer to now. You know?
That—which is, you know, dangerous in many ways.
Jenny: Cut to Andrew telling Spike that he's seen every episode of Doctor Who.
[both laugh] And Spike is like, "Warren!"
Kristin: [laughs] "You're English, right? I just want you to know—since you're
English, I should tell you that, uh…" yeah.
Jenny: Now, who knows—who the fuck knows why or how Warren should have any
conception of, like, how this chip is designed? To work? Also, I can't imagine Spike
wanting to be like, hey, so this chip in my head prevents me from hurting humans.
And now you know that I can't hurt you and now you'll be less inclined to do
whatever I say in the future.
Kristin: Yeah, and this is where we get the sexy scan. [Jenny laughs]
Warren—Warren says to Spike, "It's pulsing—" [laughs] wow. I didn't even mean to
get extra sexy, but he does say to Spike—[laughs]
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: It's pulsing at a regular interval, which it's supposed to do. Warren, I
guess his robotics—his robotics instruction has also taught him a bit about
governmental devices and how they work. But I guess, you know…
Jenny: I… guess?
Kristin: I guess?
Jenny: So yeah, we'll just buy this.
Kristin: We'll buy it.
Jenny: It's fine. The point is, Spike has enough to sweep out of the basement
[Kristin laughs] and say, "Nothing wrong with me. Something wrong with her.
Blegh!" [laughs]
Kristin: [laughs] I did write that down in my notes, so I'm glad that we get a
dramatic rendition of it from you.
Jenny: Well!


Kristin: Tara decides to stay with Dawn because no one is home.
Jenny: The 16-year-old! The 16-year-old can't be home alone. Uh…
Kristin: I mean, Dawn lays it on thick. "Boy, it sure is getting dark out."
Jenny: [high-pitched] "Oh, it sure is getting dark early these days."
Kristin: Yeah. So Tara stays with her. I woulda stayed with her too. Let's be real.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: And hey! [singsong] Just a fucking queer lady playing magic pool at The
Bronze! [Jenny laughs] I just love—I will say that I love, as—you know what, call it
a stereotype, call it the truth. Queer women play a lot of fucking pool. And I'm
horrible at it, just FYI. I wish I had that magic skill ability. But I love that Willow
and Amy are playing pool together—
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: And not just like, sitting and having a drink and talking. I like that they've
been given an activity.
Jenny: Does billiards, since it has two L's in the middle—
Kristin: Count as an L word?
Jenny: [simultaneously] Does that count as having one L at the beginning, which
would then make it an L word?
Kristin: Bill—is billiards an L word? Yes. Yes. Official ruling.
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: Yes. Billiards is an L word.
Jenny: Cool, thank you.
Kristin: Mmhmm, you're welcome. Living, laughing, billiards, loving. [both laugh]


Jenny: Okay, so. [snorts] Some dudes roll up. And they're like, "hey, you wanna
dance?" [Kristin sighs] And Amy does, 'cause she's been a rat for a few years, so—
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: This seems good.
Kristin: [simultaneously] She's psyched to not have to gnaw on shit, you know?
She's—oh, wait, maybe she does wanna gnaw on these boys. But it would probably
look a little bit different.
Jenny: And Willow's like, no thanks. And then Amy's like, oh, want something a
little more your style? And she beckons—
Kristin: Oof.
Jenny: Magically—
Kristin: Oof.
Jenny: And the Marina from The L Word's stunt double [Kristin giggles] sweeps on
over—
Kristin: Dis—hard disagree there.
Jenny: [simultaneously] You know when television is like, if we put two incredibly
straight-looking, femme-presenting women who clearly look like they have never
looked in a desirous fashion at another woman or wondered what it might be like to
kiss those soft, soft lips, ever. But if we just point them at each other, that looks
pretty gay, right?
Kristin: Right. [laughs] Okay—
Jenny: So that's what's going on here—
Kristin: I have a lot of—
Jenny: And then one of them—mm?
Kristin: [laughs] I have a lot of feedback here. First of all, I don't think this girl
looks anything like Marina.


Jenny: Huh.
Kristin: Though I do think if she left a voice message on a voicemail box [both
laugh] she would say, [husky voice] "Hello Willow. It's me, Bri." [both laugh] Oh,
anyway. So that's actually, further to my second point, which is that this girl's
name is Bri. And I just—it reminded me that one of the lists—one of the things on
Cordelia's list back in the library that she hated was Bri, and we thought it was
cheese. It was probably this girl! She probably hated this girl.
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: This is the girl.
Jenny: Yeah. Cordelia hates this bitch. [both laugh]
Kristin: Right? This is, like, totally a girl that Cordelia would hate. So—
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: And then my third point, so—
Jenny: Not because she's, in quotes, "gay." [laughs]
Kristin: Well, she's not gay.
Jenny: But rather—
Kristin: She's been made magically gay.
Jenny: Well, no, but she's clearly there with that other girl.
Kristin: Oh, is—
Jenny: Because they are—
Kristin: Ohh my god!
Jenny: They are staring into each other's eyes. I know, you couldn't even tell
because it was—
Kristin: I could—


Jenny: So not right.
Kristin: That's what you were saying that whole time? I had no idea. They
are—that was done so poorly that I just thought they were two literal gal pals.
Jenny: It's like—look, I hate to bring porn into it. [Kristin laughs] But have you
ever seen porn, where there are two—
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah.
Jenny: Ladies… engaging in some long-taloned, [Kristin laughs] devoid of passion
sort of, like—
Kristin: [laughing] Long—
Jenny: Sexual interaction. [laughs]
Kristin: [laughing] Long-taloned. [both laugh]
Jenny: I mean… [both laugh] I just… I just—!
Kristin: I see. Well, you know, I did make a note—
Jenny: [simultaneously] There's a very specific look—
Kristin: Yes, okay, okay, okay.
Jenny: When straight women are doing gay stuff together—
Kristin: I see, I see.
Jenny: For financial or directorial reasons. [laughs]
Kristin: I now understand—I'm so glad that we've journeyed through this, all
together. Because I wasn't even following, and now I'm fully following. And I even
made a note that—like, 'cause I laughed at the end of this scene when she goes
back to the girl [laughing] and the girl was like, "What was that all about?!"
Jenny: Yeah! She's like, what was that all about? My… [Kristin laughs] lesbian
date, who I—or possibly bisexual or possibly pansexual—
Kristin: Do you think that's her lover, Cindy?


Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: Is this a podcast about The L Word now? Okay. So the serious thing about
this scene that deserves pointing out is this is fucked up. I mean, it winds up being
cut off at the pass because Willow's like, I'm not—I don't—this is not what I want.
But Amy has very non-consensually activated this woman to go over and—
Jenny: [laughing] "Activated" is a great word!
Kristin: [laughs] Right?
Jenny: [makes mechanical whirring sound] Her eyes glow. Momentarily. [both
laugh]
Kristin: So it's fucked up. It goes into the bin with many of the fucked up
boundary-crossing, consent-breaking things that have happened via magic that we
talked about a little bit two weeks ago with Natalie and that we're gonna get into in
much more detail in a couple of weeks. Anyway, my god.
Jenny: Great news. Great news for Kristin, Willow's drinking a martini with a
pimento-stuffed olive, [Kristin laughs] meaning somebody's tapery fingers got in
there [Kristin laughs] to fucking jam it in!
Kristin: Oh my god—
Jenny: Instantly negating the fake gay stuff. [both laugh] From the previous
moment, and making me feel very gay.
Kristin: Long talons need not apply to remove—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: This pimento from an olive.
Jenny: Correct.
Kristin: So yeah, Willow is drinking a martini, which I'm into. I do like that she's
drinking a martini. And like, listen, this episode—I have a lot to say. So I'm not
concerned about you. If this is too long for you, you just—go ahead, go find
somebody else who can do this many L Word references in a short span of time.
'Cause you won't find it out there, so—


Jenny: Oh, god. Help! [laughs]
Kristin: This is not an L Word reference. This is just a conversation on the music
that's playing. This is a band called Virgil. That will be later morphed into a band
called Halo Friendlies, but that's another story for later. But this band, Virgil,
they're singing, "I'm getting caught in the corners of her vermillion borders." Do
you know what the word "vermillion" means? You're smart. I had to look it up.
Jenny: It's a deep red, I believe.
Kristin: Yeah, who knew? But I just wanna say that the lyric cuts off. Because they
go on to say, "She's ugly when she's insecure." That's where it cuts off in the show.
The next lyric of the song is, "That makes her—" [singing] "That's what makes her
beautiful!"
Jenny: [singing] "Beautiful!"
Kristin: Just so you know—
Jenny: Great.
Kristin: That that is—that sentiment—being insecure, as a woman, makes you
beautiful, makes you beautiful.
Jenny: Ahh, yes.
Kristin: So actually, here. Let's play the fucking Patriarchy jingle there.
[THE PATRIARCHY jingle plays]
The patriarchy! [thunder clap, evil laughter]
Kristin: Oh, we played that in a perfect place, because we come out of that into a
big, heaping scoop of the fucking patriarchy, don't we?
Jenny: What happens? Oh, yeah! [cackles] Oh my god. Amy comes off the
dancefloor and the boys trail her. And they're like, "aw, you gotta keep dancing!"
And she's like, "I'm good." And they're like, "you can't just get us all worked up like
that." Running theme in this episode.
Kristin: Yeah.


Jenny: Women aren't allowed to, in quotes, "get men all worked up."
Kristin: Yeah, yeah.
Jenny: And then not, dot-dot-dot.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And Willow's like, hey man, she said she's chilling for now. And blonde
douche says—are you ready? It's 2001, buckle up. Blonde douche says, "Nobody
asked you, Ellen." Ahhhh! [both laugh] The only lesbian anyone had ever heard of
in 2001!
Kristin: [laughs] Oh, god. So—
Jenny: Obviously this guy sucks.
Kristin: Yeah, these guys—
Jenny: But it is—what a—what a position to be, to be able to look back on severely
dated—
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: [laughs] This. Whatever this is, and laugh.
Kristin: [sighs] Yeah, so they take a little—they get a little revenge fantasy
situation in here, which has its own issues. The men are sent to cages, where they
dance, very scantily-clad, after their sins as—
Jenny: They’re wearing, like, panties with streamers on them or something?
Kristin: Yeah. This is sort of like, hocus-pocus gone sexy. It's like when they put
those two shitty boys—[Jenny laughs] like, when the witches put the two—
Jenny: "Sexy."
Kristin: Yeah, sexy in hard quotes. But, like—
Jenny: Oh yeah, one of whom is Larry. One of the two boys that goes into those
cages—


Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: Is Larry from Buffy.
Kristin: Wow, I don't know what circle we just closed, but—
Jenny: "Sisters!"
Kristin: You're all welcome. So anyway, these dudes are dancing in cages. Again,
the magic—the magic is gonna go just off the fucking rails at this point. This is
not—this is not the way to do it, everyone. But let's go to the Magic Box while Amy
and Willow continue their little rampage at The Bronze. [clears throat] Xander's
looking at a D&D manual. See if he can find this frost monster who eats diamonds.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Okay, let me just tell you… let me tell you—I'm sure
there's copyright issues or whatever. But that is not a D&D manual.
Kristin: Oh, wow. Well, you heard it here, folks, from… D&D expert, Jenny Owen
Youngs.
Jenny: Boooooo! [laughs]
Kristin: I'm gonna take your word on it. 'Cause no one has ever—
Jenny: Thank you.
Kristin: Decided to teach me how to play Dungeons & Dragons.
Jenny: I—[laughs]
Kristin: So I never got to learn that game and I don't know what a manual looks
like, because no one taught me.
Jenny: Ahh. Ahh. Okay, so Buffy—[both laugh] Buffy is, as we have mentioned
before, not considered about Willow until Anya says, "Responsible people are so
concerned with being good that when they finally get a taste of being bad, they
can't get enough." Buffy flashes back to the middle of Season 3, thinking to herself,
[Kristin laughs] I once got a taste of being bad. [Kristin laughs] And then some.
[laughs]
Kristin: I was once handcuffed to someone who was bad! [both laugh]


Jenny: Yeah! Yes.
Kristin: Yeah, so this is, like, a messy—this comparison between Buffy's choices
and Willow's choices is muddy, at this point. And I—like, I just wanna call that out.
I think that what Anya's saying here is not accurate. Like, Anya has basically said,
"When good people get a taste of being bad, they go all kablooey." Which, like,
hearkens to mind, like, you know, the kids who came to college and they had never
had a sip of alcohol would often, like, definitely black out a lot quicker than those of
us who had been steadily drinking since before we got to college.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: But that is not what's happening to Willow. That's not—I don't think that
that really underlines what's happening to Willow. What's happened to Willow is
that Willow has suffered massive trauma and doesn't have the tools to manage
that. So I just wanna say that, and I also think that that's what's happening with
Buffy. But I think it's messy to compare apples to apples, what Buffy is doing to
what Willow is doing. 'Cause it's not—these are not two apples. They have—
Jenny: Hey, we're not comparing. Buffy's comparing.
Kristin: Right. Buffy—well, and—yeah. Buffy is—right. And I think it's—right. I
think the show—
Jenny: Buffy's all, [stammers] we can't assume everybody's getting all seduced all
the time!
Kristin: Yes, yes.
Jenny: I'm sure people are just minding their own business, being chill!
Kristin: Yeah. And Xander—you know, credit to Xander, in this scene as well. Like,
Tara thinks Willow's doing too much magic and she's not the only one. Xander, who
has really experienced firsthand addiction and substance abuse in his own
household. And like, Buffy—Buffy's just too wrapped up in the Spike of it all to see
this.
Jenny: Speaking of the Spike of it all—
Kristin: Brrrinnng!
Jenny: Ring-ring!


Kristin: Brrrinnng!
Jenny: Brrrinnng! [both laugh] "Slayer!"
Kristin: Do you think that Spike has, like, a pile of quarters at home that he uses
to call people from the payphone? [both laugh] Like, what? [laughs]
Jenny: No, I think he has a slug that he, like, slides in—
Kristin: Ooh, nice.
Jenny: Makes his call and then pulls it out.
Kristin: Pulls it out? Yep, yep, yep.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: "Meet me at the cemetery!" Like, "meet me at—meet me behind the school
at 2 PM!" Uh…
Jenny: Good lord.
Kristin: He's really putting on the villain face a little too hard. 'Cause he doesn't
know what the fuck to do with this thing. And he knows—like, he wants to pretend
like he's Spike of yesteryear who's just gonna, like, trick the Slayer and kill her. But
he fucking knows he's not gonna do that. [laughing] Buffy's like, "Spike? You're
calling me on the phone?" [both laugh]
Jenny: "Honestly, how did you get this number?"
Kristin: [laughs] Well. We know that the Magic Box placed a giant ad in the Yellow
Pages.
Jenny: Oh, that's true.
Kristin: So. Okay, so they go—they leave the Magic Box. Buffy's done a poor job of
lying, but nobody's really paying attention. And they sort of have this, like, moment
of reflection on, this doesn't seem like monster work that's been happening lately in
Sunnydale. And they say their goodbyes and Spike is—boom! Right behind Buffy.
"What are you gonna do, walk behind me to death?" she says. [laughs]


Jenny: Uh, very interesting that Spike has changed, since earlier in the episode.
Kristin: Oh, he's wearing his long duster.
Jenny: [simultaneously] He is now wearing his confront your nemesis slash love
interest and inform her that she came back from heaven incorrectly slash less
human—
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: Which always calls for a blue button-up, as we all know. Or purple, it's sort
of hard to tell in this light.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Purplish blue, yeah. It's a bright, bright color. A very
bright color. "You came back wrong," he says. He's revealing to her what we found
out earlier, which is that he can not hurt anyone. He can only hurt Buffy. And
[laughs] he has a nice—I will give him a little bit of melodrama credit, when he
says, "Oh, the pain. The pain… is gone!" Dun-dun-dun!
Jenny: [laughing] Oh my god.
Kristin: But the—
Jenny: "Smells like fear!"
Kristin: [laughs] But the—
Jenny: "It smells good!" [both laugh]
Kristin: The seriousness of this scene, though, is that he is telling Buffy that she
came back a little less human than she once was. And so the chip doesn't register
her on its grid as human—
Jenny: Dude.
Kristin: Which is—
Jenny: It's pretty weird. Pretty weird!
Kristin: Pretty weird, pretty complicated, and definitely, like, not a thing to add to
Buffy's roster of trauma, right? She's already not feeling like herself. So to be told
that a, like, machine chip thing recognizes that she is in fact not herself is—


Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: Pretty fucked up. And she's—she's upset about it. And she says, "You're
wrong." We do a quick, quick cut back to The Bronze, where… [laughs] Willow's
like, "I would prefer to watch Josie and the Pussycats, thank you."
Jenny: There we go.
Kristin: Right?
Jenny: Don't worry, the singer is in the Rock Squad. [Kristin laughs] It sure was a
different time.
Kristin: Yeah. It was. They're doing all these, like, things with magic. Like, making
one man tall and one man short. And making one man fly [crosstalk]
Jenny: [simultaneously] Oh, and then there's a million sheep.
Kristin: Costume. And then sheep come to The Bronze—like. It just seems like an
odd choice.
Jenny: This is just not—can you imagine being like, you know what would be cool?
Kristin: [laughing] Some sheep…
Jenny: If we did all this stuff with our unlimited power.
Kristin: You know what we need? Some fucking sheep in this place! Like, what?
[both laugh] Okay. Anyway. Buffy and Spike are fighting, both using their fists and
using… their words. She's telling him, you can't be a vampire. You can't be a man.
You can just make moon-eyes at me. I'm the fucking Slayer, like, what is your deal,
man?
Jenny: Mmm. Mmhmm, mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: He comes back with the cutting jab of, "I'm in love with you." [both laugh
nervously]
Jenny: Yikes! [both laugh]


Kristin: She's like, "You enjoy the pain of it all." And he really kinda takes that
blow and is like, yeah, well, you know what? I'm a fucking vampire. What's your
excuse?
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: Like, yeah, you're right, everything you're saying is right and I am an
actual vampire. So like… what's the deal with you? And they fight. And they fight.
And they fight. And now, I think it's important at this point in the conversation,
Jenny, to point out that Buffy is wearing a—we'll call it pleather. Maybe she
splurged and it's leather. It is either pleather or leather and it goes from her waist
to the floor, or pretty close to it, this skirt. You know, no reason—
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: [laughing] That I wanna mention that. I just—you know, I just thought,
like, we haven't talked about what she's wearing. So.
Jenny: Mm. Mmhmm.
Kristin: And they've fought their way into, um, a rickety house. We'll give it that. It
did start rickety.
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: It started shaky.
Jenny: Uh-huh, uh-huh.
Kristin: And they're fighting. And Buffy is throwing Spike up against a fireplace, or
what used to be a fireplace. She's knocking pieces of drywall off of this house with
Spike's body. And…
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: Then what happens?
Jenny: What happens, Kristin? I'm so glad you asked. In a little segment I like to
call, 1080P HGTV, they fuck this house right down! Goodbye, crown molding!
Kristin: Wow.


Jenny: Goodbye, hardwood floors! Goodbye, hand-bricked fireplace! It's all going
down. No inch of this house can withstand the power of their fucktitude! [Kristin
laughs] Here they go, nothing can stop them! What is this Enya-ass music cue?
Kristin: I'm sorry—
Jenny: For the moment we've all been waiting for?
Kristin: I'm gonna just—I know you have more to say. But I'm gonna take me and
the listeners back to when you said, "1080P HGTV." Because I didn't—
Jenny: That's right!
Kristin: I had not been given advance notice of this segment and—[laughs]
Jenny: Well! Listen. They're assessing—this house has great bones. But let's just
fuck through this wall between the dining room and the living room—
Kristin: Okay. Okay.
Jenny: And do something that's more of an open concept.
Kristin: Okay, great, great, so the philosophy—the sort of… cornerstone of this
show is, we find a house that we'd like to renovate. And—
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: We fuck down the walls we don't want—
Jenny: Which is most of them, because HGTV only cares about open concept.
Kristin: Okay, okay. So—so the—okay, so—and is it always Spike and Buffy fucking
the walls down in this 1080P HGTV show?
Jenny: Well, what I've noticed about HGTV shows is that, you know, whomstever is
overseeing or, you know, whoever is the director of this episode of HGTV in 1080P
is—[Kristin laughs] they generally have, like, their drywall guy and their, like,
woodwork guy. And their mason—
Kristin: I see.
Jenny: They have their regulars that they go to.


Kristin: Right.
Jenny: So I'm gonna say that they'll probably go to Buffy and Spike demolition
crew regularly.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Of course, sometimes a contractor is booked solid.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Sometimes a contractor is out of town or on vacation.
Kristin: Right. Right.
Jenny: So I'm sure they'll have—
Kristin: Okay.
Jenny: To contract other people to fuck the walls down, on occasion. But I think
mostly, it'll be Buffy and Spike. And then of course, these demolitions are gonna
have to take place at night.
Kristin: Do you think—do you think that they would have fucked this house down if
Buffy had not been wearing an ankle-length pleather—like, do you think part of
the—do you think it was just passion? Or do you think it was, like, passion plus
trying to having sex through a pleather skirt? [laughing] Like, what—was that a
part of things?
Jenny: Uh, define through. 'Cause as I understand it, skirts just go right up.
Kristin: But is that—like, has Spike or Buffy pulled the whole skirt up—I mean, it's
similar questions that I had, honestly—
Jenny: I think—
Kristin: In the ren faire dress. It's a lot of skirt.
Jenny: I think that, in television, wardrobe comes first.
Kristin: Uh-huh.


Jenny: And any and all sex-related maneuvering or physics comes second.
Kristin: Okay. Yes. You're right. You know, before—I have a lot to say. Well, I have
a medium amount to say. But since we're—just unveiled our new 1080P HGTV
segment, it does seem like a great time to roll on over to the Sexual Tension—it's
possible that the sexual tension will knock down a house in this episode.
Jenny: That's right.
[SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays]
Sexual tension award!
Jenny: Here we are, once again. It always comes back.
Kristin: There's much rubble all around!
Jenny: To this.
Kristin: So much—so many piles of drywall.
Jenny: Oh, claw your way through the stray bricks. Let the mortar dust settle. And
gather round, children, as I reveal unto thee… [Kristin laughs] some slots, and
some noms—
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: Therein.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Here we go. In your first slot, you've got fan faves. Everybody loves them.
Buffy and Spike.
Kristin: Oh, hey! Didn't expect to see them here.
Jenny: Haven't seen—wow, yeah.
Kristin: Hmm.
Jenny: In slot two, look at that lean, look at that [Kristin laughs] intimate scan
reading, if you know what I mean. It's Spike and Warren!


Kristin: Ohh. A steady pulse, you might say.
Jenny: In slot three, are you ready? Some passion burns even brighter than the
passion between two or more humans. Some passion is, uh, you know, on a deep,
cellular level. It's about, like, sustenance and—you just, like, really need someone.
And that's what I'm thinking about when I tell you that our slot three… features
Spike… and his deep passionate need for human blood when he thinks he can freely
slurp it from a vein once more. And in the fourth slot—I hope you didn't already
vote, people who jammed—fucking smashed that [Kristin laughs] poll button for
slot number one. Because I have—we have a wild card for you.
Kristin: Ooh.
Jenny: A throuple of sorts.
Kristin: Mm!
Jenny: Uh, they do it the way only they can do it.
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: This potential throuple. It's Spike, it's Buffy and it's these rickety, rickety
walls, just asking to be busted down.
Kristin: Oh no! I'm a wall and I might just fall down!
Jenny: Oops.
Kristin: Oops! [both laugh]
Jenny: Oh no, I'm condemned! [Kristin laughs] Oh no, time for a full gut remodel!
Oops.
Kristin: I've been a naughty, naughty wall. Oh, boy.
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah.
Kristin: So… you—
Jenny: Hell yeah.


Kristin: Just go on over. Follow us on Twitter, @BufferingCast. You can cast your
vote for whatever slot and nom combination. I say that now. I own it, I've given up
fighting. Love a slot, I love a nom.
Jenny: Woo! [singing] Welcome to the dark side!
Kristin: The poll will be up for a week and you can cast your vote for whoever you
think deserves the award. Wonderful job. That has been your Sexual Tension
Awards.
[SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays]
Sexual tension award!
Jenny: Now, Kristin.
Kristin: Yes, Jenny.
Jenny: I would be remiss—
Kristin: Mm.
Jenny: If I did not highlight for you, in the wake of this fuck-the-house-down
scene—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: The auspicious season and episode number combination of this episode—
Kristin: Oh my god.
Jenny: Which is Season 6…
Kristin: Oh, my god.
Jenny: Episode 9.
Kristin: Oh my god.
Jenny: [singsong] You're welcome!
Kristin: Or as the internet would say… nice.


Jenny: Nice.
Kristin: Okay, so. In this Season 6, Episode 9, the house has been fucked near to
down or down completely. And there's one last scene in The Bronze that… you
know, Amy and Willow decide that they're bored. I would be bored, too. These are
the most boring magic tricks you've ever done, ladies.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: I'm bored. So—
Jenny: [high-pitched] Wow, so many sheep!
Kristin: [laughs] So they undo the magic they've done. Josie and her Pussycats
disappear. This is the band that is—it's a real—these are both real bands. Halo
Friendlies is the name of the lady band. And the sheep disappear, the dudes come
out of their—the dudes notably come out of their cages and immediately start being
assholes to Bri and Bri's alleged girlfriend. And they are ruminating on what they
can do that's bigger and better than The Bronze. So we leave them there. And I
just think that it's imp—this scene. First of all, this scene—like, I remember when
we had Alanna on. Alanna Bennett and she was talk—like, there were certain things
that we couldn't talk about 'cause of spoilers. But like, I remember her specifically
being like, "This scene really made me confused about what it was to have sex."
[both laugh] Just like, this is my initial sex education and it fucked me up. I think
that this is a scene that exists in many people's brains as, like, "I was watching
Buffy with my parents. [laughing] And then, I got to this episode and I have never
recovered." It is very… I think that apart from Riley taking the boot off of Buffy—
Jenny: Oooh!
Kristin: Which was incredibly—and you know, credit—
Jenny: [simultaneously] The second most confounding sexual moment. [laughs]
Kristin: Yeah. Then there was the orgasm wall. You know. There was that. But—
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: But this, um… this is, like, a dark sexiness that the show has not yet
explored. And there—as you know from listening to this episode, like, there's—there
is so much, like, trauma going into this sex scene, that it is problematic. And
it—there's so much. And you know, I just wanna say here that, like, we are gonna


do our best to explore this dark sexy situation that is happening, in responsible
ways and also in ways of, like, remembering what it was like to watch this for the
first time. Reflecting on the fact that, you know, until this viewing of this episode
for this podcast, I did not notice the really fucked up things that Spike says to
Buffy, at all.
Jenny: Oh yeah.
Kristin: And very much experienced this episode as like, ohh fucking yeah! Spike
and Buffy fuck the house down! And that is there, right? There—I think that, like—
Jenny: Hey. We are thinking humans. We can hold two realities—
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Two truths—
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: That conflict with one another in our minds, simultaneously. Can we not?
Kristin: We can. And I think—like, I think that that is what is complicated about
talking about this and moving through this, this season in general, is that, like—you
know, there is—you can't undo the sexiness of the union of these two characters.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: But you can explore the fucked up parts of it. And like—and to my point
earlier of, like, what would have happened if Spike was not saying, "I'm the only
one that you have." And what would have happened if Spike wasn't sort of, like,
following her in the cemetery—you know, like, all these things. Because there's a
part of me that really believes that these two would have fucked this house down to
feel close to each other, without it necessarily needing to be this manipulative
situation. But you can't—you can't make Spike not Spike. And you can't—you know
what I mean? Like, he is who he is and he's doing really fucked up shit.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Buffy is in a really fucked up place. And they fuck the house down. And
you know what? We have a lot of feelings about it.
Jenny: We do.


Kristin: We do. So. Wow. Wow. As you would say, Jenny… wow, wow, wow.
Jenny: I'm always saying that.
Kristin: Luckily, my house is still standing. How's your house doing?
Jenny: Still standing for now! [Kristin laughs] But you know, the second HGTV
calls, phew! Shit could get wild.
Kristin: [laughs] Open concept 2021.
Jenny: Hell yeah!
Kristin: Ah. Who are you, Jenny? Should we end the episode? Is it the end, the end
of the episode?
Jenny: I think it is the end, the end of the episode. I'm Jenny Owen Youngs! And
when I'm not making this podcast, I am writing and recording all kinds of music.
You can learn more about me at jennyowenyoungs.com. You can give me a shout
on Twitter @JennyOwenYoungs. And I'll tell you what, I have two new music things
I just wanna scream about for one second. I have a brand new EP called Echo
Mountain that just came out. And my band, my… quartet of four queer ladies—
Kristin: Hell yeah.
Jenny: A queer-tet, if you will, called L.A. Exes. We just released our first single a
couple weeks ago. It's called Temporary Goodbye. You can find it in all the digital
streaming places. We are fun. We are a good time. Please join us, follow us, listen
to the jam. And there will be more to come in the near future. And some of what's
to come will involve a certain dog that a lot of you—
Kristin: [simultaneously, gasps] I know, I know, I know about it!
Jenny: Have expressed allegiance to.
Kristin: I know about it.
Jenny: So yeah.
Kristin: I know the dog.


Jenny: [laughs] Get on board with us, because there's exciting stuff coming. Okay,
cool, bye.
Kristin: It's like—L.A. Exes is a band that I like. And the song Temporary Goodbye
is like, [sings tune]—Jenny, can we play them a little bit of the song? Was that
good?
Jenny: [snorts and laughs] That was very good.
Kristin: Okay, can we play them a tiny bit of the song? Of Temporary Goodbye?
Here? In the podcast?
Jenny: I think so?
Kristin: Okay, let's just—like, just a taste.
Jenny: Yeah, just a taste. Just—the first taste is free. And then the subsequent
taste could also be free if you go to Spotify or your streaming platform of choice.
[Kristin laughs]
["Temporary Goodbye" by L.A. Exes plays]
I don't wanna die
But I wouldn't mind
Disappearing for awhile
Temporary goodbye
I don't wanna die
Just need some time
Give me a temporary goodbye
Temp-temp-temp-temporary, temp-temp
Kristin: [sings tune]
Jenny: Yeah-yeah, yeah!
Kristin: [singing] Temp-temporary goodbye! [sings tune]
Jenny: Wow, that's really good, Kristin.
Kristin: Thank you! I've just been waiting—


Jenny: Well, we gotta open up a fifth slot.
Kristin: Thank you! I've just been waiting for my offer letter to come through. My
name is Kristin Russo. Always available to be the fifth person in your quartet. [both
laugh] You can learn about the work that I do with the LGBTQ community at my
website, kristinnoeline.com. That's K-R-I-S-T-I-N N-O-E-L-I-N-E. I do speaking
engagements at work places, at schools. You know, wherever. And if you don't
want me to speak at your school or your workplace, you can get me to speak on
the internet for you any time, on my Twitter or my Instagram, all @KristinNoeline.
You can see pictures of my cats. Really, that's what's happening in those spaces.
That's what's going on there.
Jenny: Great pics, great cats.
Kristin: Thank you! Thank you, they are. They're wonderful cats. Where can they
find us?
Jenny: Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram,
@BufferingCast. Or you could drop us an email at
bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin: Yes, and you can support our work on Patreon. We would love it if you did.
You can find all of that information at bufferingthevampireslayer.com. Just click on
Patreon to join our Patreon family. There's a Facebook group, there's music. Jenny's
doing a concert in April.
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: We've got behind the scenes Once More, With Feeling—it's a fun place.
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: There's a book club. There's literally something for everyone. You can also
go to our store. We have a US store and a UK store. You can find that by clicking
Shop on the website. We have tons of new stuff. Big Fucking Nerd merch is
abundant and there for you if you are a big fucking nerd.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm!
Kristin: And, um, yeah. You know, you could also rate and review us on iTunes if
you want. We would love it!


Jenny: We would.
Kristin: Mm.
Jenny: And you know. I guess that's it.
Kristin: I think that's all.
Jenny: So. It's the time where I say, till next time…
Both: Awwwooooooooooooooo!
Kristin: Walls shaking, walls crumbling. [explosion noise]
[“Smashed” plays off the album “Songs from Season Six” by Buffering the
Vampire Slayer]

