Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 3.21: Graduation Day (Part 1)
Jenny:​ Today’s episode is brought to you by Better Help. No explaining why
you need to leave work, no fighting traffic and no waiting rooms. Better Help
lets you connect with an experienced, professional therapist in a safe and
private environment. Text your therapist any time, plus schedule phone,
video or chat sessions when it’s convenient, and get help at your own time
and place. To learn more or sign up, go to betterhelp.com/buffy, enter the
invite code “Buffy” to get your first seven days free and show your support
for the show. There’s no shame in getting help, ‘cause you’re worth it.
[intro chime]
Man:​ Previously, on Buffering the Vampire Slayer.
[Jenny performs “The Prom” off the album “Songs from Season
Three” by Buffering the Vampire Slayer]
If I can’t stop you from leaving,
What am I gonna do?
What am I gonna do?
If I can’t stop you from leaving,
What am I gonna do then?
If I can’t stop you from leaving,
What am I gonna do?
What am I gonna do?
If I can’t stop you from leaving,
What am I gonna do then, then?
Jenny:​ Hey, everybody! It’s Jenny, here, alone in the intro. Kristin had
some travel this week, so I’ve been left unsupervised, against everyone’s
better instincts, to record this intro by my lonesome. Hello. I thought she
would never leave. I thought we’d never be alone, but here we are. Wow.
Since we last spoke, we had Buffy Prom and it rocked ​so ​hard! It was the
best. Thank you everybody who came out and everybody who threw or
attended a Buffy Prom-Up elsewhere in other cities across the land. Wow! I
just want to take a quick second to thank a few of our amazing sponsors


from Prom. Hurrah Lip Balm, which rocks, Lagusta’s Luscious, which is a
glorious artisanal vegan chocolatier in New Paltz, NY, and also, Scarecrow
Fangs hooked it up so hard. All three of these fine companies threw us some
sweet, sweet chocolates and lip balm and fangs for our prom attendees to
enjoy and we are so grateful to them for sponsoring prom.
Also, if you’re looking for a lyric sheet ever, the last lyric sheets before
Season 4 are now available and will be benefiting Giffords. Giffords is
committed to tackling the national gun violence epidemic and works to shift
the culture, change policy, and challenge injustice. You can learn more about
them at Gifford.org, and you can get one of our handwritten lyric sheets by
going to Bufferingthevampireslayer.com/greatergood.
Okay, it’s totally weird when I’m the only one talking so let’s get into the
episode! Yay!
[Theme Music Plays]
Jenny:​ Hello, and welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast
where we are watching and discussing every episode of ​Buffy the Vampire
Slayer​ one at a time, spoiler-free. And my name is Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin:​ And my name is Kristin Russo. This week, we’re here! We’re talking
about Season 3 episode 21, “Graduation Day Part 1”! Stay tuned at the end
of this podcast every week for an original song written by us recapping the
Buffy e
​ pisode we are discussing.
Jenny: ​“Graduation Day Part 1” was written and directed by Joss Whedon
and originally aired on May 18th, 1999.
Kristin:​ And this is the one where, in an effort to distract Buffy from the
ascension, the mayor instructs Faith to poison Angel. This is the one where
Buffy and Faith fight it out!
Jenny:​ Yes, yes it is that one, and you know what I like about this if you’re
watching on Hulu? I don’t know what the DVDs are like, but on Hulu, the
“Previously On” is just like Faith’s greatest hits.
Kristin: ​Yeah, it is!


Jenny: ​And then it’s like, the coda is Buffy being like, “You don’t want to be
with me?” And Angel being like, “I don’t.” At which point Kristin was like,
“He’s such a bad liar.”
Kristin: ​Yeah, you can see right through that “I don’t.”
Jenny: ​Buffy can’t!
Kristin: ​I know! I don’t know why she can’t. I feel like she would…
whatever.
Jenny: ​She’s a young woman in love!
Kristin: ​Yeah, that’s true. The “previously on,” I also had a note. I said,
“Previously on: boob window and all the Faith.” Begins with the boob
window, takes us all the way through to the end. So, then we go to school.
Cordelia is in a pretty banging sweater set. I have to say. You know,
Cordelia has shown us a lot of sweater sets. This peach one is really doing a
great job and she’s paired it– you can tell Kate isn’t on this episode– she’s
paired it with a Burberry skirt. Do you remember Burberry? [pronounces it
with emphasis on “Bur-berry.”]
Jenny:​ Burberry? [pronounces it “ber-ber-ee.”] [laughs] You’re so mad!
Kristin:​ BER-BER-EE.
Jenny:​ Isn’t that way…
Kristin:​ Yes, I’m sorry, I forgot! It’s been a minute. [both laugh]
Jenny: ​Listen, they’re still going strong! I see their ads all the time in
Vogue.
Kristin: ​They are! I knew they exist still, but I just feel like, were they
invented in the 90’s? Because–
Jenny: ​That specific plaid has a particular place in history.


Kristin:​ Yeah, it’s very 90s, that ​Burberry ​print.
Jenny:​ I mean, you don’t have to say it with venom.
Kristin:​ I just feel silly!
Jenny:​ [laughing] Oh no!
Kristin:​ I used to think that “zines” [pronounced “zeens”] were called
“zines” [pronounced rhyming with “mines”].
Jenny:​ [groans]
Kristin:​ And by “used to”, I mean until Jenny and I met. So…
Jenny: ​Kristin still holds a belief that…
Kristin:​ You know, you have skills and then you don’t have other skills.
Jenny: ​Uh-huh.
Kristin:​ That’s all I’m saying. I also really like Cordelia’s line, “Seldom, if
ever” back at Xander, when Xander’s like, “You don’t understand what I
said?” [laughs]
Jenny:​ Yeah. Yeah, was that him slipping back into some kind of military–
you know, from his Halloween soldier boy thing?
Kristin:​ Oh. I didn’t even think about it.
Jenny: ​‘Cause he was like “I’m shipping stateside” or something.
Kristin:​ Right! Yeah, I didn’t think about that. Also, I’ll just get all my
fashion out at once, because–
Jenny: ​Wow!
Kristin: ​Well, not all of it, actually, but I do think that Xander has a very
strong sweater episode.


Jenny:​ The green sweater!
Kristin: ​The green sweater.
Jenny:​ I want it!
Kristin: ​And this sweater that he’s wearing in this scene is also pretty nice.
It’s like a chunky, thick…
Jenny:​ Memory of all other sweaters besides the green sweater–
Kristin:​ Has gone from your mind?
Jenny:​ Burned out!
Kristin:​ [Laughs] So speaking of memories, everybody’s getting ready to
graduate.
Jenny:​ Oh, man!
Kristin:​ This made me feel feelings. I remember this feeling.
Jenny:​ Yeah. How many yearbooks of people that you hate did you sign,
and how many people that you hate signed your yearbook?
Kristin:​ You know, I don’t know if I signed or had people sign my yearbooks
where there was “hatred.” But def–
Jenny:​ I thought you were just going to be like, “I have never hated
anyone.” That would be, like, way more you–
Kristin:​ [Laughs] No, I’ve hated a couple people. But no, I think that… I feel
like it wasn’t exactly what Willow went through, but I do feel like it was…
where people I never talked to, like, had ​never t​ alked to, and we were
signing each other’s yearbooks. It was a very real thing.
Jenny:​ Did you have like a go-to thing that you would write in people’s
yearbooks?


Kristin:​ Uh, you know, I probably did for the people I didn’t know that well.
Jenny: ​Mm-hmm.
Kristin:​ This is not from high school, but I remember drawing those S’s
where you draw like, three lines and then underneath it, three lines, and
then you connect it with diagonal lines to make the “S”, you know?
Jenny: ​Sure, sure.
Kristin: ​But I think that was like middle school yearbook. For nothing, you’d
do the big “S.”
Jenny: ​What even was the “S” for?
Kristin: ​It would say like “Stay cool for the summer!” or whatever. And the
“S” would be one of the S’s or both of the– I don’t know…
Jenny: ​Wow. Great.
Kristin:​ So, anyway. But don’t you remember the nostalgic feeling? That’s
more or less–
Jenny:​ Oh yeah, totally.
Kristin:​ You know, just… I don’t know, you could just feel it in your bones
that you were about to make this big change.
Jenny:​ I feel like at the end of every school year, there was some type of
that happening.
Kristin:​ Yeah, but senior year…
Jenny: ​Because every year that’s ending, I feel like there were always
shifts. No year would ever be the same. You would start the year one way,
you would end the year another way, and then you would come back to it
and some of your friendships would be the same and some of them would be
totally different.


Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny: ​And everything else would be totally different… okay, great.
Kristin: ​[Laughs] You gonna make it over there?
Jenny: ​Yeah. I would write in people’s yearbooks, “Have a summer, I don’t
care what kind.” I don’t know what’s wrong with me.
Kristin: ​Oh! That is ​so ​Jenny Owen Youngs!
Jenny: ​[Laughs] Yeah.
Kristin: ​That is exactly who you were in high school. I mean, I didn’t know
you then, but it just adds up. Makes a lot of sense.
Jenny: ​Yeah, I’m deeply shamed.
Kristin:​ You’re like “I’m so cool.”
Jenny: ​Is ​that​ what I’m like?
Kristin:​ [Laughs] Ummm…
Jenny: ​Anyway, Buffy feels nothing.
Kristin:​ Buffy feels nothing, right. Still working through this. It’s really going
to be with her for her whole life, I think. This “I don’t get to participate in life
normally.”
Jenny:​ Yeah, but lucky for her, she does get to participate ‘cause the mayor
is their commencement speaker! She doesn’t have to choose.
Kristin: ​Yes! Also, we have to give a shout out to the cover of the yearbook,
because I have this pin I’ve had on my bag for forever. “The future is ours.”
Jenny:​ [Fake Laughs] That’s what you think!


Kristin:​ Yeah, just keep that in mind. Just keep it in mind, everybody.
Jenny: ​Yeah. Also, this root beer/Coke thing has really got me. It’s like
exactly… [exasperated groan]
Kristin:​ Who wrote this episode?
Jenny: ​Joss Whedon. You’ve heard of him.
Kristin: ​Yeah. I’m just saying that every line is…
Jenny:​ It’s just the perfect encapsulation of… all year, you’re like, “I can’t
wait for this school year to be over!” And then you get to the end of the
school year, and you’re like, “Fuck. What am I doing with my life?”
Kristin: ​Yeah! Ugh, that’s how life is all the time. You just want to be done
with the thing, and then when you’re done with it, you’re like, “But it was…”
and then you can appreciate it.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ So…
Jenny:​ RIP Professor Worth. We hardly knew you.
Kristin: ​Yo, this scene is…
Jenny:​ It’s so rough.
Kristin:​ You know what? No, hold on. Before we go to this horrible scene,
shout out to the line of Willow’s, “Siegfried? Roy? One of the tigers?”
Jenny:​ HA!
Kristin: ​Cool, now we can go into misery.
Jenny:​ Okay.
Kristin: ​This is a horrible scene.


Jenny: ​Man, it’s so rough.
Kristin: ​It’s just like… you all know at this point how we feel about Faith.
You know, we feel like, a sad emoji for Faith. That’s kind of the primary
thing. So to see this scene where she walks in and she’s got all of her armor
on, and you can see the armor, and when she says, “We alone here,
Lester?” It’s just really dark. It’s really dark, and the way she kills him is so–
it’s just a very gruesome situation. But also, why doesn’t he fight back at
all? That’s the question I have.
Jenny: ​Uh, victim blaming much?
Kristin: ​Well, no! [Laughs] He wouldn’t have lived anyway, it just was
unbelievable to me that he– because she didn’t have his arms down or
anything, you know? And he just kind of stood there.
Jenny: ​Yeah, but she did have a not-quite-as-threatening-as-her-last-knife
knife. What, did she go to the 25-cent machine and get a replacement knife?
Kristin:​ [Laughs] Yeah, she was bummed.
Jenny:​ That’s a sad looking knife.
Kristin: ​She was definitely bummed about having to use that knife. For
sure. So then we go to the credits. And when we come back from the
credits, we get, I think, one of the most pivotal, if not ​the​ most pivotal scene
between the Mayor and Faith.
Jenny: ​Oh, man. It’s so much.
Kristin:​ You all know at this point I think that we’re going to have an
interview with Harry Groener as the season end, and he talked about this
scene a lot. This scene he remembered more than the rest. And it’s clear
why, there’s something that happens here where you see their love for each
other, and you also see the unhealthiness of that love from Faith’s
perspective.
Jenny: ​Yeah.


Kristin:​ When she walks out in this dress, it just– it makes me so
uncomfortable. I think all the work that I do with gender and gender identity
and gender expression and what-have-you played in here for me, seeing her
in this dress, you know?
Jenny:​ Mm-hmm.
Kristin: ​It felt like she was wearing something that made her feel so
uncomfortable, but she loves him so much that she just believed him that it
was okay.
Jenny:​ Yeah. Also, watching him tidy up the magazines and refold the throw
blanket while he’s waiting for her to get changed. It’s like…
Kristin: ​Yeah. They need to learn to love each other as who they are, is
what I think.​ ​[Jenny laughs] Actually, no. I think just the mayor.
Jenny:​ Faith loves the mayor for who he is.
Kristin:​ For who he is. Spiders and all.
Jenny:​ But I don’t know, it’s so interesting the way that he… when she says
“this isn’t me.” And then he goes into this whole thing about like, “nobody
knows what you are, not even you.” And he’s talking to her in a way that
probably nobody has ever talked to her in her life, about her unseen
potential and his belief in her and how he’s as proud as any father could be.
[groans] It’s so much!
Kristin: ​Yeah, it’s a lot. It’s a lot and you make a good point. He’s referring
to her leather and her dark lipstick and whatever as armor, which it certainly
is. It is, and I think that from that vantage point… it’s just very emotional.
It’s just very emotional, ‘cause they do have a very genuine love for each
other. As rooted in unhealthiness as it might be, they love each other.
Jenny:​ Meanwhile… [laughs]
Kristin: ​Meanwhile, Percy has gotten a B- on his exam! His final exam!


Jenny: ​It’s very exciting. Anytime we get to see Percy’s jaw line, I’m like,
“What’s… up?”
Kristin:​ [Laughs] Yeah, Percy’s nailing it. [Imitating Percy] “I’m a scholar!
I’m like a scholar!” He’s got like the thickest Boston accent of all time, but
I’m pretty sure they live in California.
Jenny: ​[Laughs] He transferred!
Kristin: ​[Laughs] Also, the other thing in this scene that I love is Willow’s
bike! What a sweet ride!
Jenny:​ Yeah, what a wild– to have those… they look like ape hanger
handlebars, but then they’re just at regular handlebar height.
Kristin:​ Yeah!
Jenny: ​It’s so strange, I don’t know if I’ve ever seen it.
Kristin:​ I like it. I want one.
Jenny: ​Okay, okay.
Kristin: ​Here’s your favorite sweater! Xander’s wearing that green, sweet
sweater.
Jenny:​ Yes!
Kristin: ​What is the deal with this teacher?
Jenny:​ We’ve seen him a few times.
Kristin:​ He’s like ev– in the beginning, if you’ve never seen this episode,
you think definitely the teacher is going to be part of the plot line. With the
way that they do this scene, where he’s like, “They always go for ‘E’ [Evil
Laugh].” It’s just extra evil.
Jenny:​ It seems like maybe it’s the last day of school or whatever and he’s
just trying to get his last power play out.


Kristin: ​Yeah. I wonder what he was spelling. Do you think he was spelling
ascens– no, there would have been an ‘E’. [Laughs] But, you probably want
to talk about Anya in this scene, don’t you?
Jenny:​ [yells] I do!
Kristin:​ I knew it.
Jenny: ​I do. I love her. Listen, listen, listen. “We could watch sports of some
kind. Men like sports, I’m sure of it.” Like, her… powers of observation.
Kristin:​ [laughs] This is also like, Anya is coming into Anya. This episode, I
think, is the most “Anya” Anya has been.
Jenny:​ Totally.
Kristin:​ You see this vulnerability matched with her leftover demon anger,
you know?
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ She just can’t figure out how to be, and when she’s like, “You know,
I’m trying here. You don’t need to take my head off.” First of all, it’s very
cute. Second of all, call back to “Teacher’s Pet”, am I right?
Jenny:​ Oh my god, also, how many heads has she taken off?
Kristin:​ Oh, yeah.
Jenny: ​Um… speaking of taking a head off… [Kristin laughs] Do you know
what I could watch all day long? Giles reading the paper while parrying
Wesley’s thrusts.
Kristin:​ [giggles] Yes!
Jenny:​ Not to start any fanfic over here.
Kristin:​ [laughs loudly] Wow, sorry. I had to lean away from the mic for


that guttural laugh.
Jenny: ​Yeah, sorry about that.
Kristin:​ But yeah, this is peak– as much as I just want to snap Wesley in
half, this is peak Wesley comedy. I mean, he really–
Jenny:​ He’s so funny.
Kristin:​ Alexis Denisof really nails these Wesley moments where they go
through this whole thing, like, they’re fencing and that’s funny, but then
they get to a conclusion, then Wesley summarizes the whole thing and then
whips his fencing– what do you call it?
Jenny:​ Foil.
Kristin:​ Foil, into the air and pops it down onto the ground, and it’s just
ridiculous. He’s just ridiculous.
Jenny: ​Yeah, he’s a total caricature. But, hey! Anya’s got some information
for the group.
Kristin:​ Yes! Oh, before we get to Anya, though, I just want to say, Wesley
is a joke for pretty much all of time, but he does say to Buffy, “Don’t let your
feelings for Faith get in the way of your job,” and I was just like, what do
you mean? What feelings, Wesley? Do you want to say a little bit more about
those feelings? Just wondering.
Jenny:​ Kissing feelings? Be more specific.
Kristin: ​Are you setting us up for a denouement later? Is the denouement
the top or the bottom?
Jenny:​ I actually don’t know any French. Except for “les indices”
[pronounced undies].
Kristin:​ [Reading definition of denouement] The final part of a play or movie
where the strands of the plot are drawn together and matters are explained
or resolved. The climax of a chain of events. [yells] Nailed it!


Jenny:​ Okay, great! It is not yet time to denouement.
Kristin:​ Okay, right. No, no. We are going to get to that point, but first
Anya, now, you were saying.
Jenny:​ Yeah! You know Lohesh? You know, that four-winged soul-killer from
down the way?
Kristin:​ Yeah!
Jenny: ​Yeah, they’re just talking about Lohesh’s ascension, because Anya
was there. She had some business with a shepherd and the shepherd’s wife,
and it was a whole thing.​ ​[Kristin laughs] And this is where we get this
valuable piece of information for what I believe is the first time, which is that
“You’ve never seen a demon.”
Kristin:​ Yeah. That’s dark.
Jenny:​ All the demons you see are human hybrids, they’re tainted. Pure
demons are different. One of the ways that they’re different is that they are
much bigger.
Kristin:​ Much bigger! This is cool. I like this– it’s not a plot device, but I just
like this mythology, I guess, that we’re learning.
Jenny:​ Totally. All about it.
Kristin:​ And then, not to be out-fucking-done, in walks the fucking Mayor!
Jenny:​ Uh, yeah.
Kristin:​ Like, what a move! This is like a gasp– definitely, I forgot that it
was going to happen the first time we watched the episode and it was a
gasp moment. I can’t imagine watching this in real time. It’s just like, you
don’t– props to Joss Whedon, you know?
Jenny:​ But also if you think about it, like, of course! He’s impervious. Why
wouldn’t he just stroll into the library? Why wouldn’t he know where they


meet?
Kristin: ​Totally! But it’s just, like, it goes against what your brain, as a
viewer, is expecting. The whole thing is like, when they get to the mayor,
when they meet the m– you know? So you don’t expect him to just literally
stroll in during this conversation.
Jenny:​ Yeah, while they’re talking about ascension, ascension, ascension.
Kristin:​ Yeah! And this is a great fucking scene. From the camera work, to
the lines, to the acting, to everything.
Jenny:​ Dude. First of all… [sighs happily] so great. The whole, “the several
races of man shall come together in their terror. Aww, that’s kinda sweet!”
[Kristin laughs] Peak mayor.
Kristin:​ Yes!
Jenny:​ But also, it is kinda sweet. I’m on board.
Kristin:​ [laughs] All it will take is Armageddon to bring this planet together.
How nice.
Jenny:​ When will we really know that it’s Armageddon though?
Kristin: ​Yeah, right? So far, this Armageddon has certainly not brought us
all together.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ Also, the Mayor has this line like, “Spunky girl you got there. ​I’m
gonna eat her.​”​ ​[Jenny laughs] And this brings me one of my favorite
moments in the entire episode. This is like… I’m not nominating myself for
Sexual Tension Award, but this is similar to the feelings I had when Oz
knocked over the vase. When Giles grabs his foil and just ​plunges i​ t into the
mayor’s heart. I’m like, yeah!
Jenny: ​Dad! Work Dad!


Kristin:​ Go ahead, Dad! Kill that man! Kill him, I say! And then the Mayor,
of course, is like… “Whoa!” Which is pretty…
Jenny:​ That’s what I always say when somebody plunges a foil into my
chest.
Kristin: ​Totally. And I mentioned the camera work, I was thinking
specifically about the end of this scene. Because as the Mayor is exiting the
library, he says, “It’s gonna be one heck of a speech.” And as he does it, the
camera’s sort of walking backwards with him as he walks forwards, and then
he passes the camera and it pans up to all of the Scoobies at the table.
Really nice. Just really A+, guys.
Jenny:​ Yeah, I feel like Joss would sit around watching this show get made
and whenever he would make episodes himself, he would be like, “Time to…
I’ve been thinking all season about what kind of wild shit I’m going to get
into directing this ep.”
Kristin:​ Totally. So, there’s this little cutaway of Anya followed by Cordelia
which I found very fun. ‘Cause Anya is this former vengeance demon, tough
as fucking-whatever, and Anya’s like, “Bye. Peace. I’m out. I’ve seen it and
I’m scared.” And then Cordelia is right on her heels and is like, “What’s her
deal?” Xander’s like “Oh, you know, the world is ending.” And she’s like,
“Anyway, what’s happening in 5th period?” You know? She just doesn’t give
a shit at all. So I just like the opposition of the two of them.
Jenny: ​Yeah. Great. Also, Buffy packing a bag for Joyce, who doesn’t get
what’s happening at first, and then kind of puts it together bit by bit. And
Buffy has this great little monologue about how she wishes she could be so
many things for her mom, to make her mom proud or whatever. But there
happens to be one thing that she’s better at than anybody else.
Kristin: ​Yeah. This gave me coming-out narrative feelings. We haven’t
really talked about that much since the end of Season 2, and the beginning
of Season 3…
Jenny:​ Listen, Mom. I’m not a star athlete, and I’m not an amazing
straight-A student, but I can kiss girls. So, great.


Kristin:​ [laughs] You’ve never said that to your mom?! I said that to my
mom all the time. [Jenny laughs] But I am the best at ​one t​ hing, Mom. And
it is kissing girls. [Both laugh] So then, Amy! We haven’t seen Amy in a hot
minute.
Jenny:​ I think there’s a flaw here. I think it’s totally fucking weird that
Willow can float a pencil but she can’t change Amy back–
Kristin:​ Yeah, I agree.
Jenny: ​Slash totally weird that Giles can’t at least help her change Amy
back.
Kristin:​ I think the problem here is not their abilities, Jenny. I think it’s that
nobody cares enough about Amy. You know? I think everybody’s like, “well,
that spell didn’t work.”
Jenny: ​It’s a lot less expensive to feed her if she lives in a Habitrail.
Kristin:​ [Laughs] Okay, so Oz has this really great line in this scene. “Our
lives are different than other people’s.” He just says it. I can’t even– like, I
tried to deliver it without emotion and I couldn’t.
Jenny:​ So dry.
Kristin:​ So dry. But then this is… so this is the sweetest fucking scene in all
of creation. I mean, maybe that’s a little extreme, but I just love this scene.
It’s like, Oz is a particular kind of person. He doesn’t say a lot. Willow is a
particular kind of person. She talks and she talks and she talks and she
talks, and she panics, and as she’s panicking she’s talking. And she turns to
Oz and is like, “Aren’t you going to panic? Why aren’t you saying anything?”
And then she continues to panic, and you just see him look at her and love
her so fucking much. And it’s just really great. I think it’s so sweet. And then
they [yells] do it!
Jenny: ​[Laughs] They do… do I-T, it. And sometimes, in times of crisis,
what can you do?
Kristin:​ What can you do?


Jenny:​ As one tiny human being on the surface of the broad, near-infinite
earth, as far as we can conceptualize. In terms of miles, and square footage
and whatever. Other than… [pauses] bone each other.
Kristin:​ Were you searching through your rolodex of what words you could
use for “doing it”?
Jenny: ​No, no. no. I had “bone” written down.
Kristin:​ [Laughs] Okay, great, great, great. Yeah, so they totally do it and it
is great! I mean, I assume.
Jenny: ​We just assume. We hope.
Kristin:​ Well, they say it’s nice. It’s nice! It’s sweet! They’re in love!
Jenny:​ Yeah, great.
Kristin:​ They love each other!
Jenny:​ Cool.
Kristin:​ [Squeals]
Jenny:​ Meanwhile, Buffy has to pick up some files.
Kristin:​ Oh my god. Oh. My. God. Okay, so if it weren’t for the fight
between Buffy and Faith, this would be my favorite moment in the whole
episode. So, I had watched it right before interviewing Harry Groener, but
Jenny hadn’t. So the scene started and she was putting papers in the box
and I just burst out laughing, and Jenny was like, “What are you laughing
at?” and I was like, “I’m just remembering what’s about to happen.” And
then as soon as I finished talking, Angel barreled around the corner, tripped
over the door frame, and what did we hear in our minds, Jenny?
[Detective Angel jingle plays]
Detective Angel!


Jenny:​ This… stealthy… creature of the night.
Kristin: ​[Laughs] It’s so good! I mean, we talked a little bit in past episodes
about how Angel’s comedy is kicking up a notch, here and there, and this is
that. Now we’re going to physical comedy with Angel.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin: ​And it is hysterical. And then, of course, everybody stops laughing.
We get to the next piece of this scene, which is like, really… so Angel has
just broken up with Buffy.​ ​[Jenny groans]​ ​So he’s like, “I’m gone”, and then
he’s like, “Hi. Can I carry this box of four pieces of paper for you?”​ ​[Jenny
laughs] The fuck, Angel? And it’s frustrating. And Buffy is like, “I’m
frustrated by this because y–”
Jenny: ​Okay, but also, Work Dad totally told Angel to go back her up when
he knows that Angel has left Buffy.
Kristin:​ Aw! Do you think Giles wants them to stay together?
Jenny: ​Oh, no.
Kristin:​ [disappointed] Ohh!
Jenny:​ I don’t think that. I don’t think that’s what’s going on.
Kristin: ​But whatever. This is another 243 year old vs 18 year old. Angel,
come on! And where he really put me over the top in this scene was when
he says to her, “Just because I’m not acting like a brat.”
Jenny:​ [Groans uncomfortably]
Kristin: ​I get it, emotions are high. But you don’t tell the girl whose heart
you just broke that she’s acting like a brat when she’s emotionally
responding to your presence ‘cause it hurts. Like, you know. You know
what’s happening.
Jenny: ​Yeah! He’s being such a jerk, I just want to see him get shot by a
poison arrow or something.


Kristin:​ Oh! Lucky for you, it happens!
Jenny: ​[Feigning surprise] Oh my god!
Kristin: ​And then–
Jenny:​ Oh my god! Oh my god! Oh my god! I don’t know what it’s called. I
don’t know what the technical term is… [cackles loudly]
Kristin:​ Oh boy.
Jenny:​ I’m sorry! But seeing that street sign from so far away, then a half
zoom with the music queue or whatever that is, like [imitating music queue]
And it gets closer, and then closer, and Faith is framed in a letter, probably
an ‘O’.
Kristin:​ A ‘U,’ I think.
Jenny:​ A ‘U’. And it’s her face and some rando vampire. And he’s like,
“Missed the heart.” And instead of being like, “What are you, the narrator?”
[Kristin laughs] She’s like, “Meant to,” because exposition. Cool.
Kristin:​ [Laughs] It’s funny, I wonder why they put that line in, because it
would have been just as dramatic, more dramatic, to find out– to think that
Faith had missed the heart.
Jenny: ​You think not having that incremental zoom up and those two
deadpan lines, you think there is an equally dramatic version of that?
Kristin:​ No, you’re right. You’re right, I’m sorry. I stand corrected. You’re
100% correct.
Jenny: ​Yeah, okay. So, back in the library, right?
Kristin: ​We learn about the lava bed, that’s what he was researching. And
then Angel stands up, and then Angel falls down.
Jenny:​ Okay, and Angel is so sweaty and looks like he’s in so much pain.


And while we were watching this, what I thought about and what I wrote
down, is I want to ask you: is that what I looked like when I had
pneumonia?
Kristin:​ Ooh! Not ​that ​sweaty, but definitely that fucked up. You know?
Like, you definitely–
Jenny: ​[Laughs] That’s actually kind of the best answer I think you could
have given me. Because I really don’t like to be sweaty.
Kristin: ​[Laughs] Yeah I mean I don’t ever remember seeing any person as
sweaty as Angel. Except for Jonathan in the clock tower.
[both laugh]
Jenny: ​Yeah!
Kristin:​ But no, I think you were slightly different than Angel here. One
thing to shout out– I don’t know if people will even care about this shout
out, but there’s a moment before Angel falls, when Buffy is like, “You’ve
been such a klutz today,” and I thought–
Jenny:​ [yelling] Oh my god, oh my god, oh my god! Did you think of Bella
Swan?!
Kristin: ​I did!
Jenny: ​And also, what’s that girl in 50 Shades?
Kristin: ​Oh, is she also a klutz?
Jenny:​ She’s so clumsy.
Kristin:​ Oh my god! She’s clumsy just like Bella ‘cause that’s where it came
from?
Jenny: ​That’s right.
Kristin​: Wow. Yeah, I just thought, what a Twilight role reversal we’re


having here, where the vamp is clumsy.
Jenny: ​Oh my god. Great. So time to eat some spiders.
Kristin:​ Yeah. We talked mostly about Willow and Oz and them doing it and
all that stuff, but we get this really sweet scene where Willow is like,
“Everything feels different”, and “Oh yeah, you’ve already done this, so
probably not for you”, and then Oz is like, “Everything feels different.” Aww!
Jenny:​ I actually am having, I think, the opposite reaction that I should be
having.
Kristin: ​You hate it?
Jenny:​ I don’t hate it! I historically have loved it, but I’m just like… hmm.
Kristin: ​Wow, Jenny! How romantic.
Jenny:​ [Laughs] I know! I’m like, where’s the passion?
Kristin: ​They’re so sweet!
Jenny:​ Stop being so nice to each other.
Kristin:​ Oh my god! Wow!
Jenny:​ [Clears throat] Anyway…
Kristin:​ Cool talk, man.
Jenny:​ Demon spiders!
Kristin:​ Yes, so the Mayor is eating spiders. “Yo, wicked gross.”
Jenny:​ [Laughs] So good! But she says it admiringly.
Kristin: ​Yeah! She’s proud of him.
Jenny:​ And then, she has that… it’s not even a story. It’s just a few


sentences about kids jumping off the quarry rocks.
Kristin:​ Yeah. And she always jumped off the highest one and it wasn’t
anything for her. And it’s just…
Jenny:​ [sadly] I love her!
Kristin:​ I love her, too. I feel like I know and have known people like this.
Jenny:​ Oh, yeah.
Kristin:​ That are transparent, like you can see right through it, that they’re
putting up walls and stuff, and then they have these treasures and soft spots
inside. It just breaks my heart. I love her, too. And I just wish she was
telling somebody else the story about jumping. That’s the thing.
Jenny:​ Exactly. She could tell me.
Kristin: ​Right, I wish she was telling Jenny.
Jenny:​ I’m here for it. We all wish Faith was telling Jenny.[both laugh] Yo.
Really quick point and then something I want to expand on a bunch.
Kristin:​ Yes please.
Jenny:​ The small point is that Willow has a credit account at the magic
shop. We learn when Xander’s like, “I don’t have any money to get the stuff
you want me to pick up,” and Willow is like, “Have ‘em put it on my tab!”
[both laugh]
Kristin:​ Aw, such a witch, that Willow.
Jenny:​ And the thing that I really want to get into here is when Anya finds
Xander and is like, “Run away with me so that you can live. Please.” And
“When I think about the fact that something could happen to you, it feels
bad inside, like I might vomit.” And then as he’s saying, “No, I have to stay
here and help” she gets madder and then she’s like, “I hope you die!” And
then he walks away and she’s like, “Are we gonna kiss?” And this is why… I
know that I’ve been saying that I love Anya so much, forever. And it feels


like I’ve just been– obviously, it’s not a proper spoiler, but just to lay the
track that there’s going to be more depth to Anya that we have not yet seen
and we’re starting just now to see it. She’s like an inside out person.
Kristin:​ Yes. Aw!
Jenny:​ She doesn’t… like, imagine being fully formed. Imagine having
walked the earth for a thousand years, having no memory if you ever had
human emotions. No memory of what they were, and then suddenly being
wrenched from… I mean, all I can think about is being born. You know? And
how babies are pink and helpless and…
Kristin: ​And that’s what her speech patterns follow is of a child who doesn’t
yet understand how emotions work and is just true. Anya is very true.
Jenny:​ Yeah. And is also just like, “What are these? They’re so stupid!”
[Kristin laughs] “But also, are we gonna kiss?”
Kristin:​ Yeah. “But I have them.” Practical note for Anya, ‘cause Anya’s like,
“Yo, I just rolled up in my car and I’m gonna get out of here.”
Jenny:​ She’s got a car!
Kristin: ​And I’m like, wait. Where does Anya live? Where did she get a car?
What the– everybody else, they have parents, they have whatever, but–
Jenny:​ Yeah, meanwhile she– maybe there was a vengeance demon
severance package that comes with a car and an efficiency apartment. And a
weekly stipend.
Kristin:​ [Laughs] So D’Hoffryn–
Jenny:​ D’Hoffryn takes care of his former employees, I think.
Kristin:​ Yeah, that’s amazing. I love that answer, thank you so much.
Jenny:​ You’re welcome.
Kristin:​ So guess what it’s time for. It’s time to play–


Jenny:​ [Yells] It’s time to apply a moist cloth to a sweaty vampire!
Kristin: ​[laughing] Yes! Yes, it is time for that, you’re right.
Jenny:​ What else is it time for?
Kristin:​ It’s time to play a particular jingle that I think coordinates with
Wesley showing up and being like, “The Council won’t fucking give us the
answer to save Angel’s life.” Because you know what the Council is? The
Council’s a bunch of patriarchal bullshit. Play it, Jenny!
[The Patriarchy jingle plays; spooky music, Jenny saying “The
Patriarchy!” and evil laughter]
Jenny:​ Yeah, the Council’s trash.
Kristin:​ Yeah. And what’s great about the Council being trash and us
playing the patriarchy jingle is that it gets smashed out of the fucking park
in this scene.
Jenny:​ Oh yeah!
Kristin:​ This scene rules.
Jenny:​ Yeah. I mean, it’s gutting, and then it’s like, fuck yeah.
Kristin:​ Right? There’s so many things happening. Buffy is taking her power
and owning it. And she’s like, “Hey, I just realized something. Bye!”
Jenny:​ Ha!
Kristin:​ Like, “I have the power, so go fuck yourselves!” And then, not only
do we get this beautiful gem, but we then pan out to see Giles, who’s like,
“Fuck yeah, Buffy!” So excited, so on her side.
Jenny:​ Yeah, he’s totally having the adult moment– of the version of the
moment that he had in “Band Candy” after she punches Ethan and he jumps
up in the air.


Kristin:​ Yes! Yes, totally. [Laughs] Yeah, and there’s this amazing line from
Buffy: “I have a strategy, and you’re not in it.”
Jenny:​ Ahh!
Kristin:​ Oh, burn! Bye, Wesley! And a great side-by-side where, of course,
Wesley’s like, “This is mutiny!” And then Buffy is like, “I like to call it
graduation.” [Jenny laughs] Sorry that I just reenacted the whole scene for
everybody, but I love it so much.
Jenny:​ It was great. I wish you all could have seen the body language.
[both laugh]
[AD BREAK]
Jenny: ​Today’s episode is brought to you by Pretty Litter. If you have a cat,
then you know, like I do, that the worst part of cat ownership is the
litterbox. But imagine having a lightweight, odorless, dust-free cat litter that
monitors your cat’s health and gets delivered right to your door every
month. That’s Pretty Litter. Pretty Litter solves for the pain of having a litter
box, all while keeping tabs on your cat’s health. It changes colors when it
detects common feline illnesses. It is some straight up sci-fi business.
Typical cat litter is heavy, dusty, smells and you need 30 pounds of it to last
a month. Pretty Litter is lightweight, 80% lighter than other cat litters, in
fact, and one four-pound bag lasts an entire month for one cat. Not to
mention, it has the best odor control of any other cat litter and it’s dust-free.
No more dusty, smelly cat boxes. Pretty Litter even ships right to your door
for free. Choose your ship dates, skip a month, cancel any time. No tricks,
no hassle, just a better cat litter delivered when you need it. Discover the
world’s best cat litter today. Go to prettylitter.com and use code “Buffy” to
get 20% off your first order. That’s prettlitter.com, use code “Buffy.”
Today’s episode is also brought to you by Audible. Audio books are great for
helping you be a better you. Whether you wanna feel healthier, get
motivated or learn something new. And with an unmatched selection of
audio books, original audio shows, news, comedy and more, Audible has all
the audio content you need to start your year on the right foot. Try a book


like ​Homegoing​ by Yaa Gyasi. I’m in the middle of it right now and it’s
available on Audible and it is so gorgeous and heartbreaking and it’s one of
the best things I’ve read in a really, really long time. It’s one of the many,
many, many, many, many books that you can get at via Audible.
Whether it’s on your phone, through your car, from a tablet or at home on
an Amazon Echo– wow!– you can get through tons of books while doing
almost anything. And Audible lets you switch seamlessly between devices,
picking up exactly where you left off. Start a 30-day trial and your first audio
book is free. Go to audible.com/buffering or text “Buffering” to 500500.
That’s audible.com/buffering or text “Buffering” to 500500 for a 30-day trial
and free first audio book.
[END AD BREAK]
Jenny:​ So.
Kristin: ​So.
Jenny:​ Guess what?
Kristin:​ Oh man.
Jenny:​ The only cure for this sweaty, sallow vampire–
Kristin:​ It’s almost like we’re watching a television show.
Jenny:​ Yeah, almost. Is that he has to drain the blood of a slayer. And Buffy
is like, “Okay, I know where I can get that!”
Kristin:​ Yeah, so right. Buffy’s gonna kill Faith. This is what is revealed. And
she means business. And we know when she means business, she’ll get you
to prom, she’ll kill Faith. She’s not fucking around. Also, just a small shout
out to Xander’s line that made me laugh a lot. “Come on, the suspense is
killing Angel!” [both laugh] It’s just really good. So yeah, I guess Buffy’s
going to go kill Faith. Let’s see what happens.
Jenny:​ What do you think about Xander being like, “I don’t want to lose
you”?


Kristin:​ Oh, so I actually have a lot of thoughts about this.
Jenny:​ Cool.
Kristin:​ Because I think it’s a really, really amazing moment for him. He is
speaking about the psychological damage that will happen to Buffy when she
kills Faith. And he knows– and I do think that everybody is aware of it to
some point, but it is very Xander, and normally that sentence ends with
something ridiculously bad, but this one doesn’t. I think it is very Xander for
him to be the one to say this. He says a lot of shit that we get really mad
about, but with that comes the fact that he is the one that’s gonna say to
Buffy, “hey, I don’t want to lose you. And no, I don’t mean you’re going to
die”.
Jenny:​ Right.
Kristin:​ I loved it. I think it’s a really beautiful moment. I think it’s a really
beautiful friendship moment between the two of them.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ What do you think?
Jenny:​ Mostly that. But also… I mean, I guess this is a great moment for
Xander… but…
Kristin: ​[Laughs loudly] Jenny is squirming in her seat saying this!
[Mimicking Jenny] “I guess…” [groans]
Jenny:​ I mean, all of that is accurate. He’s the last person I want to see
telling Buffy what’s what.
Kristin:​ Yeah, but he does.
Jenny:​ Yeah, but he does, and he’s right, and it’s fine.
Kristin:​ You’ve gotta give him credit where credit is due.


Jenny:​ [resentfully] Fine!
Kristin:​ Don’t worry, there’s not a Xander jingle coming. You know what I
mean?
Jenny:​ I know what you mean.
Kristin:​ We’ll keep it together.
Jenny: ​Okay, but actually, we can’t keep it together.
Kristin:​ Okay, you’re right, ‘cause we are about to go into a montage scene!
Jenny:​ [Screams]
Kristin:​ Wait, before we go into the montage scene, ‘cause then it’s all lost.
Willow– I just want to give Willow some credit or give Alyson Hannigan some
credit for this incredible sex face that she makes at the computer when Oz–
Jenny:​ [Laughing] Oh my god!
Kristin:​ She’s just had sex for the first time, and Oz barely touches her hair,
and she’s like [moans]. [both laugh] I see you Willow, and you did a great
job, Alyson Hannigan.
Jenny:​ Great. Job.
Kristin:​ Now we may go into the belly of the beast.
Jenny:​ Wow.
Kristin:​ Beginning with the montage, which I wrote, “Montage! Fighting!
Prepping! Sweating!” Angel is doing the sweating.
Jenny:​ Right, right, right.
Kristin:​ Faith is doing the fighting and Buffy is looking in the mirror.
Jenny:​ Oh, yeah! Have we ever seen Buffy look in the mirror before like


that?
Kristin:​ I don’t know! The only vision I had of Buffy looking in the mirror
was when she was holding whats-her-faces face in the “Beauty and the
Beasts,” in the mirror. But, yeah, no. She’s psyching herself up, you know?
Jenny:​ So intense! You know when you’re like, the one girl in all the world
chosen to have the power to fight the vampires and forces of darkness.
Kristin:​ Sure, yeah.
Jenny:​ Okay, but then you die… for just like a minute.
Kristin:​ Right.
Jenny:​ And then Kendra the vampire slayer is called, and you’re like,
“What’s up, Kendra? We could learn from each other! This rocks!” But then
Kendra dies! And we miss her a lot, but then in her place is called one Faith
Lehane. The bruiser from Boston who makes her way to Sunnydale wearing
a boob window, talking about wrestling alligators and doing stuff in the nude
and whatever. And at first, it’s really hard to feel like you’re getting
single-white-femaled out of your own life, but then ultimately, you find
common ground. And then ultimately, you find even more common ground
and you take a walk on the wild side with Faith Lehane, and then [screams].
Kristin:​ [Laughs loudly]
Jenny:​ But then it ends poorly because it’s too intense, and nothing so
intense can last forever! Unless it can, but probably it can’t. And then you
part ways and it’s very sad and dark, and oh, you miss her but there’s no
way to get back to each other. But then you go back to your undead lover
who’s 243 years old, but then he is leaving you because he knows he’s no
good for you and he’s trying to do the right thing! Even though he loves you
more than undeath itself! And then Faith, your ex, shoots Angel, your ex?
With a poisoned arrow? And the only thing that can cure Angel, your ex, is
the blood of Faith, your ex?! Ahhhhhh! What’s a girl to do?
Kristin: ​Wow! You know what? I really think that should be the “previously
on” because that was– my face hurts from smiling so much.


Jenny:​ Or I could just play some piano underneath that and that could be
the song for this week.
Kristin:​ [Laughs] Perfect! Done! Yeah, I do know just what that must feel
like, Jenny. I mean, it’s very common.
Jenny:​ I mean, we’ve all been there. It’s classic. It’s universal.
Kristin:​ Coming of age, you know? Gotta go through it.
Jenny:​ It’s like… fucking… Catcher in the Rye, you know? [Pauses] I’m
desperately trying to think of other coming of age tales.
Kristin:​ A Tree Grows in Brooklyn.
Jenny:​ Sure.
Kristin:​ Cool, we’re well read.
Jenny:​ [Intentionally clears throat]
Kristin:​ Anyway, Faith is eating a twizzler. Holy shit!
Jenny:​ [Makes noises of excitement and laughs]
Kristin:​ Oh! My! God! I thought–
Jenny:​ [Still screaming] Wait! Wait!
Kristin:​ Okay, sorry, I just– okay.
Jenny: ​Just wait! Faith is eating [clears throat]... [quietly] a twizzler.
Kristin:​ Faith is eating a twizzler and in my mind during this scene, I
thought, “Jenny and I should release an audio clip of just our commentary
from the twizzler moment until Faith jumps into the truck.”
Jenny:​ [laughs] Oh my god.


Kristin:​ Just ‘cause I feel like it’s good ‘cause there’s not a lot of speaking.
It’s mostly just instrumental, so I think our response would lay over it nicely.
Jenny:​ We could fill that in no problem.
Kristin:​ Faith is eating a fucking twizzler! Laying on her bed, with her feet
up! [Screams]
Jenny:​ There ought to be a law.
Kristin: ​And then in walks who, but Buffy!
Jenny:​ Is it Buffy? How can you tell?
Kristin:​ I can’t tell ‘cause she’s wearing Faith’s clothing! [Jenny laughs]
She’s wearing Faith’s clothing! She’s like, “Oh yeah! You wanted me to be
like you, and now here I am!”
Jenny:​ Wait, wait, wait! Important question!
Kristin:​ Yes.
Jenny:​ She’s wearing red leather pants and a black leather jacket, and
where did she get them? Did she borrow them from Faith while they were
dating, or did she sneak into Faith’s apartment, put them on really quietly– I
can’t imagine anyone putting on that much leather quietly, but let’s just say
she’s a slayer, so she’s very stealthy, fine. Way more stealthy than some
people in this episode I can think of. [Kristin laughs] Is that what she did?
Did she–
Kristin:​ You know what I think? Honest to God? I think she went to the
damn store to buy this outfit. I think she was looking in the mirror, she was
psyching herself up, and she was like, “You know what I see?”
Jenny:​ “Something’s missing!”
Kristin: ​Yeah! “I gotta get into her skin! And I know what her skin is, it’s
leather!”


Jenny: ​[yells] Whoa! Whoa! Whoa!
Kristin: ​What?
Jenny: ​“Gotta get into her skin” So… I’m sorry for all of the yelling.
Kristin:​ I have an erotic novel.
Jenny:​ Thank God.
Kristin:​ I believe it’s my final erotic novel of the season. [Clears throat]
“You told me I was just like you. That I was holding it in. Ready to cut loose?
Try me. Okay, then. Give us a kiss.” Bum, bum, bum!
Jenny:​ Is there any way that you could add an epilogue to your erotic
novel?
Kristin:​ What is your epilogue?
Jenny:​ Just the clink of handcuffs closing around someone’s wrist.
Kristin:​ [Laughs] Yes! In this telling, I can. In the printed version, probably
not. But you just imagine it there in the printed version. But yes. Yeah, I
have a huge note about the handcuffs. I wrote in all caps, “Handcuffs! Just
like old times!”
Jenny:​ Oh my god!
Kristin:​ Oh yeah! Buffy was like, “Let me get those handcuffs I kept from
my first date with Faith.”
Jenny:​ Or are they the handcuffs she borrowed from Joyce?
Kristin:​ Oh god. They’re probably all the same handcu– no, because the
handcuffs were new from the cops the second time.
Jenny:​ Hmmm.


Kristin:​ I don’t know. I think she kept them. I think she has a Faith box if
you know what I mean.
Jenny:​ [gasps in delight]
Kristin:​ Yeah, you know what I mean. Keeping the mixtapes that Faith–
Jenny:​ Remember having a box of someone?
Kristin:​ Yes.
Jenny:​ [makes sound of disgust]
Kristin:​ What? You don’t like it? It’s great.
Jenny:​ Not anymore, I don’t like it.
Kristin:​ I mean, but you’re in high school! And you have a crush on Faith!
And Faith is doing things with you and you’re excited so you make a box!
Jenny:​ Yeah and that one time you guys got arrested while you were
breaking and entering into a bait and tackle and sporting goods store and
then you got put in the back of a cop car and then you use your slayer
strength to simultaneously kick the back of the cop seats so the car crashes
and then you get out and you–
Kristin: ​Jenny!
Jenny:​ [yelling] You use the keys to unlock each other's handcuffs while
you’re back to back?! Ahhh!
Kristin:​ Wow. Jenny has really gone off the deep end, everyone.
Jenny:​ [laughing] Yeah, it’s over for me.
Kristin:​ So there’s this fight scene. But I love that in the fight scene, there’s
these moments that could also happen if they were not fighting, but fucking.
Jenny:​ Oh, my. Oh, heavens. I’m scandalized.


Kristin:​ Okay, because there is this moment where they pause in the middle
of the fight and Faith is like, “Not getting tired, are you? I’m just starting to
feel it.”
Jenny:​ Ahhh!
Kristin:​ And I’m like, “Oh really?” Just saying.
Jenny:​ Wow!
Kristin:​ There’s a lot of sexual things here, you know?
Jenny:​ No, you’re right.
Kristin:​ Buffy’s got Faith’s knife…
Jenny:​ Ummm…
Kristin:​ Buffy puts the knife…
Jenny:​ Gotta go! Gotta go!
Kristin:​ Listen, I have a graduate degree and I know that people with
graduate degrees, they all write papers like this all the time. They’re like,
“and the knife is a symbol of the phallus and...” [Both laugh] I don’t know
what I just said. I feel like I just broke our patriarchal smashing by calling
that knife a phallus.
Jenny:​ Yeah, the jingle doesn’t work anymore. We’re fucked.
Kristin:​ I know, I’m sorry. Shit. I was just trying to be funny, guys!
Anyway. Let’s just take it through to the end of this fight, yeah?
Jenny:​ Please.
Kristin:​ So, Faith is like, “That’s my knife.” And Buffy’s like, “Well, you’re
about to get it back.”


Jenny:​ [Yells] No!
Kristin:​ And this is really a lot to handle, because of what Xander said.
That’s what’s happening in this scene. Faith and Buffy definitely are
enemies. They definitely are ex lovers. Whatever. Best friends, whatever!
Whatever you want to call them. They had a very intense and a very
connected relationship. They’re the only two slayers in the world, they’re the
only two people who can understand a lot about each other. And this fight is
intense but Buffy isn’t sure. She says she’s sure, but she’s not sure if she’s
gonna do it, and Faith is certainly not sure that Buffy’s gonna do it.
Jenny:​ Do you think Faith is kind of hoping that Buffy does it?
Kristin:​ Oh god, that’s so dark.
Jenny: ​Sorry.
Kristin:​ I don’t know! In a way, because the thing is, right? Ugh, Jenny! The
thing is that if Buffy does that, it means that Faith hasn’t been wrong this
whole time.
Jenny:​ Ahhhhh!
Kristin:​ Ohhh noooo! Oh no, that’s even more heartbreaking than I thought
it was initially. I mean, that’s why Buffy put on the leather pants. That’s why
all these things happened is that she was trying to step into Faith’s
experience. That she could do this thing that Buffy might not have been able
to do, but Faith would have been able to do. So I don’t know that Faith
wanted to die, but I do think that Faith probably– you know, you can see it
in her face, that she gets some validation from it, even though the result of
it is that she’s going to die.
Jenny:​ Yeah! When she says, “You did it,” she looks happy.
Kristin: ​Happy, like “I knew! I fucking told you this whole time that there’s
an animalistic part of this that you can do things that you don’t want to do
and it’s in you!” And it is.
Jenny:​ Now, question.


Kristin:​ Yes.
Jenny: ​After she says, “You did it, you killed me”, then Faith goes on to say,
“Still won’t help your boy though. Should’ve been there, B. Quite a ride.”
Kristin: ​Right.
Jenny:​ “Should have been there, B, quite a ride.” Do you think she’s talking
about watching Buffy stab her? What she’s perceiving as a profound change
in Buffy? Like, she’s bearing witness– the only witness to…
Kristin:​ Right, so the first part obviously is because she is gonna toss her
body onto a moving truck which is, whatever.
Jenny:​ Right. All of that. But, “Should have been there, B. Quite a ride” is
the thing that–
Kristin:​ Yeah, I don’t know. When she said it, I don’t think this is the
intentionality, but I think ‘cause my heart was breaking for Faith when I
heard her say that line, I thought what she was saying was like, “You should
have been there for me.”
Jenny:​ Also, true. Your guest room should have been there for me.
Kristin:​ Right! Or you should have been– again, I don’t know that this is
what that line is, I don’t think it is. But I just feel like Buffy should have
been there for her in ways that she wasn’t. A lot of people should have been.
From her very first days on the planet, it seems. People should have been
there for her and weren’t. But then, “quite a ride” I think is just her
reflecting on the ‘previously on’, you know? [Both laugh]
Jenny:​ Faith’s greatest hits!
Kristin:​ Yeah! She’s like, “Wow, remember that boob window? That was
great!” [Jenny laughs] “Remember that time we danced at the Bronze? That
ruled!”
Jenny:​ Wow!


Kristin:​ Quite a ride.
Jenny: ​I mean, whatever.
Kristin:​ And then she falls off the building.
Jenny: ​Dude.
Kristin:​ And then you’re like, “Oh my god, what’s going to happen?” And it’s
like, fuck you, “to be continued”! What?!
Jenny:​ How dare you?
Kristin:​ How dare you, Joss? How dare you?
Jenny:​ [Takes a deep breath]
Kristin:​ The only two things that we didn’t talk about that I have in my
notes. One is that there’s a moment in the library between Xander and Giles
where they find the demon and they– it’s like the oldest book in all time, but
it has a centerfold for the demon, which I really like.
Jenny:​ [Laughing] It keeps folding out, and Xander is like, “We’re going to
need a bigger boat.” It’s so good. Also, just before this happens, Xander is
like, [laughing] “Boy, it’s a good thing that no one ever wanted to check any
of these books out!” And Giles is like, “Yes, it’s very convenient”.
Kristin:​ [Laughs] And the other thing is just this moment– it’s just a small
moment, but the mayor is eating these disgusting spiders. Disgusting. And
there’s a vampire standing in the room who’s so grossed out by watching the
mayor.
Jenny:​ [Laughs] Yeah but can’t look away.
Kristin:​ And then the other vamp comes in and he’s like, “There’s trouble at
Faith’s,” which I just feel like is an important thing to note, that they’re
watching Faith and they’ve reported this to the mayor.


Jenny:​ Also, check out Mayor Wilkins being like, “My organs are shifting,
merging, making ready for the ascension.” Like he’s preparing for his poetry
reading at the espresso pump.
Kristin:​ [Laughs] Oh my god, he’s exactly the kind of mayor that would do
a poetry reading at the espresso pump. Being part of the community.
Jenny:​ Mm-hmm.
Kristin: ​Yeah, so, “holy shit, holy shit, holy shit, holy shit, holy shit, holy
shit,” is really what I have to say.
Jenny:​ It’s a lot.
Kristin:​ It’s really a lot. This is what season Faith has been leading us to
this whole time. You know?
Jenny: ​Oh my god. I feel embarrassed about how much I yelled during this
episode.
Kristin:​ No, Jenny. You shouldn’t feel embarrassed, but I’m glad that you’re
letting everyone know ‘cause they can all tell you that you yelling is the best
part of their day. [Jenny laughs] And mine! Your summaries. One day,
somebody out there will put together all of your summarizations of various
episodes or whatever, ‘cause it’s just very special. And so are you.
Jenny:​ Aww.
Kristin: ​You know. Happy Graduation Day.
Jenny:​ Happy Graduation Day.
Kristin: ​Thank you so much.
Jenny:​ This has been so nice.
Kristin:​ It’s been so lovely. Um, Jenny, this is embarrassing.
Jenny:​ Tell me everything.


Kristin:​ We’ve forgotten something.
Jenny:​ How can we have forgotten? The episode’s still happening.
Kristin:​ Oh! Well then we haven’t forgotten.
Jenny:​ Hmm.
Kristin:​ [Laughs] You’re right, we didn’t just come back.
Jenny:​ We’ve been saving something special for the end.
Kristin:​ Yes. Yes, very special, which is the Sexual Tension Award.
Jenny:​ Wow.
Kristin:​ I know who I’m giving it to, unless you have a strong argument.
Jenny: ​Tell me, make your case, and then we’ll talk about it.
Kristin:​ Okay, fair. I would like to give this Sexual Tension Award to Willow
and Oz. I know it kind of goes against what the Sexual Tension Award–
Jenny:​ Flies in the face of everything the Sexual Tension Award is supposed
to mean!
Kristin:​ But I believe in them. You’re right, it should go to Buffy and Faith.
Jenny:​ But also, the hair touch at the computer is really… that’s the spot.
Kristin:​ I know! But here’s the dilemma. I want it to go to Willow and Oz. I
think it’s really nice and whatever. But this is a very pivotal episode for Buffy
and Faith, so let’s play the jingle and we’ll decide while it plays.
[Sexual Tension Award jingle plays]
Sexual Tension Award!
Kristin:​ Jenny and I have had a four-second discussion while that jingle


played, and we discussed the fact that both of us had thought the word
“penetration” many times, but hadn’t said it, and–
Jenny:​ Inappropriate! But at a time like this, when Faith’s future is
uncertain.
Kristin:​ I feel close to our listeners and I feel like we can be our true selves
with them.
Jenny:​ Wow.
Kristin:​ And these are the things that we’re thinking, so we’re gonna say
them. And we don’t know if we will ever have the chance to give the Sexual
Tension Award ever again to Buffy and Faith. Plus, Faith was eating a
twizzler and Buffy was wearing red leather pants.
Jenny:​ [Yelling] Oh, god! I forgot about that! Why didn’t you say that
during the discussion?! Obviously, that’s done, done, done, done!
Kristin:​ So, congratulations. Buffy, we’ll send you your trophy. Faith, you’re
kind of a moving target right now.
Jenny: ​Yeah, we’re just gonna leave it in a locker at the city bus station.
Kristin:​ [Laughs] Yeah, the code is 5-5-5. Get it?
Jenny:​ [Laughs] Oh my god.
Kristin:​ For five-by-five?
Jenny:​ I get it.
Kristin:​ Cool. [Both laugh] And with that, we will commence “Graduation
Day Part 1.”
Jenny:​ You mean conclude?
Kristin:​ [embarrassed] Whoops! [laughs]


Jenny:​ [Laughs] We could start again at the beginning?
Kristin:​ No, this is good.
Jenny:​ Well, you might not have been able to tell for this whole episode,
‘cause all I’ve been doing is screaming at the top of my lungs, but I’m Jenny
Owen Youngs. And when I’m not making this podcast with Kristin, I make
songs. And you can hear some of them at JennyOwenYoungs.com/Buffering.
You can always speak to me, gently, on Twitter @JennyOwenYoungs.
Kristin:​ Yes, and I am Kristin Russo. You can find out all about me over on
my website kristinnoeline.com, that’s k-r-i-s-t-i-n-n-o-e-l-i-n-e. And you can
learn about the work that I do with LGBTQ communities. You can also find
me on Twitter or on Instagram @kristinnoeline.
Jenny:​ Buffering the Vampire Slayer, that’s this podcast that you’re
listening to, is on Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram @bufferingcast and also
we receive emails at a very special place called
bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin:​ We do!
Jenny:​ If you like what we do here and you want to support us, there are a
few ways you can do that should you be so inclined. Wow. First of all, you
can join us as a monthly supporter on Patreon, where subscribers get access
to things like the songs that we write and record every week before anybody
else can get them, or periodic group Buffy Watches where we all get
together and watch an episode of ​Buffy​ via the internet and talk about it.
Wow, delightful. You can learn more about that by visiting
bufferingthevampireslayer.com and clicking on Patreon where everything is
outlined in beautiful, glorious detail.
You could also rate and review us on iTunes, that helps other people find the
podcast which rocks and helps to expand our community, which is a
delightful thing for you to help us do. Thanks in advance. And you can
always help us and help yourself by snagging some merchandise from our
store. Oh my gosh, don’t you want to wrap yourself in things that say
“smash the demon lizard patriarchy” and “Willow in the streets, Vampire
Willow in the sheets”? We have so many things. You can look upon all of


them and purchase them if you so wish by visiting
bufferingthevampireslayer.com and clicking on Shop. Okay! Oh God! Until
next time…
Jenny & Kristin: ​Awwoooooo!
[Jenny performing “Graduation Day (Part 1)” off the album “Songs from
Season 3” by ​Buffering the Vampire Slayer​]
It all comes down, can’t get my head around
where I might be this time next week
And I get stuck pulling myself back up
I don’t know which way I should be
Only a matter of time, time, time
til the split works its way out from inside
Still right now, rooting my anger out
I wanna tell you I’m alright
But I can’t reach you and all I have left to do
is circle and spin, how can I choose
Only a matter of time, time, time
til the split works its way out from inside
Only a matter of time, time, time
til I split, I get broken all right right right
time, time

