Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 0.14: Welcome to the Mailbag Vol 6
Jenny:​ Hello, and welcome to this very special mailbag episode of Buffering the
Vampire Slayer, a podcast where we are totally reading your emails and responding
to them.
Kristin:​ Yeah!
Jenny:​ I’m Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin:​ Oh my gosh and I’m totally Kristin Russo.
Jenny:​ Yes.
Kristin:​ And this week we are discussing mailbag episode mailbag, written and
directed by mailbag.
Jenny:​ And originally aired on mailbag, mailbag.
Both:​ Mailbag mailbag.
Jenny:​ Yes.
Kristin:​ It starts to fall apart I guess, but thanks for sticking with us.
Jenny:​ Yeah!
Kristin:​ So this is really exciting, as you all or many of you know, we normally do
mailbag episodes for our Patreon supporters at the ten dollar level or higher. We
took september off and we’re gonna be coming back hot into your earbuds on
October 3rd–
Jenny:​ Hot into your earbuds!
Kristin:​ Yeah that’s right! But before we do that we thought it would be nice to
give a little to the people with a mailbag episode, and boy do we have some really
fun emails from all of you.
Jenny:​ I can’t wait to experience all of them for the first time right now.
Kristin:​ [Laughs]


Jenny:​ Kristin organizes them.
Kristin:​ I believe that somebody actually, in one of the emails, references you not
reading the emails, so it’s really becoming a thing for everyone, Jenny.
Jenny:​ Everybody has their strengths, everybody has their place in this world, and
mine is not reading the emails before we tape the mailbag episodes.
Kristin:​ Which, you know, has its ups and downs too because one of the positives
is thatJenny:​ Yeah, element of surprise!
Kristin:​ Precisely! And the first email that I have actually— I’m excited about two
emails for the element of surprise for Jenny. One comes later but the first one I’m
actually pretty excited about too. I don’t think that I told you about this, Jenny.
This email comes from Emma and Emma said, “You posted on Facebook the other
day about who would be an ideal guest to get on the podcast, and quite a few
people suggested Juliet Landau. This brought back a memory I had of attending a
con’ some years ago where she was one of the guests. She was incredible! She
came onto the stage to rapturous applause, as you can imagine, but she just stood
there at the edge of the stage staring out into the audience, not saying a word. A
hush fell over the audience as we wondered what was going on, and then she
started swaying and she said, [Drusilla voice] “Look Spike, look at all the people.”
[Laughs]”
Jenny:​ [Muffled] Oh my god!
Kristin:​ Can you even?! The email continues, “Everyone in the audience collectively
gasped and then started cheering; a seriously hair-raising moment and one that
still gives me goosebumps when I think about it.” [Laughs]
Jenny:​ I just got goosebumps and the hair on the back of my neck stood up.
Kristin:​ Right?! It’s pretty—
Jenny:​ Very effective, Juliet!
Kristin:​ I know!
Jenny:​ Thank you, Emma.


Kristin:​ And we’re going to see Juliet in London when we’re in London for the
Vampire Ball at the end of November/beginning of December. So I’m just like pretty
stoked to find out what kind of antics she might be up to when we are there in
person.
Jenny:​ Oh yeah!
Kristin:​ And will we get to play her Drusilla jingle for her? Like, what is going to
happen?
Jenny:​ Oh my goodness!
Kristin:​ Right?!
Jenny:​ Let it be so!
Kristin:​ OK, next up we’ve got an email from an anonymous, semi-anonymous
person, who is a writer on the upcoming Netflix series ‘She Ra’. I don’t know if any
of your watched ‘She-Ra’ as a child. I certainly did.
Jenny:​ Is that how you say ‘She-Ra’? You say the ‘Ra’ so— with an emphasis that I
don’t recognize. [Laughs]
Kristin:​ Well I know that later we have an email from someone called Shira,
S-H-I-R-A, so I’m like really going out of my way to pronounce them differently.
Jenny:​ [Laughs]
Kristin:​ So ‘She-Ra’, this is specifically ‘The Princess of Power’, that ‘She-Ra’. So,
this writer, appropriately, writes, “Big Buffering fan over here and I just wanted to
let you know how much your work has been helping me. I write for the upcoming
‘She-Ra’ reboot for Netflix and I’ve been sending some of the songs from the
Season Three album around to the rest of the team for inspiration. Without giving
too much away, because I think you should watch our series, it’s literally just a
pack of princesses of all shapes and sizes beating the shit out of robots and the
patriarchy.”
Jenny:​ [Laughs]
Kristin:​ Sounds amazing! “We have a few characters with complicated
relationships, including one reminiscent of Buffy and Faith.” I don’t know what you
could be referencing here. “And I’ve been listening non-stop to ‘Enemies’ and


‘Consequences’ to get me in the right mindset. But here’s hoping everyone on our
show can avoid falling out of any windows onto trucks.” Isn’t this so fun?
Jenny:​ That sounds amazing. I was already excited to watch this show and now
I’m real pumped!
Kristin:​ I just love when like art begets art begets art begets art. You know what I
mean? It’s like, Buffy the Vampire Slayer was a television show, then Kristin and
Jenny made a podcast and wrote some songs, and then now, somebody is listening
to those songs to help inspire them for creation of new characters on a new
television show. It’s just— I just love it!
Jenny:​ It’s pretty sick.
Kristin:​ Right?
Jenny:​ Yeah, that’s so awesome! Thank you for letting us know! That rules!
Kristin:​ Yeah! And those complicated-relationship princesses are gonna be
inspiring some eight-year-old somewhere and it’s going to be their root for later
when they create some new series in twenty years. You know? It’s just like—
fucking cool! It’s fucking cool!
Jenny:​ Wow. Yes. Complicated-relationship princesses, that sounds like a reality TV
show actually.
Kristin:​ [Laughs]
Jenny:​ OK, our next email comes from Matt, who writes, “With regards to the news
that the Buffy reboot will be a continuation, I am hoping that we get two gay dads
and a female watcher.”
Kristin:​ I’m here for that. Right?
Jenny:​ I’m here for that. “I’m also hoping Spike becomes human so that he can
pop up and have a reason for his slight change in appearance. Would you want to
see cameos from the old cast? Or leave it as its own thing?”
Kristin:​ Yeah, what do you think, Jenny? Do you have thoughts on this?
Jenny:​ Hmmm. I think a cameo in a reboot could be a very very very special thing,
but it has to be exactly right, and I don’t know what precisely that is, but it’s
definitely like a one-episode, kind of like, maybe meaningful but not overtly
meaningful, character appearance, you know? Some random magic shop owner


who bumps into one of the new characters and inadvertently gives them exactly the
information that they need at exactly the right time. Something like that I would be
down for. But not like, Sarah Michelle Gellar is a watcher that, you know, is in a
bunch of episodes in a row and is not at all Buffy.
Kristin:​ Right.
Jenny:​ That feels weird.
Kristin:​ Oh, yeah, certainly. Oh my god, imagine they put Sarah Michelle Gellar in
the show but she didn’t play Buffy, that would be the most hilarious choice of all
time. And they were just like, “They’ll get it, they’ll get it!”
Both:​ [Laughs]
Kristin:​ I’m here for cameos but I agree, I think they obviously need to be done
the right way, but I do think that anyone who says they don’t want any cameos I
think needs to re-examine their feelings, because I think that we all want to have
little morsels of the thing we love in this new thing and we’re afraid. I think a lot of
us are afraid, we don’t want to have characters resurface, characters who we love
and are attached to, and find that they have resurfaced and we don’t identify with
them or we don’t think that they’re the same as they once were, and it feels ruined.
I totally get that fear, but I think that if it is done properly, I will squeal with
camoes.
Jenny:​ Squeal?
Kristin:​ Are you kidding me, if Eliza Dushku appears on that screen, I don’t even
care if it’s bad, I will squ-ee-eal. I will squeal. [Laughs]
Jenny:​ Yeah, just do a good job, show makers! Please!
Kristin:​ Yes, that is all we can ask for. Er, so thank you Matt for writing in with that
question. I wanna just take a little sidebar here for a tiny little email from Heather,
and I shared this on social media so this might not be news to some of you, but I
think to many of you it will be. Heather wrote in after listening to the live-taping of
‘Beer bad’ and said, “I just wanted to tell you I’m very disappointed that you didn’t
refer to the caveman-college-dudes as Bro-Magnons.”
Jenny:​ [Laughs]
Kristin:​ So Heather, I thought your joke was on point enough to be called into a
main-feed episode for all of us to laugh over.


Jenny:​ Yeah, yeah, well played!
Kristin:​ Yeah! Erm, Jenny, here comes the email that I’m really excited to read to
you. You might have an inkling of who might be— Do you have an idea of who
might be the subject of this email that I’m excited to read to you?
Jenny:​ Oh my god, if it’s about Marc Blucas, I’m gonna die!
Kristin:​ Oh my god, it is! OKJenny:​ [Squeals]
Kristin:​ So, Valerie Anne from New York City, who you know, who I know, we
know and love Valerie Anne, wrote into us with a story for you, Jenny.
Jenny:​ I’m ready for it!
Kristin:​ “I was listening to the most recent mailbag episode and I heard your call
for Marc Blucas stories and I realised this opportunity might never come again but
it’s the perfect time to tell my Marc Blucas story, a story I love but rarely get a
chance to tell, so thank you and here we go.”
Jenny:​ [Laughs]
Kristin:​ “I went to college at NYU, whose campus, a term I use extremely loosely,
is generally accepted to be where the largest collection of NYU buildings happen to
be, around the Washington Square Park area. But since it’s not where all of the
buildings are by a long shot, there were NYU buses that acted as free shuttles for
students, to take them to and from their far-flung dorms. One day, I was standing
at the bus stop, minding my own business, when I heard someone say a sentence
that included ‘Marc Blucas’. Now, at the time, it still wasn’t strictly cool to admit you
loved Buffy (hell, maybe it still isn’t, but I no longer care), so it wasn’t every day
that I found a fellow Scooby in the wild.”
Both:​ [Cuckles]
Kristin:​ “My head whipped around and when the girl who said his name found
recognition in my eyes, she ditched her blank-faced friends to tell me the news
instead: Marc Blucas was filming a movie on the very next block, at this very
moment.”
Jenny:​ [Gasps]


Kristin:​ “As I looked with wide eyes in the direction she had pointed, she goes,
‘Should we go see if we can see him?’ and I barely said yes before we were darting
across the stress towards the set. When we got there, we stood on the corner and
did a sweep, ready to have to squint to see a shape that maybe was the man we
knew as Riley, when instead we realized that the towering, broad-shouldered,
bright-eyed man was standing-”
Jenny:​ [Panting]
Kristin:​ [Laughing] “-right there!”
Jenny:​ [Gasps]
Kristin:​ “No more than three feet away, watching us seek him out with an amused
smirk.”
Jenny:​ [Laughs]
Kristin:​ “He closed the distance between us with one easy step and held out his
hand, ‘Hi, I’m Marc,’ he said-”
Jenny:​ Oh my god, Marc!
Kristin:​ [Laughs] “-knowing we knew, but also knowing he had to coax our own
introductions out of our slack-jawed mouths.”
Jenny:​ [Laughing] Oh my god!
Kristin:​ “We spent the next few minutes talking about what he was filing (it was,
‘The Killing Floor’) but then the wildest thing happened, he started asking us
questions, about what out majors were, how we liked living in New York etc.”
Jenny:​ [Swooning] Oh my god, Marc!
Kristin:​ “To my 19-year-old self, this was the most kind and heroic thing a famous
person could do. Anyway, all this to say, I would totally join that ‘Girls who hate
Riley, but love Marc Blucas’ group, though admittedly I didn’t hate Riley until I was
older.” So, Jenny, that one’s for you.
Jenny:​ [Hyperventilating] We’re going to need to stop recording so I can go
breathe into a paper bag for a little while.


Kristin:​ Oh my god, do you just have a little stack of paper bags that say ‘Marc
Blucas - in case of emergency’? ‘In case of Marc Blucas emergency’.
Both: ​[Laughs]
Jenny:​ Hell yeah, somebody get me those bags, please!
Kristin:​ [Laughs] Oh wow, wow. Sorry, I didn’t mean to steal your ‘wow, wow’
thunder there, Jenny.
Jenny:​ No no no, ‘wow, wow’ is for a phrase for everyone, it’s not just for me.
Kristin:​ For the people.
Jenny:​ I’m just spreading it, you know?
Kristin:​ [Sighs] Oh goodness.
Jenny:​ Wow, I don’t know how I’m going to possibly ever read another email out
loud but I’m gonna try right now, after that. [Clears throat] So, Nina writes, “In the
scene with Xander and Giles in Xander’s basement, you mention that Xander’s mom
was acting out of character. This is true, but I believe she is acting out of character
for a reason. Think about it, she’s married to a major douchebag who treats her like
crap and Xander brings home his hot, watcher friend who is just the right age for
under-appreciated wife to appreciate. Hmmmm, of course she offers to make them
fruit punch! This observation brought to you by a woman who is probably right
around the same age as Xander’s mom.”
Kristin:​ [Laughs]
Jenny:​ Niiiice. Mrs Harris is like, ‘Hello British daddy!’
Kristin:​ Oh wow, you just wanted to get a ‘daddy’ in there.
Jenny:​ Now, it’s all I’m trying to do, is get a ‘daddy’ in everywhere.
Kristin:​ Yes, you’ve seen how the masses respond to us saying daddy, so now
you’re really going for it.
Jenny:​ [Laughing] They love it, I’m just trying to give the people what they want.
Kristin:​ [Laughs] I loved this email and also, Nina was not the only one to write in
with this observation, there were several human beings who wrote in and were like


“Erm, ‘scuse me, we know why! We know why she’s making that fruit punch!” So,
sorry for missing that!
Jenny: ​We were like, “Why would a woman make a man fruit punch?”
Kristin:​ [Laughs]
Jenny:​ “What a wild thing to happen! How can we possibly explain this? The
writers must have been high that day!”
Kristin:​ Oh, everyone was like, “They’re a little too queer, they need a little help!”
Jenny:​ [Laughing] Yeah, a little too queer!
Kristin:​ “They need a little help to remember that heterosexuality is still actually a
thing.”
Both:​ [Laughs]
Kristin:​ I’m here for the spin-off fan fic’ of Xander’s mom and Giles with fruit
punch. Very here for it!
Jenny:​ Oh, geez!
Kristin:​ Oh, speaking of— I didn’t even do this. So, I stagger the emails. I try to
make them go in a nice order, try to drop the Marc Blucas story in at the right
moment etc. I completely didn’t do this fruit punch stack here, but this is a fruit
punch stack. So, we just went from Xander’s mom making fruit punch to an email
from Molly, who says, “Hello Kristin, or is Jenny actually reading emails yet?” Dig!
Dig!
Jenny:​ Never, Molly! Absolutely never!
Kristin:​ Molly says, “Oh my god, I’m so excited to contribute something, I love love
love everything about Buffering, here you go. Fruit punch mouth is a thing.”
Jenny:​ What?!
Kristin:​ “The medical diagnosis of angular cheilitis-” ‘Ch-lit-is’? ‘Ch-lite-is’? I don’t
know.
Jenny:​ I would say ‘ch-lite-is’.


Kristin:​ Ch-lite-is— “The medical diagnosis of angular cheilitis per Wikipedia is,
quote, ‘inflammation of one or both corners of the mouth’ end quote, caused by
malnutrition or anemia. Otherwise known as being a starving vampire! Or, by
misaligned teeth *ahem* vamp fangs!”
Jenny:​ [Gasps]
Kristin:​ Right?! Molly does admit that they are picking and choosing the applicable
bits, but still, “angular cheilitis is more common in the elderly, or you might say,
one of the old ones!”
Jenny:​ [Laughs]
Kristin:​ “It can also be a sign of sensitivity to sun exposure, like a vampire, zinc
deficiency, which also causes alopecia and dermatitis, or B vitamin deficiencies,
with dementia as another comorbidity.” Comorbidity is a word?! OK!
Jenny:​ Woah— apparently!
Krisitn:​ “Thus, crazy, old, bald, rashy, fangy, hungry vampire equals angular
cheilitis.”
Jenny:​ [Laughing] OK!
Kristin:​ So, I’m really here for Molly’s diagnosis of fruit punch mouth— I mean, I
don’t like talking about fruit punch mouth or thinking about it, but in this contextJenny:​ It’s nice to know that it has roots in the real world as well as in the
Buffyverse.
Kristin:​ Right? I agree! One hundred percent! So, thank you, Molly! And Molly also
said as a tag at the end, “This could be something that we mention when we meet
Mark Metcalf in London. We can let-”
Jenny:​ Nice! Let’s grill him! Pardon me sir, were you awareKristin:​ -were you aware of angular cheilitis?
Jenny:​ [Laughs] Was really getting into the skin of someone who was suffering
from angular cheilitis part of your method when you were preparing for the role of
The Master?
Kristin:​ Or we just bring him a t-shirt that says ‘Angular cheilitis’.


Jenny:​ Oh yeah, I’m sure he’s just dying for that!
Kristin:​ Do you think— Actually, I forgot that we have a little jingle even for him.
Jenny:​ [Gasps]
Kristin:​ [Singing] Fruit punch mouth
Jenny:​ Oh yeah. [Singing] Fruit punch mouth
Both: ​[Singing] You’ve got fruit punch mouth!
Both: ​Yeah!
Both: ​[Laughs]
Jenny:​ OK, our next email comes someone who gave their initials as HP, and I can
only assume this is an email from Harry PotterKristin:​ A hundred percent!
Jenny:​ -who wishes to remain anonymous, so everybody be cool!
Kristin:​ [Laughs]
Jenny:​ HP writes, “Teutonic. We all remember way back when Xander and then
Buffy each individually referred to Riley as teutonic.”
Kristin:​ Yes and Kristin then incorrectly defined the word, we remember it. Do we
remember it? We remember it.
Jenny:​ Well, I think we looked it up and the dictionary definition that we located
was—
Kristin:​ [Groans] I think I just probably misread— I think the archaic thing that I
read was probably italicized and meant— You know what I mean?
Jenny:​ Oh!
Kristin:​ I think that I just, I think I was sloppy and I’m admitting it here, I’m
owning-


Jenny:​ [Gasps] How could you?!
Kristin:​ [Laughs] Everyone once in a while, very out of character for me, but every
once in a while I am in a rush, I do something sloppily and this is what I get, Jenny.
This is what I get.
Jenny:​ Well, you’re very busy, you have to read all the emails. I’m just lounging
about.
Kristin:​ [Laughs] Yeah! Goddamnit, yeah, you look up teutonic!
Jenny:​ [Laughs] Alright, well HP is here to save us and writes, “Teutonic means
relating to the Teutons or, more basically, something that seems German. Xander
was just dragging Riley for his Aryan good looks, which is pretty accurate come to
think of it.”
Kristin:​ Yeah. And HP, Harry Potter, wasn’t the only one.
Jenny: ​A lot of people wrote in about this, but where does it come from then that
Buffy says, “That is so Teutonic!” when they’re having that outdoor argument
where they’re both trying to get the other one to go away.
Kristin:​ Right!
Jenny:​ And she says, “You think boys can take care of themselves and girls need
help?” and he says, “Yes” and she says, “That is so Teutonic!”
Kristin:​ Right, well you know what Jenny, I’m not going to be lazy anymore, I’m
going to look it up right now!
Jenny:​ Oh my gosh, what a great idea! I’ll just vamp while you do that!
Kristin:​ Oh yeah?
Jenny:​ How appropriate.
Kristin:​ You’re gonna do that? Go ahead and vamp!
Jenny:​ [Vamps]
Kristin:​ [Laughs]
Jenny:​ [Keeps vamping]


Kristin:​ Yeah!
Jenny:​ [Singing] Dictionary corner.
Kristin:​ Yeah, it just says, “Teutonic: relating to the Teutons” and then, number
two, it says, “Denoting the Germanic branch of the Indo-European language family”
and above that, in italics, it says, “Archaic” andJenny:​ Oh! Ooooh, it’s the archaic— Ok, ok, alright!
Kristin:​ Yes! You see what I’ve done?
Jenny:​ But then, ok, so then I feel like, what is this? Buffy just using a word that
she heard Xander say? Like she interpreted it as one thing and then just said it to
RileyKristin:​ Well, ok ok ok, here, digging a little deeper, and by that I mean I don’t
have my microfiche out, I just went to Wikipedia, it does say, “A German tribe or a
Celtic tribe mentioned by Greek and Roman authors” and then below that it says,
“Furor Teutonicus: a Latin phrase referring to the proverbial ferocity of the
Teutons.” So, maybe there’s a little bit more built into that term. There’s a German
military order called the Teutonic Knights. So maybe not just German, not just that
blonde haired, blue eyed situation, but also maybe something— Because he does
something like— What does he do? He’s gonna storm off and do something to save
her or whatever, so maybe there’s a little bit of ferocity, a little bit of the military
connotation in there. Or maybe Buffy’s just doing what you said and using the word
again because she wants to use it because she likes words.
Jenny:​ I’m willing to accept any of these answers but the thing I’m most willing to
do is to move on and never think about the word ‘Teutonic’ again.
Kristin:​ I know! Except you know what we’ve done is we have now activated the
masses.
Jenny:​ We’ve opened the gates to the hell of Teutonia.
Kristin:​ Pandora’s Teutonic box has been opened.
Jenny:​ [Laughs] Yeah, yeah yeah yeah, check out my new metal band, “Pandora’s
Teutonic box.”
Kristin:​ [Laughs]


Jenny:​ Hell yeah!
Kristin:​ Ok, so, a little short note from Kathryn, but I really thought it was
important to share this with you, Jenny. Kathryn says you’ll get halfway through
the series when you get to season 4, episode 16, ‘Who are you?’
Jenny:​ Oh my god! It’s all downhill from there, Kristin!
Kristin:​ I know! Kathryn seemed to be excited to share this with us, but I was
terrified. I was like, what do you mean?! It can’t be, we can’t be halfway through,
that means it’s- I was so like glass half empty reading this, I was like “No!”
Jenny:​ Well, we could probably, once we finish season 7, we could probably just
keep making mailbags for the foreseeable future.
Kristin:​ [Laughs] Just like every mailbag is more discussion about Teutons and
Teutonic.
Jenny:​ Yes! Yes! And more Marc Blucas stories, please!
Kristin:​ I’m sure it’ll do great. I’m sure people will love that.
Jenny:​ [Laughs] Buffering the mailbag.
Kristin:​ So, I’m going to go to an email now. I’m going to take a sharp turn, a hard
corner, an email from Melanie, and I want to say that Melanie— I actually have a
couple, I have a little bit of an email from Olivia here, we’ll see how much I pull in
from these two, but there were a lot of emails that came in to us, and technically to
Joanna and I, but I wanted to, you know, bring it here to the mailbag and Jenny
you can weigh in here, about our discussion of Oz in the episode ‘Wild at heart’. So,
I’m going to read Melanie’s and then talk a little bit about some of the others, but
they were basically— I feel like Melanie’s kinda almost hit on a lot of the points that
came through. Melanie said, “Since, Like WIllow, I too know the love of a taciturn
man, I think I have a little insight into Oz and his quote ‘out-of.character
behaviour’. When Oz is in a healthy place, he’s able to be assertive about his needs.
This is easier when he understands and accepts his feelings, but as an introvert,
when he is uncomfortable with his feelings and identity, he won’t be open about
them, even with those closest to him, because he needs to figure things out himself
before he can or will talk about them with someone.”
Jenny:​ [Noise of agreement]


Kristin:​ Right?!
Jenny:​ Mmhmm.
Kristin:​ “This explains why he feels he needs to leave and go be away from people
to figure things out. A healthier Oz would have been able to talk to Willow, but this
Oz is ripped apart, not so much by his attraction to Veruca, but more by the allure
of his identity as a werewolf, which he has never really dealt with but has
constantly been plaguing him, at least since he agreed that his ability to smell
Willow was bothering him in ‘Lovers walk’. I would think that his inability to show
emotion just before he drives out of town is very in character for someone who is
not comfortable expressing it. The fact that he had so much trouble with the keys
and getting the car to start are the important, non-verbal cues that say everything
about his toxic state of mind and how upset he is. I completely bought it as Oz, his
more frustrating side that won’t let him express things. I think in short, he just
realized he can’t ignore the werewolf thing anymore and he has more than he can
handle and this is how a taciturn person in those circumstances absolutely would
act.” What do you think, Jenny?
Jenny:​ [Ironically] I can’t possibly relate to any of that.
Kristin:​ [Laughs] You were just quiet, you were trying to get your keys in the
ignition.
Jenny:​ Exactly! Exactly! But I was having a hard time.
Kristin:​ [Laughs] I just, I thought this was really beautiful, like beautifully said,
and, you know, a lot of you wrote in and sort of said, “Hey, maybe it’s taking the
easy way out to say this is out of character for Oz to like have not told Willow etc.
etc.” And I think that Joanna and I, and Jenny I know you heard the episode, like I
think Joanna and I did have room for some of this with Oz and just felt like we
wanted a little bit more of an arc with it. But I do think that we could have given a
little bit more room for this observation, which I think is pretty spot on. What do
you think?
Jenny:​ Yeah, I think this is like a real bullseye, plenty of stuff in here that’s worth
considering, and also, I mean, [ironically] as somebody who can’t possibly relate to
Oz’s methods of dealing with things, at allKristin:​ [ironically] Sure, sure, right.
Jenny:​ Erm, I would also maybe highlight that one thing that Oz is really really
sure of, aside from like, wow, he’s really having to reckon with the fact that he is a


wolf all the time and like that requires more than he’s been giving to it in order for
him to like maybe potentially be at peace with it in some way, or figure out how to
live a quote ‘normal’ life at some point, he also knows that whatever is going on
with him right now, he is hurting the person that he cares about the most, so much,
and like I think it makes a lot of sense as well that he would just be like, the
kindest thing I can do to Willow right now is to get the fuck away from her.
Kristin:​ Yeah. Yeah.
Jenny:​ You know?
Kristin:​ Totally! Totally. And I appreciate all of the notes that you sent it, because
Oz is such a loved character and I want to make sure we give Oz all the space that
Oz deserves, in like how he processes and not just, I mean, I think, I do think
Joanna and I did give some space, but I think we could have perhaps given more
and I think that this is something to think about. And, you know, I think Joanna and
I— And I wonder, Jenny, how the episode would have been if you and I had
discussed it, because I think Joanna and I— And I don’t know Joanna like super
super well, but I get the sense that Joanna and I are both a little bit more
extraverted, in this way. I actually am aJenny:​ Right, right.
Kristin:​ -a pretty major introvert in a lot of ways, but in this way of processing
feelings, speaking feelings as we have them, I think we might be on similar pages
there, or at least a little bit closer together than, Jenny, you and I are. Erm, and so
I think your perspective or the perspective of anyone who might process things
more similarly to Oz would have been really cool for that episode, but now you get
it here!
Jenny:​ Yes! Yes. Thank god we have a mailbag.
Kristin:​ [Laughs]
Jenny:​ OK, wow, I get to read something again, very exciting. We’ve got this email
from Emily, and here’s what Emily has to say. “I’ve loved all the songs you’ve
released but sometimes I’ve sat back and wondered if there was a particular artist
or genre of music you were inspired by and how you use that to shape each song.
Like, I get that the song for ‘Living conditions’ was inspired by ‘Believe’.” Totally, a
hundred percent! “But for the other songs, would you share examples of where the
musical inspiration came from? Also, are the songs written acoustically first or on
piano or does it depend on the song? Just wondering how that whole process
works, I guess. I’m not at all creative but I am fascinated by the creative process


behind songwriting and song creation.” Oh my gosh! My favorite question of all
time!
Kristin:​ [Laughs]
Jenny:​ Ah! Ok, yes, so, absolutely, ‘Living conditions’ we were like, the number
one thing we have to accomplish with this episode is making a song that kinda
sounds like ‘Believe’ about how much Cathy sucks.
Kristin:​ Totally!
Jenny:​ Erm, so that was like totally, totally right on! Another very direct example
of the content of an episode impacting the sort of genre of the song we were going
for is in ‘The wish’. That’s the episode where Cordelia wishes Buffy never came to
Sunnydale, so in that reality, Buffy is a vampire slayer in Cleveland, and so we
wrote that song from Buffy the vampire slayer native of Cleveland’s perspective,
and we chose to go in a sort of Buddy Holly, like early rock and roll type of bounce,
because Cleveland is widely regarded as the home, the birthplace, of rock and roll,
so we went in that direction sonically and then shaped the lyric of chorus around
the idea that Buffy is a lonely vampire slayer living in Cleveland and we, you know,
went ahead and added some specific Cleveland landmarks to really get it in there
for whatever percentage of our listenership is in Cleveland.
Kristin:​ Yeah, let’s play a little bit of that so they can hear that now that you’ve
just described it.
[“The Wish,” off “Songs from Season Three” by Buffering the Vampire Slayer
plays]
Up in the cemetery every evening
Been slaying some vampires in Cleveland
Shout if you feel how I’m feeling
Just a vampire slayer in Cleveland
(vampire slayer in Cleveland)

I don’t have much to believe in


No friends and no family in Cleveland
Just a whole lotta death I been dealing
to the vampires living in Cleveland
(vampire slayer in Cleveland)

Jenny:​ Then there’s a song like ‘Halloween’ where we didn’t know exactly what we
wanted to do but Kristin came up with the chorus lyric of ‘It’s the big Halloween
switcheroo’Kristin:​ [Laughs] ActuallyJenny:​ The poet laureate of Buffering the Vampire Slayer, Kristin Russo.
Kristin:​ I would like to pat myself on the back because, so, I don’t write the
melodies at all, I don’t know how to do that, I can contribute and say, Jenny and I
want the song to sound like this, or I want it to be really sparse, or I want it to be
this or that, and I really enjoy being on the production end, and Jenny and I,
depending on the song, will write lyrics together, sometimes, you know, especially
if it’s a sad song, I know where Jenny’s strengths are, so I’m like, “Hey, this is a
heart-wrencher, why don’t you go sit in the corner and write some words.”
Jenny:​ Yeah, yeah!
Kristin:​ But, erm, we usually write the lyrics together for a lot of the other songs,
but ‘Halloween’ is the only song that I wrote the melody for, so it’s a beloved
favorite of many young children, for this reason [laughs]. Erm, and yes, continue
with your ‘Halloween’ story Jenny, I just really wantedJenny:​ Totally!
Kristin:​ -to get my credit for where it’s due.
Jenny:​ So, Kristin was like I think the chorus show be, [sings] “It’s the big
Halloween switcheroo” and I was like, ok, I can build from there, that’s an
interesting starting point, and we ended up not related really to what's happening
in the episode, but just more related to, that it was a fun, kind of like, monster of
the week type episode. Monster of the week episodes are more likely to sound fun
in one way or another. So, for this song, we thought it would be a real hoot to do
sort of like a classic, old-school, Johnny-Cash-style, you know, one-five one-five
one-five, [humming] dum dum, dum dum, dum dum, where the bass is just doing


that the whole time and the verses are just kind of like, “Halloween, it’s supposed
to be a slow night. Giles promised it’d be no night for vamp activity” or whatever.
So, you know, make it really talky and really lean into that direction. I mean,
Johnny Cash is one of my favorite artists, Kristin loves him as well, so that was like
a really fun thing that wasn’t necessarily tied to exactly something, you know, in
the plot.
[Jenny performing “Halloween,” off “Songs from Season Two” by Buffering
the Vampire Slayer]
Halloween! It’s supposed to be a slow night
Giles promised it’d be no night for vamp activity
But somebody had a differing opinion
Janos’s devoted minion
Came to Sunny D and brought some anarchy
It’s the big Halloween switcheroo
It’s the big Halloween switcheroo
You don’t even know who you’re gonna be
It depends where you got your costume you see
It’s the big Halloween switcheroo
Jenny:​ Then you have a song like ‘Go fish’ where we built the song around a little
riff that has kind of like a beachy feel, just because so much of that, you know, that
entire episode is entirely centered around the sort of aquatic beasts.
Kristin:​ Yeah, what did we do? We pulled like Beach Boy tunes for that one? I don’t
remember ‘Go fish’. I should play it so that I remember it.
Jenny:​ Yeah, yeah, play it and you’ll hear how surfy it is!
[“Go fish,” off “Songs from Season Two” by Buffering the Vampire Slayer
plays]

Something fishy has been going on


and I don’t know what to do
Cause all the swim team boys are turning into
creatures from the black lagoon
Kristin:​ This is like a tiny little middle-section, ‘Song Exploder’ Buffering.
Both:​ [Laughs]
Jenny:​ We just want to be like Hrishi!
Kristin:​ I know!
Jenny:​ He’s so cool!
Kristin:​ We love Hrishi!
Kristin:​ Yeah and I think the only other thing I want to say, and Jenny you might
have more to say too, but, erm, is that there are certain songs which are really
driven, and we actually just finished doing, or Jenny just finished doing the
Buffering concert right before we recorded this mailbag episode, and somebody was
saying, you know, I love the songs where the lyrics sort of universally apply, which
are, of course, not really the monster of the week episodes, usually those are the
bigger episodes and a lot of those, ‘Prophecy girl’ of course comes to mind, but
there’s also the song, I believe, was it ‘Consequences’ that was the song that we
sort of shaped around the Me Too movement?
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ Yeah, and there’s a few others. ‘Prophecy girl’, I think many of you know
this, but ‘Prophecy girl’ Jenny and I wrote sitting in the studio together like, what?
Like a week, two weeks? It was justJenny:​ Yeah, it was right after theKristin:​ -right after the election. And so that song for us was like, and Jenny
maybe this is how you feel when you write songs, I don’t know, this was the first
time I’d ever done this, but it was really like, a grieving process for us, and like an
empowerment process for us. Like, we were doing something for each other as we
created that song.
Jenny:​ Mmhmm.


Kristin:​ That song is piano, very few are, and I think that it just was something we
felt needed to do the thing that piano can do to your heart and mind.
[“Prophecy girl,” off “Songs from Season One” by Buffering the Vampire
Slayer plays]
Fire rising in my bones, I can free us from his hold
From the fear that keeps us bound, I am standing, now I know
What will come, what will come
If our world belongs to them
What will come, what will come
Just keep fighting, just keep fighting, that’s what I’m supposed to do

Kristin:​ That song, you know, is really politically rooted, as is ‘Consequences’ and a
handful of others.
Jenny:​ And then we have, at this point I think we sort of have two suites of songs,
the larger being the really personal songs that really center on the dynamic
between Buffy and Angel over the course of three seasons, like ‘Angel’ and
‘Surprise’ er, and what is of course the one that comes right after ‘Surprise’?
[Laughs]
Kristin:​ [Laughs] Erm, ‘Innocence’!
Jenny:​ Yes, ‘Innocence’! Erm, ‘Becoming’. Oof, I’m upsetting myself just thinking
about it.
Kristin:​ Yeah! And Jenny wrote, right at the jump, right? ‘Angel’ is where the Angel
themeJenny: ​Right.
Kristin:​ You brought the Angel theme in and there are several of those songs that
bring that theme back in and reallyJenny:​ -that involve the theme. Mmhmm, mmhmm.


Kristin:​ Yeah, in many different ways, and not to like spoil anything, but I think
there might be an episode coming up pretty soon whereJenny:​ Oh my gosh, what could happen?!
Kristin:​ -where that theme might just be involved again.
Jenny:​ Goodness!
Kristin:​ And where, like, maybe something really special is going to happen with
the song, Jenny. I don’t know what it’s going to be.
Jenny:​ Oh my gosh, I can’t wait to find out what that is.
Kristin:​ I can’t wait either! Wow, what a great question from, of course it was a
great question from Emily. This is Emily who we know and love, Jenny. This isJenny:​ Oh! Old Emily (McLongstreet)?
Kristin:​ No, no! [Laughs]
Jenny:​ Oh!
Kristin:​ [Laughs] Oh my god, I forgot there were two Emilys, yes!
Jenny:​ Oh, the other Emily.
Kristin:​ Floridian Emily.
Jenny:​ Back-patch Emily!
Kristin:​ Back-patch Emily, exactly!
Jenny:​ Hell yeah!
Kristin:​ [Laughs] Erm, alright, I’m going to take us, if you feel satisfied with that
‘Song Exploder’ Buffering moment?
Jenny:​ [Laughs] Yes, Jesus, please shut me up about it!
Kristin:​ I’m going to take us to a little email from Melanie. Melanie writes in,
“Jenny, the story you were talking about, of course, is Hans Christian Andersen’s
‘The Little Match Girl’. The Match Girl tries to sell matches, even though it’s


freezing, because if she goes home without selling matches, her father will beat
her. She goes into a corner and has a beautiful dream that she is at a warm feast.
Turns out, she died.” I can’t. [Laughs] Like, I just. I pickedJenny:​ Dude.
Kristin:​ -because a lot of people wrote in to say, like, “Oh, Jenny—”
Jenny:​ I saw a lot of this on Twitter. I feel like I could have a whole podcast that’s
just me being like, “Yeah, I remember this one story, it’s about this thing, and it’s
maybe about this, and then maybe either this happens or this happens, and then—”
and then like have one person— I feel like based on our listenership, the average
person will probably know what I’m talking about and be able to correct me.
Kristin:​ Right, right! I just want everyone to know that I chose to read Melanie’s
specifically because it was so rough, it was such a rough summary that it made me
laugh so hard. It’s like, this will happen, this will happen.
Jenny:​ Yeah, “The Match Girl tries to sell matches even though it’s freezing
because if she goes home without selling any matches her father will beat her. She
goes into a corner and has a beautiful dream that she’s at a warm feast. Turns out,
she died.” I mean, that’s terrible!
Both:​ [Laughs]
Jenny:​ The delivery, the way that it’s spaced on the page, is likeKristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ -so rough.
Kristin:​ Melanie, it’s a little bit of poetry from Melanie here, because it’s like a
paragraph that ends with “she’s at a warm feast.” And then it’s like enter, enter, by
itself: “Turns out, she died.” Enter, enter, before the email continues. So just like,
Melanie, I see you, I see your humor, you know, I get you’re trying to take this
ridiculously depressing and horrific storyJenny:​ Also, what the fuck is wrong with Hans Christian Andersen?
Kristin:​ Dude, right?! Oof. That guy needs to hear a couple of up-beat Buffering
songs, you know what I mean?
Jenny:​ I know what you mean!


Kristin:​ Get a little tap going in those feet, Hans!
Jenny:​ Yep!
Both: ​[Laughs]
Jenny:​ Ok, so next up we’ve got Shira. Not to be confused with She-Ra, the
Princess of Power. This is Shira with an I.
Kristin:​ Yes. Who may also beJenny:​ Who I’m sure is very powerful! But I’m not to say. Shira writes, “I only
listen to a handful of podcasts and of that handful both ‘Buffering the Vampire
Slayer’ and ‘Still Buffering’ reign supreme in my book.” Why thank you! “‘Still
Buffering’ shares a component of your name, but I assure you, they are in no way
the enemy.”
Kristin:​ So this isJenny:​ Ah! This is in reference to us recently referring to ‘Still Buffering’ as our
nemesis podcast.
Kristin:​ As a joke! As a joke!
Jenny:​ As a joke, of course as a joke, oh my goodness! But in the interest of the
bit, I’m just going to keep going with this email.
Kristin:​ Sure, sure.
Jenny:​ But don’t worry, everything is cool.
Kristin:​ [Laughs]
Jenny:​ Ok, so, “Three sisters, two in their 30s, and one a teenager—” woah, that’s
a spread! “—go through the ups and downs of teen life from times past and
present. Not only are two thirds of the sisters queer women, they also reference
Buffy consistently, from Faith impersonations, cosplay reminiscing and ‘Once more
with feeling’ sing-along moments, Buffy is the component that bridges the gap
between the ages.”
Kristin:​ Awww!


Jenny:​ “Also, they’re hella-rad feminist women who I think y’all would have a lot in
common with, more than you’d expect. All I ask is that you call of the feud and
maybe together embrace the beauty of Buffy, 90s nostalgia and queerness
together. I suggest you multiply Buffy to the power of two and maybe one day
come together and do guest spots in each other’s shows. Aren’t two slayers better
than one?” That’s what I’ve always said!
Kristin:​ [Laughs]
Jenny:​ “The potential for rad feminist collaboration seems endless.”
Kristin:​ Yeah!
Jenny:​ This rocks! What a cool email. Just to be very very very clear, we are very
not in a feud.
Kristin:​ We’re not, but I do think it’s a fun bit and I’m hoping that the gals form
‘Still Buffering’, if we ever get to share space, will play along with us. [Laughs]
Jenny:​ Yes, yes, that would be delightful!
Kristin:​ Right? And yeah, we’ll be, I mean we’re gonna be at Pod Con in Seattle in
January and they’ll be there too. We don’t even know how it works but perhaps the
forces will come together and allow us to get a little collab’ there or at least high
five and take a ‘Still Buffering the Vampire Slayer’ crossover picture. [Laughs]
Jenny:​ Yes!
Kristin:​ Right? Se, we’ll see!
Jenny:​ Please let it be!
Kristin:​ So, ok, this next email is from Eric. Now, I’m only going to read the
beginning, but then I’m just going to describe to you sort of what happens. This is a
long email and it cracked me the fuck up.
Jenny:​ What happens in the email?
Kristin:​ You’ll see. So, Eric writes in, “Hi Jenny and Kristin, I know we’re past this
point in the podcast but I couldn’t stop thinking about it. I love your show more
than I ever thought I could love a podcast about ‘Buffy the Vampire Slayer’, which
is so personally important to me, so thanks. Here is my email—”


Jenny:​ Aww!
Kristin:​ I know, thank you Eric! “—here is my email on ​why Cordelia would totally
get a reference to Zeppo.​ ” Ok, because in ‘The Zeppo’, in case you haven’t listened
to that episode, we’re like, you know, “would Cordelia really know the Marx—” er,
you know, the Marx Brothers, what are they called? Is that what they’re called?
Jenny:​ Yeah! Groucho Marx. Zeppo Marx. Harpo Marx.
Both:​ The Marx Brothers.
Kristin:​ Yeah, great. And we were like “They wouldn’t get it.” So, Eric is here to
correct us, saying, here’s the explanation, “The Chase family aspires to be
Sunnydale royalty, but they’re the working rich; old money wouldn’t get wiped out
by tax evasion.” Good point!
Jenny:​ Wow!
Kristin:​ “So they affect an old-money adherence to class and presentation. They
don’t just watch movies, they watch ‘classics’ and they watch PBS, which aired
Marx Brothers' movies constantly in the 80s and the 90s. As a self-proclaimed,
quote, ‘daddy’s little princess’, end quote, I can easily see a younger Cordelia
sitting at his side watching old black-and-white comedies. Would she actually ever
reference the fourth Marx brother? Only in the one instance where she does, to
sting Xander in his own language.”
Jenny:​ Wow!
Kristin:​ So, a brilliant, just a brilliant analysis I thought, and then, what’s crazy to
me, is that Eric is like, the next part of the email is like, “But would anyone else?”
And then Eric goes on to explain how, literally, Buffy and Joyce is one, Willow and
Xander, there’s a paragraph on Angel, there’s a paragraph on Anya, Drusilla, Faith,
Giles, Harmony, Jenny Calendar, Jonathan.
Jenny:​ [Gasps]
Kristin:​ Joyce’s lovers.
Jenny:​ Oh my god!
Kristin:​ Oz, Riley, Spike, Wesley, and Mayor Wilkins, all get an analysis of if the
would or would not know the reference.


Jenny:​ I just want to mention that Joyce’s lovers, the spread includes, Ted, the
robot, Pat from book club, Giles and Buffy’s dad.
Kristin:​ Wow! [Laughs]
Jenny:​ Amazing!
Kristin:​ Also, DrusillaJenny:​ Amazng!
Kristin:​ So most of them are like, like Giles, to give you an example, Giles it says,
“Nope. As an angry, young, fuck-the-world mystic, Ripper had no use for old
American comedies. As a stuffy, pretentious librarian, in esoteric gild, Rupert had
no use for American comedies.” Right, so—
Jenny:​ [Laughs]
Kristin:​ Nailed it! All of them are great, but I just want you to know that Drusilla’s
entry was like a musical note emoji, those were the bookends, and in between the
musical note emojis it just says, [Drusilla voice] “The fairies whisper an elegant tale
of decay on my fingertips and we’re dancing.”
Jenny:​ [Laughing] Oh my god!
Kristin:​ That was the whole—that was Drusilla’s whole reference to the Zeppo, like,
that was the whole thing.
Jenny:​ Oh my god wait, can I read one more of these that I think is pretty
amazing?
Kristin:​ Yes!
Jenny:​ “Riley: no. Whenever Riley is off-screen, he doesn’t exist. If he never
explicitly states that he has done something or we don’t see him do it—”
Kristin:​ [Laughs]
Jenny:​ “—we can assume he is either standing perfectly still in a box—”
Both:​ [Laughs]
Jenny:​ “—or maybe doing push-ups.”


Kristin:​ Oh god! God, god, god.
Jenny:​ Wow!
Kristin:​ Yeah, it’s pretty amazing! So, I’ll put this whole analysis up on Patreon,
just for everyone, you don’t have to be a patron of ours, I’ll just put the whole thing
up there so you can get, you can just read the whole thing, it’s so funny, it really is
just hilarious. So, Eric, Thank you!
Jenny:​ [Laughing] Also, the list is alphabetical!
Kristin:​ [Laughs]
Jenny:​ I love it so much!
Kristin:​ It’s really good! So, you can find our Patreon at
bufferingthevampireslayer.com. Just click on ‘Patreon’ and it’ll be one of the public
posts, there aren’t too, too many of them so you can see it that way and read all of
Eric’s descriptions of this thing, it’s so brilliant! Eric, ah, wonderful!
Jenny:​ Er, let’s see, the next note we have is from Marie Eve, who writes, “I have a
quick question regarding the last episode you posted. You said there is another
episode of Buffy that is as controversial as, or even more so than, the Thanksgiving
one. My curiosity is killing me and i need to know. I’m pretty sure you didn’t get
into details because it’s an upcoming episode so if you wish to avoid spoilers, please
just mention the season and number of the episode. I’ve been a huge Buffy fan for
so long, watched the series about ten times and have a few ideas of the one you
might be talking about, but am not sure.”
Kristin:​ Yes, I’ve put it there for you Jenny in the document so you can read the
season and episode number. That was not from Marie Eve, that was from Kristin.
Jenny:​ Oh, got it! Ok, cool, so, Marie Eve, the answer to you question - no looking
ahead, first time viewers! - is season 6, episode 19.
Kristin:​ Yes!
Jenny:​ Now that I’m committing to this, I realize there may be other, also very
controversial episodes—
Kristin:​ Totally!


Jenny:​ —yet to come, but that’s the big banger that sticks out in my mind. We are
terrified of that episode, we are so scared.
Kristin:​ Yeah, Jenny and I have been looking down the barrel at season 6, episode
19 like “cool, how are we gonna—great—ok—”. So, that was the one we were
talking about when we were in ‘Pangs’ saying like, “Ok, this is pretty controversial,
and there’s another! In a very different way!” Anyway, erm, well, we’re rounding
the bend here actually, Jenny. This was the last email I have in the little stack here.
Jenny:​ Noooooo!
Kristin:​ I know, Jenny, anytime—
Jenny:​ I never want to stop hanging out!
Kristin:​ I know, I know! For those of you who are not our patrons, erm, Jenny,
especially when we do videos - Jenny and I do Q&A videos in addition to mailbag
episodes for our ten-dollar-patrons - whenever we do the videos especially, I’m like
“And that’s all!”, Jenny is like, “No, come on, we’re hanging out with our friends! I
don’t wanna stop!”
Jenny:​ [Laughs] Kristin is really good at structure and I’m really good at, you
know, just balls-to-the-wall enthusiasm.
Kristin:​ Jenny is Mr Peanut Butter, through and through.
Jenny:​ Ah, yeah!
Kristin:​ Erm, so I thought I would - and I want to also encourage everyone,
because we do really love doing mailbag episodes, and I want to let you know, if
you’re not a patron of ours, please please still send us emails, because even though
the mailbag episodes only go to our ten-dollar patrons, if we answer your email,
even if you’re not a patron, we email back every person whose email we put in an
episode that’s behind that pay wall, or whatever you want to call it, with the link, so
if we answer your email, you will get the link to the episode, patron or not, you’ll be
able to hear it.
Jenny:​ Yes!
Kristin:​ So please write us emails, we love reading, well, I love reading them and
Jenny loves reading the ones I select for her to read.
Jenny:​ Yeeeeees!


Kristin:​ And I do pass along the ones that are for Jenny specifically, so don’t panic.
Jenny:​ Yes, thank you!
Kristin:​ But I also want to just say, if you're writing us emails, please let us know
where you’re from. A few of you did, but not a lot, so I didn’t put them in here, but
I really really really love, I think we both do, saying, you know, “Hannah from
Michigan” or whatever, just to kind of like give us that little feeling of “Aww, we’re
all over the place and we are all together and talking about Buffy and it’s really
fun,” so let us know where you’re from when you write in, and also, if you want to
let us know your pronouns, we will use them and if you don’t let us know your
pronouns, then we do our best to stay on the ‘they’ path over here.
Jenny:​ Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin:​ Anyhow, I am going to bring us to our final email from Hannah, and I don’t
think that Hannah is from Michigan, I just said that, I just made that up.
Jenny:​ [Laughs]
Kristin:​ But if I nailed it, that’s because I’m a witch! OK, so Hannah writes in, “I
just wanted to ask, how has watching Buffy changed for you since watching it the
first time or years ago. Do you find yourself notiving or reacting to things
completely differently than previous viewings? Also, without any spoilers, who’s you
all-time favorite character or arc? So, Jenny, I’ll let you take a stab at this one first.
Jenny:​ So, I would say that this is definitely my, I don’t know, most like in-tune
with what might be problematic viewing of this show. So, I definitely have eyes out
for the patriarchy, eyes out for thoughtless and unfortunate character moments and
dialogue and I feel like I also have the best sort of like, I’m like keeping track more,
I think, of emotional cause and effect.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ Whereas as a younger viewer, I think I like didn’t put stuff together as well
as I do now in terms of the larger theme of an episode. I might just have been very
in the moment of the action and not figured out the, like, “Oh here’s the thread that
goes through everybody's story in this episode and the lesson it’s teaching.”
Kristin:​ Right.
Jenny:​ And my favourite character is Anya!


Kristin:​ And you’ve been pretty consistent with your favourite character. Is that
true, Jenny? Like, Anya, has always been your choice?
Jenny:​ Errm—yeah, I think so. I think—so.
Kristin:​ I ask that because, you know, I’m having this experience, I’m a major,
major Spike fan and when we started the series I was like, “Spike is my favorite
character.” Now, you know, very differently from Jenny, as many of you already
know, I have only seen this series one time and actually this was my very first
viewing of season one, I had never seen season one, apart from probably like little
episodes in the 90s incidentally, and so I came into the series like “My favorite
character is Spike” and, you know, etc. etc. but my views on that are changing. My
love for Spike is not decreasing but I think that, like, like Jenny said, looking at
problematic things and looking at this and looking at that, and also, I don’t know, I
think my feeling towards badass women has changed, even from my first viewing,
what was that, Jenny? Maybe six years ago? Seven years ago?
Jenny:​ Mmhmm.
Kristin:​ So, Anya has been just really like, every time I’m talking about “Oh, my
favorite character is Spike,” this little voice in the back of my head that’s like “But
really I think you mean Anya.”
Jenny:​ [Laughs]
Kristin:​ And I feel like, I’m coming out for the first time in this mailbag episode, so
please welcome me with kind, compassionate open arms, because I’ve felt like,
“Well, I can’t choose Anya because Jenny chose Anya and that’s silly if we have the
same favorite character,” but I just want to say that Anya is really climbing up the
ranks for me, for a lot of reasons, and I think that parallels sort of how I feel about
watching this show. Again, for me, just for the second time. But the first time I
watched the show, it was just like, I was watching it because Jenny told me to
watch it, I got really invested, but it was like the first, your first experience of the
show is so different than your second experience, even if you’re not doing a deep,
deep, deep dive with a podcast. This is probably the most unique second viewing of
the series that anyone has even had, where I’m watching the series a second time
but I’m watching the episodes two, three, sometimes four times. And, I’m in the
email inbox, so I’m also getting all of these perspectives from all of you and then
we’re discussing those and we get to talk with people like Hrishi and Joanna and
Kate Leth and, you know, I’ve never analysed a television show like this in my life
and it’s been a very fun experience, it’s been really cool to appreciate the


characters and, like you said Jenny, some of the writing and the longer arcs and
things like that as we go.
Jenny:​ Yeah, and also, I’ll point out to you that your other favorite character,
Cordelia, Spike and Anya all have something very magical in common even though
their reasons for that particular thing are different.
Kristin:​ Mmhmm.
Jenny:​ All of them say whatever the hell they want to say whenever the hell they
want to say it. Cordelia says it because Cordelia is number one and she thinks tact
is just not saying true stuff.
Kristin:​ [Laughs] Mmhmm.
Jenny:​ Erm, Spike says it because he’s an asshole.
Kristin:​ [Laughs]
Jenny:​ Erm, which actually makes him sometimes hilarious and sometimes
profound. Sometimes he’s the person delivering news to characters that they can’t
get any other way because their friends care about them and don’t want to hurt
their feelings or whatever. And then Anya, because she doesn’t understand
humanity conceptually—
Kristin:​ Right.
Jenny:​ —and therefore can’t understand why like, think about how like wild of a
concept it is that we as a species have agreed that sometimes you just don’t say
the true thing.
Kristin:​ Right.
Jenny:​ Or sometimes you keep things from people for whatever reason, you know?
Kristin:​ Totally.
Jenny:​ It’s just wild when you think about it that for somebody coming from Anya’s
perspective of living a thousand years as a vengeance demon, of course she’s like,
“What are you doing? Why would you do it any other way than this?”


Kristin:​ Exactly! Exactly. And that’s a really good point, Jenny, I think that is what
they all share in common and it’s something that I gravitate toward in real life. I
mean, that’s why I love Cardi B so much, you know? [Laughs]
Jenny:​ [Laughs] Yes, I do know!
Kristin:​ Cardi B has similar, I don’t know which, I think she probably has most
aligned with Cordelia, er, in her reasoning, but maybe she’s a former vengeance
demon, what do I know, you know?
Jenny:​ It’s entirely possible, I’m not ruling it out.
Kristin:​ I am ruling out her being an asshole, but I guess she could be an asshole.
Maybe.
Jenny:​ [Laughs]
Kristin:​ Er, but I think she just thinks she’s number one and doesn’t care for tact,
and I’m here for it. So, yeah, I think we answered your question, Hannah. Jenny,
did you have anything else you wanted to add?
Jenny:​ Er, no, I’m good I think.
Kristin:​ Alright! Well, I think we’ve done a mailbag! I think we’ve done it!
Jenny:​ Nobody can say we haven’t!
Kristin:​ [Laughs] Well, if they did they’d be lying.
Jenny:​ Yeeeah!
Kristin:​ Yeah!
Jenny:​ So, I’m Jenny Owen Youngs and when I’m not watching Buffy and making
this podcast with Kristin I write songs, that’s what I do, and you can learn more
about me over at jennyowenyoungs.com/buffering and, I’ll tell you what else, you
can always give me a shout on Twitter @jennyownyoungs.
Kristin:​ You can! And I’m Kristin Russo. You can find out more about me and my
work over on my website kristinnoeline.com, that’s K-R-I-S-T-I-N-N-O-E-L-I-N-E.
And since we don’t get a song this week, why don’t we just play my jingle.
Jenny:​ Hell yeah!


[KRISTIN NOELINE jingle plays]
Kristin with an I
N-O-E-L-I-N-E
Kristin:​ You can go on over to that website and learn about the work that I do with
LGBTQ young people and their families. Also, you can follow me using that handle
on Twitter and on Instagram.
Jenny:​ ​Buffering Cast is on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram at
@bufferingcast, and you can email us, [laughs] email Kristin, at
bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin:​ Yes, and last but of course not least, you can support our work. You can
support us by becoming a patron. At the $10 level you’ll get lots of these mailbag
episodes, or, at least lots more than you get in the main feed. You’ll also get some
Q&A videos but there are other levels of giving, we just added a $25 level and some
of you are going to be getting some pretty cool exclusive merchandise in October,
er, and there’ll be more exclusive merchandise coming your way. Speaking of
merchandise, you can also support us by going to our store, that’s also on our
website bufferingthevampireslayer.com, just click on ‘Shop’ and you will find a
whole bunch of patriarchy-smashing goodies. And of course, if you don’t want to
support us financially or if you don’t have the means to, that’s totally chill, you can
go on over to iTunes and rate and review us, and/or you can go on over to iTunes
and rate our sister podcast, ‘Angel on top’, and let us know how you feel about their
podcast. If you don’t know about that, I think you do, but just in case you don’t
know, Brittany Ashley and Laura Zak are now in tandem with us. We are every
other week and on our off weeks, you get an ‘Angel on top’ episode that
corresponds to the episode of Angel that goes with our Buffy episode. So, check
that out if you have not.
Jenny:​ Yes!
Kristin:​ And rate and review them too!
Jenny:​ Alright, is that everything?
Kristin:​ I think we did it, and now, listen, for those of you who haven’t heard a
mailbag in a long time, we’ve sort of modified—We howl out but we don’t do a full
howl because we reserve that for, you know, the main episodes, so we will howl out
now, but we’re going to mailbag howl out, right Jenny?
Jenny:​ Yes we are. Till next mail—


Both:​ Awo-oo-oo! Yeah.

