Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 5.02: Real Me
Kristin: ​Today's episode was brought to you by Buffy. The Vampire Slayer, but also
the comforter. Buffy makes bedding that is earth-friendly and cruelty free. Their
latest product, The Breeze, is a comforter made entirely from 100% eucalyptus
fiber to regulate temperature and keep you cool and comfortable all night long. And
Buffy offers a free trial, so if you don't love it, return it at no cost. For $20 off your
Buffy comforter, visit buffy.co, that's buffy.co, and enter code "buffering." You'll get
$20 off. That's Buffy.co, enter code "buffering."
Jenny:​ A good outfit starts with the basics, and wow-wow-wow does Mack Weldon
have some glorious basics for you. I discovered Mack Weldon when they started
advertising with Buffering, but I have become a total convert. And their Pima Crew
Neck T-shirt is my favorite t-shirt in all the land, for color, for fabric, for fit. The cut
is perfect. Plus they make some seriously cute boxer briefs. And if you don't like
your first pair of underwear, you can keep it and they'll still refund you, no
questions asked. What do you have to lose? For 20% off your first order, visit
mackweldon.com and enter promo code "buffy."
[CHIME]
Jenny:​ Well, it's our hundredth episode!
Kristin:​ Can you even believe it? 100, Jenny.
Jenny:​ They said it couldn't be done. [Kristin laughs] I am now deeply regretting
not making a big deal about our 69th episode. But what's to do.
Kristin:​ Oh, shit! I'll have to go back and see which one it was, just so we know.
We could put—we should go back and drop a little Easter egg in and just start the
episode with "Nice." [both laugh] Anyway, it's our hundredth episode, which is
pretty spectacular. Congratulations, Jenny. You've done a great job.
Jenny:​ Congratulations, Kristin, you also have done a great job.
Kristin:​ Thank you so much, and congratulations to you, listener. You have listened
to us 100 times.
Jenny:​ That's, like, well over 100 hours of us.
Kristin:​ Yeah. ​Well​ over.


Jenny:​ Deal with that for a minute.
Kristin:​ So you are experts in our vocal intonations, Jenny's "wow-wow-wows."
[laughs]
Jenny:​ Yeah, yeah. You know, that's 6,000 freaking minutes of us talking.
Kristin:​ Wow. To quote Jenny Owen Youngs—
Jenny:​ Is that Hellmath? Does that qualify as Hellmath? That's just regular math.
Kristin:​ No, that's Hellmath.
[HELLMATH jingle plays]
Hellmath!
Kristin:​ So… in addition to this being our hundredth episode. We have some other
news, we have some other exciting items to tell you before we dive headfirst into
Real Me. First of all, we released the tickets to our next live taping, which is in San
Francisco. We're taping Fool For Love, we're gonna have some fucking really
exciting special guests. And we only have about 50 tickets or so left. It's December
6, it is at the Brava Theater, which is a really special space. And we really wanna
see you there, so go to bufferingthevampireslayer.com. Just click on our Events
page, you can get all the ticketing and all that information there. 50 tickets is not
that many left, so if you wanna go, go.
Jenny:​ Act swiftly.
Kristin:​ Yes! Also in the event landscape, I wanna let you know that we are just a
couple weeks away from the Atlanta All-Ages Pride Party. I have hosted an all-ages
Pride party in New York City for the last seven years. And due to amazing
sponsorship from the Tegan and Sara Foundation, we are doing our very first Pride
party—all-ages Pride party in the south, at Atlanta—it's at Switchyards. And you
can get all of that information by just going to allagespride.com. It will be there for
you. Be Steadwell is playing some music.
Jenny:​ Oh my god.
Kristin: ​We're gonna have youth slam poetry. I'm gonna be there hosting
alongside Ashanti LaShawn. It's gonna be fun. I think there might even be
doughnuts. I'm just saying.
Jenny:​ Oh my god!


Kristin:​ And it's totally free, it's totally open to the public. It's a really special thing.
If you are near Atlanta, please, please join us. October 12, 2-4 PM,
allagespride.com.
Jenny:​ [draws out first word] When...you're taking the bus home from the Atlanta
Pride Party or whatever, you could pop on to Spotify or Apple Music or whatever
and listen to now my three freaking new songs, the latest of which is called
Dreaming on the Bus, which just came out. I am so pumped about all of them, but
that one in particular I feel like might be of interest to Buffering listeners because I
wrote it with Bess Rogers, who is our voice of Willow.
Kristin:​ Hell yeah. Ugh, and listen, I don't know if you want the behind the scenes
information here. But Bess and Jenny, when they come together to write music, it
is really special.
Jenny:​ Um—thank you. That's how I—
Kristin:​ Did I embarrass you?
Jenny:​ No, I feel that way too. I feel very special when Bess and I get together.
Kristin:​ It's—yeah. It's a powerful combination of songwriters, so you should
definitely—yeah, you should do some dreaming on the bus with Dreaming on the
Bus. Good call.
Jenny:​ Yes. Okay, so. Furthermore, unrelatedly, let me tell you something else. We
have a limited run left over of Kate Leth's beautiful posters and enamel pins from
the Buffy Vs. Dracula premiere show in Philly. And all of our other usual merch
that's—one piece is more glorious than the last. All up on
bufferingthevampireslayer.com when you click on Shop. They will not last. They are
too beautiful to last, I think.
Kristin:​ It's true.
Jenny:​ So act quickly there. And I'll tell you what else. What I'm truly excited
about is that Angel on Top, our sister pod, has a brand new pocket tee designed by
the incredible Devan Power, who I love. And it's got a hot little crossbow on the
pocket and it says "Rogue Demon Hunter" and it rules!
Kristin:​ Yes!
Jenny:​ And you can find that by visiting angelontop.com, just click on Store.


Kristin:​ Yes, I've seen some of you on the internet saying, "ooh, we can have a
little secret code. We'll know you're a Buffy fan and an Angel fan if you come up to
me wearing this pocket tee and you ask me what a rogue demon is." [laughs] So!
Jenny:​ Oh my god. [laughs]
Kristin:​ I know. Very special. So I have a fun piece of news, which is that we have
a voicemail box now. You can call us and leave us—
Jenny:​ Oh my god!
Kristin:​ A message. If you don't know this, we do special mailbag episodes. They
are a delight, and we do them for our $10 patrons and higher. We also have an RSS
feed now over on our Patreon page, which means that all of those patrons actually
have a private RSS feed. They get all of the episodes ad-free now, if you're a $10
donor or higher, and these special mailbag episodes. So now, if you leave us a
voicemail, we can include the voicemails in those mailbag episodes as well. And if
you leave us a voicemail and we are tickled by it, we might pop it right here in an
episode that you can all hear. So, guess what the phone number is, Jenny.
Jenny:​ Um, is it… 696-6969? Area code 420?
Kristin:​ It is not.
Jenny:​ Okay.
Kristin:​ It is 216-30-BUFFY. That's 216-30-BUFFY. Do you know what 216 is an
area code for, Jenny?
Jenny:​ Is it Cleveland?
Kristin:​ It sure is. I was…
Jenny:​ Oh my god!
Kristin:​ I spent a lot of time looking for the perfect number, and I felt this was it.
So you can call us now, 216-30-BUFFY. Leave us a message with your thoughts on
the episode, with your questions. We will listen to as many as we can. We will put
some in our special mailbags, we will put some in the episodes themselves should
they be relevant and exciting. And speaking of relevant and exciting, Jenny, we
have some award winners for Sexual Tension from last episode.


Jenny:​ We sure do. Well, in the Sexual Tension awards, I like to think that
everyone's a winner. But! [Kristin laughs] We have a specific numerically
determined winner from the last episode. So, for Buffy vs. Dracula, you know…
you'd think that Buffy and Dracula would have had a fighting chance, but they're in
4th place with 6%—a measly 6% of the vote.
Kristin:​ Nobody wants it.
Jenny: ​Tied for 2nd place, we have two couplings. Or should I say, one coupling
and one quadrupling. Riley and Spike took 29% of the vote, hot-hot-hot-hot-hot,
and Giles and the brides of Dracula, all three of 'em, took 29% of the vote. I feel
like these two hot couplings cancelled each other out—
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ And Xander and Dracula was somehow allowed to scoop 1st place with 36%
of the freaking vote.
Kristin:​ Yeah, people were really into Xander and Dracula.
Jenny:​ Unbelievable!
Kristin:​ You would have voted for Riley and Spike, Jenny?
Jenny:​ Yes.
Kristin:​ I would have voted for Giles and the brides. So we are an example of
splitting that vote. [both laugh] Xander and Dracula took it. Congratulations,
Xander and Dracula, your trophies are in the mail. Dracula, we did something fun
for you. Your trophy can turn into a bat, a rooftop wolf or a mist. You're welcome.
Okay, we have two special treats for you in this episode all leading to some fun
bonus episodes headed your way this Friday and next Wednesday, holy crap. First
of all—
Jenny:​ Oh my god, an embarrassment of riches.
Kristin:​ An embarrassment, truly. I am humiliated with how much we have—
[Jenny laughs] how much content we have. First of all, in this episode, you'll get a
little tease of our Mercedes McNab interview. That will be airing next Wednesday,
you'll get the full interview between me and Mercedes, and in this episode, you'll
get just a little taste of that. Because of course, this is a very Harmony-centric
episode.


Jenny:​ Also, the song this week features the introduction of a new character in our
universe. You're welcome in advance. It's Gaby Dunn in the role of Dawn.
Kristin:​ What!
Jenny:​ Some people like to method-act, you know, and move from role to role and
live their lives trying to embody that character for the short time that they're
preparing for the role. Gaby has been living her whole life, her ​whole ​life, in
preparation for this role. And it shows. [Kristin laughs] This Friday, we'll be putting
up a special episode where we sit down with Gaby Dunn and friend of the pod and
friend of our hearts, Mal Blum, bringing you their thoughts on Dawn, Gaby's
experience recording the song with me, and finally, some Harriet the Spy thoughts
from people a little younger than us. Hell yeah.
Kristin:​ And before we head into the episode, of course, what would an intro be
without…
[SPOOKY NEWS jingle plays]
Spooky news!
Kristin:​ Uh, listen. There's been a collection of spooky news sent to me over the
break. And so I'm just worming my way through the list here. And this one—it's not
even a news article. It is simply a tweet, I'm watching it right now. It's this tweet
that originated from the Twitter account haunterhaha. H-A-U-N-T-E-R-haha. [both
laugh] Which is a great handle, by the way. And it is a video taken of—I'm so sorry,
it involves a cat that is no longer with us. But it also involves what looks like—mm,
20 turkeys? And all the turkeys are walking in a circle with their heads bobbing
around the dead cat in the road. It is unbelievable. It is certainly a coven of
witches, there's no doubt about it.
Jenny:​ Oh my god. Those turkeys are… dark. [Kristin laughs] There is a dark, dark
energy there.
Kristin:​ Those turkeys are all dark meat, if you know what I mean.
Jenny:​ Oh my god. [both laugh] Oh my god!
Kristin:​ So… your spooky news today is just, listen, somewhere in the world, a
fucking shit-ton of turkeys walked around a dead cat and we don't know what the
results are gonna be. But stay tuned to find out. That's been your…
[SPOOKY NEWS jingle plays]
Spooky news!


Kristin: ​And before we roll into the episode, thank you for listening to this
wonderful intro done by myself and Jenny Owen Youngs. If you like the jingles you
hear, like Spooky News or Hellmath, both which were in the intro, or some of the
jingles you hear throughout the episode, you can just go on over to
bufferingthevampireslayer.com/jingles and snag them for yourself. They are located
in many places and hey, guess what, The Patriarchy jingle? That one's totally free.
Jenny: ​Hell yeah!
Kristin: ​So without further ado, let us jump into Real Me.
[Buffering the Vampire Slayer theme plays]
Jenny:​ Hello! And welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast where we
are watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, one at a
time, spoiler-free. [takes deep breath] I'm Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin:​ [laughs] And I am Kristin Russo and this week, we are talking about
Season 5, Episode 2, Real Me. Stay tuned at the end of this podcast every other
week for an original song written by Jenny Owen Youngs, recapping the Buffy
episode we are discussing. And if you haven't yet started listening to our Angel
podcast, Angel On Top, hosted by Brittany Ashley and Laura Zak, they are back as
of last week. Get over there, get in there, it's some good dark fun.
Jenny:​ Mm, mm, mm! Real Me was written by David Fury, directed by David
Grossman and originally aired on… Dave-tober 3, 2000.
Kristin:​ [laughs] Seriously. Got all the Daves.
Jenny:​ [laughing] Yeah.
Kristin:​ Which two Daves do we have? Grossman and…
Jenny:​ Grossman and Fury on this one.
Kristin:​ And Fury. 'Cause there's also—don't forget—
Jenny:​ Greenwalt.
Kristin:​ Greenie, right. Now that we hung out with Charisma Carpenter, when she
called him "Greenie" so much, I feel like we can call him Greenie too. Sorry if you're
listening to this, Greenie. I realize that I've moved ahead in our friendship.


Jenny:​ Would you say it's ​in-greened​ in your mind?
Kristin:​ Wow. Here we go.
Jenny:​ And we're off!
Kristin:​ You know, Episode 2, Season 5. We got quips. We got quips like Buffy.
This is the one where, as Harmony and her—yeah, that's right, I said Harmony—
Jenny:​ Ha!
Kristin:​ As Harmony and her vampire gang plot Buffy's demise, Dawn adjusts to
life with a slayer.
Jenny:​ Yeah, Dawn. You know—you remember Dawn from before?
Kristin:​ Yeah. I want everybody to know that there is a thread in our secret—we
have a secret Facebook group for those of you who support us on Patreon. It's
pretty big and active—
Jenny:​ Lush. It is lush.
Kristin:​ It is. It's full of—I mean, it's glorious, one might say.
Jenny:​ Uh-huh.
Kristin:​ And there is a thread—I saw, today, a thread where somebody has
everyone commenting on their favorite Dawn episodes from seasons 1-4. And it
is...a treat. It's a treat!
Jenny:​ Incredible. So let's take it over to the white room for some very intense
yoga-block handstands.
Kristin:​ Where are we? Like, where ​are—
​ there's a pommel horse. That's what
that's called, right?
Jenny:​ Yeah, a pommel horse. Who knows?
Kristin:​ It's like we're in a gymnasium, I guess. Or like they rented a little gym
room for Buffy's—
Jenny:​ Yeah, it's very strange.


Kristin:​ Training.
Jenny:​ So you know when there's, like, some new-age music playing and you've
got your little pyramid o' crystals—
Kristin:​ Love a pyramid of crystals.
Jenny:​ And you're just extending your feet to the ceiling and your hands to the top
of the block. Doing a big ol' extendo handstand, and then you just, like, one-hand
it. 'Cause you can.
Kristin:​ It's pretty hot.
Jenny:​ And then…
Kristin:​ Your stupid…
Jenny:​ Headstandus interruptus. [both laugh]
Kristin:​ You were really building to that, huh?
Jenny:​ It just occurred to me. But this is very pesky, huh?
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ Shouldn't Dawn know better?
Kristin:​ This is—okay. So...I don't know if you know this about me, Jenny and
listeners, but I have a little sister. And I find this representation of little sisterhood
to be spot the fuck on.
Jenny:​ Oh yeah, and same—basically same age difference between you and Allie,
right?
Kristin:​ Yeah, 'cause you were just saying that Dawn is 14.
Jenny:​ Yes.
Kristin:​ And Buffy is, we think, 20 at this point?
Jenny:​ Yeah, something like 20.


Kristin:​ So yeah, that's—my sister and I are five and a half years apart. And it
seems like they are about the same. And I wanted to murder my sister [Jenny
laughs] for many, many—
Jenny:​ Well, was she always interrupting your slayer trainer sessions?
Kristin:​ Constantly. Constantly.
Jenny:​ Mm-hm, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin:​ So Jenny, you jumped right into the crystals and Dawn—what is it?
Headstandus interruptus? But we did get a "previously on," and I just want to talk
about it for a hot second. Because I think it's hilarious that the entire episode—
Season 5, Episode 1 was about Dracula. And basically the "previously on" was like,
"okay but here's what's really important about the episode." [laughs]
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ It's like, Dracula's name is mentioned one time and it's mostly like, hey,
remember how Buffy asked Giles to be her Watcher, hey, remember how Xander's
done with this shit, and hey, remember that little sister in the end?
Jenny:​ Oh yeah. And the Magic Eye poster?
Kristin:​ And the Magic Eye poster. We're still waiting for answers.
Jenny:​ Mmm.
Kristin:​ On the Magic Eye poster. So the other thing that I wanna talk about in this
scene with Dawn—
Jenny:​ Is it Giles intoning… monotonously?
Kristin:​ Yeah, well, it's the way Giles rips his fucking glasses off of his face at
Dawn.
Jenny:​ Oh yeah, Dad is mad. Mad dad.
Kristin:​ Mad dad. Very, very mad dad. He's so fucking—he's almost more annoyed
with Dawn…
Jenny:​ Than Buffy is, and Buffy just took the fall.


Kristin:​ Right. Or her new stunt person. [laughs]
Jenny:​ Right. Okay, so…
Kristin:​ So.
Jenny: ​Cut to… Dawn's bedroom. Dawn—
Kristin:​ No!
Jenny:​ Oh—oh, sorry.
Kristin:​ Cut to the fucking credits.
Jenny:​ And then we arrive… at the credits. Ta-da!
Kristin:​ And who should appear but—
Jenny:​ Anya in a bunny suit!
Kristin:​ Yeah, I was gonna say—what's that Christmas song? “Who should appear,
the most famous little sister of all.”
Jenny:​ [laughing] Yep, that rhymes.
Kristin:​ Yep. Yeah, we have Michelle Trachtenberg in the credits! Harumph.
Jenny:​ Yes! How interesting. Then we go to Dawn's bedroom.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ The mysterious… third bedroom in the Summers' household that we've all
been wondering about, this whole time. And judging from her bedroom, all Dawn
knows is stuffed animals, lava lamp, Betty Boop and diaries.
Kristin:​ Yes. Again, this is exactly how I remember my sister. Lisa Frank, Limited
Too, stuffed animals…
Jenny:​ Ooh, Trapper Keeper!
Kristin:​ Yes. So she's like, "no one understands the real me." We get this title out
of the mouths of at least Dawn and Harmony.


Jenny:​ Mmm.
Kristin:​ You know, but this is the first time we hear it. She's like, "no one
understands the real me, underline, exclamation point, exclamation point!" [laughs]
Jenny:​ [simultaneously] "Exclamation point," yeah…
Kristin:​ Jenny, you're already annoyed with Dawn. [laughs]
Jenny:​ Yeah. I've had it. She… is very crafty though, with the sort of breakfast
stratagem.
Kristin:​ Yeah!
Jenny:​ Really, it looks—it's very beautifully choreographed. A lot of planning and
careful timing-out of certain emptying of cereal boxes and milk cartons went into
this scene.
Kristin:​ Yes. I was gonna say, there's a lot of milk play in this scene.
Jenny:​ Well—[makes grossed-out noise]
Kristin:​ A lot of milk play.
Jenny:​ Boo! As you know, my position on milk has not changed! [Kristin laughs]
I'm firmly against it.
Kristin:​ I can't wait till Season 6 when we have a "My Position on Milk Has Not
Changed" t-shirt. [both laugh] So right, you know, we get—as they are convening
in the kitchen, the Summers women, this breakfast play where, over the top of it,
Dawn is sort of like, "ugh! She thinks she's so special, she's a Slayer, she doesn't
even wear a mask." Which I think is hilarious.
Jenny:​ Uh-huh, uh-huh, uh-huh.
Kristin:​ "Vampires are stupid, they die from a splinter."
Jenny:​ Uh-huh, yep, yep.
Kristin:​ And then Joyce—she interrupts to be like, "hey, do you wanna take your
sister to get school supplies?"


Jenny:​ Suddenly, things have really picked up at the gallery again. [Kristin laughs]
So convenient, Joyce!
Kristin:​ Um, Joyce looks fucking hot, but we'll get there.
Jenny:​ Mm-hmm.
Kristin:​ Yeah, so Joyce is like, "help me out." And this is a—I wanna talk to you
about this, Jenny. 'Cause this is an overarching theme in the episode, of Joyce
being like, "you need to help me the fuck out. I need help from you." And she… I
feel like she treats Buffy like Buffy is a 20-year-old college student who's, like,
just… fucking around. And I feel a little un-okay about it, because it's like, Buffy has
a very big job. And it doesn't feel like Joyce is clocking it as what it is.
Jenny:​ There's a certain lack of reverence with respect to Buffy's sacred duty that
quite often intersects with the very fate of the world, which includes Joyce and
Dawn. So…
Kristin:​ Right. She's doing all this work, she doesn't get paid for it. And all she's
trying to say is "hey, Dawn's presence in my life is interrupting this really important
thing that I'm trying to do—for myself, but mostly for the world." [laughs] Half of
the world.
Jenny:​ Yeah, and it's not like she has a choice, and it's not like someone can cover
for her.
Kristin:​ Yeah. So I don't know. I just was rubbed a little bit the wrong way by that.
And I think it's a testament to how, as human beings, we acclimate to pretty much
anything and normalize it after a certain amount of time. [laughs]
Jenny:​ Totally.
Kristin:​ But I just would like to remind—Joyce, if you're listening. I would like to
remind you—
Jenny:​ Ha!
Kristin:​ That your daughter is the Slayer and maybe you should cut her a little bit
more slack.
Jenny:​ And Riley would like to remind you that you look great today.
Kristin:​ Um...[high-pitched and drawn out] Riley!


Jenny:​ Helloooo, nurse!
Kristin:​ Riley walks in and is like, "Hey Ms. Summers, you're looking good today."
Or whatever the fuck he says.
Jenny:​ Uh-huh!
Kristin:​ And it's not even just a throwaway, because Buffy's like, "excuse me."
[both laugh] And he's like—and then he clarifies to be like, "well, she's wearing a
great outfit."
Jenny:​ "And also, I'm here to violate your firstborn usually doesn't go over so
well."
Kristin:​ Right.
Jenny:​ Which… both fair, she does look great and you shouldn't say that.
Kristin:​ She's—in case you haven't done a recent watch of this episode, she's
wearing a leopard—Joyce! [Jenny makes drum noise] Is wearing a leopard, like,
button-up—collared button-up underneath a black vest that's pinned with this giant
safety pin?
Jenny:​ Listen...
Kristin:​ I don't mean to step on Kate Leth's toes. She'll be here later in the
episode, but.
Jenny:​ But maybe Faith is actually back in town, got a new doohickey, did a body
swap with Joyce, Joyce is like, "oh, where's that Harlot lipstick that—I know I have
it around here somewhere."
Kristin:​ [laughs] Yeah, Joyce, later in the episode, is like, "Hey Buffy, that's totally
five by five." And we're like, hmm!
Jenny:​ [laughs] Hmm! Something's strange. Um, Buffy—
Kristin:​ Wait.
Jenny:​ What?


Kristin:​ 'Cause you got to Riley and I understand that you're always anxious to get
to your butterscotch hunk—
Jenny:​ Sure, sure, sure, sure.
Kristin:​ But before that, something important—a couple things happen. They say
they're gonna go to the magic shop. And Dawn says, "I don't wanna go to
Hogwarts." And she finds herself, you know, tickled by her joke.
Jenny: ​Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: ​And so I just wanted to say, I looked it up, 'cause I was like, where were
we in Harry Potter when this episode aired?
Jenny:​ Books only?
Kristin:​ Well, yeah, and it was the—so the fourth book in the series, Goblet of Fire,
had released on July 8th, 2000. So we were only four in, and just newly four in. So
this is like really height of—I mean, is there a height of Harry Potter? It's just—we
always reach new heights with it. But this is like, when Harry Potter is really taking
the nation by storm.
Jenny:​ Right. Right, right, right, right.
Kristin:​ So it's always gonna be a relevant reference, since—
Jenny:​ Yeah. Now it is. Yeah, but Dawn's there on the cutting edge with her finger
on the pulse, 'cause she's a—what is she, a zoomer? Gen Z?
Kristin:​ I don't know the—
Jenny:​ Or is she a young millennial?
Kristin:​ Actually, I think—yeah.
Jenny:​ She probably falls squarely maybe in the middle of—'cause did you know
that I'm technically the first year of millennial?
Kristin:​ '81?
Jenny:​ Ye—[pauses, quietly] Yes.


Kristin:​ I actually have been told that I am a millennial, even born at the tail end
of '80.
Jenny:​ Whoa!
Kristin:​ Which is, you know, it's controversial. I'm kind of a cusp.
Jenny:​ [laughing] Okay.
Kristin:​ Okay. So… you were saying.
Jenny:​ Regardless. Dawn is reading books. So… so can we talk about Riley now?
Kristin:​ Yeah, we can talk about Riley.
Jenny:​ Ugh, as I mentioned in our live episode, Riley got a haircut and he's using
way too much product. And you know whose hair his hair kind of looks like in this
episode?
Kristin:​ Whose?
Jenny:​ Somebody who can't see his own hair but continues to style it that way
anyway. [Kristin laughs] He's got kind of like, extreme, advanced Angel hair? He's
like, Angel hair plus 75% more product. And perhaps Buffy is off-put by this new
hair product regime. Because she has forgotten that she made plans with Riley, and
I will point out to everyone—
Kristin:​ Yes.
Jenny:​ That Riley is very accepting and really just rolls with it and is supportive of
her new training and he's so proud of her, wow. What a great boyfriend!
Kristin:​ Listen, I don't mean to knock you off your pommel horse, Jenny, but—
Jenny:​ Ha!
Kristin:​ I actually wrote in my notes, okay. Riley is a very good boyfriend in this
moment. He super understands her cancelling the plans—
Jenny:​ Uh-huh!
Kristin:​ Like, I will give Riley credit where credit is due.


Jenny:​ Thank you.
Kristin:​ That was it. Congratulations, Riley. [laughs] So—
Jenny:​ We also get this cute thing where he calls Dawn "kid" and she's
always—like, auto-response, "I'm not a kid!"
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny: ​And she's talking about—we get the voiceover, her describing their
relationship and how he's totally obsessed with Buffy—true!
Kristin:​ Mm-hmm. This is a thing too, right? Like, an older—I had a little sister and
I feel like the older "boy friends" that I had—not boys that I was dating, but friends
who were boys—would always tease my sister. You know?
Jenny:​ Right, right, right.
Kristin:​ Older friends love to tea—or like, your friends as the older sibling, if you're
an older sibling, love to tease your little siblings. It's very fun.
Jenny:​ Right, right, yes, totally.
Kristin:​ Once my friend Jeff made my sister's friend Jenna eat a fly.
Jenny:​ No!
Kristin:​ For a dollar. She did it.
Jenny:​ Ew!
Kristin:​ [laughs] Speaking of eating flies, per the last episode. So… Giles has got a
new ride!
Jenny:​ Woo! 'Scuse me, whose car is ​that?
​
Kristin:​ Hot to trot, Giles is playing classical music in his red convertible.
Jenny:​ In his mid-life crisis mobile. [Kristin laughs] What kind of monster… what
kind of self-aware monster at age 14 is jumping up in between Giles and Buffy to
change the radio station on a car that is not hers?


Kristin:​ I mean, listen. Dawn—it's very apparent that Dawn and Buffy have a
sibling rivalry rooted in attention—rooted in who's getting the attention and who's
getting cut too much slack and what have you. So I find it very believable that
Dawn would jiggle around with the radio, because she wants attention and she's
not gonna get it in this car—
Jenny:​ True…
Kristin:​ 'Cause it's her Slayer sister and her Slayer sister's old Watcher who uses
the word "newfangled."
Jenny:​ Right, right, right.
Kristin:​ [laughing] That's how she measured—
Jenny:​ He's pretty far gone, as Dawn puts it.
Kristin:​ [laughs] Which I believe, Dawn may have done her first installment of…
[HELLMATH jingle plays]
Hellmath!
Kristin:​ Um, not to get too sexy too soon, but Giles really misses driving stick.
[laughs]
Jenny:​ Uh… yeah, he misses driving stick with his old pal Ethan Rayne… [Kristin
laughs] And he has no time for frivolity right now, except for the frivolity of showing
off his sporty new little red car to Willow and Tara, who haven't seen it yet! Pull
over!
Kristin:​ [laughing] Willow says, "Nice wheels" and Tara Amelia-Bedelias her and is
like, "The rest of the car's nice too."
Jenny:​ Oh, Tara…
Kristin:​ Tara, sweet Tara. [laughs]
Jenny:​ And then we get this sweet-ass outsider perspective. More Dawn voiceover:
"Willow and Tara are so cool, they're both so cool, wow, they're so great." Willow
has been teaching Dawn how to play chess, adorable!
Kristin:​ So this is—let's stop for a second, Jenny. Because we're watching this for
the first time.


Jenny:​ Mm, yes.
Kristin:​ Let's say. We have met this character at the end of the last episode, and
everyone is discussing her like she has fucking been here the whole time.
Jenny:​ Yep.
Kristin:​ And we are playing—we've been playing with that, being like, "of course
she's been here the whole time!" [Jenny laughs] Like, 'cause it's fun to immerse.
But listen, you know, a lot of our listeners are watching for the first time. So we
wanna just—
Jenny:​ We don't wanna gaslight you. [laughs]
Kristin:​ We don't wanna— [laughs] we don't. We do wanna say, like, this is
important, what happens between Willow and Dawn. Because it's underlining—
Jenny: ​Yeah.
Kristin:​ 'Cause you keep expecting—
Jenny:​ Somebody to say something!
Kristin:​ "Who ​is ​that girl?" [laughs]
Jenny:​ Yeah, yeah.
Kristin:​ But nobody does. And so that's important and I just want to point that out
for the new watchers. But anyway, yes, then please Jenny, segue us to this
beautiful diary entry from Dawn. [laughs]
Jenny:​ Wow! Dawn's talking about how cool Willow and Tara are and how they're
witches and that's way cooler than being a Slayer and they do spells together. And
then one time she told Joyce that she wanted Willow and Tara to teach her what
they do alone together… [both laugh] and then Joyce got very quiet and told me to
go upstairs so she could visit Pat's grave.
Kristin:​ [laughs] Oh, it like, struck a chord with Joyce, you think? Yeah, and Dawn
kind of like, hits this nail directly over the head, the one that we've been playing
with since these two Wiccas started practicing their witchcraft—
Jenny:​ Yeah, yeah.


Kristin:​ And she says, I guess her generation—Joyce's generation— [Jenny laughs]
isn't as cool with witchcraft.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ Two weeks ago, when we talked about Buffy vs. Dracula, I talked about
how the episode felt—like, there was silliness to it, but it felt like "we're getting the
gang back together again!" And that's why—and I feel like there's an element of
that here. And I wonder sometimes what it's like when the writers get back
together. Like, even for you and I, Jenny, starting Season 5. We're kinda like—
Jenny:​ So exciting! Having a blast.
Kristin:​ Yeah, we've got our bucket full of jokes from the last four seasons.
Jenny:​ Yeah, yeah.
Kristin:​ It's fun and I feel like a lot of that is present in these first few episodes of
Season 5. Where you can almost feel the writers having fun with the things that
they've gathered along the way.
Jenny:​ Yeah, yeah, totally.
Kristin:​ So—
Jenny:​ The writers seem to have forgotten, though, in this next bit, in which Willow
informs Buffy that she can't actually take the drama class they were gonna take
together. Willow ​canonically​ has stage fright! Hates acting, does not wish to
perform!
Kristin:​ Yes! But do you think that Willow is trying to conquer her fear and that's
why she's so upset that Buffy isn't gonna take the course with her? 'Cause I
thought the same thing.
Jenny:​ Maybe. Maybe. Do you think she figured out a spell for banishing stage
fright? [Kristin laughs] Um, I figured out a spell for banishing stage fright, which is
to take beta blockers. [laughs]
Kristin:​ Oh, nice. So Willow, apart from being mad at Buffy, is ​super i​ nto the fact
that Buffy suddenly has this really big work ethic. I mean—
Jenny:​ Oh, yeah.


Kristin:​ Sorry, I didn't mean to couch it like that. Like, of course Buffy has always
worked very hard. But this is the first time that Buffy really wants to put pen to
paper, and pick up books, and really read and learn about her history—
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ And the history of Slayers. And Willow is like, va va voom! You know?
She's feeling it.
Jenny:​ Yeah, Willow loves a to-do list. Willow loves an agenda. Gay or otherwise.
Willow loves people getting shit done in a strategic manner.
Kristin:​ So we get to ye olde Magic Box.
Jenny:​ It's wrecked!
Kristin:​ It's wrecked. And Tara's like, "Mr. Boggarty?" [laughs] And everybody
whips their heads around, and they're like, "Tara?" And she's like, "I, uh… spend a
lot of time—"
Jenny:​ [stammering like Tara] "Let me just take a moment to explain, 'cause this
seems necessary, that as a witch, I spend a lot of time here. At the Magic Box."
[both laugh]
Kristin:​ And then of course, Willow trips over the body—
Jenny:​ Ugh! Boy oh boy, if I had a dollar for every time—I'm just such a klutz! I'm
like Bella in Twilight, I'm always tripping over dead bodies. Oops!
Kristin:​ [laughs] For those of you listening at home, which is everyone except for
me, let me tell you that you really missed great shoulder shakes—
Jenny:​ Yeah, yeah, yeah. [laughs]
Kristin:​ And hair tosses by Jenny when she did that Bella impression.
Jenny:​ Now, I have a question.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ So Willow trips over Mr. Boggarty, Buffy rushes Dawn outside—


Kristin:​ Right.
Jenny:​ So that she won't see—you know—
Kristin:​ The dead body.
Jenny:​ Anything more than she's already seen. And then Dawn peers in through
the blinds from the outside.
Kristin:​ Yes.
Jenny:​ Now, this feels familiar to me and I'm wondering if you happen to have any
knowledge of how many times Michelle Trachtenberg has peered through blinds as
Harriet the Spy.
Kristin:​ Oh! I was like, maybe it's familiar 'cause it's in the credits. I see where
you're going with this.
Jenny:​ I'm just wondering if this is something that she, you know, really honed
and practiced already.
Kristin:​ So I actually—I feel that the generation—or, not generation but the age
that I am aged me out of Harriet the Spy, though I'm sure that a lot of our
listeners—
Jenny:​ Will know and write in.
Kristin:​ 'Cause, right? Were you aged out of Harriet the Spy?
Jenny:​ I was aged out. We'd probably have to call your sister.
Kristin:​ Yes, exactly. My sister would know. I'll call my sister and see if she knows
how many blinds Harriet the Spy peeked through. [laughs]
Jenny:​ Ha!
Kristin:​ But you can also write to us at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com and
let us know your thoughts on Harriet the Spy. And as mentioned in the intro, we
have a new voicemail number so you can call us and leave a beautiful voicemail for
us as well that we'll put in our special mailbag episodes.
Jenny: ​I know that I just met you. And this is crazy. [Kristin laughs] But our
number is in the intro, so call us maybe.


Kristin:​ Wow. That was like Christian Slater doing a cover of Call Me Maybe. [both
laugh]
Jenny:​ Um, you're welcome?
Kristin:​ So one thing I wanna point out is that when Dawn gets pulled out of the
Magic Box, we see the—sort of the side of the wall where there's posters. And—did
you see the band name?
Jenny:​ Uh, Leftover Salmon?
Kristin:​ Leftover Salmon, which is pretty great.
Jenny:​ Is that a real band?
Kristin:​ Oh, I didn't look it up.
Jenny:​ 'Cause it reminded me of something but it felt not quite, and then I was
like, is there Leftover Tuna? I think Leftover Tuna might be a band? And then I was
like, wait, am I thinking of Hot Tuna? And then I thought, wow, I wish I wasn't
thinking of hot fish of any kind or leftover fish of any kind. Fish is really, you know,
a food you don't want leftovers of, so much? You wanna just get that all done in
one meal.
Kristin:​ Yo, Leftover Salmon is a fucking band! [holding back a laugh] They're an
American jam band from Boulder, Colorado, formed in 1989!
Jenny:​ That seems… right.
Kristin:​ I'm sorry, but they're on tour right now! [laughs]
Jenny:​ Oh my god!
Kristin:​ You can see—if you wanna see Leftover Salmon, you can see them. Right
now!
Jenny:​ Wow.
Kristin:​ Holy shit. Okay, sorry, wow. That was a detour I did not anticipate taking.
I thought it was just somebody funnily making a poster. Okay, Dawn is outside and
this man—who is very disheveled. He's unshaven, his hair is messy, like, we don't


know what his deal is. But he comes over to her and he's talking—he's saying
words that make no sense. He's talking about—
Jenny:​ Yeah, he's pretty incoherent.
Kristin:​ Cats in cupboards and, you know, he says, "make it stop, make it stop."
It's very… it's a little scary at first and then it gets—not violent, but like, when he
puts his hand on her mouth—
Jenny:​ It feels very aggressive and scary.
Kristin:​ It's really scary, yeah. I think that the crossing of that boundary—like, her
bodily boundary is—
Jenny:​ Yeah, blegh!
Kristin:​ Really takes it from like, what is this? To like, whoa, this is…
Jenny:​ Yikes.
Kristin:​ A traumatic moment for Dawn.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ Unquestionably. And he says a couple of things that are mightily
important. And mightily connected. Last week, we heard a quote that we had heard
Tara talk about in Restless.
[Clip from episode plays]
Dracula:​ You think you know… what you are, what's to come. You haven't
even begun.
Kristin:​ Now this man says to Dawn, "I know you. Curds and whey." [Jenny gasps]
Now, curds and whey are not a common thing to talk about, Jenny. They happen to
be really only talked about in the context of a nursery rhyme.
Jenny:​ Yeah, they remind me of that one broad, Miss Muffet?
Kristin:​ [laughs] Yeah, that broad. Uh-huh. Yes, Little Miss Muffet, I believe, sat on
her tuffet, Jenny.
Jenny:​ Sure.


Kristin:​ And she was eating… her curds and whey.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ So if you remember the Little Miss Muffet line, that's from the dream that
Buffy had with Faith.
[Clip from episode plays]
Buffy:​ There's something I'm supposed to be doing.
Faith: ​Oh, yeah. Miles to go. Little Miss Muffet, counting down from 7-3-0.
Buffy:​ Great. Riddles.
Kristin:​ So this is interesting. And then he says, "you don't belong here." And
that's all we get. Then Tara comes out.
Jenny:​ This is really sweet!
Kristin:​ This ​is ​really sweet. Tara sits down with Dawn and this is, like, the
beginning of a theme in the episode of Tara feeling left out of the Scoobies and
reflecting on Dawn as her companion in that.
Jenny:​ Yeah, yeah.
Kristin:​ And she says, "non-Scoobies like you and me should stay out of the way."
[both start talking at once] Go ahead, go ahead, Jenny.
Jenny:​ [squealing] And then they thumb wrestle!
Kristin:​ It's really sweet. It's really, really sweet, especially because we already
learned how much Dawn looks up to Willow and Tara.
Jenny:​ Yeah, yeah.
Kristin:​ One of the reasons she looks up to Willow is because Willow loves school
as much as her.
Jenny:​ I know!


Kristin:​ People have asked us what our thoughts on Dawn are. And I just want
everyone out there who's worried that perhaps everyone will always be annoyed
with Dawn to know that, like, I love Dawn. Love is strong, but I have a lot of space
for Dawn. And I just think is a cute moment.
Jenny:​ Yeah, it's—she's in a… she's in a tough position. So just keep your hearts
open.
Kristin:​ Yeah. So…
Jenny:​ In no time at all! Willow has cross-checked the inventory list. [Kristin
laughs] With everything that's in the store to determine what's been taken. And
Giles, on a parallel path, is having his mind blown by the Magic Box profit margins.
"I bet the death rate keeps the rent down," he muses.
Kristin:​ Yep. Giles is really into the profit margins of the Magic… Box? Magic Box?
Jenny:​ Mm-hmm.
Kristin:​ They also deduce that a unicorn is missing, the value of which is 12.95,
Jenny.
Jenny:​ 12.95 in 2000 dollars, for one ceramic unicorn, ten inches high.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ Sounds about right.
Kristin:​ Sounds about right. So who, they muse, who would steal a unicorn? And
oh…
Jenny:​ Ha! There's only one answer, my friends.
Kristin:​ Truly is only one answer. And it's not Harmony. It's Brad, for Harmony.
[laughs]
Jenny:​ Brad— [laughs] Brad for Harmony.
Craigslist.org/Sunnydale/Brad4Harmony.
Kristin:​ [laughs] Hashtag unicorns.
Jenny:​ Hashtag unicorns. Brad stole it for her because he is, as some of his
vampiric cohorts in the Harmony gang say, "sire-whipped."


Kristin:​ Oh! So Harmony is back, and Harmony—oh boy!
Jenny:​ Looks great in this lighting! Looks amazing in this lighting! Wow.
Kristin:​ She looks—listen. I'm sorry, I don't mean to whatever, but Harmony looks
great in ​literally​ any lighting—
Jenny:​ Sure, sure, sure.
Kristin:​ Except for sun lighting! Because she would die.
Jenny: ​No, no, no—yes, absolutely, but there's something about—it feels like they
stepped it up for this scene.
Kristin: ​Probably because they wanted the lighting to glimmer off of her gold lamé
pants? [Jenny makes drum noise] Who knows? Do you know who might know?
Jenny:​ [inhales sharply. singsongy] Could it be Kate?
Kristin:​ It might be Kate.
[Jenny singing Fashion Watch intro theme]
It's time for our friend Kate
To give you the Buffy fashion update!
Kate: ​Hello, my beautiful Slayerettes, and welcome back to Buffy Fashion Watch,
now featuring one of the show's most controversial characters: Dawn. Now, Dawn
is a character whose outfits I'm sure I'll comment on at some point over the course
of the rest of the series. But it's unfortunate for her in this episode, because not
only is her sister wearing multiple naval-revealing shirts and hoop earrings, but this
episode has ​Harmony.​ In gold. Pants. And not just gold pants, but halter tops with
beading and sequins and long, ridiculous chains. And, if you really pay close
attention, she wears pants that have ​tassels​, all the way down the side. I thought
they were shiny PVC at first, but I think they're goth cowboy? And I respect that so
much, it's really hard to think about anything else.
But I am legally required to mention that Willow and Tara wear almost identical
outfits for most of this episode? I also have to point out that when we see Willow
and Tara walking past the Espresso Pump when they're on the way to the Magic
Box, Willow's hair is down and she has a kind of an off-to-the-side part. When
they're in the magic shop—a scene I assume they shot later or a different day—her
hair is flipped out and she has a ​zigzag p
​ art. So take from that what you will.


Now, I do have to give it up for one thing Dawn wears in this episode, even though
it is so brutally eclipsed by Harmony's pants. The dress that she wears when
Xander and Anya come over, I swear, I owned an exact replica of that when I was
14. So even though I hated this character when I was that age—sorry—they really
got it right. And another thing they got right was Riley's compliment to Joyce on her
ensemble in the beginning of the episode, because she's wearing a flowy
leopard-print collared shirt with a vest over it that is tight at the top, with a giant
safety pin. I—I had to pause on this to make sure I was correct about that, but it is.
It's like a giant diaper pin. And she's pulling it off. Much like she pulls off the
turtleneck thing that she wears to the gallery later on. Joyce is just a vision.
Honestly, this episode is a great one for outfits. Everyone's wearing something
charming that really matches their character. And even though Giles's is pretty
forgettable, he gets his incredible car in the scenes with it. And I'm not really sure
what else there is to say. Just gold stars all around. So until next time, I'll see you
at the mall. 'Cause it's Halloween season, baby, and Hot Topic has Coraline merch!
Hell yes!
[Jenny singing Fashion Watch outro theme]
That was our friend Kate
She gave you the Buffy fashion update!
Kristin:​ Wow, Kate. [sighs] Thank you so much for that beautiful Fashion Watch.
Also, if you missed it… Kate made us a video for the first episode of this season. It's
over on our Patreon, it's available to all, and we highly suggest—
Jenny:​ It's a Fashion Watch video, there are many outfit changes, as you would
expect. There's some winking— [Kristin laughs] there's some spooky music, there's
some really compelling makeup. You won't—it will change you.
Kristin:​ It will change you.
Jenny:​ Forever.
Kristin:​ For the better. So. Jenny. We—
Jenny:​ Harmony. Looks. Great!
Kristin: ​Harmony looks great—
Jenny:​ [speaking in a staccato rhythm] She has got a gang! They're gonna kill the
Slayer!


Kristin:​ They're gonna kill the Slayer—
Jenny:​ ​Tonight!
Kristin:​ We— [laughs] so she has minions. She's so Harmony, and I'm sure we told
you this in the intro, but we're gonna give you a little tease of next week's episode,
'cause we will have an episode next week that is me sitting down with Mercedes
Mc-fucking-Nab!
Jenny:​ [laughing] Mercedes Mc-fucking-Nab.
Kristin:​ [laughs] Full name. And talking to her about her time on the show as
Harmony. We're putting just a little tease in this episode, but you'll get the full
thing next week in our feed. So that's exciting. Not only do we have Mercedes
McNab in this episode, Jenny, but we have Tom Lenk! Playing Cyrus, one of the
minions.
Jenny:​ There… there he is! What a dream.
Kristin:​ That might not mean anything to you if you're a first-time watcher, but we
will see this actor again in the series.
Jenny:​ So stay tuned.
Kristin:​ Anyhow!
Jenny:​ Okay, so. Next—in the next freaking scene. What you already called out
gets cranked up to a whole new level when Joyce is pissed that Buffy ​happened t​ o
be in a place where there was a dead body, over which she had no control, when
Joyce is the person who said "take your sister" in the first place! Joyce!
Kristin:​ I know. I know. Joyce is—I think that Joyce has stuff going on at the
gallery and I think she might have a new lady crush. I'm just… saying.
Jenny:​ Oh. My. God.
Kristin:​ She seems… distracted. She's wearing leopard. I feel like—
Jenny:​ Yeah. Who knows what's going on? At the gallery.
Kristin:​ You know… I think there might be—maybe she ran into Bette Porter at the
gallery and is feeling it.


Jenny:​ Oh. My. God.
Kristin:​ Call the babysitter.
Jenny:​ Call the babysitter, but only if it's Xander, who calls her "Dawn Patrol" and
she's like, "Xander is so much cuter than everyone," which is so cute!
Kristin:​ It is, and Xander really is the boy that your little sister would have a crush
on.
Jenny:​ Yes. 100%.
Kristin:​ 'Cause he's so—he makes Dawn feel like she's part of the gang, you know?
And he makes jokes, he's like, "hey, they're putting cheese on this circle bread. It's
an idea that's really gonna catch on."
Jenny:​ Yeah. Yeah, yeah. And he says my favorite thing that happens in this
episode. May I please…
Kristin:​ Yes, please.
Jenny:​ Tell you what it is! When Joyce is on her way out, she's like, "be good" or
whatever, and he's like, "oh, we will! We're just gonna play with matches, run with
scissors, take candy from some guy, I don't know his name." [Kristin laughs] This is
some top quality, grade A lineage and delivery.
Kristin:​ Yeah, it's great!
Jenny:​ Really nice.
Kristin:​ Xander's picking up on those Buffy quips. He's getting his own little banter
going on.
Jenny:​ Do you think that because this episode is largely from Dawn's perspective—
Kristin:​ Ooh.
Jenny:​ We're seeing it from her eyes a little bit, like…
Kristin:​ Xander's a little funnier.


Jenny:​ [simultaneously] Xander's extra charming, and then Anya is, like, grating
and difficult. [both laugh]
Kristin:​ Stop, Jenny, because we're playing the sound clip of when Anya walks—so
Xander comes in. And Dawn's excited. I wanna say, before Anya gets in, Dawn is
like, "He builds things, he's brave."
Jenny:​ Aw!
Kristin:​ "And he treats everyone like an equal." You know, Season 1 Xander,
maybe not so much. But Season 5 Xander—
Jenny:​ He's coming along.
Kristin:​ He's coming along. So now I would like to play a sound clip because after
Dawn is so excited that Xander's there, she is ​pissed ​when Anya rolls up. And
Anya… please speak for us, Anya.
[Clip from episode plays]
Dawn: ​[voice over] Xander treats everyone like an equal. He doesn't look
down on people. [sound of door partly closing on Anya]
Anya:​ Hello there, little girl!
Dawn:​ [voice over] Even when he should.
Anya:​ We're gonna have fun, fun, fun! Look. I've got Monopoly, Clue, and
ooh, the game of Life! That sounds good.
Kristin:​ Okay, so. We'll get more from Anya, can't wait. Anya's due for a jingle,
isn't she, Jenny? [Jenny gasps] You gonna work on that?
Jenny:​ [singing] Tonight is the night, is the night, of [mumbles]
Kristin:​ [laughing] Great.
Jenny:​ Yes.
Kristin:​ Okay. Stay tuned in a future episode for Anya's upcoming jingle. So let's
go to the wicca room.
Jenny:​ Ha!


Kristin:​ Tara and Willow are moving into the dorm room that they share now,
'cause they didn't officially share it till now. Now they've really moved into together,
and I think the signal to us that they are melding worlds is that I see two pieces of
artwork. One is a weird cartoon cat— [Jenny laughs] and the other is pressed
leaves. And I feel that both of those are symbolic of Willow and Tara's molding—
Jenny:​ Yeah, yeah.
Kristin:​ Melding of minds.
Jenny:​ You know what's nowhere to be seen? Miss Kitty Fantastico.
Kristin:​ Where the fuck is Miss Kitty Fantastico?
Jenny:​ I don't know, guess we'll just have to keep an eye out.
Kristin:​ Huh.
Jenny: ​Aww, this is really nice!
Kristin:​ This is really nice.
Jenny:​ This is really nice. Tara's talking about how it must be tough for Dawn
because she's outside of the situation and she can't help. And Tara's expressing
that she gets that, and Willow's like, "you're not outside of the group. You're in the
group," and Tara's like, "no, you guys have had this thing going on for some time,
and I respect that and that's cool. And I'm just like, using my experience, which I'm
totally cool with, to highlight why Dawn might be feeling left out." Right?
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny: ​And then they vertically spoon.
[WILLOW & TARA jingle plays]
Moving vending machines, pulling petals off of roses
Greek poetry, kittens and you know it's
Sweaty work doing spells from a place of love
Like Willow and Tara!
Jenny:​ You still have that lesbian sex thread going on Twitter?
Kristin:​ [laughs] Yeah, I gotta dig back a-ways.


Jenny:​ 'Cause I think eighth base is vertically spooning.
Kristin:​ [laughs] So—but I wanna talk about this moment where Willow comes up
behind Tara and wraps her arms around her and they're talking about their feelings,
right? Because we've talked a little bit about the relationship of Willow and Tara and
how groundbreaking it is, but moments like these are why this relationship is
groundbreaking on television. Because Willow and Tara are not just sexualized
queer women. They are two women who have a deep love bond for each other and
who support each other in a partnership way, the way that we often—always see
heterosexual couples portrayed. And that's super powerful now, in 2019, but in the
year 2000, this was ​incredibly ​powerful, to not just see two women in a
relationship, but to see these little moments!
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ To see that they have a little dry erase calendar that's hanging in their
little bathroom area. [Jenny yelps excitedly] I don't know why it's there! Maybe
they're keeping track of when they take their Zoloft. I don't know! But it's cute.
Jenny:​ Or just like, their menstrual cycles and the moon and whatnot.
Kristin:​ Oh yes, the moon, you're right, you're right. It's the moon. [laughs]
Jenny:​ And then Willow, in trying to make—getting confused about what's really
going on, is like, "maybe we could have a Scooby initiation… for you."
Kristin:​ "And rings, we could get rings."
Jenny:​ [laughs] And Tara's like, "I'm an adult?" [both laugh] "But that would be
nice for Dawn, that would make Dawn feel really good and special."
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ And Dawn clearly loves, like—at least half of the—she loves Willow, Tara,
and Xander.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ And she's like, okay with Riley. And pesked by Buffy—
Kristin:​ Of course.


Jenny:​ And Giles, and really doesn't like Anya.
Kristin:​ And Jenny, I'm here for your analysis of Tara, because I do think—my
opinion is this is, like, 80% of Tara's occupying of this space. But I do think that
there's a bit of Tara that's playing out some of her own insecurities about this
group—
Jenny:​ Totally.
Kristin:​ Through—and this is—I do this all the time, I think many of us do this all
the time. Like, we give voice to our own insecurities through the insecurities of
others. And I think that Tara is an adult person and I think she's capable of
managing it, but I think, you know.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ The Scoobies are a hard gang to penetrate.
Jenny:​ Absolutely.
Kristin:​ And I think Tara has some of that too.
Jenny:​ Speaking of penetration.
Kristin:​ [laughs] Ohh. [both laugh]
Jenny:​ Sorry.
Kristin:​ Oh, can't wait for—
Jenny:​ [chanting] Dad is drunk! [both laugh] So Buffy and Riley are hard at work
or hardly working.
Kristin:​ [laughs] Uh-huh.
Jenny:​ And boy oh boy, does Buffy have a lot to say.
Kristin: ​Wow. And this—and Jenny, not to whatever, but you and I—we were in a
relationship for almost a decade, married for several years. And this reminded me
of some of our dynamic.
Jenny:​ Ah.


Kristin:​ Which is why it's hilarious to me to hear you say, like, "wow, Buffy sure
has a lot to say." [both laugh] Because this is a thing that I really—when Riley tries
to use his logic to solve Buffy's issue—
Jenny:​ Yeah. Get out of here with that useless stuff, please.
Kristin:​ Right. And Buffy is so—she so owns her shit. She's advanced for a
20-year-old. She's like, "excuse me, but this is a rant, and logic has no place in a
rant."
Jenny:​ Yeah, yeah. "I just need to go until I'm done. Until the batteries wear
down."
Kristin:​ Right. Which is a thing that I personally understand deeply. [laughs]
Jenny:​ [laughing] Uh-huh.
Kristin:​ And a dynamic I remember from many of my relationships. Yours included.
Jenny:​ [laughs] Among his many logic points, he brings up that "you're Dawn's
hero." He tells Buffy that she's Dawn's hero.
Kristin:​ Yes.
Jenny:​ Which is something that neither Dawn nor Buffy can possibly conceive of,
but is probably pretty true.
Kristin:​ Yeah, it is definitely true. And also, not to talk too much about me and my
sister, but it is kinda the episode for that. This was super present in our relationship
that I didn't recognize until years and years and ​years​ later, that the whole time I
had been being a horrible monster to her, she just wanted to, like…
Jenny:​ Aww!
Kristin:​ Be ​near​ me and—
Jenny:​ Oh god!
Kristin:​ I know. And like, it's really—I'm sure that many of you older siblings out
there can identify with that gutting feeling of later realizing what you couldn't know
then. And they give a bit of that to us here with Buffy and Dawn.
Jenny:​ And then we kinda get to… the real meat of it. When—


Kristin:​ Almost the title of the episode. [both laugh]
Jenny:​ Real Meat. Uh, when Buffy says, "she gets to be a kid," like Buffy never did,
"and she acts like it's the biggest burden in the world." And the grass is always
greener.
Kristin:​ Right, 'cause we know that Buffy wants that burden. She wants the burden
of just being a kid who is just mad and upset about her older sister, is something
that Buffy really never got.
Jenny:​ Yeah, wouldn't that be nice?
Kristin:​ Yeah. And you're right, though, the grass is always greener. They both are
carrying the weight of their particular world.
Jenny:​ Yeah, and at the same time that this is going on, across town, Dawn is
playing ooh-the-game-of-Life with Anya and Xander and saying, like, "oh, Buffy's
Mom's favorite." And Xander says, "that's crazy talk, Joyce loves you both equally
but also maybe just like, slip her a 20 once in a while."
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ Even the odds.
Kristin:​ Yeah. [laughs] Xander's like, "money solves everything." And it's good that
he's in a relationship with Anya—
Jenny:​ Ha!
Kristin:​ Because I do believe that this will have value in that relationship as well.
[Jenny laughs] But there's this amazing moment where Dawn is internally
monologue'ing and she's like—
Jenny:​ Oh god!
Kristin:​ "Xander sees me the way I really am, as a woman."
Jenny:​ Oh dear.
Kristin:​ And she has chocolate ice cream—
Jenny: ​Like, ​all​ over her face!


Kristin: ​Like, dramatically.
Jenny:​ And the only way that you could get that is if you had, like, a Häagen-Dazs
pint in front of you that was pretty melty but full? And then you just, like, dunked
your whole— [Kristin laughs] she looks kinda like Homer Simpson. You know?
Kristin:​ [laughing] Yes.
Jenny:​ With chocolate ice cream instead of five o'clock shadow.
Kristin:​ So, listen. I don't mean to sound-clip you all out here, but this is an
important moment for our dear Anya. I'd like to lead us into the sound clip—and
we're gonna go right from the sound clip into a jingle. I have a feeling that those of
you who know this episode already know the sound clip and the jingle.
[Clip from episode plays]
Anya:​ Crap! Look at this! Now I'm burdened with a husband and several tiny
pink children, and more cash than I can reasonably manage.
Xander:​ That means you're winning.
Anya:​ Really?
Xander:​ Yes, cash equals good.
Anya:​ Ooh! [claps] I'm so pleased. Can I trade in the children for more cash?
[THE PATRIARCHY jingle plays]
The patriarchy! [thunder clap, evil laughter]
Kristin: ​Ugh, Anya. Highlighting and smashing that patriarchy. [laughing] With her
wishes to trade her children in for cash.
Jenny:​ She just wants that money! [laughs] God, I just hate having more cash
than I can reasonably manage. [Kristin laughs] It's—ugh, it's one of my least
favorite things. Then there's a brick through the window!
Kristin:​ "Slayer, come out and die."
Jenny:​ Smiley face.


Kristin:​ [laughs] And then, not even giving them a moment to read the note, you
hear Harmony outside, like, "Buffy!" [both laugh] "Come out here! Come out and
fight me!"
Jenny:​ And the shot out the window of the Summers house of the five of them,
like, with their hands on their hips, just like—
Kristin:​ God. It's so good.
Jenny:​ And battle axes and stuff. When are vampires gonna update?
Kristin:​ Their looks?
Jenny: ​Their weaponry.
Kristin:​ Their weaponry. I think that it's a very important and respected part of
vampirism that they stick with their original weapons.
Jenny:​ Sure, okay, yes.
Kristin:​ As a matter of fact, I think our country would be in better shape if we had
stuck with​ our​ original weapons.
Jenny:​ Yeah. That would be great.
Kristin:​ We could all take a note from vampires. I wanna also ask a question here
about glass. If you lived in the Summers household, would you not have gotten
safety glass at this point for your front window? You know, the glass that they use
in cars, where it just shatter—crumbles? Because that window has broken—
Jenny:​ Who knows how many times?
Kristin:​ I mean, dozens of times. So—
Jenny:​ Good thing Xander's like, deep into carpentry now.
Kristin:​ [laughs] Yeah, that's true. So Harmony comes to the door, Xander's like,
[singsong] "this is hilarious!" They have some really great exchanges here. First of
all, Harmony has already found out, through the Vampire Times—
Jenny:​ Ha!
Kristin:​ That Xander had puppy-dog eyes for Dracula.


Jenny:​ Ha!
Kristin:​ And then there's this wonderful reference. And here's where we're gonna
bring in our little tease of our Mercedes McNab interview. Because they talk about
the last time that Harmony and Xander met, this epic—
Jenny:​ On the field of battle.
Kristin:​ The field of battle. So let's hear a little bit from the ​wonderful ​Mercedes
McNab about that scene.
[clip of interview begins]
Kristin:​ So, the epic fight scene between you and Xander. [laughs] Of course,
Harmony and Xander—
Mercedes:​ Oh yeah.
Kristin:​ Not ​you​. Is on all of our minds, it's hilarious and I would love to hear—I
know everyone would love to hear a little bit about filming that scene. [laughs] How
it went, what it was like.
Mercedes:​ Well… it was slightly ridiculous because they made Nick wear, like, shin
guards, 'cause I kick him in the shin at one point. [Kristin laughs] So he had to
wear shin guards and it was very—you know, the stunt people were very interested
in us not getting hurt. And I'm like, I'm pretty sure we're not gonna get hurt. We're
not even touching each other.
Kristin: ​[laughs] Right.
Mercedes:​ And then, I didn't know at the time that they were filming it in slow
motion. So it was funny, and we knew it was funny, just because it was so
ridiculous. But then when you watched it on the show and it was slowed down and
made to be super dramatic? Then it got even funnier. So that helped.
Kristin:​ Did they give you direction, apart from like, "kick his shin"? Was it
adlibbed or—
Mercedes:​ Oh no, it was fully staged.
Kristin:​ Really?


Mercedes:​ Yeah, oh yeah. It's—you know, everyone's got their job to do. So that
every little tiny slap was planned out.
Kristin:​ It's choreographed very—
Mercedes:​ Which is kind of ridiculous, when you think about it, but yeah.
Kristin:​ Oh yeah, 'cause I mean, it looks completely natural. It looks like they said,
"can you just bat each other around a little bit?"
Mercedes:​ [laughs] I think that's kinda what we ended up doing. But yeah, they
had it semi-planned out, 'cause like I said, he had shin guards on and something
else, I can't remember what it was. Some protective gear.
Kristin:​ God, that makes it even funnier. That that's happening—
Mercedes:​ I know, to know that that's happening under the clothes.
Kristin:​ Yeah, that everyone's very concerned.
Mercedes:​ Mm-hmm.
Kristin: ​Nick might get hurt.
Mercedes:​ He might get an owwie on his shin bone! [Kristin laughs]
[end of clip]
Kristin: ​So next week, next Wednesday, you'll get Angel On Top and you'll also
get, in the Buffering feed, our full interview with Mercedes McNab.
Jenny:​ Oh, hurray.
Kristin:​ And get to hear her talk about a lot of other things, which will be fun! So
tune in for that and, oh my gosh, thank you, Mercedes McNab. She was such a
delight.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ So then, of course, Dawn commits the classic Summers error. [laughs]
Jenny:​ Err, and accidentally invites Harmony in.


Kristin:​ I don't think I realized that you had to live inside of the house to be able to
issue an invite until this episode.
Jenny:​ I don't think that it's come up specifically in the Buffyverse?
Kristin:​ I think that's nice, that you can't invite vampires into somebody else's
home, you know?
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ 'Cause who can you really trust? So anyhow, Dawn… you know, she's just
trying to get involved and be like, "yeah! Fuck that guy!"
Jenny:​ Yeah, yeah. Big talk.
Kristin:​ And instead she says, "Come in here and say that."
Jenny:​ Ahh! Exactly what you don't wanna say to a vampire.
Kristin:​ And then, luckily it only gets Harmony in, because she was only talking to
Harmony. Now… I know that we're supposed to be like "oh shit, Harmony got in"
but like, Harmony has fucking moves! I—remember the last time we saw Harmony
fight. It was—
Jenny:​ Yeah, yeah. She's been hitting the gym.
Kristin:​ Anya has this great little cut-away moment where she's looking for a
fucking weapon. [laughs]
Jenny:​ Yeah, yeah, yeah! The Slayer—she's in the house—the home of the Slayer,
the fine craftsman home of the Slayer. Nary a weapon to be seen anywhere, all she
can do is use a household object.
Kristin:​ Yes. So she uses the lamp. Harmony lets us know that she's been working
out, she's been honing her skills. But she does scamper off with her minions.
[Jenny laughs] And Xander says something about an enchilada. And then "Buffy's
not gonna be happy," which is a great cut to the next scene…
Jenny: ​Of Buffy cracking up!
Kristin:​ ​Hysterically l​ aughing.
Jenny:​ Over the concept of Harmony having minions.


Kristin:​ Right. Which is funny, of course, until she finds out, as Anya deftly delivers
her line. Anya says, you know, "well, it would be funny except for she has full
access to your house now." [laughs]
Jenny:​ Oops!
Kristin:​ And, you know, Buffy's furious with Dawn and this is a moment where the
Scooby and Scooby-adjacent folk are like, "hey, maybe go easy on her? She's a kid,
it was a real rough moment for her." And Buffy has no fucking room for that at all.
Let's go to the cemetery.
Jenny:​ Before we go to the cemetery, let's just take a quick moment to talk about
some of today's sponsors.
[Ad music begins]
[Ad segment]
Jenny: ​Support for today's episode comes from Casper mattresses. Casper is a
sleep brand that makes expertly-designed products to help you get your best rest,
one night at a time. Their products are cleverly designed to mimic human curves,
providing supportive comfort for all kinds of bodies. The original Casper mattress
combines multiple supportive memory foams for a quality sleep surface with the
right amounts of both sink and bounce. The breathable design helps you sleep cool
and regulates your body temperature throughout the night.
Casper offers three other mattresses: the Wave, the Essential and the Hybrid, all
designed, developed and assembled in the US. Casper gets delivered right to your
door in a small, how-do-they-do-that? sized box with free shipping and returns in
the US and Canada. And you can be sure of your purchase with Casper's 100 night
risk-free sleep on it trial. You spend one-third of your life sleeping. Be comfortable
with Casper. Get $100 toward select mattresses by visiting casper.com/buffy and
using "buffy" at checkout. That's casper.com/buffy, code "buffy." Terms and
conditions apply.
Kristin:​ Today's episode was brought to you by Away. Away knows that everyone
has a different travel lifestyle. Maybe you're a vampire returning with your minions
and you need to pack all of your accessories and your many, many unicorns. Away
makes their carry-on suitcases in an array of colors—probably one that even
Harmony would like—two sizes—she'll need both—and two materials, a strong yet
flexible polycarbonate, and an anodized aluminum.


Suitcases are designed to last a lifetime, but if any part of your suitcase breaks,
Away's standout customer service team will arrange to have it fixed or replaced as
soon as possible. And thanks to their 100-day trial on everything Away makes, you
can take it out on the road and live with it, you can travel with it, you can go to the
cemetery with it. Then if you decide it's not for you, you can return any
non-personalized item for a full refund. No ifs, ands or asterisks. Want to see it for
yourself? Shop everything Away at their stores in New York, Austin, LA, San
Francisco, Boston, Chicago, and London. Ooh, sorry, Sunnydale.
I am truly a massive fan of all that Away makes. I love my suitcases. I take the
medium one and little one together and I can wheel them both with one hand,
that's how great they wheel across even the New York City sidewalks. For $20 off a
suitcase, visit AwayTravel.com/buffy and use promo code "buffy" during checkout.
That's AwayTravel.com/buffy, use promo code "buffy," you'll get $20 off your
suitcase. Because getting away means getting more out of every trip to come.
[Ad music fades out]
[Episode resumes]
Jenny:​ Okay, ​now​ we can go to the cemetery.
Kristin:​ Okay. Let's go to the cemetery. My first note is, Harmony's pissed and
looking hot.
Jenny:​ [laughs] Accurate!
Kristin:​ Right? Cyrus's stomach is growling. Brad's, like, being a Brad.
Jenny:​ Ha!
Kristin:​ And Spike… is like, ka-blam.
Jenny:​ Yeah, he's here. He's punchy.
Kristin:​ He doesn't see Harmony at first. He thinks it's just a gang of vampires.
And, you know, rumors are a-flying—I guess they're not really rumors, they're true
facts.
Jenny:​ Everybody knows that he kills vampires.
Kristin:​ Yeah. And then from the shadows emerges Harmony. And this is quite a
moment, Jenny.


Jenny:​ Ha!
Kristin:​ Because he says, "Hello, Harm."
Jenny:​ Mm-hm!
Kristin:​ Because he's like, "day-um." His first note was, Harm's pissed and looking
hot. [both laugh] Then she says, "Spikey."
Jenny:​ "I mean, Spike."
Kristin:​ Right? And then he says, "You look good." She says, "I feel good."
Jenny:​ He says, "I remember."
Kristin:​ I… ​remember.​ [Jenny makes head-shaking sound]
[SPIKE jingle plays]
Spike! I love you
Spike! So dreamy
Spike! Your trench coat
Spike! I love you
Spike! Your black nails
Spike! Peroxide
Kristin:​ So this is hot, hot, hot!
Jenny:​ Great. Love to see it.
Kristin:​ Love to see it too. Harmony explains to her minions, "don't worry, we used
to go steady." [laughs]
Jenny:​ Oh my god.
Kristin:​ And she tells Spike—
Jenny:​ What she's been up to.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ Mustering a gang…


Kristin:​ Yeah!
Jenny:​ Collecting minions. Spike thinks this is ​adorable​. She's like, "I've been
reading" and he's like, "what? Evil for Dummies?" Rude!
Kristin:​ [laughs] Right, which is super rude and condescend-y…
Jenny:​ But also very funny.
Kristin:​ But right, it's funny patriarchy, ha-ha-ha-ha!
Jenny:​ Ha!
Kristin:​ But—right. So they're going back and forth, and then she's like, "I'm killing
the Slayer." And he's like, "Well, now you're singing my fucking song. But also,
LOL, this is probably your plan, right?" And she's like, "no!" I would love to know
what Harmony's first plan was.
Jenny:​ I—I… would pay!
Kristin:​ Right? Just like… can we get a special bonus episode of what Harmony's
plan was before Spike told her how to kill the Slayer.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ So Spike leaves and Harmony, of course, is like, "hey guys, new plan.
Based on what Spike has just told me, we need to get bait, we need to use the bait
to get the Slayer, blah blah blah."
Jenny:​ Oh my god.
Kristin:​ Cut to… the Summers home. Dawn overhears Buffy being… a jerk. I mean,
she's mad. And to be fair, she's mad because Joyce hasn't been the best mom in
this episode to her, and she's put Buffy at a disadvantage. She has not—I don't
think that Joyce has set her daughters up for success in this episode.
Jenny:​ True!
Kristin:​ [laughs] I think she's really fanning the flames by the way that she's
handling things. And so Buffy is, you know, reasonably and understandably just
being upset amongst her friends, not realizing that Dawn—I mean, she should
realize, 'cause the main role of a younger sister is to eavesdrop outside the door.
Dawn hears this.


Jenny:​ But she really hears the worst part and then walks away before she can
hear anything redeeming.
Kristin:​ Right, of course. I mean, it is television, after all. [laughs]
Jenny:​ It is television.
Kristin:​ So… we get more from Buffy. You know, she's just a kid, I was just a kid.
And then Buffy says something that I think is very interesting. She says, "we're
coddling her, we're turning her"—I mean, she didn't have to say "a little idiot." But
"we're turning her into a little idiot who's gonna get us all killed."
Jenny:​ Yikes!
Kristin:​ Yikes, Buff. But also, there's something about the observation in like, why
can't we show her this stuff? She is the sister of the Slayer.
Jenny:​ Maybe that inspires Joyce to coddle extra hard because, by
comparison—like, she isn't able to coddle Buffy at all.
Kristin:​ Yeah. Good points.
Jenny:​ She can't protect Buffy from her sacred duty and all the things that are
trying to kill her all the time.
Kristin:​ Right. So Dawn runs out the door, distraught.
Jenny:​ Anya runs after her.
Kristin:​ Anya's like, "Stop! No!" [both laugh] And Anya's like, "you have to come
back inside." And then Mort appears.
Jenny:​ Boo! Big, beefy Mort.
Kristin: ​Ooh, he punches Anya.
Jenny:​ I don't like that.
Kristin:​ Ooh, it's really not something that anybody likes to see. Anya gets, like,
really injured. Punched hard, she's splayed across the kitchen floor, and they take
Dawn, of course, as the bait. Anya is sort of trying to tell the gang what's happened


and she's real fucked up. She needs to go to the Sunnydale hospital. [laughs]
Just—keep an eye on her, guys.
Jenny:​ Yeah. The Giles—the Rupert Giles Memorial Concussion Hallway [Kristin
laughs] is where she'll be staying.
Kristin:​ We go back to Harmony's lair. She calls the minions the… miniatieres? I
believe? [Jenny laughs] Which is nice. She makes a joke and nobody gets it and
she's like, "I'm trying to be sarcastic!" Like, have you guys not been watching this
television show called Buffy the Vampire Slayer? [laughs]
Jenny: ​Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: ​But she's defending—not defending, but she's basically like, "Listen, we're
not eating Dawn. That's not what the plan is and we're sticking to the plan." But
you have to imagine that there's more going on here for Harmony, because—I
mean, technically they don't need Dawn in the plan.
Jenny:​ Yeah. What's that—
Kristin:​ So it seems like…
Jenny:​ It feels to me like she's like, I have to stick to the plan or I'll fuck it up!
Kristin:​ [laughing] Yeah, you're right. Okay, that's fair.
Jenny:​ In a way that I can't preconceive. And so she's like, running down their
to-do list and mentions that there's gonna be another note that goes to Buffy. And
the minions are like, "more notes?!" [Kristin laughs] More smiley faces?
Kristin:​ And then Buffy of course is like, "yo, you deal with Anya, I'm gonna go get
my sister." And goes immediately to Spike's. Now. Spike is talking about satellite
dishes, and the only reason I bring it up is because [starts laughing] he has this
amazing line when Buffy walks in and he goes, "Speaking of dishes." [both laugh]
And it just—listen, I know he's objectifying women and whatever, the patriarchy.
But it was a funny line.
Jenny:​ When you get out your shovel and you go in the backyard and you dig for
about two to three good hours to unearth a word like ​dish​, [Kristin laughs] can you
really even include it in the column of objectification?
Kristin:​ Ah, "speaking of dishes." And so she's like, "where the fuck is Harmony's
lair? I know you know where she lives."


Jenny:​ Punch, punch, punch.
Kristin:​ Right. He tells her… [laughs] and then she punches him again.
Jenny:​ Just one more time for good measure.
Kristin:​ Right, which is great.
Jenny: ​'Cause she's pissed.
Kristin:​ We haven't gotten a ton of the Buffy/Spike dynamic in this season yet, so
we're just re-acclimating—
Jenny:​ Yeah, yeah.
Kristin:​ To these two and their… foibles?
Jenny:​ Huh… yes. And then—and then! Listen, this is a great episode for everyone
relating to Dawn. We get to see Harmony complaining to Dawn, her prisoner, about
how hard it is to be her and how difficult it is to be a leader and nobody's taking her
seriously. And she feels… you know.
Kristin:​ Yeah. They don't understand her. They don't understand the pressure
she's under.
Jenny:​ Mm-hm, mm-hm, mm-hm.
Kristin:​ Then the minions turn on Harmony and Dawn. They're going to kill
Harmony and eat Dawn.
Jenny:​ Just to be clear, Brad abstained from this vote, but he'll probably just go
with the majority.
Kristin:​ [laughing] Aw, Brad… has such a crush on Harmony. Who doesn't?
Jenny:​ Aw.
Kristin:​ So Dawn says, "Touch me and my sister's gonna kill you." Before we get
the great other half of this, which is that, in fact, Buffy does arrive and kill
this—Cyrus. Kill Cyrus, goodbye, Cyrus.
Jenny:​ Bye, Cyrus.


Kristin:​ We will never see ye again but we will see Tom Lenk again.
Jenny:​ Hurray!
Kristin:​ But before that kill happens… [laughs] Buffy rolls up and Harmony whips
around and says, "So Slayer— [both laughing] at last we meet!" And Buffy's like,
"Harmony. We literally went to high school together."
Jenny:​ Yeah. And we've also mixed it up since you've been a vampire.
Kristin:​ Oh my god, it's so fucking good. [Jenny laughs] It's so—this is like last
episode, Ian Carlos Crawford of Slayerfest98 talked about this beauty of Buffy, the
humor and seriousness mixed in. And this just like, a classic Buffy the Vampire
Slayer moment.
Jenny:​ Yes, yes.
Kristin:​ So she kills almost all of the minions, and of course, Mort—Mort the
Meathead is left.
Jenny:​ Ha!
Kristin:​ And they fight. They really—Mort has some strength, because they tussle.
And while that's happening, Harmony's like, "I'm fucking outta here." [both laugh]
"Gotta go!" Not before Buffy explains to Harmony that not only was—I don't really
love this part. She's like, "you were bad at being a cheerleader, you were bad at
being this, and now you suck at being bad!"
Jenny:​ Whoa, whoa, whoa, Buffy!
Kristin:​ I know.
Jenny:​ I feel like Harmony's not getting enough credit here.
Kristin:​ I agree! I think Harmony—I mean, I know that Harmony's—
Jenny:​ This feels like a retcon.
Kristin:​ Yes.
Jenny:​ Collective memory.


Kristin:​ Thank you. So anyhow, Harmony escapes, and fucking Buffy, of course,
uses the giant unicorn to kill Mort.
Jenny:​ Listen, big vampire? You need a big stake. Sometimes that stake is shaped
like a unicorn!
Kristin:​ [laughs] Dawn's like, "I'm telling Mom that you slayed in front of me!"
Jenny:​ Like, would you prefer, Joyce, that Buffy let a vampire live in front of
Dawn?
Kristin:​ Joyce is all mixed up. She may have. But, as you know if you watched the
episode… they don't tell on each other! They get home and they both cover for each
other.
Jenny:​ It's very sweet!
Kristin:​ Yes, this is the other side—
Jenny:​ Sisters!
Kristin:​ Of siblinghood, is that like, yes, you're at each other's throats but if you
have a good relationship with your sibling, you know that—
Jenny:​ You know that your common enemy is your parents.
Kristin:​ [laughing] Precisely! So we're almost to the end. We have—the last scene
is in the Magic Box. But Jenny, before we get there, we probably should talk about
sexiness and tension and where that Venn diagram overlaps.
Jenny:​ Yeah, let's talk about…
[SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays]
Sexual tension award!
Jenny:​ Yeah, you heard our winners for Season 5, Episode 1 in the intro. And now
we're gonna tell you about the STA nominees for Season 5, Episode 2, Real Me.
Kristin:​ Holy shit, first up, hot-hot-hot out of the cougar gates, we've got Riley and
Joyce.
Jenny:​ It's mountain lion season, baby, and they're hungry for military meat.


Kristin:​ [laughs] Your mom meets the butterscotch hunk.
Jenny:​ [laughs] Next up we've got an equally spicy pairing. [Kristin laughs]
Willow… and Buffy's work ethic. Mm, yes!
Kristin:​ Mm, yeah, tasty!
Jenny:​ Sparks will fly!
Kristin:​ [laughs] Third up, we have probably the one you knew we were gonna
choose, which is Spike and Harmony, meeting together again. Spike turned on by
Harmony's self-possessed new attitude.
Jenny:​ Yeah, sparks flying there also, but please step back, because Immolation
Watch. [Kristin laughs] And in the fourth slot… woo! There comes a time in every…
British gentleman's life when he must firmly grip the steering wheel of his
existence. Take control of his destiny. ​Shift i​ nto drive and not neutral, and
potentially enjoy sexual tension between Giles and his sporty little temptress of a
new car!
Kristin:​ You think, uh… he wants to, uh… lay on the hood of that car with Joyce,
or… ?
Jenny:​ Ahh! I don't know. Wow! Wow-wow-wow-wow-wow.
Kristin: ​So there you have it. Follow us, of course—everywhere, really—but on
Twitter is where you'll find the poll: @bufferingcast. The poll stays open for one
week, so get on over there. You can vote and you—
Jenny:​ Make your voice heard!
Kristin:​ You decide the winner. And I know we have a lot of new voters, because
last episode when I put up the poll, we had a lot of people replying, being like, I
have been waiting to participate in my first Sexual Tension Awards poll!
Jenny:​ [laughs] Welcome!
Kristin:​ For so long! And this is my first vote!
Jenny:​ This is your moment!
Kristin:​ Yes, so welcome. Go along and vote. That has been your Sexual Tension
Awards.


[SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays]
Sexual tension award!
Jenny:​ Alright, let's wrap up this episode. There's only a couple more things that
happen.
Kristin:​ Yes, first a joke about Spinal Tap.
Jenny:​ Hurray.
Kristin:​ Never saw it coming.
Jenny:​ Ha!
Kristin:​ I had no idea, anything about Spinal Tap. I looked it up after I watched the
episode. I didn't—
Jenny:​ And what'd you learn?
Kristin:​ That they're a fictional band.
Jenny:​ Yeah!
Kristin:​ I had no idea!
Jenny:​ Oh my god.
Kristin:​ 'Cause I was like—I literally was like, let me look this up, is this a
distasteful joke about the drummers dying at an early age? And then I learned that
Spinal Tap—in case you, like me, do not know—Spinal Tap is a fictional band
that—one of the ongoing gags was that the drummers were constantly dying [Jenny
laughs] from really random things, in really random and hilarious ways. So that's
where this joke comes from. I'm here to not know anything about pop culture, for
those of you who also don't, so we can go on a journey together.
Jenny:​ Ha!
Kristin:​ Okay. So… Giles is gonna take over the Magic Box.
Jenny: ​Despite the fact… that there's a very high mortality rate. And one of his
prime reasons, I think, is because he was so bored last season that he watched
Passions with Spike.


Kristin:​ [laughing] And may you never speak of it.
Jenny:​ He just wants to forget.
Kristin:​ [laughs] So… right. So Buffy and Giles sort of are talking about this Magic
Box thing, they're going, I think, in to train. And Buffy pokes her head out and is
like, "Dawn. Don't move! Dawn, stay where you are. Dawn, don't fuck anything up!
Dawn." And Dawn is sort of giving a voice to, like, "you know, I still hate my sister,
but.​ Okay."
Jenny:​ "But she's okay, I guess."
Kristin:​ "She's alright." And then she writes in her diary: "She still thinks I'm her
dumb little sister. Boy is she in for a surprise."
Jenny:​ Dun-dun-dun!
Kristin:​ So.
Jenny:​ Wonder where that could possibly lead.
Kristin:​ Who knows?
Jenny:​ Well! That about does it for this episode, I suppose! I am and shall continue
to ever be… Jenny Owen Youngs. And when I'm not watching Buffy and making this
podcast, I am writing and recording songs. I have a couple new songs out right now
and an EP that's up for preorder. You can find all that stuff at
jennyowenyoungs.com. And you can also listen to me talk about another TV show
that centers around another very…
Kristin:​ Petite blond?
Jenny:​ A petite, clever, powerful blond named Veronica Mars. That podcast is
called Veronica Mars Investigations, and you can find it wherever you listen to
podcasts.
Kristin:​ Hell yeah. And I am Kristin Russo. You can find me on social media and my
website is all KristinNoeline. They haven't heard the jingle in a while, Jenny, let's
play them the beautiful Kristin Noeline jingle you made.
Jenny:​ Hit it, me!


[KRISTIN NOELINE jingle plays]
Kristin with an I
N-O-E-L-I-N-E
Kristin:​ So you can learn about the work that I do with LGBTQ communities. You
can also follow and find me with my new podcast where I am talking with Joanna
Robinson about the television show My So-Called Life. You better get on in there,
'cause there's only 19 episodes. It does not feature a petite bad ass blond, but it
does feature a Crimson Glow-dyed Angela Chase, who's a pretty big bad ass
herself.
Jenny:​ Mm-hmm.
Kristin:​ So tune in over there. I think we have a great little stack going, Jenny,
because if I'm not mistaken, Veronica Mars airs on Tuesdays, Buffering and Angel
on Wednesdays, and then The Boiler Room goes on Thursdays. So. We're in your
ears all week.
Jenny:​ Taking over your week.
Kristin:​ Yeah. Also, I just wanna give a shout to the fact that over the summer, I
created an e-care package. The e-care package is for parents and loved ones of
trans people—youth, but also people of all ages. It's a really powerful tool. You can
find information about that at mykidisgay.com, which is a site that I run. We're into
October now, and October 11th is National Coming Out Day. It's gonna be a great
day to spread the word about that e-care package. People need to learn about it, so
please help me spread the word. How about us, where can they find us?
Jenny:​ Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram
@bufferingcast. And you can always email us at
bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin:​ Yes, and you can find us on our website, bufferingthevampireslayer.com,
where you can click on things like Shop to support us. It's one of many ways to
support us. We have some really incredible stuff in the store. If there are any
posters left, we've got those beautiful posters designed by Kate Leth
commemorating the Season 5 premiere. And of course, all of your Smash the
Demon Lizard Patriarchy and Support Your Local Alewife and Girl Gang
paraphernalia that you love and know.
Also, you can support us on Patreon. We have a lot of things happening in Patreon.
We do Buffy watches over there, you can get into the secret Facebook group, you
get the music in advance. We now have a private RSS feed over there, which


means that if you give at any level, the bonus episodes that go to you will go right
to your podcatcher of choice. And if you wanna listen to us ad-free, the $10 patrons
now get ad-free episodes in that feed as well. So good stuff happening over there.
And don't forget, you can get exclusive merchandise at that $25 level. Hell yeah.
Jenny:​ Hell yeah. And… till next time…
Jenny and Kristin:​ Awwwoooooo!
[Jenny performing “Real Me” off the album Songs from Season 5 by Buffering
the Vampire Slayer]
Doobydoobydoo, business as usual
Doing what I do, handstands and such
Crystals stacked up, helping me focus
Honing in on — Ugh, can we go yet?!
Doobydoobydoo, business as usual
Doing what I do, out on patrol
Dawn needs a sitter, yeah, I already know this — No I don’t!
But I can get Xander on really short notice
Oh, Xander’s coming? Yeah, yeah okay. I *love* a sitter!
Doobydoobydoo, business as usual
Doing what I do, cleaning up Dawn’s mess
Why’d I have to get stuck with the worst brat
For my only sister when you know — Hey, I heard that!
Ooh, I got stuck with the weight of the world
Ooh, and she gets to be an ordinary girl
Wish I wasn’t just an ordinary girl
Doobydoobydoo, business as usual
Doing what I do, saving my sis
For you, I’d fight a million of these nasty blood suckers
Even though you really can be such a little — You love me!
Why don’t you come inside and say that?!
Ah shoot I should know better by now
I am basically an adult!!
But like, what do you think Xander’s doing right now?
*Sigh* dear diary…
Okay, I like BARELY even got kidnapped


What’s the big deal? You need some stuff to do around here anyway!

