Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 4.15: This Year’s Girl
[CHIME]
Kristin​: Holy crap. [Sings] Happy new year! It's 2019, welcome to it. What a way
for us to kick off 2019, Scoobies. We have a live episode from London coming right
up after I stop yapping. The episode is about Faith and Buffy. Plus today is also the
day that we release our Prom tickets in New York City for sale. So it's almost too
much, I understand if you need to hit pause, take it — you know, inhale, exhale. I
could walk us through meditation right now, but I'm not going to do that. You do
that on your own time.
So let's talk about Prom first. If you missed it, we're throwing a Prom again this
year and this time it's happening at the Ace Hotel in New York City on March 9th, of
course, in the year 2019. All of the details can be found by going to
bufferingthevampireslayer.com/prom and tickets will go up for sale at 8am today,
January 9th, now here's a few more details about Prom.
Okay. We're doing two things differently this year. First we're selling a limited
amount of combo tickets that will also cover you for a brunch with Jenny and I on
the morning of March 10th that's also happening at the Ace Hotel. You can grab one
of those combo tickets while they last and that will also cover the cost of your
breakfast and coffee and tea and all that good stuff and we will, of course, sit down
and unpack how the evening went, how hard everyone Prommed, et cetera. It's
going to be very fun. Second, tickets to prom are $75 this year and they come with
a complimentary drink ticket. Now we know that not everyone can afford a $75
ticket, so we've held back a section of tickets to donate to those who do not have
the funds to cover the cost. If you can cover the cost on someone else's behalf, so
either you're going to Prom and you have an extra $75 to spare or you live
somewhere else and you want to donate a ticket, there is a ticket option to donate
a ticket to somebody else.
As those donated tickets come in, we will release them to those of you who apply
for a donated ticket. If you're someone who wants to apply for that covered ticket,
you can find the link to that form at bufferingthevampireslaye.com/prom. Please
know that depending on interest and donated ticket counts, we won't be able to
guarantee tickets to all of our applicants, but we will do our best to get as many of
you in as we can. We are so excited about [sings] Prom in New York City. Okay.
You know I'm excited when I sing.
Another thing we're really excited about, but I'm going to save you from more of
my singing, is that in just 10 days we're going to be in Seattle at PodCon. If you're


coming out to see us at PodCon, we cannot wait. And heads up we will be doing a
live taping of Who Are You? which, of course, is the second part of this
to-be-continued episode. That means you get two live episodes back to back and all
of them are full of Faith and Buffy. 2019 is off to a fucking banner start.
That's right, I cursed in the intro. You can't stop me! Man, it's exciting. Okay,
Seattle, one more thing for you. We are doing a meetup at MoPOP on January 21st.
That is a Monday at 11am. At 11am we're going to head into the museum, we're
going to see Mr Pointy, the actual Mr Pointy who lives inside of MoPOP, as well as
the other amazing exhibits they have going on at MoPOP. And then at noon we're
going to convene in the lounge space at the museum to hang out for another hour.
There's no cost to meet us at the lounge, so if you don't have the funds and/or the
time to meet us at 11 for the museum, you can also just come and meet us at
noon. If you are coming to the museum, get there a little early to grab your tickets
and check out the event page for a special secret discount code for your admission.
All the details are, of course, up on our website, bufferingthevampireslayer.com,
just click on ‘calendar’, go to the 21st, click on that event and you can get all of
those details. Okay friends, it is time for...
[SPOOKY NEWS jingle plays]
Spooky news!
So Mia from Brighton sent me this Spooky News. I love when you send me Spooky
News. So please, if you find any news, and it is of the spooky variety, email it to
bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com. Okay, so the title of this article from The
Independent is ‘Vampire killing ritual could explain prehistoric skeletons found in
Yorkshire’. Now I'm not going to give you the whole thing, but you can Google that
if you want to read the whole thing. But basically two super bizarre prehistoric
human burials were found in Yorkshire. Excavations near the town of Pocklington
unearthed a pair of mysterious third century BC iron age graves containing the
skeletons of potentially high status individuals. Now, these individuals who they
think were between the ages of 17 and 25, they think may have been killed twice or
even three times. A detailed examination of the skeleton shows that probably after
this human's death, the body was then exhumed and ritually pierced by spears and
also had received a potentially lethal blow to the forehead, delivered with maybe a
wooden club or a similar weapon.
So the person writing this article, or maybe the scientist, I don't know who's
reasoning, but they're like, “here's some reasons.” You know, he could've been a
respected warrior who died of natural causes and not in battle. And so they wanted
to make sure that like he got to die a warrior's death so they speared him or, here's
another possibility, maybe after death he was feared and in many parts of the world
there's evidence for a tradition in which some corpses were systematically speared


by sharp objects. And in parentheticals they say those suspected quote “vampires”
and other quote “revenance”.
Here's what I want. Oh, there's a third possibility - maybe they were put in the
ground alive and then ritually murdered. That's all spooky. But what I want to tell
the author of this article, let's see who the author is, what I want to tell you David
Keys, [laughs] is that probably they were just straight up vampires, maybe even
zombies. I get it, you're a scientist and you want to find the clear reasoning for this,
but us here over in the land of Buffering The Vampire Slayer, we know how to
scientifically denote a demon when we see one. And I want to say that I think these
were some straight up UK vampires. Okay. Also, why are all of my Spooky News
stories from the UK? What's going on over there, you guys.? So that's the Spooky
News for this week.
[SPOOKY NEWS jingle plays]
Spooky news!
Also, I know we're on the other side of the Spooky News jingle, but listen,
somebody named Sinead wrote in to give us a little more information on a previous
Spooky News — the thousands of human teeth that were found in the walls. So
recently in Sinead’s house there was plumbing work done and the repairman
opened the wall to find hundreds of razorblades hidden in it. So they looked it up
and found that in the 50s, every medicine cabinet had a slot to put used razors in,
but the slots just led to the inside of the wall. So they figured that that was a safe
way to dispose of razors and so Sinead wonders, hmm, perhaps there was a similar
thing with dentists. Maybe they didn't know what to do with the teeth and they
figured putting them in the walls was convenient. So if you know more about this,
why are teeth and walls thing? Listen, write in. Let me know. We all want to know.
We all know about the Spooky News.
Okay, moving along. I'm going to tell you the award winners for the Sexual Tension
Award from Goodbye Iowa. Now, a couple of you were really upset that this was
put in the intro last episode. And I want to say, I hear you, Jenny hears you, we
hear you. You want the winners to be with the nominees. You like talking about it
all together. You want to hear Jenny's — we get it, we get it. The only reason that
we put this up in the intro is because a lot of times we're recording out of order or
we're doing a live episode and so we can't get the winners in. So whenever we can
get the winners in the episode, we will do that for you, you beautiful souls.
But when we can’t, I'm going to put them up in the intro. So listen, if you want to
skip it, if you don't like it up here, I get it. But Goodbye Iowa. We had a tie for last
place, Xander and Riley came in with 19%. Adam and his hard drives came in at
19%. In, I guess, second place, yeah, would be Anya, Buffy and Willow. They came


in with 22% of the vote. And our winners for Goodbye Iowa, not the first time
they've won and probably not the last time they're going to win, Tara and Willow.
So a couple of little things before we roll into this really fun episode. We did it at
The Vampire Ball in London. We had so much freaking fun and you're going to have
a good time listening to it. But I just want to let you know that if you're a Patreon
supporter of us, there's some bonus material. In a week or so, we're gonna have a
bonus video of this whole episode so you can watch us tape onstage at London.
That will be for all of our Patrons at any level a dollar or higher. If you are a $10
Patron, you got a mailbag last week. So that's fun. And if you are a $10 Patron,
you're also going to get the Q&A that happened after this episode. So we had
several of you who came up and asked us questions after we did the live taping,
some about the episode, some — you know, most of them about Faith and Buffy.
So you'll get that little bonus episode as well if you're a $10 Patron or higher.
Last but certainly not least, thank you, thank you to Lauren Kline, our dutiful sound
engineer. And you can follow Lauren if you want to know what sound engineers are
up to in their everyday life @laurentaylorkline on Instagram. Thank you all. Happy
new year. Holy shit. Let's get into some Faith and Buffy!
[Buffering theme]
[Cheering and applause]
Jenny​: Yes!
Kristin​: [Laughs]
Jenny​: Beautiful! Well! Yes! Hello and welcome to Buffering The Vampire Slayer, a
podcast where we are watching and discussing every episode of Buffy The Vampire
Slayer in sweet, succulent chronological order. Spoiler-free. I am Jenny Owen
Youngs.
Kristin​: And I am Kristin Russo. And this week we are talking about Season 4,
Episode 15, This Year's Girl. Every year’s girl, I say. [Crowd laughs] Stay tuned at
the end of the podcast for an original song written by us recapping the episode we
are discussing.
Jenny​: This Year's Girl was written by Doug Petrie and directed by Michael
Gershman. It originally aired February 22nd in the year 2000.
Kristin​: Dammit. I really wanted it to air on February 25th.


Jenny​: Why?
Kristin​: Because Faith — ‘cause that girl in the hallway is like, “it's February 25th”
and I was like, ooh did they do it on the day that it aired?
Jenny​: No, they did it a few days before the 25th so that we would all have a
warning that Faith was about to wake up.
Kristin​: Ooh...
Jenny​: And we could avoid hospitals at all costs.
Kristin​: Always thinking, always thinking, those writers' rooms.
Jenny​: Yes!
Kristin​: [Laughs] In case you missed it, this is the one with Faith.
Jenny​: Faith’s back!
Kristin​: Yeah! ‘This is the one where Faith — it says on IMDB, ‘this is the one
where Faith awakens from her coma and seeks revenge against Buffy.’ which is
pretty much nails it.
Jenny​: Yes.
Kristin​: They leave out all the sexual tension but they knew we'd be here.
[Crowd laughs and cheers]
Jenny​: To take care of it. Yes! So, previously on —
Kristin​: Oh my god.
Jenny​: Boob windows and big knives!
Kristin​: Can you give a cheer if you watched this episode in real time when it aired
on television?
[Crowd cheers]
Jenny​: Nice.


Kristin​: ‘Cause I didn't and I — when I saw the previous land I was like, oh my
god, they must have all dropped dead immediately. ‘Cause you don't know, or
maybe you did know, maybe you read the TV guide. Do you have the TV guide in
London? We’re in London by the way!
Jenny​: Ah, yes!
Kristin​: I was telling the people inside the microphone.
[Crowd laughs]
Kristin​: So, but right? Could you imagine finding this out in real time? You turn on
your TV, you're like 12, I don't know how old you were when you watched it. I was
older but I tried to make myself seem younger with that telling.
Jenny​: Nice, really nice. Beautiful.
Kristin​: Thank you. Yeah. “I'm Faith”. We get the boob window, yeah?
Jenny​: Yes, the classic Faith boob window, backwards headbutt. And, and, and,
and, and, and… Ooh the most beautiful thing you could ever hope for in a
‘previously on’, which is, of course, “there's no way this girl is ever going to wake
up from this coma…” which means she's going to wake up from the coma!
[Crowd laughs]
Kristin​: [Laughs] She is. We also get some nice closeups on the knife in the
‘previously on’. And I want to give a shout out to Lucy who is in the audience
somewhere. Where's Lucy? There's Lucy.
Jenny​: Hello Lucy!
[Crowd applauds]
Kristin​: Lucy gave us — you don’t even know why you're clapping! Do you all know
why you’re clapping?
Jenny​: No, they just do what we say.
[Crowd laughs]
Kristin​: [Laughs] They're like, “Lucy, yeah!” Lucy gave Jenny and I the knife, the
replica of the knife.


Jenny​: The Jackal as it’s formally known.
Kristin​: The Jackal. Which we treasure so, so dearly. And we were so excited to get
to meet Lucy in person. So now you can cheer for Lucy. [Laughs]
[Crowd cheers]
Jenny​: Thank you, Lucy.
Kristin​: We also get in the ‘previously on’ — This is going to be a lengthy episode
‘cause I have so many notes just in the ‘previously on’.
Jenny​: Uh huh, uh huh.
Kristin​: But we get what I now refer to as Riley's kink line. His favorite kink line of
2000. “You're really strong. I like it.”
Jenny​: “I like it.”
[Crowd laughs]
Kristin​: Yeah, Riley's moment of reckoning. We get a classic, “Adam?” “mommy”
because we will never hear that enough. We will. I've heard it enough.
[Crowd laughs]
Kristin​: And we get Lindsay Crouse —Maggie Walsh as Lindsay Crouse’s favorite
line, I think: “some little bitch” which I heard you all chuckle at politely, but you
chuckled, you know?
Jenny​: So polite here. Everyone's so polite here. The intersection of a largely
English crowd and Buffy fandom is possibly — that section of the Venn diagram is
the most polite I think that it gets.
Kristin​: Yeah, which actually brings us — unless you have more notes on the
‘previously on’, Jenny?
Jenny​: My only note was ‘boob windows, big knives’. ‘This girl's never going to
regain consciousness’.
Kristin​: And there’s our next t-shirt.


[Crowd laughs]
Kristin​: [Laughs] Boob windows, big knives. So we roll out of the ‘previously on’
right into the dream. One of two dreams.
Jenny​: Three. Aren't there three?
Kristin​: Huh? Oh, there's —
Jenny​: Yes.
Kristin​: No.
Jenny​: Yes. The bed, the picnic, the graveyard.
Kristin​: Well, but the graveyard — she isn't she — we'll get there. I have it as
dream two, part one and part two.
Jenny​: Okay.
Kristin​: We'll discuss.
Jenny​: Alright.
Kristin​: We'll argue, maybe if you're lucky —
Jenny​: Listen, they’re working so hard to make that bed and the sheet is uneven.
It's very stressful. It’s short on Faith’s side and long on Buffy’s side!
Kristin​: But I think they do a great job changing the sheets together, personally.
The reason that I was — the segway that I was going to use, Jenny, was that we
had a little fan meetup yesterday and in the fan meetup I was like, “why are they
changing the sheets though? That's what I want to know. Pew, pew, pew!” And
everybody was so polite and they were like, “teehee” and I was like, “guys ‘cause
sex and sheets.” And they were like, “yeah, it's a little much for us.” And I was like
—
[Crowd laughs]
Jenny​: [Laughs] “We don’t have sex here. As a concept it does not exist.”
Kristin​: [Laughs] But yeah, they're changing the sheets. Faith is, you know, knows
that Buffy has a lot to prepare for. What with “little sis coming.”


Jenny​: What could that mean?
Kristin​: I don’t know. Yeah.
Jenny​: Interesting.
Kristin​: What a weird thing to say. And my note of this scene is, “oh man, you
know that feeling when you change the sheets with your gal pal. But then she guts
you with your own knife, classic!”
[Crowd laughs]
Jenny​: Oh my god. Also, [imitates Faith] “are you ever going to take this thing
out?”
[Crowd laughs]
Jenny​: That’s what she said! Literally! She literally said that!
Kristin​: [Laughs] And then, of course, we cut to what I have called the Faith coma
machine cause I'm a doctor.
Jenny​: Sure. That's definitely the technical term.
Kristin​: And her eyes are a-stir.
Jenny​: Mmm… You know when you're in a coma but lightning is flashing while
you're having a spooky prophetic, possibly, dream.
Kristin​: Yeah. Well that lightning's got a flash if it's going to rain later so that
everybody can get all wet. Okay. I'll talk about that more when we get there.
[Crowd laughs]
Kristin​: [Clears throat]
Jenny​: Speaking of all wet —
Kristin​: [Laughs] My favorite segway.
Jenny​: Yeah! How about Xander using — coining the word —


Kristin​: Orgasmater?
Jenny​: Orgasmater.
Kristin​: How about Xander’s frickin outfit?!
[Crowd laughs]
Jenny​: So the shirt is too big and the sweater vest is too small, but also it's not
really sweater vest shape. It's more like a sweater with the sleeves cut off.
Kristin​: I just feel like in this episode they were like, “can we make Willow and
Xander look like the funny pals — friends?” They just are dressed so — I mean I
know that there is some dress — especially with Willow, but this — Xander in this
outfit and then Willow in this definitely —
Jenny​: The bucket hat.
Kristin​: Do you have the Chicos here? You might not have Chicos here.
Jenny​: Chicos is where Pat shops.
Kristin​: Yes, she went —
Jenny​: You remember Pat?
Kristin​: She got this outfit from Pat's closet. That's a perfect way of putting it.
Jenny​: Thank you.
Kristin​: Which is the sweater and then the hat that looks like that game Simon
from the eighties or the nineties, you know?
Jenny​: Oh, yeah! Simon sounds English, maybe you guys have Simon here?
[Crowd laughs]
Kristin​: I think they had Simon. No, you just laughed?
[Crowd laughs]
Kristin​: Oh, you're so nice. You had Simon? Good, great. Then we get this
wonderful shot of Giles folding his boxers.


Jenny​: So inappropriate!
[Crowd laughs]
Jenny​: I mean, just within the context. I know they're out of high school, but still
who wants to watch hot work dad fold his under-things?
Kristin​: I mean, a couple of people probably do.
Jenny​: But those people are not Buffy, Willow or Xander or Anya. Is Anya there?
Or is it just the three?
Kristin​: Anya is not there in this scene, but Anya is there, staying there, because I
remember —
Jenny​: She could walk in at any moment.
Kristin​: She could walk in at any moment. Why is Giles staying down there? I
know they're hiding —
Jenny​: For safety. He could get a hotel.
Kristin​: Wouldn’t he be in a hotel? He's an adult man.
Jenny​: He’s an adult man.
Kristin​: Yeah, he’s an adult man. But we do get this boxer-folding shot and then
Xander has this whole arc, which you all loved, we got to watch this episode with
you and you just loved the arc of Xander not being able to figure out the gun,
electrocuting himself — which is sad —
Jenny​: This is like a microcosm of The Zeppo. This is like the unseen trials and
tribulations of Xander. He often goes unappreciated. We tend to rag on Xander with
I think good reason, but he also is always working hard, sometimes in the
background, sometimes to his physical detriment. I don't know what happens once
you get electrocuted with a blaster, but probably nothing good.
Kristin​: Well Xander survived it and just had this very “we're in Season 4 now and
I know my place” kind of look on his face, like he's used to no-one noticing him.
Also just a slight note, Giles is sleeping downstairs in the Xander household, which
means that Mrs Xander —


[Crowd laughs]
Jenny​: Mrs Xander!
Kristin​: That's how it works. She's sleeping upstairs and I'm just wondering if they
have shared any fruit punch or any other pleasantries during this extended stay.
Just wondering. I don't know if I'll ever get the answer. Speaking of wondering
about sexy things, then we cut to a beautiful shot of Riley's pecs. Jenny, how are
you feeling?
Jenny​: Okay, so here's something that I've been meaning to bring up for a while
now. It seems that no-one — no men on this show have armpit hair. Angel seems
to be hairless. Riley seems to be hairless. I'm wondering whose decision that was.
Kristin​: I mean, these are also the men that Buffy is interested in. So maybe it's
part of her —
Jenny​: Is it her thing? Is it somebody on staff who’s creating the world and is like,
“God made a mistake.”
[Crowd laughs]
Kristin​: [Laughs] I'm really glad you brought up Angel too, because to me I was
like, oh, this is like — normally we see Angel having difficulty buttoning his shirt.
And what we've learned here is that Riley is able to button his shirt and both things
result in us seeing their full chest.
Jenny​: Hooray! Victory!
Kristin​: Someone who is really into seeing Riley's whole chest is Forrest. Literally I
can't with Forrest. We kind of teased it a little early, before it got, you know, in our
faces.
Jenny​: This is powerful.
Kristin​: “A shish kebab that walks like a man”, he says as he oggles Riley from
behind. It's like his version — can you do a high pitch sexy whistle? I can't whistle.
Jenny​: Like [Whistles]
Kristin​: Yes.
[Someone in crowd whistles]


Kristin​: Oh, thank you, thank you! [Laughs] You were out whistled.
Jenny​: I think it's called a wolf whistle.
Kristin​: Yeah, this is Forrest’s version of a wolf whistle. Graham comes along and
is — I know for Graham in this scene is so timid, so fair. He's just always so nice.
[Crowd laughs]
Jenny​: Yeah. Graham is very mellow.
Kristin​: Right?
Jenny​: Whereas Forrest is like, “don't even tell me you're going to see that
girlfriend” and like, where do you think he's going, dude? If you had a girlfriend I
think —
Kristin​: Forrest?
Jenny​: Yeah.
Kristin​: Forrest is definitely —
Jenny​: I know, I know, clearly in love with Riley and that is painful for him. But I'm
just saying if their positions were reversed, it's only natural that you would want to
go see your girlfriend after you were in the emergency ward having been shished —
having your kebab-shished.
[Crowd laughs]
Kristin​: Lovely.
Jenny​: Wanna go and get your other kebab shished? I should go.
[Crowd laughs]
Kristin​: [Laughs] Yeah. Right So, Forrest is like, “wah wah wah, have sex with me,
not with her.”
[Crowd laughs]


Kristin​: Then this beautiful zoom — this is one of my favorite parts of the whole
episode where it’s like crack of thunder, flash of lightning, camera pans down to
Faith. We see the sunrise or set, who knows? It's glowing in the sky. It’s just like,
you know, I mean, I guess when a Slayer comes out of a coma, it's a big deal. Even
if it wasn't a big deal to us ‘cause we want Faith to be back out of a coma. It just
seems like there's some forces at play —
Jenny​: Something like elemental?
Kristin​: Elemental, yes.
Jenny​: Okay, okay.
Kristin​: So now we go to dream number two, which I think continues into —
Jenny​: Whatever, part two of the dream sequences.
Kristin​: No, no, no. This is a separate dream.
Jenny​: Okay.
Kristin​: This is the same — it's important that I mark where a dream one begins
and ends and dream — so dream two, we get the mayor's back! Isn’t it so great to
see Harry Groener again.
[Crowd says yes]
Jenny​: Truly.
Kristin​: What a dream. It's like ever since — so I had the chance to sit down with
Harry and talk to him when we were back in season three before his unfortunate
demise and change into a snake. And it's so weird to talk to people who play evil
characters and then are just really, really nice people because you — I just can't
ever trust them completely. And it's not their fault. It's just a hazard of the trade, I
guess. So now when I see him on screen, I'm like, “oh, he's so nice.” That's my
whole story.
Jenny​: He's also being really nice. They're just having a lovely day. A lovely picnic.
Kristin​: This is — Faith is dressed as the mayor wanted her to dress in this dream.
Oh, I guess that means it is three dreams. Goddammit.
Jenny​: Ah hah! [Imitates chainsaw] Third dreams!


Kristin​: They're sharing a PB and J, I think, perhaps?
Jenny​: Or something, yeah. And there’s a little snake.
Kristin​: A little snake, which is like — this is like an Adam and Eve reversal, I
think. Adam and Eve were there for the creation of the world, or whatever, in the
story.
[Crowd laughs]
Kristin​: You know? And now these two are attempting to end the world and like —
Jenny​: Sure. Also the mayor became a snake.
Kristin​: Yeah. Well I know, this is what happens when I watched the episode 7,000
times.
Jenny​: You're like, “beautiful nuances” and I'm like “mayor was a snake.”
[Crowd laughs]
Kristin​: Yeah. The mayor says something to Faith. He says “you're too young and
too pretty a girl to start wearing any worry lines on your face.”
[Crowd grumbles]
Jenny​: How dare?
Kristin​: To which I say…
Jenny​: Oh is it time already? So soon.
Kristin​: Excuse me.
[THE PATRIARCHY jingle plays]
The patriarchy! [thunder clap, evil laughter]
[Crowd cheers and applauds]
Jenny​: Tight.


Kristin​: question number one about — no, I have so many questions, but why does
Faith crawl on her hands and knees?
Jenny​: No, no, no, no. Why cheesecake at a picnic?
Kristin​: Oh, okay. Yeah, that's solid.
Jenny​: Eurgh.
Kristin​: But, I mean, we've learned that the mayor leaves his milk out. So…
Jenny​: True. Yes. He's a big room temperature dairy kind of guy. He is impervius, I
guess, at a certain point.
Kristin​: The epitome of evil, I think.
Jenny​: Right, Buffy kills the mayor in this dream and then Faith is crawling
because it's a dream. And that's what happens when you're in a dream.
Kristin​: In my sequence she crawled to the graveyard and then started running.
That's how I connected them.
Jenny​: And her clothes changed. Okay.
Kristin​:
Jenny​: Yeah. So the thing is that at this point in the episode, a plane flies
overhead.
[Crowd laughs]
Jenny​: Kate Bush is “pause for the jet” and I'm wondering, oh, hey, has Faith just
been having this kind of dream for the last eight months or is she surfacing slowly?
Regardless, wow. She's going to wake up real messed up.
Kristin​: Yeah. Well she has been having this dream and then dreams about cigars
and tunnels was what she said.
Jenny​: Was that like a sex thing?
Kristin​: I think so, right?
Jenny​: Okay.


[Someone in the crowd shouts “yeah”]
Jenny​: Someone is very certain.
Kristin​: [Laughs] So then Buffy debuts, I think, her leopard print coat and into the
woods she goes to discover this flayed demon.
Jenny​: Yeah, Adam's taking Bio 2 right now. So big dissection requirement —
Kristin​: Pretty rough.
Jenny​: — in that class.
Kristin​: I don't like demons, but I really don't like seeing demons treated like this,
you know?
Jenny​: Who ever wants to see a chest cavity flayed open and pinned especially —
Kristin​: Just Adam.
Jenny​: — hanging up. Yeah, just Adam, pretty much I think.
Kristin​: So the Scoobies are like plan, plan, plan, plan.
Jenny​: Yeah, Buffy’s like Saving Private Riley.
[Crowd laughs]
Kristin​: [Laughs] I love when you get to the line that you've been waiting to get
to. [Laughs] Right, and they're like, “Willow hack The Initiative and Xander keep
working on that gun.” And then Riley is like, “guys, don't worry about it. I'm right
here.” And you know what, a surprise for everyone, when I watched this episode
I'm really excited when Riley walks in. I don’t know!
[Crowd cheers]
Jenny​: Well, well, well, how the worms have turned!
Kristin​: It might've been the pecs earlier in the episode. I don't know what
happened.
Jenny​: You're just so thankful for a man who knows how to keep a shirt buttoned.


[Crowd laughs]
Jenny​: At long sweet last.
Kristin​: But yeah, I dunno. He's just a real hunk. I think they put him in bigger
shirts this episode to make him look a little like — ‘cause he's sick and recovering or
whatever. And I feel like the way that they helped visually cue us is his shirts are a
little baggier and maybe I'm into that.
Jenny​: Interesting.
Kristin​: Anyway, it's a moment. Savor it while it's here it will be gone as quick as it
arrived. [Laughs]. And now dream number three, unless you have —
Jenny​: Yeah, this is some Michael Myers shit. This is some classic horror. Slow
walk, knife up steady. No need to hurry. I'll get to you in time, kind of vibe. The
creepiest of all horror walks.
Kristin​: Buffy does a — Buffy?! Sarah Michelle Gellar does a good job with that
slow walk.
Jenny​: Yeah, it's real creepy, scary. I don't want that following me, personally.
Kristin​: And Faith falls into an open grave, like you do.
Jenny​: How can you have a dream and not fall into an open grave?
Kristin​: Classic and Buffy sort of pin drops into the grave, which is also really
creepy. And then it starts raining and everything gets all wet. And this —
[Crowd laughs]
Kristin​: So the reason that I feel that it's not stretching is because when Angel and
Buffy first had sex —
Jenny​: That's true.
Kristin​: — it rained.
Jenny​: They were all wet.
Kristin​: They were all — we talked for a long time about how they were all wet
from the rain. So I just feel like, you know, tit for tat over here. Tit for tit.


[Crowd laughs and applauds]
Jenny​: Goodness.
Kristin​: Faith crawls out of the grave and then she has this moment, I don't know
if you're familiar with the film, I Know What You Did Last Summer, but she's
literally like [shouts] “what are you waiting for?!” And I had this memory watching
the episode and I looked it up. I was like, oh, let me look it up cause I remembered
it in the rain. It's not in the rain. And there was Sarah Michelle Gellar standing right
behind Jennifer Love Hewitt in this movie that came out in 1997. So I just had a
nice moment with them.
Jenny​: She’s taking notes, “got it, got it, look to the sky, sure.”
Kristin​: She's like, “save this, three years, use it in my hit show, Buffy The
Vampire Slayer.” And then —
Jenny​: Also, wait, I think it's worth noting before Buffy, I think, pin drops, we're
seeing Faith from above in the grave and obviously the show — I think the show
does dream sequences like no other show. It's so great. I keep putting my tongue
on this mic pop filter by accident, I am so sorry to everyone else at the convention.
And Faith has her hands on the sides of the grave and the shot just kind of like
lingers for longer than it needs to, to establish anything. And she's kind of just
moving her hands awkwardly and it feels so extra dreamlike and I just want to
draw attention to that because there's — it's not sexy and there's no joke. But now
I said the thing that I liked and there you go. Thank you.
Kristin​: Thank you for saying that. I think at the end of the series, and maybe one
of you can be diligent enough to keep track of this, but I think at the end of the
series we should have a poll for the best dream sequence of all.
Jenny​: Sure.
Kristin​: ‘Cause they're all incredible and you are correct. So then, you know, after
Faith crawls out and is like, “what are you waiting for?!” We go to the hospital.
Jenny​: [Shouts] Oh my god! She's waking up! She was never supposed to wake
up!
[Crowd laughs]
Kristin​: But she did!


Jenny​: They said that it couldn't be done, but it's been done!
Kristin​: Dave, will you please play the Faith jingle?
[FAITH jingle plays]
She's from Boston, keeps it spotting, doesn't need any frills
Seems like she's the only one who's taking care of herself
Don't call her loser, she's a bruiser with the power and skill
But the demons deep inside her are the hardest to kill
Faith!
[Crowd cheers and applauds]
Jenny​: Ta da! Thank you, Dave!
Kristin​: Yes, thank you. Jenny just said, “I forgot there was a Faith jingle” and I
was so excited for this episode because we gave Faith her jingle at the end of her
time in season three and so we haven't been able to give her her song and we're
gonna — I'm going to at least give it to her twice.
[Crowd whistles and cheers]
Kristin​: Thank you for picking up on my innuendo.
Jenny​: Listen.
Kristin​: What?
Jenny​: Nothing.
Kristin​: [Laughs]
[Ad music starts]
Jenny​: Support from today’s show comes from Hello Fresh. Make slaying the
kitchen in 2019 a reality with deliciously simple recipes from Hello Fresh. Each week
Hello Fresh delivers pre-measured ingredients and easy to follow 6 step pictured
recipe cards to your door in a special insulated box. All meals come together in 30
minutes max, call for less than 2 pots and pans and require minimal clean up. Kind
of like dusting a vampire, you stake them, they go poof, they blow away in the
wind, it’s almost as if no mess ever happened.


With 3 plans to choose from including classic, veggie and family, as well as the
options to switch plans when your tastes change. There’s something for everyone.
There’s so much to love about Hello Fresh, I don’t even know where to start. What
do I love the most? Is it the convenience of these meals shipped directly to my
door? Is it the excitement of opening the box not knowing what’s going to happen,
what kind of recipes are going to come into my life and my kitchen? Or, oh my
gosh, maybe it’s just how delicious the food is.
Find out your favourite thing about Hello Fresh by taking advantage of their special
offer for 2019. Get $80 off your first month by going to hellofresh.com/buffering80
and enter promo code ‘Buffering80’. That’s hellofresh.com/buffering80 for $80 off
your first month.
Kristin​: Today’s episode is also brought to you by Pretty Litter. If you’ve ever
thought about getting a cat but can’t get past the gross litter box, you have to
check out Pretty Litter. It’s cat litter 2.0. It comes shipped right to your door in a
small, light bag that lasts the entire month. That means no inconvenient trips to the
pet store or cramming oversized bags of litter into the closet.
Pretty Litter has next-level odour protection. Instead of using clay or compost that
clumps and is impossible to clean up, Pretty Litter has super absorbent crystals that
trap and conceal odour and moisture, no smell, no mess. But the coolest thing
about Pretty Litter is that it monitors your cat’s health. Pretty Litter changes colours
to detect underlying illnesses before urgent medical care is needed. Saving you
money, stress and potentially your cat’s life.
Our cat Sam loves using Pretty Litter and I love the convenience more than
anything else. Not having to remember to get litter is super helpful and I know that
if someone switches bodies with me unexpectedly, my cat will still be taken care of.
Wow. Try Pretty Litter today by visiting prettylitter.com and use promo code ‘Buffy’
for 20% off your first order. That’s prettylitter.com, promo code ‘Buffy’ for 20% off.
[Ad music fades]
[Episode resumes]
Kristin​: Okay, we go to the hospital.
Jenny​: [Shouts] Well! Turns out that 8 months in a coma will not atrophy the
muscles of a Slayer!
Kristin​: [Shouts] That’s my note!


Jenny​: Nice note.
Kristin​: I mean, listen, you can't — even a Slayer, I think, after eight months
would have a little bit of a stumble. I know they recover quickly, but this seems
intense.
Jenny​: I agree.
Kristin​: Also we get a good old IV rip. I love anytime someone rips a IV out of their
arm in this show.
Jenny​: I’m pretty sure I've watched you rip an IV out of your hand. Is that
accurate?
Kristin​: It is accurate.
[Crowd laughs]
Jenny​: Okay. Kristen can't abide an IV.
Kristin​: It was actually the last time we did a live taping and watched the episode.
Remember?
Jenny​: Yes.
Kristin​: I had ripped an IV out of my arm and that was the episode [gasps], shit!
Jenny​: [Gasps]
Kristin​: Oh god, we gotta be careful. Okay.
Jenny​: Wow, you were just your mother.
Kristin​: Oh wow.
Jenny​: That's just for us.
Kristin​: [Laughs]
Jenny​: You were like, “ooh, shit!”
Kristin​: Hey, it happens to the best of us, you know?


Jenny​: Truly.
Kristin​: Listen, I have a bone to pick with the fucking Sunnydale hospital. What are
they doing? Where have they put Faith and/or can someone please give funding to
this hospital?
Jenny​: She’s in the ‘these girls will never wake up coma wing’.
[Crowd laughs]
Jenny​: There's no lights in the hallway, but somehow the teddy bear sweater girl
has wandered in. And can you imagine looking for your friend that you want to give
a teddy bear to in the hospital and then seeing Faith in her state in that moment
and being like, “here's the person I should ask for directions. This seems fine.”
Kristin​: And then can you imagine continuing on a conversation with them? “Oh,
well, you know, graduation. I mean, I shouldn't tell ya, but…”
Jenny​: [Laughs]
[Crowd laughs]
Jenny​: [Imitates teddy bear girl] “And now everyone’s dead!”
Kristin​: I know. I really liked this girl and I was like, let me see what else she did.
And I went to her IMDB page and it was like ‘known for Buffy The Vampire Slayer,
the visitor.’ And I was like, okay, well this is her one role. But yeah, I don't
understand why she talks to Faith, but she, of course, tells her the facts that Faith
needs to know, which is that the mayor has perished.
Jenny​: This is so sad! I mean, if I was Faith I would be so sad.
Kristin​: It is sad. It is sad. And then Faith beats her up and takes her clothes. I
would have been more into this if Faith was like, “I don't know, but you want to go
to check out that broom closet?” And then walked out in her clothes. But you know.
Jenny​: Oh, that's another way to do it I guess.
Kristin​: Yeah, but it was the year 2000 and things weren't as easily made gay yet.
[Clears throat]
Jenny​: Sure, I think she’s also just kind of primed for violence right now.


Kristin​: [Laughs] True. True. So…
Jenny​: Oh my gosh!
Kristin​: Are you going to talk about this voiceover before you go to —
Jenny​: Hell yes, I'm going to talk about this voiceover while we're still looking at
Faith —
Kristin​: [Whispers] yeah.
Jenny​: — we hear Buffy’s voiceover, “you know, I never stopped thinking about
you” and we're like, “yeah! Nice! Beautiful!”
[Crowd cheers]
Kristin​: Oh god, it makes me so happy in a way that almost seems unhealthy, but
I'm here for it.
[Crowd laughs]
Jenny​: But unfortunately she's talking to Riley.
Kristin​: Yeah, but is she? Every time she says something to Riley in this episode,
I'm like, but who are you talking to? ‘Cause that happens again later. We'll get
there. Riley loves this fucking bandana so much.
Jenny​: Oh my gosh, as some of you may know, we've begun a new segment,
which is, of course, ‘look at the size of Marc Blucas’ hands on Sarah Michelle
Gellar’s body, oh god, they're huge’ and that carries over nicely to this scarf which
looks like a bandaid on his hand. His huge hands.
[Crowd laughs]
Kristin​: To give him a little bit of context though, this was a stupid bandana. It's
not an actual bandana. You know, it's a lady bandana?
Jenny​: [Laughs] A stupid bandana!. A lady bandana!
Kristin​: It’s a lady bandana!


Jenny​: It's definitely decorative, you don't want to tie it around your head and be
Rambo, right?
Kristin​: You know how they put like — there's ‘razors’ and then it's like ‘razors for
her’ in the 90s. It was like ‘bandanas’ and it was like ‘bandanas by her’ and they
were like a rubber band and I was like, fuck that shit. Yeah.
[Crowd laughs]
Jenny​: Okay.
Kristin​: I can curse. Okay, so then Buffy is like, “I quit the council” and, you know,
is trying to counsel…
[Crowd laughs]
Kristin​: I didn't do that on purpose! Trying to counsel Riley through his confusion.
Yes, Jenny?
Jenny​: No, no please.
Kristin​: And this is sad and maybe this is why I have a bit of a soft spot for Riley
right now is because we just came out of Riley having his entire universe flipped
upside down, which I have a real spot for.
Jenny​: Yeah. [Imitates Riley] “I'm a soldier, take that away, what's left?”
Kristin​: [High-pitched voice] A nice man. I know, I fell for it!
Jenny​: A nice man with huge hands.
Kristin​: [Laughs]
Jenny​: Also, two things. Sorry — if you’re good on the identity crisis?
Kristin​: I’m good, yeah.
Jenny​: Riley's watch — I don't know if you guys have Fossil here? No? Clearly!
Kristin​: All of the American listeners are like, “wow, so most of the episode is
going to be us asking the audience, do you love this here?”
[Crowd laughs]


Jenny​: Riley is definitely wearing a Fossil or a Fossil rip off watch. It is a huge
leather wristband with a little fake — I mean it's probably pretty huge cause it's on
his enormous wrist and hand but it is very distinctly of its era. And furthermore, for
somebody who's like, “I haven't slept in three days. Oh no, Adam. Oh god, he must
be stopped” Buffy sure is hanging out in everybody's bedrooms a lot in this episode.
[Crowd laughs]
Kristin​: Hey, you gotta have time to play, you know?
Jenny​: [Shouts] No! The words out of her mouth were that she had no time to
play.

Kristin​: But — and this brings us to the next moment in this scene where she
straddles Riley and starts kissing him and then searches for a chip in his head. So
she might've had a reason to get him in a sexy place so she could secretly search
for the chip just to make sure.
Jenny​: Or maybe that's her kink.
Kristin​: You know what I thought is that [laughs] — so we've talked about, you
haven't heard the episode yet, but we'll get there. We've talked about the incredible
sex scene between Riley and Buffy, which involves the removal of a boot slowly.
[Crowd laughs]
Kristin​: Oooh yeah. And I thought perhaps maybe the director was like, “alright,
let's try something new. I'm going to tell Sarah to look for a chip in Marc's head
because then it will either be really sexy or it'll be sort of sexy, but it won't matter
‘cause there's other reasons for it”, you know? They struggle a little bit with the
chemistry after we had soul-losing chemistry a couple of seasons ago.
Jenny​: It's really hard to top forbidden love.
Kristin​: So we go back to the hospital for this quick little thing. All the doctors in
Sunnydale look the same. I thought this was The Initiative doctor when it first
rolled up on his face, and I was like, what is going on? And then the suit guy is like,
“how could you possibly have left a person in a coma and this horrible wing of the
hospital?” And then we find out that girl was beat up and then this creepy nurse is
like, “I'm making my call on this one phone placed perfectly so that we don't need
another shot.”


Jenny​: [Imitates nurse] “Good thing I was on shift.”
Kristin​: Yeah, seriously. Faith longingly looks at what once was Sunnydale high
school then stumbles down State Street in a daze.
Jenny​: Yes, yes.
Kristin​: There's this weird little moment that happens in this quick scene where a
dad and his daughter are going to the movies, which I feel is very intentional. She’s
like, “Dad, we're running late” you know, to underline that Faith has lost her dad,
her watcher dad, the mayor.
Jenny​: and then like Spike before her, Faith takes a moment to stare in a
Sunnydale window.
Kristin​: No! She doesn't stare into it yet. That's later.
Jenny​: I’m so sorry.
Kristin​: She just literally can't wait. When Jenny watched the episode, she texted
me like five minutes into watching it and was like, “um, is this not the episode
where she stares in the window?”
Jenny​: No, no, no. The window of Giles’ house. Oh it's almost as though you don't
listen sometimes.
[Crowd laughs]
Kristin​: Oh, I just have more information about another window you’re excited
about.
Jenny​: Yeah, yeah we'll get to the other window. Don't worry about it.
Kristin​: Yes. Faith stares into a window, continue.
Jenny​: Right, right, right. ‘Cause Buffy is in there talking to Giles and the whole
crew.
Kristin​: W find out that admin has to charge.
[Crowd laughs]


Jenny​: The council still calls Giles to — what?
Kristin​: We find out that Adam has to charge.
Jenny​: Adam has to charge?!
Kristin​: Yeah! Riley’s like, “well he probably has to charge” and I died because I've
just imagined Adam being like, “am I a man or a monster?” And then being like,
“one moment please” sitting down and plugging himself into the wall.
[Crowd laughs]
Kristin​: Okay, sorry.
Jenny​: So she is watching them getting the lay of the land. Oh, Buffy has a new
butterscotch boyfriend. Interesting. Oh they're talking about all this stuff. Then they
get the call, the council still has Giles’ phone number and that's where they look for
Buffy. No indication when he picks up the phone whether the person on the other
line is obviously British. But I would assume Giles getting a call from a British
person who then asks for Buffy would be, I don't know, something?
Kristin​: Okay. Cause I was like, why doesn't Giles ask who is calling for Buffy? You
think he just knows that it's the council?
Jenny​: Well, he probably knows other British people, but Buffy doesn’t.
Kristin​: Right, yeah. Maybe he assumed — ‘cause it is weird that he doesn't ask
like, “oh, you're calling this person at my house, who are you?” Also Jenny —
Jenny​: And then Faith’s like “ah, they know about me” and then she disappears
into the darkness.
Kristin​: She also has moment — you were like, “Faith looks in and sees
butterscotch boyfriend and is like blah”, but she looks at and sees butterscotch
boyfriend is hurt about it. She's butthurt, you know?
Jenny​: I don’t think they say butthurt here.
Kristin​: Oh, it's a thing. [Laughs] Also there's this whole moral conversation that
happens, right?


Jenny​: Right. What do we do with Faith if and when we apprehend her? The police
don't know what to do with — she doesn't belong in jail, the council's clearly proved
itself not helpful.
Kristin​: Right, the Scooby gang has their opinions.
Jenny​: And Buffy is, of course, like “she's my responsibility”.
Kristin​: Well, because Buffy has left the council, I think Buffy feels it's her
responsibility to deal with Faith because she is her own boss, you know?
Jenny​: Sure. But she also is completely not equipped —
Kristin​: To handle Faith?
Jenny​: I think so. Well…
[Crowd laughs]
Jenny​: But she's not equipped to rehabilitate Faith or whatever the grand design
is.
Kristin​: Right. But I think she doesn't know, right? Because it's this thing that we
all do as people, I think. We perceive others how we behave and the things we do is
what informs us. And so I think that for Buffy in the moment where she's like,
“maybe she's sorry”, Faith isn’t sorry, right? I mean, whatever. Deep down Faith is
sorry, but that's because I would be sorry. So I want to believe that she's sorry.
Jenny​: I think Faith is sorry deep down, come now.
Kristin​: Well, I mean, I don't think that she's going to pop out of a coma and be
sorry. I think that would be a quick progression. But Buffy I think — no, you
disagree?
Jenny​: I don't know.
Kristin​: Alright, we’ll talk about it another time.
Jenny​: What’s important is that this goes on for like five minutes and then there's
a beautiful pause and then Riley's like, “who’s Faith?”
[Crowd laughs]


Kristin​: Right? Also not to overlook the Scooby's concerns, Willow being like “we
should beat her up” and Xander being like —
Jenny​: [Imitates Xander] “Who is she doing?”
Kristin​: — “who is she doing?” Yes. On brand for everyone. Willow, speaking of
on-brand, is wearing a shirt where three people are in bed on her shirt, I think? I
don't know what's happening there. They have this little conversation back and
forth about Riley and like, “what did you tell him?” “I told him faith was my wacky
cousin. I didn't tell him about all that sex we had” and wow. Then Buffy is like, “if I
were Faith” step, step, step... And then Faith is like, “you’re not me” and we all
scream!
[Crowd laughs]
Kristin​: And Dave, will you play the Faith jingle again?
[FAITH jingle plays]
She's from Boston, keeps it spotting, doesn't need any frills
Seems like she's the only one who's taking care of herself
Don't call her loser, she's a bruiser with the power and skill
But the demons deep inside her are the hardest to kill
Faith!
[Crowd cheers and applauds]
Jenny​: There she is again.
Kristin​: [Imitates Faith] “Check you out, B. Big girl on campus is really working for
you”. That's not part of my erotic novel, but I do have one.
[Crowd woops]
Kristin​: And I want to say — did somebody boo or did you just say, “ooh”? I was
like, wow, a opposition to the erotic novels.
[Crowd laughs]
Kristin​: You all cheered when the erotic novel happened while you were watching
the episode. And I was so proud that we all share the same feelings. My erotic
novel is, “so let's have another go at it. See who lands on top.”


[Crowd cheers and applauds]
Kristin​: Thank you. Thank you so much. It takes a lot of creative skill and natural
talent to write these.
Jenny​: My erotic novel for this episode is still, “are you ever going to take this
thing out?”
[Crowd laughs]
Kristin​: It's just — it's a very particular kind of sexy.
Jenny​: It writes itself, really.
[Crowd laughs]
Jenny​: Wow, so they just exchange all of this very charged banter. Right, right?
Kristin​: Also Faith has a line that I love. Well, it's kind of a combo line where
Buffy’s like, “Faith, these are innocent people” and she's like, “no such animal” and
I'm like, yeah, say it again!
[Crowd laughs]
Kristin​: Because she's sexy, but also because she's right, there is no such animal
as an innocent human, none of us are innocent. Bringing the deep thoughts. Well,
maybe the babies are innocent.
Jenny​: Pippa — innocent.
Kristin​: Pippa, for those of you listening, is an adorable baby who is at this
convention and has dressed up as Buffy.
Jenny​: I've held her many times.
Kristin​: As have I. We love Pippa. Anyhow, we get back —
Jenny​: It's wild how heavily Faith is harping — t's not wild, we know, but
objectively it's a little wild how hard she's harping on the fact that like, “oh, you
stabbed me to save your boyfriend, but you're not even dating him anymore. You
jumped on the first college beef stick you could find.”


Kristin​: Yup.
[Crowd cheers]
Kristin​: Jenny has stood up.
Jenny​: [Shouts] Beef stick! She called Riley a beef stick! Okay.
[Crowd laughs]
Kristin​: Jenny has sat down.
[Crowd laughs]
Jenny​: Thank you. I wonder why she would be harping so much on who Buffy is
dating and was dating and is dating now.
Kristin​: Yeah, because that's what gal pals do. They’re just pal’ing around thinking
about each other's boyfriends all the time.
Jenny​: Sure, sure.
Kristin​: Also, Jenny, you know you had that shirt that said ‘I love hunks’?
Jenny​: Yes.
Kristin​: I would like to make you one that says ‘I love college beef sticks’.
[Crowd laughs]
Jenny​: That may be a bridge too far. It's embarrassing enough to where ‘I love
hunks’ out of context.
[Crowd laughs]
Kristin​: So then we get this really sexy fight.
Jenny​: Fight! Fight! Fight! Fight! Fight!
Kristin​: Yeah. And they're fighting, Willow tries to get the backpack to Faith’s head
before the fight begins. And my favorite part about that is when Faith calls her
“red”.


Jenny​: Oh yeah, hot.
Kristin​: Yeah, it's pretty hot. There's two — this is a really small note, but if you go
back and you watch the episode, maybe you already noticed it, but I get a real kick
out of the two college dudes who are standing on the staircase behind their fight.
They're like, “whoa, this is some serious fighting happening.” [Laughs]
[Crowd laughs]
Kristin​: Yeah. And then the cops are there and Faith is like, “you took my life, B,
payback's a bitch.” And then she throws a cop and then she throws another cop and
then she jumps over the fence.
Jenny​: But also you left out the fact that Faith is like, “payback's a bitch” and
Willow's like, “look who's talking.”
[Crowd laughs and applauds]
Kristin​: Willow! Yeah.
Jenny​: Mwah!
Kristin​: Speaking of Willow, these witches, [sings] these fucking witches you said
— okay, yeah go ahead. Cheer ‘em, cheer ‘em!
[Crowd cheers and applauds]
Kristin​: Hey Jenny, you know who needs a fucking jingle? Willow and Tara. Willow
and Tara, Willow and Tara, Willow and Tara! Yeah, yeah, yeah!
Jenny​: Oh god, okay, alright, I'll do it!
Kristin​: [Imitates Tara] “You said recon like you're a cool monster fighter” says
Tara to Willow, ahhh! And then it gets so sexy.
Jenny​: [Sarcastically] Oh yeah, so sexy when Tara is like, “this is how people
punch” but she looks like a small dog that's been dropped in water, you know?
[Crowd laughs]
Kristin​: [Laughs] For those of you listening at home, Jenny and I just mimicked
Tara, but Jenny did it like a Labrador retriever doing the dog paddle, I think.


Jenny​: Yeah, swimming!
Kristin​: Willow gets to call Faith a “cleavagey slut bomb” which normally we'd be —
well maybe you have thoughts on it — normally I feel I'd be like, Willow, don't slut
shame, but I'm like, yeah, Willow! Call her a cleavagey slut bomb! I'm just — listen,
sometimes your emotions get the best of you, you know? And then — somebody,
yesterday we were signing things and we were talking about ‘five-by-five’ with
somebody and they were like, “I just learned what that meant and I feel so
embarrassed that I did not know” and I said don't feel embarrassed because in the
very episode we are discussing tomorrow we find out that in the universe they don't
know what the hell Faith is talking about. Willow says — you know, that's the thing,
no-one knows what five-by-five means. Anyhow. Shall we go to an alley?
Jenny​: Oh my god.
Kristin​: Ooh, this is the part where we get to talk about a scene that has a
character who's also in the building with us.
Jenny​: Argh!
[Crowd cheers]
Jenny​: But before he emerges from the shadows, Xander is having a very
important monologue that Giles is listening to in rapt attention. [Imitates Xander]
“If Faith finds out Mr Xander Harris is in town, odds are she goes tighter than cat
gut”.
Both​: What?!
[Crowd laughs]
Kristin​: What?! I didn’t even hear that line, I'm taking it in for the first time.
Jenny​: Yeah, it's a lot, it's a lot. “Tighter than cat gut”. It's unclear if that's a good
thing, a bad thing, a sexy thing an unsexy thing. Unknown!
Kristin​: Also Giles rolling his eyes at Xander is a mood. Like I want to put it in a
bottle and sell it as perfume or something, you know?
Jenny​: Yeah, yeah. Also Xander can't be held responsible for the effect he has on
women.
[Crowd laughs]


Jenny​: Accurate! Accurate in a variety of ways. There's a whole spectrum from
Speedo to slut shaming, a Xander Harris story.
[Kristin and crowd laughs and applauds]
Kristin​: So then a certain peroxide vampire lights his cigarette in the dark of an
alley, to which I say, Dave, will you play the Spike jingle please?
[SPIKE jingle plays]
Spike! I love you
Spike! So dreamy
Spike! Your trench coat
Spike! I love you
Spike! Your black nails
Spike! Peroxide
[Crowd cheers and applauds]
Jenny​: Ta da!
Kristin​: Yeah! [Laughs] Oh yes. And this is amazing, this is the first time — maybe
it's not the first time, but to me it seems like the first time that we have seen Spike
act, right? Spike is pretending, which is a thing we've seen Angel do. And Angel
believes he is an incredible —
Jenny​: Thespian Angel.
Kristin​: Yes. Thespian Angel is a whole thing. And Spike is like, “oh, somebody’s
after you? Tell me about it.” And they're like, “oh yeah, it's this girl and her name's
Faith and she's yay tall” and then of course he's like, “I’m gonna go find her and
fucking show her where you are. You fucking idiots!” He has a point! What is
happening to them? I know that they​ ​—
Jenny​: No there's mixed messages going on, on a rolling basis.
Kristin​: I agree with you, there are, and I also agree that Spike fucking loves the
Scoobies and loves everybody and has a tender heart and I love him. Okay. But
they are fighting evil. So I just feel like you need to keep a little bit more of a dist
— you know, a little bit more of your guard up than they are. Although they realize
that when Xander, of course, says “we’re dumb”.
[Both laugh]


Kristin​: And then flap flap flap of a chopper, that would've been a great time for
another airplane from Heathrow to go by.
Jenny​: Sure, sure, sure, sure, sure.
Kristin​: And now we get to the window I thought you were talking about before
Jenny.
Jenny​: Oh god! Yes. Back on State Street Faith is staring longingly
—
Kristin​: That’s Faith’s memoir title.
Jenny​: Back on State Street? [Laughs] Back on State Street Faith is staring
longingly into the window of the sporting goods store where she and Buffy once did
some very homoerotic crime together.
[Crowd laughs]
Kristin​: Yeah. She was like, “Want. Take. Have.” And then she was like, “are you
ever going to take this thing out?”
Jenny​: [Laughs]
[Crowd laughs]
Jenny​: She's also staring at this collection of Gustafson precision blades.
Kristin​: Ooh, you said Gustafson so nicely.
Jenny​: Thank you. I don't know if that's correct but, hey. But they're all so much
smaller than Faith's knife.
Kristin​: Yeah. I mean Faith definitely has the best knife, but also where did she
get her clothes? Like what girl did those clothes come from?
Jenny​: Oh, what — is she wearing leather pants? Maybe she had a stockpile
somewhere.
Kristin​: just hidden in under a bridge in Sunnydale?
Jenny​: Or the mayor had a storage unit or something.


Kristin​: Which, listen, I'm skipping ahead ‘cause I have shit to talk about before —
well, you know, we'll just get there. The fucking demon comes and Faith kills him,
which is a bummer.
Jenny​: This is classic Faith.
Kristin​: Classic Faith. But he’s just doing his job.
Jenny​: Literally killing the messenger.
Kristin​: [Laughs] And then the messenger is like, “yo, here” — well the
messenger's dead, but in his dying — I believe he would say, “here's this tape that
the mayor made for you” and then she climbs a fucking ladder to a VCR room.
[Crowd laughs]
Kristin​: What?!
Jenny​: She also — her feet just manage to escape the rolling beam of the police
officer’s flashlights. Police officers are always shining high powered flashlights that
are handheld, down alleys?! I don’t know.
Kristin​: It’s Sunnydale. In Sunnydale they're always watching out for demons. So
they have different kinds of tricks. They’re also doing a horrible job. So then in the
— I label all of the rooms where the things happen and this is labeled in quotes,
‘VHS room’. The mayor!
Jenny​: Dad!
Kristin​: They mayor is so great. Who here loves the fucking mayor?
[Crowd cheers and applauds]
Kristin​: I mean, I know you all do.
Jenny​: Sure, there’s things not to love about the mayor, but there's so much to
love about the mayor.
Kristin​: No but I mean as a villain. Wow. It's just such a great villain.
Jenny​: So great.


Kristin​: The mayor is like, “you can't live without me” which he means eternally,
but this is kind of a rough message. Like dad?!
Jenny​: I find it — I thought it was very real, very paternalistic, literally like — I
mean, I think, I can't say — I mean people that you love that are closer to you
specifically, think about your parents. I'm so sorry to do this to you and everyone,
but think about your parents dying, right? That's the thing that really, I think, seels
more than anything else the reality of your mortality, right? A generational shift. So
he's giving her these real deep dark messages.
Kristin​: But he says there's no place in the world for her.
Jenny​: Well, that's his view, right? Because they had such a tight bond, that was
her family the last time she was awake.
Kristin​: But don't you think that if my dad made me a video to watch after he died,
he wouldn't be like, “well, and now there's nothing left for you”. Come on, man!
[Crowd laughs]
Kristin​: I mean I get part of it. And I think part of it is uplifting for Faith. You
know, to be like, “oh, we loved each other and we had something and he gets it.”
But I just feel like he could have given her a little bit more than the fidget spinner is
all I'm saying.
[Crowd laughs]
Kristin​: That's what I call the thing. It’s a fidget spinner!
Jenny​: Some hope and a fidget spinner?
Kristin​: Yeah. So be careful with your fidget spinners. You might just — who knows
what. Anyway, so moving along from the VHS room, I've written down from my —
this isn't this watch, but the watch before, “she's a very dangerous woman” and
then there's a little arrow and it says, “my sexuality is Buffy saying this about
Faith.”
[Crowd laughs]
Kristin​: So I guess I had a real moment with it up in my hotel room when I was
like, “she's a very dangerous woman”, say it again! And then my buzz was
immediately killed when I found out that Riley lines up his tiny basketballs in a line
on his desk.


[Crowd laughs]
Jenny​: [Laughs] Yeah, but then what about when Riley was like, “I've never seen
anybody get under your skin this way before”.
Both​: [Imitate Riley] “What did she do to you, exactly?”
Jenny​: “Tell me in detail, very slowly.”
Kristin​: “Yes, point by point” and Buffy’s like, “what?! Nothing. It's a long story.”
How long?! you know what I mean? [Clears throat] Okay. My next note is ‘knocky
knocky Joyce’ Really?
Jenny​: ‘Knocky knocky’?
Kristin​: Yeah.
Jenny​: Upon the door?
Kristin​: Yeah. Knocky knocky upon the door. Knocky Knocky.
Jenny​: Aw, probably the last time that Faith knocked on the door and Joyce
answered it was Christmas in Amends.
Kristin​: I know!
Jenny​: Oh my god. [Imitates Faith] “Here are some gifts, they're crappy.”
Kristin​: Also, they spent Christmas night together, remember?
Jenny​: And now she's just going to punch her in the face.
Kristin​: I just feel like they had something, you know? They still kind of do have
something.
Jenny​: There’s something here, for sure.
Kristin​: Yeah, there definitely is. [Imitates Faith] “Hi Joyce”, she punches her in
the face, then she's trying on her lipstick and she's like “Burgundy Skyline, Harlot,
way to go, Joyce!” And Joyce is like, “yeah, I bought it when I started book club. I
don't know.”


[Crowd laughs]
Jenny​: [Imitates Joyce] “I don't know what got into me.”
Kristin​: [Laughs] Faith gives the mirror a nice kiss in her Harlot lipstick. Where is
that mirror from the set is what I say.
Jenny​: Indeed.
Kristin​: And Joyce is fucking — we haven't seen Joyce — am I right or am I right?
— not enough Joyce up to this point in Season 4.
Jenny​: Not enough Joyce. I think at this point, when we talked to her, I think she
told us that she was living in Italy this year, I think, which is why she's not around
so much.
Kristin​: Alright, so Joyce was like — she's having a good time in Italy.
Jenny​: Having a blast in Italy.
Kristin​: With her art museum, she had big business.
Jenny​: No, no, no, no, no —
Kristin​: I know, I know, I understand the difference between the actor and their
character.
Jenny​: Okay, okay, okay.
Kristin​: Sort of. [Laughs]
[Crowd laughs]
Kristin​: But yeah, I just love her. She holds her fucking own in this whole scene,
right? Faith is like, “how do I look?” And Joyce's like, “psychotic”.
Jenny​: Yeah, she's so tough!
Kristin​: Yeah. Which Faith kind of is into, she's like, “alright, I was going for this,
but I'll take psychotic”. And then the line, “actually I was thinking my daughter is
going to kill you soon”. Like fuck yeah, Joyce! Joyce has really accepted her slayer
daughter, you know?


Jenny​: So beautiful.
Kristin​: Sometimes it takes 4 Seasons for a mom to get it and she's there. She
knows what's up.
Jenny​: Faith as this really — I mean she's peeling back more and more layers to
this thing that she's feeling about Buffy. You think you're part of something and
then you get dumped and she has this whole “animals in the tarpits sinking slowly”
like, jeez Faith, get a Live Journal.
[Crowd laughs]
Kristin​: [Laughs] Oh my god. Someone please make a Live Journal for Faith.
Probably that exists, right? [Imitates Faith] “Too busy with her new boy toy to give
a single thought to people who matter”. Before we get to the beautiful piece of this
episode, I just want to ask one question, which is why are letters being sent three
miles to — it just seems —
Jenny​: You don't update your mailing address when you go to college three miles
down the road.
Kristin​: I just find —
Jenny​: What kind of mail you think Buffy is getting it? You know what I mean? You
think she's getting any time sensitive or is it like —
Kristin​: Yeah, from the council they're like, “ah, this is not okay. Third warning,
not allowed to go rogue!” [Laughs] But yeah, I just thought this was a funny little
twist. Now the window may break and in will come Buffy.
Jenny​: Hooray!
Kristin​: This is one of my favorite — at least to date— Buffy/Joyce moments.
[Imitates] “Hi mom”, you know? Just Like, “hi Buffy” “hi mom”. It's just — I don't
know, I feel like maybe Buffy hasn't been visiting very much, but they love each
other so much. They’re a team, they've got each other's backs. Remember when
they sat on the couch in their white scrunchie socks and had a birthday moment?
Remember?
Jenny​: It was very sad.
Kristin​: It was, but it's just really sweet and I love it. The end.


Jenny​: Beautiful.
Kristin​: That was a novel that was not erotic. That was my first sentimental novel.
[Crowd laughs]
Jenny​: Beautiful. So nice.
Kristin​: Okay.
Jenny​: So they fight and they fight and they fight and they fight and they fight and
they're taking moments to have some banter. [Imitates Buffy] “oh god, you just
can't get off the boyfriend thing. Oh, butterscotch, meh”. Faith is like, “maybe I'd
like to sample some butterscotch” and Buffy is like, “he's not big on sleaze” and
Faith is like, “he's probably never tried it”, which is such a great way to come back
to that. She's like —
Kristin​: [Laughs] Yeah, one of my main notes for this scene is ‘breaking the house,
yeah, yeah, yeah! Because they break the whole house after this conversation.
There's so many things that happen. There's the slide across the whole table. Then
Faith takes the whole silverware drawer out and has the courtesy to empty it before
throwing it —
[Crowd laughs]
Jenny​: So nice!
Kristin​: — which I thought was an interesting thing.
Jenny​: And then closes a glass door on Buffy as she's passing through, of course.
The contractors in Sunnydale — that's the industry you want to get into.
Kristin​: Right? Do you think Joyce took out extra insurance after she found out
that Buffy was the slayer?
Jenny​: God I hope so.
Kristin​: She's like, “I'm upping my coverage” and they're like, “any life changes
that we need to know about?” And she's like, “no, no” —
Jenny​: [Imitates Joyce] “My daughter's the slayer”.
Kristin​: No, no, definitely insurance fraud is happening. [Laughs]


Jenny​: [Laughs]. Buffy is like, “maybe we forgot about you ‘cause we wanted to”.
That sounds like ‘the lady doth protest too much’ me thinks.
Kristin​: It does, it's like what you say to somebody who you love and you want to
hurt in that moment, I think. It sounds like what you say to a gal pal who broke
your heart and this is what you do to a gal pal who knifed you in the gut, you
know?
Jenny​: You know what else you do to them?
Kristin​: What do you do? Put a fidget spinner on them?
Jenny​: You spin their fidget, if you possibly can.
Kristin​: Yeah!
[Crowd laughs]
Kristin​: You spin their fidget.
[Crowd laughs]
Kristin​: Sometimes my only role is to repeat what you said, to make sure that
everyone else heard it, you know? Everyone now heard the joke. Faith is like “the
cops” and my question here is, is she panicked? Is she afraid of the cops? Is that
what —
Jenny​: No, she wants to spin the fidget just in time.
Kristin​: Just in time. That's my thing. She's like, “now's the time”.
Jenny​: So that Buffy will be in Faith's body, but unconscious as the cops arrive.
Kristin​: If only listeners at home could see Jenny's shit eating grin.
[Crowd laughs]
Jenny​: How dare you?
Kristin​: Yeah, my note is ‘fidget spinner activate’.


Jenny​: Big face punch, unconscious, after the magical flooshes, and then Joyce is
like, “Buffy, are you okay?” And Buffy is like, “five-by-five” and we're all like…
Both​: Whaaat?!
[Crowd laughs]
Kristin​: Also, there's a tiny little moment where Giles walks in and there are three
men who say “hello Rupert”.
Jenny​: They say Ripper, actually.
Kristin​: They say Ripper?!
Jenny​: That's right.
[Someone in the crowd interjects and says “Rupert”]
Kristin​: Rupert, ha!
Jenny​: We'll see about that.
Kristin​: Oh wow. Jenny just challenged you all.
Jenny​: No, I guess I'm clearly outnumbered, but I heard what I heard.
Kristin​: Okay, well we can't talk about — okay.
Jenny​: Those guys are wearing a lot of leather jackets and they seem very dark
ops, I feel like they'd be calling him Ripper, but that’s just me! But also I have
stupid American ears, so who knows what I heard?
[Crowd laughs]
Kristin​: [Laughs] So, right.
Jenny​: Has he magical time come for the most blessed my blessing portion of the
episode?
Kristin​: I believe it has, Jenny. I do want to say though, before we go to the
magical time in this episode, known as Sexual Tension Awards.
[Crowd woops]


Kristin​: Don't you worry, we'll get there. I do want to take a moment to first of all
say we have had so much fun at The Vampire Ball!
[Crowd cheers and applauds]
Jenny​: Mmhmm!
Kristin​: And in your wonderful, wonderful city. I'm sure it's not all of your city, but
a lot of you, it's your city and your country and it's just been very wonderful to us.
We've had a great time. I've had a lot of questions.
Jenny​: Oh yes, what are they?
Kristin​: I just want to talk about them for a second. Let's see where they are in my
notes. Okay, my London list, I'm going to save the first one for last because we got
the answer. And Jenny, do you remember it? Cause you have to explain it to them.
Okay, so my London list is, ‘why are the streets so small?’ Listen, in America they
measured the car and they were like, “okay, we'll give you like a foot on either side,
maybe two —
Jenny​: “‘Cause you're all a mess, you're going to need the space.”
Kristin​: Here, They were like, “you guys got this. Car is 16 feet, roads 16 feet”.
Every time we're in a car, I'm like, “we might not — we will, we will”. Outlets, why?
I don't — and this isn't like you should have my outlets thing — I just don't
understand how we got to the point in our world where we all have different
outlets. Why didn't anyone talk to each other?
Jenny​: Well, because you couldn't plug in the cordless phone while electricity was
being harnessed.
Kristin​: They were like, “we don’t have a plug!”
Jenny​: They couldn’t call across the pond and ask “how many prongs? What
shape? How far apart?”
Kristin​: Yeah, yeah. So I don't know — a question and I'm sure either someone
will tell us or you can write in bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com and let me
know. I also want to let you know I ate mushy peas —
[Crowd woops]


Kristin​: — and I liked them. I was so excited. I ordered it and I didn't realize it and
I was with my friend Megan who lives here and I got fish and chips. I was being
very, you know, local flavor [laughs]. And it came with tartar sauce and then there
was this little thing of green. And I was like, “what is that?” And she's like, “oh,
that's mushy peas” and I was like, “shut up!” She had no idea why I was so excited
about mushy peas. I was like, “Giles ate them” And she's like, “who's Giles?!”
[Crowd laughs]
Kristin​: Doors. Where are they and why are there so many? I've just had a difficult
time getting into buildings here ‘cause there's so many doors and none of them are
ope. They don't open, you know? And also 22 degrees celsius is 71 degrees
fahrenheit, that was just a little math I did. I was proud of it. And my last question
was, why do we drive on opposite sides of the street? And someone told us this and
I retain information, but I'm not as smart as Jenny who retains it and understands
it. So she'll explain to you if you don't know.
Jenny​: You know already.
Kristin​: No, they don't all know.
Jenny​: Well it has to do with swords, doesn't it? You want to approach on your
sword hand side? And then the whole deal was that Napoleon was left-handed and
so France —
Kristin​: You’re doing great so far.
Jenny​: Thank you. So France, of course, did it on the other side, ‘cause when
you're — I dunno, what you would call Napoleon? An emperor. That's one way to
say it, I guess. I was gonna say like overlord or something.
[Crowd laughs]
Jenny​: It's all very confusing for us. We have a different system.
Kristin​: Yeah. Wow. Nice one, Jenny, good dig. [Laughs]
Jenny​: Thank you. [Laughs] So, he had everything swapped over to the other side
and America sided with the French in some important thing —
Kristin​: Wow, you’re doing exactly what I would have done. [Laughs]
Jenny​: — perhaps the building of roads, perhaps not. And here we are!


Kristin​: And now you drive on the other side of the street.
Jenny​: We’re really trying to not feel like we're about to crash every time we get in
a vehicle.
Kristin​: Now that we've told you that sexy story about swords, Dave, will you
kindly play the jingle that says Sexual Tension Award?
[SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays]
Sexual tension award!
[Crowd cheers and applauds]
Jenny​: Yes, so this is the part of the podcast where we traditionally list off four
potential pairings for you to vote on who had the most tense sexual activity or lack
thereof, or just, you know, impending [makes suggestive noise]
Kristin​: [Laughs] Sexual Attention Award: for best impending [makes suggestive
noise].
Jenny​: Yeah. You get it. So, okay. So usually it'll be like, “oh, Band Candy, Giles
and Joyce” whatever, you know, and then you can vote on our Twitter. We'll post a
poll, we're @bufferingcast and you can vote in this beautiful democracy that we've
created around theoretical sexual tension and real sexual tension in every episode
of the show. So today's nominees have a very specific thing in common.
Kristin​: Why don't we stagger them?
Jenny​: Yes, lets. [Clears throat] Okay. So first nominee for this episode, Sexual
Tension Award pairing is Buffy and Faith, of course.
[Crowd cheers]
Jenny​: Well, how could it not be?
Kristin​: The second nominee for the Sexual Tension Award is Buffy and Faith.
[Crowd laughs, cheers and applauds]
Jenny​: Nice. Really nice. Okay. And then who do we have third? Oh yes, of course,
the third nominee is Buffy and Faith!


[Crowd laughs, cheers and applauds]
Kristin​: And just to make sure that this is fair, the fourth nominee is Buffy and
Faith.
[Crowd laughs, cheers and applauds]
Kristin​: Jenny has added a little flavor to these. Would you like to discuss some of
the nuance that goes into each category?
Jenny​: Sure. The first nominee pairing is nominated specifically for, “are you ever
going to take this thing out?”
[Crowd laughs]
Kristin​: Yeah. The second is for “everything is all wet”.
Jenny​: Sure, sure. The third pairing was, of course, for the college beef stick
jealousy incident.
Kristin​: And the fourth one is the sporting goods nostalgia. You know that old
“want. Take. Have”.
Jenny​: Yes, yes, yes. So please, please cast your vote. We'll be posting the poll
online just after this episode goes up. Make your voice heard. It's very important.
This is going to be a tight race. I know. But we'll just see who lands on top.
[Crowd cheers]
Kristin​: Yeah, we'll get their addresses in the meanwhile. Oh, Jenny! [Laughs]
wow. Thank you all so much for being here
Jenny​: Please, thank you.
Kristin​: — as part of this joyous occasion. We have again, had the best time. We
love you. And I think that's all we need to say. Do we need to say anything?
Jenny​: Well traditionally at the end of the episode we say “until next time” and
then we howl. Would you be willing to howl with us?
[Crowd cheers]


Kristin​: I also want to let you all know that if you're here in London with us, we
have ‘smash the demon lizard patriarchy’ shirts that are still available down in the
autograph room. So they'll be down there after this. And also when we're doing
some signings at four o'clock and now —
Jenny​: Beautiful, beautiful. And now ‘til next time.
All​: Awoooo!
Jenny​: Really nice! Thanks so much!
[Crowd cheers and applauds]
[Jenny performing “This Year’s Girl” off the album “Songs from Season Four”
by Buffering the Vampire Slayer]

I didn’t think we’d meet again
They all said you wouldn’t wake but still I held my breath
Maybe we gave each other wounds that couldn’t mend
But I always hoped we’d meet again
It’s like oh, no one else could ever really know me
Oh, in the way that only you could know me
Oh, and it doesn’t have to be the way it seems
When you see me in your dreams
I didn’t think we’d end up here
Reunited but still pulled apart by hate and fear
If I’m honest, I’d rather burn than disappear
But I never thought we’d end up here
It’s like oh, somehow I knew this day was always comin
Oh the endless weight of always fighting something
Oh, it doesn’t have to be as hurtful as it seems


I’m not your enemy
My girlfriend’s back
My girlfriend’s back
My girlfriend’s back
And we’re gonna be in trouble
Yeah we’re gonna be in trouble
You left your world, came back to mine
But part of me was on the lookout this whole time

I guess it’s true, no one else could ever really know me
Ooh, in the way that only you could know me
Ooh, bad girls do the things they have to to survive
And I’m feelin… FIVE … BY … FIVE!

