Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 3.15: Consequences
Jenny: ​Hey, hey, hey, hey, hello! Hello!
Kristin: ​Hello!
Jenny: ​It’s me Jenny, and also Kristin.
Kristin: ​It is me. It’s true, it’s a true fact, my name is Kristin and I am here.
Jenny: ​Between you and me, the episode hasn’t actually started yet, this is just
the intro. Welcome to it.
Kristin: ​It is! We want to give a reminder to you all that every month we
hand-write five lyric sheets and we donate the proceeds from those lyrics sheets to
an organization. This month that organization is Time’s Up. Time’s Up is a unified
call for change from women in entertainment for women everywhere. We normally
do five lyric sheets but we are adding another five this month.
We sold through the first five, and obviously all of the organizations that we raise
funds for are very important, but to honor Eliza Dushku for coming forward with a
story that had to take so much courage last week, we wanted to add five,
specifically to be able to donate in her name. Many of you, most of you probably
read Eliza’s story. It was horrifying, and heart-wrenching, and we just wanna say
we stand in solidarity with her and with so many of the women who are coming
forward with their stories.
We want all of you to know as well that this conversation isn’t gonna end with us
doing ten lyric sheets. Jenny and I are in continued conversation and we are happy
to hear from all of you, because we wanna keep giving back to this cause
specifically, we wanna keep putting our work, our energy, our efforts towards lifting
up the many survivors of sexual assault, abuse, and harassment.
You can find out more about our lyric sheets over at
bufferingthevampireslayer.com/greatergood, there’s also a link right at the top bar.
If you just go to the website you’ll see that month’s organization, you can click on
that and it will take you there as well. Again, we are adding another five, and you’ll
be hearing from us in the coming weeks about other ways that we’re brainstorming
now to give back even more.
Jenny: ​Yes, thank you to those of you who have already ordered a lyric sheet,
specifically for this month, supporting this work, we really appreciate it. Now


meanwhile, across the Internet, I wanna tell you that we have a Buffy Watch
coming up on Patreon in February. We have not selected the episode yet, but
Kristin, wily Kristin, has put up a poll on Patreon.
So if you’re already a patron, you can vote now on what episode we’re all gonna
watch together. And if you’re not a patron yet, you can go on
bufferingthevampireslayer.com and click on Patreon, and you can learn all about
memberships, subscriptions, support, a beautiful community, and also watching
Buffy with us periodically. Cool.
Kristin: ​Yes, now, hopefully you’re not a person who skips ahead during these
announcements because ooh boy, do we have a big one coming around the bend.
First though, let me remind you that all of our merchandise is back in stock, except
for one thing: the Randy for Giles pin.
Eluding us, the pins were shipped to Australia— it’s been a whole situation! But
everything else is in the store, and one day we will have Randy for Giles pins back
in stock as well. You can find all that of course on our website,
bufferingthevampireslayer.com, just click on shop.
Jenny: ​Now what’s that enormous announcement, Kristin?
Kristin: ​Well Jenny, I’m so glad you asked. See, we are rounding the bend here in
the universe of Sunnydale to a very important time in a young person’s life,
whether you’re skipping it or you’re going to it—
Jenny: ​Ha!
Kristin: ​—it has meaning, and it has impact, and it is the prom.
Jenny: ​The prom, you say?
Kristin: ​The prom, I say.
Jenny: ​What does it have to do with me?!
Kristin: ​[laughs] Well, if you live in Los Angeles or you have a lot of frequent flier
miles, you might be excited to learn that Jenny and I are hosting a Buffy the
Vampire Slayer prom at the Ace Hotel in Los Angeles on March 10th, 2018.
Jenny: ​I’m just hearing about this for the first time right now, but I can tell you
definitively that there will be dancing, there will be music, there will be swag bags,


there will be a photobooth, there will be a costume contest, it will be, as the young
people say— if Gaby Dunn were here she would say “it will be lit.”
Kristin: ​[laughing] Wow, Jenny! Well, I mean, you’re right. It will. And Gaby Dunn
I hope will be there, and will be saying “you know what, Jenny? This is lit.”
Jenny:​ “Jenny, you were right all along, this prom is lit.”
Kristin: ​Now, you are probably— already you’ve turned off the podcast ‘cause
you’re running to just google “Buffy prom tickets how do I get them.” They are not
for sale yet, this is your heads-up, and here’s what we’re gonna do: we’re releasing
all the tickets next week, it’s not a large space, so space is limited, please be
advised.
If you go to bufferingthevampireslayer.com/prom you will find out all of the
information, the start time, the ticket price, the whole shebang. And you will also
see a link to sign up for our mailing list, our brand new mailing list, and what are
we gonna do is we’re gonna send an email to everyone on that mailing list 24 hours
before we release those tickets, so you get the heads-up and you’re ready to roll.
So, again, that’s bufferingthevampireslayer.com/prom, and you will find all of the
things you need to find. Oh my gosh, Jenny.
Jenny: ​I’m LOSING it. What am I gonna wear?
Kristin: ​You’re gonna play some live music, aren’t you?
Jenny: ​I am gonna play a little bit of live music.
Kristin: ​You’re gonna play some 90’s songs, too, aren’t you?
Jenny: ​Yeah, I’ll play a couple 90’s songs.
Kristin: ​Great, great, great, great.
Jenny: ​But mostly I’ll be busy dancing.
Kristin: ​Yes, you will. And we will be starting now trying to figure out what are we
gonna wear—
Jenny: ​[singing] Yes!
Kristin: ​—to the prom, so many choices for us.


Jenny: ​I’ve never been to a prom before.
Kristin: ​Wow, your first prom is a Buffy prom!
Jenny: ​My first prom!
Kristin: ​Oh my God! [sighs]
Jenny: ​Okay.
Kristin: ​Anyhow, a couple other little things, one, we heard from Jack Plotnick last
week, Deputy Mayor Allan Finch, and we’re gonna hear just a little snippet from
Jack at the beginning of this episode, which is exciting. Two, next week is an off
week for us, so if you are a patron you get a mailbag episode next week, but if
you’re not you must bide your time until the 31st when we come back with
Doppelgangland.
Jenny: ​[screaming] Doppelgangland!
Kristin: ​Holy shit.
[Theme song plays]
Jenny: ​Hello! And welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast where we
are watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, one at a
time.
Kristin: ​Spoiler free.
Jenny: ​My name is Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: ​And I am Kristin Russo, and this week we’re talking about Season 3
episode 15, Consequences. Stay tuned at the end of this podcast every week for an
original song written by us recapping the Buffy episode we are discussing.
Jenny: ​“Consequences” was written by Marti Noxon—
Kristin: ​Heoooh!
Jenny: ​—and directed by Michael Gershman, it originally aired on February 16th,
1999. Just two days after Buffy and Faith observed Valentine’s day.


Kristin: ​[laughs] You mean Galpalentine’s day?
Jenny: ​Yeah, that’s what I meant.
Kristin: ​This is the one where a homicide detective—you’re gonna love this.
Jenny: ​[laughs] Am I?
Kristin: ​This is the one where, according to IMDB, a homicide detective closes in on
Buffy and Faith as he investigates the deputy mayor’s death. What?!
Jenny: ​WHAT? [laughter] Wow, any excuse to center the guy with the widest tie.
Kristin: ​You think the guy that played the detective wrote the description?
Jenny: ​[laughing] Yes!
Kristin: ​This is the one about the detective who is trying to crack the case! I’m like
no, dude, you had a scene.
Jenny: ​No, no, no, no, no! No.
Kristin: ​It made me laugh though, I think it’s a little bit off the mark, but…
Jenny: ​This is the one where A LOT. This is the one where oh, boy.
Kristin: ​Yeah. Season Faith, Episode Chains. Am I right?
Jenny: ​Oh my goodness. Uhm, you are correct at least in part.
Kristin: ​It’s hard to do this episode, isn’t it Jenny? Because we just did “Bad Girls”
and—
Jenny: ​Things are different now. Within the first few moments of this episode, I
became certain, beyond the shadow of a doubt, that Faith and Buffy would not be
sexy dancing at the Bronze in the next 45 minutes of my viewing.
Kristin: ​[laughs] Maybe like ten minutes into the episode I had this thought that
was like “man ​Bad Girls​ is like when you first start dating your girlfriend and then
Consequences ​is like—
Jenny: ​When you break up?


Kristin: ​No, it’s like when you’ve been— well, I mean, I guess when you break up,
but more like the way that Faith talks to Buffy in “Bad Girls” is like “oh man, I have
so many feelings, and they’re so exciting, oh man,” and then in ​Consequences s
​ he
may as well have stubble on herself, like a beard that she has not shaved. She is
tired and worn out, they’ve been married for 20 years, and she’s like “girl! Leave it
alone” [both laugh] So we’ve come a far way with our love birds.
Jenny: ​Oh, yes, long have they travelled, and listen, that dunking in this opening
dream scene—
Kristin: ​Wait, wait, wait, before we dive— before we get into the specifics of the
episode, I just wanna take a moment because Jenny and I have been watching on
Hulu, but we recently brought the DVD player upstairs, and I said “why aren’t we
watching the DVDs? We have everything set up” and Jenny was like “oh right, and
then we’ll get to watch the DVD menu.” For those of you watching on the DVD set
at home: I’m so sorry that we have not discussed this, we haven’t seen it yet, and
opening credits are pretty bananas and amazing.
Jenny:​ Yeah, yeah, yeah. When you first insert the disk into your DVD player, for
the uninitiated [Kristin laughs] you need to get to the menu that will show you
which episodes are on the DVD, but before you can get to that menu there’s this
music that’s like [imitates music sounds], like very late 90s dance music, but like
the aggressive— Prodigy coming up I think for the second time. Prodigy-esque.
Kristin: ​It’s funny because what was I gonna say is that the music is really
appropriate for the one clip that they do show of Faith and Buffy dancing at the
Bronze.
Jenny: ​Sexy dancing at the Bronze, yesssss.
Kristin: ​Yeah, yeah, yeah. Maybe they picked the music solely to accompany that
clip.
Jenny: ​Maybe they picked the clip solely for me.
Kristin: ​[laughs] I think both are true. So, anyway.
Jenny: ​The dunking?
Kristin: ​The dunking.
Jenny: ​The dunk-tank?


Kristin: ​The dunk— So, last episode I sat down with Jack Plotnick, we talked about
“Bad Girls”, it ruled, but we also talked about “Consequences”, just a tiny bit, this
scene, and we didn’t want to tell you that we had more of that interview because
we didn’t want to spoil the fact the he was in this little bit of this episode. So, we
have something to share from that with you. It’s a very fun story that Jack had to
tell about this scene, but before we share, do you wanna talk about this scene a
little bit?
Jenny: ​I just wanna talk about when Buffy comes up and breaks the surface of the
water, and Faith is there, and you see sort of from below Faith’s hand coming
down towards Buffy’s face/the camera. And then it cuts, so that it’s above her
hand, and you see her hand pushing Buffy’s head down into the water. It just looks
like— her arm looks like a wet noodle. She just doesn’t look like she’s pushing very
hard. Then they cut to a sort of side shot, and that looks legit. I’m sorry that was
just for me, I guess.
Kristin: ​That was for you. That was Jenny’s investigations.
Jenny: ​Thanks for listening to our amazing podcast!
Kristin: ​[laughs] Anyhow, this is the first scene, it’s what we open on, it’s before
the credits even hit, and it’s really haunting, and obviously it sets the stage for the
rest of the episode.
Jenny: ​And the pure lack of sexy dancing.
Kristin: ​Yes. And it’s a direct bridge, you know, we’ve just left “Bad Girls” and
we’re like, “whaaaaat?” and they’re like, “remember?” And we’re like, “whaaaaat?”
So let’s just jump over to Jack real quick, and hear the story that he told about
filming this scene.
[Chime]
Kristin: ​We see your character again, and you are underwater, and you are pulling
Buffy down. It’s a dream sequence. But you are underwater! And I would love to
hear about what that was like.
Jack: ​I was probably trepidetious. I’d never done underwater stuff, and what
happened was, they said “ok, so we’re gonna do this thing underwater, and if you
want you can get in the water and feel what that feels like, and check out the
temperature, it’s nice and warm” but there was no training or anything. It was just
you’re just gonna do this.


And I was coming from a place of “yeah, I’m happy to do it. And how long do I
have to hold my breath?” And they said “probably”, I’m guessing now, “probably 30
seconds,” and I tested it and I knew I could do that. So I really didn’t know what I
was gonna do, I just knew I was gonna be in the water at some point. However the
scene kept getting pushed, and so, you know, you’ve got all this adrenaline, you’re
sitting in your trailer, you’re waiting for the scene to happen, and it keeps getting
pushed to later and later at night.
And Eliza was on set as well, and I went to her trailer, and eventually I was like
“well, I don’t think this is gonna happen for a while, and I’m so hungry.” So I had
this big ham sandwich. Ate the ham sandwich, I think I even had a cigarette with
Eliza in her trailer, and they were like “Jack Plotnick to the set, please.” My heart
dropped, because there’s something you can’t do after you eat a ham sandwich and
have a cigarette is hold your breath. [Kristin laughs]
By the way I don’t smoke anymore, I haven’t smoked in years and years and years,
and I can’t tell you enough how important it is not to smoke, so please, don’t make
the stupid decisions I made when I was very young. And I’ve never smoked
seriously, I would just— on set it was fun to have acigarette if another actor was
doing it, ‘cause it felt cool Hollywood, James Dean [Kristin laughs] but that was the
only reason I did it. It was ‘cause Eliza was so cool when she did it!
Kristin: ​I was gonna say, if there’s ever a good time to smoke a cigarette it’s if
Eliza invites you to her trailer to have a cigarette.
Jack:​ So anyway, there’s nothing you can do. You’re called to set and you’re on,
and I was freaking out because my stomach was now full, and I was all night not
eating ‘cause I didn’t want— So anyway, I get in the water, and they explain to me
the shot, and this was [laughs] really sucky!
They go “ok so, here’s how we’ve set up the shot: you’re gonna go underwater, a
guy in a scuba gear is going to grab your foot and hold you underwater. Now, the
camera is going to slowly pan up your body, up to your face, then on your arm, to
your hand holding the stunt woman's leg.” Ok, that’s the hardest way to shoot the
scene because it’s just makes everything ten times longer.
Kristin: ​I was gonna say it doesn’t sound like 30 seconds.
Jack: ​It was a nightmare. It was really scary that they were doing the shot this
way, ‘cause it just meant everything was longer. So anyway, we did it, and it was
scary, and uncomfortable, and I just never want— I think we probably did, let’s
say, 3 or 4 takes, and I was very glad when it was over. I mean, they didn’t


mistreat me at all, and it’s my fault I ate that ham sandwich, but it was definitely
not more than I could take, but it was intense, and a little scary.
Then I’ll never forget, it was the last time I was on set, and the last time I saw Eliza
on set: I’m all wet, and I’m getting back to my trailer, and it’s now so late at night,
and she steps out of her trailer, and says “goodnight Jack!” And she’s in a gown,
because she’s headed to a party. And I went “you go!” Like I just loved that about
her, she wanted to go to this party at like 10:30, or 11, and it’s now 2 a.m., and
she was going.
Kristin:​ Wow, oh my gosh. Incredible.
Jack: ​She had the dress and she was going. So I loved that about her, she was just
a cool chick.
[Chime]
Kristin: ​So fun, just so fun. When we watched it through tonight I had heard that
story already and just kept imagining Jack full of a ham sandwich [both laugh]. I
also like— I just think it’s so fun that the more little tidbits we gather about Eliza
Dushku — I don’t know if I’m saying her name right, I’m sorry, I feel like I’ve said it
that way my whole life, but then other people—
Jenny: ​We’ve been advised to say it Dushku [/’dʌʃkuː/], or Dushku [/’dʊʃkuː/].
Dushku.
Kristin: ​[laughs] Jennifer.
Jenny: ​[laughs] Thanks again for listening to our amazing podcast!
Kristin: ​I want a ringtone that's just you trying to pronounce Eliza Dushku’s last
name. [imitating Jenny] Dushku. Dushku?. Dushku. Dushku, Dushku?
Jenny: ​Someone wrote us a very convincing email stating that the correct
pronunciation was having the first syllable rhyme with ‘push’ so: Dushku. Dush—
Kristin: ​STOP IT! [laughter]
Jenny: ​Eliza.
Kristin: ​Anyway, what I’m trying to say about Eliza is that I love that as we
journey forward in the podcast, we start to gather these tidbits from people like the


script we read in the special episode with Nerf Herder, that had been signed to
them from Eliza that was like “hey man! Whatever!”
And now we have this story that’s just like Eliza busting out of her trailer at 2 a.m.
she had the dress, she’s going to the fucking party. And I’m just saying, my
fantasies are coming true, they’re coming true. One by one the bricks are laying
down to form this perfect— ehm, I lost the metaphor. But you know what I mean?
Jenny: ​Sure, I know exactly what you mean.
Kristin: ​I’m having a good time.
Jenny: ​Me too.
Kristin: ​Anyhow, Allan and Faith dream happens, Buffy wakes up in some ​very
romantic Angel lighting, we haven’t seen Angel lighting this good since Season 2!
Jenny: ​Ha! Wow, wow. And whatever the hell time it is, Joyce is watching the
news. But it looks— did it look on the news like it was daytime or something?
Kristin:​ I know, I couldn’t figure it out! I was thinking the same thing, like when I
was watching the scene I was like “wait, is it the middle of the night or is it the
morning?”
Jenny: ​Maybe it’s very early morning.
Kristin:​ That’s what Joyce does? She gets up at 5 a.m. to watch the news.
Jenny: ​She watches the news. She’s like “give me your best murder stories! What
do you got, news?”
Kristin: ​[laughs] That is so fucking Joyce, though. Joyce loves a good murder
mystery. Totally.
Jenny: ​Yeah, yeah, yeah. She’s all about any opportunity to say “isn’t it just
awful?”
Kristin: ​[Laughs] She’s almost as disturbed as she was with those two dead
children.
Jenny: ​Right, right. Allan, deputy mayor Allan, discovered by fishermen, who
dutifully handed him over to the Sunnydale PD.


Kristin: ​[sighs] So then we go to the credits. We know the gig is up, the body’s
been found, Faith is good at a lot of things but not lying, and not dumping a body!
[laughs]
Jenny: ​No, those are her two weak spots.
Kristin: ​Two weaknesses.​ ​We go to the library where “hey, green mug, what’s up?”
Little green mug alert. And Wesley? [Jenny laughs] Wesley is around and guess
who is meeting Wesley for the first time?
Jenny:​ ​Oh!

Yes. Yes.

Kristin: ​Oh, did you have other Wesley things to discuss?
Jenny: ​Well, Wesley like assigns them to the case, even though technically it’s out
of their jurisdiction.
Kristin: ​Yeah, this is a little odd.
Jenny:​ And Faith is unflapped.
Kristin: ​It’s like Wesley is suspicious of something? Which doesn’t really add up
with the information he has? You know what I mean? I guess because the mayor is
involved, and they know that the mayor—
Jenny: ​I don’t think that they know that the mayor is—
Kristin: ​They don’t even know! So what the fuck, Wesley?
Jenny: ​Yeah, it’s curious.
Kristin:​ It’s curious. It’s curious indeed, but anyhow—
Jenny: ​But regardless that’s not the best—
Kristin: ​Speaking of things that are curious, how old is Wesley? I mean, he’s
certainly not 241, so. [Jenny laughs]
Jenny: ​Advantage Wesley.
Kristin: ​He’s got advantage over at least one character on this show.


Jenny:​ But we have to assume that he is an adult, and he believes that Cordelia
is—
Kristin: ​A teacher.
Jenny: ​Which is fair because Charisma Carpenter is like 5 years older than
everybody else, right?
Kristin: ​Same age as Jenny Calendar. I mean, Cordelia isn’t the same age as Jenny
Calendar, but Charisma Carpenter is the same age as Robia LaMorte.
Jenny: ​So we get where Wesley assumption is coming from, but then we get this
great moment where the fucking fly-by-night Giles just sweeps through the back of
the frame that Wesley is in, and is like “she’s a student.”
Kristin: ​Cordelia has a couple of really great lines, one is “what are you, Giles next
generation?”
Jenny:​ So good.
Kristin:​ Really solid. And also “I like a man with two last names.” Yeah, you do
Cordy.
Jenny: ​Well, she also says “it’s about time we had some fresh blood around here”
and then the way that he says [imitating Wesley] “mhm, fresh”.
Kristin:​ Anyway, I would like to give Cordelia a jingle here—
Jenny: ​Just for like being—
Kristin: ​Existing, for being not— I just feel Cordelia for the last few episodes, as we
discussed last week, has been one layer, and has just been one-dimensional—
Jenny: ​Antagonizing Xander.
Kristin: ​Yeah, and I haven’t been into it because we know there’s more there, and
not that she’s fully present here, but she’s returning a little bit in this scene and I
would like to give her her jingle.
[CORDELIA jingle plays]
Cordelia (ah-ahh)
I love you Cordelia (ah-ahh)
You’re perfect Cordelia (ah-ahh)


Jenny: ​Yes.
Kristin: ​Thank you very much for obliging, for granting me my wish.
Jenny: ​But of course!
Kristin: ​I don’t know if you know this but I hold a lot of power, I say “play the
Cordelia jingle” and it shall be played.
Jenny: ​That’s what happens. It’s almost as if you waltzed into my library and said
“I’m your commander now!”
Kristin: ​Oh my God, seriously.
Jenny: ​He needs to relax!
Kristin: ​He needs to relax. And this scene like ok, we cackled, we giggled, we
laughed, ‘cause there were some funny things, but also like aaaaaaaaaa?
Jenny and Kristin: ​aaaaaaaaargh.
Kristin: ​Yeah, I would like to bring us to the T-shirt that Faith is wearing, it says
“Motion city baby”, and the first person to figure out where I can fucking get one of
those shirts is gonna— can have whatever they want from the store. Whatever they
want. Two, three. You can have four of whatever you want.
Jenny: ​It’s a race. What?! Pandemonium.
Kristin: ​I just really want the shirt. Faith wearing the shirt stirs up in me— Jenny
and I just watched Lady Bird, and watching that movie stirred up in me all of the
nostalgia of my youth, and I think it’s up at the surface because I just saw Faith in
that shirt and I have 100,000 feelings. It’s good, it’s just that’s it.
Jenny: ​Oh yes. They were just feelings related to your youth, though?
Kristin: ​My gay roots. The way Faith looks wearing that T-shirt is like my teenage
fantasy. Not even— I didn’t even have fantasies as a teenager, I didn’t know what a
fantasy was, but it was like the thing— Even when I think back on my first
relationship with a girl, when I remember her, it was like wearing a T-shirt like that,
you know?


Jenny: ​Yes. So, Buffy and Faith go into a private classroom and close the door, and
you think things are about to get awesome, but no! They have to talk about the
dead guy again!
Kristin:​ The dead guy is ruining everything.
Jenny: ​Allan!
Kristin: ​Deputy Mayor Allan Finch you’re really taking the fun out of… Funnydale.
Sorry, I didn’t know where to go with that. [laughs]
Jenny: ​So, Buffy is like, so upset. She’s so upset! And she just wants to do the
right thing and be honest, she’s a truth-teller and she cannot tell a lie.
Kristin: ​She really struggles in this episode and it is very wonderfully done, I think?
Jenny: ​Yeah, that conflict when you want to take care of your friend but ultimately
in order to take care of your friend you have to do something that’s gonna really
bum them out.
Kristin: ​And a lot of what happens in this episode is what we’ve been— why is no
one doing this shit for Faith? It’s like all of a sudden they were like “wait, why is
nobody doing this shit for Faith?”
Jenny: ​[laughs] They were listening to the podcast, and then they got to this
episode.
Kristin: ​They time-travelled, they listened to the podcast and they returned to the
1999 writer’s room and someone said “uh, those girls had a good point!” [both
laugh] But yeah, I really feel for a lot of people in this episode, it’s a really dark
episode, I mean… you know that’s what happens when people are bad girls.
Jenny: ​Mmmmmmmmmm, welllllllllll, I don’t know, I think sometimes...
Kristin: ​Just kidding, just bringing back that tricky metaphor all over again. But no,
this conversation is very real, and Buffy is sort of saying “we have to do this right
thing” and Faith is like “no, we don’t.” And Faith is— they do a good job of allowing
Faith to be ridiculously defensive where you can see right through what she’s
saying, and also vulnerable in the first half, before Wesley fucks everything up,
where you can really see that maybe there is a chance, just like everyone is saying.
There might be a chance, there might be a chance to help her.
Jenny: ​Oh, Faith!


Kristin: ​Anyhow, so, this scene ends, and then another sad scene happens where
Buffy goes over to Willow.
Jenny: ​Oh no!
Kristin: ​It’s like, you know, when you spend too much time with Faith, and Willow
is mad at you, Faith has killed a guy, what are you gonna do?! You got no friends
left!
Jenny: ​Yeah, yeah, you’re all out of friends.
Kristin: ​Yeah, Willow is obviously very hurt—
Jenny: ​Oh, Willow.
Kristin: ​—for justifiable reasons, and jeez, Willow! The hurt that we see from
Willow— I’m not even gonna go in order, I’m just gonna go on a little
Willow-tangent here— because we see Willow and Buffy in this first scene, where
Willow is very strong and is very, you know, I need to do this for myself— Willow is
really good, like she is very aware of herself and her needs. She’s still struggling
with standing up for herself for long periods of time, but she’s working on it, and
she’s able to do it in short bursts—
Jenny: ​Do you think she is so self-aware because her parents are psychologists?
Kristin: ​Mmmm, I would say yes if we hadn’t met her mother [both laugh] but I’m
not sure. I just feel like she knows in this moment that she’s been hurt and that
entitles her to get up and say she needs to go now. And she does that. And it’s
really sad, and everybody is sad, but then, when get to, later on in the episode,
where she finds out that Xander has slept with Faith… it’s like, I can’t with the
scene in the bathroom, Jenny. I can’t.
Jenny: ​Oh man. No, no, no.
Kristin: ​I forgot— we just watched the episode and we’re watching it again and I
still forgot who is in the bathroom, I was like “is it Faith?” No, idiot! It’s not Faith,
Faith is not crying in the bathroom, it’s Willow! Of course it’s Willow. She just feels
so left out and dear God, if I have any emotion from my teenage years that is
identifiable and, you know, significant, it is this emotion. Of feeling like I’m not
good enough or cool enough, and people aren’t gonna like me as much as they like
this other cool person.


Jenny: ​Right, and Xander had sex with Faith without me.
Kristin: ​[laughs] Wow, Jenny.
Jenny: ​What? That’s a terrible feeling.
Kristin: ​Were your teenage years fraught with emotions like these that Willow is
going through as well?
Jenny:​ Yeah, I mean, was anybody a teenager without those feelings?
Kristin: ​I don’t know! I don’t know.
Jenny: ​I wanna meet that person.
Kristin:​ I mean probably not, but I just feel like I especially had them, you know?
Like I was especially sensitive.
Jenny: ​Right, well probably, you know, I was feeling the same things you were
feeling, but you were probably really expressing them, and I was… not.
Kristin: ​And you were like “I’m gonna pierce my own ears! To get out my grief!”
Jenny: ​[laughs] And nose.
Kristin: ​And nose. And bellybutton.
Jenny: ​That I didn’t do myself, can we stop talking about that piercing, please?
Kristin: ​I’m sorry, we’re hosting a podcast that takes place in the 90s.
Jenny: ​If anybody’s got a belly button ring is definitely Faith Lehane.
Kristin: ​[laughs] That’s true.
Jenny: ​That is prime belly button ring material.
Kristin: ​Yes, you’re correct. Before we leave the topic of me feeling like people
might not like me when I was in high school I just feel like I should very briefly tell
this story. When I was in high school I had a camcorder, if you don’t know what
that is look it up, and we made movies a lot. Scream had already come out, so we
made Scream 2 before Scream 2 came out. If I could get my hands on this tape, I
would just do almost anything to get it, I’d give you four T-shirts from the store!


Jenny: ​Oh my gosh.
Kristin:​ Just kidding, that was a call back. What I mean to say is that we did
Scream 2 and, spoiler alert, I was the killer and my character— we wrote my
character to be always home with her friends having not called her. But that was
like literally what was— it was literally so mean. It was like my friends recognized
that this thing was happening in real life, and then they wrote it into the script and
I acted it, and... the end.
Jenny: ​And you’re still committed to calling those people your friends?
Kristin: ​Yeaaaaah, I mean, it was high school.
Jenny: ​I mean, as we discussed, everyone is an asshole in high school.
Kristin: ​Yeah, it’s very hard to know that to do with your emotions and how to
treat people. I mean, those friends of mine were friends of mine for like a decade.
It wasn’t just that one year they were jerks and then they left. It was just like
everybody trying to figure out who they were and how to navigate that stuff?
Jenny: ​Okayyy, fiiiine.
Kristin: ​Anyway, a plot device that we used in Scream 2 was that at the time
Burger King was giving out Dino Eyes because Jurassic Park 2 or 3 or 7 was coming
out, I don’t remember, and everybody had the Dino Eye Watch, so every time you
saw the killer kill somebody you saw the Dino Eye Watch in the screen, but
everyone had one so you never knew who it was.
Jenny: ​Wasn’t it you?
Kristin: ​It was me. [both laugh] Ok, wow, I am so sorry to have taken us down
that path. I was just determined to make sure that you all knew that I created the
movie Scream 2 before Scream 2.
Jenny: ​Yes! Yes, a true visionary.
Kristin: ​Okay.
Jenny: ​Speaking of a vision [Kristin laughs] wow! Angel is watching the forensic
team from the shadows, at the crime scene, and I have to wonder if Angel is
looking at this forensic team thinking “perhaps one day I’ll on a successful ten
season crime procedural, I should pay close attention.”


Kristin: ​Right, that but also, this is his internal monologue right? He’s like “I am
detective Angel. Blood? Wait, I’ve seen blood before. Blood plus blood must mean
blooood. I am detective Angel.”
Jenny: ​That was really good, honey.
Kristin: ​Just like, come on man!
Jenny: ​Yeah, it’s a lot.
Kristin: ​You see blood— it’s like he has one memory of blood, his whole life is full
of blood, literally.
Jenny: ​Listen, he’s only just begun to detect in this episode. He has much more
detecting yet to come.
Kristin: ​[laughs] Oh, so good! So, then the mayor is just so relatable in this scene
to me. He’s like “you know, paper-shredding usually makes me feel better and it’s
just not working” and I’m like “I get you, man”. How satisfying is a paper-shredder?
Jenny: ​So satisfying.
Kristin: ​God. I wanna shout out because we don’t have Kate in this episode, I
wanna give a shout out to Trick’s velvet fucking jacket. Trick always is pretty
tricked-out, he’s always wearing some very nice pieces of clothing, but the velvet
jacket, just… really nice.
Jenny: ​It’s really good. Also he’s got a very important piece of information.
Kristin: ​He does.
Jenny:​ Which is that splinters were found in Allan’s heart.
Kristin: ​Which ouch!
Jenny: ​So ouch.
Kristin: ​Like ooh, what a way to go! Out of all the ways that’s gotta be down at the
bottom of the list.
Jenny: ​[laughing] Bottom of the list.


Kristin: ​Anyway.
Jenny: ​The Mayor is delighted by this new information, splinters in the heart of his
dead deputy mayor. So psyched!
Kristin: ​Yes! So psyched. And someone else is at the Mayor’s office, actually.
Jenny: ​Oh, just two girls breaking and entering.
Kristin: ​Right?! My note is “ladies in the dark, doing sneaky things” [Jenny laughs]
Really, I just want it back, you know?
Jenny: ​Oh my gosh, they’re going through Allan’s office—
Kristin: ​Yeah, they’re looking through Allan’s files.
Jenny: ​Faith is looking at a photo of the Mayor with Allan and she’s like—
Kristin: ​“Ah, he came out of nowhere”
Jenny: ​“He came out of nowhere”, all emotional, and Buffy is like “girl, I know”,
and Faith’s like “whatever! Guy stuff! Football! I’ve never had a feeling! I loved
killing a man!”
Kristin: ​Faith is a full cat.
Jenny: ​Ha!
Kristin: ​Like, Faith is a cat who’s like just starting to get affectionate and then gets
noticed and they’re like “what, me?! I was just licking my paw! I’m a cat and I don’t
care about you, I’m evil”.
Jenny:​ [laughs] I think she might be a couple degrees past cat, at this point.
Kristin: ​Some cats maybe not, but anyway, that was where I wrote “Faith talks to
B like they’ve been dating for six months” I put here. [laughing] I don’t know why I
gave them a short span for the demise of their relationship.
Jenny: ​Wow. Yeah, no I mean... better to burn out than to fade away, am I right?
Kristin: ​Oh wow, Jenny. So, they find something in that they find nothing, and that
is enough to say “oh” and then they see the Mayor and Trick aaaaaaand they’re like


“oh shit.” And so this is— you’re right, this is really the first time that they’re like
“oh, the Mayor is evil”.
Jenny: ​We’ve been seeing that the Mayor is evil this whole time.
Kristin: ​Right. Sometimes I forget that you’re not actually Buffy the vampire
slayer.
Jenny: ​Thank you! Me too.
Kristin: ​[laughs] They go out into the street and they have this conversation—
Jenny: ​Oh my God, it’s so intense!
Kristin: ​So intense! This is six months! Six months!
Jenny: ​They have so many incredibly intense conversations in this episode.
Kristin: ​They do. “I know what you’re feeling because I’m feeling it too”. There’s a
lot of this! I started it to make fun, or to be like “hahaha”, but there’s actually a lot
of this in this episode that’s mostly from Faith’s angle, but in this instance, in this
quote, is actually Buffy saying “I’m feeling what you’re feeling and like we have to
share this”
But there’s a lot of moments in this episode where Faith is like “Buffy, just tell me
that you have these feelings, too. Just tell me that sometimes you get off on killing
a vamp.” And she says it in a tone that makes you think that she’s just like “come
one B! I just want you to have fun with me!”. But in this episode, watching it
tonight especially, I was just like “ugh, this girl just wants to feel normal with her
feelings.
She’s just desperate for Buffy to say “Yes! I have these feelings too. You’re not
alone with these feelings”. And Buffy can’t give that to her, because Buffy is not at
that place yet where she’s able to feel comfortable enough to say— Because Faith is
right! Buffy is fighting these fights, she has these feelings. You see, just like Faith
sees, that Buffy is understanding what Faith is saying— not about killing a man!
Jenny: ​Heavens no.
Kristin: ​But like slaying and that like— They’re fighters, and they are different from
other people, and no, Buffy doesn’t think they’re above the law, but they just miss
each other. I don’t know, through this episode I just felt so upset for Faith that no


one could seem to speak her language. We’ll get to some people trying to speak her
language very soon—
Jenny: ​Oh heavens.
Kristin: ​But first, this scene is like, “we’re warriors, we don’t get to pass
judgement” and Faith says “but we are better than other people”.
Jenny:​ Right, she also says… “you know, one guy, one innocent bystander got
caught in the crossfire, how many people do you think we’ve saved?” And I think
that qualifies as…
[HELLMATH jingle plays]
Hellmath!
Kristin:​ [laughs] Okay, you’re right. When you’re right, you’re right. That is
Hellmath, Jenny. I had no idea that is where you were going with that.
Jenny:​ I did not mean to derail you from your deep emotional pursuits.
Kristin:​ No! Please feel free to derail me with the Hellmath jingle anytime you want
so long as it’s warranted with Hellmath.
Jenny:​ Thank you.
Kristin: ​You’re welcome, no I was just getting real worked up when you were
saying that because an argument like Faith’s arguments, some of them really have
weight to them. It isn’t just like oh yeah Buffy’s definitely right and Faith is
definitely wrong.
I don’t know watching it I’m like okay these are two distinct perspectives and Faith
obviously did not kill the deputy mayor on purpose. We know for a fact it was an
accident and she doesn’t trust the council, which fucking who would?
Jenny:​ Of course not.
Kristin:​ They’re a fucking nightmare.
Jenny: ​They’re psychopaths.
Kristin:​ And she’s saying listen I dealt with this shit and I’m gonna reconcile it in
my heart because I know I was doing the right thing and I know I saved people’s


lives and it sucks that this happened but it fucking happened. And I’m not gonna
trust these fucking old men in a fucking castle somewhere to deal with my shit!
Jenny:​ [laughs] A castle somewhere! Also based on the prequel novel Go Ask
Malice…
Kristin:​ [laughs] Oh my god.
Jenny:​ I just see a lot in Go Ask Malice that really outlines why Faith has so many
trust issues.
Kristin:​ I see.
Jenny:​ And yeah of course she’s been taking care of herself since she was just a
young thing. And I’m sure has every reason to think oh more fucking old tweed
dudes in a castle, of course they’re gonna fuck me over.
Kristin:​ Right, never trust an old tweed dude in a castle.
Jenny:​ Never.
Kristin:​ That’s the rules. Those are the rules. So just a very passionate
conversation between two slayers—
Jenny:​ Who are totally just friends and always have been.
Kristin:​ Totally just friends, right.
Jenny:​ My favorite part is when Faith is like “nobody’s gonna cry over some
random bystander” and Buffy’s like “I am”. [Kristin laughs] And then later she does.
Kristin:​ She does but aww.
Jenny:​ No it’s very—
Kristin:​ I know.
Jenny:​ You know, she’s the best obviously but—
Kristin:​ So then we get to, now this is a pivotal scene. This is what the whole
episode is about, the cop, the lieutenant is here, he is interviewing—
Jenny:​ [laughs] Finally, the star of the show.


Kristin:​ [laughs] The star of the show. It just kills me that that’s what they said in
the description. Okay so the cop is interviewing Buffy and interviewing Faith and it’s
done in this intercut way where— are their stories matching up? Not really.
Jenny:​ Not so much. Just… hanging. Classic Faith.
Kristin:​ And whatever, this scene is this scene but this scene really comes to a
climax when it pans out of the motel room.
Jenny:​ From behind the payphone in the shadows, stepping out into some very
specific lighting Angel is like... lurk.
Kristin:​ Detective Angel.
Jenny:​ [laughs] Yes.
[DETECTIVE ANGEL jingle plays]
Detective Angel!
Jenny:​ That’s right he’s putting together all the pieces.
Kristin:​ Yes, blood plus blood equals blood. Faith lives in a motel…
Jenny:​ [laughing] what?
Kristin:​ Those are his— if you opened up detective Angel’s notebook it would say...
Jenny:​ His notebook that’s emblazoned with the word “clues”
Kristin:​ [laughs] It’s from 17th century France and it just has “clues” burned into—
Jenny:​ In French.
Kristin:​ Yeah, however you say clues. Look it up! How do you say clues in French?
Did you look it up?
Jenny:​ [quietly] Des indices
Kristin:​ I’m sorry I couldn’t hear you Jenny.
Jenny:​ [even quieter] Des indices.


Kristin:​ I still can’t hear you.
Jenny:​ [loudly] Des indices!
Kristin:​ [laughs] It sort of sounds like you’re saying “these undies”. Angel is like,
his notebook says “these undies”.
Jenny:​ No… Des indices. I’m doing a bad job.
Kristin:​ You’ve been doing such a good job. So yes he opened up his clues
notebook and he wrote down: blood plus blood equals blood and Faith lives in a
motel.
Jenny: ​Perfect.
Kristin:​ He is on the fucking case!
J
enny:​ He’s closin’ in on the criminals.
Kristin: ​So then Buffy goes to Willow’s and oh my god the coat that Buffy is
wearing.
Jenny:​ Wow, so pink.
Kristin:​ We thought that big red coat was gonna be the biggest that her coats got
but no, she had one bigger for us. A giant pink coat and now Willow— Willow has
these moments all the time.
Jenny: ​I love them.
Kristin:​ Right? Where she’s like now I’m gonna really tell ya how I feel. And she
never knows that the other person is going through something different.
Jenny:​ Yes, yes, yes.
Kristin:​ And that’s what happens here. “All of the sudden I’m not cool enough
because I can’t kill things with my hands” she says not realizing that her words will
trigger—
Jenny:​ Buffy to cry as promised, the prophecy that was foretold has come to pass.
Kristin:​ And Willow’s retreat, where she’s like oh no I didn’t mean it, I say the
wrong things, I’m bad, I am bad, I am so bad. It’s just like noooooooo.


Jenny:​ Awwwwww.
Kristin:​ Willow, ohhhhh. Hold on to it man you were doing such a good job.
Jenny:​ Yeah, she was doing a really good job. But then she turns it around and
does a good job and says “you have to tell Giles obviously, Giles will know what to
do”
Kristin:​ Ugh, but you know Faith realized that she had to tell Giles first... that Buffy
did it. [Jenny laughs] You know, I’m sad for Faith, I’m just sad for Faith in this
episode that’s where I’m at. But I also had a lot of love for Giles in this scene. Giles
was soooo quick on his feet.
Jenny:​ Yeeesssss, very convincing.
Kristin:​ Yeah, and he’s taking that all in as it comes. He’s like Faith is here, she’s
lying to me. Oh my god Buffy’s here, oh my god Faith just walked out and now
Buffy knows that Faith is here. And he makes the decision on the fly to pretend like
he believes Faith to get Faith to leave so that he can tell Buffy if I had told her I
didn’t believe her we would have lost her. It’s like man where were you people for
the other episodes.
Jenny:​ Before, when she was still living in the hotel and had no supervision of any
kind.
Kristin:​ You know what he doesn’t know, Giles? He doesn’t know how far she’ll
take this charade [pronounces it sharod, both laugh] Sorry I just—
Jenny:​ I have two things, two important things. First is that when Faith huffs out of
the library she makes a swishing sound that she’s almost always making ‘cause
she’s always wearing a certain substance and I thought a good verb, a new verb for
Faith—
Kristin:​ Ooh, a new verb!
Jenny:​ Was that in this scene she “pleathers off”
Kristin:​ Ooh, pleathers, like the verb is pleathers?
Jenny:​ Yes.
Kristin:​ I love it.


Jenny:​ Because it’s the noise that pleather makes as it swishes. And then
secondarily Giles says “She may have many talents but fortunately lying isn’t one of
them” I made an incomplete but very nice list of some of Faith’s talents that I
would like to share.
Kristin: ​[laughs] Wow, okay great yes.
Jenny: ​Sexy dancing.
Kristin:​ Yep, mhm.
Jenny:​ Slaying!
Kristin:​ Yes!
Jenny:​ Petty theft.
Kristin:​ Ooh.
Jenny:​ Dark lipstick application.
Kristin:​ Yesssss.
Jenny: ​Cleaning blood out of white tank tops in motel sinks.
Kristin:​ [laughs]
Jenny:​ And learning new words and incorporating them into her vocabulary.
Kristin:​ Oh, what’s an example?
Jenny:​ Spahtan! [Spartan with a Boston accent] Would be a good example. [Kristin
laughs] Great, thank you.
Kristin:​ Aww, so many positive things about Faith Lehane.
Jenny:​ Yeah! Look at her go.
Kristin:​ Giles is not gonna go to the council because Giles also hates the
Patriarchy, great!
Jenny:​ And the council-riarchy.


Kristin:​ Yeah, council-riarchy, great Jenny.
Jenny:​ Thank you.
Kristin:​ But fucking, you know who doesn’t hate the council?
Jenny:​ Guuuuuuhhh!
Kristin:​ Is fucking Wesley.
Jenny:​ Wesley, how did you not learn your lesson last week that you are very bad
at this job and you should be learning from Giles.
Kristin:​ Yeah dude, just chill, stay to the background and learn what you need to
learn and you’ll become a good watcher in time. Just stop fucking... ughhhh! Stop
being such a dude.
Jenny:​ That would be nice.
Kristin:​ Yeah, so one thing [laughs] that I do like about the scene with Wesley is
that the codeword is “monkey”.
Jenny:​ And that you have to spell it.
Kristin:​ Right, why? What? They’re all British it’s not like they don’t understand
what he’s saying ‘cause of his accent. Anyway Xander, oh Xander. So my note in
this scene is “Oh Xander, Oh buddy” just ‘cause he’s like “hey, guys Faith and I are
really tight” and I know I shouldn’t feel bad for Xander, he’s Xander, but I feel bad
for Xander in this scene.
Jenny:​ Listen, I feel like it’s perfectly reasonable to feel bad for Xander in this
scene and the scene that follows, he’s trying to help.
Kristin:​ Yeah, the scene that follows…
Jenny:​ And he’s trying to take care.
Kristin:​ Right, he is trying to take care of Faith, he’s trying to help the scoobies. He
really thinks that the connection that he had with Faith was something that wasn’t
just sex, it really meant something to him. He thinks it meant something to her, not
something huge but enough for it to be a connection.


And I have to say that when we see them in her room and he’s saying “you have to
be real with me, there was something there” most of me wants to say okay Xander
had never had sex before. He probably laid on some stuff but there is a part of me
that is like mmm? Maybe Xander did see a vulnerable side of Faith for a moment
before he was kicked to the curb.
Jenny:​ Totally!
Kristin:​ Maybe there is some truth to what he is saying and I don’t know, I feel
bad. I felt bad for him in the first scene where they’re talking about how to help her
because Buffy’s like “oh, sorry man but she literally just makes jokes out of every
guy that she sleeps with” which is harsh.
Jenny:​ I feel like you didn’t have to say the whole thing Buffy. But also does she
not take her connections with guys seriously for another specific reason?
Kristin:​ Oh, for a lady specific reason?
Jenny:​ I don’t know, maybe she just has other stuff going on. Do carry on.
Kristin:​ Then when we get into this scene with Xander and Faith it’s like Xander
also went back in time and listened to our podcast on ​The Zeppo​ and was like “you
know? You’ve got a point there” because he does all of the things that you kind of
wanted him to do, that I kind of wanted him to do in ​The Zeppo.​
Where he’s like “you know what that’s not what I’m fucking here for, this is not
what I’m here for, this is not what I want. I’m here because I wanna help, please
talk to me, please trust me” That’s the recurring theme in this episode is everyone
saying please trust me to somebody who does not have the capacity to trust. And
this scene is dark.
Jenny:​ Yeah, it’s very upsetting.
Kristin:​ It’s very upsetting, I mean this is a scene of sexual assault that turns very
quickly from sexual assault into physical or whatever you call it when you’re gonna
be killed.
Jenny:​ …Right. Murder?
Kristin:​ Yeah, I was watching it thinking wow this is for sure a scene of sexual
assault that’s happening and forgetting— I always forget these fucking things. I
forgot again that it doesn’t end there, that she then tries to kill Xander. Who knows
where this is gonna go, luckily detective Angel.


Jenny:​ Is there with his trusty shovel.
Kristin:​ “Faith lives in a motel!” [both laugh]
Jenny:​ Could I just touch on a couple of the nice things about this scene?
Kristin:​ Please. Yeah, I know what one of ‘ems gonna be.
Jenny:​ First of all, I know when I’m in my seedy motel watching old movies on free
tv, I’m always gonna be wearing my leather pants, my sheer collared shirt over a
black bra or tankini or something. What do ladies wear?
Kristin:​ Tankini Jenny? you know you write it on—
Jenny:​ I don’t know, and a choker, my hair will be up— oh a bralette?
Kristin:​ Yes, a bralette, you know what it’s called.
Jenny:​ Okay, I guess I do. And with my hair up and my dark lipstick perfectly
applied and also my eyeliner on. Just laying on my stomach with my knees bent,
my ankles crossed.
Kristin:​ Well, you know what? What you’re saying is funny, I will give you that, but
also as you were going on and on and on about your outfit that you wear while
watching tv. I thought Faith is feeling really fucked up right now and I feel like
Faith’s leather and dark lipstick and all of those things are things that make her feel
better about herself and feel good. So it is possible I think that Faith was like I’m
gonna get dressed and I’m gonna fucking watch some tv and then I’m gonna go
out. You know, I’m gonna do all my Faith things to keep my mind off of murder.
Jenny:​ Right, right, go to The Bronze. Bronze the murder away and then what the
hell is sculpture over Faith’s bed?
Kristin: ​Oh my god, I wrote the same thing!
Jenny:​ What? It’s like a 3-dimensional sun if all of the flames of the sun were
coming off in every direction.
Kristin: ​It’s like full sci-fi, there’s a whole plotline that we’re not seeing here where
there’s a pod of some kind—
Jenny:​ That definitely came from the set of a cancelled show.


Kristin:​ Yeah, 100%.
Jenny:​ They were just dumpster diving in the lot.
Kristin:​ So anyhow, this is a complicated scene, this is a traumatic scene and
luckily Angel steps in with a bat? Was it a bat?
Jenny:​ Never been so happy to see Angel with a shovel.
Kristin:​ A shovel—
Jenny:​ The bat’s later.
Kristin:​ Right, okay. His detective kit has a shovel ​and​ a bat inside of it.
Jenny:​ [laughs] Oh my god.
Kristin:​ Angel of course saves Xander’s life because they’re boyfriends.
Jenny:​ Yes, they love each other.
Kristin:​ And takes Faith back to his mansion where he puts her in chains so that he
can psychoanalyze her—
Jenny:​ With all of his many years of psychoanalytical experience.
Kristin:​ Yeah, so this is—
Jenny:​ So this is a little thin right?
Kristin:​ Uhhhh yeah.
Jenny:​ He’s like I’m 241 years old and this week that means something in terms of
my emotional IQ and my experience and my—
Kristin:​ It’s just like stop making your experience my experience man, you know?
If I had the time I would go back in the episode and count and write down the
amount of ways in which he says once you kill someone you’ve got a taste for it. He
says it in like 57 different ways.”Once you do it you’ve got a taste for it and once
you’ve killed without remorse you do it again! Once you”— It’s like he literally sat
with his fucking detective notebook and wrote 14 ways he could say to Faith that
now she’ll kill for the rest of her life, she’ll always want to kill again.


Jenny:​ Angel, that’s you man. It’s really extreme, it’s not like she doesn’t have a
soul.
Kristin:​ Right! He’s like, “you know I know what it’s like to be an animal.” It’s like
dude! You didn’t have a soul and you were a vampire, this is a slayer who
accidentally killed somebody. She doesn’t have a taste for— I mean, whatever
they’re gonna move with this plotline as they will but come on! Come on Angel!
Jenny:​ I don’t know, there’s a pretty clear arc in view, steal a compound bow from
the bait and tackle shop [Kristin laughs] Accidentally kill a man. Become a full
fledged serial murderer.
Kristin:​ Yeah, that’s what Angel believes but I mean Angel’s trying to help and I do
like that but I just feel it’s a little misguided is all I’m saying. And this is more of
Buffy fighting for Faith, right? We need to show her that she can trust us, I’m
gonna go to her motel room and get some of her things so that she’ll see.
Jenny:​ Some of her tank tops.
Kristin:​ Right, and there’s a little cut away to Trick and the Mayor schemin’.
Jenny: ​Yeah, watchin’ that security footage.
Kristin:​ They saw us and now they must die. But then we’re back to Faith and
Angel—
Jenny:​ And here Angel says “You’re not much more than a child” Finally! Someone
noticed that Faith is a child.
Kristin:​ And you know what you do when a child is hurting? You chain them up in
your mansion and you tell them that they’ll want to kill for the rest of their lives
now. [Jenny laughs] Sorry, I just have a little bit of an issue with this scene. But it
does contain one of Jenny’s favorite lines of the whole series.
Jenny:​ One of my favorite lines of the whole series when Angel’s like “You can’t
imagine the price of true evil” and Faith’s like “Yeah, well I hope evil takes
Mastercard” Yes! Give me that line a-gain and a-gain.
Kristin:​ I’m gonna go out on a limb and say I think that evil does in fact take
Mastercard.


Jenny:​ Probably, evil probably just doesn’t take American Express ‘cause of the
higher percentage.
Kristin:​ Right, exactly. Then god fucking damn it Wesley is my note.
Jenny:​ Noooo, come on man.
Kristin:​ Are you fucking kidding me?
Jenny:​ Unnecessary sir and uncalled for.
Kristin:​ I have never done that thing where you take in a feral cat and you slowly
get it to trust you. It’s like you put the food twenty feet away and then ten feet
away and you slowly move the cat. I just imagine that this is how it must feel if you
were doing that and then something scares the fucking cat right when you’re about
to make progress and you have to start right back at the beginning again.
What the fuck Wesley barges the fuck in, he fucking nets— well this part I like. I
really gotta cackle from netted Angel and that was all it took, he was contained, he
was stuck in the net until Buffy got back to the mansion.
Jenny:​ They were beating him with crowbars Kristin, be reasonable.
Kristin:​ Okay, I’m sorry! It’s just in my mind they just put him in a net and he was
like, “God damn it!”
Jenny:​ It’s reminiscent of that one time that a door fell on him [Kristin laughs] and
then he stayed under it for like an hour!
Kristin:​ He’s like the strongest vampire of all time and he’s like “A net!?”
Jenny:​ My only weakness! So that happens and then of course Faith escapes within
minutes.
Kristin: ​Of course! She has a nice “I’m gonna pop this guy’s head like a grape if
you don’t fucking get me out of these cuffs you ding dong” is what she would say if
she were me. And then she jumps out of the back of the patrol truck.
Jenny:​ And does a roll I believe, sick.
Kristin:​ Really good stunt work done by Faith’s stunt person in this scene. Then we
go to the library where Willow is asking the big questions.


Jenny:​ Like why would we wanna help Faith?
Kristin:​ Right, she killed a man, she blamed Buffy and that’s I think Willow’s
biggest point.
Jenny:​ And also she slept with Xander, that seems to be a stinging point also.
Kristin: ​A stinging point, but I think Willow has some grounds to say—
Jenny:​ Oh, yeah!
Kristin:​ She tried to frame Buffy for murder which maybe we don’t want to have
that happen? That seems bad. But everybody else is sort of like no we’re gonna
stick this through and we believe in her and we’re all she has which is true.
Jenny:​ Right, and then bruised and beaten Wesley shows up and my main question
is how can Buffy wear a leopard print trench coat at a time like this? It is far too
whimsical for the occasion. She has certainly plenty of other trench coats to choose
from.
Kristin:​ You know maybe that one makes her feel powerful, maybe that’s her
power coat.
Jenny:​ Maybe…
Kristin:​ You’re sad about it?
Jenny:​ No, okay fine I’m into it.
Kristin:​ Something that I enjoyed about this scene was that they’re all like, “I’m
gonna do this, you guys go here” or whatever. And Angel’s like, “I’ll take the
airport.” [both laugh]
Jenny:​ There’s an airport?
Kristin:​ So random like okay. And I just pictured fucking snooping Angel at gate A2
standing behind—
Jenny:​ Being like “have you seen a girl who wears a lot of pleather”.
Kristin:​ Yeah, listening intently with his enhanced vampire ears for the sound of
pleathering. [both laugh] Anyhow, Buffy luckily is the one who gets the docks
because that of course is where our Faith is.


Jenny:​ Oh… yes. “It gets you gone,” she’s said previously.
Kristin:​ Yes, and Faith is on her way outta town and she sees Buffy they have this
exchange where again this is kind of what I was referring to earlier. Where she’s
like, “just tell me that you feel these feelings, I know you feel these feelings.” And
she gets Buffy so mad that Buffy punches her in the face.
Jenny:​ Ooooooh!
Kristin:​ What does she say? You know what she says?
Jenny:​ She says “There’s my girl”
Kristin:​ “There’s my girl!”
Jenny:​ How romantic.
Kristin:​ How romantic indeed. She just wants an emotional fucking connection
from Buffy right now. She is not able to receive the trust she’s not able to receive
the care. She’s really only able to receive this high level of emotion. This punch to
the face makes her feel something.
Jenny:​ Yeah, also I feel like this seeing-me-living-my-own-way-tempts-you line of
reasoning that she’s going down is pretty interesting.
Kristin:​ She just wants to know that she’s not a weirdo is what I think.
Jenny:​ Oh, she wants to feel seen?
Kristin:​ Yeah! I think she wants to feel seen and Buffy can’t really give that to her
the way that she’s after it.
Jenny:​ Certainly not right now because she’s trapped under a crate that just fell
very similar to Angel. Always getting trapped under stuff.
Kristin:​ Faith pulls one of her classic moves, we saw her use this move with the
garbage can earlier in the season but now it’s a vamp in a packing can of some
kind, It’s a great move, it’s always my favorite move. I love when she puts a
vampire in a can—
Jenny:​ Delightful.


Kristin:​ Which she does here. Trick is here and Trick has wrapped a red cord
around Buffy’s neck, it’s really upsetting. And he’s dragging her away by this leash
of sorts.
Jenny:​ Gross.
Kristin:​ And he has this comment that— We’ve talked about Trick and Race on this
show at some length in other episodes. This is just one of those moments where he
says to Buffy as he’s about to kill her and drink her blood “I hear once you’ve
tasted a slayer you never go back”
Which is like someone in the writers room was like ooh I know what would be funny
you know how there’s that phrase “once you go black you never go back” we should
just do a play on that ‘cause it’ll be funny. It’s like ahhhhhhHHHHHhhhhhh?
Jenny:​ No… thank you. Hard pass.
Kristin:​ Yeah, and Trick dies in this scene and when you think about it, which I’m
just doing right now, one of Trick’s first line was along the lines of “they’re strictly
the caucasian persuasion in the ‘Dale about race. Then we’ve gotten a couple little
things here and there. No depth at all into those queries.
Jenny:​ No, he just shows up and is like “there sure are a lot of white people
around”.
Kristin:​ Right, and then his last fucking line is a play on this— it’s just ahhhh! You
know? This show does a lot of things that are really good but it really misses the
mark when it comes to race in numerous ways. And this is not, I mean this moment
taken in and of itself is not this huge affront. It’s just the whole picture that we get
here of Trick’s time with us that I just feel could have been better. And I think Trick
deserved a better last line and RIP Trick.
Jenny: ​RIP Trick, you will be missed.
Kristin:​ You ​will​ be missed.
Jenny:​ You were a really fun part of the show.
Kristin:​ Yes, you and your velvet jackets, your love for marmaduke, your service
to the mayor and the way that his idiosyncrasies? What do you call those?
Jenny:​ Idiosyncrasies.


Kristin:​ Yeah?
Jenny:​ Yeah!
Kristin:​ Oh! You and how you enjoyed the idiosyncrasies of the mayor, all of it, I
will miss it dearly.
Jenny:​ Also his commitment to being a modern vampire, loved it.
Kristin:​ Yes! Oh my god remember his legacy slayerfest ‘98?
Jenny:​ Yeah! Of course!
Kristin:​ [sighs] Bye Trick.
Jenny:​ So, Trick is gone and as soon as he is turned to dust there’s plenty of open
space for two slayers to share meaningful eye contact.
Kristin:​ Right? Because last episode—
Jenny:​ Yeaaaaaahhhh!
Kristin:​ Last episode there was an eyebrow raise when Buffy staked a vamp for
Faith and now we’re getting some meaningful eye contact after Faith stakes a vamp
for Buffy.
Jenny:​ Yeeess! Yeep! It’s just a thing.
Kristin:​ It is, all sexualized joking aside, this is a huge deal which is what they're
discussing in the following scene. Faith tried to kill Xander but Faith definitely just
saved Buffy’s life and maybe it’s not a total loss, maybe there’s still a way to reach
her.
Jenny:​ And Buffy’s not gonna give up on her.
Kristin:​ Right, Buffy is not gonna give up on her also I am not gonna give up on
Giles’s thermos which is gorgeous.
Jenny:​ A nice… thermos.
Kristin:​ It’s like that man knows how to pick out glassware and thermos-ware and
ties and tweed. He knows some nice things when he sees ‘em. Anyway Buffy is not
gonna give up on Faith.


Jenny:​ Except maybe she should?
Kristin:​ Maybe, so this episode ends with Faith showing up at the mayor’s doorstep
and I don’t like that it’s happening but it is a pretty—
Jenny:​ Pretty sick move.
Kristin: ​Pretty fucking sick move, “hey you sent a guy to kill me? Yeah that guy’s
dead so you gotta job opening?”
Jenny:​ Unbelievable.
Kristin:​ Like… come on.
Jenny:​ Only Faith.
Kristin:​ That’s pretty great.
Jenny:​ She’s got a lot going for her.
Kristin:​ She does.
Jenny:​ There’s one thing we haven’t talked about yet?
Kristin:​ What’s that?
[SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays]
Sexual tension award!
Jenny:​ Sexual tension, who’s got it and who doesn’t?
Kristin:​ [laughs] Well, we talked long and hard about this one because there’s
not— I don’t think there’s a clear frontrunner—
Jenny:​ Unless there is.
Kristin:​ Unless there is, and the more we thought, the more we realized that—
Jenny:​ We followed the clues.
Kristin:​ We followed the clues—


Jenny:​ And discovered, we really put it together.
Kristin:​ That we’d like to give the Sexual Tension Award to Angel and his
leatherbound clues notebook.
[DETECTIVE ANGEL jingle plays]
Detective Angel!
Jenny:​ Oh, his des indices notebook?
Kristin:​ Yes, that’s correct Jenny. That detective Angel, it’s sort of a mini jingle, it’s
like a wisp of a jingle.
Jenny: ​It’s a fraction of a jingle.
Kristin:​ Yes, and we’re gonna send that to all of our patrons so if you’re a patron
and you didn’t know until now that what you needed was—
Jenny:​ A detective Angel.
Kristin:​ [singing] Detective Angel! It’s good, it’s really nice Jenny.
Jenny:​ Well, thank you! thank you very much.
Kristin:​ Jenny just whipped that up in moments.
Jenny:​ Out of thin air!
Kristin:​ Yeah, she said I don’t know if I have time to— wait a second...
Jenny: ​bu-du-du-rang!
Kristin:​ She thwanged on her guitar with a cackle and off she went to the races.
Anyhow, congratulations to Angel and his des indices notebook.
Jenny:​ And your leather notebook, such an exciting time for the two of them.
Kristin:​ Yes, trophy’s in the mail, thank you very much and I think we’re rounding
the bend here.
Jenny:​ Yes, I think that’s about it. I think it’s time for me to tell you that I’m Jenny
Owen Youngs.


Kristin:​ Yeah, if you haven’t figured it out by now—
Jenny:​ Get hip to the fact that I am Jenny Owen Youngs and when I’m not making
this podcast I’m making songs. You can hear some of them at
jennyowenyoungs.com/buffering where I have curated a special little playlist of
some of my works for you. Also you can give me a shout on twitter any old time
@jennyowenyoungs.
Kristin:​ I was whispering through your thing, ‘cause I was gonna say that’s so nice
that you made a little playlist for everyone.
Jenny:​ Ah! Thank you!
Kristin:​ Isn’t that friendly of you?
Jenny:​ It was my pleasure.
Kristin:​ You can find out more about me at my website kristinnoeline.com, that’s
k-r-i-s-t-i-n-n-o-e-l-i-n-e. It’s also the spelling of my twitter handle and my
instagram handle. So you can go to all of those places or any of those places or
none of those places if you don’t like me. I understand, you can’t like everybody.
You can also learn about my work with the LGBTQ community at
everyoneisgay.com and mykidisgay.com.
Jenny:​ Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on instagram, twitter and facebook
@bufferingcast and you can always drop us an email at
bufferingthevampireslayer.com@gmail.com​.
Kristin:​ Yeah and if you’re a patron you better get those emails in to us now ‘cause
we’re gonna be doing a mailbag very soon.
Jenny:​ Imminently.
Kristin:​ Just so you know, when we do the mailbags even if you’re not a patron. If
we read your email or we answer your question we email you the link to the patron
only mailbag so that you don’t have to worry that we’ve read your email and the
only way you can access is by donating money to us. If we read your email you will
get a link to the episode as well. And I think that brings us to how you can support
us.
Jenny:​ Oh yes.


Kristin:​ Which is in a few ways, you can of course rate and review us on itunes,
many of you have and we would appreciate even more of you doing so because it
helps people find the podcast and helps us all stay together as a little community
over her, as a big community over here, we’re getting bigger and bigger! And you
can also of course go to our patreon page as we’ve mentioned. All of that can be
found on our website bufferingthevampireslayer.com.
You can buy our merch and a way to support Times Up, an organization bringing
awareness to a lot of the sexual assault, sexual abuse, sexual harassment
happening across the world is by buying one of our handwritten lyric sheets. You
can find those at bufferingthevampireslayer.com/greatergood. We have added five
this week and we will be donating the entirety of those proceeds to Times Up in
Eliza Dushku’s name.
Jenny:​ Thank you for listening, you are beautiful, we care about you.
Kristin:​ Oh, I have one more thing to say.
Jenny:​ [laughs] I wasn’t even done with my compliments, go on.
Kristin:​ I’m sorry, I’m sorry I was so afraid you were gonna say “until next time”
and then I wouldn’t be able to take us back ever again. But what we didn’t mention
is that in writing the song this week, as I mentioned at the top of the episode, we
had recorded ​Consequences t​ he podcast before we read Eliza’s story, before Eliza
came forward with her story.
But we hadn’t started the song yet and so when we wrote the song we wrote it for
the episode. That was the first thing, but as we wrote it Jenny and I had
conversations about keeping the language a little bit looser so that not only would it
be applicable to the episode but that it might be applicable to what many of us are
all going through right now.
Many of us are seeing other people come forward with their stories, many of us are
seeing people not be believed when they share their stories. There’s a lot
happening so you can listen to this song a couple of ways as is the case with any
song. But know that when we went into this one we definitely had that heavy on
our minds. It influenced the lyric choices and a lot else.
Jenny:​ Absolutely.
Kristin:​ Okay now you may say what you were gonna say Jenny, I’m so sorry.


Jenny:​ I actually was done with my compliments [Kristin laughs] but I wasn’t done
with saying till next time!
Jenny and Kristin:​ Awwwwoooooooooooo!!!!
Jenny:​ [singing] Detective Angel!
[Kristin laughs]
[Jenny performing “Consequences,” off the album “Songs from Season Three” by
Buffering the Vampire Slayer]

Nobody can tell you what to do
But I don’t wanna watch the deeper darker get ahold of you
Dodge it for a while, you’ll still get bit
It’s only gonna eat you up if you hold onto it
Hard is hard and right is right
You can’t just bury it inside
Sometimes the truth will be the demon that you fight
Cause hard is hard and right is right
Maybe it’s the very hardest thing
Trying to understand the truth, and then who you can trust with it
I know that the world we live in now
Is made to make you feel like you can’t speak up anyhow
Hard is hard and right is right
You can’t just bury it inside
Sometimes the truth will be the demon that you fight
Cause hard is hard and right is right
Feeling like you’re out here on your own
But everything you’re facing, you don’t have to face alone
Ready for whatever you need me to do
Even if it’s only just to listen and believe you
Hard is hard and right is right
I’m your partner in this fight
We won’t give up on you, you’re strong and full of light
Cause hard is hard and right is right

