Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 2.05: Reptile Boy

[Theme Song]
[Crowd cheering and clapping]
Jenny:​ Hello!
Kristin:​ Wow. Wow, wow, wow. You know what’s really fun? Is doing a
podcast about a show that so many people are already excited about.
[Audience laughs] You know? The first few chords and everybody goes
crazy, and then we feel really famous. [Audience laughs] But really it’s
because everyone loves Buffy. Hi!
Jenny:​ Yes, hey. Hello.
Kristin:​ Do we have to read our professional introductions?
Jenny:​ [stuffy voice] Hmm, hum, yes, quite.
Kristin:​ Okay, great.
Jenny:​ Welcome to​ Buffering the Vampire Slayer​, a podcast where we’re
watching and discussing every episode of ​Buffy the Vampire Slayer​ one at a
time. I am Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin:​ And I’m Kristin Russo, and today, we’re discussing Season 2
Episode 5, “Reptile Boy.” Stay tuned at the end of this podcast every week
for an original song by us recapping the ​Buffy ​episode we’re discussing.
Jenny: ​“Reptile Boy” was written and directed by David Greenwalt! And it
originally aired October 13th, 1997!
Kristin:​ Jenny loves David Greenwalt so much. I’ve never heard her say just
David Greenwalt. It’s always David Greenwalt! You know? [Audience laughs]
Great. So usually – if you listen to the podcast, you know that usually I read
the IMDB summary, but I was so moved today by the episode, ‘cause I


didn’t really remember what it was about from my first viewing, that I wrote
my own summary. [Clears throat] “In this episode, a bunch of white men
with rich dads –” [Audience laughs] “– keep women in the basement of their
private club, and eventually kill them to maintain their own wealth and
power.” [Audience laughs and cheers] “They also answer to a reptile.” So,
this doesn’t have any relevance to our current state –
Jenny:​ Doesn’t remind me of anything!
Kristin:​ Of being at all! Yeah. Last week, we asked you all if we should talk
about politics or not talk about politics, and the responses were really
interesting. Especially at first, ‘cause at first, all of the emails were like, “No,
this is my safe space, this is my escape,” and everyone on Twitter was like,
“POLITICS!” [Audience laughs]
Jenny:​ But all the people who emailed us and were, like, “No, this is a safe
space,” all of them said first, “I really hesitate to tell you guys what to do,
because it’s your podcast. However,” dot-dot-dot. Just really sweet.
Kristin:​ Yeah, everyone is very – everyone is very nice. So we’re just gonna
keep doing what we were doing, which is mostly keeping this as a escapist
place, but also calling things out, like the theme of this episode, and tying it
into what’s going on in the world around us. Great. Oh my gosh, hi
everyone!
Audience:​ Hi!
Jenny: ​Hello!
Kristin:​ This is so weird. We’ve never done a live episode before, so
normally I would just entirely talk to you, but then I’m panicking about the
people inside the microphone, I’m like, “Will they know what I’m talking
about?” [Audience laughs]
Jenny:​ Yeah, the people inside the microphone.
Kristin:​ I don’t even know how many people are in there. You know?
[laughter]


Jenny:​ Me, neither.
Kristin:​ Anyhow, so let’s talk about this episode, shall we? Oh, I loved this
episode. We try to say “the patriarchy” once. I promise you, we’re going to
say “the patriarchy,” like, 450,000 times tonight –
Jenny:​ A few times. A couple times.
Kristin:​ Great. Great, great, great. The first thing that I would like to talk
about is the hair braiding that happens right at the start. Jenny – we
watched it twice ​today​, and Jenny did not notice this.
Jenny:​ Well, there’s a lot of plot being narrated while what you’re about to
talk about is going on.
Kristin:​ That’s true. Yeah, I was paying mostly attention to the fact that, on
Xander’s side of Willow’s head, there was a perfect French braid. [Audience
laughs] And Buffy, like, the whole time, Buffy just, like, flimsily... like, she
didn’t do anything with the hair! So that’s all, I didn’t have a further
commentary, I just thought it was really interesting. That’s all I have to say.
Jenny:​ Hard agree.
Kristin:​ Right? Right? And the other pre-credits thing that I loved was the
chase scene. I thought it was just really, really well done. I felt out of
breath, like after it was – you know? It was solid.
Jenny:​ It was a great chase scene. Do you buy those shoes with that outfit,
though?
Kristin:​ No. I kind of didn’t – I don’t really understand the origin of the
outfit, ‘cause, like, later we find out what’s happening. And it doesn’t seem
like – it seems like she would’ve either had full attire and sneakers – you
know what I mean? It didn’t make sense to me, no.
Jenny:​ Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin:​ But it did – it looked nice! The white sneakers with the slip, I think.
[laughter] I dunno! Kate Leth couldn’t make it tonight –


Jenny:​ So we’re lost.
Kristin:​ She would’ve had a lot to say about so many things in this episode.
Jenny:​ Can I just say that Richard Anderson is a fucking J.C. Penny model?
Kristin:​ Oh, yes.
Jenny:​ That hair?
Kristin:​ Yes. Richard Anderson, in case you’re wondering, is the Male
Offender Number One. [Audience laughs] I dunno!
Jenny:​ I don’t know if we wanna keep track of numbers. [Audience laughs]
In this episode, specifically.
Kristin:​ Cool. So that’s my pre-credits – did you have anything from before
the credits that you wanted to talk about? I just took them all. Great! Well, I
have another one for after the credits. Also, I don’t mean to call you out,
you’re sitting right in front of me, but you’re wearing – the person right in
front of me, to those of you inside the microphone, is wearing a shirt with a
cat on it that looks like the cat shirt that Buffy wears.
Audience member:​ She made it. It is. It’s exactly that.
Kristin:​ [Gasp] No!
Audience member:​ And it’s copywritten! [Audience claps]
Jenny:​ Could you – would you mind – is this too much? Would you mind
rising for the National Anthem? [Audience applauds] Praise to you.
Kristin:​ We will have to get a picture of all of us with your cat shirt.
[Audience laughs] Everyone! Everyone. Everyone. I didn’t bring my selfie
stick, but I think we can do it. Cool. So, thank you for that. I picked two
sound clips for tonight, one of which I’m gonna play now. [Clicking sound]
Ooh, can you tell? Is that from me?


Jenny:​ It’s happening.
Kristin:​ It’s one of my favorite parts about this whole episode. It happens
many times, but I just played one, or I just recorded one.
[Clip from ​Buffy the Vampire Slayer​, “Reptile Boy”]
Cordelia:​ [Fake laughter]
[Audience laughs]
Kristin:​ Cool, so yeah, that’s Cordelia laughing. This is a really strong
Cordelia episode. Can we just hear it for Cordelia in this episode? [Audience
cheers and yells] It’s really – I think I internalize a lot about the characters,
because when everybody cheered for Buffy, I felt like they were cheering for
me, and when you all just clapped for Cordelia, I was like, that’s also for me.
It’s not for me!
Jenny:​ Who am I?
Kristin:​ No, I mean, you can have your own journey. I’m just saying what’s
going on in my head.
Jenny:​ Also, like, Cordelia’s sort of business casual, orthodontist office
receptionist – [Audience laughs] – sweater vest, blue skirt, shirt thing. I just
want you to know, in front of all these people, when I was in high school,
and I was like, “What is a girl? Like, how can I be a girl, but like, feel...
okay?” Exactly like that! That was like my dream outf – I was like, “If only I
could acquire a sweater vest, a button down shirt, and that skirt!” [Audience
laughs]
Kristin:​ In high school?
Jenny:​ Yeah, I was like, that’s the kind of girl I could be!
Kristin:​ Wow. But you just never got the sweater vest.
Jenny:​ Well, I got sweater vests. But they were more like Xander sweater
vests. [Audience laughs]


Kristin:​ Ah, I see. And then you just jumped right from there to the
schoolgirl outfits that you played your shows in.
Jenny:​ Yeah, I…
Audience member:​ Woo!
Jenny:​ Okay, so moving swiftly forward!
Kristin:​ They’re public schoolgirl outfits. They’re – you know.
Jenny:​ Public schoolgirl outfits? So!
Kristin:​ Cool, so let’s talk about the relationship between Giles and Buffy in
this episode. I really do wanna talk about it, though, for a second.
Jenny:​ Oh my god, yeah, totally.
Kristin:​ ‘Cause this is –
Jenny:​ It’s like, fuck off, Dad.
Kristin:​ Yeah! This is, like, a major “fuck you, Dad” episode. And I think it’s
really well done! Buffy’s like, “Fuck you, Dad,” and Giles is like, tapping his
watch, and – you know? Getting all mad and Giles-y, which I love.
Jenny:​ Well, because [through gritted teeth] he’s trying to protect her!
‘Cause he knows what she’s up against! [Audience laughs]
Kristin:​ Yeah, no, I... you really got the subplot of the show!
Jenny:​ I’m just saying.
Kristin:​ Great, great. Well, we’re about to call our very first guest up. I’m so
excited for the human beings that are gonna be taking the stage with us
tonight. But before we get there, there’s one more thing I wanna talk about,
which is the scene between Angel and Buffy in the grave... yard?


Jenny:​ [laughs loudly]
Kristin:​ What is it? Is it a graveyard or a cemetery? I know we established
this, but I forget every time.
Jenny:​ I think it’s a cemetery. ‘Cause we don’t see a church attached to it.
Kristin:​ Because it is not attached to a church… cemetery. Anyhow, Angel is
like, “There’s blood on it.” Like – [Audience laughs] it’s his first –
Jenny:​ No hello.
Kristin:​ No! He just once again appears out of nowhere. “There’s blood on
it.” And then they – of course, they finally address the age difference
between them. [broody voice] “You’re 16, I’m 241.”
Jenny:​ [broody voice] “If we date, one thing’s gonna lead to another.” What
exactly – my question is, what is he worried – what does he not think is,
like, clear in Buffy’s mind about what would happen next? They’re gonna
bone!
Kristin:​ Yeah! I mean, he says it’s going to get out of control. [laughter]
Out of control.
Jenny:​ Is that, like, a threat, or like, a promise…? [Audience laughs] It
sounded like a promise to me.
Kristin:​ It did, it did. And then the last thing I will quote from this scene is
Buffy’s line, where she’s like, [dramatic voice] “When you kiss me, I want to
die!” [Audience laughs] And then she runs away! I love it so much. Great,
Chris, wanna come hang out with us?
Jenny:​ Wait, you stay right there. ‘Cause I have to read something to you.
Really about you.
Kristin:​ Can I just tell one short anec... dote? How do you say that?
Anecdote? Live is hard, I can’t cut that out from your brains ever. We had,
like, twenty minutes before we left the house today, and I was like, “Jenny,
wanna just write the bios real quick?” And, like, minutes were passing and


passing, and more minutes were passing. And I was like, “Are you done?”
And she was like, “No!” She spent so much time on writing these bios, that I
want everyone to be very proud of all of them.
Jenny:​ I just – all our guests are creative people, and describing creative
work is difficult, and what if I say a thing that, like, is a pet peeve of theirs
in the way that, like, they’re being describe – like, it would just crush my
soul. [dramatic voice] It would make me want to die! [Audience laughs] So,
our first guest self-identifies as a former baby, current songwriter, and
future corpse. His latest solo album ​Can’t Die​ is out now on Side One
Dummy Records. He’s one half of Antarctigo Vespucci. He’s the cohost of
“Back to the Island,” a non-sequential ​Lost​ rewatch podcast, and he cohosts
America’s premier and ​only​ chicken wings and airplanes podcast,
“Wingnuts,” which was conceptualized when someone was super high. He’s
also my doppelganger, please welcome to the stage Chris Farren!
[Applause]
Kristin:​ Hi, welcome, great to see you.
Chris:​ Wow, here we are. Hi.
Kristin:​ Yeah, we’re here.
Chris:​ Thanks for having me.
Jenny:​ Thanks for being here.
Kristin:​ Can you tell which one is Jenny and which one is Chris?
Jenny:​ Hold really still. [Audience laughs] I have a much larger head than
you, I think.
Chris:​ Thank you. [laughter]
Jenny:​ Thank ​you​.
Kristin:​ So, Chris, not to reveal your secrets the moment that you step foot
on stage, but Chris has never seen an episode except for this one.


Chris:​ I like it! I like it! I like it! Oh, it’s great. I wrote some notes…
[Audience laughs]
Kristin:​ Oh, great. Great. Great, great, great.
[laughter]
Jenny:​ Oh my god. What’d you write those notes on?
Chris: ​It was the only piece of paper I could find.
Kristin:​ For those of you listening at home, Chris has unfolded a piece of
paper revealing his headshot on one side, notes on the other.
Chris:​ I just grabbed whatever I could!
Jenny:​ Mm hmm.
Kristin:​ Okay, well –
Chris:​ I can wait on the notes, I don’t know.
Kristin:​ No, no, please, please, please let us know what some of your notes
are, I would like –
Jenny:​ [laughing] Oh my god!
Chris:​ I accidentally wrote “Chandler” when I meant “Xander” a bunch?
[Audience laughs]
Kristin:​ Oh, wow!
Jenny:​ That is – you’re not far off!
Chris:​ Similar characters. They’re pretty similar. And then I was glad that
you guys said “braids,” because I wrote down, “Chandler’s pretending to be
doing pigtails to her.” [Audience laughs] Which is braid – braiding.


Kristin:​ Which is braiding, yeah. But you were close!
Jenny:​ Same diff.
Chris:​ Great.
Kristin:​ I think we should go down your notes.
Chris:​ Okay, sure!
Kristin:​ I think it’s gonna be good for everyone.
Chris:​ “Cordelia is reading a magazine called ‘Teen Time.’” [Jenny laughs] Is
that a popular magazine in this universe?
Kristin:​ I didn’t even notice that!
Chris:​ Just “Teen Time.”
Kristin:​ “Teen Time,” yeah.
Chris:​ I was homeschooled, so I don’t know…
Jenny:​ What the kids were reading?
Chris:​ What the kids were reading.
Kristin:​ So you’ve never heard of “Teen Time” is what you’re saying. Wow.
Chris:​ Right.
Jenny:​ Neither have I.
Chris:​ Oh, okay.
Kristin:​ No, yeah, me either.
Chris:​ So it’s not real.


Kristin:​ No.
Chris: ​I didn’t think so. “Is the library always closed? Has anyone ever been
in the library except for Buffy?” [laughter]
Jenny:​ Amazing question! Amazing question.
Kristin:​ Yeah, it’s a great – go ahead, Jenny.
Jenny:​ It seems to be exclusively for the purpose of weapons training?
[Audience laughs] Late-night research meetings, and occasionally, when
they need to introduce a new character, they’ll bring them into the library,
so everyone’s like, “Oh, we really gotta notice this person, because no one
else has ever been in the library.”
Kristin:​ Yeah. There’s one episode in Season 1 where they, like, pan on a
sign that says “Library Closed” to, like, suggest that that’s why no one’s in
it, but then never again, so –
Jenny:​ Never again.
Kristin:​ Yeah. Or at least never again that I remember. So, yeah, it’s just
Sunnydale, they don’t like the library.
Chris:​ Wow. And that guy’s the boss of the library, essentially? [Audience
laughs]
Jenny:​ Well, he’s the high school librarian, but he’s also –
Chris:​ Librarian, yes! Yeah, yeah, yeah. Great.
Jenny:​ He’s also Buffy’s watcher, which is like, a – it’s sort of like – well, it’s
a job. But it’s also sort of a calling, you know? And he’s employed by the
Watchers’ Council in England. They create watchers who are all assigned to
potential slayers.
Chris:​ Cool.
Jenny:​ And then when a slayer is called, then that – the corresponding


watcher is doled out.
Kristin:​ Do you think that they’re all –
Chris:​ Thank you. [Jenny laughs]
Kristin:​ Do you think that they’re all librarians and watchers? Like, do you
think that Giles had to learn a librarian, or do they all –
Chris:​ That’s like their front.
Kristin:​ Right, or, like, do some of them have to learn to be cooks? You
know?
Jenny:​ Do you feel like he really knows much about librarian-ing? ‘Cause I
feel like he just is English, and everybody’s like, “I buy it.” [Audience laughs]
Kristin:​ Yeah…
Jenny:​ You know?
Kristin:​ That’s true, it worked on me! I was like, “He’s great at being a
librarian!”
Jenny:​ Have you ever seen him interact with the Dewey Decimal System?
He’s always just like, “It’s over in the bloodletting section.” [laughter] Like,
that’s not how libraries are organized, sir. In America.
Kristin:​ It’s true, it’s true. Okay, what else you got? This is great. This is
going as well as I hoped it would go.
Chris:​ Great, great. Okay, so then there’s a party scene, and of course, I’ve
been to a party before. But is this what parties are like? [Audience laughs]
Jenny:​ Have you ever been to a frat party?
Chris:​ Uh... probably not. I would guess no.
Jenny:​ You would remember, probably!


Chris:​ Yeah. No.
Kristin:​ Have ​you​ ever been to a frat party, Jenny?
Jenny:​ I never have been. My college didn’t have frats.
Kristin:​ Oh, right, you went to an artsy school with no frats. SUNY
Purchase, for the record.
Chris:​ Nice.
Kristin:​ I went to a SUNY, too. SUNY Binghamton but –
Jenny:​ But your SUNY had frats.
Kristin:​ Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. I went to a lot of frat parties, and nobody wore
ties. It was not that kind of a frat party. Also, no one slow danced, ever. I
was very confused about that.
Chris:​ Yeah, I wrote down – I was curious about that, too. And was there
shrimp?
Kristin:​ Shrimp? No shrimp. No shrimp.
Jenny:​ [laughing] “Immediately distracted by shrimp,” is the note.
[Audience laughs]
Chris:​ Yeah, when Chandler got to the party [audience laughs], he was –
first of all, he was dressed with a red polo shirt and khaki pants, which,
Target.
Jenny:​ Yeah, he works at Target, obviously, or he’s your dad.
Chris: ​Right. And then he was there to protect Buffy, I guess, but then
somebody walked by with a plate of shrimp, and he was like, “Ooh, shrimp!”
Jenny:​ “Who’s Buffy?”


Chris:​ Yeah, exactly.
Kristin:​ Yeah, Xander does – like, prep dress was really funny for me. That
was very enjoyable for me. Oh, you don’t know Xander – Chandler – very
well.
Chris:​ Sure, yeah, thank you.
Kristin:​ But his – what he thought a frat guy would wear to a party, I really
liked. The red – the Target costume. What do you call it? Uniform.
Chris:​ Target costume! [laughter] When I was a little boy, I was familiar
with ​Buffy​. I don’t think I watched it, but I knew there was a character
named Xander on it. And I told all my friends to call me Xander, ‘cause I
thought it was a cooler name than Chris.
Kristin:​ Did they?
Chris:​ No!
[Audience laughs]
Kristin:​ How old were you when you attempted this name change?
Chris:​ Twelve? Ten?
Kristin:​ Ten, and you were like, “Call me Xander,” and they were like, “No,”
and it ended, or did you, like –
Chris:​ They would probably be like, “Chris,” and I’d be like, “Xander, but…”
[Audience laughs] “It’s fine.”
Kristin:​ It’s good.
Chris:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ Did we answer all your questions, or…?
Chris:​ No, I have a few more. School newsletter is apparently, in this world,


the only place to find out if a person is a missing person or not.
Jenny:​ Well, I feel like they didn’t know who she was. They just knew where
she went to school, right? ‘Cause the bracelet was like “E-N-T,” and they
were like, oh, Kent. Kent is a prep school.
Kristin:​ Oh, right, they weren’t looking up did somebody –
Jenny:​ [yelling] Also, the missing girl who’s chained up in the basement –
sorry. [normal volume] The missing girl who’s chained up in the basement
with Buffy and Cordelia, her last name is also Anderson, the same as Richard
Anderson, the J.C. Penny model from the first chase scene.
Kristin:​ Male Offender Number One.
Jenny:​ Are they brother and sister? Is that the gross vibe? Because the
patriarchy! He doesn’t even care about his sister?! He’s like, “I need more
reptile demon money for my coffers?” Okay.
Kristin:​ Yeah. I don’t know that anyone can answer that question for you,
but it’s a creepy question.
Jenny:​ Please go on.
Kristin:​ So, also, Chris, generally speaking, Sunnydale and neighboring
towns don’t operate with the same parameters that most towns do.
Chris:​ Right.
Kristin:​ People die and nobody calls the cops, things aren’t in the papers –
Chris:​ Right, yeah.
Kristin:​ Just generally –
Chris:​ Yeah, that was a question I had.
Kristin:​ Because it’s too much. They live on a hellmouth, and so, you know,
they just can’t – it’s too much to do all the –


Jenny:​ They’re just people, you know?
Chris:​ A hellmouth is a portal to hell?
Kristin:​ Yes.
Jenny:​ To hell. Or to hell​s​.
Chris:​ Um, I wrote down, “The illuminati,” obviously.
[Audience laughs]
Kristin:​ Of course, of course.
Chris:​ When they kicked Xander out of the party, he said, “Party’s over, jerk
water.” And I’ve never heard anybody say that before. [laughter] “Jerk
water.”
Kristin:​ I didn’t even hear that.
Chris:​ It’s gross.
Jenny:​ Are you gonna adopt that? Are you gonna –
Chris:​ No, it’s gross!
Jenny:​ You know what I would call – if I had to guess what’s jerk water? I
would say, like, probably milk. Milk is jerk water.
Chris:​ No, no, no. Don’t speak about milk like that.
Kristin:​ Oh, good call. You see, the reason that Jenny is saying that is
because Chris –
Chris:​ Everybody loves milk.
Kristin:​ No.


Chris:​ Everybody loves milk! Everybody loves milk.
Kristin:​ Chris, Chris, Chris –
Chris:​ Everybody here’s gonna pretend like they think milk is gross to drink
every night.
Jenny:​ [incredulous] At night?!
Kristin:​ Chris –
Chris:​ Night milk!
Jenny:​ [shouts] No!
Kristin:​ Chris drinks a glass of milk every day. It’s very upsetting to both
Jenny and myself. Is it upsetting to anyone in this room?
Chris: ​No.
Audience:​ Yes!
Chris:​ I heard a couple no’s out there!
Jenny:​ He also has started sending me pictures of his empty milk glass after
he finishes.
[Audience laughs]
Kristin:​ Yeah, the emoji updates were not good for our collective friendship
at all. Yeah. Also, wore his milk pin today.
Jenny:​ To spite me.
Kristin:​ Yeah, to spite you.
Chris:​ Milk rocks.
Jenny:​ Cool, thanks.


Kristin:​ Great, great, great. Wait, I have a question for you. So I played
that Cordelia laugh earlier, because I love it, and I love her fake laugh, and I
thought something fun that we could do tonight is just ask each of our
guests – heads up to the two of you incoming – to do your best fake laugh.
If you could – I would just like to know what it sounds like.
Chris:​ Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin:​ Chris Farren’s fake laugh.
Chris:​ Okay. [flatly] Ah ha HA ha ha!
[Audience laughs]
Jenny:​ It’s really good.
Kristin:​ Really, really good. Really fantastic.
Jenny:​ Oh, wow.
Chris:​ Great.
Jenny:​ I bought it.
Kristin:​ This has been a joy.
Jenny:​ A treasure in my heart!
Kristin:​ A real treasure.
Chris:​ Thank you so much.
Jenny:​ Thank ​you​ so much!
Kristin:​ And it’s really a once in a lifetime opportunity, ‘cause now you know
something about the series – we can never do this again.
Jenny:​ This is the first day of the rest of your life.


Chris:​ So you’re saying I’m never gonna be back on the podcast again.
[Audience laughs]
Kristin:​ Yeah, that’s –
Jenny:​ Never!
Chris: ​Alright, fine! Wow! Great!
Kristin:​ Thank you, Chris Farren!
Jenny:​ Yeah, everybody give it up for Chris! [Applause] Oh my god.
Kristin:​ Are you gonna stay over there now?
Jenny:​ Yeah. Yes.
Kristin:​ Great. Fine. Fine. That’s fine. You don’t have to be here. Also, don’t
worry. Chris left his headshot.
Jenny:​ I’ll take that.
Kristin:​ Cool! So before we bring up our next geft – guest – geft. There are
a few other things that I wanna talk about, I don’t about you.
Jenny:​ Yes.
Kristin:​ First of all, I would just like to give a shout out to Cordelia’s line,
“It’s like we’re sisters with really different hair!” [Audience laughs]
Jenny:​ A plus.
Kristin:​ Jenny, would you like to – you can take a point.
Jenny:​ I’d like to take a point. Ritual cutting? Shirtless hunks? Chanting?
This is a frat for me! [laughter] This is my frat. I’m ready to pledge!


Kristin:​ I take severe issue with using our beloved term “hunk” on – I
understand, visual hunks. But I revoke their –
Jenny:​ Oh, ‘cause they’re evil?
Kristin:​ They’re evil!
Jenny:​ Because of the patriarchy? Patriarchy is taking hunks away from ​me.
Kristin:​ I know. The patriarchy takes so many hunks.
Jenny:​ This is bad, this is the last straw, for sure.
Kristin:​ [laughs] I’m so sorry, I don’t want it to be this way.
Jenny:​ Me, too.
Kristin:​ But together we will fight it, you know?
Jenny:​ Okay.
Kristin:​ Yeah, one day, we might find a hunk. [Audience laughs] Also, Buffy
lies to Giles. That’s a big deal, right? Yeah. It’s just underlining the dad –
Jenny:​ Yeah, you ever lie to your dad?
Kristin:​ Everyone just got so nervous! I mean, maybe, but am I gonna be
on the podcast? Are you gonna tell my dad?
Jenny:​ I was just asking ​you​, have you ever lied to your dad?
Kristin:​ So my diversion tactic didn’t work?
Jenny:​ No.
Kristin:​ Yeah, I mean, not – I don’t remember lying directly to only my dad.
But I definitely have lied to my parents so many times in my life. I used to
be only allowed to wear shorts to school when it was sixty degrees or
warmer. C’mon, guys! But I would wear –


Jenny:​ That sounds pretty reasonable. [Audience laughs]
Kristin:​ Fine, whatever. But I really liked wearing shorts, so I would wear –
I would put my shorts on and then I would put my jeans on. And then, when
I would get on the bus, I would take my jeans off, wear my shorts all day at
school, and then put my jeans back on. And one day my mom picked me up
from the bus stop unexpectedly, unannounced, and was like, “We’re going to
the mall, because you need to try on clothes.” And I was like, “Oh, fuck!”
‘Cause I had the double situation, and, like, she was gonna be all in the
dressing – anyway, she found out, I got in big trouble. That’s my whole
story. Also, I lied about having, like, things in my room, like alcohol and
marijuana, cigarettes…
Jenny:​ Oh, yeah, you were holding them for a friend.
Kristin:​ I went to see Maya Angelou speak. [Audience laughs] Like, my
parents should probably get off my back! You know? I was going to do good
shit! And then I came home, and they were like, “We found something in
your room.” But they didn’t say what, and I had, like, beer under the
headboard and weed in one drawer, and then cigarettes somewhere else,
and I somehow got through it! They had found the weed. [Jenny laughs]
And then I had to go to a school counselor.
Jenny:​ Wow.
Kristin:​ It’s fine! Did you ever lie to your –
Jenny:​ All the time.
Kristin:​ Did you ever lie to your dad?
Jenny:​ All the time. Well, my dad wasn’t really, like, around to lie to. I
mean, I saw him on weekends. Like, we didn’t really spend enough time
together for me to really, like, get to a point where I would need to lie, you
know? But like, parents? Yes. Yes! Of course!
Kristin:​ But you’re not gonna tell a story?


Jenny:​ Just like, “Oh, bye, have a great weekend away, I will sit in the
house and not get a keg and not have people ov –” Yeah!
Kristin:​ Did you get a keg in your own house?!
Jenny:​ Yeah!
Kristin:​ Wow! I was never able to pull it off.
Jenny:​ No, but, like, underage drinking is, like, really not cool, and, like,
don’t do that, and also lying to your parents is, like, really not cool.
Kristin:​ Yeah. And also, weed is not – weed is cool. [Audience laughs] I
don’t smoke weed, ‘cause I can’t, my brain is not built for it.
Jenny:​ But it seems great!
Kristin:​ But it seems awesome, yeah.
Jenny:​ People love it!
Kristin:​ I found out that I was having – I thought that weed was horrible.
Like, as a teenager, it would always make me feel horrible, and then later in
life, I had anxiety attacks and realized that when I was younger, I was just
having – like, I would smoke weed and it would give me an anxiety attack.
And no one – that’s why everyone else was having so much fun! They
weren’t feeling what I was feeling! It was a whole thing. It’s okay, guys,
anxiety – I’m okay! [laughter] I’m alright! Everyone’s like, “oh, it got really
real in here really fast.” It’s okay. Weed is cool, anxiety attacks are
manageable, everything’s fine. Great. Oh.
Oh, something really fun is about to happen. So, Cordelia drives in this.
Cordelia, I think, has had a different car every time she’s driven on this
show, and I assume it’s because she crashes the car every time and
somehow gets a new one. And also, her license plate is “Queen C.” Queen C!
I made Jenny pause it ‘cause I had to say “Queen C” like, really loud a lot of
times in a row, and I didn’t wanna miss any of the episode. So without
further ado, for our beloved Cordelia, we’re going to try to play the Cordelia
jingle live.


[Audience gasps and cheers]
Jenny:​ Won’t you please join us, if you are so compelled... in lifting our
voices... to praise our queen. Are you ready to do the thing?
Kristin:​ Yeah, yes, I am.
Jenny:​ Okay, I’m gonna fade it in.
[Music starts]
Jenny: ​That’s great. It’s really working.
[Jenny performs the Cordelia jingle]
Jenny: ​Cordelia,
I love you, Cordelia
You’re perfect, Cordelia
[Audience cheers]
Jenny:​ That went great!
Kristin:​ That went great. That went great. Thank you, Chris, for loaning us
your –
Jenny:​ Yeah, thanks a lot, Chris.
Kristin:​ What is it called?
Jenny:​ It’s called a Q-cord.
Kristin:​ A Q-cord.
Jenny:​ “Loan,” ha!
Kristin:​ What?


Jenny:​ What?
Kristin:​ What happened? What just happened? [Audience laughs]
Jenny:​ Nothing.
Kristin:​ Okay, cool.
Jenny:​ Cool, cool, cool.
Kristin:​ Okay, great. Ahem. Great. Do you have anything – I have one more
thing before we call up our next guest –
Jenny:​ Oh, hit it! Please, please.
Kristin:​ Which is one note that I took while watching, which is, “Men do
such a good job playing men in this episode!” [Jenny and audience laugh]
Really…
Jenny:​ Yeah!
Kristin:​ You know? They just really nail it! So on that note, ooh, I get to
read your beautiful bio that you wrote. On that note, our next guest is a
comedian, writer, and actor. She’s written for ​Autostraddle​, ​Jezebel,
Huffington Post​, ​Billy on the Street, The Collective​, and ​The Experiment​, to
name a few. She is a recurring character on Season 2 of Amazon’s
Emmy-winning series ​Transparent​ and co-hosts two podcasts: “Brand New
Podcast” and “Hamilton: The Podcast.” I know, right? Everyone’s very
impressed. ​Suicide Kale,​ her first feature film, has won numerous awards,
including the Audience Award for First U.S. Narrative Feature at Outfest. She
recently released an EP called “Likes Me,” and is totally, 100% in a serious
thruple with me and Jenny. [Audience laughs] Please welcome to the stage
Brittani Nichols!
Jenny:​ Yes!
[Audience cheers]
Kristin:​ Hi, Brittani.


Brittani:​ ‘Sup. [Audience laughs]
Kristin:​ Here we are, back together again!
Brittani:​ Yeah, I haven’t seen you guys in awhile.
Kristin:​ Yeah, I know, it’s been a minute.
Jenny:​ Why have you been avoiding... us? [Audience laughs]
Brittani:​ You guys, we’re supposed to save this for thruple’s therapy.
[Audience laughs]
Jenny:​ Did you say “thruple’s camp” or “thruple’s counseling”?
Brittani:​ Therapy, therapy. Thruple’s therapy.
Jenny:​ Nothing even close, like, letters-wise. I’ll go. I’ll just –
Kristin:​ Do you have notes, too?
Brittani:​ Yeah, I do.
Kristin:​ Wow, this is great! Everyone’s so prepared! Gaby’s in the audience,
so panicked. “I do not have notes, I have no notes.”
Brittani:​ But you know, we can start wherever you guys wanna start.
Kristin:​ I mean, I was just gonna ask a very general question, which was
what you thought of this ep – do you have a favorite part of this episode?
Brittani:​ Oh, man. It had – it was the grave – first of all, there’s a
difference between a graveyard and a cemetery? I must’ve –
Kristin:​ Yeah…
Brittani:​ I’m sorry that I missed that. I feel like you all mentioned it in an
episode, and that’s why you guys know? Someone called you out? Someone


corrected you?
Kristin:​ No, Jenny knew. Jenny knew.
Brittani:​ Oh, you just knew that off... [Audience laughs] alright.
Jenny:​ You know… I like what I like, and I have my priorities, and, like,
yeah. But also, I could be wrong. It’s possible we just haven’t gotten the
email yet, that’s like, “Actually…” You know?
Kristin:​ We would have ​definitely ​gotten that email.
Brittani:​ Is that how you think you fix glasses? [Audience laughs]
Jenny:​ Yeah!
Brittani:​ Rub your nose?
Jenny:​ Yeah! How do you fix glasses?
Brittani:​ Go like this.
Jenny:​ No, that’s a middle finger, Brittani, and I’m offended!
Brittani:​ That’s how you fix your glasses!
Kristin:​ Do you really push your glasses up like that?
Brittani:​ Yes!
Kristin:​ I – I don’t...
Jenny:​ Do you have glasses? I’ve never seen you in glasses…
Brittani: ​I don’t at the moment, but I have worn glasses in my lifetime.
Jenny:​ And I hope you will again. God willing.
Brittani:​ Yeah, I have an eye appointment this Saturday.


Jenny:​ Yeah! Something to look forward to.
Kristin:​ So yeah, she was born with that knowledge.
Brittani:​ My favorite part was in the whatever it’s called, where the dead
people are, and it was that line, the – I have it written down. “When you kiss
me, I wanna die.”
Jenny:​ Have you ever kissed somebody and then wanted to die?
Brittani:​ That’s my number one feeling after kissing anyone.
[Audience laughs]
Jenny: ​Good…
Brittani:​ I just didn’t know where it was coming from. When you kiss me, I
wanna die so that we can be together forever? When you kiss me, I wanna
die, because it caused me inner turmoil? Like –
Kristin:​ Right, I mean I think it – I took it as inner turmoil, but it seems
really displaced –
Jenny:​ Or, when you kiss me I wanna die, because I’ve experienced the
height of all possible feeling, and I just want to ascend! [Audience laughs]
Or something. Or so I have read, people occasionally feel that way.
Kristin:​ [laughing] Right, yeah. Sure.
Jenny:​ Yeah, so I’ve got that thing, so…
Kristin:​ It’s been nice having you on the podcast. [Audience laughs]
Jenny:​ Yeah, thank you so much for having me, it’s been cool being your
co-host for these episodes.
Kristin:​ Yeah. No but, I mean, it didn’t make sense, ‘cause a minute before,
she was, like, dreamy talking about Angel in the hallway. I could see her


being a little, like, “Uhh, when I kiss you, it makes me feel feelings!” But,
like –
Brittani:​ And then she ran away! I would’ve been like, no, no, no, you come
back here! [Audience laughs] We need to have a little chat.
Jenny:​ Dude is like an iceberg, though! It’s, like, how do you interact with
that?
Kristin:​ Actually, I have to say that from interacting with other, fellow
icebergs, running away works. You know?
Jenny:​ No comment.
Kristin:​ I’m just saying, when you – when somebody’s like, “I’m not
interested,” and you’re like, “Fine, bye.” I mean, I didn’t say, “When you
kiss me, I wanna die.” [Audience laughs]
Jenny:​ Maybe! You might’ve said that and forgot!
Kristin:​ I might have – yeah, something close to that maybe.
Brittani:​ Lesser, like, “When you kiss me, I wanna go into a coma.”
[Audience laughs]
Jenny:​ Right.
Kristin:​ Right, right.
Jenny:​ Just one click below.
Kristin:​ Just a little, I wanna get a little –
Jenny:​ That I’ll come out of, and then we can be together.
Kristin:​ Yeah, yeah. But the running away part, you know.
Jenny:​ “When you kiss me, I wanna die, so that I can be buried, and then
my ghost can hang out at my grave and watch you visit –”


Brittani:​ Okay, alright, let me stop you there.
Jenny:​ “And see, like, how long –”
Kristin:​ Brittani, you –
Jenny:​ “You come regularly to the grave to” – Yes?
Kristin:​ Everyone thinks this is funny, but I have to go home with her.
[Audience laughs] And I promise you that for the next week, it’s gonna be
other iterations of this.
Brittani:​ Just don’t kiss her, so then you don’t have to deal with it.
[Audience and Jenny laugh]
Kristin:​ I didn’t even think it would be triggered by a kiss! I think she’ll just
be saying –
Jenny:​ Yeah, I don’t need that shit. [Audience laughs]
Kristin:​ Marriage!
Jenny:​ To iterate. I don’t need that shit to iterate. I need it ​to live​.
[Audience laughs and goes “Ohh!”]
Kristin:​ Oh, okay, so I have to go now.
Brittani:​ How do you turn this off?
Kristin:​ Anyway, Brittani, what else do you have for us? What are your
notes?
Brittani:​ Okay, what else I got. I also had “very dressed up for a frat
party,” because I have been to several.
Kristin:​ Right?
Jenny:​ Yeah!


Brittani:​ Usually there’s some sort of vaguely racist theme. So there’s not a
lotta, like, button-ups and –
Kristin:​ Yeah, no.
Brittani:​ Definitely not a sports jacket.
Kristin:​ No! But somebody that we know was in a sorority – where did
Sarah go to college?
Jenny:​ Texas, somewhere in Texas.
Kristin:​ In Texas? And every time she talked about what it was like to be in
a sorority, it sounded like that.
Jenny:​ It sounded like some high society shit.
Kristin:​ Yeah, it did.
Jenny:​ Gowns.
Kristin:​ Yeah, it did not sound like a state university version of what I
experienced.
Brittani: ​Well, I think for like their private events, they’ll wear, like, pearls
and shit.
Jenny:​ Oh my god.
Brittani:​ But if it’s like a campus-wide party or mixer, which is what that
sort of seemed like, that’s not what they would wear.
Kristin:​ No.
Jenny:​ Well, maybe because there was, like, supposed to be a sacrifice
going on downstairs? That, like, they aligned their formal thing with that.
Brittani:​ Yeah, business casual sacrifice. [Audience laughs]


Kristin:​ Yeah, that’s true. It would’ve been disrespectful to have the
sacrifice if everyone was just, like, wearing casual clothes upstairs. Good
point.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Brittani:​ Which brings me to the two guys who were, like, on guard
upstairs. Yeah, so like, when they come back in the door, and he’s like, has
the hood on – who volunteered not to see the sacrifice?
Jenny:​ Great question. They must be fresh. They must be new.
Kristin:​ That’s what I thought. I thought they were, like, pledges.
Brittani:​ Yeah? They’re new?
Jenny:​ [loudly] They weren’t pledges, cause we saw – sorry.
Brittani:​ No, I just – maybe they’ve seen it so many times?
Jenny:​ Ooh, maybe they’re just bored of it?
Kristin:​ Oh, that’s true.
Jenny:​ They’re like, “Ugh, another sacrifice?”
Kristin:​ Yeah, yeah, I don’t know. Also, was one of the guards the guy that,
like, lumbers toward –
Jenny:​ Yeah, yeah, the Hulk.
Kristin:​ Maybe they just don’t trust that guy to be around a sacrifice. ‘Cause
he was really... something.
Brittani:​ Yeah. He was very rapey.
Jenny:​ Oh, maybe only dudes of a certain rank. Like, maybe only juniors
and seniors attend the official blood sacrifices. That’s how I’d do it.


Kristin:​ Obviously not enough information was put into this episode for us.
Jenny:​ We need answers.
Brittani:​ In no episodes! All of these episodes are lacking the things that –
yeah!
Jenny:​ Always questions.
Kristin:​ Some clapping, some clapping in the audience for that. Yeah.
Brittani:​ What else I got? I really like how you all are – this is a note that I
wrote while sitting. You guys look like little newscasters when you go –
[Audience laughs]
Jenny:​ [high, excited voice] We do?
Brittani:​ Arrange your papers.
Kristin:​ Wow.
Jenny:​ Which cast member of ​The Newsroom​ am I?
Brittani:​ The one global newsroom we all know or –?
Jenny:​ Oh, no, no. No.
Kristin:​ The show, the TV show?
Brittani:​ The TV show ​The Newsroom?
Jenny:​ Yeah, it’s a TV show.
Brittani:​ I don’t watch that shit.
Jenny:​ I’m sorry I brought it up. Deeply sorry I brought it up, but I hope
I’m Olivia Munn! I hope I’m Olivia Munn. [“Woo!” from the audience] Okay.


Sorry.
[Gong sound]
Kristin:​ So at this point in the podcast, Jenny unexpectedly dropped a huge
spoiler on our audience unintentionally, and we’ve taken it out, but we did
wanna share with you the audience’s response to that spoiler.
Kristin:​ Fucking– !
[Audience screaming and yelling]
Jenny:​ So I should really get going ​right ​now. What – who – [Audience
continues yelling and moaning] So, goodbye?
Kristin:​ What?!
Jenny: ​And... it’s a good thing we’re not recording this!
Kristin:​ Okay, and with that, we wanna apologize to anyone who was in our
audience who had not yet seen the full series and take you right back into
the show.
[Gong sound]
Kristin:​ If you have not read ​Harry Potter, ​just raise your hand feebly –
okay.
Jenny:​ It’s okay.
Kristin:​ Okay, then I can’t tell this story.
Jenny:​ Maybe just earmuffs! Maybe just earmuffs and hum quietly to
yourself.
Kristin:​ No, no, no, ​no​! God forbid we spoil something else for these
wonderful people! [Audience laughs]
Jenny:​ That wouldn’t be ideal.


Kristin:​ No, no, no. I have a story. Come talk to me later, and I’ll tell you. I
don’t wanna spoil anything, but something horrible happened to me during
my read of ​Harry Potter​. Actually, if you’ve read ​Harry Potter​, you can
imagine the worst spoil of all? Someone tweeted that back at me –
Jenny:​ When you were like, “I’m reading Book One!”
Kristin:​ Yep! I was like, “I’m so excited, I’m finally reading ​Harry Potter!​”
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Brittani:​ Okay, yeah. I was trying to figure out what it would be, but I think
I get it.
Kristin:​ Yeah. Yeah.
Jenny:​ What kind of fucking monster?
Kristin:​ What kind of monster?
Jenny:​ What kind of monster?
[Audience laughs]
Audience member:​ Was it Donald Trump? [Audience laughs]
Kristin:​ Oh my god, maybe it was! I’m gonna go back and check.
Other audience member:​ He doesn’t read.
Kristin:​ Yeah. Brittani.
Brittani:​ Yes.
Kristin:​ I really do wanna hear your fake laugh before you go, but is there –
do you have any other things you would like to discuss with us?
Brittani: ​Um, just one, which is… do they ever bother to explain, in future


episodes, how these things work at all? Because, like, how does the reptile
control the economy? [Audience laughs and claps]
Jenny:​ [laughs loudly]
Brittani:​ Is he just, like, a good luck charm? Like, they just, like, rub him,
and then they have good luck? And that’s how it works?
Kristin:​ Yeah, yeah, yeah. They don’t explain it.
Brittani:​ Yeah. Are they, like, throwing newspapers down, does he have,
like –
Kristin:​ Does he know – like, is he informed on the stocks?
Brittani:​ Yeah, and know the Dow Jones, and –
Kristin:​ He looked like the kind of reptile that would. Like, I could imagine
him having some intel.
Brittani:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ Really? You got that vibe?
Kristin:​ I could see him reading ​The Wall Street Journal​, yeah. [laughter]
Jenny:​ Okay. I will –
Kristin:​ I mean, we saw him all agitated, but I’m talking about in the
morning when he wakes up.
Jenny:​ Oh, right. Like, right after the feeding, maybe.
Kristin:​ Yeah! Yeah.
Jenny:​ He’s probably very hungry, ‘cause they only feed him once a year.
Kristin:​ Yeah. But three! Three people have to last awhile right?


Brittani:​ Mm hmm. And how’d they come up – did they do four and he was
like, “Ugh, I’m full.” [Audience laughs]
Kristin:​ The first five years were just, like, “Uh, one wasn’t enough, but five
was too many…”
Brittani:​ He’s like, “I got weird poops when we did five.” [Audience laughs]
Kristin:​ You know, I really did not think we were gonna talk about snake
monster poops today.
Jenny:​ And yet.
Kristin:​ And yet! Here we are.
Brittani:​ Also, one more favorite moment is when that dude is clearly about
to sexually assault her, and the other one comes in and is like, “No, no, no.”
Kristin:​ Right?
Brittani:​ Because, like, that’s not okay, but killing her’s fine.
Kristin:​ Yeah. And so is slapping her across the face and calling her a bitch!
That’s fine, too. But you’re a pervert.
Jenny:​ I got the impression that it wasn’t like, don’t sexually assault her
because sexual assault is bad. I got the impression it was more like, don’t
sexually assault the sacrifice, which has to be pure. [Assent from audience]
That was like the horrible –
Kristin:​ Right, right, it was fine if –
Jenny:​ Like, that’s a really important distinction!
Kristin:​ Yeah, it is, it’s important because the patriarchy.
Brittani:​ I mean, this was a ​terrifying​ episode. [Audience laughs]
Kristin:​ It really was. It really was. Like, we watched it first and second


time today, and the first time through, I was like, “Oh, boy, is this ever
relevant!” Like, really – yeah.
Brittani:​ Cool. I think that’s it. I can do my fake laugh now if you guys need
me to go. [laughter]
Jenny:​ We ​need ​it. We need the laugh.
Brittani:​ Oh, one more, one more, since this is just a thing. So sixty
degrees, that rule? I think that just, all white people should take that to
heart.
Kristin:​ Wait, what rule?
Brittani:​ That it has to be sixty degrees for you to wear shorts outside.
[Audience laughs and claps] You guys, as a people, don’t dress weather
appropriate. [Clapping]
Kristin:​ [laughing] I will let my parents know that they did the right thing.
Brittani:​ They did, yeah.
Kristin:​ [laughing] They did. Okay, great!
Brittani:​ I guess I’ll do a fake laugh that I think, like, belongs in the
episode. [maniacally] “Ha ha ha HA ha ha!” [Audience laughs and claps]
Kristin:​ Brittani Nichols, everybody! [Audience cheers] Wow. Well, that was
an eventful – it’s okay. It’s okay, Jenny, it’s gonna be okay. Oh man, you
guys, just to tell you a little something about Jenny. Like, if Jenny turns on a
red light and wasn’t supposed to, it’s something that haunts her for, like,
years. So, this is – what’s happened here is gonna require a lot of attention
and love from everyone. It’s gonna – hold my hand. It’s gonna be okay.
Audience: ​Awww!
Kristin:​ It’s gonna be alright.
Jenny:​ I took something away from some people.


Kristin:​ It’s okay, though, it’s okay. They know – it wasn’t like what
happened to me. It wasn’t intentional. It was an accident, and everybody
loves you, look at all those loving faces. [Audience cheers]
Jenny: ​[laughing] Oh! Okay! Thanks, guys, sorry, guys. Sorry.
Audience member:​ It wasn’t for Cordelia, that was for you.
Kristin:​ Right, that was actually – yeah. It was actually for you! One thing I
wanna say is that I was – when we were watching the snake arise for the
first time – also, “reptile,” fine, but, he looks like a snake –
Jenny:​ Well, a snake is a reptile, right?
Kristin:​ Yeah, but –
Jenny:​ It’s chill, it’s calm –
Kristin:​ So I can call him a snake?
Jenny:​ Oh, yeah. Well, I mean. What else are you gonna call that thing?
Kristin:​ I dunno, I just didn’t wanna be wrong. I know I’m in the company
of, like, some reptile experts, so –
Jenny:​ Yeah, no, they might know something we don’t know.
Kristin:​ Yeah, I don’t wanna embarrass myself! But I was like, wow, this
makeup or – I know it’s more than makeup, but there’s, like, a lot of
makeup happening – is so amazing. And then I was like, “Oh, it’s total
snakeup!” [Audience laughs] And I got really excited for myself, so... maybe
I should go into standup, you know? I think I’ve got it.
Jenny:​ Yeah, you’re ready. You’re definitely ready.
Kristin:​ What else do you have to say, Jennifer?
Jenny:​ [sighs]


Kristin:​ [laughing] That was for Mey.
Jenny:​ Let’s see. I’m not sure where your –
Kristin:​ Shuffling… shuffling…
Jenny:​ You have different breaks than I have.
Kristin:​ You can say anything you want! Even if it’s out of order.
Jenny:​ Thank you. I read on Wikipedia that in the final battle scene – or no,
post-battle, when Angel’s, like, got Tom Warner by the arms, and he’s, like,
leading him out. The original concept from David Greenwalt was that –
Kristin:​ Oh, yeah!
Jenny:​ Machida would still be alive, and would sort of, pheeewt! come down
and just devour him. Just like, “Oh, no sacrifice? You’re the sacrifice, ha!”
But then there was like, a – it was not possible with the CGI/time/money. I
don’t know if some of you have seen the CGI in all seven seasons, it’s a
whole thing! But they did what they could. And I wish that Tom had died at
the end.
Kristin:​ Yeah. You could tell – like, when you said that, I was like, that
makes sense. ‘Cause the scene where they, like, scurry him up the steps is,
like, really? Is that what happens?
Jenny:​ It’s not satisfying. It’s not like –
Kristin:​ You know the Sunnydale cops are gonna be like, “No, no” – or they
didn’t actually. They got consecutive life sentences.
Jenny:​ Consecutive life sentences.
Kristin:​ They save it all up! They just – they save it all up. Sorry. Now that,
who said we look like newscasters? Brittani? Now I just felt like a
newscaster. Also, I wanna talk about how verbal Cordelia always is in the
face of danger! Like, every time! She’s like, [Cordelia impression] “But


what’re you gonna do? Who’s first? First for what?” [Audience laughs] Like,
she just never – she never stops talking! And I love it so much. I just, you
know? It’s good stuff. It’s really good.
Jenny:​ Well, I think she’s used to getting answers when she wants them,
you know? In most situations.
Kristin:​ Yeah. And we talk about Cordelia a lot, but, I think the – we’re
always gonna talk about Cordelia a lot. But I feel that certain characters are
really getting their feet under them firmly. Willow had a fucking episode!
[Audience cheers]
Jenny:​ What a fucking great episode for Willow!
Kristin:​ Listen, my second audio clip is just Willow’s rant, ‘cause I –
Audience:​ Yes!
Kristin:​ Right? ‘Cause I just played it so many times in my brain, and I love
it so much. So let’s all just listen together if my phone will ever stop telling
me to get on wifi. Okay.

[Clip from ​Buffy the Vampire Slayer​, “Reptile Boy”
Willow:​ Why do you think she went to that party? Because you gave
her the brush off. And you, never let her do anything except work and
patrol. And I know she’s the chosen one but you’re killing her with the
pressure. I mean, she’s sixteen going on forty. And you! I mean you’re
gonna live forever, you don’t have time for a cup of coffee?
[Audience laughs, cheers and claps]
Kristin: ​God, that’s my favorite thing. My favorite, that she says “and you”
to Giles and then gets angrier and is like “and you!” and says it again.
[Audience laughs] Really great.
Jenny: ​It was really good.


Kristin: ​Right? And she had another thing that I didn’t even talk about. Oh,
yeah, where she’s like – where they’re in the frat house or whatever we’re
calling it. And she just screams, “Guys! Buffy! Snake! Basement! Now!”
[Audience laughs] She really rallies everybody. I’m just really excited about
Willow overall in this episode.
Jenny: ​Oh my god, also when the Scoobies have assembled and they’re
about to... go inside.
Kristin: ​Yeah.
[Audience laughs]
Jenny: ​Somewhere there’s a better word for that but, regardless. And
Xander comes up behind them, and he’s all like, “I’m Xander in a robe,” and
Willow’s like, “piece of information,” and Giles is like, “other piece of
information.” And then, Angel’s like [swooping noise] “With Buffy, aaghh!”
[Audience laughs]
Kristin:​ Yeah, yeah, yeah, that’s a really good –
Jenny:​ Dude can say he doesn’t wanna get a cup of coffee a lot.
Kristin: ​Yeah.
Jenny: ​But certain things are –
Kristin: ​Well, it’s always the ones who pretend they don’t care that care the
most, Jenny. [Audience laughs]
Jenny: ​This is not about anybody except one 241-year-old vampire.
Kristin: ​I’m just saying.
Jenny:​ The end.
Kristin: ​I’m an expert. I have a type, ya know?


Jenny: ​Oh my god also, Angel, how do you shave? [Audience laughs]
Kristin: ​Yes. Yeah. And he just ignores the question, which is especially –
[Jenny laughs]
Audience member: ​Rude!
Kristin:​ Yeah, it’s so rude and very frustrating for those of us who need to
know.
Jenny: ​So rude. Also, Giles doesn’t want to know?! Giles is right there! Like,
I feel like the real Giles would push the issue.
Kristin:​ I think Giles knows, because Giles and Angel, they do a lot of…
Jenny: ​Oh right. They’ve got something going on in the Sexual Tension
Award!
Kristin:​ Oh yeah. I, um, actually, I think we should bring our third guest up
to discuss the Sexual Tension Award… Gaby Dunn! [Audience cheers] So
honored!
Gaby:​ Wait, you have to read... read my bio in front of me.
Kristin:​ Okay, it’s written – it’s actually –
Gaby:​ Read it ​to​ me!
Kristin: ​It’s written for Jenny to read it so –
Gaby: ​This is a dream I’ve had. [Audience laughs] Go on. Go on, Jenny!
Jenny: ​Ahem. Our last guest. You.
Gaby: ​Cool.
Jenny: ​Is many things to many people. Uh, she’s an actor, comedian,
activist, author and blogger. And she’s the host – sorry, I saw blogger in
your Wikipedia article.


Gaby: ​Really? It says that on – when was it written?
Jenny: ​I don’t know, I didn’t look –
Gaby:​ 2009! Height of Blogger!
Jenny: ​I didn’t source it. Yeah, but it felt right. And wrong.
Gaby: ​I’ve blogged before. [laughs]
Jenny: ​Yeah. I thought you might have. She’s the host of a fantastic
podcast called “Bad With Money” and she’s one half of the sketch comedy
duo “Just Between Us.” She co-wrote a YA novel called “I Hate Everyone But
You” that’s coming out in September. And one time, she danced up to me in
a feather boa and told me she was a very famous millennial, and then
danced away back into the night. Please welcome to the stage, Gaby Dunn!
[Audience cheers]
Gaby: ​I like that claim to fame. ‘Cause I don’t remember doing it, but it
checks out! [laughter]
Jenny: ​Super on-brand.
Kristin:​ Yeah, it’s gonna become one of the legacy Gaby Dunn stories, I
think.
Gaby:​ I have no – I was so drunk.
Kristin: ​That’s when most legacy stories, I think, are made.
Gaby:​ I know.
Jenny: ​Yeah? Yes. Yes. Yes.
Gaby: ​I know. I think also – oh no, it wasn’t you guys. It was Carly and
Robin who kissed, and then I yelled, “Ew, Mom and Dad! Gross!” [laughter] I
stand by it.


Carly (In Audience):​ That checks out.
Kristin: ​Carly checks that story out, from the audience.
Gaby: ​I’m wearing my Sunnydale shirt. Sunnydale High School shirt.
[Audience claps]
Kristin: ​Also, you are our first second-time guest, right?
Gaby: ​Because I forced myself onto the show. [Kristin laughs]
Kristin: ​We had the most polite – it was so polite. That’s what was –
Gaby: ​It was so on-brand for me, where I was like, “Kristin, am I on the
show?” And then she was like, “Oh my god, I’m so sorry if you thought you
were! Like, I don’t know.’ And I was like, “I’ll be there at 7 and I will be on
the show.” [Audience, Kristin, and Jenny laugh] I’m shocked you have a bio
ready!
Kristin:​ Yeah, well, Jenny labored. She labored over it. Well, so you know,
‘cause you’ve been on the show before, that we give the Sexual Tension
Award to, you know, whomever.
Gaby: ​I was gonna say, what a fitting Sexual Tension Award, for – another
spoiler, two people who do bone later on. I was just trying to help you, I
don’t know.
Kristin:​ So everybody leave, this is happening
Gaby:​ Making up spoilers, I don’t know. I was like, maybe if I pretend that it
actually –
Kristin:​ Yeah, that’s so sweet.
Jenny:​ That is really nice.
Gaby: ​They actually do happen and then everyone could act like, oh my god
that really does ha – and then you could leave it in, you know what I mean?


Kristin:​ Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Gaby:​ To take the pressure off her.
Kristin: ​So nice. And then everybody’s like, “I can’t believe Gaby Dunn did
that thing.”
Gaby:​ “I can’t believe she ruined that Giles and Angel fuck.”
[audience cheers]
Kristin:​ It’s my favorite plotline of the whole show.
Gaby: ​Yeah.
Kristin:​ My favorite one.
Jenny:​ Wow!
Gaby:​ “You know, I just didn’t see it coming, but if you go back to the
earlier episodes, it really makes sense.”
Jenny and Kristin:​ Yeah. [audience laughing]
Jenny:​ They did some groundwork
Gaby:​ They did such a good job laying the groundwork.
Jenny:​ Oh yeah!
Kristin:​ [laughs] So I have chosen the sexual tension nominee but I – you
know…
Jenny:​ Subject to approval by the board.
Kristin:​ Subject to approval, I would like to give the sexual tension award to
the entire frat house.


Gaby:​ Oh my god, I can’t believe we haven’t talked about this. First of all,
when they dress Xander up as a lady, I was like, what’s happening? Why is
everything ​so ​gay?
Kristin:​ Right?
Gaby:​ First of all, okay, they wear those outfits because they’re rich. Have
you never seen that movie with Brendan Fraser and he goes to a rich school
and then Matt Damon’s there and then they make fun of him for being
Jewish? What is it called? School Ties!
Kristin:​ I haven’t, I haven’t seen it.
Gaby:​ Okay, anyway, I went to a Jewish day school, they made us watch it
like three times a year. [laughter] ‘Cause it’s like, we’re supposed to learn
about anti semitism. So anyway. So like, Matt Damon’s there and then
they’re like mad, it’s kinda like Dead Poet’s Society but with anti semitism.
And then Brendan Fraser’s a Jew and has to work in the kitchen. It’s like,
really sad for him. So anyway, in that, they are all wearing ties and stuff so
that’s what reminded me, they’re like rich frat douchebags.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Gaby:​ So they dress like that. Then also in School Ties, for some reason,
they all shower together, unclear. But…
Jenny:​ I wonder why?
Kristin: ​I have an idea.
Gaby:​ So I imagine this frat as well showers together because they’re like –
it was just very – it’s all just always very sexualized. And then it’s so weird
that they’re like, “there’s a guy here we don’t know, put him in a bra!”
[laughter] What?
Kristin:​ And make him dance!
Gaby:​ A bra with also with the boobs already stuffed – like, why did you
have that?


Jenny:​ It was just ready to go.
Gaby:​ And then a wig, like, here’s what I imagine. They’re all taking turns
wearing the bra and the wig and having sex with each other, obviously,
right?
Kristin:​ Definitely!
Gaby:​ That’s a thing that’s happening?
Kristin:​ One hundred percent.
Gaby:​ Yeah, and then also Tom Warner, Tom Brady, whatever that guy’s
name is. [laughter] He has to get shirtless for them to carve things into his
back, very sexual.
Kristin:​ Yeah, it’s basically like when you do a shot off of somebody’s body.
It’s just modified for sacrifice.
Gaby:​ Also why do they have those chains in the basement? Like, what’s
going on? Also –
Kristin:​ Right?
Jenny:​ [sarcastic] Oh yeah. ‘Cause they only use them one day a year for
this thing.
Gaby:​ No! They’re doing some kinky shit.
Kristin:​ Yeah, on the other –
Jenny:​ I’m saying, they’re free 364 days a year, unused.
Gaby: ​Right. And then also – now here’s my question. Did they build their
frat on top of the lizard’s house? [laughter] Or was it by accident? Or was it,
like, they bought it and then the realtor was like, “there’s something you
should know.” And they were like, “we’ll take it!” And then they went
downstairs and they were like, “my dad’s stocks aren’t doing too well,


what?” And then they put a penny into the well to make a wish and then the
lizard was like, “ouch!” And then he was like, “what, who is it?” And then he
came up, and he was like, “I grant wishes or whatever the fuck.” [laughter]
Like, how did they find out? Did they rub him and then he was like, whoa!
Like, all of a sudden, I’m wealth – well, were they already wealthy?
Kristin:​ I don’t know. It’s the age-old question, Gaby. What came first, the
lizard or the frat house? [laughter] We could just go around and around, you
know?
Gaby:​ I assume every frat house has a lizard that’s just, like... [laughter]
and they’re just – that’s how they’re getting away with all the raping, okay.
Kristin:​ Did you go to frat parties? Have you been to frat parties?
Gaby:​ Yeah, but I went to Emerson, which is a gay feel goodery – [some
cheers from audience] oh, you guys been there, too? Yeah, it’s just like a
homosexual feel goodery. So like, the frats there are just like, “we’re a co-ed
frat, we’re a so –” what is it? A forority.
Kristin:​ No. They actually are called ​fororities​?
Gaby:​ Oh yeah! We don’t believe in gender so we just have – it’s mostly
just a hang. It’s not even a frat.
Kristin:​ Wow. That’s remarkable.
Gaby:​ Yeah. And then there’s, like, some kids play Quidditch and live in a
house together.
Jenny:​ Yes!
Gaby:​ It’s so nerdy, but yeah. And then there was a wiffle ball team, I think,
that had a house, unclear. But yeah. So I went to a frat party, but like, did
I? [laughter]
Kristin:​ Right. No, definitely not.
Gaby: ​It was like a frat party with four dudes playing Magic the Gathering in


the corner and everyone was like, “those are our friends, leave them alone!”
Kristin:​ God, I would have had so much more fun at frat parties if I went to
your frat parties.
Gaby:​ Yeah, I mean, I was on the newspaper staff and we actually called
ourselves New New New and we were, like, ragers. There was hazing. The
newspapers staff that I was on did more hazing than anything else that I’ve
ever – like, those kids – journalism students party hard because their major
is dying.
Kristin:​ Right, you gotta get it all out
Gaby:​ We were all like, no jobs left! We’re bloggers now! [audience laughs]
One time – this has nothing to do with ​Buffy​, one time we made a drink in
the bathtub called The Force. [laughter]
Kristin: ​What was the drink?
Gaby:​ It’s a thirty rack of beers, a handle of vodka, handle of whiskey and
then fruit punch.
Kristin:​ Oooh, yeah.
Gaby:​ And then you drink it with a ladle.
Jenny:​ Yeah, you do!
Kristin:​ You know what, Gaby, you ​have ​been to a frat party.
Gaby:​ It’s the newspaper kids!
Kristin:​ Yeah, that’s true. That is exactly what I drank at that party.
Gaby:​ Yeah, it was my house! It was my bathtub. [laughter] Those stains
don’t come out. Anyway.
Kristin:​ Oh yeah, fruit punch in the bathtub. What a ring.


Gaby:​ You got a red bathtub for the rest of your – how do you explain that
to your landlord? You know what I could have used? A fucking lizard in the
basement. Help! I need my deposit back! [laughter]
Kristin:​ I like that in your version of having the lizard, he would help you
clean your bathtub. Like, it wouldn’t be about wealth, it would just be like,
“And Gaby’s house is always so clean.”
Gaby:​ I have a podcast about being shitty with money, like, it wouldn’t
occur to me. I would just be like, “Can you clean this up? The floor’s very
sticky.”
Kristin:​ Wow, wow.
Gaby:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ So…
Gaby:​ Anyway, sorry
Kristin:​ I really – I mean, I feel like we’ve covered a lot. I really think we
have.
Gaby:​ It’s had nothing to do with the show.
Kristin:​ That’s great, that’s the best kind of conversation. I mean, you
know? Where you’re talking about Buffy and then all of a sudden, you’re
talking about bathtub punch.
Gaby:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ It’s a real examination of the human mind. How do you feel about
this episode? Do you like – is this one of your top, one of your bottom, one
you don’t remember very much?
Gaby:​ I did not remember it that much. But it’s weird because I liked it
when I watched it. I also – I don’t love the CGI monsters. Like, I don’t love –
I was like, alright, that’s a guy in makeup and he’s kind of standing and then
I had also read the Wikipedia page.


Jenny:​ Yeah!
Gaby:​ And so it was like, then I knew that their budget got all messed up
because of the CGI and then I just felt bad about that the whole time.
Kristin:​ Oh, because they spent the budget on the CGI, it didn’t work…
Gaby:​ Yeah! They spent all the budget on the CGI and presumably hiring all
those frat extras. And then it was like – and then everyone’s pay got cut, I
presume.
Kristin:​ Oh, wow.
Gaby:​ So I don’t know.
Kristin:​ That’s sad, yeah. See, I don’t understand TV. I was like, “oh yeah,
they did all that stuff and they couldn’t use it but everything was fine.” I
don’t – you know I didn’t think about it.
Gaby:​ Oh, yeah! But I liked – it was an interesting parallel too. So she had
one drink, right? And it was an interesting parallel to another episode that
comes later when Buffy’s in college. So it seems like the Buffy writers –
anti-alcohol. Teetotallers. [laughter]
Kristin:​ Yeah, it is a thing to see Buffy walk in and be like, “oh, is there
alcohol in this? Then I’m not gonna have it.” That was not an experience I
had in high school. And Willow’s –
Jenny:​ Saying no to alcohol?
Kristin:​ Yeah, we’re gonna – every family that listens to this together
they’re like, “well, and then we lost them.” Sorry, don’t do things – don’t do
bad things.
Gaby:​ But then when she had one drink and she got drugged. So that’s a
PSA.
Kristin:​ Yeah, yeah. You never know what drink is gonna have a –


Gaby:​ Also if she’s – I’m sorry. This is victim blaming, but if she’s drugged,
then they both – their instinct was to walk up the stairs? Get out of that
house!
Kristin:​ Well, I thought that was very interesting. That was a very
unbelievable thing to me, that they would go – choose to climb a flight of
stairs, feeling like that. But what was very believable to me was when she
bumped into the statue and said she was sorry. [audience laughs] I was like,
oh yeah, I have been there before.
Gaby:​ It’s like a real life horror movie.​ ​Leave the house!
Kristin:​ Yeah, turn – go outside, stay with people, do something.
Gaby:​ She just wanted to be a normal girl at a frat party. With men in ties.
Kristin:​ And as we’ve learned over and over again, she will never be able to
be a normal girl.
Jenny:​ Aww.
Gaby:​ I know, ‘cause she’s the slayer.
Kristin:​ She’s the chosen one, so there you have it.
Gaby:​ What’s Cordy’s excuse? [laughter]
Kristin:​ I don’t know, I can’t explain her. We just love her.
Gaby: ​I liked when she was like, “weird shit always happens around you
guys.”
Jenny:​ “I hate you guys.”
Kristin: ​I have that written down where she’s like – where is it? where is it?
Gaby:​ “I hate you guys.”


Kristin:​ “You guys, I hate you guy –” yeah, “you guys, I hate you.” ‘Cause it
sounded like she was gonna say “I love you guys.” Nope, I hate you guys.
Gaby:​ There was some foreshadowing with her sexual tensions too. Because
she and Buffy have sex, you heard it here first. [laughter]
Kristin:​ Yeah. I mean, her and Willow already had sex in the utility closet.
Jenny:​ Twice!
Kristin:​ As we have discussed, at length.
Gaby:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ Yeah, yeah, there’s a lot of sex coming up.
Gaby:​ Specifically gay sex.
Kristin:​ Yes! Actually there’s no straight sex in…
Gaby:​ It’s pretty weird.
Kristin:​ Yeah, it’s why this series is so celebrated, I think.
Gaby:​ Yeah! It won so many GLAAD awards.
Kristin:​ Yeah!
Gaby:​ Jenny’s so mad – are you mad?
Jenny:​ No!
Gaby:​ You’re crinkling your paper like I’m upsetting you.
Jenny:​ I’m not – you don’t know what it means… when I crinkle paper.
[audience laughs] This is a joyful crinkling.
Kristin:​ I can’t figure out if no one will ever come to a live taping of ours
again, or if we’ll have like a thousand people at the next one. I can’t figure


out which way it’s gonna go, you know.
Jenny:​ It is mysterious.
Kristin:​ Very unpredictable up here.
Gaby: ​I’m having a great time.
Jenny:​ Gaby will be back!
Kristin:​ Gaby will be back, thank goodness.
Gaby:​ Oh! Also I want – so this ties into the end scene at the Bronze but
Jonathan!
Jenny:​ Jonathan!
Kristin:​ [gasp] Johnathan, Jonathan gets a name! [crowd cheers] Yeah!
Gaby:​ The famous Danny Strong.
Jenny:​ Oh yeah.
Kristin:​ So great.
Gaby:​ That guy works so much in this town. Do you guys know that? He’s
like a screenwriter and shit.
Kristin:​ Oh, I don’t know that. I don’t know anything.
Gaby:​ He’s like mad successful. Did he win an Oscar? [Several crowd
members say “yeah.”] Yeah, he won a goddamn Oscar.
Kristin:​ For what?
Jenny:​ Mad Men?
Gaby:​ No, he wrote – what did he write? [crowd members shout out titles]
He wrote The Butler.


Jenny:​ [shrieking] He wrote The Butler?!
Gaby:​ It’s out of control.
Kristin:​ Wow, Jonathan!
Gaby:​ If you’re that – I think I – someone I know, or maybe I did, I can’t
remember – somebody saw that guy working on a screenplay at a coffee
shop and I was like, yeah, of course, that’s all he does. He’s so successful.
We’re all fucking up. [laughter]
Kristin:​ I need to follow in the footsteps of Jonathan.
Gaby:​ Do you think Sarah Michelle Gellar is – if I – who would win an Oscar
from ​Buffy​? That guy!
Kristin:​ Yeah, no. No, no.
Gaby:​ Like, David Boreanaz is ​pissed​. [laughter]
Kristin:​ Gaby.
Gaby:​ What?
Kristin:​ Have you prepared for your fake laugh?
Gaby:​ Well, both people prior to me did low fake laughs. So I thought
maybe I would go real high with it and do like a [high pitched laugh]. You
know? Just to mix it up. [audience laughs and claps] Thank you.
Kristin:​ That… I feel like you think ahead because now when we do the
mash-up of the fake laughs…
Gaby:​ Oh, good.
Kristin:​ You know, we’ll have –
Gaby:​ And make it a ringtone.


Kristin:​ Yes! We’ll have something to work with.
Gaby:​ I know what you guys are up to. [laughter] Wait, what’s your sexual
tension award?
Kristin:​ That’s what we did when you sat down, I gave it to all the frat boys
because you –
Gaby:​ Oh, the frat.
Jenny:​ On your paper, it kind of looks like you gave it to Gaby.
Kristin:​ [laughs] It does! It says “Gaby, Sexual Tension Award.”
Gaby:​ You better be – well, I mean that’s obviously true. Anyone who’s
been to A-Camp knows that.
Krstin:​ Yeah, yeah.
Gaby:​ But also, I don’t mean to infringe on your relationship with Brittani
Nichols.
Kristin:​ Oh, yeah.
Gaby:​ And my relationship with Brittani Nichols.
Kristin:​ All of our collective relationships...
Gaby:​ Everyone’s relationship in their heart and mind with Brittani Nichols.
Kristin:​ With Brittani Nichols. Yeah, it’s hard, it’s a hard – so it’s a –
Gaby:​ Can I just say, I filmed something with Brittani – I filmed something
the day after Brittani Nichols and I got to set. And they were like, “You know
who was here yesterday? Brittani Nichols.” And I was like, cool. And every
girl on set was like, “She’s dreamy!” [audience laughs] “What’s that about –”
They were losing their minds, like, “what’s her deal?” And I was like, “Are
you straight?” And they were like, “I thought I was!” [audience laughs]


Anyway, I got to hear about how hot Brittani was for the whole time I was
on set.
Kristin:​ Yeah, I mean, probably any time you go anywhere. I feel like no
matter where I go… you know?
Gaby:​ Yeah!
Kristin:​ People are just like, have you heard of Brittani Nichols ‘cause I
would like to talk to you about how attractive she is.
Jenny:​ Yes!
Gaby:​ She’s so mad at me right now. But that’s really what happened,
Brittani!
Kristin:​ Sorry, Brittani, we did not build you an escape hatch. [laughs] Gaby
Dunn, thank you for being on our podcast again.
Gaby:​ Oh, thank you for having me! [audience claps]
Jenny:​ Miss you already.
Kristin:​ Oh yeah, don’t worry.
Jenny:​ Okay, so... great. Great, great, great.
Kristin:​ Good job, good work.
Jenny:​ Great, great. Everybody’s great. Everybody’s so great.
Kristin:​ Well, we talked about a lot of the things that we had left to talk
about at the end of the episode. Jonathan getting a name, Cordelia saying “I
hate you guys.” The only thing I had really left to talk about was how the
episode ends. Which is…
Jenny:​ [singsong] Coffee date!
Kristin:​ Yeah.


Jenny:​ Maybe!
Kristin:​ And not only just a date that is made, but a date where Buffy has
the last line and she’s like, “I’ll think about it.” What a great way to end this
episode. You know?
Jenny:​ Seriously.
Kristin:​ What a great way, do you – did we forget anything that you wanted
to say before we –
Jenny:​ Gosh, no!
Kristin:​ Okay. Well –
Jenny:​ We hit it all and then some.
Kristin:​ Alright, well, tell the good people who you are. The people in the
microphone. Everyone here knows who you are.
Jenny: ​Dear people in the microphone, I am Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin:​ And I am Kristin Russo, and while our three guests come back to
the stage to wolf howl us out together, we will let you know that you can
follow us on Twitter and on Facebook, @bufferingcast. Brittani is too busy
Snapchatting. [audience laughs] To wolf howl. Yeah, just gather, you can
just surround the mic like a – yeah, there we go. Are we ready for this? Also,
audience, feel free to howl along!
Jenny:​ Oh yeah! ‘Til next – oh my gosh [indistinct] we all howl like a wolf.
Chris:​ Got it
Jenny:​ ‘Til next time!
Everyone: ​Awwooooooooooooo!
Jenny:​ That was great!


Kristin:​ Yeah! Awesome!
[Audience applauds]
[Jenny performing “Reptile Boy”, off the album “Songs from Season Two” by
Buffering the Vampire Slayer]
Things are just extra hard this week
Angel’s mixed messages and Giles layin’ into me
Feeling like I can barely breathe
Just need to get away and blow off some slayer steam
Cordelia has a plan tonight
She’s got one car and two invites
Choose not to care and so I’ll lie to Giles
Fuck it
All I wanted was a normal night out at this dang frat party
What I got was a heaping scoop of the demon lizard patriarchy
All I wanted was a normal night out at this dang frat party
What I got was a heaping scoop of the demon lizard patriarchy
Don’t know how I’m supposed to be
These guys are playin’ the part of assholes masterfully
Tom seemed like he was the nice one
Until I woke up in the basement all chained up
Cordelia isn’t helpful but
She’s great at talking through crisis
Chains off I’ll tear this snake right up, uh huh
Fuck it
All I wanted was a normal night out at this dang frat party
What I got was a heaping scoop of the demon lizard patriarchy
All I wanted was a normal night out at this dang frat party
What I got was a heaping scoop of the demon lizard patriarchy
So dudes listen up, don’t chain us up


Metaphorically or literally to make gains financially
‘Cause if you do, we’ll come for you
One thing I’ll say is you might not see us til it’s too late
Fuck it
All I wanted was a normal night out at this dang frat party
What I got was a heaping scoop of the demon lizard patriarchy
All I wanted was a normal night out at this dang frat party
What I got was a heaping scoop of the demon lizard patriarchy

