Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 7.11: Showtime
[CHIME]
Jenny: Oh! Hello!
Kristin: Wow, funny meeting you here.
Jenny: I—
Kristin: [simultaneously] God, I hope no one ever makes a compilation of all the
times I’ve said that at the top of the episode. [both laugh]
Jenny: Well, you know, you’ve just wished upon a star for it by—
Kristin: No!
Jenny: Saying it out loud.
Kristin: No, don’t do it. Don’t embarrass me. We’re here! We have announcements.
We have news! We have things to tell you before we get into today’s episode.
Umm…the first—actually, the first two things are pretty fucking big deals, Jenny.
Pretty—
Jenny: [makes beeping sound] Yes.
Kristin: Did you ever think that maybe, perhaps, one day, you would be able to
add “author” to your resume? Your working—
Jenny: I dared…to dream, Kristin! I dared to dream.
Kristin: Just yesterday, it was announced that we are writing a book. We are
publishing a book with St. Martin’s Press called Slayers, Every One of Us. And it’s
just gonna be about the fucking last six years of our life.
Jenny: Hurray!
Kristin: Our life or lives, depending on how you wanna look at it. [both laugh]
Where we have journeyed through the series of Buffy the Vampire Slayer and also,
you know, moved through things like being married and then being divorced. Or
like, you know—


Jenny: Mmm. Mmhmm.
Kristin: Presidential elections or pandemics or, like, who knows! A couple of things
have happened. So—
Jenny: All kinds of things.
Kristin: We’re gonna be writing a book about it and we’re really fucking excited.
I’m excited. How are you feeling?
Jenny: I’m also excited.
Kristin: Yeah, it’s pretty fucking cool. It’s pretty fucking cool. We put it on social
media yesterday and we were just showered with all of your excitement and love
and all the things that you constantly are giving to us, as well as all of your
questions. [laughs] So we don’t have a ton of answers yet, because we just—it just
happened. It just happened. But one of the biggest questions was, “but will there
be an audio book?” We don’t know yet, but like, yeah. You know? Like—
Jenny: Like, probably.
Kristin: I mean, certainly it would be very funny if there wasn’t, since our
format—our main format is [laughs] this, in your ears. But we will, of course, share
more information with you as we have it. But for now, we’re just, like, fuck yes!
This is so exciting. We’re just—
Jenny: Yeah! It’s really exciting.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Ahhhhh!
Kristin: We’re gonna write a book. [singsong] We’re gonna write a book! [normal]
Hey, we’re gonna do something else.
Jenny: [gasps] We’re gonna go to Chicago!
Kristin: We’re gonna go to Chicago! Chicago, we told you—
Jenny: Kristin. Take me to Chicago.


Kristin: I will take you to Chicago!
Jenny: Thank you.
Kristin: I will take you and your wife, Jess Abbott, to Chicago. [Jenny gasps and
laughs] We’re all going—
Jenny: Wives 4 Ex-wives getaway weekend in Chicago! [both laugh]
Kristin: So many wives, so little time.
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: [simultaneously] Which is almost the title of the show that we’re doing in
Chicago. [laughs]
Jenny: Indeed.
Kristin: The Chicago show is two nights. It’s July 23rd and 24th. And it is called
Two Slayers, No Waiting: A Dirty Girls Weekend. Wow, I wonder—
Jenny: That’s right.
Kristin: What that could be about. Jess is coming.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Hmmm. Hmmm.
Kristin: Two slayers, no waiting, Dirty Girls. You know, we try not to spoil anything,
but we have to announce this show, so. [laughs]
Jenny: Indeed. This show’s gonna be happening at Lincoln Hall. Beautiful venue in
Chicago.
Kristin: Yeah. Yes.
Jenny: Very exciting.
Kristin: Yes, and Chicago, we know—you know, we were supposed to be in your
sweet embrace two years ago. And we know that every time we’ve announced a
show since then, you’ve been like, but what the fuck?! And so, here—here we are.
And I mean, dare I say it, I think—


Jenny: The show of shows!
Kristin: I mean, I think you’re getting truly the show of shows. So Saturday night
is gonna be mostly music. Also, I don’t know if you’ve heard, but we’re really good
at PowerPoint presentations, so like, we might—[Jenny laughs] we might unearth
our now infamous PowerPoint presentation at the show. But Jenny, you’re gonna be
singing Bad Girls and Faith, Hope and Trick.
Jenny: Oh, yes.
Kristin: And a new song—
Jenny: Oh, yes.
Kristin: Called Dirty Girls, with—with somebody. Not me.
Jenny: Our voice of Faith Lehane.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Jess Abbott.
Kristin: For the first time ever.
Jenny: Yeah. It’s gonna be really, really awesome.
Kristin: It’s gonna be really fun. My favorite part is gonna be when, in one of these
songs, you give me a glockenspiel part so that all three of us can perform together.
All three of us [Jenny laughs] can perform together, a song about Buffy and Faith.
Prob—I mean, tell me a gayer thing. Like—
Jenny: And thus the prophecy shall be fulfilled! [both laugh]
Kristin: Name me a gayer thing than this. And Sunday—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Of course, we will be doing a live recording of our episode, for Season 7,
Episode 18, Dirty Girls. It’s gonna be really fun, we’re really excited. And the tickets
go on sale for our patrons first, as always, tomorrow, Thursday, April 21st, at 10 AM
eastern standard time. So if you’re in Chicago, that means it’s 9 AM, Thursday, April
21st, okay? The show is Saturday and Sunday, July 23rd and 24th. Tickets presale,


April 21st, 9 AM central, 10 AM eastern. If you are not a patron, the tickets will go
on sale to the public on Friday, April 22nd, at 1 PM eastern, noon central. All details
can be found on Lincoln Hall’s website, which is LH-ST.com. You can also just go to
bufferingthevampireslayer.com and click on our Calendar. You can find it all there,
July 23rd and 24th. The ticketing links and all of that stuff. Okay, so Chicago, we’re
coming to you. Now, New York City, you know that we also need to come to you,
right?
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: We don’t have all the details yet, but we wanna just give you a heads up
that our plan is to come to you this September. So we hope to have all of the
details for you, New York City, in the next couple of weeks. Stay tuned for those
announcements, but for now—I mean, Jesus. Have we ever had a bigger fucking
intro? A book deal and a fucking two-night Buffy and Faith show in Chicago?
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: Holy shit.
Jenny: It’s all coming together, Kristin.
Kristin: It really is. I can’t even believe you have to take that and now go into the
Sexual Tension Awards.
Jenny: We-e-e-ell! Listen, it’s a pretty exciting time over in the Sexual Tension
Awards as well.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Kristin. Pretty big week. [Kristin laughs] And pretty close race, honestly,
given the—some of the very skewed results we’ve gotten recently. In fourth place,
all the way down in fourth place, with 20% of the vote, it’s Anya and bad, bad
demons!
Kristin: [laughs] This was, like, maybe the closest four-way that we’ve ever had. I
mean, it’s—they’re all pretty high.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Pretty close. Pretty close.
Kristin: Yeah.


Jenny: The next two couplings—
Kristin: Mmhmm. Mmhmm.
Jenny: Are tied, and I believe the way that works—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Is that we say they are tied for second place. Right?
Kristin: Yes. I think that—I thought you were gonna say, I think the way that this
works is that actually, they’re now a threesome. And I was like, yes, correct, that is
the math. [laughs]
Jenny: That’s also…possible. Each with 22% of the vote, we have Anya and Willow.
And Anya and Kennedy. Or if you like, with 44% of the vote, Anya, Willow and
Kennedy. [both laugh]
Kristin: Yeah. So maybe they actually did win. Who’s to say?
Jenny: Maybe. But…the numbers that we have to go off of, without considering
throuple absorption, [Kristin laughs] leads me to tell you that in first place with
36% of the vote, it’s Xandrew, Xandrew, Xandrew!
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Thank you so much to all 547 of you who voted in our Twitter poll. You
rock.
Kristin: You really do. Congratulations to Xandrew. Um—
Jenny: Unbelievable.
Kristin: Hey, how about an email? We just rolled out of Easter weekend, and we
got a really holiday-specific email, related to, I’m sure no surprise to you, Anya,
from our listener TJ that I thought I would read to us. The subject of the email was
“thoughts on Anya’s leporiphobia,” which means fear of rabbits.
Jenny: Ooh. Ooh!
Kristin: Okay, so TJ was reading this article about the pagan origins of Easter, from
the Smithsonian magazine and came across an interesting paragraph. TJ says,


“From—” This is a quote from the article. “The eating of the hare may have been
associated with various longstanding folk traditions of scaring away witches at
Easter. Throughout northern Europe, folk traditions record a strong belief that
witches would often take the form of a hare, usually for causing mischief, such
as—” This is my favorite part. “Stealing milk from neighbors’ cows.” [laughs]
Jenny: Totally. Totally.
Kristin: Such a prank! From those rabbits. [both laugh] “Witches in medieval
Europe were said to be able to suck out the life energy of others, making them ill.”
TJ says, “Could Anya’s lingering leporiphobia be an unconscious remnant of her
Scandinavian culture? We know that Anya no longer consciously bears ill will or fear
for witches. I would posit that her millennium as a vengeance demon sufficiently
opened her mind, heart and spirit such that she would no longer be prejudiced
against witches consciously. However, could it be that the leporiphobia remains as
an unconscious prejudice she adopted thousands of years ago to make meaning of
the tragedy that would come to define her existence as Anyanka the vengeance
demon?” Solid.
Jenny: Uh, yes. I love the read of vengeance demons, known for their open minds,
hearts and spirits. [both laugh]
Kristin: Just a delightful—I mean, and you know, discuss amongst yourselves, but
I love this theory. This, so far, might be my favorite—
Jenny: [simultaneously] Yeah, this is great.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Bunny theory for Anya. [Jenny laughs] And timed really
well, with the Easter holiday, so. [laughs]
Jenny: Indeed.
Kristin: Speaking of—before we roll into the episode, the last thing I wanna say.
First of all, thank you, TJ, for this wonderful email.
Jenny: Mmhmm!
Kristin: And if you’re into listening to us read your brilliant emails, this is a note
that patrons—we’re gonna finally be recording the mailbag episode that you’ve
deserved for quite some time now, next Friday. So we’ll open up the form that is
special for patrons. You can submit your questions, your comments, your theories,


your fucking thesises, whatever you want. And we’ll be recording that episode and
putting it up on Patreon—
Jenny: Woo!
Kristin: In the next couple of weeks. Cool?
Jenny: Nice. Nice. Nice!
Kristin: Well, Jenny. Now I believe it’s…
Jenny: [gasps] [dramatically] Showtime! [Kristin laughs]
[Buffering theme plays]
Jenny: Hello! A-a-a-a-and welcome! To Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast
where we are watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer,
one by one, spoiler free, in tandem with those gals I’d definitely never decapitate
with a bit of wire I found laying around a construction site, Angel On Top!
Kristin: Wow, okay, well, I would also not do that one. [Jenny laughs] Usually I like
to counter you with the fact that I would do the opposite, but that’s a little—that’s a
little violent, for me. [both laugh] I am—
Jenny: I. Am. Jenny Owen Youngs, damnit!
Kristin: Oh, sorry.
Jenny: Kristin!
Kristin: So sorry. [Jenny laughs] And I…am Kristin Russo. And this week—
Jenny: Mmm!
Kristin: Hey, we’re talking about Buffy, Season 7, Episode 11, Showtime. Stay—
Jenny: Oh, no, sorry, Kristin. The law actually states that you have to—you can
only say the title of this episode…in the following manner—
Kristin: [simultaneously] When I—if I do jazz hands? [laughs]
Jenny: [dramatically] Showtime!


Kristin: [laughs] Okay, okay, okay.
Jenny: You have to say it like that. That’s the rule.
Kristin: Okay, alright, rewind the tape. This week, we’re talking about Buffy,
Season 7, Episode 11, [dramatically] Showtime!
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: Was it good?
Jenny: Very good, A plus.
Kristin: Did I meet the terms of my contract?
Jenny: Oh, yes. Your contract has been fulfilled.
Kristin: Thank you so much. Stay tuned at the end of this podcast every other
week for an original song, written by Jenny—although recently, really written by
Jenny and I. I feel like we’ve been doing a lot of collaborating lately. I would like
some credit.
Jenny: The credit is yours!
Kristin: [laughs] Recapping the Buffy episode that we are discussing. Also, before
you jump into your little part of this intro, Jenny, I wanna say that when you were
saying “we’ll be watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer,”
my mind thought, “where we’ll be watching and discussing every gorram episode of
Buffy the Vampire Slayer” which—
Jenny: Wooww!
Kristin: Comes from Firefly, which I just finished watching in our Patreon watch. So
now you know it, like, got in deep. It, like, popped right in there.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Yeah, it’s got its little hooks in there.
Kristin: Yeah, it does.
Jenny: Just as I hoped and planned and dreamed. Well, Kristin, [dramatically]
Showtime! Was written by David Fury, directed by Michael Grossman, and originally


aired—are you ready—on January 7th, 2003. [Kristin gasps] We have entered the
final calendar year of the show.
Kristin: Wow. Confetti, streamers fly. [Jenny laughs] Happy New Year!
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: Oh, the 00s were such a great time for New Years Eve glasses. You know?
They’ll never—they’re not gonna have a time like that again until we’re in the
3000s.
Jenny: Yep, yep.
Kristin: Should we make it there, which we all know, we won’t, so. [both laugh]
So—
Jenny: And if we do, let’s perhaps hope—let’s dream a dream—
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: That we’ll have done away with the tradition of annual glasses. [both laugh]
Kristin: I just love the way they try to make the twos work now, around your eye.
Come on, guys.
Jenny: Uh-huh. Uh-huh.
Kristin: Alright. This is the one where Buffy has to keep the ever-increasing
number of potential Slayers from panicking, while Giles and Anya seek answers
from Beljoxa’s Eye, otherwise known as Botox’s Eye.
Jenny: Mmhmm. Mmhmm.
Kristin: Wow. Can’t wait to talk about that fucking thing, which—if you listen to the
episode that we did before this one, you know that Jenny told everyone to go check
out the JPEG on Hulu. [clears throat] And it was Beljoxa’s Eye. Beljoxa’s many eyes,
really. I guess—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: All of those eyes make up the one eye of Beljoxa.


Jenny: Mmm. A compound eye, if you will.
Kristin: Dying to talk about how Beljoxa speaks. With all those eyes. You know?
It’s like, 10,000 eyes when all you need is a mouth. Is—[both laugh]
Jenny: Isn’t it eye-ronic? [both laugh]
Kristin: Oh no! [both laughing] Wow. Starting off strong.
Jenny: So, previously on Buffy the Vampire Slayer, a bunch of stuff—so much
happened, I don’t even wanna get into it. The only thing I wanna make a note of is
that I didn’t clock it, watching the previous episode. But Dawn seems a little salty
that there are suddenly all these gals in her age rage around, who all are potential
Slayers.
Kristin: Honestly, I feel like she’s doing a good job. Like, I—Dawn is queen—
Jenny: No, she’s doing a good job.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Totally.
Kristin: It’s just like, queen of “get out, get out, get out” [Jenny laughs] has, like,
actually kept a lid on this whole time and there’s like—
Jenny: Totally.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: But there is just, like, one moment in the Previouslys where you can just
see it peeking through a little bit. [Kristin laughs] That she might start screaming
“get out” at all of them, at any moment.
Kristin: All of us are, like, constantly on guard for Dawn screaming “get out, get
out, get out.” You know.
Jenny: I’d like to start this episode with a little roll call. Okay?
Kristin: [laughs] Okay.


Jenny: ‘Cause we’ve got some new Potentials. We had a Potential casualty last
episode.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: I’d love to just go over where we are and who is with us at this moment.
Kristin: [singing to the tune of Mambo Number 5] One, two, three-four-five!
[mumbles] [Jenny laughs] You know what I mean?
Jenny: I do know what you mean. [laughs]
Kristin: Good. And it was vague enough where, like, only a handful of people who
were alive exactly during the time that we were alive will know what I mean. [both
laugh] Go ahead, Jenny. Take us through.
Jenny: We’ve got kinda the star player of the episode, where the Potentials are
concerned: Eve.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Played by Amanda Fuller.
Kristin: Yeah, she’s been in a lot of stuff.
Jenny: Like what?
Kristin: Well, most notably—I didn’t watch all the way through Orange is the New
Black, but apparently Amanda Fuller was one of the, like, primary—
Jenny: Ohhh.
Kristin: Villains in Season 6 and 7 of Orange is the New Black.
Jenny: Oh, dang.
Kristin: And her resume is quite long.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Dang, there was seven seasons of that show? Whew.
Kristin: I know, I know. I kinda—


Jenny: Oops.
Kristin: There was a moment—if you’ve watched the show—there was a moment
that was in, I believe, one of the finales where I said, I’m—no more of this for me.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: I think a lot of people may have done that. So.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: I didn’t get to meet Amanda Fuller, but she has a long resume.
Jenny: Alright, alright, alright. Left over from last episode, we have Molly, played
by Clara Bryant. Which, if you couldn’t tell from her accent, is from Glendale.
[Kristin laughs] Glendale, California.
Kristin: I like Molly’s accent because I feel like it is of a—like, she’s not doing an
English accent. She’s doing a Spice Girls accent.
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: You know what I mean? [laughs]
Jenny: Totally! Yes. A hundred percent. [both laugh] We also have a face I’m sure
a lot of you will recognize, even if you’re watching for the first time. We have Felicia
Day—
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: In the role of Vi. Okay. And then, we have three more Potentials that are
essentially, I think, the largest simultaneous injection of characters of color into this
show—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: At one time.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Still hanging in there from last episode, Iyari Limon, who is Mexican
American, playing Kennedy.


Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: We have newcomer Lalaine, playing Chloe. She’s Filipino American, and also
a Disney kid.
Kristin: I was gonna say. This is a little younger than I am to have clocked her, but
she played Lizzie McGuire’s best friend, Miranda Sanchez. [Jenny laughs] That’s a
big deal. She was in, like, a bajillion episodes of Lizzie McGuire.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: So if you’re, like, a little—probably if you’re just, like, a touch younger than
us, you were like, I know who this is.
Jenny: [laughs] No wonder Dawn is pissed. [both laugh]
Kristin: Yeah, seriously. This is, like—Chloe is definitely the biggest direct threat.
[laughs] To Dawn.
Jenny: And then we’ve got Rona, played by Indigo.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Who also was in—are you ready for this?
Kristin: I think I might know.
Jenny: You might already know—
Kristin: Tell me.
Jenny: Seasons 1 and 2, at least, of Weeds—
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Playing Vaneeta.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Indigo was in an episode of television that I—[Kristin laughs] a song I wrote
and sang was also in.


Kristin: This is the second—!
Jenny: Which feels…very cool.
Kristin: This is the second time this has happened. This just happened with that
vamp that Spike killed at The Bronze, who was in Fifty Shades of Gray that you had
a song in.
Jenny: Oh, yeah! [both laugh] Wow. Wow. Yeah, I guess Season 7 of Buffy is really
my time for crossover. [laughs]
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah, Vaneeta—so, like, you know, a lot of the Potentials, I looked
up what they had been in and what have you. And I was like, oh, that makes—like,
I recognize that or I recognize that but I didn’t, like, recognize them. But Indigo as
Vaneeta on Weeds, that is a role that I remember very, very, very deeply.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: I loved the first few seasons of Weeds. And yeah. And she’s great. Also,
since we’ve gotten to Rona—are you done with your roll call?
Jenny: I’m done with my roll call. That’s the whole squad. Potentials assemble.
Kristin: [laughs] I just wanna give a shoutout to Rona’s outfit on arrival, because I
fucking love it. This is a 2003—
Jenny: [simultaneously] Good outfit.
Kristin: Look. These baggy overalls, you know? Like, just—
Jenny: Baggy overalls. Kind of, like, a smaller cardigan—
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Kinda deal.
Kristin: It’s good.
Jenny: Backpack. Very good vibe. How many times do you think we’ve had an
episode either open or come back from the credits on the shot of a bus door at the


Sunnydale bus terminal opening, revealing the steps, and then various sets of feet
and legs—
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Walking down them.
Kristin: Honestly, usually not a lot of people getting off of the buses at the
Sunnydale depot. [both laugh] It’s usually just one.
Jenny: Yeah, usually the door opens. And the camera goes up the stairs and we
see a bloodbath or…
Kristin: Yeah, that’s true. Oh, yeah. I forgot about that. Okay, so I just—I just need
to talk about one small det—so, we’re in the first scene now, right? That’s where
we’ve landed.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: ‘Cause Rona has arrived, she’s traveled by bus. She’s coming down the
steps of the bus. The Bringers are there. Because, as we will learn in a following
scene, they now know that the Potential Slayers are going to Sunnydale. I also
have recovered from last episode’s confusion of why the Slayers would be going to
the Hellmouth. Because Buffy says it. She’s like, I’m here to protect—like, I guess
they’re gonna get—they’re being chased no matter where they are.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And so being in a large fighting group with the Slayer is probably the
safest they could be.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Yeah.
Kristin: So I retract my disbelief and horror from last episode. But. [Jenny laughs]
The reason I’m saying all of this is ‘cause the Bringers are there, they’re gonna try
to kill Rona, fine. We can talk about it. But what I wanna talk about, Jenny, first, is
that before Rona got off the bus, one of the fucking Bringers flipped his little fucking
hands—[Jenny cackles] flipped through the fucking Yellow Book pages to
Summers—
Jenny: [high-pitched] I know!


Kristin: [simultaneously] And tore out just half the piece of paper. [laughs]
Jenny: The attention to detail.
Kristin: I mean— [laughs]
Jenny: The “no prank is too small” vibe of this is so good. They’re just like, well,
we’ve got our first line of defense. [both laugh] We’ll remove this page of the
phonebook.
Kristin: [laughing] I died!
Jenny: Second line of defense, we’ll kill her.
Kristin: [simultaneously] We’ll kill her. [both laugh] I fucking died. I, like—I can’t. I
just—it’s so good to me that—[both laugh]
Jenny: How about Buffy just absolutely whaling on these Bringers? They didn’t
stand a chance! That shot where all three of them are standing between the two
buses and she just grabs them by the scruff of their necks and whips them off into
opposite directions.
Kristin: Yeah, I—you know. I’m—we don’t have the tools to do this proper kind of
Hell-math, but I do have to say that the math here on the strength inside of the
Slayer feels a little wiggly to me.
Jenny: Sure, yeah.
Kristin: [laughs] I feel like, especially with Turok-Han, but—
Jenny: Depends who’s writing the episode. [laughing] Buffy’s strength wobbles a
little bit.
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah, a little wobbly. But yeah, it’s a good move. I mean, I love to
see her pick up multiple evil dudes and throw them across the screen, so.
Jenny: I have a question that is relevant to some Rona and Buffy dialogue that
starts here, and then kind of the thread continues throughout the episode.
Personally, when I—like, on previous watches of the show, I can remember being
frustrated with pretty much all the Potentials. Similar to the way that I was
frustrated with Dawn.


Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: I feel like I was already attached to the core Scoobies—
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And was like, who are—like, first, who is this one new kid, and now who are
all these new kids? Oh my gosh.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: But on this watch, I’m finding them a lot more relatable. And I think it
might have something to do with the way that we talk about the show. Because I
feel like, watching in a vacuum, I’m just like, okay, I accept all the rules of the
world. [Kristin laughs] But the Potentials, you know, are—they are so new to
everything, in most cases. And so they have a lot of very practical questions. Like,
“You think I’m gonna get attacked again?” [laughs]
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: There will be a second attack, possibly?
Kristin: Fucking Rona—I mean, we’ll go into it later. But like, learning in this
episode that—I mean, this is a big deal for all of them. But like, learning that Rona
literally just learned that she was a fucking Slayer? Like, she didn’t even have a
Watcher assigned to her? Like—and then she’s just taking a bus to Sunnydale?
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And then these eye-less dudes are attacking—like, that’s a lot.
Jenny: Mmhmm. It’s a lot to adjust to. Rona’s also kind of functioning as the
audience surrogate for people who just started the series at Season 7, Episode 11.
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah. Yeah. “So, what happens when a Slayer dies? Okay.” [Jenny
laughs] Yeah, and to your—I mean to that point, Jenny—the larger point that you
were making. I thought a lot about that, watching this episode, that it is so hard to
come into the show at this point. So hard—
Jenny: Oh my god, yeah.


Kristin: [simultaneously] And you’re not even the only person coming in. Like,
there’s just—it feels like a really big decision for the show to make at this stage.
And also, a lot of pressure on these actors, because you just—you gravitate towards
the things that you know, as a viewer. And it’s always hard—like it was with
Dawn—still, for some of you. I’m fully Team Dawn, I love her so much. But you
know, there are a lot of Buffy viewers who just, like, fucking hate Dawn, still. And
it’s—and I would posit that it’s because she was a newer addition to the show, you
didn’t get to grow with her. So this is a hard lift for these Potentials. But—
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And I—in a macro sense, I have that room for them. I also, like, enjoy—I
enjoy them. The way that we’re watching it, I’m enjoying them. But I feel like this
episode in particular—everyone needed to, like, maybe say just a little—just a
little—maybe not everyone. [Jenny laughs] Eve needed to say nothing. [Jenny
laughs] But there was a lot of—there was a lot of, like, opinions that felt—like, that
made me feel like, had I been on the Hellmouth fighting evil for seven seasons—six
seasons, that I’d be like, okay, listen. I can’t give you all the answers, but also, I
need just, like, a little bit more room to show you what we do here, before you’re,
like, challenging everything. A lot of that came from Eve—
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: But also, like, I have a moment with Kennedy and Willow that I wanna talk
about. Because I felt upset about it. So did Willow. [laughs]
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: So.
Jenny: So. After the credits, Kristin, do you know where we are?
Kristin: We’re in Willow’s room, formerly Buffy’s room.
Jenny: [voice intentionally cracking] We are in Willow’s room! [Kristin laughs]
Things are happening. Plans have been laid.
Kristin: Mmhmm…
Jenny: And also, uh, stumbling blocks to those plans have also been countered.


Kristin: The sleeping bag that you mentioned in last week’s episodes is now being
used for Willow to sleep in. [both laugh]
Jenny: Yes, Willow is sleeping on the floor of her own bedroom, even though…we
don’t know exactly—here’s something to talk about. We don’t know exactly how old
Kennedy is, but we know she is, quote, old enough that she was starting to think
she was too old to be called as a Slayer.
Kristin: Yeah. And I think that they’ve written Kennedy to occupy space in a way
that lets us know she’s one of the older girls there.
Jenny: Yes. But probably not as old as Willow. And Willow’s aching back deserves
to sleep in a bed.
Kristin: [laughs] I mean…
Jenny: Just one podcaster’s opinion.
Kristin: But listen, let’s think about Willow and really—like, you know what
happened here, is that Willow was like, [Jenny laughs] “I’m gonna sleep on the
floor.” And Kennedy was like, “Just sleep in the bed with me, it’s chill.” And Willow
was like, “No, no, definitely I should sleep on the floor.” And then probably Kennedy
was like, “I’ll sleep on the floor if you want me to.” And Willow was like, “No, no, no,
don’t do that. You should definitely take the bed. I love the floor.” Like, I feel like
this is all Willow’s doing and none of Kennedy’s. And—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Willow’s uncomfortable. Which like, listen, I don’t know. But to me, if you
are not attracted to a person and you feel whatever—like, you’re gonna share a bed
with them ‘cause it’s not even gonna be a thing. You know? Like, to me, the fact
that she is so resolutely on that floor is maybe a little signal that perhaps she’s
picking up some vibes that she’s worried she might—you know. Act on.
Jenny: Mmm!
Kristin: I posit it.
Jenny: I…yes.
Kristin: Kennedy is also making a very great observation. “We need another
bathroom.” [laughs] Because—


Jenny: Yeah, there’s only one bathroom in this house?
Kristin: I guess, with two doors? There’s not even a half bath on the first floor of
this house? This is a big house for one bathroom.
Jenny: I feel like there’s gotta be a half bath on the first—right?
Kristin: I mean, I don’t know. It probably was there at one point, but during one of
the many attacks from various demons, like, is all busted up.
Jenny: Sure, sure, or it used to be there and then it became…Dawn’s room. [both
laugh]
Kristin: Yeah. So…we also learn that Kennedy has many houses.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And one of them has many wings and the other one is a house in the
Hamptons.
Jenny: Mmhmm!
Kristin: Willow’s like, “Interesting development, interesting.”
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: “Go on.” And then Kennedy is like, “But tell me about you.” Kennedy has
full—listen. Iyari Limon, like, maybe she’s never had a flirtatious sleepover with
another girl, but she’s doing a great job. I believe her, in her energy. This is very
much like, we’re just two girls! Hanging out!
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Tell me all of your feelings about this and that. And then, like, we could
practice kissing, if you want.
Jenny: For boys!
Kristin: For boys.


Jenny: How are you feeling about Kennedy? Kennedy, a polarizing figure in the
fandom. I’m curious, where do you stand?
Kristin: So I feel like it’s too—a little too soon for me to, like, really talk about
Kennedy in the way that I want to. But what I will say is that I am 90% here for
Kennedy. I think that—I think that we are not used to having a character interact
with Willow in a flirtatious way that is direct. I think we are not used to having
somebody be as direct as Kennedy is, this quickly. Except for fucking Anya, I guess.
[both laugh] And I also—but I also—this episode gave me a little pause, because I
really, really did not like the way that Kennedy talked about witchcraft with Willow. I
thought it was—it didn’t make sense to me, to be honest. Like, we know so little
about Kennedy right now. But everything that Kennedy put on the table last episode
and then 80% of what she put on the table this episode didn’t really add up to her
being that disrespectful towards witchcraft. She’s a fucking Potential Slayer. She’s
been using a crossbow since she’s eight. Why would she talk about witchcraft like
this? So I kind of have that in the writer gripes rather than the Kennedy gripes,
but—
Jenny: Do you mean when she calls it “new-agey?”
Kristin: No, I mean—sure, but that was, like, the least offense. She’s like, “Show
me a trick.” Like, in this scene.
Jenny: Kristin. You don’t think she’s like, [flirtatiously] “Show me a trick.”
Kristin: [laughs] She doesn’t say it sexily, Jenny. She says, show me a trick, like,
pull a rabbit out of a hat. Or whatever what—you think she was being flirtatious?
Jenny: Uh, I think she was just like, how can I get Willow talking and keep Willow
talking, and da-da-da-da-da.
Kristin: That’s fine and I have some—
Jenny: [simultaneously] It is weird, given that she is the one who seems to have,
like, the most training and stuff—
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: That she seems oblivious to what’s up with magic.
Kristin: I just think that—


Jenny: But maybe she has a Watcher who’s, you know—
Kristin: Anti-magic?
Jenny: [simultaneously] Got a very specific—
Kristin: Yeah. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Maybe. Because I think that, like—I mean, I have a little—clearly, anyone
who’s tried to flirt with anyone else has room for saying an inappropriate thing.
‘Cause you get a little stumbly and you say things you don’t mean to say ‘cause
you’re just trying to keep the conversation going. But I just think that Kennedy
probably has the tools to ask about magic in a way that would—like, would really
engage Willow, and would really get Willow to talk about witchcraft. So I just felt a
little bit upset with her in this episode, for that. And the rest of what I need to say,
I gotta wait for.
Jenny: Okay. Also, just wanna cite that this actor is 26 at this moment in history.
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: She—and you know, it’s like, Iyari holds two—like, she’s holding two
things, coming to this show. She has, like, the Riley of it all. Maybe even worse
than Riley has it.
Jenny: So much worse than Riley ever could have dreamed of having it, I think.
[laughs]
Kristin: Because Tara died, and it was this hugely traumatic thing for the viewers of
the show, especially the queer ones. And she’s also a person of color in the show.
And I think that there are a lot of people that may come with some assumptions
about Kennedy based on that fact.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: And so that’s—those are the things that, like, we’re gonna—so, nod to
everyone who’s seen the show. Like, we are definitely gonna talk about this more, I


think is what we’re trying to say. But this is already a big lift that’s put on
Kennedy’s shoulders.
Jenny: Can I tell you a little bit of trivia?
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Did you know…Kristin, king of the gays, that Iyari auditioned for the role of
Carmen on The L Word?
Kristin: What?
Jenny: And did you also know—
Kristin: What?!
Jenny: That apparently, in her audition, she ad-libbed something that she
whispered into Kate Moennig’s ear, which was something to the effect of, uhh, “I
want to…make you cum over and over again with my mouth.” Something in that
ballpark.
Kristin: It was like, the effort that Jenny put in to making that absolutely not sexy
was—like, you really, really worked for that. [laughs]
Jenny: Yes. Oh, but in Spanish. That line, although she did not get the role—that
line that she ad-libbed ended up getting written into the script.
Kristin: Are you fucking kidding me?!
Jenny: Such is the legend that the internet told me last night.
Kristin: Wow. Great trivia. Alright. Let’s go downstairs. [Jenny laughs] Molly is
talking to the new recruits about Annabelle, RIP. Eve is already on her bullshit. Let
me tell you about my goldfish fucking brain, okay. [Jenny laughs] I’ve seen this
episode in the past. I saw it in the fucking distant—like, the distant past and the
near past. And I still watched this whole time being like, what is with this one?
[Jenny laughs] I can’t deal with this one. And then the reveal, I was like, [gasps]
oh! I forgot. [both laugh]
Jenny: [laughing] Oh my god.


Kristin: So like, a lot of my notes, I kind of had to re-contextualize because I was
mostly like, “shut up, Eve. God, Eve.” [both laugh] Forgetting that she was the First
the whole time, so. Anyway—
Jenny: Yeah, Eve is sowing the seeds of doubt.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: These girls will simply not let Xander sleep and they also simply will not talk
loud enough for Andrew to overhear everything they say. [both laugh]
Kristin: Roma and Buffy walk in and everyone’s like, “Hi, Rona!” It’s like we’re on a
children’s show and, like, the new kid has walked in.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Rona, great first question, “Why is that guy tied to a chair?” Like, Rona’s
being asked to process a lot, all at once. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah. Xander, excellent reply, “The question you’ll soon be asking is,
why isn’t he gagged?” [both laugh]
Kristin: Anya—everybody’s getting home in the middle of the night. Anya and Giles
get back from where they were. They’ve got some information. And in the
meantime, Molly is put on “show Rona the kitchen” duty.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Okay, so this is where we learn that the Bringers know that the Potentials
are arriving in Sunnydale. Anya has spoken with the demon community.
Xander—this was—so, let me tell you how I feel, Jenny. Because last week, you
were like, “I feel like two episodes—or, like, more than one episode was smushed
into one episode.” And I feel like…this was less than an episode. Like, you know
what I mean?
Jenny: Mmm! Yeah, a little bit, mmhmm. A little lumpy.
Kristin: [simultaneously] That they could have really just sort of moved some
things around here. And perhaps we would have gotten, like, two great episodes.
And instead we got, like, this…I don’t know. But Xander says, “They’re a community
now?” Which is such a weird line from him, for so many reasons. And it’s also kind
of, like—it feels like the, “oh, like, gays are a community now?” Like—


Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: It just feels like it’s rooted in this weird place. I don’t know why he has the
line, but I just wanted to say that out loud.
Jenny: He also mentions the concept of a demon lady’s auxiliary, which, uhh…
Kristin: Mm?
Jenny: He didn’t mean, but I am on board with.
Kristin: Wasn’t there a point in time where Xander was, like, a stripper for a lady’s
auxiliary, or something?
Jenny: Uh, he was a stripper for ladies.
Kristin: They didn’t have a club? He was just a general stripper for general ladies?
Jenny: It was a strip club. [both laugh]
Kristin: Okay.
Jenny: All ladies, no auxiliary. [both laugh]
Kristin: Okay.
Jenny: Giles doesn’t have any answers. He doesn’t know how Buffy can hurt the
First. He doesn’t know how she can kill the Turok-Han.
Kristin: I really feel like Eve slash the First is just enjoying using a southern
accent, you know? Like, I feel like the First—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Is really rolling around in that. Eve is like, [southern accent] “Spiiike.
[Jenny laughs] Isn’t he evil?” [both laughing] Like, it’s a very drawn out—
Jenny: Dude, also, it’s like the First is, like, realizing all through this episode that
humans have eyebrows they can move, [Kristin laughs] for the first time.
God…bless her. But Amanda Fuller is going absolutely buckwild with her eyebrows


for the entire episode. [both laugh] Go back and rewatch it. You will not be
disappointed.
Kristin: Oh my god. So Buffy tries to explain that it’s complicated. There’s no
better way to explain why we’re trying to save Spike, except it’s complicated. And
then Giles, bucking Anya’s no—Anya said do not say this. And Giles just totally goes
over her head and said, there is Bajox—[laughs] what is it? I spelled it wrong in my
notes.
Jenny: Beljoxa’s Eye.
Kristin: Beljoxa’s Eye. I wrote “bajox’s” in this one part and got confused. But
Buffy, just like me, refers to it as not itself, but as botox’s eye.
Jenny: [laughs] Eugh.
Kristin: [sighs] So. This sack of eyeballs is in what is referred to as an internal
vortex?
Jenny: Sure!
Kristin: Okay.
Jenny: Only demons can enter. They need to find a demon willing to do them a
favor.
Kristin: Yeah. It shouldn’t—they’re, like, really hemming and hawing. And I’m like,
really, guys? I—it just can’t be that hard.
Jenny: Where’s Clem!?
Kristin: Literally, where’s Clem? Mmhmm.
Jenny: [simultaneously] [chanting] Where is Clem? Where is Clem?
Kristin: God, the last time Clem was asked to do something, he brought Dawn to
fucking Rack’s. So he might not actually be—
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: Into it. ‘Cause that was pretty traumatic for everyone involved. Okay.


Jenny: Over at the torture caves.
Kristin: Yes, chanty caves.
Jenny: Spike is having a little daydream about escaping his bonds and then
running into Buffy and them smiling at each other. Aww, Spike.
Kristin: Spike fights good in general, but he fights great in his dreams. He, like,
does this neck-snap with his legs in his dream that is really—
Jenny: [simultaneously] Oh, yeah. Very hot.
Kristin: Yeah, really, really good. And this begins kind of the chorus of Spike
throughout the episode, which is, “She will come for me.” And the First, as Buffy
now, says, “No, I won’t.” The First is such a little…such a little…
Jenny: Shit-starter? [laughs]
Kristin: There’s a word I’m looking for, I swear.
Jenny: An imp?
Kristin: [laughs] I guess shit-starter will just have to do.
Jenny: Yeah. How about, Kristin…[laughs] the first of many—this kind of note that I
have for this episode. How about the First saying, “Oh, Buffy doesn’t believe in
herself to come, you know, try to fight that, to get to you?” And as she says “that”
she gestures to…[both laugh] to the Turok-Han, who is just kind of pacing in an
oval. And who kind of, like, just as she’s saying that, like—it’s like—it reminded me
of, like, a musical? Where like, there’s kind of a ringleader character. And then all of
these sub-characters are kind of, like, dancing around in a circle. [Kristin laughs]
And then the ringleader will be like—
Kristin: [simultaneously] Showtime!
Jenny: Exactly! And like, that—one of the characters will, like, be at the front of the
circling at that moment and do a pose at the audience. And maybe, like, you know,
a little kick or something. The Turok-Han does exactly that, on cue. He, like, growls
and mugs. [laughs]
Kristin: His little outfit. Like, I can’t.


Jenny: The outfit gets stupider and stupider, the more I see it.
Kristin: Stupider and stupider! It’s—I just—
Jenny: Kristin!
Kristin: I can’t get—I can’t wrap my head around how this was given an okay. And
not—
Jenny: Who is responsible for the Turok-Han?
Kristin: It’s like, the face of the Turok-Han is pretty bad. But like, if that’s all we
saw was some shoulders, like, maybe you could almost forgive it. But the fact that
we see his little fucking body, moving around all over Sunnydale. [Jenny laughs] I
just don’t—it’s the funniest—I mean, I’m happy about it because I die. But in terms
of, like, adding gravity to the fucking trouble, I just—it’s—ohh, it’s funny.
Jenny: Whew!
Kristin: Alright, let’s go hang out with Torg in the alleyway.
Jenny: Take me to the Sunnydale back alleys.
Kristin: I had so many locations in this episode. I have an alley and a street, you
know. [Jenny laughs] I had a kitchen and a cave. [laughs]
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: So yeah, there’s a lot happening. So Torg is a demon that Anya decides
she’s gonna ask to open this portal, even though the last time they’ve seen each
other, it was when they were both invited to the same massacre and they had sex
and then Torg was in love and Anya was like, byeee!
Jenny: A tale as old as time that almost always starts at a massacre.
Kristin: Yes, almost always. And Torg is like, “No! Like, you broke my heart. How
dare you come back here? I’m just minding my own business, running this facility.”
Where does he work? Is it a pizza place? I don’t remember, but. [both laugh]
Jenny: Unclear.


Kristin: Anya says—so honestly, MVP of this fucking scene is fucking Tony Head, as
Giles. Because I can’t. He’s so funny, watching this exchange. He’s just like, what is
gonna come out of this person’s mouth next? [both laugh] And Anya’s like, “If you
open the portal, I’ll have sex with you,” and Giles’ face is like, okay. I mean, sure,
let’s see what happens now. [both laugh] Let’s see where this goes.
Jenny: I love that he’s like, “Disgusting. You’re human now. This is the most
repulsive proposal I’ve ever received.” And Anya says, “I can’t even give it away.
What am I, a leper?” And then Torg says—in a way where if you’re not paying close
attention, you might miss it. Torg says, “Come back when you are a leper.”
Kristin: [laughs] I would prefer you—yes. Oh, then our favorite fucking theme in
the whole series, when Anya asks Giles about her hair and if it is the thing that
makes her less sexually attractive. [laughs] Giles meanwhile has fixed the issue,
because he’s like, okay. How about if you don’t wanna have sex with Anya, maybe
you should open the portal because if you don’t, then the Slayer will kill you and
burn your business to the ground. [laughs]
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And he’s like, okay. So in they go to the—what did I call it? An internal
vortex?
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: Yeah. What a weird name. And it’s very, like—when you go to the place
where Janet lives on The Good Place. It’s like that—it feels like that. Like a total
shift, except for when you see Janet, it’s usually all white and when we went to the
internal vortex, it was all black.
Jenny: Mm, mmhmm. Mmhmm!
Kristin: Well, there she is, isn’t she? Beljoxa’s Eye. [Jenny laughs] Who do you
think Beljoxa is?
Jenny: You know—
Kristin: And did she have two of these at one point, and this is one, detached from
her body?
Jenny: Is there a particular reason that you are leaning towards gendering Beljoxa
female? I’m just curious if I missed a detail.


Kristin: [simultaneously] I don’t know. I don’t know. In the words of Dawn
Summers, because girls are cooler. [laughs]
Jenny: On Buffyfandom.com, Beljoxa’s Eye is pronoun’ed as “it.”
Kristin: Okay. Fine.
Jenny: A creature.
Kristin: A creature made of eyeballs. [sighs]
Jenny: Yep, yep, suspended for some reason, up in the air.
Kristin: This also kind of gave me, like, Twin Peaks-y vibes. Not the eyeballs of it
all, but like, the rest of it. I don’t know, something about the way it was shot and,
like, the way—I don’t know. You—you’re all smarter than me—
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: You can tell me.
Jenny: I see what you mean. I also was noticing—at least when they first are
walking through the darkness—that perhaps in the re-mastering process, the
version that’s up on Hulu has maybe been considerably lightened, because you can
kind of see some floor detail. [both laugh]
Kristin: Oh, no.
Jenny: Of the black room they’re walking through. [laughs]
Kristin: Oh, no.
Jenny: ‘Cause it’s clearly supposed to be like they’re walking through, like, a black
void. Right?
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah. So they find the eye and somebody says, “Oh, hi.” [laughs]
And then we cut to the kitchen.
Jenny: Willow answers this phone and it’s someone from the coven, and Willow
proceeds to voice a number of questions and statements, with absolutely no room
for any kind of response.


Kristin: And you know it’s not Alyson Hannigan. They probably had to squish this
scene into—’cause Alyson Hannigan is a star. It’s—
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: I blame the director. Who directed this?
Jenny: Alyson Hannigan has had many real-life phone conversations. [both laugh]
Famously.
Kristin: Yeah, but she’s, like, asking Althenea how the coven is. And then she’s
like, “What? Okay, when?” And then we cut to the living room. Where we get our
first Xandrew of the episode.
Jenny: “That’s my joystick hand,” says Andrew. Xander’s like, nice.
Kristin: [laughs] They’ve realized that it’s not practical to leave Andrew tied to the
chair at all hours. Perhaps the biggest reason being that he stinks, so he needs to
take a shower.
Jenny: Andrew is unleashed!
Kristin: Andrew’s untied, and Buffy is like, “You ever seen Misery?” And
Andrew—and I agree with this—says, “The book is scarier than the movie. Because
in the movie—” and then he’s like, “I’ll be good. I understand your point.” [Jenny
laughs] He—what Andrew is saying is that the book is scarier because in the movie,
Kathy Bates cuts off the author’s leg instead of, like, bludgeoning his leg, which she
does in the movie. But I actually think—’cause I remember the—I was, like, twelve
when I read this book and then I watched the movie and I was very disappointed
by the movie, which is not anyone’s fault. I was, like, twelve and I didn’t
understand books to movies, you know? [Jenny laughs] But there’s a scene in the
book where the Kathy Bates character picks up—sorry, I’m so sorry. But picks up,
like, a mouse or a rat or something, and she just holds it in front of the author’s
face. And she squishes it to death in front of him.
Jenny: No!
Kristin: And my twelve-year-old fucking self—I threw the book. It was the first
time in my whole life that I threw a book. I threw it across my bedroom. And I
remember it so vividly, because I had never been impacted by the written word so
intensely. [laughs] So I agree with Andrew.


Jenny: Wow. Incredible to finally hear the origin story of your habit of throwing
books across the room.
Kristin: [laughs] That’s where it began.
Jenny: Often after ripping them out of my hands. [laughs]
Kristin: That is where it began.
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: [laughs] You’ve never seen anything funnier than when I get on a kick of
taking a book out of Jenny’s hand and throwing it across the room. It’s a good joke,
Jenny.
Jenny: [doubtfully] Mmm…
Kristin: It’s a good joke. For everyone but you, it’s a fucking funny fucking joke.
Jenny: Mmm. [laughs]
Kristin: Alright. So, Willow. Willow’s like, there’s a Potential. She’s learned, she
comes in and she’s like, this is what I’ve just learned from Althenea. There’s
another Potential that we missed. Her Watcher was killed and she’s still at the
Sunspot Motel. [laughs] Why? Why is it called the Sunspot Motel? It sounds like a
precancerous condition. [both laugh] And second of all, why wouldn’t they have just
put this at the fucking Sunnydale Motor Inn?
Jenny: Maybe the Sunspot is a little nicer.
Kristin: Wooow.
Jenny: What?!
Kristin: No, I mean, you’re right. If it’s on Watchers’ money—
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: Probably be able to stay at a slightly nicer place. Okay, so. Xander and
Buffy go to get this Potential. And Dawn makes a comment to Willow, she’s like,


“I’m not—you know, like, I understand that they’re all here and whatever. But I’m
not sure that having a bunch of scared Slayer-wannabes translates as help.”
Jenny: Mmhmm!
Kristin: And she—I mean, at least in the writing of the story, she’s right, at this
point. Like, they should be a little bit more skilled than we’re seeing them to be. But
they are very scared and they are—they’re not really helping. They’re kind of just
there to be protected.
Jenny: Yeah, and Eve is up to no good! All “why are we bothering? None of us— [in
southern accent] none of us is prepared.” [Kristin laughs] And so on.
Kristin: Yeah. This is where my first note is, “Eve, shut the fuck up.” [both laugh]
‘Cause I still, in my notes, have not realized. [both laugh]
Jenny: Kristin! Oh my god.
Kristin: And we learn that Rona—this is where we learn what I said earlier, that
Rona never had a Watcher. She only just learned that she was a Slayer. And then,
basically they’re talking about, like, this one—oh, it’s like a one in, one out
mathematical equation, to—to your point, Jenny—perhaps catch the new viewers up
to speed.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Vi is like, “I heard there’s more than one Slayer.” And we’re all like, yes, Vi!
Can you ask anyone why that Slayer’s not here?
Jenny: Yes, go get her!
Kristin: Please, someone go get her. The one exchange in this scene that resonated
with me—I mean, it all resonated with me. But the thing that stuck with me the
most was when Chloe says—to the group, I guess, generally—like, well, it can’t
be—they’re talking about, like, basically if Buffy dies, one of us is gonna get called.
And then if that person dies, another one of us is gonna get called. Like—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: The numbers are getting smaller and, like—
Jenny: Eek!


Kristin: This is a lot to hold. And Chloe’s like, “Well, it couldn’t be me because I’m
too young.” I think Chloe is meant to be the youngest of the bunch.
Jenny: Yeah, for sure, for sure.
Kristin: And Kennedy says, “It doesn’t work like that. The younger, the better.”
Which is, like, a very jarring…thing. It’s a truth, that is the truth. But it’s just, like,
very jarring to hear her say that and to realize that, like—
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Oh, like, it’s actually not about protecting young people at all. It’s like, if
you’re younger, then you might have more fight in you, great. Go to battle.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Who built this system? Um…
Kristin: Oh, we have a jingle for that.
[THE PATRIARCHY jingle plays]
The patriarchy! [thunder clap, evil laughter]
Jenny: This is also of course where Kennedy mentions, oh, how old she’s getting!
She’s so old that she’s age-appropriate dating material for the core cast of the
show, probably, we think!
Kristin: [laughs] Oh, god. That reminds me of how many times Connor Angel says
that he’s 18 over in that universe.
Jenny: [laughs] Which doesn’t make it okay!
Kristin: No! It’ll never be okay! [both laugh] Alright. The Sunspot Motel. Hey,
Jenny, what room do they knock on? Room 25. And you know what mathematical
equation comes out to 25?
Jenny: Five times five. Wow.
Kristin: [laughs] Good job. I know.


Jenny: Buffy knocks on the door, but Xander is peering through the blinds, and he’s
like, “Kick. The. Door. Down.” There’s a girl lying on the ground. Now, it’s very
interesting, Kristin. When they enter the room, she’s lying with her hand next to her
head.
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: But then in the very next shot, her arm is extended down to her waist.
Kristin: Mmmmm.
Jenny: Just a heads up. This body might not be as dead as it looks! [Kristin laughs]
But it’s just a blooper. It’s dead. As it looks.
Kristin: It’s dead. Eve is dead. Eve has been dead. Also, like—
Jenny: [simultaneously] It’s—[gasps dramatically] it’s Eve?!
Kristin: It’s Eve. Oh, no. This is great. Like, watching this, if you’re me at any point
in time, or watching this—
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: For the first time if you’re any other person. [Jenny laughs] That’s a good
reveal. And also, a great prank from the First. Good job, buddy. Like, that’s smart.
That’s real smart. You gotta give this guy credit where it’s due.
Jenny: Yeah, that’s a good, spicy trick.
Kristin: So back in the basement, Eve is busy on her business. [southern accent] “I
don’t think the Slayer can protect us from the First.” We go upstairs for this
exchange between Andrew and Dawn that I don’t understand why it’s there. Which
is my supporting evidence to—
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: Perhaps some of the overage from Bring on the Night could have been put
into Showti—into [dramatically] “Showtime!” [Jenny laughs] And we would have,
you know, a little bit of a more balance here. But you know, Andrew—it’s fun. Like,
you like to see these two fucking around. Andrew’s like, “Why is the Slayer always a


girl?” Dawn says, “Girls are cooler.” And then we get a great line from Dawn. “Buffy
said I’m allowed to kill you if you talk too much.” [both laugh]
Jenny: Yes, tread carefully, Andrew. But he cannot stop talking. He just wants to
interact.
Kristin: Yeah, also, this was how I learned that the James Bond franchise is owned
by a family called the Broccolis?! [laughs]
Jenny: Wait, that’s what’s up?
Kristin: Yes, because he’s like, blah-blah-blah, Timothy Dalton, blah-blah-blah, the
Broccolis. And Dawn is like, “Is there a language that you’re speaking?” And I
wasn’t sure, ‘cause I’m not a James Bond person yet. I have not been introduced to
Bond, James Bond. That I was kinda thinking, oh, it’s probably a James Bond guy
and it was. And so then I googled “Timothy Dalton Broccoli” and I found that the
Broccoli family owns the James Bond movies. And there’s more to it, because I
think Timothy Dalton might have dated one of the lady Broccolis. [laughs]
Jenny: Wuh-oh!
Kristin: Anyway. I just, like—I can’t believe that I’ve lived this long and no one told
me that there was A. a family called the Broccolis. And B. that they’re so important
that they own the James Bond franchise.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Did you say that they’re so important that they own the James Bond
franchise? [both laughing] Is that how it…works?
Kristin: Yeah. They were like, the Broccolis seem like a big deal, let’s give ‘em
James Bond.
Jenny: Yeah. [laughs]
Kristin: Alright, so this scene…[laughs] this scene ends—first of all, Andrew’s
impressed with the fact that Buffy—that Dawn has been given a license to kill.
That’s how Timothy Dalton gets brought up in the first place.
Jenny: [laughing] Yeah.


Kristin: So, this scene ends with Dawn being like, “you know what, if you feel so
alone, you shouldn’t have killed your friend,” which is kinda sad.
Jenny: Ooooh.
Kristin: ‘Cause like, you know, as much as Andrew’s a little shit, he is dealing also
with a lot. And he shouts after Dawn as she leaves, “You wanna play Kevin Bacon?”
[laughs] Andrew, going for, like, fifty laughs in a row for me—if you’re me, watching
this episode. Because then Buffy enters and she’s, like, frantic.
Jenny: Dude. She’s all puffed up. She busts in. The first place she looks is at the
couch, where Andrew has his shoes on the upholstery. [Kristin laughs] And very
rapidly takes them off and is, like, brushing the cushion and is like, “Nothing to see
here!” And Buffy’s like, ughh!
Kristin: Yeah, her “ughh” is what got me. I’m like—you know? [Jenny laughs] Here
she is, she knows the First is in her home. She’s trying to save, like, 400 girls from
dying. And she still has time for one, like, “oh, for fuck’s sake.” [laughs] Anyway.
Down to the basement she goes. “Get the fuck away from them” is what she would
have said if this was on HBO, but it’s not, so she just says, “Get away from them.”
Eve—
Jenny: Eyebrow bonanza!
Kristin: Oh my god. This is jazz hands—just, like, jazz hand upon jazz hand, okay.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: “You’re gonna have a visitor tonight. You should show him your manners
before he rips you to pieces.” And then she, like, extends her arms and goes, “Bye!”
[laughs] And zaps away!
Jenny: And then, yeah, it’s—some of you might not have ever had a non-flat
screen TV in your home. [Kristin laughs] But this is what it used to look like—
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: When you would turn the TV off. It would blip down to a tiny white light
that would—
Kristin: Ooh! [gasps]


Jenny: Go away. And I’m like—me, who was laughing at him so recently—I’m like,
where’s big horn-demon? You’re gonna make your grand exit, but you’re not gonna
bust out your huge green horn-demon thing that you love to do with CGI?
Kristin: Maybe somebody else was in the writers’ room and said, “Maybe we’ve
done that enough.”
Jenny: Yeah. [laughs]
Kristin: Now all I want is for one of you smart, smart people to email us at
bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com and explain why that happens when you turn
off the TV. And why it doesn’t happen anymore.
Jenny: Oh, and does it have to do with the same thing that makes it so that a duck
hunt gun from the original NES doesn’t work—
Kristin: [simultaneously] Yes. Yes!
Jenny: On modern televisions.
Kristin: Yes. Tell us.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Tell us. Tell us. [laughing] Give us your knowledge.
Kristin: Oh my god, are you ready for a fucking sound clip of what it sounds like
when a ball of eyes talks? ‘Cause that’s what you’re gonna get. Here you go.
[Clip from episode plays]
Beljoxa’s Eye: It cannot be fought, it cannot be killed. The First Evil has
been and always will be. Since before the universe was born, long after there
is nothing else, it will go on.
Giles: I refuse to believe that. There must be some way to destroy it.
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: Okay. So this guy—sorry, at first it was a girl, now it’s a guy. Jenny said it’s
not—it doesn’t have a gender.
Jenny: This creature.


Kristin: This creature speaks—
Jenny: [simultaneously] This being.
Kristin: By…ah, thinking? Seeing? I don’t know. But his voice booms, amidst the—
Jenny: Mm, yeah. Is this the first—is this actually the first instance of telepathy in
the episode?
Kristin: Yes. This precedes the other telepathy. [laughs]
Jenny: Perfect.
Kristin: So Giles—also, I just feel like I wanna give more credit again here to
Emma Caulfield and Tony Head. Because they’re just standing in an empty box and
they’re being told that they need to respond as though something is—like,
something big is happening. And I don’t know, it’s been a long time since I did any
acting myself. But I just feel like Tony Head—especially Tony Head’s commitment to
this is, like, probably the only thing that’s keeping this scene not from just, like,
falling apart. You know?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: ‘Cause he’s really committed. He’s talking back to the eye and he’s like, “I
refuse to believe that there’s no way to destroy this.” And then the eye is like,
[laughing] “The eye does not see the future. Only the truth of the now and before.”
Jenny: And Anya says, “We all have that. It’s called memory.” [both laugh] Oh,
yeah.
Kristin: Like, touche. Touche, Anya.
Jenny: Yeah, what’s this eye all hopped up about?
Kristin: But we learn—more—again, like, we’re really in this very sticky center of
the season. Because we’re just—exposition on exposition. We learn now, from the
eye, that there’s a disruption in the mystical something-something around the
Slayers. The First didn’t do this. The First didn’t cause the disruption, but is
basically capitalizing on the fact that there is a disruption. They ask, “What caused
the disruption?”


Jenny: “The Slayer.”
Kristin: Dun-dun-dun!
Jenny: Ree-ree-ree-ree!
Kristin: Back in the dining room, the Potentials are fuh-reaking out! [laughs]
Jenny: They are stressed! They’re arguing about the First, they’re arguing about
the Turok-Han. They are bringing up some solid points and asking some questions
about their potentially imminent deaths.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And while they all freak out together, the adults—unbeknownst to the
viewer until a little later in the episode—go and have a little telepathic conference in
the kitchen.
Kristin: Yeah. I actually—again, having no idea—
Jenny: This is just something that happens. [laughs]
Kristin: Yeah, like, we haven’t really seen this happen in a long time, and never
this controlled. But okay.
Jenny: Yeah, casual.
Kristin: Yeah. [laughs] Super casual.
Jenny: It’s interesting.
Kristin: But when you don’t know that this is what’s happening, what you think, if
you’re me, is happening is that they’re really sad. Like, that’s—when I watched this
and I didn’t know the telepathy was happening, I was just like, they have
been—Buffy especially. But they’ve been put in this position where basically, all
these young girls are at their house, to die. And like, yes—and they know, because
it’s Season 7, guys. They know that, like, even if they win the battle, that some of
these girls—they’ve already lost Annabelle and they know they’re gonna die. Why
are you laughing at me? [both laugh]
Jenny: Sorry, I’m just thinking about the Turok-Han walking. [Kristin laughs
harder] I’m so sorry. It’s gonna happen so soon! [laughs]


Kristin: Never apologize. I’ve never used more all caps in any of my notes. But let
me finish my thought, which is that when you don’t know the telepathy is
happening, it still makes sense. Because it’s pretty sad and it’s a lot of pressure.
And the girls aren’t wrong for being terrified and having a lot of questions. And
Buffy and Willow and Xander aren’t wrong for needing to leave the room. Like, if
that were the reality—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: It would also make sense.
Jenny: Mmhmm. Mmhmm.
Kristin: Okay. [laughing] So. So Eve—the First has stayed in Eve, which is fun.
Jenny: Yeah, the First loves this form. And the First is like, “Showtime!” [both
laugh] The First says, “Go kill everybody” to the Turok-Han. And the Turok-Han is
only too pleased to do this bidding.
Kristin: He can’t even believe his luck, the Turok-Han. Like, he just—he has landed
the job of a lifetime. He was stuck under the Seal of Danzel-thorpe for one bajillion
years, and now look at him go. [both laugh] So. Off the Turok-Han goes, can’t wait
to see him again. Can’t wait to see him again. Spike is there in the chanty cave,
and now the First knows that it’s time to be Buffy again. Just to fuck with Spike. Oh
my god! Have you ever seen a house that has a lot of pink flamingos on the lawn,
because that’s what this looks like. Except it’s the Bringers. [both laugh] There’s a
million Bringers on the front lawn!
Jenny: [simultaneously] They are everywhere! They are scary Halloween
decorations at your neighbor’s house. They are gigantic lawn gnomes.
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah.
Jenny: Sprung to life size.
Kristin: We haven’t really talked a ton about the Bringers, and I wanna say that I
think that they are very, very brilliantly designed. Like, the…horror of the Bringer
appearance, I think is really effective. And I also have a question about, are they
people?


Jenny: What a great question. Let’s see. Shall we? So. What’s cool about the
Bringers is that their full title is actually Harbingers of Death.
Kristin: Nice.
Jenny: And they self-reference as “The We.”
Kristin: Ooh! I knew I liked these guys.
Jenny: These beings are seemingly former humans, that have been corrupted by
the First and transformed through rituals that included self-mutilations.
Kristin: Mm. Interesting. So they have to cut their own eyes out? Oh my god! Do
you think that the fucking botox eye is made of all the Bringers’ eyes?! Holy shit!
Jenny: No. No.
Kristin: But what if it is? I’m just saying, there’s a lot of missing eyes and then
there’s a lot of eyes. So, like…[laughs]
Jenny: Yeah but those eyes are a variety of sizes, Kristin.
Kristin: So are the Bringers. Kind of.
Jenny: Uhh, no.
Kristin: But they were, before they became—okay. Let’s move along.
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: So the Bringers are on the front lawn. And Buffy explains that they’re not
trying to get in. They are here to—this is terrifying. They’re here to make sure we
don’t get out. That’s worse. I think that’s worse.
Jenny: Yeah. It’s pretty bad.
Kristin: We’re at the “hand out the weapons” part of the episode. Rona gets a
sword. There’s a fun joke about “what’s the point? It’s the part at the bot—” who
cares. [both laugh] Kennedy gets your favorite weapon.
Jenny: Ohh. So far, my least favorite thing about Kennedy is that she’s a fucking
crossbow person.


Kristin: You know what? I like this for Kennedy. And mostly I like it because she’s
like, “yeah, I’ve been using one of these since I’m eight.” And I’m like, hell yeah!
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah, that’s pretty cool.
Kristin: That’s pretty cool.
Jenny: [laughing] Andrew says to Buffy, when he’s asking for a weapon. He’s like,
“I have a right to defend myself! If you say so?” [both laugh] A lot of
really—Andrew is really making the most of his time in this ep. Tom Lenk.
Kristin: Yeah. Tom Lenk.
Jenny: Just going for it. The faces, what he says, what he doesn’t say.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: What he looks like when he’s not saying it.
Kristin: He’s really a brilliant comedic performer. Because his deliveries are great,
but his timing is just—chef’s kiss.
Jenny: So good.
Kristin: Yeah. Andrew gets holy water. Did you see that? [laughs] He gets a bottle
of holy water.
Jenny: Yeah, he gets holy water.
Kristin: So in the hallway, while all this is happening, Willow is saying to herself,
“Facing my fear, facing my fear, facing my fear.” She’s just using a little bit of magic,
trying to, like, psych herself up so she can do a little more magic and not be afraid.
And this is the scene that I really don’t like between the two of them. It takes a
hard turn when we cut outside in a minute. But before we cut outside, Kennedy is
like, “I heard you were, like, big—you know, big and scary, and I’d almost like to
see—”
Jenny: No, no, no. She says—I’m so sorry, but you have to endure this actual line.
Kristin: Okay.


Jenny: “Heard this voodoo turned you into the big scary.”
Kristin: Ugh.
Jenny: I hate every syllable of this sentence.
Kristin: It just, like—it doesn’t make sense to me why they would have written
these lines for Kennedy, knowing that Kennedy is trying to fill the shoes of Tara.
Like, I mean, not literally. But like, that Kennedy is clearly hitting on Willow and the
last time that Willow was with somebody, it was with fucking Tara. Like, how dare
they write Kennedy lines that are this shitty to magic? They didn’t need to do that.
They didn’t need to do that to her. It feels…I don’t like it.
Jenny: It’s just a bad line.
Kristin: It’s a bad line. There are—yeah. There’s—
Jenny: People getting high on their own banter supply.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: In the writers’ room. Right now.
Kristin: So. Willow puts Kennedy kind of in her magical place, by saying, like, “No,
you wouldn’t. Like, let’s just be really clear. Like, I might joke about things or be
light about things or avoid things, but I’m not going to do any of that with this.
Like, you need to fucking know this is not an area that you are to joke with me
about.” [laughs] And then Kennedy, to her credit, kinda does a decent job pivoting.
Because then Willow opens up a little more. She talks about how she’s really afraid,
because the last time she did something magical, the First got inside of her so
much so that she could taste it.
Jenny: Blegh!
Kristin: And then, like, this is a great—this is a good line for Kennedy. You know?
“How did evil taste?” It just brings a little levity where Willow wanted it. “Kinda
chalky.” That’s nice. Why did you give us the first bit, writers? Why did you do that?
We don’t like it.
Jenny: No thanks.
Kristin: Oh my god, are you ready? Here. He. Comes!


[theme from New York, New York starts playing]
Jenny: Buckle. Up! I simply cannot.
[song continues playing in the background]
Kristin: Please tweet at us with your videos that have random songs [Jenny
laughs] put over the Turok-Han entering the scene in this clip. Please. Or just send
us ideas and we’ll do it, because this is an entrance.
[song fades out]
Jenny: There are so many instances of the Turok-Han walking, like—doing a
power-walk—doing, like, a [tune of Stayin’ Alive by Bee Gees]. Except with his arms
pinned firmly to his sides. [Kristin laughs] Giving him kind of an almost crab-like
appearance. It’s really…unlike anything we ever have seen in the show. [laughs]
Kristin: This is—I mean, truly, the last time I remember feeling this full of laughter
for a costuming was, like [Jenny laughs] werewolf—the original werewolf costume.
You know what I mean? [both laugh] Like, you gotta go back about—
Jenny: Or maybe the snake. The very big snake. [laughs]
Kristin: [simultaneously] Oh, yeah, the snake. Of course, the snake. [laughs] Oh
my god. Please, give me—just let me see them all together, at a dance, you know?
Let me see the werewolf, the snake and Turok-Han, dancing together. It’s all I want
in my life.
Jenny: Wow. Yes.
Kristin: The reason as it’s, like, as funny as it is is also because the Bringers are,
like, so reverent. So they’re, like, clearing the path for him. [both laugh] It’s just,
like, so dramatic. Oh, god. Okay, so. Onto the rest of the episode. Willow creates a
barrier, which we learn later is really just a decoy. [Jenny gasps] She is clearly able
to create a bigger barrier than she’s created, but this works well. It holds off the
Turok-Han for a minute. She is seeming to feel pain from this. Kennedy is the first
one to be like, “She’s not okay. Like, this is not okay.” And Buffy’s like, alright, we
need to run. So they run.
Jenny: Mmhmm.


Kristin: To your crossbow doubt, mm, one of the only Bringers killed is killed by a
crossbow from Kennedy.
Jenny: And I celebrate that.
Kristin: And then Xander almost dies.
Jenny: Hey!
Kristin: [simultaneously] Buffy saves—yeah, Buffy saves Xander. And then the
Turok-Han breaks through the barrier. And we cut to Giles and Anya, sort of like
when you walk—when you’re at the airport and you’re walking on one of those
moving things—
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: And then you get to the place where it stops and you’re like, whoa!
[laughs]
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: It’s like, apparently that’s what it feels like when you come out of the
introverted vortex. What is it called? [laughs]
Jenny: Inverted vortex. [laughs]
Kristin: Okay. It’s not a vortex that doesn’t wanna talk to you all the time. It’s just
inverted. [both laugh]
Jenny: So they’re just going over their notes from their meeting with the big ball of
eyes. And letting us know that the vulnerability in the Slayer line is not because
Buffy died, but because she lives again. And Anya’s like, oh. So it’s…my, Xander’s,
Tara’s and Willow’s faults.
Kristin: Yeah. And—
Jenny: Whoops.
Kristin: Whoops, and she says, “so it would’ve been better if Buffy stayed dead.”
Jenny: Eee!


Kristin: Anyway, on the street—not to be confused with the alley, where our last
scene was, according to my notes. [laughs] Everyone is running. Willow and Xander
are gonna take everyone except for Buffy to a safe location, so that she can try to
fight the Turok-Han again. This is where the strength of Buffy and the strength of
the Turok-Han start to get wiggly for me. Because—
Jenny: Yeah, and—well, yeah, why did she think, “now’s the time”? Like, why did
she think, okay, I can do it now?
Kristin: Right. And I guess her only job is to, like, hold him off for long enough for
them to get to the place? I don’t really…I understand part of the plan, but not all of
the plan. But it does feel like he was an undefeat—he was a Glory-level foe just,
like, last episode. And so it’s a little bizarre to see her kick his ass and eventually
kill him, without that much—I mean, you know, it’s a good fight. But it’s not, like,
what we were led to believe this guy could do.
Jenny: Yeah, it’s like, it seems like it only happens because Buffy needs it to
happen.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: You know?
Kristin: And maybe there’s something there. Like, maybe there’s something more
there. But I just found it to be a little inconsistent. But that’s alright. It’s Season 7,
guys. You know? We got some good bits and we got some inconsistent bits, and
we’re here for all of ‘em.
Jenny: [laughs] Um…
Kristin: Yes?
Jenny: Couple updates.
Kristin: Couple updates. [laughs]
Jenny: Buffy—when Buffy splits up from the group, she takes Andrew’s holy water.
And then while she’s fighting the Turok-Han, she smashes the bottle in his face, and
it burns his face. So we know that Turok-Han are vulnerable to holy water.
Kristin: Mmhmm.


Jenny: Not vulnerable to a two-foot flying kick. Noted.
Kristin: Nope.
Jenny: After she burns his face with holy water, he runs after her again with his
little arms pinned to his side. [both laugh] It’s like—ooh! It’s like a toy—did you
ever have a toy where you, like, wind it up and then its little feet, like—
Kristin: Uh-huh.
Jenny: Walk as the thing unwinds?
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: It’s kind of like that. Fast feet, no movement otherwise.
Kristin: And then they’re like, fighting a little bit. But then basically, the Turok-Han
is like, bye! Like, just kinda bounces and Buffy’s like, uhh…
Jenny: Hmm.
Kristin: Luckily, they all had a plan the whole time.
Jenny: Of course!
Kristin: Andrew says to Xander, “Climbing is not my thing.” And Xander says to his
boyfriend Andrew, “I’m gonna come up there and drop your ass.”
Jenny: [laughs] Andrew’s also still harping on why Buffy is the leader of the group.
[both laugh] Willow instructs everyone to spread out and take positions. What does
this mean?
Kristin: What positions?
Jenny: What positions? What?
Kristin: There is no answer to that question. No one knows. No one knows. It
seems—like, at first, I was like, I guess they’re making another barrier and maybe
they all need to stand on the perimeter. But it is not explained. There is no answer.
Jenny: They notice that their friend, Turok-Han, has joined the party. [both laugh]
And then—


Kristin: My note in all caps is, “I cannot with this fucking thing.” [both laugh]
Jenny: And then, all of the big flood lights turn on, because I guess the little
balcony where Buffy is hiding, about to make her appearance, is also where the
light switches are. [laughs] She—
Kristin: For a second, I was like, wait. Did they fake him out ‘cause he thinks it’s
sunlight? Like, does that really happen? I was so confused.
Jenny: No, she’s just like, “Showtime!” [both laugh]
Kristin: The Turok-Han makes me laugh the same way—you know—is it Kristen
Wiig who does the SNL character with the doll hands in her sleeves? [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Yeah, it gets me the same way, okay. Alright, so yeah. Buffy’s like,
“Showtime!” And then—
Jenny: She’s like, “Showtime!” and then she does a totally superfluous flip.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: In the air.
Kristin: For show. ‘Cause it’s…
Jenny: And she’s like, “I’m the thing monsters have nightmares about.” And then
the Turok-Han is like, I’ll see you and raise you. Here’s yet another completely
useless cartwheel. [both laugh]
Kristin: Jenny, don’t forget that Willow gives us the title. She turns to the
Potentials and says, “It’s showtime.”
Jenny: [gasps] I’m gonna let you get away with that delivery, because that’s—you
know—Willow doesn’t say it like we do.
Kristin: [simultaneously] It felt different. I did it…it felt different ‘cause it—yeah.
Jenny: You were saying it in quotes.


Kristin: Yes, exactly. So, yeah. And you said it already, but we get a quote that is
very famous from the series. She’s—Buffy’s basically saying to Turok-Han, like, the
Potentials have been waiting, they’ve been having nightmares. But I’m the thing
that monsters have nightmares about. And then my actual favorite part of this line
is, “And you and I are gonna show ‘em why.” [Jenny laughs] Hot. Welcome to the
thunderdome!
Jenny: Andrew, who has just been waiting for the opportunity to be like,
[whispers] “Two men enter, only one will leave.” [both laugh] Dawn, Detective
Dawn, figures it out. And she’s like, “Willow. You guys planned this. Willow!”
Kristin: Yeah, she’s really impressed, as she should be.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: Then we get to see—
Jenny: [simultaneously] Oh my god!
Kristin: Oh, yes. Yes, what happened?
Jenny: No, sorry, go ahead, go ahead.
Kristin: I was just gonna say, we get to see the scene again with the telepathy
over the top of it. So we know now what was happening when we saw—
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: The scene the first time.
Jenny: Yep. Yep, yep, yep. Then, you know what we get to see?
Kristin: A pole vault?!
Jenny: The pole vault, followed by Turok-Han doing so many Batman jumps. So
many jumps with his knees up to his chest and his arms up high.
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah, yeah.
Jenny: Hee-ya! [both laugh] Turok-Han loves doing that jump. Not for any
particular reason. Just because—just as, like, an expression of the joy of life.


Kristin: It’s nice that he had such a good time before he died, you know?
Jenny: [laughing] Yeah, he died doing what he loved.
Kristin: He did. [laughs]
Jenny: Batman-ing around and running around with his arms pinned to his sides.
[both laugh]
Kristin: Something that I just wanna say—it doesn’t really matter if—the order at
this point. But like, the biggest thing that we get from the telepathic conversation
that we overhear is the idea that the Potentials are starting—not starting. Just
continuing to doubt Buffy and the ability that she has—
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And that the Scoobies have to win. And so, the entire point here is not to
kill the Turok-Han. It’s to get the confidence of the Potentials and get them to
believe, you know? Like—
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: You can’t have fight in you if you don’t believe. And so—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: I have, like, a little bit—’cause it is a real move, to be like, okay, so here’s
the Turok-Han. And I could probably kill him by myself, but I also have all these
other fighters here. And we could probably definitely—if I could kill him by myself,
then probably all of us could kill him a lot easier. So I had a little pause at first
about, like, that choice, just from a—you know, power perspective, organizing
perspective. Like, oh, Buffy’s—Buffy just has to show them that she can do it all by
herself? But I came around to it, because I do think that this was necessary. Some
version of this was necessary. They needed the, like, locker room speech. And in
Buffy the Vampire Slayer, this is that, you know? This is how you get the team
rallied and ready to go and to believe that they actually can beat evil. They have to
see it. So. I support it.
Jenny: Yeah. She’s very inspirational. And really, Kristin, what’s more inspirational
than finding some wire laying around at a construction site and using it to garrote
the head off of a super-vampire?


Kristin: I’m sorry, what?
Jenny: Am I saying the word “garrote” correctly?
Kristin: What is that word?
Jenny: G-A-R-O-T-T-E [sic].
Kristin: I don’t know it, so I can’t help you. What does it mean?
Jenny: A wire, cord, or apparatus used to strangle someone.
Kristin: [gasps] Oh my god, it has a part—does it only become that when you do
that? Is it just a cord before that, but then if you use it—
Jenny: Exactly. Here’s a “in-use” that will show you exactly what’s going on, in
terms of when something becomes a garrote. [both laugh] “He had been garotted
with piano wire.”
Kristin: Ohh, okay. A verb.
Jenny: Also, if it’s like, “garroted” [pronounced GARE-ated] I will be so
embarrassed. Also, there’s only one—wait, is there one T or two—oh! There’s some
disagreement. I’m so sorry if it’s GARE-ated and GARE-at and I’m saying garrote
[pronounced guh-ROTE].
Kristin: Guh-ROTE sounds better because it’s on a throat. [laughs]
Jenny: Garote on a throat! [both laugh] Yes. Uh…
Kristin: Wow, well, I learned a new word today, so that’s exciting.
Jenny: Yeah, did you learn how to say it though?
Kristin: Nope.
Jenny: Only time—only our inbox will tell.
Kristin: Yes. So. Buffy—yes—beheads this guy. He becomes a big pile of ash, you
know. Like, an ancient pile of ash.
Jenny: Yeah.


Kristin: An unnameable, can’t google that ash kind of ash, is what we see. And
Buffy’s like, “yeah. It’s gonna be hard, right? It’s gonna be painful. But what I
needed you to see was that in the end, it’s gonna be us.” [Jenny gasps] And then
she says, “Here endeth the lesson.”
Jenny: Well, well, well.
Kristin: This is the third time we’ve heard “here endeth the lesson” in Buffy the
Vampire Slayer.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: The first time, I don’t put that much clout into, right? It’s the first time we
hear the Master say it. So maybe Spike picked it up from the Master, they hung out
a bunch.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: Fine. But when Spike says it—this is—like, and I don’t know. I haven’t
unpacked it. But it’s just, like, when Spike says it, this is Fool for Love. Season 5,
Episode 7. And he’s talking to Buffy in the alleyway, basically about how she has a
death wish. [laughs] Like, that’s the core of it, right? “The only reason that you’ve
lasted as long as you have,” he says, “is you’ve got ties to the world. Your mum,
your brat kid sister, the Scoobies. They all tie you here, but you’re just putting off
the inevitable. Sooner or later, you’re gonna want it, and the second, the second
that happens,” and then everyone who knows the show very well can see Spike
clapping his hands.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: “You know I’ll be there.” Right? It’s about, like, Buffy’s death wish as the
moment that she will fail. And so I don’t know, you know. And maybe I’m just one
of those people laying on a lot of stuff to what was just a simple, like, “oh, that’d be
fun if she said that thing the way that he said.” But—
Jenny: Mm, mmhmm.
Kristin: I just think it’s interesting because right now, and especially after last
week, we’re kind of looking at—she doesn’t have a death wish at this point. But she
is willing to die. And she is, like, really at a place where she’s like, if I’m going out,
I’m going out kicking. I’m going out screaming. And I just wonder if there’s any


connection there. Because it’s such a big speech from Spike in Season 5. And it
feels like a really big moment in Season 7. So I would personally love to hear your
thoughts on, like, how these two things connect. Or if you don’t think they connect
at all and it’s just a turn of phrase.
Jenny: My thoughts?
Kristin: Yours as well as the listeners, yeah. Do you have thoughts?
Jenny: I think it’s incidental. Eeee!
Kristin: Incidental, but like, they know it’s a repeat. But it’s just like, meant as an
incidental repeat. They couldn’t have accidentally put that line in again.
Jenny: I don’t know. Maybe I’m…maybe I’m not giving credit where credit is due,
but I just don’t feel like there’s enough—
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Connective tissue for it to really be a thing.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Connective tissue. Yeah. It could just be that Spike
picked it up from the Master and Buffy picked it up from Spike and now it’s just
something that people in Sunnydale say.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: But…I know some of you wanna give me a reason. So…
Jenny: Yeah! Do write in.
Kristin: Do write in. There’s the First as Eve.
Jenny: [gasps] Still wearing Eve’s face. Does not care for this turn of events, with
her mad little face!
Kristin: Oh my god. She was like, you had one fucking job, man. One.
Jenny: Mmhmm!
Kristin: And now you’re ash, now you’re gone. And now no one, notably, is
guarding the chanty cave, where Spike is.


Jenny: Oh…no, Kristin, it’s fake Buffybot all over again.
Kristin: It is. It’s like the same—I thought of you so much, because it is, like, the
exact—exact scene as Buffybot-is-not-Buffybot, it’s Buffy.
Jenny: Yeah. They’re like, oh, you know what we should do? Hurt Jenny’s feelings.
[laughs]
Kristin: Yeah, so Buffy, real Buffy—and we kind of know right away. ‘Cause she’s
got, like, a butterfly on her cut face. Like, a butterfly bandage, you know—
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And she walks over, and he’s like, “A knife now, is it? You’re just a
figment.” And then my notes stop and I just write “oh noooo!”
Jenny: I know! Oh no!
Kristin: She cuts—
Jenny: He touches her shoulder. And he’s like—
Kristin: Ugh.
Jenny: Oh. And then they look at each other, in this very specific way. [sighs]
Kristin: They’re like—they’re both almost weeping, and not. And it is a lot to hold.
And you know that Spike has lasted in this place for so long, just repeating to
himself over and over again, “I know she’ll come, I know she’ll come.” [Jenny
groans] We’ve heard him do it, we’ve seen him do it.
Jenny: Buddy!
Kristin: Oh my god almighty! And they give us, like, the whole walk as they walk
out, with her holding him up—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And he’s limping. It’s just.
Jenny: Nice choice.


Kristin: A fucking. Lot. And it is, like, a bookend to that scene with the
Buffybot—the non-Buffybot. Because it’s like, how far we’ve come. You know, ‘cause
that was powerful. But this is like a whole—this is in a whole other league.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah…
Kristin: She saved him, guys!
Jenny: I know!
Kristin: He only survived because he knew she believed in him.
Jenny: Ahhhhhh! How dare they.
Kristin: How dare they indeed. It’s just—you know. I was thinking at the end of the
episode, like, this is what this show does well. Right? Like, this is its fucking lane.
It’s like, emotional first. Monsters, second. And I think—
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: When it’s monsters first, which is like, what we’re seeing with the
Turok-Han—
Jenny: Yes?
Kristin: What we saw with the great big snake, it gets a little silly in a way that
doesn’t quite jive with the rest of the storytelling. Because the moments that count
in the show are just—you know, it’s like—it’s wild to me that, between Bring on the
Night and Showtime, we got the “it’ll choke on me” monologue and also the line,
“I’m the thing that monsters have nightmares about.” Two of the biggest quotes in
the series. But they’re encased in these episodes that also have a lot of things
where you’re like, what is happening right now?
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: You know?
Jenny: Yeah. And that’s why you have to watch Season 7, even though [laughing]
dot-dot-dot.


Kristin: [laughs] I don’t envy anyone who has to write a last season of a hit show.
I’ll tell you the fuck what.
Jenny: Oh my god, no. No, no, no, no, no.
Kristin: ‘Cause it seems near impossible and you have to take big—like, you really
have to swing big in ways where you’re also gonna miss big in ways. So.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Anyway, Jenny. You know, speaking of swinging big. [both laugh]
Jenny: Before we go over to my little den of antiquity, I have a question that I
wanna ask you and the listeners.
Kristin: Mm?
Jenny: The Turok-Han is now dead, so perhaps this is a moot point. But has
anyone considered—has anyone just thought maybe for a minute about, like, trying
to love Turok-Han?
Kristin: Like, give him a hug?
Jenny: Yeah…
Kristin: I bet you not, Jenny.
Jenny: Well. I guess it’s too late now. We can’t…[laughs]
Kristin: But if you’re out there and you ever come upon a Turok-Han in the
wilderness.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Maybe, like, give him a cookie.
Jenny: Or maybe—maybe don’t. Maybe that could end poorly and then we’d
somehow be liable.
Kristin: Oh, no. Could we be liable for Turok-Han attacks? Fuck. [laughs]
Jenny: Unclear. Okay. Now let me take you away.


Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: To a very special place. Just for us.
Kristin: Can’t wait.
[SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays]
Sexual tension award!
Jenny: Well! I wouldn’t say this is the sexiest episode of the series. [both laugh]
Probably.
Kristin: It’s not the least sexiest, I can tell you that much! [both laugh]
Jenny: Also true. Somewhere in the middle. In slot number one, continuing on
their fiery not-yet-anything, but-hopefully-soon-something path from last episode,
it’s Xandrew, Continued! Mmm! Maybe the could—
Kristin: [simultaneously] [pleased] Ugh. Don’t fuck up his joystick hand.
Jenny: Exactly. [laughs] In slot number two, reminding me of a lot of sleepover
drama from my youth. [laughs]
Kristin: [laughing] Yeah.
Jenny: It’s Kennedy and Willow. What will they get up to? Will they ever sleep on
the same surface? Can’t wait to find out.
Kristin: Will they ever try to smoosh into one sleeping bag together?
Jenny: Mmmm. In slot number three—now, it’s hard to conceptualize the First Evil
in its non-corporeal form. And it’s hard to conceive of smushing something that is
incorporeal into a slot. And it’s also perhaps equally hard for us to conceive of what
exactly it is that we’re trying to accomplish with this slot. But there’s something
going on with, like, the First and Eve. And we’re not gonna say what it is, but we’re
just gonna say that it is, you know what I mean? [both laugh]
Kristin: The First just seems to be, like, real into Eve. You know?
Jenny: Yeah. They’re just—


Kristin: The First has reasons to use Buffy and use Spike and all this stuff. But
Eve?
Jenny: After a certain point, there’s no reason to keep wearing that face.
Kristin: No, the First loves it. The First loves being a southern belle.
Jenny: [laughs] And in slot number four, we simply couldn’t let him go without
bringing him into the fold. Even though we had very little to work with. Sometimes
Leo gets the Oscar for The Revenant, not because it’s his best work, but because
it’s just time for Leo to have an Oscar. You know what I mean? [both laugh] So in
that spirit, we’d like to offer up slot number four to Turok-Han and his OTP, grand
entrances.
Kristin: Oh, Turok-Han, I hope in the great beyond, somebody tries to give you a
hug, buddy.
Jenny: Mmhmm. Mmhmm.
Kristin: Rest in peace.
Jenny: If you would like to cast a vote in this episode’s Sexual Tension Awards,
please come on over and find the poll on our Twitter, @BufferingCast. Make your
voice heard in this very, very important—this vital democratic process. [laughs]
[SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays]
Sexual tension award!
Kristin: Well, Jenny. That was an episode.
Jenny: Kristin. Do you know what is true now?
Kristin: What’s—no. No. No. What’s true?
Jenny: [laughs] We are now 50% of the way through Season 7.
Kristin: Keep it. In the words of Ira Madison. [both laugh]
Jenny: Okay. Okay.
Kristin: We are. We’re halfway through, and—[exhales] I mean, what is gonna
happen next? Truly. Things just keep getting wilder and wilder. But at least we don’t


have to deal with Turok-Han anymore. And now, [Jenny laughs] I guess now that
Turok-Han’s gone, we have to just deal with the Bringers and the First?
Jenny: Yeah, or maybe it’ll just become more of a drama about an increasingly
jam-packed house full of gals. Getting to know one another, overcoming their
differences.
Kristin: The Real World: Sunnydale. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah, exactly.
Kristin: I just realized that this whole time, the First has the full ability to be
Turok-Han. [both laugh] So—
Jenny: Oh, yeah. Could the First be, like, a dinosaur?
Kristin: [laughing] Yeah!
Jenny: Is it, like, any thing that has died?
Kristin: I think so. I mean, because where’s the line? If, like—
Jenny: [simultaneously] Also, what a weird rule for the First Evil.
Kristin: [laughs] It’s like, if the First can be Spike, then the First should be able to
be Turok-Han. And if the First can be Turok-Han, then the First probably can be a
dinosaur. Why is the First not—
Jenny: [simultaneously] Turok-Han is closer to a dinosaur than to Spike, honestly.
[laughs]
Kristin: Right. Just like, the fact that the First can just be, like, squawking around
as a pterodactyl right now. Like, maybe it needs to get its priorities straight.
Jenny: [gasps] The fact that the First could get a Bringer to go to a payphone and
call Buffy’s house. And then the First could be saying stuff in Angel’s voice to Buffy?
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: I know!


Kristin: Okay, so before this conversation, I thought the First was really smart. And
now I’m like, actually, you could probably do better.
Jenny: [laughs] The First just isn’t thinking as creatively as we’d like.
Kristin: [laughs] Alright, well. That’ll do it for us…7/11. Go get a Sprite from a
fountain, you know what I mean? That’s what 7-Eleven makes me think of.
Jenny: [laughing] What? Sprite and 7-Eleven are two totally different sodas.
Kristin: 7-Eleven isn’t a soda. 7-Eleven is a store!
Jenny: Oh my god, I’m thinking of 7Up. [laughs]
Kristin: Oh, yeah. [both laugh] We gotta get outta here. We normally—
Jenny: We really do.
Kristin: We normally tape at, like, 10 in the morning and today, we taped at 4 PM
and this is what happens.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: We’re devolving. [Jenny laughs] It’s the end of the day—you got an end of
the day podcast this week.
Jenny: Yeah. Wild. Imagine nighttime podcast?
Kristin: No.
Jenny: I’d rather not.
Kristin: No.
Jenny: Uh, hey. I’m Jenny Owen Youngs and when I’m not making this podcast, I
write and record a lot of music. And sometimes I perform that music, and that is
something I will be doing very soon, on the west coast with friend of the pod,
Hrishikesh Hirway. We are playing shows in Seattle, Portland, San Francisco, and
Los Angeles. You can find tickets and info at jennyowenyoungs.com. And while
you’re waiting for those dates to come around, after you obtained your spicy little
tickets, you can pass the time by listening to my music on your favorite digital
music platform. And by talking to me on social media, @JennyOwenYoungs.


Kristin: Sometimes I also perform music by Jenny Owen Youngs.
Jenny: [laughing] That’s true. That’s true.
Kristin: Do you want me to perform—
Jenny: [simultaneously] Oh! Also, I stream live on Twitch almost every week. And
sometimes Kristin pops by in the chat and it’s very fun. So you should find it on
Twitch.
Kristin: [simultaneously] I’m only in the chat so you can’t tell I’m singing the
songs, but I am. [Jenny laughs] I’m like, [singing] “make it a clean break, make it a
fast cut, what the fuck was I, ding-ding-ding-ding-ding-ding—”
Jenny: That was very good. This is like—
Kristin: Thank you. I do a medley. It’s like the Britney Spears medley mashup, but
it’s all Jenny Owen Youngs songs. [laughs]
Jenny: Good, good, good. Great. Just what the people wanted.
Kristin: My name is Kristin Russo. You can learn about the work that I do when I
am not talking about Buffy or performing Jenny Owen Youngs songs, which is I talk
to people—workplaces, specifically—about being good to LGBTQ employees. And my
favorite thing is talking to workplaces about how the employees can be good to
their LGBTQ children. You can learn more about the talks that I give and the work
that I do on my website, kristinnoeline.com. That’s K-R-I-S-T-I-N N-O-E-L-I-N-E.
And you can use that spelling to also find me on Twitter and on Instagram.
Jenny: Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram
@BufferingCast. And you can email us at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
[starts a snare drum noise]
Kristin: If you’d like to support the work that we do, you can do that on Patreon.
Just go to Patreon.com/bufferingcast or find all of this information on our website,
bufferingthevampireslayer.com. [Jenny adds in instrument noises] You can also rate
and review us on iTunes. [Jenny stops] If you want, you could also rate and review
us…[Jenny laughs] what are you singing over there?
Jenny: I was just singing a backing track. [both laugh]


Kristin: You can also rate and review us on iTunes, or you can rate and review our
nemesis-ses, but please do it nicely even though they are our nemesis-ses, on
Angel On Top.
Jenny: This episode was produced by Kristin Russo, Jenny Owen Youngs, and Alba
Daza, with support from our consultant, Mackenzie MacDade. It was edited by John
Mark Nelson. And, till next time…
Both: Awwoooooooooo!
[The song “Showtime” plays]

