Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 7.08: Sleeper
[CHIME]
Jenny: Hey, everybody!
Kristin: Oh, hi! What a surprise. Kristin and Jenny, at the top of an episode of
Buffering the Vampire Slayer with some announcements. Hmph. [both laugh]
Jenny: I did not see this coming, personally.
Kristin: Me either. We like to keep you on your toes.
Jenny: Mmhmm!
Kristin: Hey, uh, if you are not aware, it is soon to be the 25th anniversary of the
first ever episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer airing on television. And we happen
to be celebrating the 25th anniversary of Buffy the Vampire Slayer airing on
television inside of Torrance High School, which is where they filmed the show. It is
actually Sunnydale High School. It’s not a big deal.
Jenny: Unbelievable.
Kristin: Yeah, ‘cause spoiler alert, it is a fucking big deal. And what’s amazing is
that now, if you’re not joining us in person, you can join us from the comfort of
your living room, your kitchen, your bedroom, wherever you have an internet
hookup. You can watch us talk to some incredible human beings about our very
favorite moments from Buffy. Specifically, our favorite moments that happened at
Sunnydale High School.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: It’s gonna be a really fun time.
Momenthouse.com/bufferingthevampireslayer is where you can scoop up those
virtual tickets. It is March 11th at 7 PM Pacific, and bonus prize, if you can’t join us
at 7 PM Pacific because you’ll be asleep or at work or…otherwise engaged, it’ll be on
demand for seven entire days.
Jenny: So fun!
Kristin: Yeah.


Jenny: Prom when you want it!
Kristin: Jenny, do you know who’s gonna join us on stage? Do you know—do you
know about some of our guests?
Jenny: Yes! Well. My very best friends, LaToya Ferguson and Morgan Lutich—
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: From Angel On Top.
Kristin: Is correct, that is correct.
Jenny: Number one—voted number one podcaster…[Kristin laughs] hard stop.
Joanna Robinson! [both laugh] We’ll also be talking to Evan Ross Katz whose Buffy
book is coming out.
Kristin: Ugh! It’s gonna be…
Jenny: Right around the same time as our prom, very, very cool.
Kristin: Epic. I literally texted Joanna Robinson, like, minutes ago and was like,
“Joanna, just so you know, like, you have to tell me your favorite moment that
happened at Sunnydale High School so that we can talk about it.” She texted me,
like, fifty things—immediately. [Jenny laughs] Like, she didn’t even stop to think.
She was like, boom, sending me pictures, sending me this episode, that episode.
[both laugh] So like, we know there’s going to be some people ready to talk about
this show. And I’m so excited.
Jenny: I know what my favorite moment—
Kristin: [simultaneously] Yeah.
Jenny: [simultaneously] At Sunnydale High School is. [laughs]
Kristin: Jenny and I are working on something pretty special, so you’ll just have to
tune in to find out. Momenthouse.com/bufferingthevampireslayer. Virtual tickets are
pretty cheap, they’re 10 bucks. And you also can scoop up some prom merch while
you’re in there, too. You can get it right—it’s just like—it’s almost like computers are
powerful things. It’s amazing. Anyway.


Jenny: It is.
Kristin: Details, of course, always also on our website,
bufferingthevampireslayer.com. And on our socials, we’ll be posting about it a whole
bunch. So come, join us, have fun, celebrate with the Buffer-ers. It’s gonna be a
good time.
Jenny: Well, the road to prom is long and winding—
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: Though it grows shorter every day, but we cannot possibly hope—
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: To reach prom without first crossing this sacred threshold.
Kristin: Yeah. Jenny—
Jenny: It’s the Sexual Tension Award results for Conversations with Dead People!
Kristin: Wild horses could not drag me away from these results. [both laugh]
Jenny: Excellent. Well, I’d like wild horses to drag me away [Kristin laughs] from
the noms who landed in slot number four, with 6% of the vote. It’s Holden Webster
and Spike.
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: Blegh!
Kristin: Yeah. Not a good pairing.
Jenny: In third place, not really receiving the respect I think they are due as a
pair—
Kristin: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Jenny: With a measly 7% of the vote, it’s Cassie’s mouth and negative space.
Kristin: I mean, literally wild horses could not drag you away. From Cassie’s mouth
and that negative space, you know. You’d just go—


Jenny: Correct.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Woop! Sucked right in. I’m upset too, they deserved
more.
Jenny: In slot number two, with 11% of the vote, we have Spike and his bloody
teeth. It’s fine, it’s no Cassie’s mouth and negative space but it’s fine.
Kristin: Mmhmm, mmhmm. Lot of mouth—lot of mouth…play.
Jenny: Mmm! Mmhmm. [both laugh]
Kristin: [laughing] Sexual Tension Awards.
Jenny: And in the number one slot, absolutely destroying any poll into which they
ever are entered—even in a theoretical sense—capturing 76% of the 761 votes we
received, it’s rumors of what Buffy and Faith were getting up to…in Season 3.
Kristin: Emily Brackets McLongstreet is already like, how will I make a slide for
this? How does one show the rumors of Buffy—[Jenny laughs] but I believe in you,
Emily.
Jenny: Emily will find a way!
Kristin: Emily will find a way. We’re keeping it…I was gonna say “tight,” and then I
was like, who am I, Jenny Owen Youngs?
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: Keeping it tight up in the intro, we just have an email to read before we
roll on over into Sleeper. I promised you that I would read to you an email called,
“Give Hecate a break.”
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: Tasha wrote in to, you know, respond to us saying, like, you know, Hecate,
man. Every time she sits down, she puts her fucking feet up, she just wants to
relax. And then somebody’s like, boom, Hecate, I need you again. Hey, Hecate!
Hey, excuse me, Hecate? [sighs]
Jenny: Is nothing sacred?


Kristin: Literally. I mean, that’s what she’s asking.
Jenny: Is Hecate destined to never relax?
Kristin: Well—
Jenny: To never recharge?
Kristin: Tasha’s trying to help out here, so I’m sure Hecate appreciates it. Tasha
wrote in and said, “I’m sure that you’ve gotten a slew of emails from other witches
about this already, but I wanted to put my dash of salt about Hecate [both laugh] in
pop culture.” Brilliant. You see, this is how you do it, people.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: This is how you write a fucking email.
Jenny: Yes. Yes.
Kristin: Tidy, lovely, funny, good. “It’s always Hecate who is called upon in TV and
movie spells because she’s the goddess of witchcraft, so a quick Google by a writer
makes her an obvious choice. She’s also referenced by Shakespeare, so it’s likely
that writers are already familiar with her due to her appearance in Macbeth.”
Jenny: Oh yeah.
Kristin: Yeah. “In regards to Willow’s spell, Hecate isn’t an obvious choice for a
deity to assist with a gender-bending love working, however.”
Jenny: Hmm.
Kristin: “True, Hecate is considered mutable because she has three faces.”
Jenny: Nice.
Kristin: [simultaneously] “But she’s also [laughs] the dark goddess who greets the
newly dead at the crossroads to the underworld to guide them.” [both laugh]
Jenny: That feeling when you are also the dark goddess who greets the newly dead
at the crossroads to the underworld to guide them. [both laugh] Of course!


Kristin: Of course. Tasha continues, “That’s a little morbid, to say the least. If
Willow wants a better deity—” [pronounced “day-ity”] Is that how you say that?
Jenny: I think it’s deity? [pronounced “dee-ity”]
Kristin: Yeah, I was wondering why you didn’t correct me last—
Jenny: [simultaneously] But also, I think the Latin would kind of imply that it would
be “day-ity.”
Kristin: Mmm. “If Willow wants a better deity to assist her to her ends, she should
call upon Eros, AKA Cupid—”
Jenny: Hmmm.
Kristin: “According to the Romans.”
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: “The playful and youthful god of both love and gender fluidity.”
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: “Keep up the great work. Love in queer witchcraft, Tasha.” Chef’s. Kiss.
Jenny: Thank you, Tasha!
Kristin: Chef’s kiss, Tasha! Thank you so much. And now—
Jenny: It is good.
Kristin: Without further ado. Shall we…shall we find out what Anya might do in the
room of one Spike?
Jenny: We shall.
Kristin: [whispers] Great.
[Buffering theme plays]
Jenny: [takes deep breath] Hello! Hello, hello! And welcome to Buffering the
Vampire slayer, a podcast where we are watching and discussing every episode of


Buffy the Vampire Slayer, one by one, spoiler free, in tandem with those girls I
would absolutely never stab with a curved knife. [Kristin laughs] Angel On Top.
Kristin: How nice of you.
Jenny: I know! If only they would return the favor. I’m Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: And I am Kristin Russo and this week, we are here talking about Season 7,
Episode 8 of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, Sleeper. Stay tuned at the end of this
podcast every other week for an original song, written by Jenny, sometimes with
the help of her friends, recapping the Buffy episode we are discussing.
Jenny: Wow. In that outlet, you are my friend.
Kristin: [laughs] You like how I just squeaked that right in there?
Jenny: Yeah, well, I guess—
Kristin: Look for your B-Fri necklace in the mail.
Jenny: [laughing] Uh-huh, that’s—
Kristin: I took the -est, -ends. [laughs]
Jenny: It’s too late to argue, so okay. [Kristin laughs] Sleeper was written by David
Fury and Jane Espenson and directed by Alan J. Levi? Question mark?
Kristin: Who? Whomst?!
Jenny: Whomst indeed.
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: And it originally aired on—
Kristin: I know.
Jenny: Buckle up. November 19th!
Kristin: I know.
Jenny: 2002. Storm clouds are gathering.


Kristin: [simultaneously] Yeah. It’s happening.
Jenny: Murders of crows amass on rooftoops! [both laugh]
Kristin: I saw it and my eyes got real big. They did. I was like, oh shit!
Jenny: Deep in a haunted wood, inside a crumbling cabin, or a bubbling cauldron—
Kristin: Or.
Jenny: One alewife raises her head, stares directly into the camera and says,
“Something wicked this way comes!” Because Jenny Owen Youngs is turning 21 in
three days!
Kristin: Holy shit.
Jenny: Three days after this episode.
Kristin: I’ve heard stories of Jenny Owen Youngs’ 21st birthday. I’ve seen
photographic proof.
Jenny: [simultaneously] It’s not good.
Kristin: It was a wild time!
Jenny: [simultaneously] [claps on each word] It’s not. Good.
Kristin: I think—
Jenny: Boo!
Kristin: I have a memory of, like, a tie—like, an Avril Lavigne tie?
Jenny: [simultaneously] No, no, no, no, no. There’s simply no reason to get into
specifics. [laughs]
Kristin: [simultaneously] A plaid skirt, I think, yeah.
Jenny: Away, woman! [Kristin laughs] Away! [laughs]
Kristin: Best friends!


Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Speaking of crows—I know I’m supposed to give you the episode
description right now, but I just wanna let you know that I spoke to a friend of mine
last night, who is training the crows in her neighborhood to come by for snacks and
treats in the hopes that they will begin to deliver her gifts. And it’s, like, all I can
think about. I’m so excited about it. And they—
Jenny: What kind of gifts is this person hoping for from crows?
Kristin: Well, they leave, like, shiny things, you know?
Jenny: Ohh.
Kristin: Like coins or buttons or whatever, and that’s, like, a sign that they are your
friend! And they, like, [Jenny gasps] appreciate what you do. And I’ve seen a couple
of things like this on the internet. Like, people in the city will do this and like, the
crows will literally, like, come and leave them trinkets outside the window. ‘Cause
they’re like, you are a friend.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: Yeah, I’m sure we have some, like, crow-ologists in the listenership—
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: And they can correct any wrongs that I’ve said. But I am just so excited
about this situation. And I’m like, you don’t understand. Like, can you install a
webcam for me? Like, I don’t even want photo updates. I wanna just be able to
watch, live, as the crows—
Jenny: 24-hour crow feed.
Kristin: She said one of the crow babies was, like, clicking at her the other day.
[Jenny gasps] I know!
Jenny: Babies? Well! To our extensive corvid expert listenership, please write in to
bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com and tell us everything you know about crows
and their bird cousins and the giving of shiny gifts, thank you.


Kristin: The definition—or the, like, demarcation of the kind of host I am and the
kind of host you are is that I said “crow-ologists” and you used the word “corvid.”
So.
Jenny: Correct. [both laugh]
Kristin: Anyway, do you wanna know what this episode’s about? [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah, what—which is this the one where? [laughs]
Kristin: This is the one where Buffy and her friends fear Spike may be to blame
when a number of people around town mysteriously disappear.
Jenny: Ruh-roh! This Previously On is, like, the polar opposite of the Him
Previously On. It’s like, something big is coming. Girls are getting stabbed—
Kristin: [simultaneously] Do you remember?
Jenny: [simultaneously] Do you remember those girls who got stabbed?
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah, do you remember them?
Jenny: They were roommates! [Kristin laughs] Dawn saw Joyce and Joyce said,
“When it gets bad, Buffy won’t choose you.” Cassie and Willow, Spike biting Justine
Junior, FBYID!
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Spike sired Holden Webster! [takes deep breath] And here we are at the top
of the episode.
Kristin: Spike is canonically bisexual, right? Like, that’s—that’s, like, canon at this
point. We can’t not say that it’s not, right?
Jenny: Um…
Kristin: I’m…calling it.
Jenny: Okay. [laughs]


Kristin: The date, February 9th. I know it’s weird, ‘cause you’re listening to this
and you’re like, it’s not February 9th. But it’s important to really note the fact that
it’s February 9th, 2022.
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: Kristin Noeline Russo—
Jenny: [laughs] Okay.
Kristin: Sitting in upstate New York has declared it is canon. Spike the vampire is
bisexual.
Jenny: Yes, I suppose we are the most qualified people…
Kristin: Mmhmm. Mmhmm.
Jenny: To declare what is and is not canon—
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: On the show Buffy the Vampire Slayer.
Kristin: And if we need James to confirm that, I’m certain that he would.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: I am certain that he would do that for us. Okay? Anyway, you’re right.
Good Previously Ons. You forgot to mention that Cassie swallowed herself again in
the Previously On. [both laugh] So, we are—this is a direct—like, direct from
Conversations with Dead People. We did not miss a minute, not a beat. It’s like a—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Just right from Conversations with Dead People. Buffy ran to Xander’s door
and was like, da-da-da-da-da-da.
Jenny: Yeah. Did you notice what appears to be maybe, like, some kind of skull
mask—
Kristin: [laughing] Yes!


Jenny: Hanging to the right of Xander’s bedroom door? What is that? [laughs]
Kristin: [simultaneously] I did. I was like—I don’t know. It looked like a Ghostface
prop, but like, not quite Ghostface, as a decoration? It’s very weird.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah.
Kristin: An odd choice for Sunnydale, in my opinion.
Jenny: Yeah, why bring that into your home when it’s already everywhere else?
[both laugh]
Kristin: And everything else in the apartment is like, blueprints. Stencils to draw
blueprints with. Tools.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Tools.
Kristin: Like, yeah, it’s all—[laughs]
Jenny: Xander’s little home bar.
Kristin: Yeah, the tiki bar.
Jenny: He’s like, my apartment has three rooms. And one of them is the sort of,
like, kitchen, and then one of them is, like, a living room where stuff happens but
there’s a bar. The kitchen—I can see the kitchen from the bar, but it’s important for
there to be a bar. It’s like, you can sit on the couch in the living room and look at
the bar.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Where there are seats. And you can stand in the kitchen and look at the
bar, where there are drinks. It just seems…
Kristin: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Jenny: Possibly…
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Like Xander has made a very specific choice about what he’s doing with his
space.


Kristin: [laughs] And one of those things is hanging a ghoul from in between the
two doors.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Maybe it’s to scare Spike, just in case Spike gets a little frisky, you know?
Comes out in the middle of the night. He’s like, ahh!
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: And then Xander’s like, oh! Spike’s awake, better be on guard or ready to
kiss.
Jenny: [laughs] Uh-huh. Uh-huh.
Kristin: [simultaneously] I don’t know how he’s gonna play that one, but. Anyway.
Jenny: Uh, “creature of the night, he’s probably out creature-ing.”
Kristin: [simultaneously] Creature-ing. Yeah, it’s good. “Is he in trouble?” Xander
said, and—
Jenny: [gasps] Best friends!
Kristin: Yeah! Because he—
Jenny: [simultaneously] He’s not like, “Did he do something evil?” He’s like, “Is he
in trouble? My—[gasps]—roommate.”
Kristin: Yeah, I actually—I really like the way that Xander shows up in this episode,
for the most part. And seeing Xander be able to, like, do what Xander does in this
episode just really makes me wonder why we can’t have Xander do this in all the
episodes. You know? Like, he’s there to be—as he uses the word later, I
think—objective. Right? He’s trying to parse through the facts, okay, fair, that’s fair.
But also, he is not being, like, all black and white. He’s…has some room for Spike in
this. And I would prefer if he just was always written this way, you know?
Jenny: Yeah. Meanwhile, while they’re having this little conversation, what is Spike
up to? What does creature-ing entail? Tonight, it entails digging a little grave in a
dirt floor basement for Justine Junior, while humming a little song to himself.


Southern California friends. Do any of you have a dirt floor basement or a basement
at all?
Kristin: [simultaneously] Or a basement at all? Yeah. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah. This…my suspension of disbelief bumped.
Kristin: Yeah, I mean, I actually forgot that Californians usually—at least, southern
Californians usually don’t have basements, or they’re not as common. But Buffy
does have one, so we’re not saying you can’t have a basement. We had a
basement, kind of.
Jenny: But a dirt floor?! A dirt floor?!
Kristin: [simultaneously] But a dirt floor is…yeah. How does that even work? Can
an—critters just crawl up through the dirt into your house? Like, I don’t like it. But
you know, if you’re a dirt floor expert. [laughing] Just let us know.
Jenny: Yeah. [laughing] Dirt floor-ologists, please write in to
bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin: This is, um—this is nice. I think the timing—like, we don’t talk a lot about
editors. And obviously the director has a lot to do with this as well. But like, the
directing and editing in this scene, I think, is just really nice. ‘Cause it’s nice and
long, you know? Like, it’s not just, like—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: A couple of scoops. You really get time with the humming.
Jenny: “A couple of scoops.” Oh, of the shovel. I thought—yeah, I was like,
picturing ice cream and I was like, [Kristin laughs] interesting…visual
represent—okay.
Kristin: No, a couple of scoops of dirt. You get—you get to really, like, sit in the
moment and, like, feel it. And I like that they do that, because it changes it from
just like, “uh-oh, Spike is burying somebody.” [both laugh] It’s like—it’s really a lot
more haunting, ‘cause of the length of it.
Jenny: Yeah. ‘Cause—yeah, it’s so casual.
Kristin: Mmhmm.


Jenny: We get the credits and then, Kristin, we get I think my favorite [Kristin
laughs] B-roll I’ve ever seen. What is this grainy-ass nonsense?
Kristin: This is, like—
Jenny: The WB couldn’t afford a high-resolution—did somebody take this on their
phone?
Kristin: [simultaneously] [laughing] On a camcorder. Like…legit.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Like, what is—what? What?
Kristin: This is, like, somebody’s niece got—[laughs]
Jenny: [simultaneously] They were like, “Tony. Tony, since you’re gonna be in this
episode, could you go down to the street and just…[Kristin laughs] take some VHS
footage really quick for us? We just need a little establishing shot.” Or are they
like—you know how in some shows—okay, like, in Veronica Mars, like, a certain era
of flashback is, like, very blue-y?
Kristin: Mmhmm, right.
Jenny: You know? They kind of, like, color code—filter stuff?
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Maybe it’s like, ah, jolly old England, where the video resolution is lower,
actually.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Yeah, sure. That would track if anything else that was
shot in London had that effect. [Jenny laughs] But it’s only this establishing shot.
It’s really bad. [both laugh] But what’s good is that we see “London” on the bottom
of the TV. And I was like, yay! Because we haven’t been to London in a minute.
We’ve been missing old Daddy Giles, haven’t we?
Jenny: “Old Daddy Giles?”
Kristin: Listen. Okay? We all—I’ve been doing this podcast for almost six years. I’m
letting it loose, that’s it, it’s over.


Jenny: Old Daddy Giles. [both laugh] Uh…so…yeah, I mean, we don’t get to see
Giles quite yet. But someone who we can later assume is his colleague—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Robson—is coming home and oh no, you—you know that feeling—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: When you’ve come home from a long day and it’s like, really grainy outside.
[Kristin laughs] And like, you’ve just really had it and then, oh god, there is a girl
stabbed on your floor also.
Kristin: Yeah. But then, you have the wherewithal to—
Jenny: [simultaneously] This is just—ugh.
Kristin: Use your briefcase as a shield!
Jenny: Very cool move.
Kristin: Hot, Robson. Good job, man. That was good.
Jenny: You can see why he and Giles are buddies.
Kristin: Oh, yeah. I think there’s a little kissing happening between—
Jenny: Little, quote, “sparring?”
Kristin: Little swordplay happening in—
Jenny: Little Buffy and Faith, “oh yeah, we should do some more training.” [both
laugh]
Kristin: Yeah, that’s just my hunch based on—we’ll talk about the last scene. But I
feel like, you know, there’s a little smooching happening between those two.
Ghostface, this Ghostface guy, he’s quick. He’s way less clumsy than the actual
Ghostface. He gets around the whole wall and has the full curved knife in Robson’s
back before Robson can even, like, get his hand on the sword. Real quick. Our
Ghostface—our Scream Ghostface would have tripped a few times, he woulda
knocked over a vase, he woulda—you know.


Jenny: [laughs] Woop-woop-woop-woop-woop!
Kristin: Yeah. [both laugh] This guy’s fast.
Jenny: Slipped in a—like, done the thing where he’s, like, running in place in a
puddle of blood [Kristin laughs] and that, like, percussion instrument is going like,
[sings percussive tune]. [both laugh] Before he can start moving forward again.
Kristin: His mask is crooked, he gotta fix it, you know?
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah.
Kristin: But yeah. Robson’s stabbed in the back. Nora, face down in a pool of her
own blood. And then we cut to the Summers house, where now Willow,
continuity-wise, has run from the library and is bustin’ the door. Calls for Buffy, is so
focused on, like, “I gotta find Buffy” that she doesn’t even look over to see the
situation in this house, until Dawn says, “She’s not here.”
Jenny: In the sobering light of day, this house looks even worse—
Kristin: [simultaneously] Oooh. [laughs]
Jenny: Than it looked in the last episode.
Kristin: It’s done what—
Jenny: This is such a brutal decimation of the Summers household. [laughs]
Kristin: It is. And I will say that it’s done, like—what I’m about to say is an
undercut to the set, okay. But I think it’s done very well. I think, like, unless you’re
Kristin Russo, like, combing through the particulars because you make a podcast
about it, it’s done great. There’s glass on the couch, everything’s everywhere.
[laughing] But when I was watching it closely, I noticed there was just a bunch of
crumpled-up newspaper on the table. [both laugh] I was like, so where did that
come from? Was the poltergeist just, like, ballin’ up—[laughs]
Jenny: Yeah, was getting ready to do some paper mache.
Kristin: Yeah, yeah. [laughs]


Jenny: Okay, so they have this exchange. You know, Dawn is like, “I saw Mom,”
and Willow’s like, “It probably wasn’t her. I saw something too.” Willow says—this is
so interesting—“It looked like someone else.” Dawn knows Cassie!
Kristin: I know. Do you—I mean, it doesn’t—
Jenny: Say Cassie.
Kristin: Yeah. It doesn’t look intentional on Willow’s part, that she’s not saying
Cassie. But who knows at this point. I don’t even know if anyone on the show
remembers who knows who at—you know? Like, does Willow even remember that
Dawn knows Cassie? Who’s to say?
Jenny: [singsong] Yeah.
Kristin: So she’s like, “It’s the big bad—” She’s basically, like, telling Dawn that she
doesn’t think it was really Joyce. That, like, this thing happened to her and it
probably also happened to Dawn.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Mmhmm.
Kristin: And then she says, “It’s the big bad.” We don’t often hear our characters
refer, in-universe, to big bads. I always like when that happens. “The one we know
is coming.” Oh, Jenny, you look like you don’t like when that’s…
Jenny: I don’t like it. It really clanked for me here, and in a little bit—
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: From Willow again. It just felt a little, like, clunk.
Kristin: Yeah. [laughs]
Jenny: I don’t know.
Kristin: And Dawn is like…
Jenny: [laughs] Dawn! [Kristin laughs] Dawn—Dawn does some things that I really
love. [laughs]
Kristin: She’s just, like, so emotionally distraught. Because it’s like…she has two
choices. One is to believe it was really her mom, which means that her sister will


betray her—I mean, I guess the word wasn’t “betray” but like, that her sister won’t
help her. Or she has to believe that, like, it wasn’t her mom, and that Buffy won’t—
Jenny: I know.
Kristin: [simultaneously] And it—and you can see her—she just, like, waffles back
and forth with this through the whole episode.
Jenny: She does. But lucky us that she does, [laughing] because this is the first
instance of something that truly delights me. When she’s like, “Oh, Mom said things
were coming and also, uh, that she, uh, loved us. [Kristin laughs] She said that she
loved us.” To which I say, [singing] smooth! Dawn-perator! [speaking] What do you
think?
Kristin: [simultaneously] Dawn-perator, nice.
Jenny: That’s right.
Kristin: Okay. I’ll approve it. I’ll allow it.
Jenny: She’s a smooth Dawn-perator. [both laugh]
Kristin: So we go over to Xander’s. And there’s a conversation now happening
between Buffy and Xander, where she has, you know, told Xander what happened
and that Spike has sired somebody, allegedly, according to this vampire. But maybe
not, maybe it’s a lie. And…[laughs] Xander’s like, “Why would somebody lie about
who sired them? Do you think it’s like a competition? Like, a [laughs] whose sire is
better than whose other sire?” And then they’re sort of trying to think this through,
and this is what I was saying before. Like, I like how Xander shows up here. Even
when he says—like, they’re talking about the chip and Buffy’s like, “Spike can’t hurt
anyone.” And Xander says, “It didn’t stop him from hurting you.” But, like, we’ve
seen Xander deliver these kinds of lines in ways that make me wanna fucking slap
him across the face. And he does not do this here. Like, he really is just saying,
like, okay, but like, he hurt you so that’s, like, a fact we should have on the table.
He’s not doing it smarmily or judgily or, like, shittily. You know?
Jenny: It’s interesting that nobody brings up the fact that Spike has said as much.
Like, that his chip stopped working with Buffy, but it was still working with everyone
else. That’s, like, something that’s already been established. Which I could see
questioning that after the fact, but it looks like they don’t even remember that
that’s a thing?


Kristin: Oh, is that—? I just—because of this scene, I was like, literally wondering,
like, why did Buffy not tell anybody? I know at first she wasn’t—
Jenny: Nah, don’t you remember, like, her having an exchange with Spike where
he was like, “You came back wrong.” And he’s—
Kristin: Yeah, but then she hid that from all the Scoobies. Because she was, like,
terrified of what she was and the way that she had come back. And so I’m not—
Jenny: Well, why doesn’t she bring that up here?
Kristin: Well, ‘cause did she—so that was my question, is she still—
Jenny: [simultaneously] Right, right.
Kristin: Feeling shame about this? Because it feels like she’s, like, moved past the
“I came back wrong” of it all. So if it hasn’t been—and I’m sorry to those of you
listening, ‘cause we should probably know. But I don’t think that she’s told them
this. And at this point, she definitely should. Like, this is the moment when she
needs to be like, “So, funny thing.” [both laugh] Like, especially—even if not now,
then like, by the end of this episode where they’re bringing him back into the house
and she’s like, “I’m gonna get close to Spike so that I can get close to this evil.”
Like, that’s when you say, like, “Also, just so you guys know, like, he can hurt—like,
none of you? But me. He can actually—he can hurt me.”
Jenny: But I think they can safely assume. I think they are already aware that he
can hurt her, because of the assault—
Kristin: Okay.
Jenny: Last season.
Kristin: It just, like, wasn’t a conversation. It was just, like, they—
Jenny: Maybe it wasn’t a conversation we saw.
Kristin: Mmhmm. Okay.
Jenny: You know?
Kristin: Alright.


Jenny: Because it seems like—it seems like this conversation that Xander and Buffy
are having, they are acknowledging, sort of, that like—
Kristin: That this is fact.
Jenny: That Spike can hurt Buffy without neurological distress. But that he appears
to experience neurological distress when he hurts other humans.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Because they’re wondering, oh, is it—you know, is he faking it? What’s
going on?
Kristin: Right. I, like, so wanted—when he punches Xander later, I was like, I wish
I could call the Scoobies and be like, “Guys, he’s not faking it ‘cause I saw him do it
and nobody was there to see him do it.” [both laugh] Like, I really wanna bear
witness for them. Like, guys, no one was watching but he definitely got affected.
[both laugh] Anyway, so. Right. Buffy is like, “I really think he’s different, but if this
is an act—like, if he’s been acting this whole time, then the Oscar goes to…ol’
Spike.”
Jenny: [simultaneously] Enter Spike! [Kristin laughs] Oh, hello, Spike. A person we
know, who we were totally not just talking about right now. Welcome! I’m just here
at 4:30 for no particular reason.
Kristin: This choice to, like, have Buffy dangle the carrot of saying Holden
Webster’s name is so funny to me. Like, what do you think happens when Spike
bites somebody? Like, do you think that they’ve been like, “Hey, bud. My name’s
Spike.” I mean, I guess Holden knew Spike’s name, so like, what happened there?
[laughs] Does Spike—I mean, he doesn’t remember, obviously, at this point. But
like, does he get the names of the people that he bites? It doesn’t seem like he
does. So, it just was funny that Buffy was like, “Well, I met a vampire I knew, and
his name [Jenny laughs] was Holden Webster.”
Jenny: [simultaneously] Holden.
Kristin: Pause.
Jenny: Holden, pause, Holden Webster. [both laugh]
Kristin: Xander clearly idolized this guy in high school, ‘cause he refers to him as
Webs, which is [both laugh] what Holden said people used to refer to him as.


Xander’s like, [Jenny groans] “You see how he was when you mentioned Webs?”
[laughs] Stop it, man. [Jenny laughs] Stop it. Play the Patriarchy jingle for these
two fuckers.
[THE PATRIARCHY jingle plays]
The patriarchy! [thunder clap, evil laughter]
Jenny: Why?
Kristin: I don’t know. Dudes being—
Jenny: Guys being guys?
Kristin: Dudes being dudes, being like, “ohh—yeah, you shoulda seen Webs the
other night, man. Yeah, Webs, he’s so good at taekwondo.” [laughs]
Jenny: [groaning] Noo. [both laugh]
Kristin: “Oh, Xander got on the swim team, man.” “Aw, yeah, we should go out for
some drinks at The Bronze, bro!”
Jenny: [simultaneously] Ohh. Agghh! [laughs]
Kristin: “Can I wear your letterman jacket, man?” Like, that’s why I played the
Patriarchy jingle, Jenny.
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: Is that a good enough reason? [laughs]
Jenny: I…follow your heart. I do like seeing Spike so sensitive here, you know?
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: His immediate go-to response is to be like, oh man, that must have been
really tough.
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah, he does—I mean, James does a really good job here of not
knowing. You know? Of like—of like, truly showing us that Spike has no idea what’s
happening. And we learn that, like, literally through this episode. But you can see it
in everything he does, even in these—


Jenny: Yep.
Kristin: Few lines that he has. So.
Jenny: Yep. Yep, yep.
Kristin: Buffy’s like, well, somebody needs to watch him. And Xander’s like—
Jenny: We’re gonna need a babysitter.
Kristin: Dude, I can’t, I have work. I have a big client meeting I gotta go to. [both
laugh] So who do they—who’s always called for babysitting duty? Of course.
Jenny: Well! It’s Anya, who is not having it, now that she’s here in the apartment
and has discovered why they want her to babysit. On account of the possible
murders.
Kristin: Yeah. Her entry—like, the edit here is great. It’s just like, uh-uh, forget it,
Harris! Just like, her face in the screen. It’s so funny. [Jenny laughs] Emma
Caulfield is fantastic in this episode. [laughs]
Jenny: She’s going. I love—I love, I love…her immediate, like, “Well! Have you
searched his room for clues?”
Kristin: [simultaneously] [whispers] Oh my god.
Jenny: “He might have some scalps or necklaces made of human teeth!” She
goes—
Kristin: [simultaneously] Killers like to keep trophies sometimes, did you know?
Jenny: Yeah, she’s like, “I will sit here and listen to my murder podcasts whilst I
wait for Spike to awaken.”
Kristin: She’s reading a magazine that I did not, like, rewind to get a closer look
at. But it does say “sex” in giant letters on the cover. [laughs]
Jenny: Good. Good!
Kristin: Yeah. So Xander’s like, “You’ll be safe here” as he’s opening the blinds.
[laughing] “There’s plenty of sunlight you can hide in.” [both laugh] Also, like, come
on. Why are we playing at the fact that Anya couldn’t—I mean. If—I guess, like,


there is a risk to Anya. But it’s not like she’s just any old human in this house. She’s
fucking Anya Jenkins, you know?
Jenny: It’s true, she is. [laughs]
Kristin: She can hold her own. She knows how to fight. She just fought off a
demon, like, two episodes ago. So then my favorite, I think, moment in the whole
episode…[laughing] is when Xander’s leaving for work, right after he’s like, “You’ll
be safe, just hide in the sunlight.” And she’s like, “If I get vamped, I’m gonna bite
your ass.” And he goes, “Wouldn’t be the first time.” And she’s like, “What did you
say?” [both laughing] And the look on his face is so good. And I love that Anya
loves butts. [both laugh]
Jenny: Good for Anya.
Kristin: Yes. Good for Anya. Bite all the butts that you want to, Anya, with consent.
[both laugh]
Jenny: Back at the Summers house, Buffy is the latest individual who’s getting two
eye-fulls of this frigging destroyed house.
Kristin: Ugh, god. Yeah. Willow: “The thing that’s been promising to devour us? I
think it started chomping.” [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah. Clonk! Clank, clack!
Kristin: You hate “chomping”?!
Jenny: Uhh…
Kristin: Okay, the big bad, I—the big bad, I have room for, as a clank. “Chomping”
is my favorite. Mostly because LaToya says it all the time, and I love the word
“chomping”—
Jenny: Yeah, and if LaToya was in this episode saying “chomping,” I would love it.
Kristin: But it’s such a Willowism. Willow would say “chomping.” That’s some
Willow shit, come on.
Jenny: I don’t know. I don’t know.
Kristin: Alright, well, I’m going—I’m firmly planting my approval on “chomping.”


Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: I have wiggle room on “big bad.” So Willow is telling Buffy that, like, this
thing happened in the library and it said it was Tara. It knew so much about, like,
so many things. And Dawn saw your mother. This is a very weird cut, ‘cause it, like,
cuts back to Buffy and it’s almost like we missed her response. But she’s, like, very
blank. Like, that makes sense, but it’s just, like, a weird moment where you expect
to see her hear what Willow said, but she doesn’t?
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, it’s funny.
Kristin: Yeah. And so, this gets her—[Jenny cackles] [laughing] what happened?
Jenny: Yeah, because—because…Willow’s like, “You know, this thing had me for a
while. The lies were very convincing.” And Buffy’s immediately like, “Lies, you say!”
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: “Lies! How interesting!”
Kristin: Yeah. She’s hopeful. I mean, we’re all hopeful, right? Like, I understand. I
would be hopeful too. Nobody wants to think that, like, Spike is killing people.
That’s—
Jenny: Yeah, no.
Kristin: Bad news. And like, just macro for a second. But Buffy’s ability to—and
we’ll get more into it when we get to the dirt floor basement scene. But like, her
ability to sort of walk this line of, “I think that this evil is fucking with me by making
me think that Spike is going to hurt me” is really commendable. I think it’s, like,
really incredible the way that she walks that. Because that’s just something where,
like—I mean, god. Somebody could, like, doubt my sincerity on something I said
and I could get in my head about it, let alone, like, [laughing] whether or not
someone might be out to murder me or not. [Jenny laughs] Like, just the fact that
she can, like, really hold her own. Because it seems like this evil’s biggest move is,
like, just gaslighting people. You know? Just like, making them doubt what they
believe to be true. And like, un—from beneath you, it devours. I mean, that’s kind
of the whole thing, right? Like—
Jenny: Sorry, Kristin. You said a phrase but I didn’t understand it.


Kristin: [simultaneously] I’m sorry, what I meant to say was FBYID!
Jenny: Thank you. [both laugh] Okay, whew!
Kristin: So anyway. Buffy’s basically like, if this is happening—if this is, like, really
happening, I need to see it for myself. [laughs] Meanwhile.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Yep, yep. Yep. Meanwhile—
Kristin: [simultaneously] Detective Anya. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah. Sitting in the Angel lighting of what is now Xander’s apartment.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Anya, for some reason, absolutely terrified but also is like, why don’t I
sneak into the room with no windows?
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: And poke around while Spike is sleeping. There. In that room. Looking for
clues!
Kristin: Sleeping exactly like Angelus and Angel sleep. [Jenny laughs] All vampires
sleep with no clothes on—
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: Chest bared, sheets rolled just above their groin area. Just—
Jenny: Yeah, yeah. [both laugh]
Kristin: All bits exposed that are suitable for television, that is how vampires sleep.
Jenny: [simultaneously] The way…the good lord intended.
Kristin: Yeah, I mean, this checks for me, with Anya. Like, it’s like, as scared as
she is, she just—you know, she—
Jenny: She needs to know.


Kristin: She needs to know and she also, like—even later, when she’s like, “that
computer is a moron.” Like, she just really believes that, like, she can figure it the
fuck out. Just give her some time.
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: And so, this is her being that. You know? She’s like, I’m scared but like,
these fuckers will take three episodes to sort this shit. I’m just gonna go in right
now and save us some time.
Jenny: Spike wakes up because of course he does.
Kristin: Oh my god.
Jenny: But don’t worry! She’s got a perfectly reasonable explanation for why she’s
here.
[Clip from episode plays]
Spike: Do be specific and tell a fellow just exactly what you’re doing here.
Anya: Well. Spike. I’m here, obviously, for, um…sex.
Spike: Um. Beg pardon?
Anya: You and me. Here and now. Let’s go. Let’s…get it on, you big, bad boy.
Kristin: “Let’s get it on, you big, bad boy.” This is…[Jenny exhales] Emma
Caulfield’s wheelhouse.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Like, Emma Caulfield being able to give us comedy in an awkward
scenario, especially when it’s related to sex of any kind, is just a joy, a treat.
Jenny: Yes! I’m here, of course! Obviously, [Kristin laughs] for, uh, the, uh, sex.
I’m here for the sex, and I’ve got this stake in my hand. [both laughing] Of course
I’m here for sex. It’s not like I’m snooping around, looking for proof that you’re a
serial killer.
Kristin: [simultaneously] [laughing] Oh my god, when—when—


Jenny: Why did I even say that? It’s nerves and horniness. Nerves, and horniness.
[laughs]
Kristin: [laughing] When Spike is like, “Is that a stake?” and she goes, “Yeah,
kinky!” and then just throws it across the room. [both laugh] Oh, god bless it,
Emma Caulfield. “No talking. No questions.” Her, like, finger on his fucking lips.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah.
Kristin: It’s so good. Physical comedy, timing, all of it. Just standing ovation. Until,
of course, then she gets a little fat-shamey. [laughs] But apart from the fat
shaming, this pivot is—you can’t get more Anya than this shit, right? Like, she’s in
there ‘cause she’s trying to find clues. Her cover is that she wants to have sex with
Spike. Spike is like, “I can’t—I can’t do that.” And then—everything goes out the
fucking window. And she’s like, “Why the fuck not? What the fuck is wrong with me?
You don’t like my haircut?” [laughs]
Jenny: Uh-huh, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: “This is because of your soul, isn’t it? If you didn’t have a soul, you’d have
me upside down and halfway to happy town by now.” [laughs] Like—
Jenny: So bummed that this man she was convinced is a serial killer [Kristin
laughs] minutes ago isn’t banging her in half.
Kristin: [laughs] So—
Jenny: Now, Anya retires to the living room, where she’s chilling. What is her
pretense for hanging around her ex-fiance’s apartment into the night?
Kristin: Yeah, I, like—I actually thought that, when Spike came out, he was going
to be like, “Why are still—like, what are you doing here still?” But apparently, he’s
fine with whatever’s happening between Anya and Xander that would have her just
chilling with a magazine.
Jenny: Sure.
Kristin: But it’s—so it’s nighttime now? I’m so confused. So she’s been there all
day?
Jenny: All day!


Kristin: And so, she did last for a while before she went in for this sneak attack.
Jenny: Yeah, it looked like it was, like, late afternoon. The sun looked like it was
late afternoon by the time she went poking around.
Kristin: Okay, alright.
Jenny: And then obviously the sun is down by the time he’s getting up to go out.
And he leaves, and Anya calls Buffy and lets her know. Now. Downtown Sunnydale.
Never before have this many people—
Kristin: Right?
Jenny: Amassed in the streets of downtown Sunnydale before. They are wall to
fucking wall. There are so many people, and they’re so close together, and they’re
all walking in wild crisscrosses.
Kristin: [laughs] I don’t think I’ve ever seen this many people on this show. Like,
ever.
Jenny: No.
Kristin: The amount of extras is wild. For what? Like, why—[laughs] I mean, like,
it’s fine, it’s good. But it just seems like so much money to spend, when I have to
imagine there was an easier way to do this. [laughs]
Jenny: No, you don’t understand. Buffy needed, like, a real insurmountable
obstacle that would prevent her from catching up with Spike and his prey.
Kristin: I would have preferred if she was tracking Spike, but then, Angel had
popped down to, like, get a new leather coat at the mall. And she had, like, bumped
into Angel. [Jenny laughs] And was like, “Oh, it’s so funny meeting you here, but
I’m just kinda busy right now?”
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: That would have been my preferred distraction. Yes. I also posited that the
man on harmonica is the same guy who was like, “my toys!” He looks like that guy.
Jenny: Ohh!
Kristin: Yeah.


Jenny: Oh. The harmonicist?
Kristin: The harmonicist, yeah. ‘Cause he died, right? That guy died?
Jenny: Oh yes, he died!
Kristin: [laughs] Well, so I—so I thought, like, well, this evil thing seems to be
taking all these shapes of different people—
Jenny: Oh.
Kristin: Who are dead, so maybe he was having a good chuckle with himself and
he was like, let me be that toys guy for a second. He was wild. [laughs] What a
hoot. So this is when you really get to see how women behave when a hot man
approaches them randomly at a mall.
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah, this is very realistic, right? [Kristin laughs] A hot guy comes
up to you and you’re like, let us please retire to an alley at once where I can say,
“Are you a bad boy? Because I don’t mind. What kind of a name is Spike?”
Kristin: Oh my god! [sultry] “I was so bored in that line. I hate—”
Jenny: What?!
Kristin: “Waiting.” What is happening?!
Jenny: Have you ever used any of these lines [Kristin laughs] with someone you
were interested in canoodling?
Kristin: I mean, listen. If I had, I wouldn’t admit it here on a live podcast. But no.
[laughs]
Jenny: Women of our listenership. [both laugh] Do you hate waiting?
Kristin: And then it’s like—then it’s—[laughs] then it’s like—
Jenny: We wanna hear your story! [laughs]
Kristin: And like, listen, no one here is—no one here is opposed to, like—to talking
dirty during sexual encounters. But this lady was with her friends at the mall, [both


laughing] and this random guy just walked up to her, they went into this alley. She
jumped right there. It wasn’t even a minute.
Jenny: What if—[laughs]
Kristin: They didn’t even kiss—hadn’t even kissed yet. Nothing had happened.
[laughs]
Jenny: What if—what if this woman has a rare speech affect where everything she
says [Kristin laughs] is said in that voice? She’s like, [sultry] “Hello and welcome to
Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast—”
Kristin: [simultaneously] Oh my god, she goes to the grocery store and she’s like,
[sultry] “Can you tell me where the milk is?” [both laugh] Oh, god. It’s just so—and
like, as if it was not over the top enough, then Evil Buffy—we learn later—rolls up
and is like, [sultry] “You know you want it. You know I want you to.” And I’m like—
Jenny: Eeeeeeeeeeeek!
Kristin: [simultaneously] What are we watching? To those of you who were 13
years old watching with your parents, [laughing] I am so sorry that you had to
experience this.
Jenny: Oh, god.
Kristin: To me, this is worse than them fucking the house down. This is worse.
[laughs] This is more uncomfortable for me.
Jenny: It’s not good. It’s not good!
Kristin: Oh my god, and then—sorry. I promise that I—apparently, it’s working for
us. Because even though we say we hate it, we’re talking about it for so long. But
like…[both laugh] he bites her and then Evil Buffy is like, [sultry] “There’s my guy.”
Jenny: Waaaahhhhhhh!
Kristin: [simultaneously] It’s like this little mini porno at the heart of this episode.
Just this teenie little porn. Ugh.
Jenny: I…I can’t even put my stamp on it.


Kristin: I can’t. The girl delivering these fucking lines, man. Oh, god, I’d love to
talk to her. If anybody knows how to reach her, please. I wanna—I just wanna—I
wanna hear from her.
Jenny: Are you that girl that hates waiting? [both laugh] On that line?
Kristin: Oh my god—
Jenny: Call us!
Kristin: 1-800…I-hate-waiting. [both laugh and sigh] Anyway, then Buffy is like,
[sings] “doesn’t matter if you’re Buffy or Spike.”
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: [sings tune] Right?
Jenny: Wow, yes. Correct. [both laugh] Correct. Uh, invisible Buffy, poof. Invisible
Spike, here. “How could you use a poor maiden so?” Invisible Spike asks.
Kristin: [simultaneously] This—whatever this evil motherfucker is, is so dramatic.
Jenny: [laughing] Yeah.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Like, the most dramatic evil motherfucker. Just like, doing
all these unnecessary things. No one is watching you except for the audience at
home. Nobody—nobody’s there. You’re just doing—[both laugh] you’re just
switching back and forth, having a grand old fucking time.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Oh. Sorry, did we say that Spike bites this woman—
Kristin: Yeah. [laughs]
Jenny: [simultaneously] And then kind of comes out of it and then runs away,
horrified? Leaving this woman here in this alley. Although from events later in the
episode, it seems like maybe she wasn’t left here in this al—does he go back? Does
he circle back? What’s happening?
Kristin: [simultaneously] Right, he’s, like—because he’s siring all of them, it would
seem.
Jenny: Yeah.


Kristin: So, yeah, it’s a whole—it’s—listen. We’re not here…I guess we are here to
nitpick. But it’s like—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: It’s fine. It’s just—it doesn’t—there’s a lot about this that doesn’t make a
ton of sense. [Jenny laughs] Starting with the dirt floor in the basement. That’s
when everything went off the rails, really. Anyway. We go to Spike’s—[laughs] this
is another great cut. Another great—just like, Spike flying off the bed. Buffy has
walked into his room and shoved him entirely across it. [laughs] It’s funny.
Jenny: [enthusiastically] Sound the alarms. Spike was sleeping in a pair of leather
pants.
Kristin: Oh my god.
Jenny: Shirtless, and leather pants—
Kristin: Oh n—
Jenny: Spike’s other pajama outfit.
Kristin: [laughs] Oh, I didn’t notice that but that’s great. That’s great.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, well, yeah.
Kristin: Buffy’s like, “Did you kill her?” He’s like, “What the fuck are you talking
about?” The topic of the chip comes up, which leads him to be like, “You think that
this is the fucking chip? Like, I am trying to tell you, I am tortured every minute of
every day by all of the people that I killed. What in god’s name would make you
think that I’m killing people?” Again, great performance by James Masters, ‘cause I
believe him.
Jenny: He’s doing great. I totally believe him.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: You’d think Buffy never knew a vampire with a soul before! [Kristin laughs]
And how tortured they are! [laughs]


Kristin: She should write a book after this is all over. [Jenny laughs] Loving
Vampires with Souls by Buffy Summers. [both laugh and sigh]
Jenny: No, she would do a pun title. She would be like…[Kristin laughs] Soul
Partner. Or like, Soul…
Kristin: [simultaneously] Soul Mate? [laughing] Soul Partner.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Jennifer. [both laugh]
Jenny: Sorry, my head started at “soul lover” and I was like, that’s not quite right.
[both laugh] Yeah, Soul…Mate!
Kristin: Oh my god, Soul Mate—it would be Soul Mate—it would be, like, a punny
title, Soul Mate: Loving the Vampire You Shouldn’t Love, or whatever. And then—
Jenny: Ooh, yes.
Kristin: There’d be, like, you know, a whole bunch of stuff on Angel and a whole
bunch of stuff on Spike. And then there’d be, like, a teenie chapter at the back
where it was like, Sole Mate but it was spelled S-O-L-E and it was just a little Riley
blurb. ‘Cause he took off her boot. [both laugh]
Jenny: Wow. Thank you.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Thank you for including my boy. [both laugh]
Kristin: So. Spike is feeling—and I also think that this is really well done, because
it’s like, Spike is feeling…he’s starting to realize, as Buffy’s asking him questions,
that he actually doesn’t have the answers. And the fact that he doesn’t have the
answers—
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Is making him start to panic. The first sign of this panic is like, “So you’re
jealous. Like, that’s what’s happening.” ‘Cause he’s just, like, trying to—I think he’s
trying to, like, sort through what the fuck is actually happening and, like, not let on
to Buffy. This is a classic Spike distraction technique. It works pretty well for a


minute. But then he gets very real, very fast. He puts on that William hat. [Jenny
groans] And he’s just like, “Listen. I—like, if you think—like, as absolutely daft,” he
says—
Jenny: Daft.
Kristin: “As me with a soul killing people is, it’s even more daft to think that I
would ever be able to think of any other girl.”
Jenny: Ahhhhh!
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: It’s very nice!
Kristin: It really is. Because—I mean, there’s a lot of complicated things about this
dynamic, of course. But I don’t think it’s super often when you see a character
who’s really in love with another character be honest about that. And then there be
room for conversation about that. Like, Buffy has been really clear about the fact
that she is not in love with Spike, that she doesn’t love Spike, and Spike knows
that. But they’re still able to sort of occupy this space where she’s not being an
asshole to him and he’s not being an asshole to her. And it’s just the reality, and it’s
hard for both of them. It’s nice.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: I mean, it’s not nice for either of them, but it’s nice to see. [both laugh]
Jenny: It’s nice for us.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: He tells Buffy, “You know, the chip, they did to me. I couldn’t help it, but
the soul, I got on my own for you.” And she is like, “Yeah. I know.”
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And then she tells him about Holden, Holden Webster. [Kristin laughs] And
that he was sired—that he told Buffy that he was sired by Spike, right? And then
she’s like, “By the way, you didn’t look lonely or casual last night. You looked like
you were on the prowl!” Right. And that’s when he sort of starts to say, like, you


know, that he doesn’t remember and every night bleeds together and he’s, like,
kinda confused.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: But he does say, like, the taste of human blood, now that, I would
remember.
Kristin: Mmhmm. And then he’s like, “You don’t have any proof that I’ve done
this.” And she’s like, “Well, then I’m gonna get some.” And we get this, like, beat of
him just standing in the room, looking like, oh fuck. Like, something bad is
happening and I didn’t realize it till right this moment. So he’s on, like, you know,
emergency clean-up. Like, I need to figure out what the fuck I’ve done, before they
find out what the fuck I’ve done.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Mmhmm.
Kristin: Not necessarily to hide it, but just like, you don’t wanna not know what
you’ve done and then everyone else finds out first. ‘Cause they—maybe they’ll kill
you then.
Jenny: Yeah, it’s bad.
Kristin: In the Summers’ dining room, rest in peace to the dining room table that
has been replaced by two square tables [both laugh] because everything is just
destroyed. And this is another Dawn, like, “But what we were told wasn’t true,
right? So like, maybe Spike—maybe the Spike thing isn’t true too, because it’s not
true. It’s definitely not true. Everything we heard, it’s not true, right?”
Jenny: And Willow makes the great point that just because something evil said it
doesn’t mean it was a lie!
Kristin: [laughs] Anya backing that shit up. [Jenny laughs] “When I was evil, I told
the truth a lot.” [laughs]
Jenny: All the time! They do a little web search and they discover that there are
ten missing persons in Sunnydale, mostly female and young. And then Dawn is like,
“So it’s true. What the vampire told Buffy turned out to be true.” And then on her
face—
Kristin: Mmhmm.


Jenny: It’s like, so what my mom told me is also true. [sings]
Smooth…Dawn-perator!
Kristin: I just don’t—
Jenny: I really thought you would get more joy [Kristin laughs] out of my “Smooth
Dawn-perator” bit.
Kristin: Listen. Sometimes things are a little, like, wor—you know, it’s like a little
worm. It’s just crawling in right now.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And you’ll think, like, oh, that didn’t really have an impact on Kristin. And
then I’ll be singing it for, like, the next five episodes. So just…
Jenny: Great. Okay, great. I love when Dawn is doing something inside of her
head, but it is very plain on her face and we’re all like, Dawn. [laughs]
Kristin: Any time. Any time Dawn is doing anything in her head, it is very plain on
her face. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah. It’s good.
Kristin: Yeah. Oh, Dawn.
Jenny: Uh-oh. Spike’s starting to remember what happened and it’s worse than he
thought! Justine Junior?! [both laugh]
Kristin: Oh no, he’s remembering, he’s remembering, he’s remembering. He goes
to the door, Xander’s like, “No, no, no, bud. You’re not going out. Buffy was very
clear about the you not going out.” And then Spike is like, “Mm, actually, I am” and
punches Xander, blam, in the nose, knocks him unconscious and leaves. The
guitar—sweet guitar sounds of Aimee Mann are playing over the end of this scene.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Ah. Here they come.
Kristin: And as we go to The Bronze. Now, tell me you’re a lesbian in the year
2002 without telling me you’re a lesbian. How do you do that? How would you do
that?
Jenny: Hmm. Well. [both laugh] I’m not sure, do you have any suggestions?


Kristin: Well, I would personally take, like, sort of a lightly-clown themed coat that
was oversized. [Jenny laughing] And I would put it on and I would put a—listen—
Jenny: [simultaneously] [laughing] Clown themed?
Kristin: Aimee Mann, first of all, is not a lesbian. And second of all, bless her soul.
But this is a fucking look that will be burned into my mind forever. And it’s like—
Jenny: That is an aggressive blazer print.
Kristin: Very aggressive. I think that it affects me so much because it’s like—if you
took outfits that I wore in the early 2000s and just, like, cranked up the volume.
Like, they would wind up like this. So it’s like, my own shame of things that I wore.
[both laugh] Just amplified, with this outfit.
Jenny: Look, we all had a lot of blazers in 2002. Okay?
Kristin: Dress shoes with jeans? Dress shoes with jeans. [Jenny laughs] I did it.
Some of you listening did it. We did it, okay? We can’t take it back now.
Jenny: We all did it. In 2002, I was like, Aimee Mann is the coolest-looking person.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Of all time. There just wasn’t a lot available in 2002, clothing wise. [both
laugh] There were very few options in, you know, a lot of different lanes.
Kristin: So I mean, this is a huge deal. Like, we had Angie Hart at The Bronze last
week. Like, Angie Hart at The Bronze. The Breeders at The Bronze.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Aimee Man at The Bronze. This is, like, getting—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Peach Pit level with the performers here.
Jenny: Yeah, and they still can’t—for some reason, the promoter at The Bronze
can’t fill the fucking room, still! [Kristin laughs] Even with Aimee Mann!


Kristin: Well, I mean, we talked about the population issues of Sunnydale last
week, so.
Jenny: Well, they’re not in the show ‘cause they’re all in the street!
Kristin: [laughing] That’s true.
Jenny: They’re all waiting in a line outside, hoping that a hot Billy Idol type will
come up—
Kristin: Oh god.
Jenny: And chat them up.
Kristin: So Aimee Mann is singing and Detective Spike is doing the rounds.
Jenny: Yeah, he’s like, “Hello. Have you seen Justine—[laughing] Justine Junior?
We were together—”
Kristin: [simultaneously] I mean, what’s really ridiculous—I love your Justine
Junior joke and I appreciate it every time it surfaces. But what’s really ridiculous is
he’s like, “Have you seen a blond woman?” Like, [both laugh] he has, like,
no—there’s—the bartender is just, like, drying a glass, looking at him—
Jenny: [laughing] Yeah.
Kristin: Like, dude, literally, everyone in here is a blond woman. I don’t know what
to tell you. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah. [laughs]
Kristin: So there’s a brief—Buffy and Xander on the phone, where Xander is like,
“He knocked me out.” And Buffy’s like, oh fuck. We go back to The Bronze.
Spike—Spike, who we learn, takes two steps at a time, of course he does. That
makes sense.
Jenny: Nice.
Kristin: That’s a good character choice.
Jenny: Yeah.


Kristin: He goes up to the bal—nothing good ever—why do people go up there?
Has anything good ever happened on that fucking—
Jenny: [simultaneously] No, stay away from the balcony, I say.
Kristin: No. Don’t fucking go up there. Take it—the people at The Bronze should
take the balcony down. They don’t need it. If they took the balcony down, then the
dance floor would be more crowded, which is what you want at a show like this. You
know?
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Get rid of the balcony. So. Charlotte—
Jenny: Charlotte!
Kristin: Charlotte, played by Robinne Lee, who—I looked up what else Robinne Lee
was in. And she’s been in several things, but the one that really jumped out at me,
especially given this scene, is that she is in both—how many Fifty Shades movies
are there? Two? Three?
Jenny: There’s…three.
Kristin: Okay, well, I know she’s in at least two. I don’t—[Jenny gasps] I’ve never
read Fifty Shades—
Jenny: Which—?
Kristin: [simultaneously] Nor have I watched it. She plays somebody named Ros,
with an S. R-O-S.
Jenny: [gasps dramatically] Robinne Lee and I have a shared credit.
Kristin: Oh! My—
Jenny: [simultaneously] Robinne Lee was in the third installment of the Fifty
Shades trilogy, Fifty Shades Freed. And I co-wrote a song [Kristin laughs] that
appeared in the movie! We both appeared in the movie, in our own ways. [laughs]
Kristin: Wow! That’s fun. I’m so glad that I jotted down that she was in the Fifty
Shades movies. [laughs]


Jenny: In. Credible! [both laugh] I wish I could remember her, but as soon as I
finished watching that movie, every detail of it [Kristin laughs] slid from my mind.
Kristin: Well. She’s got a very similar affect to her voice as the lady from the alley,
in this scene, where she’s like, [Jenny laughs] [sultry] “Hi.” Just, why? Why are we
doing this, everyone? What is happening? And she says—[both laugh]
Jenny: I mean, I think it might be Spike. [both laugh]
Kristin: She’s like—
Jenny: Every woman who gets near Spike is just like, [sultry] “Helloooo.” [both
laugh]
Kristin: She says, [sultry] “Should I slip into something more comfortable?” and
then goes into vamp face, to which I have to ask, is it? More comfortable?
Jenny: Probably, for a vampire.
Kristin: You think? You think that, like, when they’re out of vamp face, it’s like, a
strain? Like, is their natural state vamp face? And they’re, like, fighting against
vamp face on a low level when they don’t have it?
Jenny: Maybe not fighting. But—
Kristin: But like—but then when they fell asleep, wouldn’t they go into vamp face?
Because if that’s the…
Jenny: [sighs] Listen. I don’t know.
Kristin: Okay.
Jenny: I simply don’t know.
Kristin: Somebody out there is gonna…know. Or think they know or tell us that
they have an idea.
Jenny: Yep.
Kristin: And I will love it.
Jenny: Yep. Yes. She’s like, “You didn’t seem so shy when you were biting me!”


Kristin: Ba-ba-bum! [both laugh]
Jenny: What! And then, thinking he’s just afraid of commitment, she’s like, “I’m
not asking you if you wanna be soulmates. I just wanna, like, have a good…time.”
Kristin: She’s like, soulmates, have you heard of the book by Buffy Summers?
[both laugh]
Jenny: They start fighting. And, um…two things about this. [laughs]
Kristin: Oh, god. Yeah.
Jenny: So one thing—one thing is that Charlotte says, [Kristin laughs] “So that’s all
I was to you, a one-bite stand?” [laughs]
Kristin: It’s, like—literally, I feel like if the director could have put in somebody at
the drumset downstairs—
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah.
Kristin: Aimee Mann’s drummer? Being like “da-dun-dun-ch,” he would have. Like,
he would—the way the joke is framed is hilarious.
Jenny: But there’s no time, because the drummer is busy playing the song.
Everyone’s busy playing the song. You know, classic bar fight music: Aimee Mann.
[both laugh] This is exactly the kind of music you want soundtracking your violence.
Kristin: Ohh, lord.
Jenny: They’re doing a lot with, like, big zooms and swoops and pans—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Trying to, like, blend the fight for survival—
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: With the song Pavlov’s Bell by Aimee Mann. [Kristin laughs] They do a great
job. However, I would posit that it would have been a lot sicker if Limp Bizkit was
playing.


Kristin: Ooh! Do you think they tried for Limp Bizkit first? [laughs]
Jenny: No. I do not think so. I think—I th…[laughs] I think there was probably not
an appreciation for the poet’s soul of William Frederick Durst—
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: In the upper management of Buffy the Vampire Slayer.
Kristin: [laughs] One thing that I wanna note before you get to your sec—oh,
maybe that was your second thing. I thought your second thing was gonna be how
they stopped playing entirely when she, like, falls to dust at the bottom of the floor?
[both laugh]
Jenny: Oh. Go for it.
Kristin: But before we get there, I just do wanna point out that Charlotte
says—she looks at a couple down below and says, “I take him, you take her? Or the
other way around?” First of all: bisexual. Spike. Thank you. [Jenny makes snare
drum noise] And second of all, “I take him, you take her” is also something that
Drusilla said to Spike about a couple in an episode a long, long time ago, which I
should have written down which it was, but I didn’t. But it is a direct, like, line for
line…
Jenny: I have a feeling this is just something vampire couples say to each other all
the time.
Kristin: Vampires love foursomes. It’s their favorite.
Jenny: Yeah. Especially Charlotte, she’s completely on board.
Kristin: [sultry] “Let me just slip into something more…comfortable.” [both laugh]
So—yeah, so anyway, Spike stakes Charlotte. And [laughs] I laugh a lot in the
silence that is Aimee Mann pausing to be like, “the fuck?” [both laugh] Later, Aimee
Mann will be the only musician on the show to—
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: Ever speak a line. What does she say, Jenny?


Jenny: “Man, I hate playing vampire towns.” [Kristin laughs] Who wrote this
episode? David Fury and Jane Espenson. I feel like these are not Jane Espenson
quips, so I’m gonna—I’m gonna attribute these to David Fury.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: To say that, a-ha. [both laughing] I think I see the shape of what David
Fury likes in life.
Kristin: Yeah, yeah. [laughs]
Jenny: One-bite stand.
Kristin: One-bite stand. It’s like, that’s a joke that could really be—like, it could be
really stup—it is really stupid. But it could, like, actually land stupid. But the way
they do it, it’s like, when you know you’re doing a stupid joke and you highlight the
fact that it’s stupid, it becomes funny. You know? [Jenny laughs] It’s sort of like
how I hated Hawkeye for so long ‘cause I thought he was so boring, and then the
television show Hawkeye was like, hey, here’s Hawkeye. And guess what? He wants
to be boring and he doesn’t give a fuck what you think. And I was like, oh fuck, I
love Hawkeye. You know, you just gotta, like, name it. You gotta own it. [laughs]
Jenny: Wow. You—the first, like, three times you said “Hawkeye,” I thought you
were saying “hot guy” and I was like…
Kristin: [laughing] Which?
Jenny: Who is Hot Guy? [laughs]
Kristin: Which hot guy? [both laugh] No, Hawk-eye.
Jenny: Indeed.
Kristin: Back to the mall. I keep calling it the mall ‘cause it is a mall, but there’s a
nightclub in the mall. Which feels very California to me, to be quite honest.
Jenny: Yeah. It’s just like, I think they’ve shot a fair amount of outdoor mall stuff
at the Promenade in [uncertainly] Santa Monica?
Kristin: Yeah. And this—
Jenny: Which is fair to call an outdoor mall. I think.


Kristin: Yeah. And this didn’t—I mean, I did not do a deep dig here at all. But it did
say Santa Monica. So, maybe? I don’t know where we are. I think this is just a set
mall, because I spied with my little eye the bulletin board from UC Sunnydale that
sort of—
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: Was the backdrop to Faith and Buffy fighting, remember that?
Jenny: Oh, yeah. I noticed that too and was like, oh wait, are we supposed to be
close to the UCSD campus?
Kristin: [laughing] I think they were just like—
Jenny: [simultaneously] Is it a-butt this mall? [laughs]
Kristin: [laughing] I think they were just like, what could be at a mall?
Jenny: Recycling.
Kristin: Yeah. So Buffy describes—the bouncer—there’s a bouncer at the thing
who’s like, “Hey, sweetheart” to Buffy who’s wearing a giant-sized turtleneck. Which
just makes me die, because…[both laugh] oh my god, also, I forgot to point out
before, because I was so focused on the way that the girl in the alley gave us a
little porno. But like, everyone else at this mall was in coats and sweaters. And this
girl was wearing a, like, crop—she was barely wearing a shirt. So I just wanna note
that, what temperature is it? Is it cold? Or is it warm? What’s going on?
Jenny: Well, it’s fedora weather, it’s blazer weather, it’s crop top weather. [Kristin
laughs] It’s enormous turtleneck weather.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: I love this bouncer?
Kristin: Me too.
Jenny: I love that—I love that he starts with, “You can go in, sweetheart.” And I
love that as soon as she’s like, “sallow but in a hot way,” he’s like, “Oh, I know who
you mean.” [both laugh]


Kristin: Yeah. “Sallow but in a hot way” is a fantastic line. [laughs]
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: Yes, we get this very fun Billy Idol moment here, where he’s like, “Billy
Idol-looking guy?” and she’s like, “Actually, Billy Idol stole his—never mind.” [Jenny
laughs] It reminded me of—Jenny, you and I have a shared friend, our friend
Allison, who looked like Shane from The L Word before The L Word was ever on
television. You know?
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: She just moved through space—had, like, full—like, the Shane haircut, the
Shane energy, the Shane clothing choices. Like, very Shane. And I felt so bad for
Allison after—still—The L Word. Because, like, if we would go out to a bar or
whatever, people would be like, “oh, yeah, the one that looks just like Shane.” And
it sucked, because—
Jenny: Ugh.
Kristin: It’s like, her look was then ingested by—
Jenny: Stolen!
Kristin: Was, like, ingested by other people as that she was trying to look like
Shane. Which is, like, really not—
Jenny: [simultaneously] Yeah. But she was just trying to look like Allison.
Kristin: The vibe you wanna get out—yeah. So, Spike had to carry that weight with
Billy Idol, I suppose. Anyway, this bouncer is like, “Every night, he leaves with a
different girl. You probably don’t wanna—like, just let this guy go.” I love this
bouncer. I wish Buffy would date the bouncer.
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: Right? He’s super hot.
Jenny: [simultaneously] He’s a nice boy!


Kristin: He’s a really nice guy, he’s like, “don’t fuck around with this guy,” he’s like,
“he’s not gonna treat you right.” And the only thing he doesn’t say is, “But I will.”
[both laugh] But I feel it in my heart, you know?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: “Man! I hate playing vampire towns,” Aimee Mann says to her band.
Jenny: There’s one reason that it could never work between Buffy and the bouncer.
Kristin: Why?
Jenny: And that’s that she has a type. She’s looking for a soul mate.
Kristin: [laughs] Okay. I’m picking up the shepherd’s crook. [Jenny laughs] I was
really trying to be patient with you, I gave you a lot of leeway.
Jenny: I was trying to help!
Kristin: [laughs] So Spike is on—is he on a payphone? I actually didn’t even, like,
note it. But like, he’s on a payphone, right? He’s at, like, a Bronze payphone?
Jenny: Yeah?
Kristin: I think he is. He’s like—he’s probably called Buffy collect. [laughs] “Will you
accept—”
Jenny: I was wondering what it would cost to call a cellphone in 2002 from a
payphone.
Kristin: Wait, why would it cost more to call a cellphone?
Jenny: I don’t know.
Kristin: [laughing] I don’t think it would, Jenny, but that’s—
Jenny: I guess—’cause if it was the same area code. ‘Cause back in 2002, it still
mattered what the area code was.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Right, what area code—okay. No, good call, good call.
Buffy Summers, will you accept a collect call from Spike? [both laugh] So he’s like,
“It’s me. I think I’m remembering. Meet me at 634 Hoffman Terrace.” And then


Spike—other Spike, Evil Spike is there, with not-evil Spike. And he’s like, “You’re
going against the plan. But we can make it work.” [Jenny laughs] Again, drama. You
didn’t even need to be there, man. You didn’t even need to say that. Just go to the
house—if you’re gonna be up to some tom foolery—
Jenny: [simultaneously] Yeah. That was for us.
Kristin: Go the house! [laughs] So, 634 Hoffman Avenue, where we learn Spike
has killed the woman who lived there.
Jenny: Uh-oh!
Kristin: And also has brought all of—well, a lot of his bodies. I don’t understand
what kind of cycle we’re on here [Jenny groans] ‘cause, like, Charlotte was already
out. And up and about, and so was fucking—
Jenny: Yeah. Holden.
Kristin: Holden.
Jenny: Holden Webster. [Kristin laughs] Yeah, I don’t know. Maybe there’s a thing
with dirt floor basements, where if you pack them all in at the same time—
Kristin: It’s like hatching eggs?
Jenny: Yeah. [Kristin laughs] No. This—yeah, I don’t know.
Kristin: So. Spike is like, “It’s down here, come down here,” and he—like,
acknowledging, like, I’ve taken you to a random house and I’m asking you to come
down to the basement. And you think I’m killing people, so I get it that you don’t
wanna come down here.
Jenny: And then the fact that she ultimately does come down—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Is really something.
Kristin: The thing that gets me the most to this end, of like, she does come down.
But it’s later, when he cuts her with the glass, that I think is the most powerful
moment in this episode between the two of them. Because…he has the glass in his
hand. And she does not—like, she does not move to defend herself. There is,


like—you can tell that there is probably one half of one cell in her body that thinks
he might hurt her. She, like, fully—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Just stands there. And the look on her face when he does that is just like,
what? [Jenny sighs] Which is powerful.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: So before we get there, let’s learn why Spike picks up the glass. He says to
Buffy, “I think I killed them all. I killed the lady who lived here.” She’s like, “Why?”
Again, like, written really well, right? Like, she’s not like, “Well, fuck you then!
You’re a killer, I knew it!”
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: She’s like, okay but like, you’re clearly upset and you’re clearly telling me
this. So like, something’s going on. Why did you do it? And he’s like, “I don’t know
why.” And then Evil Spike is like, “Let me sing you a little song.”
Jenny: [takes deep breath] [sings] “Early one morning!”
Kristin: Cover your ears at home! [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah.
Kristin: Don’t listen! [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: This little diddy, I looked up, is an old English folk song.
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: With lyrics first found in publications as far back as 1787.
Kristin: Oh, that’s an interesting fact since Spike is also old and English.
Jenny: Yes!


Kristin: Hmm.
Jenny: Exactly.
Kristin: Put it in your Shanshu prophecies.
Jenny: Yes, please do.
Kristin: Here’s the biggest question I have. Now I know, this evil, this from
beneath—FB…
Jenny: [gasps] Yes?
Kristin: Okay, I caught myself.
Jenny: It’s a big evil.
Kristin: It’s a big evil, it’s very powerful, we don’t know exactly what the fuck it is
or whatever. But like, it’s powerful enough to somehow tell vampires that have been
sired that when they arise, they’re going to restrain Buffy for Spike? That seems
like an insane amount of power. That’s like…these vampires don’t even try to bite
her. They just get up and they hold her so that Spike can get her.
Jenny: [sighs] Yeah, it’s interesting. I wonder if each of those vampires is seeing
someone that they know from their life, [Kristin laughs] being like, “Do this thing.
Hold this girl.”
Kristin: Oh my god, this evil FBYID guy is so busy.
Jenny: Uh-huh, uh-huh.
Kristin: So this is when he picks up the glass. He cuts her. He goes to—you know,
and Evil Spike is like—I don’t even know what he’s saying. “Bite her, you wanna
taste her,” who knows what the fuck he’s saying. Evil things in the background.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Eugh!
Kristin: And Buffy says, “You don’t wanna do this.” And then Spike licks her arm,
which…truly could only maybe be done by James Marsters in a way that, like,
[Jenny laughs] is not—like, it works. Somehow. He, like, licks her arm—


Jenny: [simultaneously] Somehow.
Kristin: And it works.
Jenny: Against all odds.
Kristin: Truly. Like, give him an award for that shit. But in this moment, he just
starts remembering everything, in like, rapid succession.
Jenny: [exhales] Yeah.
Kristin: And it’s really hard. But it does make him stop what he’s doing. And
in—and again, Buffy, like—this episode, I just wanna, like, put it in a little box. And
say that I think, you know, we’re collecting episodes where we see the Slayer that
Buffy truly is. I think this is one of them. Because of what I said earlier, but just,
like, there’s so many things happening in these moments. And she still is like, I
don’t know what the fuck is going on with Spike, but I—but he took a step away, so
I need to use that step away to grab this guy and start staking everyone around me
in this entire basement. It’s really brilliant. It’s like—it’s good.
Jenny: Yeah, especially in such close quarters with such a long weapon. Really—
Kristin: [simultaneously] Yeah. She does that one-two-three with the three
vampires in a row—
Jenny: Yep.
Kristin: And then behind her, to the guy in the back?
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: Very good. [sighs] Then—[laughs] then a slight moment of comedy, where
another lady—[laughing] her hand comes out—
Jenny: I think that’s the lady who owned the house.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Who owned the house?
Jenny: Yeah, she’s the grown-up.
Kristin: [laughing] And Buffy goes, “Sorry, ma’am, it’s my job.” And then stakes
her. [both laugh] But meanwhile, Evil Spike is gaslighting real Spike. And he’s like,


“You failed them. Now she’s gonna kill you.” Because that’s what this evil thing
thinks—like, that was his plan, right? Like, Buffy will just kill Spike, and that’ll be
fun and part of my fun, dramatic plan to do whatever he plans to do. But she
doesn’t, does she, Jenny?
Jenny: She sure doesn’t. Not even when he pulls open his jacket and says, “Do it
fast.”
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Then he says, “He said you would do it.”
Kristin: Ugh.
Jenny: And Buffy’s like, “Who said?” And he is so confused. He’s like, “Me. Me.”
Kristin: [simultaneously] He’s like, “Me?” [laughs] Ugh. [Jenny sighs] Again, really
powerful shit here from both Sarah and James.
Jenny: Yeah. And it’s important, you know, to note that, like, he’s continuing. He’s
like, “I was here the whole time, talking and singing. There was a song.” And Buffy’s
like, what are you talking about? And he says, “I don’t know. Don’t make me
remember.” And then he turns away from her—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: And says to an unseen force, to Buffy, “Make it so I forget again. I did what
you wanted.”
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And Buffy is finally like, ah. There’s something here.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And then, oh no. She drops the stake and Spike says, “No, please, I need
that.”
Kristin: Ohh, noo! It’s so awful!
Jenny: I know.


Kristin: And then she’s like, there’s—
Jenny: [simultaneously] This poor man.
Kristin: I know. And she’s really, like, taking care of him in this moment. And she’s
like, “There’s something playing with all of us.” And he says, “Help me. Can you
help me?” [high-pitched] And she says, “I’ll help you.”
Jenny: [laughs] And Invisible Spike is like, “Ugh!” [both laugh] “Guh-ross!”
Kristin: It’s nice. It’s really nice. I mean, it’s like, fraught and traumatic and sad
and complicated and scary. But it’s nice. So we get this sort of, like, you know,
gather the crew—
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Recap what’s happened and where we’re at in the dining room. Anya’s like,
“Do you believe him?” Xander’s like, “Okay, cool, [laughing] so he’s not only a serial
killer but he’s that great out-of-control, doesn’t-know-what-he’s-doing serial killer.”
Jenny: Ideal!
Kristin: Right. And Buffy explains, like, he’s not only here so that we can help him.
He’s also here because it seems like whatever this thing is has gotten closest to
him.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And so her plan is to get close to Spike in order to try to get closer to this
evil.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: Which, like, you know. I mean, as much as it sounds treacherous, it does
seem like a good plan.
Jenny: Yeah, I mean, given the options available to them—[both laugh]
Kristin: Right. Right.
Jenny: It’s like, okay. Then, back in grainy, grainy London town. Who—


Kristin: [laughs] Well, London is known for its grainy weather, you know? [laughs]
Jenny: Yes. Yes, yes, yes. It’s always graining in London. [Kristin laughs] Giles rolls
right into Robson’s flat!
Kristin: He’s got a key.
Jenny: And he’s like, “Robson!” He sees the fallen Nora. He runs over to Robson.
And Robson, close to death, gasps, “Gather them. It’s started.”
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And then what happens?
Kristin: Oh my god, and then Ghosty is like—skrrrrrrrck!—and comes up behind
Giles and picks up his bladed knife and goes to slash Giles’ whole head off! Cut to
black. How rude.
Jenny: Yeah. This is like—Giles is like, got it. I understand. I’ll do the thing. And
the ax that the robed guy is swinging is just inches from his head. This is a rude
way to end an episode.
Kristin: Very, very rude. Stephanie Tanner said it best.
Jenny: [laughs] Mmhmm.
Kristin: And that—that’s the episode. So I mean, what’s good is that it seems like
between Conversations with Dead People and Sleeper, we are really finding out that
there might be, in fact, something beneath us. [Jenny gasps] Which might…[Jenny
gasps] devour. [Jenny gasps] So I’m excited to get a little further into that plotline.
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: And find out what it might be. And, um…yeah. A pretty—pretty decent
episode. Some laughs, some drama.
Jenny: Yeah, some laughs, some gasps.
Kristin: [laughs] Speaking of laughing and gasping. [laughing] Do you wanna go to
the Sexual Tension Awards?
Jenny: Uhh. I guess? Let’s do it!


[SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays]
Sexual tension award!
Jenny: Oh, welcome back to another installation of the Sexual Tension Awards!
[sings triumphant tune] We all know that fanfare trumpets are the world’s sexiest
instrument, so that’s why I’ve chosen to deploy them today.
Kristin: Jenny, somebody tweeted at us—they shared a tweet of somebody else
with us—that said, “Why call it sexual tension when you could call it bang-xiety?”
Jenny: Wow! Welcome back to the first installation of the Bang-xiety Awards!
[Kristin laughs] Wow! Okay.
Kristin: Yeah, it’s pretty good, right?
Jenny: It is pretty dang good. Incredible. Okay, so. You’re never gonna believe
this. But we’ve got four slots and eight noms to stuff into them, so let me tell you
how the pairings are falling, for this edition. In slot number one, sometimes you’re
the biter and sometimes you’re the bitee, but the point is—
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: That it’s Anya and butts!
Kristin: [chanting] Anya and butts! Anya and butts! Let Anya and butts win solely
so that Emily McLongstreet makes us a photoshop of Anya and butts. [both laugh]
Jenny: Oh my word. Counterpoint: don’t make Emily McLongstreet [Kristin laughs]
have to photoshop a million butts! [both laugh] In slot number two! Technically, I
guess, this is kind of like five noms.
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: It’s Charlotte and foursomes! Because she’d love it if you and her could
take him and her.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: You know?
Kristin: In any kind of combination.


Jenny: Any which way.
Kristin: Any which way.
Jenny: [sighs] In slot number three, what happens at the Watcher’s Academy and
on Watcher retreats, [Kristin laughs] stays at the Watcher’s Academy and Watcher
retreats. It’s Giles and Robson.
Kristin: Smooch!
Jenny: Sharing a deathbed—meaningful deathbed eye contact.
Kristin: Yeah. They will never smooch a-gain.
Jenny: And in slot number four, there’s been actually a lot of fucking fanfare all
season—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: About this—this pairing has just been growing closer and closer and closer.
And now they’re like—
Kristin: It’s ready to pop.
Jenny: It’s ready to pop. Their noses are, like, one millimeter apart. [Kristin
laughs] They’re about to smooch. This is my personal favorite—Kristin told you her
favorite, I’m telling you my favorite. [takes deep breath] It’s Sunnydale and the
thing beneath it! [Kristin laughs] Which devours. They—they…
Kristin: I mean, it’s true.
Jenny: OTP!
Kristin: It is true. Like, if we are picking the thing that has the most bang-xiety, it
is…that one. But I just really want—I guess Emily could just make me a photoshop
of Anya and butts, [laughing] just for fun.
Jenny: Yeah, Emily could do that just for you. For your own enjoyment—
Kristin: [simultaneously] Just for me.


Jenny: Regardless.
Kristin: Yeah, yeah, okay, good.
Jenny: Well. If you wanna cast a vote—and you should. Please find us on Twitter,
@BufferingCast. We will have the Sexual Tension Awards slash Bang-xiety Awards
poll up for one week from the day this episode drops. So chime in!
Kristin: [sighs] See you over there.
[SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays]
Sexual tension award!
Kristin: Well, Jenny.
Jenny: [enthusiastically] Another episode closer to the end!
Kristin: [simultaneously] [singing] Another episode, another pod! [sings tune] You
know?
Jenny: I do know.
Kristin: We used to sing that song, um, on opening night of the high school
musicals that I was in. [Jenny laughs] Not to be confused with High School Musical,
but the musicals I was in in high school.
Jenny: Uh-huh. Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: I was really emotional, and like—
Jenny: Shocking.
Kristin: All the seniors would, like, cry, singing Another Open, Another—
Jenny: Seniors and you. Whatever grade you were in. [both laugh] Would always
cry.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Honestly, yes. Definitely. A hundred percent. [both laugh]
Yeah. Another episode. I did wanna say something I forgot to mention earlier. When
Anya was mucking around in Spike’s room, it just made me think that, like, all I
want, really—and I guess we got a little bit of this, with What We Do in the


Shadows. But just like, thinking about—because Anya’s, like, opening his drawers
and, like, all his little clothes are in there. And like, he’s got his little stacks of CDs.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And like, all I want is to just, like, see what Spike does in the room. Like,
what does he do? Does he do the laundry? And then does he fold his little clothes
up and put ‘em in the drawers?
Jenny: You may remember from both the last episode and also the Previously On
that this used to be a closet.
Kristin: Not a closet, kids.
Jenny: Come on!
Kristin: Not a closet. That’s a big fucking closet. [laughs]
Jenny: Ridiculous.
Kristin: Anyway. Yeah. Well, onwards and upwards we go. And we should continue
to go upwards, because we heard that from below us—[laughs]
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Something’s trying to chomp!
Jenny: Keep moving on up. Don’t get chomped.
Kristin: Don’t get chomped.
Jenny: Well, friends. I—if you can believe it—am Jenny Owen Youngs. And when
I’m not making this podcast with Kristin, I do a lot of music business. And
I—hey—just announced, very recently, some spring tour dates. I’ll be going out
with my beautiful friend and friend of the pod, Hrishikesh Hirway. We’re playing
some collaborative shows together in Philly, DC, Saugerties, Brooklyn, Boston,
Portland Maine, Seattle, Portland Oregon, San Francisco, and Los Angeles! You can
find tickets and info at jennyowenyoungs.com/events. And you can give me a shout
on socials @JennyOwenYoungs. What do you think?
Kristin: I think that you should pit the two Portlands against each other. Like, I
think that there should be some kind of a competition so that—


Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: The Portlands can compete.
Jenny: Two will enter! Only one can leave! Which Portland will reign supreme?
Kristin: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. And if there’s—
Jenny: The fate of your town resides in you!
Kristin: [laughs] Um. Believe it or not, I am Kristin Russo. And—
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: You can learn more about the work that I do with LGBTQ+ communities
over on my website, at kristinnoeline.com. That’s K-R-I-S-T-I-N N-O-E-L-I-N-E. And
you can use that spelling to find me on social media, Twitter and Instagram
specifically. ‘Cause I kinda don’t fuck with Facebook.
Jenny: Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on Twitter, Instagram and…Facebook!
[clears throat] [laughs]
Kristin: I mean. Listen. I’m not telling you not to fuck with Facebook.
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: I’m just saying, I don’t fuck with Facebook. I do fuck with Facebook, ‘cause
I run the Facebook page for Buffering.
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: [simultaneously] But I just don’t personally fuck with Facebook.
Jenny: Indeed. Well, we, the podcast, are on all those platforms @BufferingCast.
And you can drop us an email at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin: You can support the work that we do here by going on over to
Patreon.com/Bufferingcast or just go to our website. It has everything you ever
needed. Ever. In the whole world—
Jenny: [simultaneously] Ever.


Kristin: It’s all there for you, bufferingthevampireslayer.com—
Jenny: [simultaneously] Oh yeah.
Kristin: You can click on Patreon to join our growing family over there. Or you can
buy some of our merch. We’ve got sweatpants in the store now, we’ve got sticker
packs, we’ve got long-sleeve tees. It’s great. It’s a good time over in the merch
store. And head’s up, in case you’ve missed it on the other million announcements.
The Friday night of our two-night prom event is now able to be attended virtually.
You can join us. It is the 25th anniversary of Buffy the Vampire Slayer. The show.
Have you heard of it? [Jenny laughs] And we will be at Sunnydale High School, AKA
Torrance High School, where the show was filmed. Have you heard of it?! [Jenny
laughs] And you can join us there where we talk about—
Jenny: Imagine they were listening to this podcast and they had never heard of—
Kristin: [simultaneously] And they had never heard of it?
Jenny: Buffy the Vampire Slayer? [laughs]
Kristin: We’re gonna be, like, talking about all of our favorite moments from the
series. Jenny’s gonna be playing some music. She might even let me hit a little bell
or two on my glock.
Jenny: Bing!
Kristin: It’s gonna be really, really wonderful. And all of the details for attend—you
can still—at least as of this taping, you can still attend in person on that Friday
night. We still have a few tickets left. But if you wanna attend virtually, you can. All
of the information at bufferingthevampireslayer.com/prom.
Jenny: Hurray!
Kristin: Hurray!
Jenny: This episode was produced by Kristin Russo, Jenny Owen Youngs, and Alba
Daza, with support from our consultant, Mackenzie MacDade. It was edited by John
Mark Nelson. And till next time…
—
Both: Awwoooooooooo!


[Jenny performing “Sleeper” off the album “Songs from Season Seven” by
Buffering the Vampire Slayer]

