Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 5.08: Shadow
Jenny:​ Hey! Happy New Year!
Kristin:​ Oh my gosh! Happy New Year. Jenny, will you do me a favor and will you
ask me who I am?
Jenny:​ Who… are you?
Kristin:​ I am Barbara Walters and this is 2020!
Jenny:​ Wow…
Kristin:​ [laughs] That was for the seven and a half—
Jenny:​ I should… get going.
Kristin:​ I've been waiting. I've been waiting all this time to make that joke.
Jenny:​ [laughs] Wow! I'm so happy that you finally got what you have desired for
so long. Um, I've just been saying, I'm 2020 Jenny.
Kristin:​ 2020 Jenny? Yeah, that sounds nice.
Jenny:​ Yeah, that's right.
Kristin:​ It doesn't really work for "Kristin" so I had to go with a dad joke, you
know?
Jenny:​ Yeah, yeah, a bad one—sure, sure, sure, sure. [laughter]
Kristin:​ Either you get it or you don't and if you do, then you're old, and if you
don't, then congratulations.
Jenny:​ Ha!
Kristin:​ [laughs] Okay, so we have a couple of things before we head on into
Shadow. I just heard earlier today the song that Jenny is working, and you should
get excited for that at the end of the episode, 'cause it's…
Jenny:​ Yeah!


Kristin:​ It's a dancin' hit, I think.
Jenny:​ Nothing but the highest quality, you know—I deal in nuance and I deal in
subtlety. And metaphor. I wonder what this song will be like.
Kristin:​ I wonder. I want to let everyone know that I found out—I discovered a
couple of months ago that our Patron supporters—our supporters on Patreon—they
do a million things. And one of them is that they have a pen pal exchange. And I
flipped out when I found out and was like, "why am ​I​ not invited to the penpal
exchange?" To which I became invited. Michaela is the person who's running the
penpal exchange over there, and so I'm telling you all, in case you, like me, did not
know, that the signups are open now. The next round of signups, if you want a
penpal, for our patrons, from today, January 8th until January 22nd. It's really cute,
you just fill out a form. You say if you wanna stay within the US or if you're willing
to send your letters internationally and then you—there's even, like—Jenny, there's
even a little place where you say like, "I've seen the whole series, you can spoil
me" or like, "I haven't seen it yet, you can't."
Jenny:​ [laughs] Oh no!
Kristin:​ It's really, really cute. And we'll put up the form on Patreon and on the
secret Facebook group from Michaela. And Michaela, thank you for spearheading
that. It's really, really great, and I'm doing it. I don't know if you're gonna do it,
Jenny, but I'm gonna definitely sign up for it and have a penpal in there.
Jenny:​ Wow. Speaking of incredibly important messages, have I got one for you!
It's the Sexual Tension Award results from last episode. Are you ready?
Kristin:​ [laughs] I'm ready.
Jenny:​ With a deeply disappointing 5% of the vote, in fourth place… we have the
rightful heirs to the crown, but alas, it shall not be.
Kristin:​ No. Ehh!
Jenny:​ Xander and Riley's butt.
Kristin:​ I mean, it was hilarious. Also, the fact that my notes have "Riley's butt,
5%" is a real—it's just really funny to me, to look at.
Jenny:​ [laughs] In second place—well, there's just some stiff competition, no pun
intended, in this episode. In sec—in third place. In third place...we have, with 23%


of the vote, Spike and Angel. Working our way through the chain of Spike
nominations. We have, in second place with 29% of the vote, Spike and Dru.
Kristin:​ Isn't that incredible? Spike sucked blood off of Drusilla's—I mean. Drusilla
sucked blood off of Spike's finger and still only managed to garner 29%.
Jenny:​ Shocking.
Kristin:​ Tough episode.
Jenny:​ But the people want what the people want, and here, in first place with
43% of the vote, it's Spike and Buffy. You're welcome.
Kristin:​ I mean, of course, it had to be. It's Fool for Love.
Jenny:​ Yes.
Kristin:​ We would have been absolutely scandalized had they not won this vote-off.
So congratulations, Spike, Buffy. Your trophy is in the mail. Jenny.
Jenny:​ Yo.
Kristin:​ Are you ready for the first Spooky News of 2020?
Jenny:​ This better be good. You better start the decade correctly.
[SPOOKY NEWS jingle plays]
Spooky news!
Kristin:​ Okay, Jenny. Well, Lindsay S. sent in a story that is mildly spooky and very
relevant to today's episode.
Jenny:​ Ooh!
Kristin:​ It's a story that comes from Boston's local NPR affiliate. And the title of the
story is: Baby Anacondas Born at a New England Aquarium Without Any Male
Snakes Involved.
Jenny:​ Hell… yeah! Life finds a way! [inaudible]
Kristin:​ [laughs] Yeah. So this is very unexpected. It's only happened—this is only
the second time that it's been recorded that something like this has happened. It
happens more with plants and invertebrates. Invertebrates? Invertebraes?


Jenny:​ I believe it's "brates."
Kristin:​ So like, wasps and ants, you see this thing which is called
parthenogenesis. And parthenogenesis can be done in one of two ways. One,
you—the entity, animal, thing creates itself as a clone. And in the other one—
Jenny:​ Ooh!
Kristin:​ It sort of rearranges some shit and then you don't get a full clone, but it
doesn't need anything else. So this anaconda, two of the snake babies survived, out
of like, 18 snake babies. And they are—they were tested, they are exact clones of
the mom.
Jenny:​ Whoa.
Kristin:​ So okay—so unlike most snake species, anacondas don't lay eggs. So
when they walked into this aquarium, they saw this snake literally giving birth to
little snakes. Like, it literal—it wasn't dropping eggs, it was little baby—18 baby
snakes came out of this anaconda. So I thought today, on the first day—the first
episode of 2020 here at Buffering and an episode where we get yet another snake
demon lizard monster, if you will, we could hear some Spooky News that's actually
not so spooky. Because fuck yeah, lady snake!
Jenny:​ Ha! Wow.
[SPOOKY NEWS jingle plays]
Spooky news!
Jenny:​ Well, it's officially 2020, as we've already mentioned. But that means it's
currently the year of 2020 Prom, which has not yet happened, which still waits for
us upon the golden horizon. Our live taping of I Was Made to Love You is sold out,
but there are still some Prom bids left. You can find them at
bufferingthevampireslayer.com, just click on Events and you can find all the
relevant info there. Please join us for our most formal occasion of the year.
Kristin:​ Yes, please do. So excited. We already have some costumes in the works
for this Prom. We are—
Jenny:​ We do?!
Kristin:​ Yes, we do! Well, I'll remind you after we stop taping, Jenny.


Jenny:​ Okay.
Kristin:​ [laughs] Other things I would like to remind all of you of are that we have
two Patreon events coming up. January 11, which is this weekend, we'll be
watching Scream 2 together. All of the details for that can be found on our Patreon
page and also on our Facebook page, the secret Facebook page, of course. And on
the 22nd of February, Jenny will be playing you all of your favorite Buffering songs.
Jenny, I hope that you learn this song for this episode for the next—
Jenny:​ Oh, hell yeah.
Kristin:​ Buffering concert because I think it's gonna be a real jam to hear live as
well. [laughter]
Jenny:​ Excellent.
Kristin:​ And of course, you can find out more and join our Patreon family over at
bufferingthevampireslayer.com, just click on Patreon. One other thing before we roll
over into this episode. Holy shit, Jenny. What the fuck happened a couple of days
ago? We must make sure that everyone knows.
Jenny:​ Oh! Um, okay, let's see. You're asking me a question and I need some time
to think of the answer to that question…
Kristin:​ [laughs] Oh, oh, I can give you some—
Jenny:​ Is there some music you could play that might help me think of the
answer?
Kristin:​ Yeah, yeah, yeah, let me give you some—yeah, yeah, here you go.
[Jeopardy timer music starts playing]
Jenny:​ [talking over music] Wow! Did you see that we were on frickin' Jeopardy?!
We were an answer on frickin' Jeopardy?! Ahhh-ha-ha!
Kristin:​ [talking over music] We were the $200… clue? How do you talk about it?
The $200—
Jenny:​ We were the $200 answer. Uh, right?
Kristin:​ The $200 answer, yes. [music stops] The $200 answer in the podcast
category. The answer was "completes the title of a podcast devoted to a Sarah


Michelle Gellar series, Buffering…" And our friend—just kidding, we don't know
Karen, but this—
Jenny:​ A whole other Karen.
Kristin:​ Yeah, this whole other Karen—this lady named Karen who was on
Jeopardy, was like, "bleep-bloop! The Vampire Slayer?" And Jenny and I have never
been so excited in our entire lives. I mean, I literally was like, just pacing around
my house in excitement for, like, three hours.
Jenny:​ You know, I've been… running around the house all weekend now,
humming to myself Jeopardy. The song—not the [hums a little] song but the song
by the Greg Kihn Band. That was brought into my consciousness because Weird Al
Yankovic parodied it. But basically, the chorus of the original is, [sings] "I was in
jeopardy, baby. Oooh-ooh-ooh!"
Kristin:​ 'Cause we were in jeopardy. [singing] "We were in jeopardy—"
Both: [singing] "Baby! Oooh-ooh-ooh!"
Jenny:​ Great. They're gonna love it!
Kristin:​ [laughs] Wow. So now that we've let you know that we have officially
peaked. The mountain does not go any higher than this.
Jenny:​ Yeah, it's all over. How sad.
Kristin:​ We will roll—[laughs] yeah, it's done, it's done. Thank you for listening. It's
been lovely. We're gonna roll you right over into the theme song and another
episode of our podcast, a podcast featured on the very popular, totally—we're
immortalized. That's it.
Jenny:​ I feel very powerful.
Kristin:​ Me. Too.
Jenny:​ You know, I sent my dad a Jeopardy question-a-day calendar for Christmas.
[Kristin gasps twice] And I wonder if one day, later, we'll be anthologized in a
Jeopardy question-a-day calendar.
Kristin:​ Oh my god. You should—Jenny, you should make your dad a calendar next
year that's just—


Jenny:​ Ha!
Kristin:​ Every day is—
Jenny:​ Every day is that one.
Kristin:​ Yeah, is us. [laughs]
Jenny:​ Beautiful, love it, thank you.
Kristin:​ Alright, let's get into the episode.
Jenny:​ Indeed.
[Buffering theme plays]
Jenny:​ Hello. And welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast where we
are watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, one by one,
spoiler-free. I'm Jenny Owen Youngs!
Kristin:​ And I am Kristin Russo. This week, we are back. Happy 2020. We are here
to talk to you about Buffy Season 5, Episode 8, Shadow. Stay tuned at the end of
this podcast every other week for an original song, written by Jenny. Jenny, it's
about a snake this week, isn't it?
Jenny:​ It's about a great big snake.
Kristin:​ Can't wait to hear it. Uh, recapping the Buffy episode we are discussing.
And also, if you are looking for something to do in 2020 and have not yet started
listening to our sister podcast, Angel on Top, hosted by Brittany Ashley and Laura
Zak, you should be doing that. It is fantastic and it goes in tandem with our watch,
so they are going to be back next week with Season 2, Episode 8 of Angel. Get on
it!
Jenny:​ Bing. Bong!
Kristin:​ Yes.
Jenny:​ As I always say.
Kristin:​ As you do always say. [laughs]


Jenny:​ Well, Shadow was written by David Fury and directed by Dan Attias. And
originally aired—buckle up! It originally aired on ​November 21st​, 2000. My last day
of being 18.
Kristin:​ [laughs] Buffy is, in fact, all in relation to what age you were and how far
away you were from celebrating your next birthday.
Jenny:​ It was all very carefully planned.
Kristin:​ This is the one where, according to IMDB, Glory transforms a snake into a
terrifying monster in her quest to find the Key. Just a side note, I think that's
debatable, the terrifying aspect, but we'll get into that. [laughter] And Joyce is
hospitalized after being diagnosed with an illness. This is the one where there's a
great big snake.
Jenny:​ There's a great big snake! It's got some flashing red eyes, but I guess we
can wait to get to that.
Kristin:​ This is like the era of, "we have just discovered CGI." Not just discovered
it, but just—maybe it got cheap enough to use more frequently, perhaps? But it is
just—so I just watched, Jenny—I know you know this and most of the people who
are listening know this because I had a long Twitter party about this. But I just
watched all the Star Wars.
Jenny:​ Yes!
Kristin:​ All of them, all nine. I watched them in a week. And I went from the ones
made in the 80s to the ones made in the early aughts, to the ones then made
currently. And the CGI journey that you have is, like—where they were in the
Natalie Portman years of the Star Wars trilogies is where we are now in Buffy. And
you can totally see the parallels, of just like, you wanna just put your head in the
sand and be like, why have you done this? [laughs]
Jenny:​ Woof!
Kristin:​ It was so much better when you were sculpting things from whatever you
could find in the prop room. Because this—
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ Yeah.


Jenny:​ And I think there are some really nice practical effects, like the—coming
from the side eyelids, the translucent eyelids that we see, which are a practical
effect, look really—I think they look—[laughing] considering what they're mounted
on, I think they look pretty good.
Kristin:​ Sure. Well, and that's the thing 'cause—
Jenny:​ But then, what's worse—Kristin, what's worse? A nightmarishly bad CGI
snake man, whipping through town from a bird's eye view, or a huge, thick, really
dead-looking practical snake tail that's being filmed close up, just dragging across
the floor of a church?
Kristin:​ [laughs] I actually very cleanly vote that the CGI is worse. [Jenny laughs]
That's what I was gonna say, that like—'cause we get both. There is a real snake. I
sent Jenny a really fantastic photo right before we started taping that I found. I was
looking for a GIF of Buffy riding the snake—which I will make, never you fear.
Myself, I did not find one. I found this picture of the snake man in a—goofing
around, I guess, on set with a towel wrapped around his waist, holding a roll of
toilet paper. So you know, there was a real monster snake and then the CGI. And
they're both a little rough, but I wish that we had had a goofy snake tail dragging
across the floor much more than I wanted any of that horrible CGI.
Jenny:​ Yeah… [laughter]
Kristin:​ Anyway! Let's get into the episode. Apparently, we're starting off—I mean,
hey, what better way to start a new year than by an in-depth discussion of a demon
lizard? You know what I mean?
Jenny:​ Yeah, I think we're actually overdue.
Kristin:​ We are. It's been a minute. [laughs] We should—let's do a vote-off,
actually. I think we should do a vote-off of your favorite demon lizard to date, and
we'll do the frat lizard, the mayor snake, and the cobra snake. Right? We'll see
where everybody lands.
Jenny:​ Nice. Well, yeah, they love snakes on this show, huh?
Kristin:​ They fucking love a snake. [laughs] Okay, so the Previously On sets us up
for all of the things. And it's kind of an extensive Previously On because we took a
pretty hard turn with Fool for Love, right? Like, we went down a very particular
path and they're like, "okay, okay, everybody, regroup." [laughs]
Jenny:​ Yeah.


Kristin:​ "Remember, we've got Glory—" who gets named in this episode. We finally
can call her all of her supremely magnificent names. And we get that Dawn is the
Key, we get that Joyce is sick, we get that Riley is feeling left out, we get that Spike
is in love with Buffy. So we're set up to remember, okay, let's reorient, here we go.
Jenny:​ Yeah. And unpopular opinion of mine, wow, I hate hospitals and medical
scanning machines. Why do we have to pick up here? I know why we have to pick
up here, but…
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ [sighs] This just automatically cranks my viewing stress level up.
Kristin:​ Yeah. So Joyce is sort of being put into the CAT scan machine. And it's
really—I mean, it is upsetting but it's also really beautiful, the way they shot it, I
think. Like, the light on her face and—it's very haunting. Even if you are not as
upset at hospitals as Jenny is, like, it is very haunting, the way that they set up this
opening scene. So she's going in to get a CAT scan and Dawn and Buffy are in the
waiting room. And Dawn is very adorably, like, "so what about cats—where are the
cats?" [laughs]
Jenny:​ Yeah. Yeah, yeah. "Show me the cats."
Kristin:​ "Show me those cats in CAT scan."
Jenny:​ Now if they had cats at a hospital, I'd probably like them a lot more.
Kristin:​ I mean, honestly, that CAT scan machine would be a lot better if there
were a couple of cats just hanging around, you know.
Jenny:​ Or just a couple—like, a pair of cat ears on top of the machine.
Kristin:​ Oh, cute. Yeah, that'd be cute. But Buffy—and this is a big episode for
Buffy and Dawn. It's—I mean, for a lot of reasons, but we see it start here, where
Dawn says some—this thing about the cats. And Buffy goes to get annoyed and
then has the space to realize, "my little sister is terrified and I need to be here for
her." So she holds her—
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ And then we go to the Magic Box where—I mean, very pivotal part of this
episode, Jenny, hinges on the Yellow Pages, which really—


Jenny:​ Now kids. [Kristin laughs] The Yellow Pages were, like… a corporeal Google
but only for businesses within a certain range.
Kristin:​ [laughs] Yes, your local—
Jenny:​ You could only get information about local businesses and also—
Kristin:​ And people!
Jenny:​ The home—the landlines of people around you.
Kristin:​ I mean, it was like—I don't know how kids today prank call. But it was the
main source for the fun of prank calling people, was the Yellow Pages. You would
just—
Jenny:​ Would you—sorry, would you prank call people you knew or people you
didn't know?
Kristin:​ No! People I didn't know. We would just open the phone book and find a
phone number and then call somebody.
Jenny:​ Oh my god.
Kristin:​ I don't even remember what we would say, but you know, we would laugh
and have a great time. I actually—I'm watching Six Feet Under for the first time
and I just watched an episode—'cause you know, every one starts with a death.
And I just watched an episode that starts with three girls doing exactly that.
They're prank calling, and the one laughs so hard that she falls off the bed and
snaps her neck and dies. So! Anyway!
Jenny:​ Oh my fucking god.
Kristin:​ So kids, be careful with your prank calls. [laughs]
Jenny:​ Yeah…
Kristin:​ So the Yellow Pages were the businesses and the White Pages were the
people? Or the reverse?
Jenny:​ I believe that's correct, yes.


Kristin:​ That's correct? Okay. They put a beautiful ad, just beautiful ad. I actually
disagree with Tara's assessment that the font is too small. I think you can read
everything perfectly, it's a good size—
Jenny:​ No, no. I think she was saying "Your one stop spot to shop for all your
occult needs" was hard to read.
Kristin:​ Oh, just 'cause it's a wordy—[laughing] a very wordy sentence?
Jenny:​ Yeah, 'cause it's a little bit of a tongue—it's a minor tongue twister.
Kristin:​ Did you take a look at this ad, Jenny? It's pretty wonderful in a lot of ways.
Jenny:​ Tell me all about it.
Kristin:​ Well, I mean, so you have the slogan, right? And then you have these little
starbursts of like, "this thing! And that thing!" typical of many an ad. And there's
four starbursts, and one is like, "Potions!" And one is like, "Crystals!" And then one
is like, "Death charms!" [laughter] And then the fourth one says "Lollipops for kids."
[laughing] So…
Jenny:​ What the hell?
Kristin:​ And it's right next to "death charms." It's really special.
Jenny:​ Sure, sure.
Kristin:​ And I did a little bit more investigation, because there's a phone number
on it. And shout out to our Santa Barbara folks who have been making the claim for
quite some time that this is based as Santa Barbara, that Sunnydale is Santa
Barbara. The area code is 805, which is a Santa Barbara area code, everybody.
Jenny:​ Well, well, well, well, well.
Kristin:​ Detective Kristin, on the fucking case, everyone.
Jenny:​ [laughs] Yeah. And—and—and! And, and also in this scene, we're getting so
many great things. We're getting Anya asking if she's been mentioned in the ad.
[Kristin laughs] She's very excited that there's an ad in the Yellow Pages and
expects that, of course, she would be mentioned. And then—
Kristin:​ Oh my god, is Anya—does Anya have a touch of Gaby Dunn? Is that what
I'm putting together? She's like, "love to be mentioned." [laughs]


Jenny:​ She loves being mentioned. And the Scoobies are communicating to Giles
that, when they made a plan with Riley to go weed out that vampire nest together,
Riley in fact went off by his lonesome.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ And blew up the tomb and—
Kristin:​ Tomb went boom.
Jenny:​ Tomb went boom, and you know, he's like, putting himself at risk. And
Xander's concerned.
Kristin:​ Xander is concerned. And I wanna give another shout out to Anya, because
not only does she look for herself in the ad, but then she has this moment where
she's like—you know, "This is the first time I've not wanted to slaughter in the
morning. I'm really growing." Like, she's really clocking her personal growth from
vengeance demon to human form. [Jenny laughs] And then everybody is like, "hey
guys, remember Glory? Oh yeah!" [laughs]
Jenny:​ Yeah, right, right, right. Also, a little bit of set color. I don't know if you've
noticed some of the signage around the Magic Box cash register?
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ But there's a sign that says "Shoplifters will be transfigured."
Kristin:​ Mm-hmm.
Jenny:​ And there's also a little sign that says "Magic happens."
Kristin:​ If you work in a—what does it say?
Jenny:​ "Magic happens."
Kristin:​ Oh. [laughs] I thought you said "magic cabins."
Jenny:​ I can't tell if it's supposed to be—no, no. I can't tell if it's supposed to be
like "shit happens." Or if it's supposed to be like… "magic happens and there's
nothing you can do about it, person who doesn't like magic, so shut up."
Kristin:​ [laughs] Like, they put it up after Tara's family left?


Jenny:​ Yeah, yeah, exactly. [laughter]
Kristin:​ Yeah, if you work in a shop, I really hope that you have taken it upon
yourself to put up the "shoplifters will be transfigured" sign. Because it seems like
the best thing that you could ever—give a nod to Buffy.
Jenny:​ Yeah, I mean, it's a threat that seems more terrifying than being
prosecuted. [Kristin laughs] Because at least with prosecution, you have a shot, but
with transfiguration…
Kristin:​ I mean, 'cause Amy's still a fucking rat, as far as we know. We haven't
seen her, but like… transmogrification—
Jenny:​ But one assumes.
Kristin:​ Transmogrification can be, you know, many seasons long. [laughter] Okay,
so—
Jenny:​ So they're speculating about this woman and like, man, she's probably
hanging out somewhere where bad guys usually hang out. Maybe a sewer or
something and hard cut to what I guess is supposed to be a very luxurious hotel
room. There is a round bed, and I have so many questions.
Kristin:​ Mm.
Jenny:​ Where do you get sheets for a round bed?
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ Maybe I just have the one question. And how do you make that—that
seems like—you know how it's easier to make a rectangular bed with somebody on
each side?
Kristin:​ Yeah. Well, yeah, because even if you got a custom-made fitted sheet for
your round bed, your blanket—even if your top sheet was round, tucking it in would
be a living nightmare. You'd have to kind of go all the way around, tucking a little
bit as you went, each—you know, each little—
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ I don't want a round bed, is what I've learned, just now.


Jenny:​ Yeah. No thanks, Casper. Keep your round mattress that you've been
piloting.
Kristin:​ [laughs] So yeah, Glory is living it the fuck up. I guess that we are to
believe that her salary is incredibly high for the work that she's doing.
Jenny:​ I like that you just assume she's on salary. [laughter]
Kristin:​ Yeah, she's not freelancing this shit! She's getting a weekly salary.
Jenny:​ Okay, sure, sure.
Kristin:​ And she's spending it all. She—this is also—
Jenny:​ On shoes!
Kristin:​ On shoes, yeah. So she's wearing phenomenal pajamas. She's
wearing—listen, let's be real. This whole—Glory is just decked out in the most
beautiful fucking shit all the time. She's wearing gorgeous pajamas right now that
are, like, leather—or sorry, I got ahead of myself. Velvet pants and this beautiful
shirt. She's got four thousand boxes of shoes on the bed that she's trying on. Later,
we'll see her in a red leather dress. Jenny, something else that we get in this scene,
and we don't really spoil too much in this show, but I will say that these nicknames,
if this is your first viewing, of Glory are going to continue and they will simply just
get better. I wrote down a few of the names that Dreg, who we meet for the first
time—one of Glory's minions, I guess, is what we'll call this guy—calls her: "most
beauteous and supremely magnificent one," "most tingly and wonderful Glorificus,"
which I believe is her full name. "Shiny, special one." "Your terrifically smooth one,"
and your "creamy coolness," all in this one scene. We get all five of those names.
[laughs]
Jenny:​ Yeah. Working overtime.
Kristin:​ Yeah. And then, of course, Glory sees, in ​her​ copy of the Yellow Pages—
[laughs]
Jenny:​ Oh my god. It's already open to that page. And man, what a well-timed
reprinting of the latest edition of the Sunnydale phone book. [Kristin laughs] Can
you even believe… the synchronicity at work here?
Kristin:​ I mean, you know, Yellow Pages, not to be underestimated. Very powerful
tools in the early aughts and the late '90s. [laughs] So—


Jenny:​ Remember how you would just get a huge brick of one dropped on your
doorstep, like…
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ Probably every quarter?
Kristin:​ I read up on Yellow Pages and I found out that in their prime, they would
use 600,000 tons of paper annually. So.
Jenny:​ Jesus!
Kristin:​ And the first phone book came out in 1878, in New Haven, Connecticut,
which I thought was fun.
Jenny:​ Wow!
Kristin:​ Yeah. So there's your phone book facts, what everybody wanted from this
episode. [laughs] So, okay, so Glory rips the ad out of the Yellow Pages so that she
can find the Magic Box. And we cut to Buffy's house. And Riley is walking in and
he's like, oh no, the door is unlocked. And he opens the door and he's like,
footprints? Oh no. And Jenny, we—
Jenny:​ [laughs] Footprints!
Kristin:​ We have a—[laughs] yeah, I just imagine Spike had some muddy feet
when he walked in.
Jenny:​ Sure, sure.
Kristin:​ We have a jingle that we never get to use, so let's play it for Riley.
[Detective Riley jingle plays]
Detective Riley!
Kristin:​ Beautiful! Detective Riley, on the fucking case. We cut to Spike, who is
upstairs. And what is he doing, Jenny?
Jenny:​ He is having a good long euphoric sniff of a fuzzy pink sweater that belongs
to none other than Buffy the Vampire Slayer—[Kristin laughs] but lo! He is caught.
And he quickly whips the sweater behind his back as though he were up to nothing.
And Riley's like, "What are you doing here?" And Spike is like, "Me? What are ​you


doing here?" And Riley is very appropriately like, "Looking for the girl who's gonna
rip your arms off when she finds out you were in her bedroom."
Kristin:​ Mm-hmm.
Jenny:​ I'd like to take this opportunity to wave the white flag of peace, and alert
people that Riley didn't say, "​I'm​ gonna kick your ass." He said, "my very strong,
very hot girlfriend is gonna rip your arms off."
Kristin:​ Okay, yeah. That's a good point. We are post—you haven't heard it yet,
but you're about—you're gonna hear it in a few weeks, our interview with Marc
Blucas. And you'll notice, as of this episode, that although I will still keep pushing
Riley to the edge of my tolerance level here, I was weakened. I was weakened in
my knees.
Jenny:​ Mmm!
Kristin:​ Marc Blucas— [laughs] is just really beautiful and dreamy and so sweet.
And so I think it's gonna affect the amount of anti-Rileyness that I'm able to
conjure for you all. But it's—you know. I'm gonna do my best to be the Kristin that
you know and love. I will try my best not to succumb to too much of…
[THE PATRIARCHY jingle plays]
The patriarchy! [thunder clap, evil laughter]
Kristin:​ But Riley has—I mean, Riley has some really awful moments in this
episode. But for the most part, he has a really good episode, until we get to the
end. And I think that, yeah. We'll give him credit here. I think there's other places
later where we'll give him way more credit even then he'll get here.
Jenny:​ And continuing down the Detective Riley vein, he's like, "Were you just…
smelling that sweater?" And Spike's like, "no, no, no, no, bro, you got it all wrong."
And then Riley puts his hands very compellingly on his hips. [Kristin laughs] And
Spike is like, "I cannot deny it any longer! The power of your hands on your hips is
too much for me." And then says— [laughs] he takes a great big whiff and he's like,
"I'm a predator, she's my prey, it's totally natural." And then says, "Slayer musk is
bitter and aggravating." [laughter]
Kristin:​ It's good, it's good. It's a good scene. And so, we've talked a little bit
about Spike and his crush—"crush," if you even can call it that, it's deeper than
that, I think—on Buffy, his obsession with Buffy. And how sometimes those of us
who have crushes on people can misinterpret things, can take things that are not
intended as a return of affection and make them that. And Spike and Riley go


downstairs 'cause Spike's gonna leave, and Spike is making, I think, some decent
points to Riley. Like, "well, okay, she had drinks with me last night." That, I don't—
we know that, you know, they had drinks because—
Jenny:​ That was an information-gathering mission.
Kristin:​ Right, exactly. But then he makes the very good point, which we have
made several times this season and last season, which is, you know, she's done a
lot of spells—a lot of whatever they do to make vampires not able—to take away
their invitation so they can't come back in. And they've never taken Spike off the
list. And I feel like he has a solid point here. Not that Buffy is desiring him, but
certainly that, like, why? Why?
Jenny:​ Yeah. That is—it is peculiar.
Kristin:​ Mm-hmm. So—
Jenny:​ Um, Kristin.
Kristin:​ Yeah?
Jenny:​ You just flew past a very important thing.
Kristin:​ No, please, please. Go for it. [laughs]
Jenny:​ Back when our two favorite dudes were still upstairs, and Riley was in the
process of dragging Spike out of Buffy's room so he could scoot him down to the
first floor. Spike flailed and grabbed, successfully, a pair of frilly underthings that
were hanging out of a drawer on his way out. Just a little something to take the
edge off.
Kristin:​ I think they might have been hanging—was it a drawer or a hamper? I try
to block it out 'cause I don't—
Jenny:​ No, no, it was a nightstand, I think.
Kristin:​ Okay, so. Clean pair of Slayer undies—
Jenny:​ Clean. Thank god.
Kristin:​ Stolen from her room. Which, Spike… no thank you. So yeah, then
downstairs, speaking of piercing glances. [laughing] 'Cause you mentioned how
Riley put his hands on his hips upstairs, Spike's like, "you know, at least I still—we


might both be weaker than Buffy in strength and, you know, killing capacity. But I
still have the attitude." [laughter] Something Spike deeply prides himself on.
Jenny:​ Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin:​ "And what do you have, a piercing glance?"
Jenny:​ Well… he also has the ability to hold Spike in the sunlight and be like, [gruff
voice] "oh, am I dark enough for you now?"
Kristin:​ [laughing] Yeah. Spike is very good at press—one of Spike's main roles as
a character is to sort of press the buttons of other characters. To make their
insecurities bloom and—
Jenny:​ Well, this is like the other side of the coin of his heightened, like, you
know—of having the highest emotional IQ on the show. He's able to see things in a
broader way, like when everybody else is sort of lost in their own bullshit, he can
kind of see the bigger picture of like, how everyone's inter-connectivity is
functioning.
Kristin:​ Right.
Jenny:​ And he can use that for good, by highlighting things for people and helping
them get to realizations faster. Or he can know exactly which buttons to press and
when and how hard.
Kristin:​ Right. And he does. He presses the Riley insecurity button pretty hard. And
then he—[laughs] your favorite, I'm sure he finds a blanket in the bushes on his
way out to cover his head as he runs through the sunlight.
Jenny:​ No, no, no. He yells "blanket! Blanket!" and Riley furiously kicks the blanket
out the door.
Kristin:​ Oh, really? I missed that!
Jenny:​ Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Kristin:​ So there is a blanket, for sure.
Jenny:​ [simultaneously] Well, you know I love to see what Riley's up to. [Kristin
laughs] I watch his every move very closely. So—
Kristin:​ Wait—


Jenny:​ The one thing that we—
Kristin:​ Okay.
Jenny:​ We didn't talk about is that, you know, while Riley is holding Spike in the
sun and saying all kinds of shit and being like, "I'm the one who knows what Buffy
needs." Spike is like, "oh, then how come you're not at the hospital right now?"
Kristin:​ Oh, right. Right.
Jenny:​ And that's how Riley finds out that Joyce has gone in for some tests and
that that's where Buffy and Dawn are right now. And it's good that he has that
information so he can go be there, but not—[laughs]
Kristin:​ Not that he got it from—
Jenny:​ Not without Spike being like, "oh. Funny, her not telling you. I've known for
twelve hours."
Kristin:​ And I think that it's… so, leather is used in this show in very detailed ways.
It's, you know, Buffy and Faith. Faith is leather-clad and by the end of the season
of Buffy and Faith, Buffy shows up to kick Faith's ass and she's wearing red leather
pants. Angel has a leather coat and he gives it to Buffy. Just a lot of leather here.
And I have to say that I do believe that in the next scene, suddenly Riley shows up
wearing a red leather coat that he keeps on himself for the balance of this episode.
And I just feel like, you know, he was on his way to the hospital, [laughing] and he
was like, "you know, maybe Spike's right. Maybe I'm not bad enough." And then in
the window—
Jenny:​ Yeah, he's like, "pfuh, who's not dark enough now?"
Kristin:​ Yeah, and in the window, he saw—
Jenny:​ And then he like, pulls his sunglasses down in the rear-view and looks over
the edge of them at himself and he's like—he nods affirmingly, "nice."
Kristin:​ [laughs] He goes, like, five miles over the speed limit on his way to the
hospital. [laughter]
Jenny:​ Yeah! Relatable content!


Kristin:​ [laughs] So, okay. So getting serious, Riley is at the hospital. And this
episode is called Shadow, and this is one of the reasons why. We find out, through
the CAT scan, that they found a shadow in the scan of Joyce's brain and they need
to do a biopsy to find out what this is. So it's very dark and concerning at the
hospital and very sad.
Jenny:​ Yeah, this… sucks!
Kristin:​ I mean, you know, without jumping around too, too much, I do wanna say,
they've teased it a little bit already. But this episode, it really digs into the
demarcation—specifically, there's a line that's like, the medical and the magical
don't often overlap. And we're really digging into that now, of like, this is a show
about fantasy, about, you know, magic and demons and vampires. But also? It's a
show about real life. And most of the tales that we get are told through the
fantastical. And so they're really, in this episode, pushing down hard on the—this is
not fantastical. Which I think is important to note.
Jenny:​ Yeah. Yeah.
Kristin:​ Okay, so we go to the Magic Box and there's a conversation. Tara, by the
way—I think that Tara's hair is—maybe she dyed it or something? It's looking
great. It's looking fantastic. [Jenny laughs] So just, you know, shout out to Tara's
hair. And she is saying, "hey, what if we're not finding her in these books because
she's not a demon? What if she predates the written word?" and they're sort of
theorizing. And then this thing gets brought up, of like, well, they did say—when
the Dagon Sphere, when they were researching the Dagon Sphere, "That Which
Cannot be Named" was part of that information that they found. And I bring that
specific line up, Jenny, because I think that the most incredible removal of Giles'
glasses happens on that line.
Jenny:​ Ha, ha, ha!
Kristin:​ I have watched all the episodes to this point, and I think that this may be
the best one. I would like to play him—
Jenny:​ Wow.
Kristin:​ It was so moving to me, how he removed his glasses when he said that,
that I would like to play him his jingle.
[GILES jingle plays]
Giles! Hot dad!
When you were younger you were real bad


But now you're older, you got glasses
That help you watch over us!
Thank you, Giles!
Jenny:​ Wow! One for the books.
Kristin:​ [laughs] So yeah. You know, we're learning a little bit—or they're trying to
piece it together. "How will we ever find her? She could be anywhere!"
Jenny:​ Right, right, right. "There's no way for us to determine her moves, her
habits, where she'll turn up next," and as he says and turns… he's face to face with
a petite blond woman in a red leather dress. It's fucking Glory! But nobody knows
that 'cause Buffy's not in the shop. And Giles is like, "I beg your—" and Glory's like,
"Uh huh!" [laughter] And it's really funny. They do a little business, he sells her
some stuff, and then he comes back to the table and he's like, "ah, yes, what was I
saying? Yes, she could be anywhere."
Kristin:​ [laughs] Yeah, it's a good—it's a good little silly television joke. I'm here
for it, I like it.
Jenny:​ Yeah, yeah, totally.
Kristin:​ That we as the viewer, of course, know who this is. So we cut back to the
hospital, and this is where—so Riley, I think, is really a wonderful boyfriend in this
episode. I really do. He goes—I mean, he kind of undoes some of his quality steps
by the end, but we'll talk about it when we get there and why he's there and
what—you know, what's going on for him. But he's in the hospital and he's taking
care of Dawn. And in this scene, he takes off his red leather jacket. [Jenny laughs]
But he takes off his jacket and he puts it over her while she's sleeping.
Jenny:​ Awww!
Kristin:​ It's really fucking sweet and really special and really—you know, I'm sure
we've talked before on the podcast about just like, these moments that create
family, right? That they're not really moments you can force or make happen, and
this is one of those things. Something really bad is happening and everybody's
really worried and shit needs to get taken care of. Dawn needs to be taken to
school, picked up from school. These very practical moments that are happening
between, you know, Buffy and Dawn, Dawn and Riley, Buffy and the Scoobies are
all these new tethers of family that are being created.
Jenny:​ Right, right, right.


Kristin:​ So… yeah. And this is the scene where the doctor comes out and tells
Buffy the results of the biopsy. Which is interesting. I wonder if any of you are
listening and you are, you know, in the medical profession. If somebody has a
biopsy done… maybe Joyce had already, you know, approved that they could tell
Buffy. But I would imagine that that would have had to be cleared, right? That
if—that they would have to tell Joyce first normally, the results of her test, before
telling her kids, but maybe not. Maybe it's just if you're family—
Jenny:​ But maybe because Buffy's over 18—
Kristin:​ Right, right.
Jenny:​ It's a different thing.
Kristin:​ Yeah. So I don't know, but I'm curious,
bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com, I would love to find out the actual way that
this works. So it is a brain tumor, in laymen's terms. And this is, you know… we had
a moment of Buffy on the stairs of the house at the end of Fool for Love that
obviously was gutting. And her eyes, right, just—
Jenny:​ Are definitely doing the same thing.
Kristin:​ The same thing, they're just—they get, like—it's like a wide—[New York
accent] a cute little doe-eyed deer. [normal voice] But it really is like a wide-eyed
deer in the forest of just terror and sadness and fear and overwhelm, that we see in
her eyes and it's just awful, awful to see. And Ben, good old Ben! Paging Dr. Ben!
Jenny:​ Oh, good old Ben. Paging Dr. Ben, could you please relieve this young
woman who's being barraged with questions she couldn't possibly be expected to
know the answers to.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ Uh, yikes.
Kristin:​ Yeah, the doctor's asking her all manner of things. And I don't think this is
an uncommon experience. I think this is an accurate reflection of, like, there are a
lot of doctors in the world who are brilliant at being doctors and who are not very
great at picking up on—
Jenny:​ Who have no bedside manner. Yeah.
Kristin:​ Yeah.


Jenny:​ "So your mother has a brain tumor and one in three people—almost one in
the three people with this condition make it. Anyway, do you know if she has a cell
phone and do you know if her insurance requires copies of the MR—" like, what,
dude?
Kristin:​ Right, right. So Ben comes over, makes up a lie about this doctor being
needed in ICU. And then says to Buffy, "It looked like you could use a break."
Which is really nice. It's a quick little Ben and Buffy moment. And then Buffy goes
over to Riley and she's like, "I have to go find out a spell for this. I have to go find
out what the magic is that will take care of this thing that's happening with my
mom." And Riley just says, "People get sick." Which is interesting that—I mean, I
think Buffy's in a—obviously in a state of panic and fear. But, you know, Riley
doesn't have a ton of experience with magic, at this point. He's been around it, but
you know, it's surprising to see him draw that line in this scene as quickly as he
does.
Jenny:​ I think somebody has to, and also, I mean, he's not a stranger to the
supernatural.
Kristin:​ That's true. That's true. I guess, yeah, he was in a laboratory of tin foil,
doing medical work on fantastical creatures, so. Or at least, near it.
Jenny:​ Right, right, right.
Kristin:​ Yeah. So Buffy says to Riley, you know, not to tell Dawn anything yet. This
is very reminiscent of me—I won't tell the full saga on this episode. But my mom
went through a ​really​ terrifying medical ordeal when I was about Buffy's age,
actually. And my sister was about Dawn's age and the dynamic was exactly what is
unfolding here, where I was making sure that she was, you know, getting to school
okay and getting the practical things. And she was not told the severity of what was
happening with my mom. And so this is very—a lot of the way that this unfolds in
the hospital in this episode is very familiar to me and I think they do a good job
with it.
Jenny:​ Mmm.
Kristin:​ So.
Jenny:​ [sighs] So.
Kristin:​ In the words of Anya… [laughter]


Jenny:​ "Hey!"
Kristin:​ "Hey!"
Jenny:​ [yells] "Hey!" [laughter] Okay, so check this out. I watched this with closed
captioning on, just to be sure. So Giles sold someone a Kohl's Amulet and
Sobekium Bloodstone—
Kristin:​ Mmhmm.
Jenny:​ Of the Sobek people, so here's what I think happened. I think that a writer
was like, what are words that I haven't… included yet, that haven't been introduced
in the Buffyverse? Let's see, what's a place? [Kristin laughs] Ohh, there's that place
where I got that pack of socks recently, Kohl's.
Kristin:​ Kohl's—it is ​Kohl's,​ right? K-O-H-L?
Jenny:​ It's K-O-H-L. And then, they're like, hmm, lizard, reptiles, hmm. Oh, and
iced tea and flavored beverages. Sobe. Sobekium.
Kristin:​ Oh god!
Jenny:​ So I think this is—
Kristin:​ Fucking—oh my god.
Jenny:​ This is what I—this is my hypothesis, this is what I think is going on.
Kristin:​ Holy shit. That actually checks out, Jenny, because when—in ​this s
​ cene, I
was like, ooh, Sobekium—Sobek, what is this? And I looked it up and I was like,
ooh, this is—'cause you know, it's like 50/50 on this show. Sometimes I look things
up and I find the article on Buffy, 'cause they've created it. And sometimes I find a
whole history of this real thing that they're referencing. And Sobek is a real ancient
Egyptian deity but he was a crocodile god.
Jenny:​ Ah… ha!
Kristin:​ Yeah. Who was either presented as a crocodile or as a human with a
crocodile head. Which was really cool when I found this out, and I was like, oh, this
is really drawing on this thing. And then I was like, wait, but it's not a crocodile, it's
a fucking snake and they call it a reptile thing. So I'm actually going to support
your thesis here that no one read anything except for a bottle of iced tea. [laughs]


Jenny:​ Yeah, maybe. Although now I'm looking at the Sobe Wikipedia—
Kristin:​ Mm-hmm.
Jenny:​ And Sobe actually allegedly is an abbreviation of South Beach or South
Beach Beverage Company. [Kristin laughs] Which is now owned by Pepsi Co, which
is headquartered in Purchase, New York, just across the street from my college.
Kristin:​ Wow. And there you have it. [singing] "The circle of life!"
Jenny:​ [laughter] Yeah, yeah.
Kristin:​ Okay, so. Regardless of how they came to this, it would have been nice—I
would have preferred to have a human with a crocodile head be the demon in this
episode, to be honest with you.
Jenny:​ Sure. Sure.
Kristin:​ But they realize that, through Anya being like, "you ​never​ sell these things
together, you fool!" They put it together that, oh no, it was a small blond woman—
Jenny:​ Yes, yes, Giles is like, "why are you so worried? The young woman to whom
I sold them would have had to have enormous pow… oh dear lord."
Kristin:​ [laughs] Record scratch. Everyone but Xander realizes that the girl was
Glory, Glory was the girl.
Jenny:​ Right, right, right.
Kristin:​ We go to the Sunnydale carousel. Beautiful carousel that we have here in
Sunnydale.
Jenny:​ Oh, yeah.
Kristin:​ And I would like to give a shout out to the fucking monks, who have
created incredible memories here for our Key, Dawn. [Jenny laughs] I mean,
just—the specificity.
Jenny:​ So rich.
Kristin:​ She's like, "it was my 10th birthday. My party was at the carousel, we had
just moved here so nobody came, but my mom wanted to get her money's worth."
I'm like, dang-guh! These monks spent like, at least six weeks creating this child's


memories. [laughs] So shout out to them. But it's—this is very sweet. This is
another—like, some points for Riley. Riley is—doesn't know what to do, and so he
buys Dawn ice cream and takes her to the fucking carousel to try to cheer her up,
which doesn't work, but the thought counts. And it's—
Jenny:​ I was watching this scene, feeling like, why is this carousel so familiar? That
can't be right. But it's the carousel in Griffith Park!
Kristin:​ Oh, wow!
Jenny:​ Of course. Of course that makes all the sense, but I was like, man, those
dirt paths are really ringing a bell right now.
Kristin:​ There's a definite—just—this is probably not a connection that is worthy of
this podcast, but here goes.
Jenny:​ Ha!
Kristin:​ I'm pretty sure there's a big carousel scene in Buffy the Vampire Slayer
the movie. I'm having a memory of a carousel. So I don't know, find out. Go ahead,
go look. Run, scamper. [laughs] See if there's any connection. Come back to me.
On that note, Jenny, why don't we take a moment to hear a word from some of our
sponsors?
Jenny: ​Heck yeah.
[Ad break]
Jenny:​ Okay, so. What's important about this scene besides Dawn's carefully
sculpted, rich-in-detail memories, is that she's like, "mm. Buffy sure cries a lot less
with you than she did with Angel." And Riley's like—
Kristin:​ Yeah. I thought you might be Team Dawn on this one, Jenny.
Jenny:​ [laughs] Riley's like, "oh, nice, she cried a lot with Angel?" [Kristin laughs]
Thinking that things are gonna go his way, but without realizing it, Dawn kinda
dashes him up against the rocks by letting him know that with Angel, it was like
"every day was the end of the world, but she doesn't get all worked up like that
over you."
Kristin:​ Mm, yeah…


Jenny:​ And then—[laughs] with only the self-perceived wisdom that a 12-yearold—or a 14-year-old can really possess, Dawn says, "I think you've been really
good for her." [laughter]
Kristin:​ Well, like, I don't know—
Jenny:​ Which is accurate!
Kristin:​ I—I think that if Riley was not feeling this specific insecurity, he would
understand Dawn's point. Because we've witnessed the relationship of Angel and
Buffy and we've witnessed the relationship of Riley and Buffy. And what Dawn is
trying to say is like, you are a much more serene presence in her life. There's
not—you're not stirring the pot and sitting by your fireplace with your soul,
brooding—you know. [laughs]
Jenny:​ Right.
Kristin:​ And there is validity to that observation, though we all know how I feel
about Riley. I do get Dawn's point and I think that we see it in this episode, maybe
more than we've seen in most other episodes, the way that he is sort of this figure
of—she just kinda holds to him like a rock in this episode.
Jenny:​ Mm-hmm.
Kristin:​ Even though she's, you know, distracted with everything else. So. Anyhow.
Let's go back to the Magic Box. We've already kind of discussed this conversation.
Buffy walks in and she's like, "we need to find a spell" and they are pointing out to
her that it's really complicated when you use magic for medical reasons. And I think
Willow says something along the lines of, it's also her brain and so that's super
complicated and if I—
Jenny:​ Yeah, delicate, delicate.
Kristin:​ Right. It's not something you want to fuck up, like, that would be a very
bad fuck-up. They try to get Anya to pick up on the hint to not bring up Glory…
Jenny:​ [laughs loudly] Oh, and she catches what's going on just in time. [laughter]
Kristin:​ Which is very cute.
Jenny:​ The timing of this scene is really enjoyable.


Kristin:​ Yeah, yeah. It's very cute, it's very—Anya's really—she's starting to get a
foothold. She's not there yet, but she's doing her best. And I'm here for it. And
then of course, Buffy is like, "so how did she get away with these items? [Jenny
laughs] How did she manage to get the amulet and—"
Jenny:​ Oh my god. And Anya putting the back of her hand up against the side of
her mouth to be like, [whispers] "Giles sold it to her." [laughter]
Kristin:​ It's good. Let's give her her fucking jingle. Come on, she earned it.
[ANYA jingle plays]
[cash register rings]
She spent one millennium, demonically vengeancin'
Speaks her mind and then some, you know
She's partial to the finer things
And down with double boyfriends, oh yeah
Exchanging cash for goods and also services
She'd love to hold the money for ya (she'll hold that cash)
Just keep the bunnies far from… Anya!
Jenny:​ Every episode, Anya gets a jingle!
Kristin:​ [laughs] So… we learn more of—kind of information about the reptile
worshippers—
Jenny:​ The temple of Sobek, where they only drink Sobe!
Kristin:​ [laughs] It's actually located in South Beach.
Jenny:​ Right, right, right, of course.
Kristin:​ And they put it together that she's gonna make a cobra. And Xander gets a
nice little one-liner in here, like, "ugh, why is it always snakes? Could it just be
bunnies one time?" to Anya's fury.
Jenny:​ Horror!
Kristin:​ How dare you have ruined my dreams for a week with that, Xander?
Jenny:​ Yeah, yeah.
Kristin:​ And then we go to a place we have not been since Season 1, Jenny.


Jenny:​ Yes. It's… are you ready? It's the Sunnydale zoo! What's been going on?
What kind of improvements have been made?
Kristin:​ Wow.
Jenny:​ We get any new animals?
Kristin:​ [laughs] Do you think that the cobra was there when the hyenas were
there? Do you think—
Jenny:​ Yeah, they know each other?
Kristin:​ Right, like, he has some tales in his head, he's like, "I'll go find you your
Key, Glory, but whew, later I gotta tell you the story about some hyenas." [laughs]
Jenny:​ Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Well, they're in very different areas 'cause the cobra is in
the reptile house, which—hey, weren't the Dursleys just here?
Kristin:​ [laughing] Yeah. So okay, so there's a cobra. A real cobra. It's unclear how
many—how much of this is real cobra vs. fake cobra, but at least part of it is real
cobra. They put the cobra into the classic cobra vessel. [laughter] Classic, just
exactly where you think a cobra would be put.
Jenny:​ Yep, yep.
Kristin:​ Into this big vase and they start their incantations. Glory is, you know,
accurately like, "god, these fucking incantations, man. They're always overwritten."
[laughs] Just like, get to the point! [laughter] And in comes Buffy. Jenny, you are
our wrestling expert. And maybe you have something to say about this fight, but I
believe, knowing nothing about wrestling, that Buffy and Glory do a wrestling move
called the Patrick Swayze in this scene. [laughter] I've made it up.
Jenny:​ Okay, so I don't remember any of the visual details of this fight, so let me
guess what you mean by that.
Kristin:​ Okay, okay.
Jenny:​ At a certain point, Glory sidles up to the cobra vessel, puts her hands on it
very gently, like one hand on each side. And then Buffy comes up behind her and
puts her hands—
Kristin:​ [laughing] Oh my god!


Jenny:​ On top of Glory's hands. Is that what happens?
Kristin:​ You're in the wrong movie! You're in the wrong movie. [laughs]
Jenny:​ Oh, oh, oh. Oh! Oh.
Kristin:​ But amazing, incredible.
Jenny:​ Lift, and lift! And I carried a watermelon.
Kristin:​ Right. So I thought where you were gonna go is the classic Dirty Dancing
move, which is above the head, right?
Jenny:​ Mm-hmm.
Kristin:​ Baby gets lifted above Patrick Swayze's head. But it's not that, it's actually
the dance that Patrick Swayze teaches Baby, which contains one of the gayest
scenes in 80s movies where Penny and Baby are learning—like, Penny is teaching
Baby the dance. It's ​real​ gay. If you haven't seen it, go back and get a good look at
that. But the part of the move in this dance that he first teaches her, it's sort of
like, they both put their arms behind the other one's neck and then sort of pull out,
so that their hands are then sliding down each other's arms? It's hard to describe.
Jenny:​ Mmm…
Kristin:​ But if you know Dirty Dancing and you saw this scene, you know what I'm
talking about. I'm dubbing it the Patrick Swayze, so if it has a wrestling move, fine.
Like, if it has a wrestling name, fine. But I'm calling it Patrick Swayze from now on.
Cool.
Jenny:​ Oof.
Kristin:​ So—
Jenny:​ [makes vrin-vrin-da-da-da noise]
Kristin:​ Glory kicks Buffy's ass, and ends it by saying "scene." A really great nod to
those of us who were theater kids. And then she says, "arise! Arise!" and the snake
arises. And miracle upon miracles, Jenny, not only has the snake grown in size, but
it has also sprouted two baby arms.
Jenny:​ Two little T-rex arms. [laughter] Two little kangaroo… li'l [inaudible].


Kristin:​ Just like, why? Why? Because I thought, is there—there must be a scene
later where the arms come into play. Like, they must have needed the arms. Is he
gonna open a jar? What is he gonna do with his arms?
Jenny:​ Well, you know what he needs them for is when he's going real
fast—[Kristin laughs] when he's gliding real fast, he needs to hold them out in front
of himself for balance. [laughter] You'll see!
Kristin:​ I will see. Unfortunately, I will never be able to unsee.
Jenny:​ But now, remember when we had a demon lizard that didn't have arms?
That was also pretty bad.
Kristin:​ That's true. But I think this is worse. It looks like—it honestly looks, when
we get to the CGI scenes, it looks like it's a snake on wheels with arms. [laughter]
It just looks like it's a toy that a kid rolled across the room, except instead he's
rolled it across Sunnydale.
Jenny:​ I mean, it really—the arms give it a real action figure-y kind of thing.
Kristin:​ Yeah. I guess it's true, it's for bal—I don't know. It's not good, guys.
Anyway, Glory is like, "yo, the reason I have arisen you is because you need to go
find the fucking Key. You have the vision in your shiny reptile eyes to see what I
can't see and find the fucking Key."
Jenny:​ Hey, I just wanna say… sorry. I'm looking at pictures of the snake now.
[laughs] Oh my god, did you see this picture of Sarah Michelle Gellar and the
snake? [laughter]
Kristin:​ I did.
Jenny:​ [laughing] Holy shit! Oh my god! Okay. That's really good, but I'm looking
at the arms. They're just like… I guess because the snake head is a bit larger than
would be proportionate for the size of the head of the human that's inside this suit,
it makes the arms seem a little smaller. But they're actually not super small
feeling—
Kristin:​ Jenny—
Jenny:​ It's just that he's holding them up and as—
Kristin:​ I feel—I just feel like you're missing the point—


Jenny:​ What's the point?
Kristin:​ Which is not the size of the arms, but the fact that a snake does not have
arms. [laughter]
Jenny:​ Well, maybe something happens, like evolutionarily, when, um, you know…
Kristin:​ [laughs] Yes. Sorry, continue. There's a girl with two pennies and a snake
with arms.
Jenny:​ There's a girl with two pennies and a snake with some cute little arms…
Kristin:​ So Riley gets to the fucking Magic Box and is like, "you fucking let her go?
Like, you let Buffy go to this fight?" And Giles, fucking understandably, is like,
"Riley, you know Buffy. There's no letting or not letting, she does what she wants to
fucking do." And then Xander sidles up for a mano y mano chat. [laughs] With—
Jenny:​ Whew!
Kristin:​ They really—I mean, not only do they have a deeply emotional
conversation, but Xander also says "half-cocked" to Riley, so…
Jenny:​ Ha! Wow.
Kristin:​ Keep that in mind. They have a conversation about Buffy and Xander's
concern about the fact that Riley has blown up the thing without—you know, like,
what are you doing, man? And Riley walks out basically in kind of a huff, and he
says—as he leaves, he's like, "you know, let me know if she needs me" in a way
that is meant, of course, to convey like, she obviously will never need me.
Jenny:​ Right.
Kristin:​ He's feeling very overwhelmed. The cobra is having an adventure, Jenny.
Jenny:​ Wait, wait, wait. Before we go to the cobra, I just wanna highlight that at
the very beginning of this scene that's back in the Magic Box, a customer is asking
Giles for a copy of "Aleister Crowley Sings."
Kristin:​ Oh.
Jenny:​ Which, so far as I can tell, is not an album that actually exists, but are you
familiar with Aleister Crowley?


Kristin:​ [laughs] No.
Jenny:​ Okay, so Aleister Crowley was an English occultist…
Kristin:​ Mm!
Jenny:​ Ceremonial magician, poet, painter, novelist and mountaineer. He founded
the religion of Thelema, identifying himself as the prophet entrusted with guiding
humanity into the Æon of Horus in the early 20th century.
Kristin:​ Oh my god!
Jenny:​ Yeah, he's got like, a whole thing.
Kristin:​ Wow! I had no—I didn't even hear the line and I had no familiarity, so
thank you for that. Holy shit.
Jenny:​ Hey, no problem.
Kristin:​ Okay, so now can we go to church with the big snake?
Jenny:​ We can. Did you know that we've been to the outside of this building?
Kristin:​ No. Like we, you and me, Jenny and Kristin?
Jenny:​ I'm sure that when we—yeah, that's right. That is in Santa Barbara.
Kristin:​ Oh!
Jenny:​ We were taken there on our tour. [Kristin gasps] And it was very—I believe
it was very near to a great field of roses.
Kristin:​ Oh, wow. Yeah!
Jenny:​ And I think if I'm remembering correctly that it's a monastery.
Kristin:​ Wow! Good… it's lucky that one of us has a brain that remembers things,
you know?
Jenny:​ Uh-huh, it sure is!
Kristin:​ You gotta—listen, kids. If you're gonna start a podcast, make sure one of
your two hosts has a memory.


Jenny:​ Yes. [laughs]
Kristin:​ It's very helpful to the content. [laughs] But what—so the cobra… listen.
The cobra has a lot of open-ended questions for me. Why—he goes to the church
first 'cause that's where the monks were, is that what we're to believe?
Jenny:​ I believe that's the idea. And it's also so we can get a—our first sweet
close-up of that tail swishing across the floor.
Kristin:​ And we get, you know—I don't know if you all remember the doily
pan-down—beautiful doily pan-down camera work that we got in—
Jenny:​ Ah!
Kristin:​ Season 2, maybe.
Jenny:​ Hell yeah.
Kristin:​ But we get a beautiful crucifix Christ pan-down to reveal the snake, which
I think is very nice. [laughter] A similar move, different, from doily to Christ. Title
of my memoir.
Jenny:​ [laughing] Your memoir, of course.
Kristin:​ Yeah. So, yeah. And then my other question is—it seems like the snake is
very emotional, because it—to me and the timeline of the snake, it—the snake is
calmly hunting. 'Cause he goes undetected, they couldn't find him, nobody could
find him. And then as soon as he locates Dawn, he becomes very reckless and he is
just willy-nilly all over the streets, knocking into people, everybody sees the snake.
So are we to believe that the snake is excited, like he's excited that he's achieved
his mission?
Jenny:​ I think—it read to me like there was some kind of mystical imperative. Like,
find the Key. And then as—the second you fucking find it, you get back to me as
quickly as you possibly can.
Kristin:​ I see, I see.
Jenny:​ That's what I got from it. I don't know if that includes knock over a fire
hydrant, throw a rolling dumpster into the side of a small sporty red car…
Kristin:​ Uh, Giles' snake chase in that car is to be noted. [laughs]


Jenny:​ Yeah!
Kristin:​ He looks pretty great. He looks way better in that car than he looked in the
Citroën, I think.
Jenny:​ Yeah. Yeah, good thing he's not driving that anymore.
Kristin:​ So there's a quick scene where Buffy calls on a payphone. [singing] "I'm at
a payphone, doo-doo-doo-doo, doo."
Jenny:​ Oh boy. Oh boy. She's icing her shoulder, she's letting Giles know that the
big snake is on the loose. And then we get like a melancholy music kind of
montage—
Kristin:​ Mm, Melon Collie and the Infinite Montage.
Jenny:​ Right, exactly. Riley's at the bar drinking. Then Riley lets that girl vampire
bite him, and he stakes her. I say… character assassination?
Kristin:​ [laughs] Yeah, I mean. This is like, whoa. What is even happening here?
Riley's in—
Jenny:​ You know when you are—like, all of a sudden, you're in a car, going in one
direction and then all of a sudden, you're in a car going in a totally different
direction? But like, nothing really—it doesn't feel like anybody turned the wheel or
anything. [laughs] You're just like, whoa! What's happening?
Kristin:​ Right, it is—yeah, it's almost—I mean, 'cause they pulled back, right—the
Previously On brought us this scene from a while back where he's like, "she doesn't
love me." And so they're pulling on these themes again, but—
Jenny:​ That was like—that was the first hard turn without a ton of… backup.
Kristin:​ Right, but it's also—I just feel like there are episodes that we've seen
where it would have been even more believe—I still am like, I don't know about this
turn. But it's just like, in this episode, it's—I don't know. I wanna be on the train
that you probably—a lot of you want me to be on, which is like, "Riley couldn't take
it, 'cause duh-duh-duh-duh-duh." But a lot of what we see in this episode is Riley
doing really great things. And so it is a pretty hard turn that like, this insecurity has
driven him to not talk to Buffy, to whatever. And when her mom has just been
diagnosed with a brain tumor, to make this choice. And so if we're going to believe
that Riley has made this choice, and this is not just the writers taking a turn, this is


really shitty. Really shitty, really—like, a big bummer. But we'll see. We'll see where
this goes.
Jenny:​ Mm-hm, mm-hm, mm-hm.
Kristin:​ We continue with the big snake adventure. The snake is now sniffing the
carousel horses. [laughter] And Dawn is at the Magic Box. Buffy comes in, they hug
each other in this very tender moment. And Buffy's like, "has anyone seen the big
snake?"
Jenny:​ [laughs] And the big snake is like, "I have!" And is like—smashes through
the window and is like—
Kristin:​ [simultaneously] Yeah, the big snake, in a top hat and a cane, is like—
[sings jazzy tune]
Jenny:​ "Oh yeah!" [laughter] We just went on our separate things there.
Kristin:​ Yeah, what did you say, and I'll tell you what I said. [laughs]
Jenny:​ Uh, I said, the snake smashes through the window and is like, "Oh yeah!"
[laughter]
Kristin:​ That's pretty much—I think they could go together. Mine was in a top hat
saying [sings jazzy tune].
Jenny:​ Oh, beautiful, Michigan J. Frog. [laughter] The actual…
Kristin:​ Yes. The WB…
Jenny:​ Mascot.
Kristin:​ He's learned a couple things from The WB frog.
Jenny:​ Right, right, right. [laughs]
Kristin:​ So—which I would have preferred, honestly. I would have liked the episode
better if The WB frog was the demon. Okay, so the snake is like, sniff-sniff,
sniff-sniff, puts his top hat down. And looks directly into Dawn's Key soul, as
Dawn—A-plus screaming, Michelle Trachtenberg. Fantastic screaming.
[Clip from episode plays of Dawn screaming]


Kristin:​ She's screaming, she's screaming, she's screaming and the snake is like,
peace. Got what I needed.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ And Willow—
Jenny:​ And it's off to the races.
Kristin:​ Right, off to the snake races. And Willow is like, "Why was the snake afraid
of Dawn?" And Buffy just looks at Giles, still the only person who knows what's up
here, and says, "It knows."
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ And Giles is like, [car screeching noise]. [laughs]
Jenny:​ [car screeching noise] To the Giles mobile!
Kristin:​ [laughs] Okay, so they—so Giles learns her name is Glory, right. 'Cause
Buffy says it in the car and he's like, "Glory?" and Buffy's like, "yeah, I heard the—"
Jenny:​ Dreg!
Kristin:​ "The minion call her that." So now everybody knows this person's name.
Jenny:​ Right, right, right.
Kristin:​ We also learn an incredibly important fact in the next scene which is that
Glory loves to get shoes from Aldo.
Jenny:​ I wanted to talk about this, because there's nothing wrong with Aldo. But I
feel like there is—
Kristin:​ Aldo is my choice of where to get shoes, but is—
Jenny:​ Sure, sure.
Kristin:​ But I am not Glory.
Jenny:​ It's not fancy. I wouldn't think—like, what's a luxury shoe that somebody
living in a hotel room that has a round bed would wear?


Kristin:​ I do have to say though that—so I don't buy it. I don't buy that Glory
would be—I think that, you know, she'd be getting some Carrie Bradshaw level
shoes. But I also have to say that there may be a bit of Glory that's practical,
because I get my shoes from Aldo. Because I do think—like, those super high
patent leather heels that I wore to Prom, those were from Aldo. And—so they make
high heeled shoes, they make fancy shoes, but they are a little bit more
comfortable. So maybe Glory's just trying to—maybe she's got her really expensive
red bottoms over in one closet but then she's got her Aldo, like, this looks hot but
also is practical for fighting. That's the only way I can—yeah.
Jenny:​ Yeah, I can stand and suck brains in it all the day long.
Kristin:​ Exactly. Exactly. She's like, "tick freaking tock." And not to My Cousin
Vinny us twice in one episode, but she's like, "My snake clock is ticking!" [laughs]
Then we see snake on wheels.
Jenny:​ Ugh.
Kristin:​ And Buffy is—has overtaken the cobra, quite literally. Like Khaleesi on her
dragon, Buffy—
Jenny:​ Wow! But with a chain and some choking.
Kristin:​ Mmhmm, Buffy sits atop of him.
Jenny:​ And this sneaky little fuck. This sneaky little fuck plays dead!
Kristin:​ Would you call him snakey little fuck?
Jenny:​ This snakey little ​fuck​. Plays dead and tricks Buffy. And then it's back on!
Kristin:​ Yeah, just kidding! And then she's like, uh, okay, the chain didn't work so
I'm gonna punch your snake face until you die.
Jenny:​ And this, like, sucks and obviously this is Buffy doing something about
something 'cause she's powerless in the face of whatever's going on with her
mother and her mother's health. And this is something she can do.
Kristin:​ Right. This is very reminiscent of Faith, actually. Remember the scene
with—
Jenny:​ Oh my god…


Kristin:​ Yeah. Faith—where Faith is just obliterating that vampire. Or whatever.
Jenny:​ Right. Right, right, right. So psychologically, this is like… ugh. This is rough.
But then, you know, what really takes the edge off is when they zoom out to a wide
shot. And you see—
Kristin:​ [laughing] Yeah!
Jenny:​ Buffy punching the snake and it's like, rubber head is just like, b-b-bounce!
B-b-bounce! B-b-bounce! B-b-bounce!
Kristin:​ [laughs] I had the thought of like, you know, as an actor. I saw—so a
friend of ours and actually was on the podcast way, way, way back, Shannon
Woodward. She posted something recently, I think it was about Cats. [laughs] And
she was like—the quote was like, "when they tell you they'll fix it in post." You
know? And it was like, fur—
Jenny:​ Oh, yeah.
Kristin:​ The image, it was like, the cat's actual hand—having actual human hands.
Jenny:​ Human fingers.
Kristin:​ And holding them like cat paws. [laughs] And I thought of that in seeing
this. I was like, probably—you know, as an actor, you have to kind of believe that
even though you're punching a ridiculous rubber snake head, they're gonna use all
the tools they have to fix it for you later. And they did not. [laughs]
Jenny:​ No, they did not. No, they did not.
Kristin:​ Oh god. Okay, sorry. I laughed like that watching it and I forgot all about
it, so I'm glad you brought it up again.
Jenny:​ Happy to help. And then from up on high, Glory is just continuing to stare
out the window of her hotel. We assume she doesn't see Buffy punching the snake,
'cause she's not laughing. And she just keeps staring, waiting.
Kristin:​ She's like Bette Midler in Hocus Pocus. She's like, "boooook!" except she's
like, "snaaaake!" [laughter] And her snake never comes. And so then we go from
the fantastical to the harsh reality of the hospital. We end the episode where we
began the episode, in the hospital, actually. And Joyce is about to tell Dawn.
Jenny:​ Ugh!


Kristin:​ Yeah, and so this is rough. And I don't like what they do with Riley here
either. Because they really—they—you know. So if you haven't just rewatched, this
scene in the hospital is like, Buffy is like "I'll send Dawn in by herself and you can
talk to her." And she goes out into the hallway and Riley comes up. And Riley says
to—first of all, Riley's wearing the classic, classic wear—
Jenny:​ Well!
Kristin:​ Of that post-hickey slash vamp makeout sesh.
Jenny:​ The best thing—the ​best​ thing about Riley getting bit in the neck by a
vampire is that he's got a reason to wear this turtleneck. Dig that shit out of the
back of your closet, my boy, and put it on, post-haste.
Kristin:​ [laughs] So Riley holds her and says like, "let it out." And she says, very
understandably, "I can't." We all know this emotional state, right? Where you know
if you even so much as let out one tear, you're not stopping and then you're not
gonna be able to get it under control. And that's basically what she says.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ Right? "They need me and if I start, I won't be able to stop." And what I
don't love is—and I know it's connecting to what we saw with Riley and the vamp
and whatever. But I just really believe, after everything we've seen Riley do in this
episode with Dawn and whatever, that in this environment, I don't… [sighs] I know
I'm betraying so many of you. But I don't buy that Riley in the hospital with this is
gonna feel left out. It seems like the situation is too extreme for what we're seeing
manifest in Riley at the end of the episode. I buy it in the grave—in the cemetery, I
buy it with the demons, I buy it with the fighting, I buy it in all those places. But I
just—I think that for most of us, and I do include Riley in this, I think that when
somebody is sick and you're in the hospital, these things don't come to the surface
unless you're an actual asshole. Which I—believe it or not, I don't think Riley is
actual asshole. I think that he would have understood this and he would have just
sat down in that hospital chair and waited for them to come out.
Jenny:​ Yeah, it doesn't feel true to his character. The only kind of sense that I
could make of it is that we're to take—like, I could understand maybe a little bit
more if we were to take Riley being left alone in the hall after that exchange, as
like, all he wants to do is to be there for her. But maybe it's kind of feeling like…
Kristin:​ He can't help, no matter what.


Jenny:​ He can't help, no matter what. Maybe he's feeling a little bit like, she
doesn't need me. Maybe he's feeling—another thing that I was thinking about was
like… Riley clearly wants to be a partner.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ Riley wants to be in partnership. And it doesn't necessarily always feel like
Buffy does. I don't think we ever see Buffy thrive in partnership.
Kristin:​ Right, and that's—it's the overtasked person. I mean, obviously her tasks
are a bit heftier than some of ours. But, you know, she's putting out so many fires
so much of the time that it's not very possible or accessible for her to be in
partnership in that way.
Jenny:​ And so maybe what we're to take from this last shot of him is like, it's really
maybe starting to sink in a little bit that perhaps they don't want the same things
out of a relationship.
Kristin:​ Yeah, I like that interpretation more than the way I saw it. And sometimes
my—you know, I—recently, friend of the pod Joanna Robinson framed the way that
I view things as, I am an emotional viewer. And it really resonated for me. Like, I
get very emotionally invested in things when I watch them, I'm not a critic at heart.
I don't—it has to be pretty fucking bad for me to be like, this was bad. I get
invested. So sometimes I conflate what I don't—what I didn't want to be happening
in this scene is what I kind of made the scene in my mind. So I like your
assessment a little bit better than mine. And I get that, and I also get how some of
Riley's insecurities can obviously make the jump from, you know, fighting and
demon stuff to just everything when you're feeling really overwhelmed and like you
aren't getting what you need. And I think that that's correct. So. Yeah, it's pretty
somber. Okay, let's take a turn. Let's take a turn out of this somber corner of
discussion and go headlong into… the Sexual Tension Awards.
[SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays]
Sexual tension award!
Jenny:​ Well! It's time once again for the most important part of the podcast, the
Sexual Tension Awards. [Kristin laughs] For this episode, we respectfully and
humbly submit the following nominees for your consideration. First up, for a
smokey little exchange of "I don't know what kind of action ​you're​ looking for," it's
Xander and Riley! Let them live! Let them love! Let them laugh!
Kristin:​ Cast your votes for the half-cocked couple.


Jenny:​ Ha-ha!
Kristin:​ Second up, we have Glory and her shoes. She is very into her shoes and
the way they feel on her perfect feet.
Jenny:​ And how they highlight her ankles or fail to do so.
Kristin:​ Mm, yes.
Jenny:​ Third up, well. I think this is the only actual character's mouth touching part
of character's—other character's body? Thing that happens in the whole episode.
It's Riley and Sandy the vampire.
Kristin:​ Yeah. I mean, I would call that sexual tension. You know. And last but not
least, Jenny, I'm a big—a lifelong fan of the film Dirty Dancing.
Jenny:​ I know you are.
Kristin:​ I've watched it over and over and over again in my youth, in my
adulthood. And I would be remiss if not to nominate Glory and Buffy for their
beautiful wrestling fight dance move that I named the Patrick Swayze.
Jenny:​ [laughs] Great. Great, great, great.
Kristin:​ [laughs] You can participate in our Sexual Tension democracy over on our
Twitter. What's our Twitter, Jenny?
Jenny:​ It's @BufferingCast. Please.
Kristin:​ The poll will stay open for one week, so get on over there and vote and
we'll see who wins. This was not an episode rife with sexual tension. We did our
best, we hope we did you proud.
Jenny:​ Yes.
[SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays]
Sexual tension award!
Kristin:​ Alright, Jenny! We've done it yet again. First episode of 2020. We've got
snakes, we've got hospitals, we've got… some other stuff. [laughs]
Jenny:​ Yeah, and if you haven't seen the picture at this point of the man cobra in a
towel holding a roll of toilet, do yourself—


Kristin:​ [laughing] "Man cobra."
Jenny:​ A favor. And look up that image.
Kristin:​ Yes, please do. Jenny, when you are not looking at beautiful pictures of
man cobras in towels, where can people find you?
Jenny:​ [laughs] Well! Well! I'm Jenny Owen Youngs and when I'm not watching
Buffy and shopping at Kohl's and chugging Sobe, I'm usually writing and recording
songs. You can learn more about my musical life and hear some of those songs
over at jennyowenyoungs.com. And you can give me a shout on Twitter
@JennyOwenYoungs. Also, I will remind you that I put out a new EP and a holiday
song at the end of last year, which you can find. The EP's called Night Shift, the
holiday song is called Maybe Next Year. And also you can hear more of my speaking
voice over on my other television recap podcast about a tiny, blond protagonist,
Veronica Mars Investigations.
Kristin:​ Jenny, the New York Times wrote about your fucking holiday song.
Jenny:​ Oh yeah! No big deal. It was like, we picked 13 songs, they're by, you
know, a group of peers including Taylor Swift. Blink 182.
Kristin:​ Wow.
Jenny:​ Macklemore. Jenny Owen Youngs. Some other people are on that list.
Kristin:​ Pretty fucking fantastic. So, yeah.
Jenny:​ Pretty cool, very cool. Thank you, New York Times.
Kristin:​ Way to round out the decade, Jenny.
Jenny:​ Oh, yeah!
Kristin:​ With a New York Times write-up. Yes, when I'm not buying my practical
shoes for fighting at Aldo, you can find me—
Jenny:​ Ha!
Kristin:​ Over at kristinnoeline.com. You probably, by 2020, know how to spell it,
but it's K-R-I-S-T-I-N-N-O-E-L-I-N-E. That is also my Twitter handle, my Instagram
handle. You can find me in all of those places. And we are just rounding the bend to


the last episode, almost, of my My So-Called Life podcast with Joanna Robinson. We
just have, I think, three or four episodes left before we finish it, so you should come
on over. It's called The Boiler Room and we're @BoilerRoomCast, so join us for our
19-episode journey. And… yeah. I don't know! What else should we tell people? Oh,
how about where to find us?
Jenny:​ Well! Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram
@BufferingCast. Or you can drop us an email at
bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com. Or you can leave us a voice mail at area
code 216, that's Cleveland, 30-BUFFY.
Kristin:​ Hell yeah. We have merch, as always. You can find that—all of the Smash
the Demon Lizard Patriarchy, relevant yet again, this week… [laughs] at our store,
bufferingthevampireslayer.com. Just click on Shop. Also, we have some Buffy
watches and concerts coming up for our patrons. The next Buffy watch will be a
viewing of Scream 2! I'm very excited about it.
Jenny:​ Hell yeah!
Kristin:​ And you can find out all the information by clicking on Patreon from that
website. And… what else? Oh, rate and review us, if you haven't already. It helps
us.
Jenny:​ Rate and review!
Kristin:​ And if you already rated and reviewed us, go on over and rate and review
Angel on Top, because it helps people find us and them.
Jenny:​ Oh yeah! Is that it? Is that all the information they need?
Kristin:​ I think that's all the information.
Jenny:​ [takes deep breath] Until next time…
Both:​ Awwoooooooo!
Jenny:​ Yeah!
[Jenny performing “Shadow” off the album Songs from Season 5 by Buffering
the Vampire Slayer]
It’s a snake it’s a snake it’s a great big snake
It’s a snake it’s a snake it’s a great big snake


It’s a snake it’s a snake it’s a great big snake
It’s a snake it’s a snake it’s a great big snake
Snake!
Snake!
Snake!
Punch that snake up, punch it good
Punch it like you know you should
Punch that snake up til it’s dead
Cause you got people you need to protect
It’s a snake it’s a snake it’s a great big snake
It’s a snake it’s a snake it’s a great big snake
It’s a snake it’s a snake it’s a great big snake
It’s a snake it’s a snake it’s a great big snake
Snake!
Snake!
Snake!
Now listen - living in Sunnydale, you see some WILD things that you just
have to accept: giant praying mantises, cyborg demon hybrids, my sister’s a
mystical energy key for crying out loud! But you know what I can’t swallow? I
watched Glory put that cobra into that clay pot. Did that cobra have any
ARMS when you put it in there Glory I DON’T THINK SO where’d the FUCKIN
ARMS come from
Punch that snake up, punch it good
Punch it like you know you should
Punch that snake up til it’s dead
Cause you got people you need to protect
It’s a snake it’s a snake it’s a great big snake
It’s a snake it’s a snake it’s a great big snake
It’s a snake it’s a snake it’s a great big snake
It’s a snake it’s a snake it’s a great big snake
It’s a snake it’s a snake it’s a great big snake
It’s a snake it’s a snake it’s a great big snake
It’s a snake it’s a snake it’s a great big snake
It’s a snake it’s a snake it’s a great big snake


Snake!
Snake!
Snake!

