Buffering the Vampire Slayer
0.27: A Return

[CHIME]
Jenny: ​Hey Scoobies! Hello.
Kristin:​ Oh my gosh, hello. Hi! Hi, Jenny

Jenny:​ You might remember us? I’m Jenny.

Kristin:​ I’m Kristin. And… I said hello to you, but you know you left me hanging over
here —

Jenny:​ Well, hello. Helloooo! Hello.

Kristin:​ HI. So, it’s been a minute. And the math — the hellmath — there is, like, a
minute equals a month… um, maybe even a little longer than that, that we’ve been out
of your ears. We took this time — and I am sure that many of you already know this —
but we took this time off because we were specifically examining how the work that we
do ​here​ at Buffering can be better structured so that it is supporting and uplifting our
Black, our Indigenous and our POC listenership.

Jenny:​ Yeah. Hell yeah.

Kristin:​ First things first, because we do have a good amount we want to share with
you today — but before we do that we want to speak directly to our Black, our
Indigenous, and our POC listenership and say that we’re sorry for harm we have
allowed to happen in our shared community spaces. We are sorry for the many times


we have neglected BIPOC voices and experiences in our conversations here in the
podcast. And, we are also sorry for the loss of comforting content here in our feed
during our hiatus.

Jenny:​ Yeah, and as we continue through this message today, you’re gonna hear us
sharing information and sometimes we are going to be reading. You know, it’s really
important with what we’re talking about to deeply consider language, you know, these
are very nuanced and critical topics — racism, white privilege, and white supremacy —
it’s very serious. So, don’t be alarmed! We are not robots. We just want very much to be
clear in our language.

Kristin:​ Yeah. You know we — Jenny and I — are learning in this space and we’re
people who, like Jenny said… we talk off script. We don’t script our episodes. But here,
in this episode, and probably in future episodes there will be moments that are scripted
and also moments where we say to you very honestly, “We are going to engage in this
but we might mess up. We might fuck up, and we’re doing our best to learn in real time,
to talk in real time. But, if you hear us reading today or in the future, it is exactly what
Jenny said: it is us trying to have the respect that is owed to anti-racist topics, especially
when spoken about by two white creators.

Jenny:​ You might be wondering what we’ve been up to.

Kristin:​ Mhm.

Jenny:​ Let me illuminate for you that we've hired consultants, community members,
and pop culture experts to help us begin work on restructuring the podcast to have an
anti-racist base and to bring the work of becoming and staying anti-racist into our
community as a whole.


One of our goals is to undo some of the erasure that we have contributed to the
Buffyverse and to begin to make amends and reparations moving forward. This is
exciting and challenging work and the goal of improving our community spaces will
require an ongoing commitment.

Kristin:​ Yeah and this work, and the commitment to it, it starts with us — with Jenny
and I. And, in our own lives, we are examining the ways we have already failed BIPOC
communities, we are looking more closely at how white supremacist structures have
informed the way we intake the world around us and the way that we show up as
individuals and as creators. We’re gonna talk more about this in future episodes, but in
addition to the commitments we are making here today, Jenny and I have been talking
to each other about the environments where we were raised. Both of us went to schools
that were predominantly white; that we had white teachers for nearly our entire history
of education; the job opportunities that have been afforded to us because of the fact that
we are white, and on and on. We really want to delve into that more because the way
that those experiences frame how we take in ​everything​ including Buffy the Vampire
Slayer is really important.

We’re also learning how to better listen, how to step back more often, and how to hold
ourselves more accountable. You are going to hear more about those processes, and
more about our personal histories, as we move forward.
Jenny: ​Before we tell you more about returning to the podcast space, we want to
expand out on some of the changes we are committing to making here — and all of
these commitments, as they shift and grow, can also be found at
bufferingthevampireslayer.com/justkeepfighting

If you wanna know, if you want to remind yourself what we’re up to — it’s there for you.


Starting today, we will be opening up our Patreon-only community to Black and
Indigenous listeners at no cost in order to increase the perspectives in those spaces
and help bring in more listeners who may be living with economic disparities in their day
to day lives as a means of reparations. Some of you are already intimately familiar with
the concept and application of reparations, and others may hear that word here, in the
context of a Buffy the Vampire Slayer podcast, and wonder how it applies — how it
could possibly apply — to a space like ours. We are creators in a shared community
space, and we view our work as a microcosm of the larger world — what we do here, no
matter how large or small the scale, is impacted by structures of white supremacy and
influenced by our own lived experience as white creators. It also makes an impact in the
world around us. If you are someone who wants to know more about the concept and
application of reparations, we’ve added links to important articles for you over on that
landing page: ​bufferingthevampireslayer.com/justkeepfighting
Kristin:​ We are also going to be working with the current moderators in our Patreon
Facebook group and other community spaces to restructure the way that mods are
selected and oriented. Our focus here in this restructuring is to lessen harm in those
community spaces and to also be more prepared for ways to address harms when they
happen. One of our additional commitments in those spaces is ensuring that our senior
mods in those spaces have pre-existing experience with anti-racist work.

We’re also increasing the number of BIPOC voices in both the Buffering and Angel On
Top universes on an ongoing and regular basis — Black, Indigenous, and POC voices
and perspectives are immeasurably valuable to our collective experience of Buffy, of
Buffering and, by extension, to the way in which we apply those conversations and texts
to the world around us. It is important that we honor the value of those voices and give
space to them as we move forward — and you’re going to be seeing those changes
unfold over the next few episodes and definitely into the sixth season over here.


Jenny:​ Yeah. Yeah. We are working with BIPOC creators directly, with a focus on Black
and Indigenous POC creators, to curate and produce episodes specific to race in the
Buffy & Angelverse. Before we return on July 15th with our episodic conversation about
S5E18: Intervention, we will be releasing an episode — [laughs] a ​really​ amazing
episode — featuring LaToya Ferguson, Alanna Bennett, and Ira Madison III in an
over-arching conversation on the treatment of race in the Buffy & Angelverse as one of
our first actions toward reparations. Uh, the thing about that episode is ​fascinating​ and
really, just like, offers so much perspective that I didn’t have before, but it’s also so
fucking funny because LaToya, Alanna, and Ira are all hilarious and amazing.

Kristin:​ Fucking dream team. Truly, the dream team over there in that episode. I can’t,
I’m so — I’m so excited for everyone to hear their conversation.

Jenny:​ Yeah. Yeah. Buckle up, okay? [both laugh] Yes.

We know that we’ve missed and neglected many important moments in our five-season
journey through Buffy and this episode will be the first in an ongoing series featuring
many different BIPOC voices to continue these reparations. We know, of course, that as
two white cis women we will never have the full scope of understanding and perspective
that BIPOC creators do, which is why our voices are not gonna be present in this
Wednesday’s episode, and our commitment to being listeners alongside the larger
Buffering community begins here. That episode will be released this Wednesday, July
8th, and we are so, so excited for you guys to hear this conversation. So great.

Kristin:​ So excited. Um, and you know to this end — just in the past week, we’ve seen
Joss Whedon, who you may have heard of, being called out for being abusive and
unprofessional on the set of the Justice League, as well as perpetuating racism within
the film itself. When Joss was brought in to take the place of the original director, Zach
Snyder, he removed all 4 supporting characters of color and also removed large


amounts of Cyborg’s storyline. Cyborg was played by Black actor Ray Fisher. These
actions, paired with Ray Fisher very recently calling out unacceptable on set behavior
shows a consistent pattern of unexamined behavior that perpetuates white supremacy
culture. It’s asking us to more deeply examine the ways in which we may not be able to
see the racism and see the harm in media because it’s literally woven into the fabric of
the lore. It also calls us to consider how BIPOC viewers and listeners feel watching
racist plot threads, racist monsters of the week, or even racist fashion choices be
overlooked or blatantly ignored.

Jenny:​ Also, starting this month we are going to be hosting and facilitating group
discussions on the topic of becoming anti-racist. We have over 300 of you signed up
already to join us in that effort and our hope is to become a legion of Slayers who can
go out into the world and dust some racist structures.

Kristin:​ Fuck yeah.

Jenny:​ We are also creating a digital library of anti-racist websites, reading lists, and
social media accounts to follow to supplent the facilitated groups and for general
perusal. Once again, you can learn more about these efforts, and also sign up for our
reading + discussion group at bufferingthevampireslayer.com/justkeepfighting

Kristin: This is just the start, and we’re committing to all of these things and also to be
accountable, to be transparent, as we move forward. We’ve built out a feedback form
that is primarily for our BIPOC listenership to voice concerns as this work continues —
that form can be found at that website that we’ve talked about a few times,
/justkeepfighting. The form will be monitored by Jenny and I as well as a POC
consultant who will be working with us to help in the receiving and implementation of
this feedback. Working with a POC consultant is not intended to defer our responsibility
or accountability, it’s intended to create a safer space for our BIPOC listenership to


access with their concerns.

Jenny:​ And hey, hello. We also know these changes might be causing you to have
some very big feelings. Maybe you're wondering why Black and Indigenous listeners will
get free access to bonus materials that you pay for; maybe you are feeling that you've
already ​done​ the work to be aware of white privilege; maybe you're a Scooby of Color
and you are bracing for the aforementioned big feelings to come your way; maybe
you’re feeling overwhelmed or ashamed about the possibility that you've been being
racist without knowing it. All of those are all valid feelings and we are hopeful that the
resources we’ve already built out and are continuing to expand will help us navigate
them together.

Kristin:​ I don’t know if you’ve heard of Sunnydale? Have you heard of Sunnydale?

Jenny:​ Yeeessss.

Kristin:​ You have! Oh this is great I am so glad —

Jenny:​ It’s a beautiful town in Northern California.

Kristin:​ Yes, nothing ever, EVER happens that is bad in Sunnydale. Listen. [laughs] In
Sunnydale, vampires and demons are running up and down every single alleyway,
there was a nightclub for minors that also was frequented by, like school librarians?!
Kids would just straight up go missing — a band of high school students ran around
town all night wielding magic and swords and the high school sat on the actual
HELLMOUTH. But no one — or virtually no one — seemed to notice. Most of
Sunnydale just accepted the weird occurrences, the implausible experiences. Even
Joyce knew, deep down, that Buffy was up to something, but it was easier to just ignore


the uncomfortable truth. It wasn't until graduation that the whole town was forced to
really reckon with the ugly underpinnings of Sunnydale.

The United States of America? Is fucking Sunnydale. Wild, terrible things go on
everyday and we have been socialized to explain them away or to not even see them at
all. The white cis heteropatriarchy — Jenny you’re gonna have to expand the jingle.
[laughs]

Jenny:​ [laughs] It’s gonna be a long-ass jingle.
Kristin:​ [laughs] The white cis heteropatriarchy imposed by colonialism ​is​ the Watcher's
Council. Forever setting arbitrary rules that have harmed vulnerable populations for
centuries - and those vulnerable populations and a few allies were the only ones fighting
and dying. Finally, the world is waking up. FInally the world us saying enough is
enough. Like the Scoobies, a coalition of different people have come together to defy
the status quo and destroy their local Hellmouths around the world. But none of the
work in real life or Sunnydale comes easy. Buffy had to learn to trust and share her
power, Willow had to stop fearing her power, Faith had to learn to stop internalizing the
way others saw her (except for Joyce because she always loved Faith… but that’s
another story for another day). Dawn had to learn to work within the limitations of what
she had. And for our community here, it is reckoning with the harm that has been
caused, it’s examining the ways in which we benefit or are disadvantaged because of
race and maybe the scariest and most painful thing of all: it’s learning to divest from the
harmful structure of white supremacy that's been woven into every facet of the United
States of America and the rest of the colonized world.

Jenny:​ Phew.
Kristin:​ Right?


Jenny:​ We commit to prioritizing the BIPOC community here at Buffering the Vampire
Slayer in all the ways we know how, and all the ways we are committed to learning.

We stand with you in the fight to take down the biggest of the Big Bads.

And we’ll end here by saying -- "From now on, every scooby in the world who might be
a Slayer, will be a Slayer. Every one of you who could have the power, will have the
power. Can stand up, will stand up. Slayers, every one of us. Make your choice. Are you
ready to be strong?”

[CHIME]

