Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 4:03: The Harsh Light of Day
Kristin:​ Today's episode is brought to you by Mack Weldon. Mack Weldon is
a premium men's essentials brand that believes in smart design, premium
fabrics and simple shopping. I will tell you what though Jenny absolutely
loves Mack Weldon's t-shirts and we're both obsessed with their sweatshirts.
So I'm gonna go out on a limb here and say that this brand rules for all
genders. In addition to the softest shirts you've ever worn Mack Weldon also
makes underwear. If you don't like your first pair you keep it and they'll
refund you no questions asked. They make socks and swimwear and they
have a new line of incredible bags, wallets and hats.
I have my eyes on the weekender bag personally, I'm not gonna lie. The
quality matches everything else they make and it's one of the most
functional bags I've ever seen. For 20% off your first order visit
mackweldon.com that's m-a-c-k-w-e-l-d-o-n.com and enter promo code
“buffy” at checkout
[Chime]
Kristin:​ Hello there Scoobies, Kristin here to tell you that before we get into
today's episode I have a few announcements. First, we mentioned a couple
of weeks ago in the intro that we'd have a few structure changes this
summer as Jenny and I journey through our separation.
And as such this week's episode, Harsh light of day, is going to be hosted by
myself, and the always brilliant Joanna Robinson, writer at ​Vanity Fair,​ host
of many podcasts, massive Buffy fan and one of our favorite guests of all
time. Jenny, of course, will still be with us for the song at the end, plus she's
coming at us hot hot hot with a sexual tension award segment within the
episode.
Jenny will also be guesting on next week's ​Angel on top​ crossover episode,
In the dark. Then the two of us will be back at it again in two weeks when
we bring you Halloween in July and so much Anya with Fear itself. Also,
speaking of Joanna Robinson if you're a Patreon supporter, you got a very
special bonus episode last week where Joanna and I discussed Living


conditions​. ​Joanna refers to it as the alt track of Living conditions​, ​which I
love. You can find that by going to bufferingthevampireslayer.com and
clicking on patreon.
A couple of important event announcements, first, in just three days on June
23rd, Saturday, this Saturday! I host on of my favorite events of the whole
year, the All-ages Pride party that I do in collaboration with Autostraddle​.
This year we are sponsored by The Tegan and Sara Foundation​, w
​ e're​ g
​ oing
to have music from Emily Wells, spoken word from the slam team at Urban
Word​ i​ n New York City.
It's totally free, it's from 1 o'clock until 3 o'clock at Housing Works bookstore
in New York City, so I hope to see some of your beautiful faces there. Also,
on July 8th, Jenny and I will be doing a live taping of Beer bad at Littlefield
in Brooklyn. Those tickets sold out as of yesterday, which is very exciting,
because that means a lot of you are going to be with us on July 8th.
But for those of you who didn't get tickets stay tuned, we'll let you know if
any additional tickets are released or if there are door tickets that will be
released the day of the show. To those of you who do have tickets please
note the first 100 of you will have seats, the rest of you will be standing
room. We cannot wait to see all of your faces.
Okay, I think that's all I have for you, so without further ado let's get into
Harsh light of day with special guest host Joanna Robinson.
[Theme song]
Kristin:​ Hello and welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer​ ​a podcast where
we will be watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the vampire
slayer,​ o
​ ne by one, spoiler free, I'm Kristin RussoJoanna:​ And I'm special guest Joanna Robinson!
Kristin:​ Yeahaha!
[both laughing]


Kristin:​ This week we are talking about season 4 episode 3 The Harsh Light
of Day,​ ​which is a Spike episode, which is really why you're here Joanna, I
mean, let's be real.
[both laughing]
Kristin:​ Stay tuned at the end of this podcast every week for an original
song written by Jenny Owen Youngs and I recapping the Buffy episode we
are discussing.
Joanna:​ The Harsh Light of Day​ ​was written by Jane Espenson and directed
by James A. Contner and it originally aired on October 19th 1999.
Kristin:​ Yes, and this is the one where as Buffy gets to know a charming
student named Parker, Spike searches for a ring that according to legend
makes the wearer invincible.
Joanna:​ Oh Parker, you charmer!
Kristin:​ [laughs] Ugh, I wish that I had a memory of Parker before this
episode so that I would know how I felt about him, because now everything
that comes out of his mouth just makes me want to murder him.
Joanna:​ Yes.
Kristin:​ [laughing] You know?
Joanna: ​True. So true.
Kristin:​ [laughing] Right? There's a lot of - we won't jump right into the
jingle- but there's a lot of the fucking patriarchy, I think, hanging out here in
episode 3 of season 4.
Joanna:​ Yeah it’s a pretty rough one I think you texted me after you were
done with your- what did you say? Like “WHAT AN EPISODE” in all caps
right?
Kristin:​ Yes! Cause it is!


Joanna:​ It is.
Kristin:​ As I took my notes I was like “oh shit! right” and I just watched it
not even that long ago but I forgot how many things I was gonna all caps
take notes in you know? [laughs]
Joanna:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ Actually my very first note Joanna is in all caps and it is “DEVON IS
IN A BELLY SHIRT” [laughs]
Joanna: ​Umm… what is my Devon shirt note? it just says “DEVON SHIRT”
all caps.
[both laughing]
Kristin: ​Ok so Dingoes ate my baby is playing at The Bronze and up until
this episode I’ve had sort of not very many feelings about Devon you know,
I’m like that’s Devon he sings in Dingoes ate my baby.
But I was sort of appalled by his shirt and then immediately attracted to him
in like all at one moment [laughs] It was really intense. [Joanna laughs] It
was a really intense experience for me so I just want you to know that I am
apparently attracted to dudes in bands wearing belly shirts.
Joanna:​ It’s just such a belly shirt, it’s a crazy belly shirt cause it’s like
Devon doesn’t seem to be the kind of guy who would wear a belly shirt at all
and it’s not terribly sexy, it’s weirdly sized, I don’t know but you loved it so…
a lid for every pot and a belly shirt for every Buffy watcher.
Kristin:​ [laughs] Yeah, I think that the 90s really got into my head a little
nugget of that hipline, you know the hipline in the 90s how that was a real
thing? Abercrombie and Fitch happened and dudes would wear their pants
low and we were taught as a society that something sexy- it was like when
ankles were really sexy, in the 90s it was the weird hipline that happens on
some dudes. So I think it just triggered that marketing materials in my
head.
Joanna:​ The thirst trap I believe is what some people call it.


[both laugh]
Kristin:​ Yes, exactly.
Joanna:​ It’s so funny because I know this took place in ‘99, fall of ‘99. The
90s are winding down in this episode but a lot of the fashion, and I know
that I’m not your fashion expert but a lot of the fashion in this episode- my
notes just scream “so oughties, so oughties, so oughties” which is like- the
oughties are a terrible word but so 2000s.
Kristin:​ Yes, also I’ve never heard the oughties but I like it and I feel like
it’s dangerous because are you saying the oughties or are you saying the
eighties really oddly. [laughs] Which one is it?
Joanna:​ Or the naughties. The naughty oughties.
Kristin:​ That’s actually right where this falls is in the naughties. So speaking
of naughties- no that’s a horrible transition but I went there so we’re doing
it. Parker is playing some pool at the Bronze and Buffy is watching him in
the mirror which is really very fun because she can finally see a boy she
likes in a mirror, how novel.
Joanna:​ I know, it’s good for stalking.
[both laugh]
Joanna: ​Like light, gentle stalking, yeah yeah yeah.
Kristin:​ Totally and Willow has this amazing line where she’s like “Buffy’s
having lusty wrong feelings” but then goes out of her way to be like “they’re
lusty but actually they’re not wrong at all Buffy, own your sexuality, your
sexy feelings are good”.
Joanna:​ I don’t know, this is [sighs] this is such an interesting episode
because it is both like this is another sex morality episode. I like that I’m
here for the sex morality episodes for Buffy.
Kristin:​ I think they go arm in arm with Spike episodes, there must be
some kind of overlap.


Joanna: ​But yeah, this is a harsh- well harsh light of day, harsh lessons
about sex episode but also there’s a lot of sex positivity in this episode along
with sex negativity but it just feels like it really changes the whole
conversation around sex which makes sense given that this is for a lot of
kids going from high school to college completely reframes your attitudes
around sex, right?
And so the spaces this episode makes for some sex positivity along with
some of these are the pitfalls of sex and by pitfalls I just sort of mean
emotional fallout ramifications. So this is Willow just being like yeah Buffy
come on you dated this shitty tortured vampire for so long, date Parker
cause Willow doesn’t know that Parker is worse than Angel.
But she’s like date Parker, he’s such a nice- he’s a human boy and it’ll be
fun, you guys can have sex and it’ll be great and we’ll talk about it, you
know. Willow’s trying for sex and dating positivity here.
Kristin:​ Totally, totally, also “he’s a human boy” is just a really great
sentence. “He’s a human boy, date him Buffy, it’ll be good for everybody”.
Joanna: ​It’s a low, low bar to clear but Parker clears it, technically a human
Parker.
Kristin:​ [laughs] Also Parker- and there’s a lot of these little moments so
probably I’m not gonna call all of them out but this moment that Parker has
at the end of this scene where he’s like “You might not be safe walking
home” as a line to get in Buffy’s pants, it was really upsetting to me. This
idea of I’m a dude and I’ll protect you but really my motivation is to sleep
with you, I didn’t like it, I don’t like it.
Joanna:​ Guess what? It gets worse. [laughs]
Kristin:​ Spoiler alert, it gets so much fucking worse. Lots of all caps, I
warned everybody- actually I do have all caps coming up for the next
moment in the show which probably you know what my all caps are about
Joanna.
They’re about Harmony and I just wrote “OMG OMG HARMONY YES” because
I am so thrilled- I think if you’re watching the series for the first time maybe


it was a little confusing about how enthusiastic I was about Harmony. I
couldn’t keep it to myself, now you’re getting why. This was in my brain the
whole time, Harmony is fucking back and Harmony is a fucking vampire,
also Harmony is fucking Spike, so many things.
Joanna:​ Yes, vampire Harmony is the best and, I mean it’s funny because
your enthusiasm for Cordelia in the first three seasons, and we do miss her
so, but your enthusiasm for Cordelia is so fun for me because I’m wondering
if people watching it for the first time are having that experience with
Cordelia because when I watched it for the first time as a teen I was not
really into Cordelia at all.
And then as an adult I’m like Cordelia rules though [laughs] and so maybe
people thought your enthusiasm for Harmony was a splash over from
Cordelia but no Harmony is awesome in her own right, especially in her new
life as a vampire so here we go vampire Harmony versus Willow and Oz.
[laughs]
Kristin: ​God and her first line before she vamps is you know her and Willow
are being like oh, haven’t seen you how was your summer and they talk
about graduation for a half a second and Harmony just says “big snake,
huh?” [both laugh] which I love.
Joanna:​ It’s so good.
Kristin:​ And also Harmony in this episode, this is the first time that I had
this connection in my mind but Harmony in this episode, vamp Harmony,
reminds me a little bit of Donna Martin but vamped. If Donna Martin from
90210 was vamped I feel like she would have a similar attitude to Harmony
or similar speak, the way that Harmony speaks reminds me of Donna Martin.
Joanna:​ Yeah, if Donna Martin graduated, no she didn’t graduate don’t
worry.
Kristin:​ Spoilers for 90210, she fucking graduates.
Joanna:​ Yeah, Donna Martin graduates and goes to college and is a
vampire. Though Harmony is obviously not enrolled in classes. It’s a shame,


she should be. Maybe she’d take some French and that would make her
happier.
Kristin:​ [sighs] Yes, right?
Joanna:​ But yes Harmony versus Willow and Oz and Willow and Oz make it
out but barely and Harmony talks about her boyfriend. And I wonder- I’m
just so curious if people watching this show for the first time who know the
rules of storytelling, so know that when Harmony says my boyfriend, my
boyfriend, my boyfriend it’s probably gonna be someone either interesting or
we know but if anyone saw the Spike twist coming cause it’s so good.
Kristin:​ Yeah, I can’t imagine- only the very smartest of the people because
my brain would not have gotten there, you know I didn’t see Spike coming
back. Although I guess Spike is in the credits so maybe the really intuitive
people were like maybe this is why Spike is in the credits.
Joanna:​ Yeah, I was about to say if you saw James Marsters name in the
credits maybe- ‘cause he’s not a series regular yet right?
Kristin:​ Right.
Joanna:​ He and- I guess I shouldn’t say who else but anyway yeah. I used
to play that game a lot with Buffy and other shows that I watched
obsessively before I became a tv critic and everything was already
pre-spoiled for me but back in the days you could get a little spoiled by
whose name is in the opening credits.
So watching a Buffy I would get really excited if I saw Danny Strong- I’m
like ooh! Jonathan’s in this episode! In the guest starring crawl at the
beginning.
Kristin:​ Totally.
Joanna:​ So yeah, Spike’s here.
Kristin:​ Spike’s here, also just a shout out to- if you missed the way that
Harmony runs offscreen after she does her “I have a boyfriend and he’s


gonna be mad” I suggest you go back and watch her turn around and
jauntily run off in her little outfit cause it’s good, it’s real good.
Joanna:​ Yes, yes.
Kristin:​ So… [sighs] Parker. Parker loves Buffy’s fucking scar, of course
Parker loves a scar, of course Parker loves anything that’s gonna get Buffy
to be into Parker. I enjoy the fact that Buffy credits the scar to an angry
puppy because I feel she did not lie. [laughs] I feel like that was the truth. If
I could describe Angel in any way right, an angry puppy.
Joanna:​ And that’s something that goes forward in the fandom, people call
Angel “angry puppy” all the time so, yeah.
Kristin:​ And also Willow called Angel “puppy” in the alternate universe so…
Joanna: ​Oh that’s true, that’s true, that’s true.
Kristin:​ A lot of overlap here with this little tiny moment and then of course
there’s this amazing Angel reference “don’t you just hate guys who are all
dark and broody and give me love” and it’s like yeah okay we get it.
Joanna:​ Yeah, Parker is like this human and slightly shittier- If you listen to
the bonus version of Living Conditions, the alt-track of Living Conditions that
you and I recorded I think I pointed out that the actor who plays Parker
looks enough like Angel- he looks like Xander and he looks like Angel. He’s
on that spectrum and I think that that’s important.
Not just that Buffy has a type necessarily but just this idea of Parker as a
human Angel counterpart. I keep wanting to get ahead of everything but
what this episode does to mirror Becoming part one and two, what it does to
humanize- anchor that in a human experience you know is really interesting.
Kristin:​ Right, right, I know, this whole time I’m thinking is Buffy ever
gonna get to sleep with somebody where [laughs] something horrible
doesn’t happen right after? This is like a one two punch, it’s one thing for it
to have happened once but for it to happen again is pretty rough. Buffy has
a lot of shit to work through, as if she didn’t already she’s the chosen one,
give her a break! So let’s go to Giles’ house shall we?


Joanna:​ Yeah! I love it.
Kristin:​ Fucking Xander and Giles sorting books is great, it makes me very
happy [laughs]
Joanna:​ It’s delightful that Giles is paying Xander whatever, a pittance, to
sort some books and I just love- you know sometimes you get fun little
pairings on this show that you didn’t know you wanted and needed more of
and I’m like yeah, I do want more of Giles and Xander together.
Kristin:​ Yeah, college really opens up some possibilities for us- some that
we’ve seen and some that we have yet to see that I’m very excited about.
[laughs]
Joanna:​ Yes. Yes. And then we get the return of everyone’s favorite
vengeance demon, right?
Kristin:​ [sighs] She’s back.
Joanna:​ I mean, Harmony and Anya in the same episode, come on!
Kristin:​ I know, it’s a lot to take and Anya fucking- this moment between
Anya and Giles is so brief but it’s so incredible the way they’re just glaring at
each other and not saying too much but hating each other so very much
about that whole necklace ordeal. It’s just really special.
Joanna:​ Well and this also feels like, I don’t know if you agree with me, I
feel like this is a big retcon for this character. The character really changes
between when we meet her in season three and when we meet her in
season four and I don’t mind it at all. I really like both versions of Anya.
I don’t think there’s a good explanation for it but I like this version of Anya
and I remember I was trying to convince a friend of mine who was really
into Star Trek to watch Buffy when we were in college. So I think it was like
season five or something like that and I was telling her about all the
characters.
And I was like well there’s one character who doesn’t understand the way
the world works so has to have things explained to her. And she’s like oh,


the Data, that’s the Data character and I was like yeah. So I always think of
Anya and you get it in this episode as someone who’s like I don’t understand
how you humans function, would you explain it to me sort of thing. Does
that make sense?
Kristin:​ Yeah, totally. I’ve always sort of understood her shift but maybe my
timeline is off. My shift for her was the moment that she went from demon
to human but I think maybe right, in season four it gets very, very extreme
where she really becomes, not the Amelia Bedelia, but of that way of taking
everything very literally and having to unpack situations that she doesn’t
understand apart from their face value as presented.
Joanna:​ I love that I was like let me give you my Data reference and you
were like let me give you an Amelia Bedelia reference.
Kristin:​ [laughs] I think it really sums us up Joanna.
Joanna:​ Yeah, I will be really interested to hear what your listeners think,
like who the Anya character represents for them. But Anya is here and this is
so clever, it ties in so well to the theme of the episode because I also
watched this episode recently and then just rewatched it. But rewatching it
again I was like you know, she’s talking to Xander about expectations and
hopes of relationships because she doesn’t understand how things work.
And this is what I was talking about when I was talking about sex positivity
because she’s like I had my dream and in my dream you’re naked
sometimes or whatever, right? And I feel like that’s a brave step forward for
Buffy where there was good sex and bad sex in the high school years but it
was all either demure or someone was like a snack maybe like ooh totally
snackable but this whole I’ve had naked dreams about you and I’m just
gonna talk about it right here, right now feels like a progression.
Kristin:​ Yeah, it’s also really brilliantly done, I think, because Anya is like
you said so vulnerable without even understanding that she’s being
vulnerable. Bold without understanding that she’s being bold and even
Xander in this exchange- or no, I guess it’s the next time we see the two of
them together, sort of makes a comment about how this is even more
romantic, despite her forwardness, despite her bluntness, her boldness feels
more romantic, more emotionally connected to him than of course Faith did.


And it also sets up the fact that a woman taking power and saying what she
wants can be very enjoyable and wonderful and good and it doesn’t always
have to be set up in this dynamic which [sighs] we’ll go down the Buffy
wormhole as the episode unfolds but yeah I think it’s a good counterpoint
and super positive.
Joanna:​ Yeah, absolutely. I mean as positive as it can get for this episode.
[laughs]
Kristin:​ Right, I mean yeah. Within the context of the episode, within the
context of 1999, I’m here for it. So… what happens next? Parker tries to kiss
Buffy and at least is deterred in this one moment because Oz and Willow
come to tell them, well to tell Buffy that Harmony is back and Harmony is a
vampire. Which this scene, I had a question about for you and college. Did
you lock your dorm room door in college?
Joanna: ​Yes!
Kristin:​ You did?
Joanna:​ Yes.
Kristin:​ We never locked- we never closed our door. Our door was just
always wide open and so when I saw Buffy using her key I was like did I
even have a key? Was that something that- I’m sure we did but we just
never used it.
Joanna:​ What kind of school did you go to?
Kristin:​ Well I went to a billion schools but the one that is rooted in my
freshman and sophomore years and the one I have the most dorm
memories from is SUNY Binghamton so it was a state school. And I lived in a
big dorm with I don’t even know how many people were in my dorm but
several people on a floor, the floor shared bathrooms, the whole thing.
Certainly we probably should have been locking our doors but I was like
seventeen slash eighteen years old so I just didn’t think about it. [laughs]


Joanna:​ Yeah, I went to a UC, not UC Sunnydale unfortunately, and we had
to use a swipe card to get into the building.
Kristin:​ Oh, yeaaaaah.
Joanna:​ But anyone could catch the door behind you and one bit of crime
that happened- I’m just gonna talk about it because it’s my favorite bit of
audacious crime I can remember. I went to UC Davis which is a huge bikingeveryone was a biker, not a motorcycle biker like a biker biker.
Kristin:​ A hippy biker. [laughs]
Joanna:​ So there’s bikes everywhere and my freshman year, it was move
out day and so everyone has moving trucks and stuff like that. So someone
just rented a small U-Haul, pulled it up to the back of the dorm and actually
literally picked up full bike racks.
Kristin:​ [gasps]
Joanna:​ And threw the racks with all the bikes into the back of the moving
truck and just stole so many bikes.
Kristin:​ Oh my god!
Joanna:​ It’s like you kind of admire the audacity of the crime even though
it’s terrible.
Kristin:​ Really dramatic and I kind of like it. I mean, sorry to all of you who
lost your bikes in the 90s? No, when were you in college? In the aughites?
Joanna: ​The aughts, the aughties. [laughs]
Kristin:​ But props to that person for ingenuity and boldness.
Joanna:​ Right, because move out week, so no one’s gonna look twice at a
moving truck and then they just sort of went for it. Hit a bunch of dorms
around campus, it was pretty amazing. Anyway, yes, long story short I did
lock my door.


Kristin:​ But did you lock your bike? If you did it literally didn’t matter
because the whole thing got taken. [both laugh]
Joanna:​ It didn’t matter anyway.
Kristin:​ So, this is when we find out who fucking Harmony is dating, and it’s
fucking Spike. And this reveal, I know it’s whatever but I’m really into it. The
fact that it’s like we’re underground and then there’s this man and he’s
sinewy and working on this wall or whatever he’s doing and he’s got this
cloth over his head and she pulls it off to reveal that platnium hair that we
know so well and it’s fucking Spike.
Joanna:​ You know I love Spike. Sinewy is so perfect, Marsters is always
sinewy, even now on Runaways he’s a sinewy fellow. Yeah, I wrote camera
pan down, cause it starts on the street level and then goes literally
underground, it’s so cheesy and bad and good. And of course it’s a super
cheesy, dramatic reveal and I’m here for it.
Oh sorry, I wanna hop back really quickly because Willow and Oz are telling
Buffy that Harmony’s back, Harmony’s a vampire, and [laughs] you know I
like to stop and pause for the Oz moments so take an Oz pause. A real quick
Oz pause to notice him first tending to the wound on Willow’s neck, awww.
And then he’s talking about how Devon dated Harmony and he says that
Harmony’s too flakey for Devon and then he says “stop and marvel at the
concept”. So just an Oz pause for that line which is a great Oz line and then
we can return to sinewy Spike underground.
Kristin:​ I love “Oz pause” you know, it’s just really good, it deserves it’s
own little jingle. The Oz pause.
Joanna:​ I know, I’m sorry that it took two seasons to get here or whatever
but here we are.
Kristin:​ [laughs] So yeah, I mean, I’m exploring my feelings for Spike this
time around because my feelings for Spike were very clear to me after my
first viewing of the series which is I really like Spike, Spike is my favorite
character, I wanna make out with Spike. I really want Spike to throw ​me​ up
against walls, these are my feelings and I can’t help them.


Joanna:​ Right in front of Ryan?
Kristin:​ And I’m really into Harmony and Spike, I mean obviously it gets
more problematic as the episode goes on but in the outset their dynamic
where Spike is angry and Harmony is into it and then Spike is into Harmony
being into it, I’m here for it, I like it. I feel like she really plays off of his
energy in really good ways. We turn a corner later but for a moment I’m
here with it, I’m very happy about it.
Joanna:​ [sighs] I love Spike, you know I love Spike, we love Spike, some of
your listeners may not love Spike and I respect that stance but I love him so
much. I think he’s both dreamy and hilarious and that’s a rare combination
so there we go. You listeners are welcome to psycho-analyze me and talk to
me about why I’m messed up for loving Spike, but I do.
Kristin:​ And that’s how I’m progressing through the series this time,
watching myself watch Spike and being like what is going on with you? to
myself, what’s going on here? Why are you so into it? I don’t know and the
dichotomy of Harmony and Spike too where Harmony is calling him “blondie
bear” and just saying these things that are so anti-Spike but that you see
her doing it on purpose. It’s not even like she’s just saying the things, she’s
saying them because she knows it’s gonna make him angry and she likes
when he’s angry cause then they fuck, you know? It’s like this whole game.
Joanna:​ Yes, I don’t know if only terribly sad english majors play this game
[laughs] like myself, but there’s a game one can play when one goes to see
Shakespeare at the theater. You go see a Shakespeare play and you’re like
alright, that’s a line that people quote, that’s a line that people quote, that’s
a line- and you sort of rack ‘em up.
Even in plays you don’t expect would have so many lines that people use or
have been used to name books or plays or whatever it is. My english teacher
in high school sort of started me on that and that’s just a thing I do is keep
tally of the notable lines. And I would say “angry puppy” and “blondie bear”
are two iconic Buffy phrases that come from this episode.
Kristin:​ Yes, also I like that the game is just keeping track of the lines.
Joanna:​ That’s it. There’s no winner. [both laugh] Only losers in this game.


Kristin:​ I was waiting for and then after you keep track of them all you do
this thing and then suddenly realized the whole game is just noting the lines.
Joanna:​ [laughs] Oh my god, I wanna go back to Amelia Bedelia jokes.
Kristin:​ [laughs] Ohhhhh, okay so… here we are if we’re ready to go to this
party where fucking Biff Naked is just playing this party at college.
Joanna:​ This is very Peach Pit after dark, that’s another 90s 90210
reference where super famous bands would just play the Peach Pit and
you’re like okay… The Cranberries are here, sure they are. Anyway, Biff
Naked is playing a UC Sunnydale party, totally normal.
Kristin:​ Yeah, and obviously now we’re in season four of Buffy so Buffy’s
doing very well for itself so of course we’re gonna start to see bigger names
playing, not even the Bronze now, they just straight up play college parties.
I think she has pretty great features on the episode too. We hear two of her
songs, one of them very clearly the full chorus and yeah.
So Spike and Harmony are here, they’re picking up some dinner because
Harmony did win the argument which I like. She was like take me out and
Spike did it.
Joanna:​ [sighs] Yeah, she did a little Rent, a little Daphne Rutabaga “take
me out tonight” and yeah…
Kristin:​ Wow, coming out strong with the fucking references this episode
Joanna. You’re really hitting me in all the feels.
Joanna:​ If I didn’t get you with my great Shakespeare game or my bike
larceny then surely I will get you with some Rent lyrics. Anyway, yes they
are at the party and it’s great because there’s always just this thing between
Buffy and Spike as far as I’m concerned.
I consider them like a will they won’t they, and what they do in this episode
is hardcore judge each other’s dates. [both laugh] He’s like “So, Parker?”
She’s like “Harmony, really?” This is some romcom shit is what this is.


Kristin:​ A hundred percent, also a note that I had was not only are they
assessing each others current dates but they also use each other's exes as a
fighting tool, both of them in different points of this episode. Of course Buffy
going in this scene with Dru, this is later after they leave the party but she
uses Dru as “she left you, blah, blah, blah”
And then fucking Harmony behind the fight is perfect Harmony, “she left him
for a fungus demon”. [laughs] And he’s already annoyed and then again
perfect Harmony “when we find the gem of Amara you’ll be sorry” and he’s
like “God ​damn​ it Harmony!”
Joanna:​ Harmony- Okay once again I know that Kate Leth is on this episode
but this is the first Harmony outfit of many. They’re all great but this is the
Harmony look that I was like this is every college party that I went to cause
I was in college at this time and so she’s got a tube top on with an
asymmetrical strap and then her hair is sort of down but braided back and
very hardcore reined in.
And she just looks like- I don’t know what it is about the early aughts but it’s
like clean but club-y but soft but modern and she’s got her makeup done a
little differently and I was just like yep here it is, here is the aughts on
Harmony’s body, you know?
Kristin:​ Totally, it’s like you’re wearing makeup but ​are you?
​ That’s the
early aughts, the very nude lipstick and you’re kinda dewy. [laughs] Drew
Barrymore I think, pulled it off really well in the early aughts. I think Drew
Barrymore was a high contender for that dewy look.
Joanna:​ Yes. Dewy Barrymore, that was her- sorry.
Kristin:​ Dewy. Fucking Barrymore. Great, great, great.
Joanna:​ Yeah, so they have the fight outside but it should be noted that in
order to get to that Spike just runs. Like just runs out of that party you
know, classic I’m gonna start talking about something else and then no I’m
just gonna throw this passed out teenager at you. [both laugh]


Kristin:​ Yeah, It’s good. I’m here for it. Soooo… we go to a scene in
Xander’s room where we finally find out why he’s squeezing the juice box in
the credits.
Joanna:​ [laughs] It’s a great little metaphor. Good ole sqeezin’ the juice
box. Yeah, and it should be noted that Xander is decorating his room with a
disco ball, just fyi, brightening up that basement room with a disco ball so
that’s our Xander.
Kristin​: [laughs] Oh, that is our Xander.
Joanna​: I actually- I know you guys get some guff from your listeners for
being too hard on Xander. I am certainly, often, very hard on Xander. I have
a lot of soft, sympathetic feelings for Xander in this episode, to be honest
with you.
Kristin​: Yeah, same.
Joanna​: So, his first time was terrible with Faith.
Kristin​:[agrees]
Joanna​: And just as someone who doesn't know what to do but probably
genuinely does have good intentions, at least in this context, but just
doesn't know what to do. That's my take on Xander in this whole sticky
situation.
Kristin​: Yeah, yeah he's- also, “sticky situation” I see you, I see youJoanna:​ Yup, mhm.
Kristin​: But yeah he’s really, he's trying to do right by himself too. Anya is
being very clear about what she’s after [laughs] so completely clear. Is she
wearing nothing under that dress, right? That’s what we’re to believe? That
she’s just wearing that dress and there’s zero things underneath it as it
drops to the floor.


Joanna​: Yeah and its, okay Im gonna- this is a sex episode so let’s just talk
about this- there’s something even more naked about a woman who still has
her shoes on, is that true?
Kristin​: Oooh! Yes, yes.
Joanna​: Yeah, she drops the dress but she still has on - I think they’re
platform wedges because it was 1999- like she still has her shoes on and
that just feels more naked to me, so...
Kristin​: I agree it's also- I mean it’s pretty sexy. I wanna say that human
beings and the way our desires work is really funny. Because like somebody
standing in their heels with no clothes on is pretty sexy in my brain.
Somebody standing in their socks with no clothes on, immediately not sexy
[laughs] It's just like, change the fabric, change the texture, change the
height and then we’re in a totally different place, ya know? But, luckily, Anya
was not just wearing socks, Anya was wearing some heels. [laughs]
Joanna​: Yes. [laughs]
Kristin​: But yeah, I mean, I think Xander has one Xander-y comment,
which is as he's trying to explain his feelings about sexual intercourse and
how he wants it to mean something and what have you, where he does, you
know, hit the Xander bell and say “I’m actually turning into a woman as I
say this but-” which is a whomp whomp for Xander but its theJoanna​: Not great.
Kristin​: Not great but it’s, I think, at least as far as I witnessed in this
episode, it was really the only moment where I was like “okay, c’mon man,
you’re so close, you’re so close to just nailing this thing”. And by “nailing this
thing” I mean like smashing the patriarchy, not Anya. [both laugh]
Joanna​: No! I don’t think anyone who knows you thought you meant Anya.
Kristin​: Just, god forbid. [laughs] Let me be clear. So, in the middle of this,
wonderful Xander/Anya scene, Giles and Buffy get on the phone. And it’s
really not super notable, it’s just Giles is like “It’s a myth, it’s like the Holy


Grail, it’s not a real thing…” But I just wrote a little note, because everytime
Giles gets super excited about history or a book, I enjoy it.
And he just has this moment where he’s reading the book and he realizes
that it’s the tenth century and he didn’t know it was the tenth century and
he’s like “Oooh! The tenth century?” as he’s reading the book which is a nice
little book-y Giles moment, you know?
Joanna​: I love you Giles. Also, well my note here is “Payphone!” cause I
just get excited everytime someone uses a payphone. [laughs]
Kristin​: Were payphones- so, I don’t remember our exact age difference,
but are you somebody who has used payphones in your life?
Joanna​: [laughs] Yes, I’ve used a payphone in my life, yes.
Kristin​: Was it a part of your- payphones were a very large part of my
existence, especially in New York because I remember being very upset
anytime I had to use a payphone in New York because I always felt like it
was covered in the worst things in the universe and so I would try to hear in
the thing and talk in the thing without them touching my skin, you know?
[laughs]
Joanna​: Yes, and you always had to have change and it was like a whole
thing of a pursuit of change if you needed to contact someone and also, you
know, Buffy the Vampire Slayer, one of the most iconic lines is “If the
apocalypse comes, beep me” so you have your like pager, someone pages
you, and then you have to go find a payphone and call them.
But payphones are not so far in the distant past that your younger listeners
won't know what they are, especially if they listen to Serial, the podcast
where payphones played a big role. But, eventually payphones will become
one of those things where its like watching a movie and someone’s like
“Operator Klondike 555” you know, like what is this weird way we used to
communicate? [both laugh]
Kristin:​ Oh, wow. It’s so true.


Joanna:​ Yeah, so you see a payphone and you just sort of “oh…” and
they’re almost all gone now and there’s a slight classism to that you know
what I mean? cause a phone call, brace yourself, used to cost a dime. But
people who couldn’t- I guess a lot of people could afford a cell phone but not
everyone could afford a cell phone.
And so the fact that pay phones have been all but removed from the streets
means that a population that can’t access telecommunication that way is
kind of cut off from it and that’s something I think about, that’s just a little
bummer I thought I’d drop in the middle of this episode so…
Kristin:​ Yeah, no I’m here, I’m here for the bummers because it’s true. It’s
like pay phones were accessible to anyone with a quarter. You just needed a
quarter and then you could make a call. They were universally accessible
and cell phones are of course not, not at all.
Joanna:​ So that’s your pay phone detour, back to Anya and Xander.
[laughs] Or whatever comes next.
Kristin:​ Another relic of the 90s, well that’s a very rude way of referring to
Antonio Banderas but I just- [laughs] But like… you know… Antonio…
Joanna:​ Usually I can see your transitions coming, I didn’t see it coming for
Antonio, you got me. I didn’t see it coming for poor Antonio.
Kristin:​ Oh, I’m so proud.
Joanna:​ I didn’t see the mack truck bearing down on poor Antonio. It
should be noted, so Harmony looking beautiful in a negligee.
Kristin:​ So gorgeous.
Joanna:​ And luxuriating in bed reading a tabloid is bothering Spike right?
But it should be noted that when she brings up Antonio in this context he of
course did play a vampire, Interview with the Vampire in 1994 and this is
1999 so you know…
Kristin:​ Yeeeeeeees.


Joanna:​ I guess she could have said Tom Cruise or Brad Pitt but she went
international, she went with Antonio. [both laugh]
Kristin:​ And also Antonio Banderas was doing a great job in the world but in
the fucking 90s all you heard about was Antonio Banderas. He was
everywhere.
Joanna:​ It was a big deal. Big, big deal.
Kristin:​ Yeah, he was a very fucking big deal and this scene we get some
Spike sex and I’m here for it. I’m here for the Spike sex and I’m also here
for Harmony using her blue veins as a- like that’s how she’s getting Spike.
She says literally “I’m simply covered in these blue veins”. [laughs] and I
just…
Joanna:​ Oh my god.
Kristin:​ I like it. I like what I like and I like this.
Joanna:​ Yeah, the blue veins and more Drusilla talk.
Kristin:​ Right! yes, what does she call her?
Joanna:​ Dorkus? [both laugh] So Dorkus is something that we called each
other in the 80s and 90s right and it was like a rad, totally tubular, dorkus
sort of thing. For your listeners who are musical fans there’s a musical that I
grew up watching a million times over which is problematic in it’s own right,
seven brides for seven brothers, it was like a favorite in my house.
The most beautiful ​sex potty​ character in that musical, played by Julie
Newmar, who also played Catwoman, is named Dorcus [laughs] that’s her
name. They’re like pioneer women, like frontier women, and so Dorcus, I
guess, was a name that one might be named at that time and it’s like
D-o-r-c-u-s.
Kristin​: [laughs] Oh my God
Joanna​: And long before “dork” was a thing we ever called people and so,
they’re like “Dorcus!” at this like sex bomb of a woman, it’s so funny.


Kristin:​ Wow, I need to watch that musical. I’m not familiar with that
musical, actually, and I would like to turn “Dorkus” on its head and it feels
like this will really do it for me. [laughs]
Joanna​: Yeah, Julie Newmar is taking “dorkus” back. She’s reclaiming it,
she’s sexifiying it, it’s gonna be great. [both laugh]
Kristin​: Incredible!
[ad break music starts]
Kristin​: Support for today's show comes from HelloFresh. HelloFresh is a
meal kit delivery service that shops, plans, and delivers your favorite
step-by-step recipes and pre-measured ingredients so you can just cook,
eat, and enjoy. When you’re tied up looking for the Gem of Amara, you don’t
have the time you need to make a good meal.
HelloFresh lets you choose from three plans: classic, veggie, and family.
Each box is delivered right to your door in recyclable, insulated packaging,
and made up of fresh, responsibly obtained ingredients from carefully
selected farms and high-rated, trusted sources. There are even a lot of
one-pot recipes that require minimal clean up, which is really great because
who knows what the plumbing is like in your underground lair.
I don’t live in a lair, and I haven’t recently been searching for any gems
underground, but I will say that I love using HelloFresh for many of my own
reasons. The meals are honestly delicious and they’re often things that I
wouldn’t ever think to make for myself. They recently sent us over the
recipe and ingredients for pork carnitas tacos, which were incredibly
delicious and I also had to wrestle away from my cat, Sam, who apparently
is super into tacos.
For $30 off your first week of HelloFresh, visit hellofresh.com/buffering30,
enter the code “buffering30” at checkout. That’s hellofresh.com/buffering30,
offer code “buffering30” for $30 off your first week of HelloFresh.
[ad break music ends]


Kristin​: So, then we have to go back to this fucking party, right, thats
where we’re going? And Biff Naked is serenading them and she’s all like “we
are the lucky ones” and everybody’s like “Yeah, the 90’s!” and then Parker
and Buffy steal away to have this- my note, specifically, is “Parkers all ‘la la
la history is whatever, making a choice…’” It’s just like I can’t hear anything
that he says now and not just wanna strangle him.
Joanna​: Yeah.
Kristin​: But I will say that I really find this kiss to be A+, as much as I’m
like “ugh parker stop saying all your bullshit just to makeout”, the kiss is a
really good kiss!
Joanna​: You know who’s really good at slow dancing and then like nuzzling
and then smooching someone? Sarah Michelle Gellar.
Kristin​: Yeah.
Joanna​: She does it real well. You feel like- she does the whole: in that sort
of attraction-daze thing, really well. I feel like you just really are transported
when SMG is telling you that Buffy is sexually attracted to someone. I think
she’s good at it! [both laugh]
Kristin​: Yeah, she is, she is.
Joanna​: Here’s what’s true about Parker, here’s what’s both good and bad
about Parker: Yeah, Parker is running a game on her. Yeah, Parker is a total
trash human. But he is also in his like sneaky, shitty way, setting up
expectations, you know what I mean? You can disagree with me, that’s fine.
But here’s what I will say, from my own perspective. Having lived more life
than 18 year old Buffy had at this time, there’s a point where you start to
recognize when people say those things to you, and you’re like “Oh, I
understand what that means” you know what I mean? “This person is, in
their shitty way, trying to set up some expectations for me, testing the
waters”.
And Buffy doesn’t know that that’s what he’s doing, among other things
that he’s doing, you know what I mean? And so she just agrees with him.


And she’s like “Yes! Live for today, no regrets, okay let’s just do it,
whatever”. So yeah, maybe I’m giving him too much credit, but I’m just
saying, it’s a coding that eventually became able to read and when you’re
18, you can’t necessarily read that code, you know?
Kristin: ​Right, that’s interesting because I feel like it’s easy to watch now
and see those things but I, in watching this, even this last viewing, I still felt
like Parker was not- I felt like Parker was the kind of person who finds what
works on a girl and then goes with it.
And so it seemed to me more so that he was just like “This girl is really into
being deep and whatever and like talking about this stuff” and so went hard
in that direction? But I guess you’re right, it makes me feel upset because at
the end I really felt like he was super gaslight-y to Buffy and this would undo
my gaslight-y theory.
Joanna​: Listen, he ​is​ gaslighting her, absolutely. Of course he is, so maybe
I just need to reframe this. I do not want to try to redeem Parker in any
way, I will just say that he’s both gaslighting her and, I guess, giving himself
plausible deniability while hes gaslighting her, of like “We talked about this”
you know what I mean?
Kristin​: Yeah.
Joanna​: And it’s shitty and it sucks and I’m not defending him in any way,
so please don’t anyone misunderstand me. But I just think that- well, here’s
what I’ll say: To your listeners both old and young [both laugh] If a dude or
a lady comes up to you and starts talking about “living for today blah blah”
And you have thoughts about maybe something more with them, cause
that’s fine, one night stands are fine, there’s nothing wrong with that- But if
you’ve thought something more, and they say something like that, just go,
walk away, just don’t mess with people who talk like that, if you want more,
you know what I mean? Which is what Buffy is expecting, so.
Kristin​: Totally, totally. Also I wanna shout out- cause this scene, they have
this really great kiss and then it immediately cuts to Parkers dorm room,
where there’s this- Buffy’s awkwardly taking off his jacket, it just seemed
awkward, cause the kiss was so good.


I was like “What’s happening now?” Why didn’t we choose a shirt? Why did
we choose the weird, large jacket item to take off? But there’s also some
Angel lighting on the back- some venetian blind lighting right behind Parker’s
head, which I was like “Oh got some Angel lighting on the new boyfriend, I
get it.”
Joanna: ​Since you and I were definitely on this podcast together talking
about Buffy’s first time I just wanna note some things that are here and
some things that are missing, okay? I don’t have any clattering [both laugh]
I don’t have any tattoos, I don’t have any swinging lights above casting
things in and out of shadow. What I do have is Buffy clutching shoulder
meat, that’s a classic Buff move. Yeah, sorry if that was too graphic, and
then the same exact sheets.
Kristin:​ Oh my god, oh my god.
Joanna:​ A thousand percent the same burgundy sheets that Angel had,
so...
Kristin:​ Good calls.
Joanna: ​Angel’s might have had a little bit more of a sheen on them, seems
like Angel might have a little sateen or silk in with his sheets and Parker is a
basic bitch cotton but it’s the same burgundy sheets.
Kristin:​ I’m glad- see this is why I have it talking to you about Buffy is
because you said same sheets and in my mind I thought when I’m gonna
talk next I’m gonna be like well Joanna actually they were a little more
sateen, a little shinier for Angel and then you just said it, you know what I
mean, you just know. You know all the things that are in my brain and I’m
appreciative of it.
Joanna:​ I should- I need to- sorry, I need to correct my own thing cause I
just did google image search this cause I’m like oh man Kristin’s listeners
are going to get mad with me if I’m wrong. Angel has a blanket, there’s
white sheets but a crimson blanket sort of thing so I take it back but it
definitely- when they’re having sex it’s like the crimson blanket is part of the
whole visual- just if you were angrily typing an email right now you could
stop. [both laugh]


Kristin:​ Thank you for being so thorough, I was with you, I remembered the
crimson but I see.
Joanna:​ The crimson! It’s a whole thing, yeah.
Kristin​: So, my last note in this scene is Giles leaves a voicemail and
because oh god the ring of Amara is real but too bad dad because Buffy’s
fucking Parker! [laughs]
Joanna: ​Did you say “too bad dad?”. [laughs]
Kristin:​ Yeah, Dad you can’t reach Buffy, she’s having sex. She’s not in her
room which is, not to skip ahead, but Buffy walking into her fucking dorm
room with Giles there and doing the full walk of shame with literal dad sitting
there is a really, really great moment in this episode.
Joanna:​ Well but also bravo for Willow for ushering him out of there
because she wants to talk about it with Buffy and we don’t get a repeat of
Becoming where Giles needs to know that Buffy was having sex. I think dad
doesn’t know this time which makes me happy.
Kristin:​ You think? I feel like he did.
Joanna:​ You think dad knows?
Kristin:​ I think dad knows cause there’s a moment, I can’t remember the
exact line but there’s a moment between Giles and Buffy where she’s sort of
saying well I don’t even need to say where I was cause I’m in college and
he’s like thank goodness that you don’t. You know what I mean?
Joanna:​ Oh, yeah okay, you’re right, dad knows.
Kristin:​ Dad knows that it’s better for dad not to know. Ohhh… so what else
do we have here? There’s whatever- Parker’s dorm, Buffy’s looking for her
clothes, Parker brought coffee, whatever. I don’t have any feelings about
this particular exchange but it’s there for you Joanna if you have feelings.
Joanna:​ Well, it’s an interesting fake out, right? Because she wakes up the
next morning, he’s gone, she does that awkward sheet around you hunt for


clothes sort of thing. Oh and so if you’re watching this for the first time
maybe you’re like oh, well he’s done that thing where the gent abandons the
lady and she’s just like “oh fuck, this sucks” you know and then he comes
back with coffee and he’s like “oh what I was just getting coffee”
I mean it’s further shittiness from Parker because he’s playing the nice guy
the next morning and it’s just like get to the cad already, don’t make us wait
for the cad just go for it you know what I mean? So…
Kristin:​ Right, agree agree and there’s also trouble in paradise between
Anya and Xander in the next little tiny scene. It’s sort of like there’s these
three, they stagger these scenes just like we get at the end with the three of
them where they stagger these scenes.
Where it’s like Parker brings coffee to Buffy, then we go right to Xander’s
room and Anya’s like “I’m over you now” and Xander says “Okay” and then
she’s like “Okay?!” flips out. And then it cuts right to Harmony riding on
Spikes back, it’s sort of like in the moment after right, it’s like everybody has
fucked and what are they all doing? What are the moments?
Joanna:​ Yeah, what’s the post-coital? And the answer is nothing’s good.
With Anya and Xander once again I just have a lot of sympathy for Anya and
I have a lot of sympathy for Xander cause I’ve been Anya, definitely often
been Anya where you say something and you know she says “I’m definitely
over you” and what she wants him to say is like “No, we had sex it was
great, let’s date” you know?
And he’s like “okay” and she’s like “okay?!” you know and Xander who’s 18
and not quick on the uptake generally anyway is not attuned yet to know
that when sometimes people say things they don’t mean in a weird plaintive
way hoping for you to reassure them that they’re wrong and he just sort of
goes “okay…” and I have sympathy for both of them in that scene.
Kristin:​ Totally and Xander’s definitely- I feel like Xander’s been in this
position before where he just goes along with it. He’s not even really saying
his own thoughts, he’s just like I guess… she’s saying this so I’m just gonna
agree. He’s definitely not participating in the exchange he’s just agreeing
cause he thinks it’s what he’s supposed to do.


Joanna:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ So he’s obviously taken super off guard when his agreement is not
the thing to do at all.
Joanna:​ Yeah, and then Harmony using a lipstick shade that she would
never wear or pull off. Practically black, I guess she’s probably
experimenting with some shades as a vampire.
Kristin: ​She’s bored in that underground…
Joanna: ​Yeah, she writes “Spike loves Harmony” in a heart.
Kristin:​ Yes.
Joanna:​ Oh dear, oh Harm.
Kristin:​ Oh Harmony. Right and then the walk of shame happens. We
already talked about that but I do wanna just say that in the scene that
Buffy comes back to her dorm room she has some really good post-sex hair.
I don’t know if anybody else noticed it but it’s real good.
Joanna​: [laughs] But Kristin did!
Kristin:​ I did, I should have my own segment this season that’s just Buffy’s
hair watch cause I’m really all about it. I think season four Buffy hair is
super solid. At least these beginning episodes. I don’t know where we’re
gonna go.
Joanna:​ I’m gonna do this thing where I know what you know and then
your audience does. There’s some crazy good/bad Buffy hair coming up that
we can all talk about later.
Kristin:​ Ooooh, I think I know what you mean.
Joanna:​ But yeah, so the walk of shame that you talked about and then
there’s this upsetting Spike and Harmony scene, right?


Kristin:​ Yeah, so this starts off, before we get upset, this scene- the one
that you’re referencing I believe, begins with Harmony in a purple corset.
It’s a beautiful silk corset that she looks so good in and so before we go into
this scene that gets a little down I think we should go to Kate Leth who I
know is gonna have something to say about this purple corset. And probably
many other Harmony looks, we’ll see, we’ll find out. But let’s hear from
Kate.
[Buffy Fashion Watch intro jingle plays:
It’s time for our friend Kate,
To give you the Buffy Fashion Update!]
Kate: ​Well welcome back to Buffy Fashion Watch and today we’re talking
about The Harsh Light of Day aka all men are terrible but even demons and
vampires pale in comparison to the guys you first meet in university. I’ll be
honest, I fast forwarded through a lot of this episode because I just… hate
Parker so much.
I’ll start by saying Harmony overshadows everyone else in this episode to
such a degree that Spike wouldn’t even need the gem of amara if he’d just
stand in the shade of her perfect outfits. We’ve got a red silk pantsuit, we’ve
got detached sleeves with a braid in her hair no less. And the floor length
pink silk skirt, and yes Kristin, we have a purple corset but it’s not just a
purple corset.
It’s a lavender tie front knit corset spaghetti strap top. There’s so many
words going on in there, it’s really hard to cover all of it. And to top it all off
I can’t tell if the pants she’s wearing with it are silk or pvc. Honestly I had
that problem more than once in the episode. It’s a problem I’m willing to
have. I think we can agree on one thing, Spike never deserved her.
Speaking of Spike, he’ll make one of two guy entries into fashion watch this
week, I know very unusual. And no it’s not Xander, I’m not even talking
about Xander in this episode even though he does have a couple moments
to kind of not be horrible, it’s weird. But hilariously Spike makes it in for a
faux pas, I’m sorry, I have such complicated sexy feelings about Spike
because he imprinted on me as a teen and it’s really hard to make that go
away. It is hilarious to see him in a baggy faded black t-shirt tucked into his
jeans. He looks so goofy, what is he doing?


The second entry is Giles. Giles wears a hoodie, that’s all I have to say.
Overall the scooby gang don’t pull many fashion surprises in this episode
although we do get the reintroduction of Anya. She wears several silk slip
dresses, try and imagine how many takes I did on that one. And she has
brown hair! I forgot about her brown hair, spoilers!
Oh and don’t worry if you were waiting for me to mention Buffy wearing
baby blue when she kicks Spike’s ass I didn’t forget. I could never forget,
she did that one for me. Until next time, I’ll see you at the mall.
[Buffy Fashion Watch outro jingle plays:
That was our friend Kate
She gave you the Buffy Fashion Update]
Kristin:​ Oh my gosh.
Joanna:​ [laughs] You can always count on Kate, right?
Kristin:​ Always, literally always. So okay, thank you Kate, thank you for all
the things that you constantly do to bring us fashion in all of the most
inventive ways. Joanna now you wanna bring us down right? Let’s all come
down together.
Joanna:​ Well it’s just an interesting scene because we love Harmony but we
don’t like Harmony, she’s so shitty to everyone but when she says basically
“why can’t you be nice to me?” It’s sort of like oh my gosh.
Kristin: ​She doesn’t even say- she says “I don’t know why I let you be so
mean to me”.
Joanna:​ Oooooh my god, it’s so bad. It’s so hard.
Kristin:​ It’s really- I know, and again journeying through my feelings for
Spike I was sort of like yeah Harmony, why do we do this? Why are we
doing this? And of course Spike in another- I don’t know how to exactly play
your Shakespeare game but I just feel like “love hurts baby” might count, I
don’t know if it counts but it seems likeJoanna:​ I’m gonna give it a half point for “love hurts baby”. [both laugh]


Kristin:​ Thank you.
Joanna:​ Cause if you went out on the street right now and you were like
“what do you think the line ‘love hurts baby’ is from?” people are gonna be
like: all of pop music history? But if you say: what’s ‘blonde bear’ from?
[laughs]
Kristin:​ Okay, okay I’m learning Joanna. I’m learning your game.
Joanna:​ Yeah, learn to play this very important game.
Kristin:​ So then we go into a montage right? This is where we transition
into a montage after sad Harmony?
Joanna: ​[sings] Detective Buffy... is using her yearbook to try to find
Harmony. [laughs]
Kristin:​ She is, she is like: have you seen this girl? Also the yearbook
picture is the size of her thumbnail, so small. So she’s like: have you seen
this girl? And then it cuts to the drilling and the drilling and more drilling and
then of course the other piece of this montage is no messages from Parker,
no phone call from Parker. Buffy watching the phone, it’s not ringing and
she’s getting more and more distressed in her pigtails.
Joanna:​ Distressed in her pigtails! Buffy Summers.
Kristin:​ Okay so then we get to the scene where- this reminded me of The
Goonies, when they find the treasure in The Goonies. You know? Cause it’s
like piles of necklaces and jewels. Harmony is dancing in the back like an
idiot in her little tiara.
[She] has a great line where Spike thinks that the green jeweled necklace is
the jewel of Amara and so he yanks it out of the pile and Harmony just says
“like you’re too good to use a clasp” [both laugh] She’s so mad at him, that
he yanked the necklace and didn’t undo the clasp. You know Jane Espenson,
fucking great, the lines are so good in this episode.
Joanna:​ Zingers. Yeah, this reminds me of Indiana Jones and the Last
Crusade right? Goonies is a good reference, I always like to remember that


the Goonies call the treasure “rich stuff”. Yeah, so they definitely find the
rich stuff but also this is like the cave in the last crusade where you’re
looking for the magical thing among all the other things. And Spike is going
for a bunch of super obvious stuff and Harmony has unwittingly put the ring
on her finger so…
Kristin:​ Right, which we find out when Spike literally stakes Harmony
having no idea that she’s put on the jewel of Amara. Definitely just killed
Harmony and happened toJoanna:​ [sighs] Aw, Harm.
Kristin:​ I know, and she’s so hurt. At first she has a perfectly Cordette
response which is like “I can’t believe you did that! Wha the fuck!” but deep
down she’s so hurt, my note is Spike why must you be like this? Why? It’s
no good.
Joanna:​ Why do we let you be so mean to Harmony? Yeah.
Kristin:​ Yes, and to us! Why do we allow it? [sighs] So now… now we go to
Giles’ apartment.
Joanna:​ Yes, and more great Xander stuff. [laughs] Xander moving books
and finding Giles’ tv and he’s like “look he’s shallow like us!” and Willow is so
disappointed and Giles defends his tv by saying he watches public television
and it’s great.
Kristin:​ Classic librarian retort. Also this is the scene where- I don’t even
remember exactly what the dialogue is right at the top but they’re talking
about how this is very important, what they’re doing, it’s more important
than records and Oz holds up a record, which I paused to figure out what it
was, cause he’s like even more important than this record? And it’s The
Velvet Underground, Loaded which I learned is the forth album from The
Velvet and it’s also the final album ever recorded by Lou Reed so…
Joanna:​ Oh wow.
Kristin:​ It is a pretty important album by my Wikipedia research. [laughs]
Just so everyone knows.


Joanna:​ Yeah, well so Jane Espenson is so good with the zingers but also
this is just good characterization right? This is a callback to Band Candy.
There have been a number of moments I think about Giles’ record collection
and Oz’s admiration for it.
Kristin:​ I knowJoanna:​ Just like that and so… yeah.
Kristin:​ It’s real cute, they’re just like little music heads together you know?
Joanna:​ I would listen to their podcast. [both laugh]
Kristin:​ Same, I would listen to Oz and Giles or Anthony Stewart Head and
Seth Green, either way I’m good.
Joanna:​ Vinyl Corner with Oz and Giles, I would listen to it.
Kristin:​ Oh my god, it’s so good. Now I wanna hire two actors to play Oz
and Giles talking about the music and the series. Okay great, great, great.
Okay then everything gets really shitty, this is when I get super caps lock for
everything going on with Parker.
Joanna:​ Yeah, Buffy finds Parker using the same lines on another girl. Katie
Lion​ I think?
Kristin:​ Yeah, I called her “smug Kaite” in my notes.
Joanna:​ Aww, is it Kaite’s fault really? no.
Kristin:​ No, it’s not Kaite’s fault but the way she looks at Buffy is like
[smug] Mm-hm.
Joanna:​ It’s like you’ll be next Kaite.
Kristin:​ Yeah, look out.
Joanna:​ You’re looking at your future my girl. Katie and Parker bumming
Buffy out, it’s real bad and then it culminates. This ​is​ Buffy the Vampire


Slayer right? Something real happens to you, this guy you slept with who
you thought maybe you were gonna start something with. You find out he’s
a cad, he’s hitting on smug Kaite and then a literal demon comes when you
least suspect it and you have to fight with your demon. You know what I
mean?
Kristin:​ Yesssss.
Joanna:​ That’s what this show is and Spike punches her in the face. Spike is
a daywalker now to use some Blade terminology and punches her in the face
right when she least needs it.
Kristin:​ [sighs] Right when she least needs it because fucking- listen, I
wanna talk about the fight with Spike too but I just wanna say out loud a
couple of these lines from fucking Parker. One of the lines that Parker says
to her before Spike gets there is- she’s like “you didn’t call and I was just
wondering...” and he just fucking knows.
He knows what the fuck is happening here but instead of being nice at all he
says “It’s only been a couple of days, did you need to talk about
something?” like a fucking nightmare and then Buffy halfway through this
conversation is like “did I do something wrong?”
Which made me wanna sob, just sob because she thinks that she’s done
something wrong and it just makes me so upset and Joanna it is one of the
most visceral experiences of the fucking patriarchy that I have seen so far in
this show. It makes me so mad so I’m just gonna play the fucking jingle.
[The Patriarchy jingle plays]
Kristin:​ Okay, so thank you for bearing with my anger that I have and now
Spike has punched and we’re in the daylight fight. [laughs]
Joanna:​ Yes, sorry I did not mean to railroad any opportunity to call out the
patriarchy but you know here’s Spike also doing it because Spike is not only
literally punching Buffy but he’s slut shaming her in this fight too and once
again we apologize for Spike being our favorite, he is our favorite, this is
terrible.


The most charitable explanation I can come up with- not that I need to
defend Spike cause he is a villain. But he’s once again my whole rom-com
will they/won’t they. His fixation with who Buffy is having sex with and he
says this disgusting thing where he’s like “what’s it like to pry apart the
Slayer’s dimpled knees” or something like that.
That’s disgusting because ‘dimpled knees’ implies super young and all of
that, it’s just disgusting. But I’m just sort of like… because he wants to.
[tough voice] That’s not an excuse! That’s my thesis so you know.
Kristin:​ Yeah… and also it is complicated that we talk so much about
smashing the patriarchy and yet here I am and here you are and we’re like
oh fuck but Spike! Cause it’s like what the fuck? You know, he is the worst
but he’s also a demon and so I think that influences my experience of Spike
cause he’s written to be evil.
The shit he does is fucking evil and it falls a little bit differently to me than
Parker being a shitbag. They both really could use a good fucking punch in
the face in this episode but I think that’s why perhaps I interalize them
differently. I don’t know, but I do.
Joanna:​ Oh absolutely, I think a shitty human is magnitudes worse than a
villain who’s as evil as he’s supposed to be. And this whole exchange and
him bringing up Angel and him bringing up Angel being the thing that sort of
drives her to finish the fight.
That’s all great because fuck him and fuck him for bringing that up but then
he’s also had Drusilla thrown in his face a number of times in this epiosde so
this ex-slinging as you mentioned at the top of the episode is sort of a two
way street.
Kristin:​ Totally.
Joanna:​ But Spike is just more disgusting and shitty and slut-shamy about
it cause he talks about her having sex with Parker and he’s like oh didn’t
seem like you knew him that well, it’s like fuck you dude, come on.
Kristin:​ Yeah, well right and he’s just playing on- I mean they do a good job
playing on each other’s insecurities because his insecurity is his heart when


it comes to Dru and in this case Buffy’s insecurity really is tied to having sex
and feeling like did she fuck up? were her expectations wrong? What did she
do wrong when it comes to sleeping with this person because it’s a fucking
trigger for her already because of her history.
So they really know how to fuck each other up [laughs] is what I think we
are saying. Also shout out to another line “gem of Amara, official sponsor of
my killing you” I think is pretty solid, nice work Jane and Spike. [laughs]
Joanna:​ Great, great, great. There’s also- we should point out, some truly
classically terrible stunt work in this scene. And then some good stuff too, I
rewound this one part where Spike’s on his back and he does one of those
classic flip himself back up things that you see so often on Buffy and I swear
to god it’s Marster’s doing it because you can see his face.
It’s not a cut to his face, he flips himself up and it’s on his face and granted
his Spike vamp makeup in the daytime… the thing is the stunt double is
physically a bigger dude and so it’s not the stunt double. Maybe they had an
acrobatic double but it seems like too much work. So anyway, I’ll be curious
if your listeners agree with me or if they’re like Joanna you’re crazy James
Marsters definitely did not do a flip back up from the ground.
Kristin:​ Oh but what if he did? I’m fanning myself.
Joanna:​ He had many abs at the time and I think Sarah did that move
herself a couple times as well. I think it’s one that the actors could figure
out. They’re not necessarily doing their own kicking but they’re doing that
flip up from the ground.
Kristin:​ So [sighs] the turn that Spike takes to Angel is really all Buffy ever
needed to win this fight. As soon as he draws the line between the insecurity
she’s feeling with Parker to the experience she had with Angel it’s fucking
done! My note in all caps is “THAT’S ALL SHE NEEDED, BLAMO” literally I
wrote “BLAMO” so you’re all welcome.
Joanna:​ Wow.
Kristin:​ She gets the fucking ring, Spike somehow doesn’t immediately
combust which is a little… He jumps underground pretty quickly but he’s in


direct sunlight for at least a couple seconds. No fire happens, he jumps
underground. Will it be the last we see of Spike? Well he’s in the credits folks
so probably not. But yeah and then the end of this episode has a lot of
feelings for me. What about you Joanna?
Joanna:​ Well yeah, and before we get to the very end we should say that
we skipped Anya looking for Xander and Xander was looking for Buffy and
he’s like I don’t have time and he didn’t. They know I think at that point that
Spike- or maybe he doesn’t know that, anyway this is not the first or the last
time that Xander’s concern for Buffy will supercede concern for a romantic
partner.
This is a classic Xander thing but it also sort of feels like yeah, he doesn’t
have time in that moment for that. But that’s a sad thing for Anya and then
also we get Harmony who goes “being a vampire sucks!” and it’s such a
cheesy line but its done so well. Yeah, full marks for that.
Kristin:​ Yeah it really is, sad vamp Harmony really nails it. I wrote down
another one of her lines in that little moment cause she says “like I wouldn’t
have just given it to him, he was my platinum baby and I loved him”. Aww
Harm!
Joanna:​ [laughs] Why is she so good?
Kristin:​ The episode would have ended wonderfully if all the scorned women
just got together. If they were like you know what ladies? Let’s just be here
for each other. That’s how Kristin Russo would have ended this episode.
Joanna:​ Are you saying you wanted Ocean’s 3 at the end of this episode?
[both laugh]
Kristin:​ Yes. Correct.
Joanna:​ Yeah, but instead it’s just sad walking montage
Kristin:​ Right, but of course we get to the sad walking montage thankfully
Oz has that gig in Los Angeles that we briefly heard about at the beginning
of the episode so he’s gonna bring the ring of Amara to Angel from Buffy
which is like…


Joanna:​ Kristin, I really wish that you were doing an Angel podcast right
now because then you could just immediately the following week go to that
episode whereKristin:​ Well you know, you’re right and what’s funny Joanna is I am.
Joanna:​ What! This is the first I’m hearing of it. [laughs]
Kristin:​ There actually is an Angel podcast, it’s called Angel on Top and you
know who’s gonna be guesting on this episode? The next episode is Jenny
Owen Youngs.
Joanna:​ Who’s that? [gasps] I’ve heard of her!
Kristin:​ Yeah, Jenny Owen Youngs who is not here in this universe, don’t
worry will be in Los Angeles in the other universe because we’re gonna find
out what happens over there with Oz going to LA cause you know… that’s
what these television shows do. [sighs] It’s so exciting.
Joanna:​ Yeah, I am really thrilled that you guys are doing this week by
week thing. I’ve never done that kind of watch. The watch one Buffy, watch
one Angel but especially in this season and the following one, they’re on the
same network, it feels vital to do a side by side watch. You just miss things
if you don’t so I would recommend everyone it’s early in the new Angel
podcast start your Angel rewatch or your Angel first time watch. Kristin did
not pay me to say this nor did she tell me to say thisKristin:​ [laughs] I didn’t!
Joanna:​ But I really do think that it’s at least for two seasons and then
you’ll be hooked and won’t wanna stop anyway but at least for two seasons
you gotta watch both.
Kristin:​ Hell yeah, the crossovers are everything. So then Willow really
shows the fuck up. Willow says the thing that we all wanted to scream to
Buffy through the television screen in the prior scene. You don’t know, none
of this bullshit where you feel like you did something wrong this guy is an
asshole but in Willow speak is a poop head. [laughs] And Buffy sort of has


this moment of saying like ugh! which really gets me. “He’s manipulative
and shallow and why doesn’t he want me”
Joanna:​ Ahhh!
Kristin:​ Right? Owning this shit, being like I see it but yet it still emotionally
impacts me. I can’t access the next rung on this ladder to say he’s
manipulative and he’s shallow and so I don’t give a fuck that he doesn’t
want me, I’m still on this rung of the ladder where I’m still upset about it
which is so real, it is. You can see that somebody’s an asshole and still be
destroyed by them, it’s just how life is.
Joanna:​ Yeah, that’s a very real sentence right there and so I will be gentle
on Xander in this episode, I will be sympathetic for Harmony and Anya and
hopefully as harsh on Spike as I should be. I’m gonna be a little hard on
Buffy here, this is Willow showing the fuck up for Buffy in a way that I feel
Buffy often fails to do for Willow.
I think we’ve all been in those friendships where [laughs] you’re the one
who shows up but the other person doesn’t. Not that Buffy never does but
just every time Willow does in such a spectacular fashion I’m like [sigh]
Buffy’s not- she’s the chosen one sure but I wish she would choose to show
up for her friends a little bit more sometimes.
Kristin:​ Yeah, it’s certainly an unbalanced relationship at least at this stage
in the game. It’s always Willow comforting Buffy very rarely Buffy being
there for Willow in that deep a way. But hopefully she’s taken some of what
Willow has said to heart that this is a certifiable poop head and we don’t
need him anymore. And then we get our- did you call it a broken hearted
walk? Cause if you did that’s literally the note that I wrote down.
Joanna:​ Similar yeah, something like that.
Kristin:​ Buffy, Anya and Harmony just all like man… love hurts. What was
the line that I said that I got a half a point for?
Joanna:​ “Love hurts baby”. [both laugh]
Kristin:​ So generous with that half point.


Joanna:​ In the classic words of Buffy the Vampire Slayer “Love hurts baby”
Kristin:​ [laughs] God damn it! You know what’s hard about a podcast is that
it just goes into outer space and now forever that will be logged. “Love hurts
baby” that’s the one I came up with everyone. Well this is an episode
entirely about sex and so of course let’s go over to Jenny Owen Youngs and
the sexual tension award for this week.
[Sexual Tension Award jingle plays]
Jenny: ​Hey, what’s up it’s me your friend Jenny Owen Youngs here to bring
you everything you need to know about recent goings on in the land of the
sexual tension awards. Great, great, great. Last episode, season four
episode two Living Conditions wanna bring the results of our listener poll to
you.
Here’s what we got: basically tied in last place we had Kathy and Celine Dion
with 15% and Kathy and pencil sharpener with 14%. Coming in at second
place we had Kathy and hard boiled eggs with 30% of the vote. And Kathy
and Cher taking the award with 41% of your vote, hell yeah.
Congratulations Kathy and Cher I guess Kathy was gonna come out a winner
no matter what but very exciting for Cher I’m sure Cher has a small space
just open and dusted on her trophy wall in her home just waiting for this
trophy which is of course, in the mail. Thank you all for voting.
You know I guess there were some real sparks between Kathy and Celine
and Kathy and those eggs and Kathy and the pencil sharpener but when you
really think about it we did hear “do you believe in life after love” more
times in this episode than I think we’ve ever heard anything in one episode
of anything ever before. So great. They’ve clearly earned it and we’re very
happy for them.
Now, moving on to this episode’s nominees. Now when Kristin and I were
narrowing it down this week, I want you to know that I had a nomination for
Drusilla and the fungus demon which we were categorizing as a special off
camera nomination. Now, we’re not gonna honor that, it’s not gonna be in
the twitter poll but we did wanna mention it cause it sounds great and also
we wanted a chance to play the Drusilla jingle for you so here it is:


[Drusilla’s jingle plays:
Drusilla you filla my heart with dread
And still I’m led right back to you]
Jenny: ​Okay, okay, okay so now time for the real nominees this week.
Wow, okay we’ve got some hot, hot pairings. First of all we’ve got Devon
and crop tops, I don’t know if you noticed Devons midriff the way I noticed
Devons midriff but holy crap that guy loves a crop top.
We’ve also got Anya and the phrase “sexual intercourse” which she allegedly
said like a dozen times, great, great, great. Then we’ve got Xander and his
juicebox of course. And our final nominee is Harmony and Blondie
Bear/Platinum Baby.
So if you wanna get in on this please find us on twitter @bufferingcast we
will have the poll up imminently and you can vote for your top pick for
sexual tension in this week’s episode. Care about you guys, now enjoy the
rest of the episode.
[Sexual Tension Award jingle plays]
Kristin:​ Oh my gosh, a huge congrats from us too to Cher and Kathy. Great
work.
Joanna:​ Do you believe… Kristin that that was the results?
Kristin:​ [laughs] You know… Joanna I do, I do believe it. I also really
believe that the second runner up was the hard boiled eggs cause I think
they were really neck and neck for a while there and then Cher took the lead
which I think was well deserved. So anyhow… did we miss anything? Did we
miss anything towards the end of the episode that you wanted to talk about?
Joanna:​ I don’t think so, I appreciate- I mean the thesis of Becoming part
one and two is what if you sleep with your high school boyfriend or your
much older boyfriend when you’re in high school and he literally becomes a
monster. You know is Joss’s great brilliant stroke of genius that he had for
Buffy season two.


And to have it repeated again in human form in college- I don’t know- here’s
what it feels like, it’s like you go to high school and everything’s so dramatic
and everything’s so big and it’s over the top and this metaphor of these
hurdles you face are literal demons it all makes so much sense because high
school just feels that way, so big.
To have it reflected and refracted again in Parker in college but be smaller
and lamer and human is also a lesson you learn in college. Where you’re just
sort of like oh these problems that I thought were so big in high school
maybe these happen all the time.
Happens every day all the time and it’s not that Buffy’s hurt here isn’t
significant, it is. Not that this is the last we’ll see of her hurt but that it’s just
like yeah this happens man. It’s not just your special vampire demon
boyfriend that does this shit, it just happens, people are terrible sometimes.
Kristin:​ Totally!
Joanna:​ These are the lessons we learn in college or as we get older.
Kristin:​ Totally, and I love that too because that’s kind of the journey that
we all go on as we grow. It’s not that the things hurt any less, it's that they
just hurt with a different level of knowledge, right? We have more to
contextualize the hurt with and it’s the same.
The hurt that you feel when your first love leaves you, you feel that level of
hurt so many other times in your life but it’s just different because you’re
older. You have more experience in certain things, you have more trauma in
certain ways.
There’s just all these other pieces that go along with it and so right this is
devastating for Buffy in a way that is really very deep, maybe not as deep as
sending her first lover to a hell dimension but it’s real. It’s very fucked up.
Joanna:​ Right and Buffy will continue to learn these lessons, this is the
whole point of things and the challenge of the show and I think you and I did
talk about this a little bit on the Living Conditions episode that we did is the
challenge of the show is to find those parallels that are maybe easy to recall
in high school but what does that look like in college.


What does that look like beyond college, what are the young adult hurdles
that feel demonic to us? Is it your freshman roommate using sharpie to label
her eggs? Is it this thing that you thought was more than a one night stand
and it turns out it was just a one night stand? What are those things?
And I think I said in that episode sometimes these later seasons of Buffy
really nail it and sometimes I think they’re stretching a little bit to figure out
analogous challenges for young adults. So I don’t know, it’s interesting.
Kristin:​ Joanna, you’re so good at talking. Do you know that about yourself?
[both laugh] Joanna Robinson [sighs] thanks for being a part of The Harsh
Light of Day with me.
Joanna:​ Thank you for having me to talk about our problematic fave and
weird sex stuff. Someday Kristin, you and I will launch our spinoff podcast
that’s just called Problematic Fave.
Kristin:​ Yeah, yeah.
Joanna:​ Parenthesis (weird sex stuff) Everyone will of course wanna listen
to it.
Kristin:​ Exactly and if you all enjoyed listening to Joanna and I talk about
The Harsh Light of Day, I said this up at the top but you can listen to us talk
about Living Conditions in a bonus episode that’s over on our Patreon which
is available to all of our patrons at any level.
So you can check that out, you just go to our website
bufferingthevampireslayer.com and click on Patreon and there’s a bonus
episode where Joanna and I talk about Kathy, Kathy, and some more Kathy.
[laughs] Joanna will you tell the lovely humans where they can find you?
Joanna:​ If you’re a Westworld watcher and a podcast listener, hopefully for
listening to this podcast, you are a podcast listener. I do two podcasts about
the tv show Westworld, one is called- it takes that many podcasts to
understand what’s going on guys. One’s called Decoding Westworld, one’s
called Still Watching: West World.


Also the Still Watching podcast will once Westworld is done be moving on to
the Amy Adams HBO adaptation of Gillian Flynn’s Sharp Objects so we will
be doing a little watch of that. So Still Watching is something that I do with
my Vanity Fair co host Richard Lawson and if you don’t wanna hear me
yammer anymore you can read me yammer on vanityfair.com.
I’m actually in newstands right now, I have a cover story in Vanity Fair so
you can get that on newstands. The cover story on Emelia Clarke or you can
find me on twitter @jowrotethis.
Kristin: ​[sighs] The cover story on Emelia Clarke, I just wanna make sure
everyone heard that, it’s so fucking awesome Joanna. So great. Everything
that you do is so great, also want everyone to know that I’m behind on
Westworld but Joanna I squintily looked at some of your tweets and I’m like
oh Joanna’s really into the most recent episode and I’m like three behind, I
have to catch up. I have so much to watch!
Joanna:​ I was a little proud of myself, so I wrote this tweet that went a
little far. Sometimes you make a tweet and it goes far outside the scope of
your little following right? And so all the sudden there are people on there
who don’t understand what you’re about and they’re trying to decipher your
tweet.
I feel like most of the people who follow me really understood but I put the
last episode of Westworld and compared it to three episodes of television
that I find tremendously affecting. And one’s The Door Game of Thrones
episode, one is The Constant, my favorite Lost episode.
And then I put a Buffy still up there and most people in my feed knew which
one I meant but it’s just Giles’ face so a lot of people are like either what’s
Giles reacting to? Some people are like is that the coffee commercial that
Giles used to be on?
Kristin:​ Oh my god.
Joanna:​ And then some people are just like what’s that Buffy episode? It
was Passion for the record, I know all of your listeners would have gotten it.
It’s the shot of Giles’ face when he sees Jenny.


Kristin:​ It’s very clear what it is Joanna, I’m here for you.
Joanna:​ Right? We get it! I just wanna say I needed more of listeners in
that moment for all the people who were like what episode is that? I mean
granted I could have picked Jenny and Angel in the window or something
like that but I went for the Giles moment because it’s just a little bit more
you know?
Kristin:​ Yeah, I do. I think it was a great choice, screw all those people who
don’t know Buffy well enough to get your picture. I mean, come on.
Joanna:​ [laughs] Screw them.
Kristin:​ Anyhow when I am not talking to Jenny Owen Youngs or Joanna
Robinson about Buffy the Vampire Slayer I am doing stuff with LGBTQ young
people and their families. As a matter a fact if you are based in New York in
just a few days on June 23rd I’ll be doing my All Ages Pride Party. It’s an
annual party that I throw in New York City.
It’s at Housing Works Bookstore. It’s super fun, it’s from one o’clock until
three o’clock and we have performances by Chica and Emily Wells and the
Slam Poetry Team from Urban Word New York City, Reese Bernard of
Autostraddle is gonna co host with me.
You can find out all of those details just by following me on social media, it’s
all over my social media right now. You can do that @kristinnoeline which is
k-r-i-s-t-i-n-n-o-e-l- did I spell my own name wrong? Did I say k-r-i-s-t-e-n
or did I say i-n? I’m gonna start again, wow this is history in the making
folks. [laughs] k-r-i-s-t-i-n-n-o-e-l-i-n-e, jesus christ.
That’s how you find my socials, it’s also my website kristinnoeline.com. And
of course you can find Buffering @bufferingcast on twitter, on instagram and
on facebook. And you can also email us at
bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com​. I think we’re ready to howl out
Joanna, are you ready?
Joanna:​ I’m ready.
Kristin:​ Until next time…


Kristin and Joanna:​ Awwwoooooooooooooo!
Kristin:​ Beautiful.
[Jenny performing “The Harsh Light of Day” from the album “Songs from
Season Four” by Buffering the Vampire Slayer]
I thought I knew what I was getting into
Took a deep breath, leapt out of the window
Looking for an updraft, updraft
I didn’t get to catch that, catch that

Will it always feel like this
Where it starts off with a kiss
Then leaves me licking my wounds
and thinking of you

Way back before I ever saw your face
I thought that love was something I should chase
I thought it’d fade but what do I know
I’m darker underneath your shadow

Will it always feel like this
Where it starts off with a kiss
Then leaves me licking my wounds
and thinking of you


Wanna see the world without you but I don’t know if I’m able
The demon in my bedside table
You left a mark on me that’s feelin kinda fatal
The demon in my bedside table

Will it always feel like this
Where it starts off with a kiss
Then leaves me licking my wounds
and thinking of you

