Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 6.13: Dead Things
[CHIME]
Jenny: Hey, everybody!
Kristin: [singsong] Hello, everybody! [normal voice] Oh, I’m rewatching—
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: I’m rewatching Lost. That just literally slipped out. I did not plan for that to
happen.
Jenny: [singing] Hello, everybody! [both laugh] Cool.
Kristin: Charlie aside—what was the name of the band? I should know, I just
watched it. Drive Shaft.
Jenny: There it is.
Kristin: Drive Shaft aside. We are here, in the intro, to tell you a few things. First
of all, an update on the antiracist work that we’ve been doing in the Buffering
space, and most of this update is that we are going to have more of an update the
next time we chat. Mack has been in conversation with us, because we’re changing
some of the shapes of things that we were doing at the jump. We’re gonna have
more words on that in an episode or two for you. But Jenny and I signed up for a
workshop that’s being done by Hollaback, in partnership with Asian Americans
Advancing Justice, AAJC, and we would like to encourage you to sign up. The
training is a bystander intervention training, and they offer these bystander
intervention trainings for free. Encouragement to donate to their organization,
which we have, as Buffering the Vampire Slayer. We will be at the now at-capacity
event on May 20th at 5 o’clock Eastern. But they have at least three or four that
are open in May and June, and they continue to add more. So the website is
ihollaback.org. I-H-O-L-L-A-B-A-C-K dot org. You can go there, check it out, check
out the work they’re doing. It’s super important, it’s super great, and we’re gonna
have more about some, like, community sharing of events that we will be
participating in that we would love for you to participate in with us. More on that to
come. But now you know.
Jenny: Yes!


Kristin: And Jenny, something else I wanna talk about really badly is Keanu
Reeves and a couple of events—
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: That we have coming up. Cool. So you know that Joanna Robinson and I
do a special Patreon podcast called Feels Like the First Time. May, for Matrix,
[Jenny snorts] is themed around [laughing] Keanu Reeves.
Jenny: Mmhmm. Dial May for Matrix, of course.
Kristin: Yeah. Shut it. So we are watching three movies in the month of May. May
20th, we are watching Point Break. May 24th, we are watching John Wick at the
request of Jenny Owen Youngs. You’ll hear later—
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: In this episode, request it. And here it is, it is being delivered unto thee,
Jenny Owen Youngs.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: So I hope to see you there.
Jenny: Mm!
Kristin: May 26th, we’re watching The Matrix. The Matrix and Point Break—I’ll say
this. I’ve never seen Point Break or John Wick ever before, and The Matrix I saw
probably in the theater, but maybe I was making out with a boy. You know what I
mean? Who knows what was happening—
Jenny: Sure, sure.
Kristin: At that point in time. So I don’t remember it at all. Anyway. That is open
to all of our patrons. Jenny, you and I have a live taping coming up, don’t we?
Jenny: We do! We have a live taping of a very special episode of Buffy the Vampire
Slayer. This will be taking place Thursday, June 3rd in the year 2021 [Kristin
laughs] at 8 PM Eastern, 5 PM Pacific. We’re doing a live taping of As You Were.
There’s a fan-favorite character who is coming back for one last hurrah.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Drusilla.


Jenny: My friend and yours—
Kristin: Must be Drusilla.
Jenny: Yeah—I—I don’t wanna spoil who it is for the people who are watching for
the first time.
Kristin: [simultaneously] As Dru Were. [laughs]
Jenny: Mmm, yes!
Kristin: Tickets are $12. You can get a ticket for 15 or 16, I don’t remember what
the upper tier is, if you’re watching with more than one person.
Bufferingthevampireslayer.com/ticketing.
Jenny: And this is probably gonna be our last taping of Season 6. What do you
think about that?
Kristin: I think it’s great. I think it’s great. I can’t wait to go live on the internet
with you, and talk about this fan-favorite character.
Jenny: Same.
Kristin: [laughing] So patrons—patrons—if you’re a patron, that means that the
night before our live taping, on June 2nd, you’ll be able to watch As You Were live
with us. So you know, learn all about these things at
bufferingthevampireslayer.com. All of the events that we do, and there are so
many, are on our calendar. We call it our Jenny Calendar. So—
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Yes, of course, how could we not. Hey, um, really thrilled about the Sexual
Tension Award results from Doublemeat Palace—
Jenny: [simultaneously] Step aside! Please remain behind the yellow tape, Kristin,
this is my domain. And I must deliver—it’s my sacred duty to deliver. One girl, in all
the world, to deliver—
Kristin: [simultaneously] Okay, well, let me just remind you [Jenny laughs] that
everyone is here today to listen to the episode for Dead Things. [Jenny laughs] So
you can get to the point and tell them the results.


Jenny: Alright, alright, alright, alright. In fourth place, with 15% of the vote, we
have Dehydrated Pickles.
Kristin: [laughs] I’m disappointed for the pickles, to be honest with you.
Jenny: I think that 15% is an impressive amount of the vote for Dehydrated
Pickles, objectively.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: In third place with 18% of the vote, we have Xander and his little burgers
that he just can’t keep out of his mouth. [Kristin laughs] In second place, with 22%
of the vote—I’m a little bummed about this, but I understand why it
happened—we’ve got Lorraine Ross and Buffy the Vampire Slayer. And in first
place, a sweet, holy union that the universe intended, 45% of the vote, they’ve
earned it! Congratulations to Chicken and Cow!
Kristin: Chicken and Cow for the win! I—
Jenny: Wow!
Kristin: Thank you, listenership. That is what we needed from you—
Jenny: [whispering] Chicken and cow, wow, wow, wow.
Kristin: And you gave it to us. Hey, um—
Jenny: [whispering] Chicken and cow, wow, wow, wow.
Kristin: I have a quick email to share. I also realized that an email that I should
have shared was, like, one of the 40 emails, which was, “Hey Jenny, you said that
Lorraine Ross—the actress who plays Lorraine Ross—has big Jane Lynch energy.
Well, FYI, on the show Psych, this actress and Jane Lynch played sisters.” So we
were—
Jenny: Incredible.
Kristin: Correct.
Jenny: So right.


Kristin: We basically are casting director Kristin Russo—
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: And casting director Jenny Owen Youngs.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Quick email from Mike. “Hey. I’m sure this—” So I don’t know if you
remember, Jenny, but we talked about Giles having a dating site?
Jenny: Oh, yeah. This is feeling familiar. Yes! Yes, okay, yes.
Kristin: Well, Mike had a suggestion for the name of that dating website—dating
app, if you will—and it is Herringboned. And I think that’s a very good suggestion,
so thank you, Mike.
Jenny: [laughs] Yes.
Kristin: Pretty good, right?
Jenny: Okay, well, I’ve gotta go build that website, right now. Goodbye.
Kristin: [laughs] Real quick, before we roll into Dead Things. We have an ancillary
episode, which is a conversation between producer Alba and Jess Clark. This is the
first time you all will be meeting Jess Clark, but I do not think it will be the last time
that you are meeting him. He is the prevention manager at Solace Crisis Treatment
Center—that’s a rape crisis center in Santa Fe, New Mexico. He’s also a consultant
for Catharsis Productions out of Chicago and he’s been doing sexual violence
prevention for a decade. His work focuses on increasing youth capacity to
interrogate systems of oppression, exploring queer slash trans masculinities as a
site of violence prevention, and supporting organizations in better serving trans
communities through policies and best practices. He rules, and the conversation
that Jess and Alba had about the things that happen in this episode is phenomenal.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: We’ve put it over on Patreon, for free. It’s just an ancillary place to put it.
The link is in the show notes so that you can choose if you wanna go deeper into
that conversation.
Jenny: Mmhmm.


Kristin: Because we know some of you will definitely wanna do that and some of
you may not. So that is why we did things the way that we did. And I think that
that’s about all that we have to say.
Jenny: And before we dive in, just a quick content warning. This episode contains
discussion of sexual violence and physical violence. So, be warned.
Kristin: Alright, here we go.
[Buffering theme plays]
Jenny: [exhales]
Kristin: [laughs]
Jenny: [dejectedly] Hello. And welcome. To Buffering the Vampire Slayer. A
podcast where we’re usually watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the
Vampire Slayer, one by one, spoiler free, in tandem with Angel On Top. But today,
we’re just talking about fluffy puppies.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And that one—
Kristin: Rainbows.
Jenny: That one rat in the subway that drags a piece of pizza around.
Kristin: Oh, yeah! Yeah, yeah—
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: Pizza Rat, love that guy. Yeah.
Jenny: Lobsters mating for life—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: And holding claws, you know.
Kristin: Aw, cute.


Jenny: Just cute stuff.
Kristin: Penguins, warming up their little baby penguin eggs.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: With their little flubber bellies. Yeah. Yeah.
Jenny: I am pathological liar [Kristin laughs] and sweetheart of the pod, Jenny
Owen Youngs.
Kristin: Ohh. And I’m Kristin Russo and I realized last week that the reason that
we never get to say “in tandem with our arch nemesis, Angel On Top” is because
you say it, and you refuse to participate in the feud.
Jenny: I just don’t understand why we have to feud. I—
Kristin: Because it’s a bit! [laughs]
Jenny: Love…
Kristin: It’s a fun bit.
Jenny: Morgan and LaToya. And I would never feud with them.
Kristin: Oh, boy.
Jenny: But if I must for the sake of the pod, then consider my gauntlet thrown.
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: My glove—
Kristin: We got her! She’s in.
Jenny: Flapped. [Kristin laughs] You know.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Fine.


Kristin: Hey—
Jenny: They are a bunch of jerks.
Kristin: This week—
Jenny: And we rule!
Kristin: This week, we’re reluctantly talking about Buffy the Vampire Slayer,
Season 6, Episode 13, Dead Things. Stay tuned at the end of this podcast to see if
we’re alive, still. Just kidding—
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: Every other week for an original song, written by Jenny, recapping the
Buffy episode we are discussing.
Jenny: Dead Things was written by Steven S. DeKnight and directed by James A.
Contner, and originally aired on February 5th, 2002.
Kristin: You’re gonna lose your mind when you hear what the fucking TV Guide
description is for this.
Jenny: [laughs] Three—three dudes, just having a good time.
Kristin: [laughing] I mean, like—
Jenny: Get into some hijinks.
Kristin: I mean, literally. So according to TV Guide, this is the one where “Spike
attacks Buffy, despite the chip in his head that is supposed to defuse his violence.”
No, he doesn’t.
Jenny: What?
Kristin: No, he doesn’t. I mean—
Jenny: By “attacks,” do they mean…?
Kristin: [simultaneously] Yeah, whatever, we’ll discuss it. But first of all, what?
“Then, the Slayer’s framed for murder by nerdy nemeses, Andrew, Warren and


Jonathan.” That is the complete description of this episode. What the fuck, TV
Guide?
Jenny: Uhh…well. In TV Guide’s defense.
Kristin: [scoffs] Oh my god. You—
Jenny: Spoilers.
Kristin: And your short, thick TV Guide.
Jenny: No, no. No, no—[laughs] well…[Kristin laughs] you know, we have
something special. Spoilers. I’m—has anyone—here’s a fact check for our beautiful
listenership. Has TV Guide ever printed the word “rape” in an episode description?
Kristin: No. I mean, they could at least have mentioned the narrative plot of
Katrina. I mean, like—
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: You know what I mean? Like, it just feels like a pretty big fucking thing to
leave out.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: Anyway.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Yeah, I don’t know. I wouldn’t have expected them to use the word “rape”
in the description of the episode. But I definitely thought that they would—by the
way, this is the one where the Trio attempts to rape Katrina by using a cerebral
dampener, AKA a date rape drug in magical form. It’s—it’s the one where we all
wanna turn it off. This—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: This is…
Jenny: Correct.


Kristin: To date—I don’t know how many episodes we’re in, to the series right
now. But like, a hundred and change. To date, this is the hardest episode that I
have had to watch multiple times. And I include The Body in that.
Jenny: Mmm. Mmhmm.
Kristin: Because the—I mean, normally—a little behind the curtain. Normally,
I—my process now is that I watch the episode and I write notes. I hand write them.
And then before Jenny and I sit down to talk, I type them because the—like,
transposing them kind of, like, helps me get it in my brain a little more, helps me
think of a couple deeper things. I didn’t do that. I hand wrote my notes and I was
like, and that’s all—now I need a slice of fucking banana bread and a goddamn
coffee. And that’s what I’m doing—
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: With the time I would normally take to transpose these notes. Because…
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: This episode is really rough. So, I tweeted this morning, early morning
tweets from me, that basically the Previously On for this episode is “everything is
shit, remember? [Jenny laughs] Do you remember this piece of shit? Do you
remember this other piece of shit? Hey, do you remember how life is a piece of
shit?” [Jenny laughs] And then it’s like—into the episode. Ha-ha-ha, life is still shit.
[laughs]
Jenny: [dejectedly] Yay! Well, hey, though. Don’t jump too far ahead, because we
open on the soothing sounds of desperate crypt sex.
Kristin: Yes. “Passionate moaning” is what my closed captioning said. [Jenny
laughs] Passionate…moaning. Also, I do think—the only thing I do think is good to
note in the specifics of the Previously On into this passionate moaning is that they
made the conscious decision to end the Previously On with Buffy saying, “I am
disgusted with myself.” And then it’s a—
Jenny: [laughs] Cut to…
Kristin: Hard cut to passionate moaning—
Jenny: Mmm.


Kristin: Where Spike and Buffy are fucking under…so many rugs.
Jenny: Okay. There’s simply no reason to get under the carpet.
Kristin: None.
Jenny: There’s simply no reason!
Kristin: None. None. Carpets have—I have been underneath a carpet. I know what
the underside of a carpet—I mean, you know what I mean? Just, like—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Fucking, they’re rough and scratchy. And like, you don’t wanna be under
it.
Jenny: Yeah. And for what, for warmth?
Kristin: You know, I mean, I think they probably—
Jenny: [simultaneously] Also, consider, if you’re under it—if you’re under it and
you’re trying to maneuver in any kind of rhythmic—
Kristin: Oh my god.
Jenny: [laughing] Propulsory—
Kristin: Jesus Christ.
Jenny: Kind of way.
Kristin: Can I leave? [laughs]
Jenny: You would think that—[both laugh] the heaviness—and those are
not—those are not Ikea carpets.
Kristin: No, those are heavy.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Those are hand-knotted—
Kristin: Mmhmm.


Jenny: Persian—
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: [inaudible] props aside, I’m probably doing a terrible job at—I didn’t
actually take carpet notes. But they did look—
Kristin: [simultaneously] That’s what…she…said. [laughs]
Jenny: [simultaneously] Like they were made of wool and hand-knotted. Anyway.
That would be an impediment if you were trying to—but you know what? He does
like his exercises. He does like his little sex pushups. So maybe, it’s a challenge.
Kristin: Yeah. I think they just knew…
Jenny: Fuck under a rug challenge, go!
Kristin: I think they were fucking on top of the rugs and then they were like, oh
shit, the camera crew is here. They’re gonna start filming that show called [both
laughing] Buffy the Vampire Slayer. Let’s get underneath the rugs.
Jenny: Oops! [Kristin laughs] Yeah.
Kristin: I also thought there was beautiful—like, as much as they were, like,
fucking this crypt down. Spike took the time to light several candles, placing them
atop coffins, atop tables. They are scattered about the crypt, so at least—
Jenny: Uh-huh, uh-huh.
Kristin: At least there’s still time for that. I also wrote down a joke. It’s like 10,000
rugs when all you need is therapy. [both laugh] Cool.
Jenny: True!
Kristin: Great. [Jenny laughs] Spike—so—
Jenny: Well! Looks like I’m not the only one staying up—
Kristin: [laughs] By candlelight!
Jenny: [simultaneously] By the light of the candle, writing in my little leatherbound
book, all my little jokes. [both laugh]


Kristin: So…
Jenny: Hmm.
Kristin: So. They’re post-sex here, and underneath carpets, and they’re having a
conversation.
Jenny: An interior design conversation.
Kristin: Oh, this is great. This is great content for 1080P HGTV.
Jenny: [laughing] Yes!
Kristin: Spike says he ate a decorator once. Which is—
Jenny: Only once?
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah, well, that he knows of, anyway.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: I request that Buffy show me her New Kids on the Block poster, because I
have not seen it—
Jenny: Haven’t seen it.
Kristin: Have not seen it. Sounds like a lie.
Jenny: Footage not found.
Kristin: I had two New Kids on the Block posters, Jenny. Do you know who they
were? They were both of individual Kids on the block.
Jenny: Okay, I’m gonna guess that they were of Jordan Knight and Donnie
Wahlberg.
Kristin: Correct and correct. Ding-ding-ding.
Jenny: [whispers] Nailed it.
Kristin: I think you knew that, already, somewhere in your brain.


Jenny: But also, if it wasn’t one of them—like, those two and Joey were the sort of,
like—
Kristin: Yeah. The heartthrobs.
Jenny: Most people’s favorites.
Kristin: But you loved Jonathan.
Jenny: The gay one, yes.
Kristin: [laughs] Listen, we could probably go down a New Kids on the Block rabbit
hole here, but we won’t. The point is, these two are having a conversation. And
Spike—Spike makes the mistake of calling it out. Man, if you just let it happen, you
probably woulda kept talking.
Jenny: Dude, yeah. Just be cool for once in your fucking un-life, Spike! [Kristin
laughs] You just can’t—you’re your own worst enemy. Sir.
Kristin: Buffy says Spike got the job done himself, which I didn’t—
Jenny: Blegh!
Kristin: I didn’t like it. I, like—it’s fine. I don’t mean to yuck it if you’re yumming it,
but I didn’t like it myself.
Jenny: I don’t wanna hear them talk about the sex. I don’t want to hear them
compliment each other’s sexual prowess. I simply…no. How do you unsubscribe
from your own podcast, is a question—
Kristin: I don’t know. I tried all morning.
Jenny: This episode made me ask many times, here included.
Kristin: I tried all morning, it didn’t work. I have a lot to say about sex, but I’m
gonna wait until we’re on the balcony of The Bronze. So…
Jenny: [makes grossed-out sounds]


Kristin: Yeah. But notably, Spike says, “I’ve never been with such an animal.” And
Buffy says, “I am not an animal.” And this brings up—which they’ve been poking
this since Spike figured out he could hit Buffy, hurt Buffy. But this—
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm, mmhmm. What’s wrong with Buffy?
Kristin: Right. This underlines the, like—there’s not—I’m not an animal, I’m a
human being, I’m fine. Even though she also desperately believes that she is not
fine. But this is her internal conflict.
Jenny: And then. Spike, no. [Kristin laughs] Spike, don’t. Oh no! He asked, “What
is this to you, this thing we have?”
Kristin: Ohh! Honk!
Jenny: “Do you even like me?” Spike! No! [both laugh] Spike, go smoke in the
corner.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Go kill something.
Kristin: He cannot—he can’t.
Jenny: Like, what are you doing?
Kristin: He cannot keep his shit together. He just can’t keep it together.
Jenny: Then he holds up some handcuffs, perhaps willed to him by Joyce
Summers.
Kristin: Oh my god. That’s complicated in a lot of ways.
Jenny: Mmhmm. And asks if Buffy trusts him.
Kristin: Yes. And she says, “Never.”
Jenny: However…[laughs]
Kristin: Confirming what we’ve known from the beginning, which is that Buffy
definitely is the one handcuffing Spike. Confirmed with visual, later in the episode.


Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: [laughs, sings a little tune] Over to the new lair, which is what I’m calling
this place.
Jenny: Same nerds, different basement. They’re working on something called the
cerebral dampener, which, you know, has a pretty, I think, self-explanatory name.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: And their goal is to make any woman they desire their willing sex slave.
Blegh!
Kristin: Two really contradictory words in that phrase.
Jenny: Oh, right.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Yeah, no.
Kristin: Yeah, not possible. Not—those words don’t go together, so. Yeah, this is
awful. I think we may as well just—there’s so many places to play the Patriarchy
jingle, that like, let’s just fucking get it out of the way.
Jenny: Let’s just get it out of the way.
Kristin: Yeah. So go ahead.
[THE PATRIARCHY jingle plays]
The patriarchy! [thunder clap, evil laughter]
Kristin: To bring up, like, the Peter Frampton vinyl and their fucking nerdy—like,
the glasses they need to wear when they fucking charge the cerebral dampener—
Jenny: Ugh!
Kristin: These, like, red-tinted…whatever. And through the course of the episode—
Jenny: [simultaneously] Like, Oakley wraparounds.


Kristin: Yeah. And through the course of the episode, like, we’ll bring up some
more of these points. But like, their, like, nerdiness and, like, silliness, I feel, is
especially highlighted in this episode, which seems really important. And as you
heard up in the intro, Alba had an incredible conversation with Jess that is linked
here, so that if you want to listen to more, you can hear more. But I really think
that the way in which their, like, innocence is underlined—I mean, not—they’re not
innocent at all. But like, this dichotomy between, like, this horrible fucked-up shit
that they’re doing, existing with this like, “oh, let’s get our little red glasses and,
like, oh, let’s fight over a Peter Frampton vinyl” is really important—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: It’s really important. And we’ll talk about it more as we go on, but I just
wanted to get it at the jump, that that is—
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: That’s like, really the key of the Trio and that’s why, even though I hate
this episode and I hope to never watch it again, it is really—it is a really important
episode in laying the foundation of these three and the—and their role in this
season. So.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: Okay! The cerebral dampener is online, by the way, is what they say
because it is the year 2001. [laughs] And if it’s not online, what’s the point?
Jenny: Meanwhile at the Doublemeat Palace, Buffy’s trying out new catchphrases.
See, she’s really getting into the swing of things. Tara shows up and is like, “Sorry
I’m late.”
Kristin: I can’t believe that you didn’t say “double meat is double sweet.” [laughs]
Jenny: [laughs mischievously] No, I got you to say it.
Kristin: Yeah. You did, you did. Is it because I’m—
Jenny: Ha-ha!
Kristin: Is it because I’m, like, keeping a tally of your 1080P HDs and you know
you have—


Jenny: I don’t know.
Kristin: A limited…
Jenny: I don’t know! I don’t know!
Kristin: Well, it worked. You got me to say it, so fuck you. [laughs]
Jenny: Buffy notes that time has no meaning at the Doublemeat Palace, which
seems correct.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: They go into the breakroom. [Kristin giggles] Kristin. There are—in theory,
there are motivational posters everywhere. But what there actually are, are posters
with one animal type and one word. And so according to the Doublemeat business
model—
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: The avatar of dedication—
Kristin: The mascot of dedication. [laughs]
Jenny: Is alligators.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: The embodiment of productivity is ostriches.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: What?
Kristin: [laughs] I talked about this last week. I told you, these posters are fucked.
You got distracted by Lorraine Ross, but I was all over those posters. [laughs]
Jenny: Is anyone even trying?
Kristin: No. I would like to say, for the record, that this breakup looks fucking good
on Tara. She’s looking good. She’s looking like she has gotten some rest. She has
fucking—


Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: You know what I mean? Like, she’s doing good. She’s taking care of
herself and I appreciate that.
Jenny: Yeah. Which, amen.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: And huzzah. I’m so happy for her.
Kristin: She thinks that—of course, she thinks—I mean, it’s nuts to me that Buffy
would have not assumed that she would have thought this would be about Willow.
She—
Jenny: Right? Buffy!
Kristin: Yeah. Come on.
Jenny: Pull your head out of your ass, again.
Kristin: [laughs] Like, I—yeah. So Buffy corrects her and is like, no, this isn’t about
Willow. Willow’s actually doing really good. But she tells Tara that Spike can hurt
her and that it’s just her, because Tara panics, like, oh no, it’s just the—his chip
doesn’t work anymore? She’s like, no, no, no—
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: The fucking chip is fine. He can only hurt me. And so she asks Tara to look
deeper into the spell, because, as Tara says, “you think it’s you.”
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: Yeah, she says, “I think maybe I came back wrong.”
Jenny: Ahhhh!
Kristin: Mad Dog 2 to Mad Dog 1, I thought I was Mad Dog 2, Mad Dog 3 to Mad
Dog 1. Shut up! Go away.
Jenny: Boys. Boys.


Kristin: Yo, this restaurant is fucking fancy. Who knew that Sunnydale—
Jenny: Yeah, what a—what is this hotspot in Sunnydale?
Kristin: [laughs] This is, like, classy. People are drinking wine. This looks like
something that would be found on the set of Angel Investigations more than it
does—
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: Uh, look like—remember that fucking club they used to go to in Angel? It
was like, [makes rhythmic beat sound]
Jenny: Oh, uh, wasn’t that hell?
Kristin: Hell? Was that the name of the club? With Kate—like, Kate would be there,
sipping her drink at the bar.
Jenny: There’s definitely a club that they go to for at least one episode called Hell.
But I don’t know if it’s the same one as, like, when we meet Kate at the beginning
of the series.
Kristin: Well. You know what, we can ask our enemies. They’ll know.
Jenny: [gasps] Yeah, and then we’ll give them the satisfaction of us not knowing
something. [Kristin laughs] They’ll love that.
Kristin: Anyway. This is a fancy place. And Warren is in there to find—he
knows—he knows that Katrina goes here, obviously. This is why he’s picked this
place. And—
Jenny: Oh yeah.
Kristin: The boys think that they are, like, looking through the camera and they’re
gonna pick out the girl that they can make into their sex slave.
Jenny: Ugh! [makes grossed-out noises]
Kristin: Dude, what the fuck?! Just what the fuck!
Jenny: No. How—


Kristin: You know, there’s plenty—unfortunately, a lot of additional scenes in this
episode. So if you think, oh no, why aren’t they talking about it more? We’re gonna
talk about it a little bit, to be totally honest. Like, we’re gonna talk about it as, I
think, loosely as we can and leave some of the heavy lifting to the ancillary
episode. Because it’s just a lot, and we want you to be able—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: To come to this space and, like, know that maybe you won’t have to relive
this episode, beat by beat. So…
Jenny: Um. [Kristin laughs] I would like to file a formal complaint.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: This episode is so upsetting—
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: For many reasons.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: One of the reasons is—
Kristin: [laughs] Oh no. She’s gonna say it.
Jenny: There is—not just the employment of the word “bazoombas,” [Kristin
laughs] but just before—just before Warren dunks his earpiece in someone’s
martini—gross. Andrew and Jonathan, I believe, start a “bazoombas” chant?
Kristin: [dejectedly] Mmhmm, they do.
Jenny: And what would normally be very enjoyable for me, you know, a cause for
celebration and delight. [Kristin laughs] I can’t even enjoy the bazoombas chant,
because this episode is too upsetting. And therefore, I am mad. I am in a feud with
this show.
Kristin: Yeah. Oh, no, wait. So are we all feuding with the same thing? We’ve just
switched sides?


Jenny: [laughs] Yeah! Yeah, let’s team up with Morgan and LaToya. This season is
not fun. [both laugh]
Kristin: I love this twist for us all. Okay. So. [both laugh] Yeah. So Warren sees
Katrina at the bar. He takes the fucking headpiece out, he tosses it in the fucking
drink, shorting out the boys in the van.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: They’re cut out of this equation, completely. And Katrina—love—love
fucking how Katrina shows up in every moment that she’s in this fucking episode.
She basically looks at Warren and she’s like, no, the only thing fucking wrong was
that I ever lowered myself to be with you.
Jenny: Uh-huh, uh-huh, uh-huh.
Kristin: Correct.
Jenny: Katrina does one thing that I don’t like in this scene.
Kristin: Oh, yeah.
Jenny: And that’s that she calls Warren’s suit “fancy.”
Kristin: [laughs] Okay, fair.
Jenny: That is—that is a JC Penney sale rack…
Kristin: Yeah. That is a shitty suit.
Jenny: Suit.
Kristin: That is a—and it’s too big on him. I think that was probably a—
Jenny: Yeah, it doesn’t—it’s not fitted.
Kristin: A conscious choice by the—
Jenny: Return that thing.


Kristin: Yeah—costume department. But yeah, she says, “Just looking at you
makes me sick.” And then he says, “Are you sure about that?” and he takes the
cerebral dampener out. And she says, “I love you, master.” And he says—
Jenny: Ew.
Kristin: “I love you too.”
Jenny: Ew!
Kristin: And that’s where we stop talking about this fucking episode. Goodbye!
Imagine we just played the fucking song. [laughs]
Jenny: Farewell!
Kristin: Bye! Yeah, so this is really, really fucked up and will just continue to get
more fucked up. So why don’t we go to a happier, happier topic of conversation,
which is, oh my god, what the fuck is this shirt that Buffy Summers is wearing? Oh
my god, oh my god.
Jenny: What does it say?
Kristin: It says, like, Brownie Camp something-something. It’s like, some camp
shirt. [Jenny laughs] But the point is, in case you didn’t—you know, I understand if
you didn’t rewatch this episode. So if you didn’t, I will point out to you something
very important, which is that if you remember the early 2000s, it was a time of
deep distress for T-shirts everywhere. Because…[Jenny laughs] they were being cut
up and resewn together in different formations.
Jenny: Not in a cool way.
Kristin: Nope! Not in a cool way. Buffy’s T-shirt here is off the shoulder, so there’s,
like—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Two little cuffs of green T-shirt around her upper bicep.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Strong county fair vibes.
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah. It’s really bad. It’s really bad. And we—we’re all there. If
you were there, you were there, you know this is true.


Jenny: [laughs] Yeah.
Kristin: This is a true thing that happened to T-shirts.
Jenny: If you know, you know.
Kristin: [laughs] So—
Jenny: If you lived through it, whew!
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Xander’s teaching Dawn to dance.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Which is cute.
Kristin: It is cute.
Jenny: People are entendre’ing without really being aware of it. [Kristin laughs]
Saying things like, “Oh, Buffy, we know you’ve been pounding the [laughing] Big
Evil.” [both laugh]
Kristin: Yeah, it’s pretty good. [laughs]
Jenny: Oh, yeah! She’s been pounding it. Woo-hoo-hoo! Or it’s been pounding her.
Kristin: [simultaneously] “You are looking a little pounded,” says Anya. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Nice!
Kristin: Dawn’s going over to Janice’s. She’s gonna go sleep over.
Jenny: Dawn—I know that Dawn is, like, 16 or whatever, traditionally the worst
age for any human to be alive. [Kristin laughs] I know. I know, I was there one
time and I too was terrible. But like, Dawn. [Kristin laughs] You are living in a


single-income household, with your older sister, who—whose sacred duty is to
defend the world from vampires. And she also has to work a full-time job to support
you and keep you alive. Do you have to be such a little asshole—
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: All the time?
Kristin: Of course she does. Just like—
Jenny: Okay. [laughs]
Kristin: Most of us fucking were. I mean, are you kidding me?
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: Sorry, but I was an asshole and you were an asshole. So we understand—
Jenny: Totally.
Kristin: I mean, I can be upset with Dawn for it. But also, the—and I will say this.
Yes, correct. This is correct no matter which way you slice it. But one of Dawn’s big
narrative chomps in this episode is that she really is upset because she knows that
Buffy was happier where she was. So she feels—
Jenny: Ugh! Yeah.
Kristin: Like Buffy doesn’t wanna be there and Buffy doesn’t want her around. And
that’s, like, really the motivation for—
Jenny: Right, that’s the issue.
Kristin: Yeah—for this and everything else.
Jenny: Okay. Why is Janice’s mom honking? Doesn’t Janice canonically live across
the street?
Kristin: And also, lay off, Mrs. Janice. She fucking honked the second time, like,
laying on—
Jenny: Yeah, what are you, a teen boy? [both laugh]


Kristin: Ahh. So…off Dawn goes.
Jenny: Oh, no. Oh—sorry. Before I have to say “oh no,” Buffy decides to go drink a
bunch of booze with her friends.
Kristin: Frosty nectar. I do like that.
Jenny: [simultaneously] At The Bronze. Yeah.
Kristin: [simultaneously] I would like to call my beer “frosty nectar” from now on.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Oookay.
Jenny: Now oh, no!
Kristin: Now oh, no.
Jenny: Oh, no, there’s another scene. Oh, no. [groans] Oh, no.
Kristin: [simultaneously] You know what? Yeah, let’s just fucking—so they’ve got
Katrina at the new lair. And of course, they—of course, they have her in a fucking
maid outfit, because they’re fucking assholes and—
Jenny: [distressed] Oh my god.
Kristin: They have her serving them champagne, which—what, did they fucking
steal this shit? This looks like some Veuve. Like, where—what—how did they get
this fancy bottle of fucking champagne? I don’t want an answer, so don’t answer
me. And this is where we get more of this shit, right? “Gentlemen, tastes like
crime.” And you know, Andrew is funny. He’s funny, right? So he’s like, “Crime
tastes funny.” And it’s funny! You laugh. You—well, I didn’t laugh now. But like,
initially, you laugh. Like, it’s funny and it’s really disarming. And that’s—that’s the
point. And I’m not gonna, like, go too hard on this ‘cause I think you get what I’m
saying. But like, the point is that we’re laughing at Andrew and Andrew’s
doing—complicit in something that is absolutely, horrifically…horrible.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Horrifically horrible.


Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: This whole—this whole situation, I don’t even wanna talk about it, Jenny.
The, like, stuff that Warren says about why he is, uhh, into Katrina. Like, I can’t
even—it’s bad.
Jenny: Ew.
Kristin: It’s bad. I don’t wanna waste any of my breath on it, even though I know
that we are podcast hosts. [laughs] Our job is literally to waste our breath.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: [clears throat] And they talk about what they’re gonna do next. And then
Warren, of course, is like, me first. I can’t even—like, I don’t even wanna—I don’t
know how to even, like, quickly describe this scene so that I don’t have to talk
about it. Because it’s—anything that I say is horrific.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: What I will say is that Katrina comes to. The cerebral dampening starts to
wear off. She calls him Warren, and my favorite part of this scene is that—
Jenny: Hell yeah.
Kristin: Fucking Warren goes flying out of the door. Like, Katrina has—
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: Katrina is a fucking fighter, man. She—she throws him across the fucking
room! Yes, ma’am. Yes, ma’am. And she also gives this, like, very important
fucking speech about how fucked up all of this is and that is not a game, that what
this is is rape. She uses the word rape. And I think that that’s really important for a
million-billion reasons. And you can listen to, like, at least half a million of them in
the conversation that Jess and Alba have. But I think that it was possible to do this
episode without naming it.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And I think it’s really important that the word is used and that Katrina is
the one who speaks it. That feels very important to me, as much as I hate this and
don’t ever wanna watch it again.


Jenny: Yeah. And also the fact that, somehow, everyone in the room who isn’t
Katrina is like, wait, what? No! [fake-laughs] Wha—rape? Whoa!
Kristin: [simultaneously] Well, Warren—I think—yeah. Warren, I think, knows what
the fuck is up. But yeah, Jonathan and Andrew seem, like, absolutely horrified by
this.
Jenny: Also, when it becomes evident that Katrina and Warren used to date, the
other boys say, “oh, she’s your ex?”
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: “That is messed up.” Why is that messed up?
Kristin: [simultaneously] Why is that messed up? Yes. Yes. Exactly. Exactly.
Jenny: And—as opposed to what they thought the plan was.
Kristin: Yes. So what happens next is horrible. Horrible on horrible.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: It’s a horrible sandwich. The bread is horrible and the contents of the
sandwich are also horrible.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Katrina tries to escape. Again, she’s really giving a good fight. She
scratches Warren on the face and she kicks him. But he hits her and…kills her.
[Jenny exhales] We’re not—we’re not putting the segment that Jess and Alba
recorded together in this episode. But I did wanna play just one small snippet of it
that has to do with some of the violence that happens here and the
complicitness—complicity? [laughs]—of Jonathan and Andrew. So we’ll just give you
a little bit and then if you wanna listen to the whole thing, you can and you should
and the link is in the show notes.
[Clip starts]
Jess: If we’re thinking about what could’ve prevented this moment? I think consent
education, sexual violence prevention education could not have prevented Warren


in this moment from doing this. I think Warren—there’s a very small percentage of
men who, even given all of the education in the world—
Alba: Mmm.
Jess: Warren has—would still commit an act of sexual assault. And I think Warren
is one of those people.
Alba: Mmm.
Jess: That anger is just so intense and the anger directed at women, especially.
[Alba groans] And—which is, ugh! Awful. I think Andrew and Jonathan, given the
right education and the right change in culture around them, could have been the
people to stop Warren. And said, hey, this isn’t okay. Wow, yeah, the cerebral
dampener thing sounds really cool, but hey, we could have used it to rob a bank
instead of to sexually assault somebody.
Alba: Mm, yeah…
Jess: Also the fact that they immediately went to sexual assault with the cerebral
dampener—
Alba: Yeah.
Jess: Is telling. That their ability to have power over someone immediately is
connected to power over them sexually.
[Clip ends]
Kristin: So…yeah. The point that I would like to give to Warren in this dialogue
is—that happens right after this—is that Jonathan says, “What did you do?” And
Warren says, “We did this. It’s on all of us.” And Warren is correct. They did all do
this. They did all do this, because even if Warren was going to do this, if Jonathan
and Andrew were there and were aware and were able to step in and intervene,
Katrina would be alive. I mean, Katrina wouldn’t even have been there, because
they would have intervened before that. And that’s important and that didn’t
happen.
Jenny: Yeah. Uh…Warren certainly doesn’t do this for a noble reason. Or because
he, you know, values—
Kristin: No.


Jenny: Shared responsibility.
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah, no.
Jenny: But…
Kristin: No, he does it because he doesn’t want the—he doesn’t wanna fucking
take the blame. But he is—he is correct in the fact that, like, they are complicit.
And they only become more complicit. They’ve had so many chances to not be
complicit. They had a chance before they ever fucking went to this stupid basement
lair, the first one. They had a chance before the cerebral dampener was made. They
had a chance in the van to say, actually, man, this is fucked up.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: They had a chance downstairs. They have had a million-billion chances. So
they’re all complicit. This is fucked. They immediately begin referring to Katrina not
as a person. In, like, very stark contrast to the way the term “body” is used in The
Body.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm. They have a very uncomfortable conversation about
ways in which they can dispose of the body.
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: Jonathan notes that it is too big to teleport.
Kristin: And he slips. He says “she’s” and then—
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Very, very pointedly corrects himself to “it’s…”
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: “Too big.” Andrew was, you know, like, thinking about demons that might
be able to—whatever. This is—it’s just all awful.
Jenny: Yeah. It’s gross.


Kristin: And Warren is like, two problems. The body and the Slayer. Because
they’re immediately—this is kind of bizarre-o anyway. Like, why is their first
concern the Slayer? They have just killed someone. That is not—I mean, I guess
there were mystical things involved. But it’s just—it’s a little bizarre to me—I guess
because they’ve positioned themselves in their minds as like, these, like, mystical
crime lords?
Jenny: As her arch nemesis-sis-ses!
Kristin: Right, right, right. But anyway, Warren concocts this idea that we will see
played out, later in the episode, in order to solve all of his problems.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: I’d like to solve all of his fucking problems, I’ll tell you what.
Jenny: Yeah, with a fist! [Kristin laughs] In his face!
Kristin: Exactly. So hey. Remember another thing, besides the atrocities done to
T-shirt material in the early 2000s, which is swing dancing?
Jenny: [sighs] Yeah.
Kristin: It was, like, a big thing, in case you weren't there.
Jenny: [simultaneously] People were like, mm! Cherry poppin’ daddies.
Kristin: [laughing] Yeah!
Jenny: Squirrel nut zippers.
Kristin: [laughs] Wow! That was good. I can’t believe you got…two.
Jenny: There was a Christian swing ska band called The W’s that I was briefly into.
Kristin: Hell yeah. Get it, Jenny. [laughs]
Jenny: The opposite of hell, yeah, actually. [both laugh]
Kristin: Heaven yeah.
Jenny: [laughing] Yes! [Kristin laughs] Yeah, they’re just going for it. Swingin’.


Kristin: Swing—I mean, in case any of you are confused and you’re thinking, like, I
thought swing originated a lot before the early—it did. It was a resurgence of
swing, okay?
Jenny: Yes. Yes!
Kristin: You had to be there.
Jenny: The hit things become popular—everything old is new again!
Kristin: It’s true.
Jenny: Cyclically.
Kristin: Look out, it could happen to you!
Jenny: It will happen to you!
Kristin: It will.
Jenny: Listen, Gen Z. One day, [Kristin laughs] somebody’s gonna pop up into your
feed and tell you that only stupid old Gen Z’ers would have middle parts. [Kristin
laughs] What a bunch of losers. Ha-ha! Middle parts were really cool when we were
in high school. And then what happened?
Kristin: It’s true!
Jenny: Then—[yells] what happened to us will happen to you!
Kristin: [laughs] It’s true!
Jenny: Anyway.
Kristin: It’s true. She’s right. When she’s right, she’s right. Buffy’s choker is next
level in this scene.
Jenny: I do not recall it.
Kristin: [simultaneously] It is like a Jordan Catalano shoelace, but it is—
Jenny: Oh.


Kristin: Five million miles long. And it is tied in the front, so that you get a little—
Jenny: Oh, right!
Kristin: Sprigs of leather that are just—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: A little flourish on the choker.
Jenny: It’s cool. It’s good, I think it’s good.
Kristin: Yeah. It’s good. It’s great, yeah. I would have definitely been into myself if
I wore a choker like this—
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: In the early 2000s.
Jenny: I think Buffy looks great in this scene, and I think Willow has—
Kristin: Oh my god.
Jenny: A collection of good outfits? For the whole episode? Is that right?
Kristin: I can’t believe I let it slip by. Jenny, Willow is wearing a goddamned
blazer! She’s wearing a blazer!
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: She looks great.
Jenny: Yeah, she’s ready to go to the library and—
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Do some computer research.
Kristin: Or the lesbian bar. She’s ready for whatever life throws her way. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah. Correct.


Kristin: Buffy checks in on Willow, which is a very brief moment, but I think it’s
just important, you know? Because we’ve seen these two really miss each other so
much. And—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: You know, she just says, “How are you doing, Will?” And that’s really nice.
And Willow answers and says, “You know, it’s easier when I’m not alone.” Which is
also—
Jenny: Aww! Buddy.
Kristin: Like, a really honest answer. It’s just like, a really—you know, we get, like,
seven healthy exchanges in the whole season. So I just feel inclined…[both laugh]
Jenny: You wanna celebrate them as they happen.
Kristin: [laughing] To point them out as they happen. Okay. “We know you’ve
been all tied up,” Willow says [Jenny cackles] when Buffy’s like, oh, I’m sorry that I
haven’t been around.
Jenny: We know you’ve been all tied up, getting pounded by the Big Evil. [both
laugh]
Kristin: So, oh. Laugh while you can, because then Buffy gets up—[Jenny groans]
Willow goes to dance with Xander and Anya. And Buffy’s like, I’m gonna go get
another beer but then she kind of puts her empty cup down and she goes up to
the—
Jenny: No…
Kristin: Rafters. Nothing ever—
Jenny: No…
Kristin: Nothing good ever happens up there.
Jenny: No.
Kristin: Has anyone ever gone up there—


Jenny: They should remove the balcony entirely.
Kristin: Remove it! [laughs] Get rid of it! Buffy goes upstairs and she’s…this is
really beautiful, in a horrible way. It’s—I think it’s really beautiful when she first
goes up and she’s looking down on them. Because it’s such a powerful visual
representation of how you feel when you are moving through depression—
Jenny: When you have recently been resurrected—
Kristin: [simultaneously] When you’ve recently been resurrected, yes. [laughs]
Jenny: Plucked out of heaven against your will, of course, we’ve all been there!
Kristin: But yeah, it’s just—you know, you really do feel outside of—I mean…
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: I’m somebody who has had very, very intense wrestling matches with
anxiety. Anxiety is my big bad, more than depression is. And you know, dissociating
from myself is, like, the—kind of the peak of panic attacks for me. And really feeling
like I am outside and above the—you know, everything that I’m seeing. And so, I
think that—I just really, really found this visual to be a beautiful representation of
Buffy’s mental state right now.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: So bravo.
[pause]
Jenny: But then…
Kristin: [laughs] I just looked at Jenny, like, can we stop now?
Jenny: Yeah. Unfortunately, she’s not alone. Because here is Spike and he’s all,
[exhales creepily] “You try to be with them, but you always end up in the dark with
me.” [laughs quietly]
Kristin: He’s very, like, positioned as the devil on her shoulder. You know? Like—
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah.


Kristin: It’s…
Jenny: Yeah. I have a question.
Kristin: Yes. Is it tiny?
Jenny: Are they having sex—are they having actual…well, not that this is the only
definition of sex—
Kristin: [simultaneously] I think they’re finger—I think it’s a finger-bang. I think
it’s a good old finger-bang. The old-fashioned—
Jenny: [laughs] It’s a finger-bang, it’s not a full monty.
Kristin: I think—yep. I think it’s a good old fashioned—
Jenny: [laughing] A good old fashioned finger-bang. [both laugh]
Kristin: Yeah. So—
Jenny: Okay. Thank god, because I was really questioning the mechanics.
Kristin: Yeah. I mean, they’ve already—
Jenny: I have so little data to work with, but it just really was—
Kristin: They’ve already had sex through an ankle-length leather skirt, [Jenny
laughs] so—and underneath a heavy carpet. So you know, they’re just—
Jenny: They are both preternaturally strong, so—
Kristin: It’s true.
Jenny: You know, what do we know…about…
Kristin: It’s true.
Jenny: That.
Kristin: But before the finger-banging. B-F-B. [both laugh]
Jenny: Yes? Pre-finger-bang.


Kristin: [laughs] Spike is standing behind Buffy. And he’s like, talking—and this is
not the first time in the season, since they’ve been having sex, that he has, like,
made commentary on the crazy things that she does in bed and how fucked up it is.
And like, he really drives it home here when he’s like, “What would your friends
think of you if they knew what you did?” And he means sexually.
Jenny: Eek!
Kristin: And this is—
Jenny: Eeeek!
Kristin: Yeah, it’s really uncomfortable and it’s really not okay. Because, like, what
the show—’cause now, we’re out of the—now take it outside of Spike and Buffy.
Because now we’re in the writers’ room. And like, really what is being chosen is this
connection that some kinds of sex are bad and some kinds of sex are good. And I
don’t like that. This scene is really uncomfortable. I will say that in reading about
this episode, Sarah Michelle Gellar disliked—like, has gone on record to say she did
not like the way Buffy was treated in this episode. The quote is, “I had trouble with
the one where Buffy had sex with Spike—” Oh, she has said “had sex.” But what
does sex mean, really? “On the—”
Jenny: Well, they do fuck in the beginning of the episode. Oh—
Kristin: No, on the balcony.
Jenny: She says had sex on the balcony?
Kristin: Yeah. She specifically is talking about this scene, on the balcony—“while
watching their friends. I really thought it was out of character and I didn’t like what
it stood for. That was the moment that I had the most problems with.” And then
the writer, Steven DeKnight, said, “I totally understand why that part made Sarah
uncomfortable. I wish that I could say it was my idea but it's something that Joss
Whedon had in the back of his head for a year.” "
Jenny: Ughhh!
Kristin: “It just so happened that it happened in my episode.” So…you know, I
think—I think—
Jenny: [groans]


Kristin: This is complicated. Right? This is—we’re in a—and Morgan and LaToya
actually touched on it last week. Because we’re all in a very particular point in
Angel and Buffy. And I think it’s—I think it’s just important to point out that what is
happening with the Trio and Katrina, and what is happening with Spike and Buffy.
There’s really important conversations to be had there, but there’s also—we also
know a lot more about the mind which some of these storylines came from. And I
think that it’s just important to remember that—to remember that connection. But
you know, it’s—I think that, like, in this conversation and in this podcast, we
attempt to hold two things at once. We att—well, more than two, but. We attempt
to hold the fact that the creator—one of the creators of this show is very
problematic. And that that—that problematic brain is part of the creation of this
stuff. And also, that some of the things that happen in these stories give us really,
really, really important ways to talk about fucked up shit. So…you know…
Jenny: [groans]
Kristin: Just putting it all…on the table, if you will. But no one liked this scene! No
one liked it.
Jenny: You know. Nemesis of the pod, LaToya Ferguson—
Kristin: I was like, this could go anywhere. [both laugh]
Jenny: And Morgan, actually, on their other vampire podcast, The AMPire Diaries—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Frequently—where they are in the show right now, are often saying, I
should be horny right now. But unfortunately, like, the way that we got here—
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Precludes me—
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: Prevents me—
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: From being horny.


Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: How dare they take that away from us?
Kristin: How dare they is correct. I agree with our nemesis-es. [both sigh]
Jenny: I should be horny right now! [clears throat] Okay.
Kristin: I mean, honestly. Like, no—who doesn’t wanna just hang out, watching
two people who really like each other [Jenny laughs] finger-bang on a balcony—
Jenny: [laughing] Oh my god. Kristin Russo is actually in the middle of her
whole—getting her doctorate. [both laugh] She’s pursuing a 1080PhD right now.
[both laugh] Crying, screaming from the rooftops to anyone who will listen that she
wants to watch two people finger-bang. [both laugh] Alright, alright, alright, alright!
We get it!
Kristin: I’m only at 720. I haven’t made it all the way up [both laugh] to 1080 yet.
So…
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: Taking us out of this really fucked up scene. There’s probably, like, a whole
fucking paper you could write on this—is Xander making a joke about his jive
muscle. He has—he’s—and it should be funny and cute. It’s just that there’s all this
other complicated shit happening and I’m confused.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: So Xander’s like, LOL, I pulled a jive muscle. It’s positioned to be this, like,
very cute, nice, vanilla moment between Xander and Willow.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah. Uh…you know, and I think Willow says something like, the
funky monkey claims another victim.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Then they bump into Tara, and there’s a lot of sputtering.
Kristin: Mmhmm.


Jenny: And Xander says, “I’m gonna go…uh, give Anya a head’s up about the
monkey situation.” And Tara says, “There’s a monkey problem?” and Willow says,
“Only if you don’t stretch first.” Which reminds me about how much people in this
universe get left in the dark for our enjoyment. [Kristin laughs] Tara has no fucking
idea what’s going on with the monkey, and she never gets to find out. For us—so
we can have a laugh.
Kristin: What is the line that Oz says to Willow? Isn’t it also about monkeys? And
animal crackers?
Jenny: Uhh, hippos.
Kristin: Hippos.
Jenny: Monkeys—I think he says the monkey has pants and the hippo doesn’t have
pants—
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And the hippo’s like, “my hippo dignity.”
Kristin: Huh.
Jenny: I think so.
Kristin: Right? That’s interesting. I just—I’m just throwing that out—
Jenny: Hmm.
Kristin: That one’s for you, listeners. Just pick that animal cookie, uh, fucking
monkey business up. You do with it what you will.
Jenny: Yeah. Also, if I got them reversed, I apologize. Lately, there’s been a rash
of people starting to listen to the podcast [Kristin laughs] and lamenting about how
many mistakes we make all the time. And they wish they could have been there to
correct us in real time. Don’t worry, everyone listening at any moment in time.
Anything that we have mis-spake has been corrected for us on Twitter, Instagram,
Facebook and in our Gmail inbox, a hundred-fold—
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: So you don’t—rest easy.


Kristin: Love to be corrected.
Jenny: [simultaneously] No mistake has gone un-corrected.
Kristin: Yes. We are—we’re wrong all the time. That’s part of our—it’s part of our
charm. [laughs]
Jenny: Mmm!
Kristin: So Willow says, in this conversation that happens post-monkey confusion,
that she’s been doing quite well. And she’s 32 days sober from magic. And you
know, she talks about how she can be at the Magic Box now, but somebody needs
to be with her. Really honest, really, um—just very lovely exchange between these
two. She says, “I understand if you were checking on me.” And Tara is like, no, no,
like, I would never—like, that is absolutely not what I was doing. So it’s a nice
exchange between them.
Jenny: Also, there’s this nice thing about, like, you know, Tara’s saying, like, “Oh, I
was looking for Buffy.” And Willow’s saying, like, “She’s not around lately, we miss
her.” And Tara saying, like, “I’m sure she misses you too.”
Kristin: She misses you too.
Jenny: “And! I’m glad you’re doing better.” Tara, being a good Tara, actually.
Kristin: Tara. Seriously.
Jenny: Classic Tara. Nice, nice stuff vibes.
Kristin: Yeah. Then we go to the cemetery and I’m like, why do I have so many
feelings? Oh, it’s because fucking Gavin Rossdale of Bush is—
Jenny: Dude!
Kristin: Gravelly singing Out of This World, is the name of the song.
Jenny: Mmhmm. What record is that on? Do you know?
Kristin: I looked it up. It’s on a record called Golden State that came out in
October of 2001.


Jenny: Hmmm.
Kristin: I was a massive Bush fan. I saw them in concert, but I really was only
familiar with Sixteen Stone, which was their first album.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: There were two others between Sixteen Stone and Golden State. And then
Golden State—
Jenny: I know Razor Blade Suitcase.
Kristin: Yes! That was—
Jenny: Oh, subversive. A raz—a suitcase! [Kristin laughs] But it’s either made of
razor blades or full of razor blades—
Kristin: [simultaneously] Containing razor blades?
Jenny: Or possesses some razor blade essence [Kristin laughs] that is, you know,
indescribable. You just—if you know, you know.
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah, but—oh, but so this album, though—like, they basically,
from ‘94 to 2001, Bush released four albums. And then they didn’t release another
one for ten years after this one.
Jenny: Well, there you go.
Kristin: Also, some other, like, factual things that I found out about this. Let’s play
a little clip of the song, ‘cause it’s quite a good choice, if I do say so myself.
[“Out of This World” plays]
When we die
We go into the arms of those that remember us
We are home now
Out of our heads
Out of our minds
Out of this world
Out of this time


Kristin: So this album, Golden State, Jenny, it came out in October, 2001. And the
original cover was actually designed—it had, like, an airplane on it. And October,
2001, if you are doing the math—
Jenny: Ooh…
Kristin: Right, so they pulled it. And the cover is just the text on yellow, and that’s
the reason why.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Which—it just—you know, I mean, it’s not really relevant, necessarily. It
just felt relevant when I looked it up. And I was like, wow, what a time. Like, what
a time we were in at this moment in general. And like, just knowing, like, this song
was chosen from an album that was impacted by 9-11—just—just…you know.
Giving you a deep—a sea to swim in of thoughts. [both laugh]
Jenny: I’m looking right now at the image that’s on the back of the CD.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: And it’s a photo of the band, and I’m reminded that there’s a guy—we all
know that in Bush, there’s Gavin Rossdale, and then there’s the other three guys.
[Kristin laughs] And one of them has the unfortunate distinction of being the other
guy in the band with hair that’s just slightly longer than his ears, but he isn’t as hot
as Gavin Rossdale.
Kristin: Gavin Rossdale, definitely, like, a lesbian root for me. You know? One of—
Jenny: Sure, yeah.
Kristin: One of the many long-haired, beautiful men that I thought, I am just so
straight! I love this man!
Jenny: [laughing] Yeah.
Kristin: I want to kiss his face and run my hands through his hair! [laughs]
Jenny: [simultaneously] And then his long, flowing hair…his delicate features.


Kristin: [laughs] Well. Jenny, we could wax poetic about Bush and their music for a
long time, avoiding where we go next. But unfortunately, our job demands that we
move forward.
Jenny: Whilst Gavin Rossdale sensually croons at us! Buffy is walking through
the—[gruff voice] ugghh, she’s walking through the cemetery and goes right up to
the door of Spike’s crypt. And she caresses the surface of the door, and Spike, on
the inside, caresses the door back. And they’re all like, ugh, I can fucking feel you!
[Kristin laughs] I’m gonna fuck you right through this door, ughhh! [Kristin laughs]
Then he throws the door open! Walks outside, open shirt flapping in the cemetery
breeze, but she is gone.
Kristin: She is gone.
Jenny: Buffy has disappeared.
Kristin: This is kind of reminiscent of the orgasm wall, now you’ve brought that up
for me—
Jenny: Oh, true.
Kristin: With your description. Yeah, uh, yeah. This is intense. I couldn’t figure out
if what was happening was intense or if the song was intense. Or if it just all
together became intense.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: The lyrics. Did you pay attention to these lyrics, some of them?
Jenny: Uh…you know, when we die, we go into the arms of the ones that
remember us. And then what happens?
Kristin: “We’re home now, out of our heads, out of our minds, out of this world,
out of this time.”
Jenny: Yep.
Kristin: “Are you drowning or waving? I just want you to save me.”
Jenny: Ahh, mmhmm.
Kristin: “Should we try to get along?” What—this is good—good music choice.


Jenny: Well done, music supervisor.
Kristin: Good, good, A plus music choice. [laughs] Okay. So just when we’re like,
oh, that wall is so sexy.
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: I wanna smooch Gavin Rossdale. There’s a scream in the woods that Buffy
kind of asked for [laughs] when she said, “Please, let me think of anything but this
vampire.” We hear a scream, it’s Katrina. But it’s actually Jonathan as Katrina.
They’ve set up this entire thing, which is—I mean, you know, in execution, it’s—it is
a smart plan. You have to give it credit for that. It’s a horrific plan, but—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: It is smart. They’ve summoned three demons and then they’ve
transformed Jonathan into Katrina. The demons are Rwasundi demons? And
part—we learn later that part of their effect is they make the time—[singing] “Let’s
do the time warp again!”
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: [sings tune]
Jenny: [laughs] Are you okay?
Kristin: I’m great. Little Anthony Stewart Head, fucking, Rocky Horror Picture
Show overlap for everybody. They love me.
Jenny: What about Anthony Stewart Head and Rocky Horror Picture Show?
Kristin: He was in Rocky Horror Picture Show, live, in—I think—London. You’ve
seen the photos.
Jenny: As Frank-N-Furter?
Kristin: Ah, yes. Frank. N. Furter. Are you looking at the photos right now? Are you
seeing the—
Jenny: Yes.


Kristin: Be-boa’ed Anthony Stewart Head?
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Yeah, it’s pretty good.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: See, this is why you have to listen to the podcast. Even episodes that are
very, very hard to get through, we wind up talking about fucking Anthony Stewart
Head as Frank-N-Furter in a boa.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: You never know what can happen around here.
Jenny: [groans] Okay, so we—[laughs] so we see all these things happen kind of,
like, out of order. But basically, the long and short of it is—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: The nerds do a thing that make Buffy think she hits Katrina and kills her.
Kristin: Yes. And we end—
Jenny: Also, Spike punches a hole in a demon.
Kristin: Oh my god, his whole fist goes through the back of the demon. It’s very
gross. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: So, yeah, this scene ends with, like, Katrina down at the bottom of, like,
the hill in the woods. And Buffy’s like, I killed her. What—she’s dead, I killed her,
what did I do? And Spike—you know. Fucking massive points for Spike, from like,
here basically till the end of this fucking episode. Because he gets—he’s like, we
need to get you home, right now. Like, we need to get you into your bed and I will
deal with this. You know, and he knows—what he knows is correct. There’s
absolutely no universe in which Buffy should involve the police. I mean, really, hard
stop. At this point, we all know that. But even in a world in which we’re not like
“fuck the police,” she’s a fucking Slayer! She—what is she gonna say to them? And


that’s basically what he says to her later. Like, what are you gonna tell them? There
were fucking demons in the woods—
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And that you’re the fucking chosen one? Like, what are you thinking?
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: Anyway, I’m getting ahead of myself. [Jenny laughs] ‘Cause as you can
tell, I have a lot of feelings. [laughs] He gets her home.
Jenny: He gets her home. You know. He’s telling her it was an accident and that
he’ll sort it out. Thank goodness. Meanwhile, Katrina melts back down into…
Jonathan. [Kristin laughs] And so, we’re—you know, we’re left with zero questions
about how this was done and by whom.
Kristin: Here’s a way that you can have sex with women. Just turn yourselves into
women and have sex with each other. Nobody gets hurt.
Jenny: Ha! [both laugh]
Kristin: Just a thought.
Jenny: I…gotta go. [both laugh]
Kristin: So, right. So—and like, I think that the—apart from, like, the reveal of how
they’ve done this, the only notable thing in the van—the quick van scene we get
here—is that Jonathan, very angrily and full of a lot of conflicting emotions, says to
Warren, “The night’s young. There have to be some more girls we can kill.”
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: ‘Cause they are—you know, as much as they are fully complicit, Warren is
like, [sings jaunty tune], just another fucking day!
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And Andrew and Jonathan are like—
Jenny: No, no, no, no.


Kristin: Understandably fucked up. They’ve literally killed a person.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: So we go to Buffy in bed and we get a dream. We haven’t gotten a dream
in a while. And just in case you forgot, they’re always real fucked up.
Jenny: Yeah. Wah! Spike crawls into bed with her. Then she’s riding Spike! Then
she has a, you know, little nightmare hallucination of Katrina. Then Spike handcuffs
a stake. And then she wakes up! How was that? Was that a good description?
Kristin: Yeah. I mean, ‘cause—it was a good description. There’s a lot of, like,
morphing of Spike to Katrina, Katrina to Spike. They kind of, like, change back and
forth. And I think that, like—the line from the beginning comes back. “Do you trust
me?”
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And Buffy is riding Spike, to use Jenny’s language. And Spike is
handcuffed, which we know is what actually happens in their bedroom. And I think
that what is happening here is that, like, no. Of course, Buffy does not trust Spike,
that’s why Spike is the one in handcuffs. Then she’s on top of Katrina and Katrina is
handcuffed, and she’s saying, “Do you trust me?” And of course, no, Katrina can’t
trust Buffy because Buffy is evil and bad and wrong inside, which is how she feels
about herself. Right? [Jenny exhales] So there’s, like, this…I think that the dream is
positioned to, like, give us this glimpse of how Buffy really, really is feeling like she
is bad and wrong. And she’s connecting that with Spike, and like—
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And that becomes very important in the scene that we’re gonna get to
very shortly, in the police alleyway. But…
Jenny: [strained groan]
Kristin: I think that that’s what’s happening here.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: I’m sure that many of you will have more to say. Please. And please do.
You know, we joke about, like, being corrected or being whatever. But we love
getting all of your information and—


Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: Learning things, genuinely. Let’s go to Dawn’s room, shall we?
Jenny: Ohh, Buffy, no!
Kristin: Yeah, it’s not good. She’s put on—she’s opened up her closet of leather
jackets and said, [Jenny laughs] which is the one for turning yourself into the police
and leaving your sister, who just lost her mother, alone with no guardianship? Oh,
it’s this long brown one. Great. So she comes into the room…
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Michelle Trachtenberg, showing up real good in this scene.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Buffy says, “I hurt someone.” Dawn says, “Is she alright?” Buffy says,
“No.” And the thing that Dawn first does is—
Jenny: Ugh!
Kristin: Give Buffy a huge hug. Right?
Jenny: Ohh, no!
Kristin: And like, this is the truth of it. Like, this is—she is the Slayer. She is not…a
person who has killed someone. She is a Slayer, who in her line of work—I mean,
she hasn’t killed anyone anyway. But even if she had killed Katrina in this thing,
this is not—the reason that you have a chosen family and the reason you have
people around you is to support you when systems cannot. [laughs] And this is—
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: A perfect illustration of this system will definitely not be able to support
Buffy. But her chosen family will, her community will. Her community can help her
move through this. I mean. To be totally honest, they haven’t really been doing a
great job this season so far, but that aside. Dawn shows up for Buffy and Buffy’s
like, “I’m gonna turn myself in.” And Dawn’s like, fuck the police. Literally. I mean,
her face is like, are you fucking kidding me? [laughs] What the fuck are you talking
about?


Jenny: [sighs] Yeah, and it doesn’t take long to get from “what are you talking
about?” to [dramatically] “oh, then just go! You’re not really here anyway. [Kristin
laughs] And I hate you. And you’re stupid and ugly.”
Kristin: Ah, I love when you pretend to be a 16-year-old. It’s great. Yeah. So, then
Buffy goes to the police station, where—Spike is there. Right? ‘Cause Spike fucking
knows her well enough, I suppose, to know…
Jenny: Yeah, of course.
Kristin: What she’s gonna do.
Jenny: Of course.
Kristin: He says what we already talked about, they’re not gonna fucking believe
you. What the fuck? And then she’s like—she goes to say, like, I’ll show them
Katrina. And it’s implied, like, no words are exchanged. And she’s like, “What did
you do?” and he says, “I took care of her.”
Jenny: Oh god. [laughs] He says, “They’ll never find her.”
Kristin: This is funny, this made me laugh.
Jenny: [laughing] Immediately! [both laughing] One half of a beat later, “Oh,
where’d they find her? Oh, they pulled her out of the river.” Didn’t Faith Lehane do
the exact same shit?
Kristin: Yeah—I’m really—actually, Jenny. So we’re gonna go here now, because I
was going to bring up Faith and I didn’t know where.
Jenny: Buffy’s dark lovers are always trying to dump bodies and doing so
ineffectually. [laughs]
Kristin: Yo, so—okay, so like, the Buffy Wiki—the, like, fandom Wiki page. They
had an incredible breakdown of the parallels between Spike and Buffy and Buffy
and Faith. So I’m just gonna read them to you, point by point.
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: Okay?


Jenny: [enthusiastically] Read them to me, point by point, please!
Kristin: [laughs] I mean, I’m sorry. None of them are really sexy, but we can work
together to make them sexy.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Okay, so here are the parallels they laid out. When Buffy confronted Faith
about killing Allan, Faith responded by saying, “Anyway, how many people do you
think we've saved by now? Thousands?” Okay?
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: That’s literally what Spike says to Buffy. When Buffy goes to turn herself
in, Spike tells her, “And how many people are alive because of you? How many
have you saved?” Point number one. Parallel number one.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Parallel number two. Spike’s admission of how he went back and took care
of it was identical to what Faith told Buffy about the death of the deputy mayor.
[laughs] That’s what they call Allan. I keep saying Allan, ‘cause give him his name.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Both attempts failed and the victims were recovered from bodies of water.
Faith said in Consequences, after Buffy slapped her, "There's my girl," the same
answer Spike had for Buffy's attack against him in this episode. [Jenny gasps]
That’s just the second point. There were a lot of points in that second point.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: When Faith accidentally killed someone, Buffy wished—at least until Faith
was—whatever, they make a commentary on Faith. Fuck that. When Faith
accidentally killed someone, Buffy wished to shield her from punishment by the
civilian legal system, in stark contrast to her intention to immediately turn herself
in. And finally—
Jenny: Mmm!
Kristin: When—and this is the part that we haven’t yet discussed, but we’re getting
to the point in this scene when Buffy is punching Spike. We’ll talk about it, but to


that end. When Faith and Buffy are battling each other in separate bodies in Who
Are You?, Faith (in Buffy) starts attacking Buffy (in Faith), seeing herself and finally
coming out of denial. Disgusted in herself, she continues her attack, saying, "You're
nothing! Disgusting! Murderous bitch! You're nothing! You're disgusting." While
Buffy is attacking Spike, she says, "You don't have a soul! There is nothing good or
clean in you. You are dead inside! You can't feel anything real! I could never be
your girl!" And there are the parallels. [Jenny exhales] And some of these were
apparent to me, but not all of them, and when I read them all in a fucking line, I
was like, well, hot damn! That’s intense.
Jenny: [clears throat and groans] Yeah.
Kristin: Jenny’s working so hard trying to make it sexy. She’s just bouncing around
over there, trying to make it sexy.
Jenny: [singing] Ooh, oooh! Girl, I dispose of a body for you! Ooh-oooh! [Kristin
laughs] Dump that body in the river for you!
Kristin: Oh…
Jenny: [singing] Dump the body! Dump-dump the body!
Kristin: My god. I think—
Jenny: [singing] Woo-ooh! [talking] What do you think?
Kristin: I think that the important thing to note—and we’ve noted it before. The
parallels were this strong. But it’s, like—Faith and Spike really are positioned in
similar ways. [laughs] I didn’t mean—
Jenny: [laughs mischievously]
Kristin: Sexily, but. But also, that. But they’re positioned in similar ways in that
they really want Buffy to come more into touch with her full self, and not fight
against the darkness inside of her, for lack of, like, a better way to describe it. I’m
not saying that either of them are—have healthy relationships to themselves or that
the way that they’re doing this with and to Buffy is healthy. But that is really a
common denominator between them, apart from that they both, as we know,
canonically, have slept with Buffy.
Jenny: Hell yeah. [clears throat] Uh…ahh! Well!


Kristin: I did it. I made it sexy.
Jenny: Good job.
Kristin: Thank you.
Jenny: So. After pummeling Spike in the face at length—
Kristin: This is awful.
Jenny: Yeah, I don’t like this.
Kristin: It’s really bad and it really—I mean, you know, I think we kind of
illustrated it by just laying it out with the Faith parallel. But like, it’s very much,
Buffy is beating herself up in this scene.
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: So.
Jenny: Oh, yeah. [both sigh] She walks into the police department—
Kristin: Oh my god. She walks in. And—go back and—go back and fucking watch
it. She walks in and there is a dude on the bench of the police department,
checking her out when she walks into the fucking police department to turn herself
in for murder. There is a dude checking her out.
Jenny: Hmmm.
Kristin: Now, I don’t know whose fucking choice that was. But I think it is
goddamn brilliant. Because it really just fucking drives home the whole thing, right?
Even in this moment—
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: Even in this moment, someone is objectifying her.
[THE PATRIARCHY jingle plays]
The patriarchy! [thunder clap, evil laughter]


Kristin: Okay, Jenny. Now, Jenny. Sorry. [Jenny laughs] I just couldn’t believe it. I
didn’t notice it until my third viewing, and probably no one has ever noticed it
‘cause no one would watch this episode more than once. [both laugh]
Jenny: Okay, so she walks up to the cop on the phone. He can’t talk to her yet
because he’s busy taking down the name of the body’s identification, which is
Katrina S-I-L-V-E-R.
Kristin: Mm.
Jenny: What timing! How convenient!
Kristin: Very convenient. Buffy—the—Buffy pops in the VHS tape recording she has
from I, Robot or whatever—[laughing] what was the name of that episode? It’s
not—
Jenny: I Was Made to Love You.
Kristin: Made to Love You.
Jenny: I Was Made to Love You.
Kristin: [laughs] And she’s like, Katrina? Uh-oh, that is—there’s a connection.
Which is what the boys said, she’ll know that there’s a connection. She did. Warren.
So. We go to the Magic Box. David Lynch gets a shoutout, which I was happy about
because I finally know who David Lynch is.
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: We get this—[Jenny groans] we get information on the demons and the
way they make the time jump around or whatever. And she’s like, “I know Warren
did it, I know Warren killed her.” And she says, “You always hurt the one you love,”
which is importantly, what Spike said to her in the alley. And I also think it’s
important, and I’m sure that most of you listening know this. But like, Katrina was
killed in this episode and statistically, there is a higher chance that an intimate
partner—specifically and mostly, men against women—is the person who is going to
kill you. Right? And I—
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: I pulled up one statistic. There’s a million of them, but like, 1980 to 2008.
Almost one out of every five murder victims were killed by an intimate partner. And


women are more likely to be killed by an intimate partner than by anyone else. So
not going to put too fine a point on it, but just do want to say, that like, this line
has weight. This line is here for a reason, this line is very, very true.
Jenny: Mmhmm. Mmhmm.
Kristin: And it’s important to know it and to sit with it and to think about it and to
unpack it. And you can do more of that, in the conversation that Alba had with Jess.
Jenny: Alright.
Kristin: Dawn’s mad. [both laugh]
Jenny: Dawn’s mad when Buffy is going to prison. Dawn’s mad when Buffy isn’t
going to prison. [Kristin laughs] Dawn is simply mad. [laughs]
Kristin: Yo, so dudes are in the van and they’re like, well, we’re off the hook
because it was ruled a suicide. Um, I’m sorry. What? Come on now! Come on now!
We’ve all watched enough true crime to know that it is pretty—pretty fucking easy
to tell that this was not a suicide.
Jenny: Yeah…
Kristin: But okay.
Jenny: She just threw herself down the hill really hard.
Kristin: And before that, she hit herself in the back of the head with a bottle? Like,
come on.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Who’s fucking in charge over here? Anyway, fuck the guys.
Jenny: Andrew says, “We got away with murder. That’s kind of cool.” No, Andrew!
Kristin: No.
Jenny: No!
Kristin: No.


Jenny: Jonathan, seemingly not convinced, but working hard to blend, says, “Yeah.
Cool.”
Kristin: Yeah, this is fucking—
Jenny: I simply hate this.
Kristin: Yeah, and like, this is the point in the episode where you’re like, wow, that
was fucking—whew! What a—wow. That’s heavy. And then there’s—
Jenny: [laughs] A doozy, if you will.
Kristin: [high-pitched] Another fucking scene! [normal] There’s still another scene
and it’s fucking horrible.
Jenny: You know. It is horrible. However. [Kristin laughs] One thing that we can
say about this scene…is that it features, I think, another occurrence of actually
what I think is Tara’s best use on the show. Which is—
Kristin: That’s true. That’s true.
Jenny: Intense, intimate, emotional moments, alone with Buffy.
Kristin: Yeah, yeah.
Jenny: In The Body—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: And now, again. Different kinds of moments and for different reasons.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: You know, in The Body, Tara is uniquely positioned because she lost her
mother when she was a teenager. And now uniquely positioned because Tara is a
person with magical capabilities who is outside of the group and the only person
Buffy can bring herself—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: To even ask about the spell that was used, and then also, that she can
somehow find a way to be honest with about what’s going on with Spike.


Kristin: Yeah, and I think—I mean, I think the two are connected in the fact
that—you know, if you have gone through trauma and somebody else who has
gone through trauma has reached out to you, to say, like, I know where you are.
That person also becomes, like, a very safe place for you. And so, I do think that
the two are connected in that, like, yeah, Tara is the one that can do magic and can
get to the bottom of this spell. But Tara also is a really safe spot for Buffy in that
she has been through trauma and has reached out to say, I have been through
something like this and I know some of what it feels like and some of how it looks.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: And so, yeah. This—I mean, it is. I just—and, like—I don’t wanna actually
throw this scene away. It’s just—it’s really…heavy. This is where Tara tells Buffy
that, basically, the change in her was akin to a sunburn. That it’s a molecular
change and it would have nothing—like, that slight molecular change might have to
do with why Spike can now hurt her, but that she is still her.
Jenny: Yeah. Buffy is convinced that Tara has missed something. She must have
come back wrong. This—I can’t be myself because I can’t accept—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: My behavior.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: [groans quietly]
Kristin: And this is—you know, again, as somebody—like, in my—I’m sure—I don’t
remember what I’ve talked about and what I haven’t on this podcast. But very,
very briefly. When I was in my late twenties, I started having pretty bad panic
attacks. And I didn’t know—as most people who have panic attacks for the first
time, I didn’t know what a panic attack was. So I literally just thought I was dying,
you know? Like, I didn’t know what was happening to me. And the first thing that I
did, which I think is also common, is like, I went to the doctor. Like, just the regular
doctor. I went to a neurologist and the more that people said, you’re fine, you’re
fine, you’re fine, the more upset I became. Because if I was fine, then was this just
how I was gonna feel forever? Like, that—
Jenny: Yeah.


Kristin: That was the next place I went. And I’m not trying to compare my panic
attacks to, like, what Buffy has gone through. But I do think that this is, like, just
such a good illustration of what it feels like when you feel horrible and you’re told,
like, you’re actually physically fine.
Jenny: Ugh. Ugh!
Kristin: It’s really scary. It’s really, really overwhelming. And we see—I mean,
before we see Buffy, like, collapse into Tara, it’s important to also talk about the
fact that she tells Tara that she’s sleeping with Spike.
Jenny: Yeah. She says, “Why do I let Spike do these things to me?” And Tara says,
“You mean, hit you?” and Buffy says, “No, I mean finger-bang me on the balcony at
The Bronze [Kristin laughs] while forcing me to stare down at my friends!”
Ah-ha-ha!
Kristin: You bitch. I was looking at her, like—like, over Zoom. I was just like,
looking into Jenny’s eyes, like, yeah, take it home, take it home. Go there for the
emotional—and she was like, “finger-bang” and I was like, goddamnit. You tricked
me. [both laugh]
Jenny: Wa-ha-ha-ha-ha!
Kristin: Can I tell you something about a cut—a cut piece of scene here that was
not put into the episode?
Jenny: Yeah, please.
Kristin: I also got this from the Wiki. [laughs] So Buffy was scripted to talk to Tara
about how hard it is to lie to everyone about who she’s sleeping with. And Tara
responded, in the script, "Sweetie, I'm a fag. I've been there."
Jenny: Say that again! [both laugh]
Kristin: I’m not gonna say it again! But that—what? She—it…
Jenny: What?!
Kristin: I mean, essentially, like, Tara was gonna bond with Buffy about lying
about who she was sleeping with. Because she is gay and she had to lie about who
she was sleeping with for a long time.


Jenny: The—“I’m a fag”?!
Kristin: Yes, the line was, “I’m a fag.”
Jenny: What?! [both laugh] Who—what straight-ass straighty McStraightersons…
Kristin: [laughing] I don’t know! I don’t know.
Jenny: I mean, also just, Tara. Like, imagine Tara—
Kristin: Imagine Tara saying that! I mean, could you even imagine? Like, if we’re
in the year 2001—
Jenny: Help.
Kristin: Like, if Andrew was out to himself, he might say that? [laughs]
Jenny: Maybe.
Kristin: Maybe. Tara would never. Anyway, that’s—that part was cut. Thank god,
‘cause we did not need that joke. And that—it’s not even—it’s not—we didn’t even
need that parallel. We don’t need to know that Tara understands hiding who she’s
sleeping with because she’s gay. It’s not the point. So it’s gone. Never speak of it
again.
Jenny: It is interesting to think about, though, because it does draw an even
stronger parallel between this moment and the moment in The Body.
Kristin: Oh, that’s true.
Jenny: The unique positioning.
Kristin: Yeah, that’s true.
Jenny: It’s kind of interesting.
Kristin: Yeah, okay, so write the line—
Jenny: With maybe different dialogue.
Kristin: Yeah, write the dialogue a little better and we accept. [laughs] Fair.


Jenny: Okay. Well.
Kristin: Okay. Well.
Jenny: What a difficult episode. Why don’t we…
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: Sidestep…
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Into a magical land that we can all enjoy?
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: The land of the Sexual Tension Awards!
Kristin: Can’t wait!
[SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays]
Sexual tension award!
Kristin: Nope.
Jenny: [simultaneously] What are you, bent?!
Kristin: Nope.
Jenny: There are no Sexual Tension Awards for this episode!
Kristin: [simultaneously] Absolutely not. Get the fuck outta here.
Jenny: You sicko! Get outta here!
Kristin: Goodnight.
[SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays]
Sexual tension award!
Kristin: Uh…yeah, listen—


Jenny: [simultaneously] Well! We made it.
Kristin: We did it.
Jenny: We did it and we never have to make this episode again!
Kristin: [sarcastically] Wow, good thing this is the turning point of Season 6. It
only goes up from here!
Jenny: [sarcastically] And it’s all sunshine and rainbows—
Kristin: Woo-hoo!
Jenny: Going forward! How nice.
Kristin: [sings happy tune] That’s my song. Oh, by the way, I have a request for
the song, Jenny. I really want it to sound like the Bush song, so…that’s my request.
Jenny: Okay. Great prompt.
Kristin: Thank you.
Jenny: Great prompt.
Kristin: Okay, let’s get the fuck out of here.
Jenny: Yes. [laughs]
Kristin: Thank you—
Jenny: Never to return!
Kristin: Thank you so much for being here with us, as we had to journey through
this episode. It was a really, really, really rough one. Remember that if you want
more—a really quite brilliant conversation from Jess and Alba, to click that link and
go on over and listen to that episode. It’s up in our Patreon feed, but it’s free. It’s
just there because it’s a great way to put up another episode in another RSS feed.
So click on that link, go listen to it. It’s quite brilliant. And if you don’t want to go
deeper into it, we get it. That’s why we put it over there for you so you can make
that choice—
Jenny: Mmhmm.


Kristin: For yourself. [laughs]
Jenny: Your choice.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Yay.
Kristin: Oh my god. [sighs]
Jenny: Well.
Kristin: Well. She’s Jenny Owen Youngs, and…[Jenny laughs] when she’s not—
Jenny: Though I may have—[both laugh] how dare you? Though I may have
sustained a deep, cellular tan, changing me on a basic molecular level, I am still
Jenny Owen Youngs. And when I’m not making this podcast, I’m usually writing and
recording songs. You can learn more about me and hear those songs at
jennyowenyoungs.com. You can listen to my new EP, Echo Mountain. You can give
me a shout on Twitter @JennyOwenYoungs. You can hear my new band L.A. Exes
and watch our music video featuring my dog Frank on a skateboard, flying through
space and time. And you can listen to me talk at length about another petite, blond
protagonist on Veronica Mars Investigations. We’re about to dive into Season 4.
[Kristin gasps] Which I’m very excited about.
Kristin: That’s the new one, right? Newer one.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: People had a lot of opinions about it. I’ve seen none of it. I don’t know
anything about it. All I know about Veronica Mars is what I’ve gleaned from the
Veronica Mars Investigations Twitter account, which is that there are boys and they
get ranked.
Jenny: [laughs] Ranked? No. It’s just hard to tell them apart.
Kristin: Oh, okay.
Jenny: It’s hard to rank them [Kristin laughs] because they all just kind of, uh,
mush together into one brunette mass.


Kristin: Oh, god! I am Kristin Russo. And I kind of wish I had a molecular tan, to
be honest with you. I’m gonna—I’m waiting for the sunshine rays to stay out so
that I can bask in them and molecularly change myself. But when I’m not here,
talking about Buffy the Vampire Slayer with Jenny Owen Youngs, I am doing a
couple of things. One, I’m working with LGBTQ communities. And maybe even more
importantly, working with larger communities to talk about queer stuff, specifically
workplaces and schools. So you can find out more about that work and what I do at
kristinnoeline.com. K-R-I-S-T-I-N N-O-E-L-I-N-E. You can use that spelling to find
me on Twitter and on Instagram. I don’t have another podcast about a petite blond
protagonist, but I do have a Patreon-only podcast with Joanna Robinson, which is
just so fun.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Where we watch movies, usually that I have not seen that are tied to a
theme. We just finished the weirdest trilogy yet. We didn’t—it was a—it was a—
Jenny: What was the theme of the…trilogy?
Kristin: There was nothing. There was no theme. It fell apart, listen. But we’re
back on track for May. The theme is Keanu Reeves. And—
Jenny: Ooooh!
Kristin: Yeah!
Jenny: Is there a John Wick in your future?
Kristin: It might be. Is that your vote? ‘Cause the—right now, we’re doing The
Matrix.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And—
Jenny: Point Break?
Kristin: Yes. Thank you.
Jenny: The Matrix, Point Break and John Wick would be a sick Keanu trill.


Kristin: Yeah. So we’re taking—we’re taking opinions for the third—for the third
movie. And I—
Jenny: Oh my god, you have to watch John Wick.
Kristin: Okay! I—
Jenny: The idea of you not watching John Wick is…unacceptable to me.
Kristin: Okay. Well. You may have the power of attorney here. I don’t know what
that means, but—
Jenny: Nice. [Kristin laughs] Yes.
Kristin: So anyway, yeah. And what—you can come along if you’re a patron of ours
or if you’re patron over at The Storm, their Lost rewatch podcast. You watch the
movies along with us. We chat in Slack, it’s really fun. And we tape an episode
before we watch, where I guess about what I think the movie’s gonna be about.
[Jenny laughs] I am rarely correct. And then we do an episode where we unpack
what we’ve seen. And it’s really fun.
Jenny: Fantastic.
Kristin: I have—I really have such a joyful time talking to Joanna. We just—we
make each other laugh and it’s very chill. And…you know, last episode we talked
about Pokeballs for a really long time.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: And Skip-Its, do you remember Skip-Its?
Jenny: I do!
Kristin: Anyway. Who are we?
Jenny: Well, we’re Buffering the Vampire Slayer and we’re on Twitter, Facebook
and Instagram, @BufferingCast. Or you can email us at
bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com!
Kristin: You can, and you can support the work that we do by becoming a patron.
Bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com will lead you to all of the places that you
need to be. But you can also go to patreon.com/bufferingcast. Join us at one of the


four levels available to you. You get all sorts of cool shit. Music in advance. We’re
doing a live watch of As You Were, an episode that is very, very important to Jenny
Owen Youngs.
Jenny: Ohh! [singsong] What an episode!
Kristin: Preceding our live taping, the next night, which is a ticketed event.
Jenny: [singsong] Yes, yes, yes! Yes, yes, yes!
Kristin: [simultaneously] But yeah, there’s all sorts of fun stuff. We got book clubs,
we got concerts, we got all things, all things. So join us over there and support us
at the same time. And you could also rate and review us, if you’d like. If you feel
like it, go ahead and do it. Well, Jenny.
Jenny: The time has come.
Kristin: Even now, even after this episode, we still, for you, will dust ourselves off
and howl out.
Jenny: Till next time!
Both: Awwwooooooooooooo!
Jenny: Don’t get finger-banged on The Bronze balcony while being forced to stare
down at your friends who are dancing below!
[“Dead Things” plays off the album “Songs from Season Six” by Buffering the
Vampire Slayer]

