Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 7.12: Potential
[CHIME]
Jenny: Hey, everybody!
Kristin: Hello! Just another—
Jenny: [simultaneously] What!
Kristin: Episode. This one is called Potential. And Jenny, I think that the
introduction to the episode Potential also has a large amount of potential. [both
laugh]
Jenny: It cannot be denied. It bursts at every seam.
Kristin: We have a really big announcement, one that made me cry before we hit
record.
Jenny: It’s true.
Kristin: [simultaneously] So I had to not hit record, and then I had to take a few
deep breaths, and then come back to it. So you know, that’s how big of an
announcement this is. We are recording our final episode ever, live, [Jenny gasps
quietly] in New York City, [Jenny gasps] Brooklyn, [Jenny gasps] to be specific.
[Jenny gasps] This September, over two nights. So Jenny, what two nights? Tell
them some things about that, you know?
Jenny: Well! Saturday and Sunday, September 17th and 18th. We will be live at
the Bell House on Saturday. I’ll be playing a selection of music from the entire
scope of the podcast. That’s seven seasons, eight albums. Uh, probably, what? Like,
160 songs to choose from. With a friggin’ live friggin’ band for the first time in the
history of Buffering.
Kristin: Yeah, it’s gonna be really special. It’s the first full night of music that we’ve
done since nearly six years ago, when we were at Brooklyn’s Union Hall and did all
of Season 1’s songs. It was at the end of—
Jenny: Oh, yeah.


Kristin: Season 1. But like, this has never happened before in—with a full band.
And it’s also, like, not happened—even a full night of music like this—since Season
1 of the pod. So—
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: Pretty excited about Saturday. Then Sunday is when we record the episode
known as Chosen, Season 7, Episode 22, live with some very special guests. We will
get many things, I think, stuck in all of our eyes at various points.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: In both evenings, and after all of that, there will be an after party. So after
we’re done with our live recording, we will basically be turning on some sweet 90s
music and dancing and having a good time and celebrating all that we have done
together as a fucking community over the past six years of this journey. So.
Jenny: Hurray!
Kristin: If you’re interested in joining us, it is at The Bell House, and I say that
again because The Bell House is not huge. It’s good sized, but it’s not huge. So like,
we want you to know that this show will likely sell out. We don’t know how fast, but
like, you know. Patrons, as always, you’re gonna get first pass at tickets. You’re
gonna get first pass at tickets and that happens tomorrow, Thursday, May 5th, at
10 AM Eastern time. The link to all of this stuff is in our show notes, and will be all
over our socials today so that you’ll be able to find them. But on The Bell House’s
main site, on bufferingthevampireslayer.com on our calendar, you will find all the
things you need to find. So patrons, tomorrow, Thursday, 10 AM Eastern, your
tickets go on sale. And tickets that are remaining will go on sale to the public at 10
AM on Friday, May 6th, which is also my parents’ wedding anniversary, so take that.
Jenny: Oh!
Kristin: And if you are a patron of ours, just know that you’re gonna get a big long
note from us today that has all of the details and your code to get those tickets in
advance. Saturday, Sunday, September 17th and 18th, New York City. Come party
with us. It will be quite epic.
Jenny: Yes! Just a gentle reminder, we’ll also be live taping it up in Philadelphia on
June 11th and in Chicago on July twent—[laughs] Julys 23rd and 24th. Tickets and
event info can be found at our website, as always.


Kristin: Yes! Hey, it’s also a really special episode today because we’re joined by a
third host. That doesn’t happen too often over here these days.
Jenny: No, no.
Kristin: Today we’re joined by Jessie Blount. Jessie, who is one half of Hashtag
Ruthless Productions, which you probably have heard of because they are the
creators of the podcast The Gayly Prophet and—
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: [simultaneously] EsGAYpe From Reality. Which are about Harry Potter (The
Gayly Prophet) and the Simon Snow series, that’s the EsGAYpe From Reality pod.
So Jessie’s one half of that team, and is with us today—and guess what? She also
hosts a patron-only Buffy podcast, so relevant to probably your interests. We had a
great time with Jessie, a great conversation with Jessie, and also more information
and places where you can find all of those things are in today’s show notes.
Jenny: Yes. Jessie…rocks. You know what else rocks? The results of last episode’s
Sexual Tension Awards. Isn’t that right, Kristin?
Kristin: What was the title of the last—I kinda forget [Jenny gasps] what the last
episode was called?
Jenny: Oh my gosh, well, the episode in question is called [dramatically]
Showtime!
Kristin: Ahh, right. Of course, how could I forget?
Jenny: Okay. Let me lay this out for you. Let me paint you a picture with my
words. Kristin. You noticed a love that dare not speak its name [laughing] in the
last episode. But unfortunately, that love only got 12% of the vote. In fourth place,
it’s the First and Eve.
Kristin: Yeah, it was a weak—it was a weak showing. That’s fair, that’s fair.
Jenny: Next up, a pairing that really shouldn’t be third, and with our listenership,
almost certainly would never be third [Kristin laughs] if it weren’t for what’s coming
up. [both laugh] It’s Willow and Kennedy, with 16% of the vote.
Kristin: We believe in you guys. You’ve got this.


Jenny: Yeah. Just keep going.
Kristin: Better luck next time. [laughs]
Jenny: Mmhmm. In second place, ohh, I’m so happy to see them chugging along.
With 24% of the vote, it’s Xandrew.
Kristin: Yeah, this was the Xandrew with the joystick hand. So I did work hard for
its—[Jenny laughs] it did work hard for its money, you know?
Jenny: Yeah, it sure did.
Kristin: You know who worked the hardest for his money? [laughs]
Jenny: You know who worked the hardest? In first place with frigging 48% of the
vote, [Kristin laughs] it’s Turok-Han and entrances. And Kristin, when I read the
intro doc that you prepared, I first read this as “Turok-Han and entrances,” [Kristin
laughs] what happened in this episode? Well, I guess I was entranced. [snorts]
Kristin: Yeah. I mean, I think that, like, part of this award show go to you and me
and the listenership for creating a Twitter thread of Turok-Han entering to various
music. [Jenny laughs] Which really, I think, put it over the top. Great work,
everyone.
Jenny: Yeah, that’s true. That’s true.
Kristin: Yeah. Okay, so congratulations, Turok-Han and entrances. Your trophies
are in the mail.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Turok-Han is a pile of ash now, but I’m sure he’ll still appreciate the award.
Jenny: Oh yeah.
Kristin: Okay. Two quick things. I’m not gonna read an email today, because we’ve
got a big, long conversation and also we had a hell of a lot of announcements. But I
just wanna let our patrons know that there are a few things heading your way. First
of all, this Friday, you’ll finally get the mailbag that you’ve wanted so dearly. [Jenny
gasps] So that’s exciting. And we talk about a lot of really fun stuff in this mailbag.
We talk about the book, we talk about the end of the podcast, we talk about, like, a
lot of things. So that’ll be in your feeds this Friday. And then also, patrons, we—you


know we finished our Firefly watch, but we are ending it with a watch of Serenity.
That is happening in our Discord on May 21st at 5 PM Eastern. And then, a
reminder that after we finish Firefly with Serenity, we’re moving to Yellow Jackets in
June.
Jenny: Ooh! Buzz-buzz!
Kristin: Buzz-buzz. Our first watch-along will be Thursday, June 16th, 8 PM Eastern
in the Discord. Patrons, you’ll get a note about all of these details. And basically,
we’re gonna do a watch every other Thursday, and every other Friday, you’re gonna
get an episode where Jenny and I talk about two of the episodes of Yellow Jackets
that have preceded that conversation. So all of those details to come your way.
Man, what an intro. I guess this is what it’s like to end a podcast series. [Jenny
laughs] You just have a lot to fucking say!
Jenny: Everything’s happening! All at once!
Kristin: [simultaneously] Everything is all happening—literally everything is
happening all at once, great. [laughs]
Jenny: Hell yeah.
Kristin: Alright, let’s get into this episode and find out what Jessie has to say about
Dawn not being a Potential.
[Buffering theme plays]
Jenny: Hello. And welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast where we
are watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, one by one,
spoiler free, in tandem with my best gal pals from swing choir, Angel On Top.
[Kristin laughs] I am Jenny Owen Youngs!
Kristin: And I am Kristin Russo, and I feel like to maintain feud status, I will have
to say that I’m a member of marching band, in this scenario. [both laugh] This
week, we’re talking about Season 7, Episode 12, Potential. Stay tuned at the end of
the podcast every other week for an original song, written by Jenny, recapping the
Buffy episode we are discussing.
Jenny: Potential was written by Rebecca Rand Kirshner, directed by James A.
Contner, and originally aired on January 21st, 2003.


Kristin: This is the one where, according to IMDB, “Buffy takes the Potentials to a
demon bar and then to Spike’s crypt.” Is it Spike’s old crypt? I didn’t even realize
that. No, that’s a lie, IMDB.
Jenny: No. [laughs]
Kristin: Yeah, a lie—
Jenny: IMDB, how dare you?
Kristin: IMDB, fully lying. So I’ll revise it for IMDB. “Buffy takes the Potentials to a
demon bar and then to a vampire nest—”
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: “In order to teach them the art of slaying. When Willow casts a spell to
seek out the next Potential, the spell leads them to believe that Dawn may be a
future Slayer.” This is also the one where we have a special guest!
Jenny: Hurray!
Kristin: Hurray indeed.
Jenny: Woo!
Kristin: We’re joined by Jessie Blount. Jessie, hi!
Jessie: Hello.
Kristin: Welcome to the pod.
Jenny: Hello!
Jessie: I’m so excited to be here and to talk about this episode.
Kristin: This has been—
Jenny: [simultaneously] [singsong] Yes!
Kristin: Like, a trio long in the making, I feel like. [Jessie laughs] We know
Jessie—and you may know Jessie—as one of the hosts of The Gayly Prophet, which


is a—well, you should describe what it is. But I imagine it as a queer lens on the
Harry Potter series. Is that close to correct?
Jessie: Yeah. Yeah, we are—we actually say that it’s a humorous yet ruthless
podcast.
Kristin: Hell yeah. [Jenny and Kristin laugh]
Jessie: Because we…hilariously, you know, do a deep-dive analysis of each chapter
of the books. And we’re not afraid to rip it to shreds. Or rip apart the literal ghoul
who wrote it, so.
Kristin: Yeah, it’s had to be a really great journey. A really great journey. [Jessie
laughs]
Jenny: [simultaneously] [sarcastically] Hm, trying to think of something bad that
ghoul did. I’m just, mmm.
Jessie: Yeah, I know. [laughs]
Kristin: [sarcastically] It’s hard. You have to really reach.
Jessie: Yeah. Yeah. You have to really dig on the internet to find out—[laughter]
Kristin: Yeah, it’s super buried.
Jessie: [simultaneously] What a garbage fire person that she is.
Kristin: Oh, lord. [sarcastically] Well, we don’t have any experience whatsoever
with dealing with problematic creators, so you’ll have to tell us what that’s like.
[laughter] At a different time. [laughter] But—[everyone laughs] but Jessie,
tell—you know, that’s how we sort of, like, met you and your cohost Lark, and sort
of, like, came into each other’s orbits. But do you wanna talk a little bit more about
the work that you do? Because it certainly does not stop with The Gayly Prophet.
Jessie: Yeah. So we actually have—we’re actually doing three podcasts at the
moment, under Hashtag Ruthless Productions. So we have The Gayly Prophet,
which is about Harry Potter. We also have a podcast, EsGAYpe From Reality, where
“esGAYpe” is spelled E-S-G-A-Y-P-E where we are doing a close reread of the Carry
On series. Which is also about a chosen one at a magic school, but it is actually gay.
[laughs] There’s an actual gay love story in it.


Kristin: Hell yeah.
Jessie: Which is always great. And then we have a Patreon-exclusive Buffy podcast
called We Are the Gayers, where it is a—
Jenny: Ha!
Jessie: Where we spoil everything and we are going in the order of which seasons
Lark and I like best. So we are—[Kristin laughs]
Jenny: Wow.
Jessie: We are currently—we’re nearly done—
Kristin: Amazing.
Jessie: We’re nearly done with Season 4 on our podcast. And then we’ve yet to
reveal which season is next, but it’ll be my pick for my favorite season.
Kristin: So have you done Season 2 and 3 already?
Jessie: No. We started with Season 4.
Jenny: [incredulous] Lark’s favorite season is Season 4?!
Jessie: Yes.
Jenny: Incredible! I love it!
Kristin: [simultaneously] Incredible! Wow, you and Lark need to—yeah.
Jessie: [simultaneously] And I will say, Season 4 is in my top three seasons of
Buffy, so.
Kristin: Hell yes.
Jenny: Nice!
Kristin: Hell yes for everyone but me. I’m getting kicked out of the club in this.
[laughter]


Jessie: And I mean, I understand the criticism of Season 4. There’s a lot of
unevenness, but it—there’s a lot of really fun episodes in that season. And some
really good Spike—
Jenny: Oh yeah.
Jessie: Stuff there too. so.
Jenny: Ooh-hoo, yes.
Kristin: So clearly, you’ll be able to find all of this in the show notes today and on
our socials and in all of those places. But the fact that you’re doing a Buffy podcast
leads us to believe that perhaps you have some experience with this sh—do you
wanna talk about sort of your relationship to Buffy the Vampire Slayer? [laughter]
Jessie: Yeah. So I actually was sort of a latecomer to Buffy. I didn’t watch—even
though I’m ol—I’m like, it was on air. I remember it being on air. I actually didn’t
watch it until, like, 2009. I graduated from college and was just a depressed
millennial at home, so I was like, let me—and my roommate at the time was like,
let’s watch some Season 3 of Buffy. And I’m like, I’ve heard of this show. And then.
[laughs] And then I watched the entire series in a month and a half. [laughs]
Kristin: Whoa!
Jessie: I, like, got up a couple hours early before work to watch episodes before I
went to work. [Kristin laughs]
Jenny: Nice.
Jessie: I—yeah. It was a very extreme binge watch of the season. And then, that
was pretty much it. Joined some LiveJournal communities—
Kristin: Hell yeah.
Jessie: Because that was still a thing at the time.
Jenny: Yes, yes.
Jessie: And yeah.
Kristin: [sarcastically] And you—based on the titles of all of your podcasts, I
assume that you are also heterosexual. Like we are. [laughs]


Jessie: [laughs] Extremely, extremely heterosexual. [Kristin laughs]
Jenny: Nice. Nice.
Jessie: No. I am a chaotic dirtbag bisexual, so. [laughter]
Kristin: Nice. Wow. Like, humorous and ruthless, chaotic dirtbag bisexual. Just like,
really good word pairings happening, and we’re only a few minutes into talking.
[laughter] Alright, well. Should we talk about this episode? Potential?
Jessie: Yeah.
Kristin: Great. Wow. Here we go. Did you like the Previously Ons, Jenny? How did
you feel about them?
Jenny: I feel like the Previously Ons, to me, were just like, Potentials this,
Potentials that, Potentials another thing. Here’s Eve doing her little TV blip. Here’s a
Turok-Han decapitation. Spike has been rescued and Buffy gives a motivational
speech. Which continues in this—it’s previously on Buffy, there was a motivational
speech preparing you for the motivational speech yet to come.
Kristin: [laughs] Yes.
Jenny: And I was prepared.
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah. It was a—it was a—what I was confused about—because I had
to look up—like, I had an idea of what Joyce had said to Dawn. You know?
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: But it had been a few episodes, so I was really confused about why they
wouldn’t have included that clip in the Previously Ons. Because they reference what
she—like, what Joyce said to Dawn.
Jenny: Mmhmm. Mmhmm.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Like, I feel like, several times. And I had to be like, dear
Google. [laughter] What does Joyce say to Dawn in Season 7 of Buffy the Vampire
Slayer? So, you know. I looked it up for us. Don’t worry, I’ll let everybody know
when we get there, verbatim, what Joyce says. But—


Jenny: Excellent.
Kristin: An odd choice, by the editor.
Jessie: Yeah—
Kristin: In my opinion.
Jessie: If I hadn’t literally listened to your episode, Conversations with Dead
People, I would have been like, what did Joyce say again? [Kristin laughs] Because
it’s been—I haven’t watched any of the episodes in Season 7 in a long time. So I’m
just like—
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Jessie: I vaguely remember what happens, but I’m like, what? So.
Kristin: Yeah. Like, we know it’s not great and it has something to do with Buffy.
But what is it again? I don’t know. So we begin in the cemetery.
Jenny: Vi, clutching her stake [laughter] two-handed directly under her chin.
Clinging for dear life.
Kristin: [laughs] I have the same note. Rona’s doing a decent job holding the
stake. It’s a little far down towards the point, but like, she’s got the general
concept. Vi—
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: But also, you know, I thought Vi is holding it bizarrely. But I think it would
be effective if she just sort of, like, leaned forward really hard into a vampire.
[laughter]
Jenny: Sure. Yes.
Jessie: Which could happen, because they’re at Potential summer camp, learning
how to slay vampires.
Kristin: Oh my god, it literally is Potential summer camp.
Jenny: Aww! I have a question.


Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Where’s Chloe?! We just met Chloe. Jessie, [laughter] since you haven’t
checked in on Season 7 in a while, we just got an influx of new Potentials last
episode. And one of them, Chloe, is just absent—[Jessie laughs]
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: From this episode. [laughter] She’s also the youngest one, so I’m a little
stressed out.
Kristin: [laughs] Maybe she actually had to go to school for a few episodes, you
know? Like—
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: She had some stuff to take care of.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: My question is more macro, to—before we, like, dig into the
specifics—which is, speaking of summer camp, it is—like, you know, the Potentials
are at Potential summer camp. I like that. Buffy is definitely the camp counselor.
And I’m just wondering how you both feel about Buffy’s approach to being the camp
counselor, or the Watch—I mean, she’s really taking the role of a Watcher, with the
Potentials.
Jessie: I think in this episode, I feel like she’s not doing a great job. [laughter] I
mean, obviously, I love Buffy a whole lot. But I think—this bit in the cemetery,
where she’s like, “You gotta trust your gut,” I’m like, okay, that’s good advice. And
then there’s—a couple scenes later, she’s like—they’re in the basement and she’s
like, “You’re all gonna die.” [Kristin laughs] And I’m like—
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Jessie: Buffy. Giles would never have said that to you, number one. You could be
channeling him.
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah.
Jessie: Even Spike. Spike was at least like, “Death is your art. You make it with
your hands every day.” Have him give this speech.


Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah.
Kristin: Yeah. Jenny, how do you feel?
Jenny: Yeah, I mean, I definitely [laughs] have a note about “you’re all gonna die.”
[Kristin laughs] Based on, you know, the outcome of this training arc, it could be
argued that Buffy is succeeding in her mission of helping them develop the physical
and mental skills to slay. But her bedside manner just really—
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Leaves something to be desired. [laughs]
Kristin: Yeah, I think she’s very confident in her Slayer abilities, and I don’t think
she’s that confident in her—which makes sense, ‘cause she’s a Slayer, not a
Watcher.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: This is not a task that, like, she’s had any experience with. But I agree.
And that’s—you know, when I asked it, my thought process was, I don’t think that
she shows up for them in a way—they do figure it out and they are getting better at
stuff. But I think Dawn does—and we’ll talk about it in detail—but like, I think Dawn
shows up for Amanda in the way that I wish Buffy were showing up for the rest of
the Potentials.
Jessie: Exactly.
Kristin: And I don’t fault her for it. I don’t, because it’s not—I mean, you know. It’s
not what she was hired for. As a matter of fact, she’s not been hired for anything.
She’s only been chosen. [laughs]
Jessie: Right.
Kristin: But yeah.
Jenny: I think, like, getting—you know—pretty zoomed out on the episode. I think
it’s like, a shame. I feel like there’s so much talk in this episode about, like, oh,
suddenly Dawn is special, oh, never mind, Dawn’s not special—Dawn—


Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: The value being suddenly placed on and then retracted from Dawn feels
very weird. And also, like, because we get to see her in action with Amanda, talking
her through a really scary, dangerous situation and like, keeping her cool and
staying resourceful and being pretty awesome. The fact that she is not actively
involved in the larger picture with the Potentials is kind of a bummer. Like, she feels
like she has those skills that Buffy’s not got a handle on.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: And it would be cool to see her get to use them.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jessie: [simultaneously] I mean, it’s very clear that Dawn has some, like, real
leadership skills. And like—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jessie: Was really able to connect with Amanda in a way that, like, helps—you
know—Amanda move into, you know, her role as a Potential. And it’s like, Buffy,
you need this energy at your sad summer camp. [laughter] Like, let—like, Dawn is
already doing research. Like, let her come in and connect as another 16-year-old
who does not have super powers.
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: And based on—
Jenny: [laughs] [simultaneously] Dawn’s rolling in like, hello, my fellow kids,
actually. [laughter]
Kristin: But like, from everything that we are led to believe about these Potentials,
they have less training than Dawn by a landslide, you know?
Jenny: Mmhmm.


Kristin: So it doesn’t make any sense on so many levels. And Jenny, to your point,
I think, I really thought that this episode was gonna turn that “special” on its head.
Like, I—just based on the way they were really driving it home in the beginning,
that like, the Potentials were special. They were special, but Dawn wasn’t special.
That by the end, the lesson would be that, like, actually? And we get a really nice,
you know, moment between Xander and Dawn, and we’ll talk about the scenes
individually. But they didn’t, they really just dug their heels in on that. Like, these
guys are special and these guys are different. They’re not that, they’re something
else. And—
Jessie: Which I actually kind of appreciate for Dawn, which we’ll get into once we
get to, like, the end of the episode.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Jessie: But I actually think that that is still really powerful and important in its own
right. Because—
Kristin: Yeah.
Jessie: Partly just kind of overall, how many stories we have in media about, like,
chosen ones. And I think that, like, exploring people who aren’t chosen is, like—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jessie: Still really interesting. You can really do some interesting things with it. And
I think this episode does that in a way that—I don’t remember what happened in
this season, in like, detail. So I’m like, I’m hope we get to [inaudible] because it’s
like—[laughs]
Kristin: Yeah. You and me both, Jessie. Who knows what happens for the rest of
the season? [laughter]
Jessie: It’s like, oh, Dawn. Like, you’re so good at this, Dawn. Like, I don’t know.
Kristin: She really is. Alright, so back in the cemetery. We’re training at Slayer
summer camp. And they’re using Spike—which is great. I mean, what a great
resource. You know, they have a friendly vamp on their hands. [laughs] So they’re
using Spike as a way to teach these Potentials how to deal with vampires. Rona
making excellent points throughout the entire episode, talking about how this fight
is unfair. Later, talking about her preference of the classic stake as a weapon. And
she has a line right at the top of the episode, where—you know, Buffy’s like, “These


two are dead. Anyone know why?” And Rona’s like, “Yeah, because the black chick
always gets it first.” Buffy, super dismissive of this, and also, the series—I mean,
we’ve said it, like, five fucking million times. But like, you have not earned a joke
like this. At least, that’s my opinion, for where this series is, is that, like, having a
black character say a line like this is not inherently wrong. That can be, like, a
funny turn on its head joke, but not in a series that has treated its black and POC
characters pretty poorly since the jump.
Jessie: Yeah. I will say, though, that I think all of—like, this comment especially, I
love for Rona. Because it’s like, Rona is the one person who has seen a horror
movie. [laughter] Like, she’s genre-savvy enough to know what the—like, what is
going on. And so, I feel like, out of all the Potentials in this episode, she’s the one
who’s sort of like, clearly seeing what is going on. And is like, mm, yeah, I—[Kristin
laughs] mm, okay, y’all. Like. [laughter] I’ve seen the movies, I know. I know
what’s happening here. [laughs]
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah. We were just talking about this in the last episode, where Rona
is introduced, and is immediately sort of this audience proxy for people who are just
tuning in [laughter] in Season 7, for some reason. She’s like, asking all of the
questions that you’d wanna know if you were becoming familiar with the universe
for the first time. And she has, like, the most sort of inherent—like, her spider
sense is always tingling, and she’s always like, why is that happening? Why is that
guy tied to a chair? [Kristin laughs] Et cetera.
Jessie: Yeah. She’s just, I feel like, the less sort of—a lot of the other Potentials
seem to be, like—they’re still a little bit in shock of what’s happening. It’s like, Rona
has already accepted this reality and is like, okay.
Jenny: Mmhmm. [laughs]
Jessie: How do I not die? [laughter]
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jessie: Because I don’t wanna be like y’all.
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah.
Jessie: I’m not trying to be the, like, trope of the black guy dies first. I’m not
trying—


Kristin: Yeah. [laughs]
Jessie: That’s not about to be my life. And I’m like, that’s right.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: Yeah, Rona and Kennedy. Like, really—they are the two most confident
Potentials. Vi, who’s partnered with Rona in this fight scene, is maybe the most
scared. Right?
Jessie: It’s also very fun to see a very baby Felicia Day. [laughs] I’m like, I forgot
you’re, like, so young and baby faced in this episode.
Kristin: Oh my god, with her little hat. Just like—[laughter]
Jessie: [laughing] With her, like, Willow Season 2 hat.
Kristin: Yes! [laughs]
Jessie: Yes.
Jenny: Yeah. They definitely were like, what if we dress her like Willow and then
she—sort of, her personality is kind of, like, Andrew 2.0, where she’s like, calling
Spike “sir” and saying, like, “I have learned a valuable lesson of some sort. For
sure.”
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah. So this is where Buffy gets her first, like—I put little blocks
around each one of Buffy’s lessons. And this is the first one that basically, you gotta
trust your instincts, right? Like, your instinct was to run, which they admit. You
should have run, because then you can fight on your terms and not on the vamp’s
terms. A good point, a good, solid point.
Jenny: Oh yeah.
Kristin: And then, like, to understand his instinct, but to trust yours. Right? That
like, it’s not just about trusting your instinct. It’s also like, you gotta know
how—you have to know what they’re doing and why they’re doing it, so that you
can be a better fighter. And she, you know, shows this—she shows her work by
ducking as Spike lunges for her. He slams into a headstone, nearly gets knocked
out. And she’s like, and that’s the lesson. You know? That’s the first lesson.


Jenny: And then after you defeat your vampire foe, it’s important to straddle them
and touch their stomach? A little bit?
Kristin: [laughs] The tender shot of Spike’s belly in this scene. It’s—you just don’t
see it coming, you know? It’s usually all pecs and nothing more with Spike. We get
this very—
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Tender moment between the two of them. Which I thought maybe I would
like the most, but someone in this scene…[laughter] likes it even more!
Jessie: It’s like, very sexy, tender. And then, like, watching Rona be like, “oh,
yeah.” And I’m like, you know what? You’re right. This is a bisexual dream, Rona. I
totally feel you, [laughter] where you’re coming from. And I’m like, did I not realize
you’re bisexual, my first watch of this scene—like, I’m like, how did I miss that?
[laughter] It’s like, between this and the overalls. I’m like, damn! [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Oh my god, and the tracksuit too!
Jessie: [laughing] And the tracksuit!
Kristin: [simultaneously] In that scene, she’s looking so good in the tracksuit.
Jessie: Yeah.
Kristin: I’ve seen this episode a few times, and like, I definitely clocked her saying,
like, “that’s hot.” But like, I don’t think I ever really saw her say, “that’s hot” and
then lick her—! She licks her lips as she’s looking at Spike and Buffy. It’s pretty
delightful.
Jessie: Yeah, it’s not a sarcastic “that’s hot.” It’s like, oh, actually. I’m glad I get to
watch these two hot people, like, wrestle each other in real time. And I’m like, I
mean, same. So. [laughs]
Kristin: Uh-huh. Yeah. Right? [laughter] And then we go to the credits.
Jessie: Yeah. I mean, the fact that Molly is like, “So can we use our feminine wiles
to distract vampires?” [laughs] is like, such a relevant question. [Kristin laughs]


Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Jessie: She’s like, writing this down. [laughter]
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: Yeah, Molly’s gotten really serious. She’s like, taking notes. Her hair’s
pulled back. She’s realized the stakes are high, no pun intended. [laughter]
Jessie: Pun fully intended, maybe. [laughter]
Kristin: Yeah. We come back on fun—summer camp is fun for, like, one second.
Slayer camp. The girls are, like, all in the basement and they’re laughing, they’re
having a good time. And then Buffy’s like, “Hey, by the way? Your camp counselor is
here to tell you that you’re all gonna fucking die.” [laughs]
Jenny: Buffy, no.
Kristin: Like, what does she—this reminds me of, like—remember when Dawn just
wanted to have a good time, learning what a triangle was? And Buffy was like,
“Everybody, stop having fun and do your homework!” [laughter] It’s like, somebody
needs to tell Buffy, like—Faith needs to get back here. Because, you know—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Somebody needs to remind Buffy or teach Buffy that you can have fun and
learn how to be a Slayer, all at the same time.
Jenny: Modern Potentials can have it all. [Kristin laughs] You don’t need to come
down into the basement while they’re chatting about chin-ups and one-arm
pushups and then throw an ax! To get their attention. Buffy!
Jessie: Especially since, Buffy, you had so much fun hanging out with Giles, doing
shit. Like…
Jenny: Mmhmm!
Jessie: Unless the Council showed up, but you know.
Jenny: Yeah. [laughs]


Jessie: Fuck them. So I’m just like, where’s this—and I know you’re stressed out
about this. But, like, you have such a good teacher to model yourself after. [laughs]
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Well, and—yeah, I think you actually kind of hit it. Which is that the same
thing was happening with Dawn at that time in the series, that she was terrified
that she couldn’t do a good job. And so, it does seem like when Buffy is scared that
she can’t do the thing she needs to do, she cannot do anything but, like, be—you
know—fairly dominating and eliminating of fun.
Jessie: Yeah, very—it’s very intense.
Kristin: Yeah. So some exposition, not as much as we’ve gotten in previous
episodes, thankfully. [laughing] But we learn that the First is so sad about
Turok-Han. [laughter] The First is, like, crying as Eve, crying—just crying as every
embodiment that the First has taken, because apparently, this was a big deal.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: The Turok-Han was supposed to last a lot longer than he did.
Jessie: It feels like if you’re—I don’t know. You spend a lot of time on some kind of,
like, creative project. And then you’re like, oh, I have to start from scratch and I
put 80 hours into this. [laughter] And that’s sort of like the vibe that the First has,
where it’s like, I gotta unravel this whole sweater! And start all over again!
[laughter] Throw it all away.
Kristin: Yes. Yes.
Jenny: It feels important here, considering everything that’s going to happen in the
episode, that Buffy doesn’t actually remember the name of the Turok-Han. [Jessie
laughs] But Dawn, who is just watching, who is just observing the training session,
is like, pushing the glasses up on the bridge of her nose. And she’s like, “I think you
mean Turok-Han?”
Kristin: Um, also, she calls him Chaka Khan, which cannot go unspoken. [laughter]
Jenny: Sure. Sure, yes, sorry. [laughs]


Kristin: And like, listen, if you’ve heard Showtime, you know that we’ve
asked—we’ve put in requests for you to send Turok-Han making his grand entrance
to the Summers’ home [Jessie laughs] to various songs. So like, just saying, I hope
one of you, in advance of this, knew to submit it to a Chaka Khan song. Thank you
very much. [laughs]
Jessie: Or maybe used the, like, TikTok meme where it’s like, the—Chaka Khan
singing the Reading Rainbow theme and, like, people’s heads are floating in space
with the…
Kristin: Oh.
Jessie: What is it, the…like…
Kristin: You’re proving your true millennial status now.
Jessie: [laughs] I watch a lot of—
Jenny: We’re like, what is TikTok?
Kristin: A TikTok meme that’s a lot of words altogether! [laughs]
Jessie: Oh my god, I watch a lot of TikTok. I still don’t know how to use—I still
don’t know how to make a TikTok. I need probably my thirteen-year-old nephew to
show me, so. [laughter] I feel like I’m just squeaking by the, like—with my
millennial cred. [laughter]
Kristin: Yeah, yeah. You define the line between millennial and elder millennial.
[Jessie laughs] It’s a fine line, but it’s there, you know?
Jessie: Yeah.
Kristin: Yeah. So, yeah. And Dawn—I have a lot of hearts for Dawn in my notes,
this whole episode. And this is the first Dawn heart, that she’s—she knows what
she’s talking about. Throughout the whole episode, she’s constantly correcting
people and being like, but don’t you remember this fact? And this other fact?
Jessie: Yeah.
Kristin: She’s paying attention.


Jenny: And—ugh! Buffy—[laughs derisively] in her little speech, as it goes on, is
like, “Oh, some of you are gonna die in this battle. Decide now that it’s not gonna
be you.” And then she goes on to say, “You guys are special. You know why you
exist. And that’s lucky, ‘cause a lot of people don’t know why they exist. You are
chosen.” And Dawn, on the stairs, so bummed, is told to hurry up and eat her
breakfast so she’s not late for school!
Kristin: Very insensitive.
Jenny: Why doesn’t anybody care about Dawn’s feelings?!
Kristin: I know. Dawn and Faith really do need to hang out. [Jenny gasps] You
know?
Jenny: [chanting] Spinoff show! Spinoff show! [laughter]
Jessie: Oh. I just sometimes like to imagine the, like, how much maybe Faith and
Dawn hung out in the reimagining of Season 3 where Dawn’s there. ‘Cause I feel
like it’s kind of a lot.
Kristin: [longingly] Ugh.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: [gasps] Yes! Oh my god, yes. What did the monks do for us?
Jessie: Like, Dawn has a lot of memories of hanging out with Faith and vice versa.
Kristin: [laughing] Yes.
Jessie: And that’s, like—I feel very strongly about that.
Kristin: Wow, I would like that.
Jenny: Faith definitely had a special nickname for Dawn.
Kristin: Yes. You’ve talked about this. You’ve asked—or actually, a listener emailed
us just recently—’cause you’ve asked this question before.
Jenny: So I’m consistent. Cool.


Kristin: You are consistent. Nothing if not consistent. And one of our listeners
suggested “splinter” or something like that, because—
Jenny: Aw!
Kristin: Dawn is like a little—a little Buffy, and like—
Jessie: Oh my god!
Kristin: Buffy is the Slayer with her stake, and so she’s like a little splinter of
a…stake.
Jenny: That’s very cute!
Jessie: Oh my god, that’s so cute.
Kristin: That’s cute, right? Also, I just—not to get whatever. I know we have, like,
a lot of scenes to cover. But this struck a little bit oddly and maybe this folds into
some of the chosen one conversation you were having earlier, Jessie. But I just
think it’s bizarre that Buffy is like, “You’re so lucky because you know what you’re
doing and you know your purpose.” That seems like a mixed—like, it seems like if
you chose what you wanted to do and you are, like, happy about it, then that’s
great. Like, look at you, you know what you wanna do in this world. It doesn’t seem
to fit in this scenario where, like, none of them chose it. So I just thought it was
maybe not accurate.
Jessie: Yeah, like, I feel like any number of these young people—you know—just
going to high school, being like, oh, man, I’m gonna go to college or I’m gonna go
travel or whatever. And now it’s like, I’m in some rando’s basement, thinking about
how to not die, because of supernatural creatures that I thought weren’t real, like,
six months ago.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Ugh.
Kristin: And if anyone fucking knows that life, it’s Buffy. She, like, had to kill her
first boyfriend and, like, couldn’t go to fucking—you know what I mean?
Jessie: Right.


Kristin: Like, she couldn’t go away to college. She—so many of the things she
wanted to do, she didn’t get to do. So I’m like, all here for saving the world, but I
think if—I think, back to the camp counselor situation. It would be nice if Buffy, I
think, was a bit more honest and transparent with them. Because I think that’s
what they need more than, like, “you love this! This is great for you! You’re gonna
win!” [laughter]
Jessie: Especially since Buffy, out of all people, knows that having a group of
people to support you is what’s gonna help you live longer. [laughs] Like…
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Yes! Yes.
Jenny: Selective Buffy Summers memory. It’s not the first time we’ve seen it. And
I’m sure it won’t be the last.
Kristin: So we head off to work. Oh, yes, Jenny.
Jenny: Listen!
Kristin: I’m so sorry.
Jenny: It’s very important. I’m going where you’re going, Kristin. We’re going to
the Buffy Summers counseling cubicle. [laughter] But listen. It’s very, very
important that we hold up the magnifying glass to this moment, where Buffy’s on
the phone, telling Xander, who must be upset, that if he’s gonna shower at her
house, he really needs to lock the door. And then she says…[Kristin laughs] and
then, Kristin and Jessie, she says, “Of course they’re curious.” What?! What?!
What?! Are we—I don’t know what to take away from this, other than that these
fifteen-year-old girls were like, there’s a naked man in the shower. We should open
the door?
Kristin: Yeah…
Jenny: And be like, boo?
Kristin: Yeah…
Jenny: Is that—did you get anything else from this? I’m confused.
Kristin: No, that’s exactly what I got from it.


Jessie: Yeah.
Kristin: But I, like, reasoned it away so that I could accept it by thinking to myself,
Xander probably is like, “Well, they just all wanna, like, get a look at me.” ‘Cause
you could just fucking hear him saying that shit.
Jenny: No.
Kristin: And Buffy just being like, [groans]—like, it’s like her dismissing the Xander
of it all, just to make it go away.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: That’s what I did in my brain. [laughs]
Jenny: Okay, okay.
Kristin: Giles is not here. Giles is in Shanghai, picking up another Slayer named
Chao-Ahn.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Can’t wait to meet that Slayer. I’m sure that it will be done so well and
responsibly. [Jessie laughs]
Jenny: Yeah. What could go wrong? [laughter]
Jessie: [simultaneously] Whatever could you mean? I mean…
Kristin: The show is clearly already showing us that it does a great job, so can’t
wait for that. And then we get Amanda. Remember Amanda? Here she comes.
Jenny: I do remember Amanda. She’s like, “Is it weird that there’s a boy who picks
on me? And like, we’re mean to each other and we like each other?” And Buffy is
like, boy oh boy. [Jessie laughs] Have you come to the right place. [laughter]
Jessie: Yeah. I actually—I love this entire exchange. ‘Cause it’s just like, them both
confirming that they love enemies to lovers tropes. And I’m like, I mean, also
same. [laughter] But it’s like, Buffy, are you counseling Amanda or is Amanda
counseling you? Because it’s really—the line is real blurry here, for a minute.
[laughs]


Kristin: Yep. Amanda, also confused about which direction this is going. [laughter]
Alright. Can we play a little sound clip here to get us into the next scene? ‘Cause I
laughed for a while.
[Clip from episode plays]
[many people loudly arguing]
Andrew: Why do we always have to yell?!
Jenny: What happened to this house? This is just, teen girls?
Jessie: I was like—
Jenny: Chairs are overturned.
Jessie: I was literally trying to figure that out. I’m like, this—the pictures are askew
and there’s like, stuff—
Kristin: Yeah. [laughter]
Jessie: And I’m like, what—what was happening here? [laughs]
Jenny: Is this because they saw Xander naked? [laughter] And then…[laughing]
they all flew into a psychotic rage? [laughter]
Kristin: It was like a mini version of the love spell episode—
Jessie: Oh my god.
Kristin: Where they were all just fighting for a look at Xander, knocking things off
the walls. Oh, god. The scene doesn’t last super long. Buffy walks—Buffy walks in
and like us, is like, [laughter] “The fuck hap—I was gone for a minute! [laughter]
What the hell happened here?” And then Willow is like, hey, um, this is a very funny
scene, but we actually have to move to a very serious scene. We have news, we
gots news, so. [laughter] They move to the dining room and the news is—makes
sense, with the title of the episode, which is that there is another Potential. And this
Potential is in Sunnydale. [Jenny gasps] But the seer couldn’t see this Potential,
they just know that she’s in Sunnydale. Xander makes a crack about the seer, and
I’m like, you know, maybe the seer couldn’t see this Potential because there’s


already, like—you know? They’re like a cluster of Potentials. It’s probably harder to
distinguish details when they’re all together like this.
Jessie: Or some, like, weird Hellmouth interference.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jessie: Just general—
Jenny: [laughs] That’s true, there could be some static.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Hellmouth just blur—it’s like, the sensor. It just blurs
over. [laughter]
Jenny: Terrible seer reception on the Hellmouth. [laughter] The seer also couldn’t
identify—like, couldn’t say who the Potential was who was at the hotel, in the
previous episode, which was Eve who ultimately had already been killed by
Bringers—
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: And was—the First was posing as her. I mean. Sunnydale, having just a ton
of interference, you know—
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Makes a lot of sense. But also, it’s not a bad question, Xander. The—if your
title is seer, one would hope.
Kristin: [laughs] Fair, fair. Listen, I am pro Xander in most of this episode, so—but
I just want him to get off the seer’s back, you know? Leave her alone!
Jenny: [laughs] They’re doing the best they can!
Kristin: They’re doing the fucking best they can, from like, England. You know
what I mean? [Jessie laughs] That’s far. That’s far away.
Jenny: That is pretty far. And this is like—this is 2003. Do you remember
being—were you ever on the phone with somebody—[Jessie laughs]
Kristin: Yeah.


Jenny: In England in 2003?
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: The reception was trash!
Kristin: The Potential is like, “Can you hear me now? Can you hear me now?”
[laughter]
Jenny: Oh, no. Jessie, did you ever see a long-running Verizon campaign in which a
man—
Jessie: Yes.
Jenny: Okay. Cool. Just checking. [laughs]
Jessie: Sure have. But it’s like, you know—the Hellmouth is just like a giant
deadzone. You have to, like, hold a Potential up and like, move outside of the city,
[Kristin laughs] like, “Can you sense her?”
Kristin: You have to pull the antenna up on the Potential. [Jessie laughs]
Jenny: Yeah, yeah. Lift your left arm. Raise your right foot. [laughter]
Kristin: Oh, god. So. This scene really exists to just get us to—Buffy was gonna
take the Potentials on an outing. Andrew really wants to go.
Jenny: Oh, he wants to go so bad!
Kristin: [simultaneously] He just really wants to help. Give him his holy water and
let him go, you know? [laughter]
Jenny: Mmm. Mmhmm.
Kristin: And that Willow is gonna stay home to do a locator spell, to figure out—I
mean. All Willow has done this season is throw magic dust on maps. [Jessie laughs]
It’s like her new…[laughter]
Jenny: It’s the only safe magic she can do, Kristin. [laughs]
Kristin: She’s like, telling them what it’s gonna be and I’m like, we all know, at this
point. [Jessie laughs]


Jenny: Yeah, we’ve seen.
Kristin: There’s a map and a light and the light will move. We get it. [laughs]
Anyway.
Jenny: Kristin, I saw on Twitter earlier that you were looking up Snausages?
[laughter] Which is relevant to this scene. [laughs]
Kristin: This next scene, yeah. I wanted to know if Snausages still existed. They
do, don’t fucking panic. You can still get Snausages.
Jessie: I was like, wow, what a—there’s so many throwback references in this
episode. And I’m like, wow, I haven’t thought about—I haven’t even seen a package
of Snausages. But like…I feel like everyone is just like…we don’t feed our dogs
artificial processed crap anymore.
Kristin: [laughs] I know.
Jenny: Right. Right.
Kristin: There was—the commercial that I watched was from 1984, which is, like—
Jenny: Whoa.
Kristin: Far earlier than this. But it is what I remembered. They probably—I mean,
Snausages probably, like, made one commercial and just played—you know, maybe
three. But it’s just the dog saying “Snausages” over and over again. And the
guy—the announcer guy is like, “Treat for your dog! What should we call it? This
name, that name?” and the dog is like, “Snausages. Snausages. Snausages.” And I
remembered that!
Jenny: The dog’s naming the product? [laughter]
Kristin: Yeah. [laughter] The dog named it, yeah.
Jenny: I have a terrible feeling I’ve said this already on this podcast, possibly
multiple times. But I just wanna confess here, before both of you, that I, as a child,
was really into sampling my dog’s treats.
Kristin: Mmhmm.


Jenny: And I have tasted a Snausage.
Kristin: Oh!
Jenny: Because they look like little cocktail wieners.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: They look like pigs in a blanket.
Kristin: Mmhmm. But no blanket.
Jenny: Yes, blanket.
Kristin: [gasps] You’re right!
Jenny: [simultaneously] Wait, have I just—yeah.
Kristin: [simultaneously] The Snausage commercial I saw did not have the
Snausages in blankets.
Jenny: [simultaneously] It was the pre-blanket Snausages. Snausages 1.0.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Pre-blanket Snausage, 1984. [laughter] Yeah, find
out—listeners, can you find out when the Snausage got its blanket? [laughter]
Jenny: We need to know. And if the recipe is still the same, I just wanna save
everyone potential heartache. Snausages are much drier and much less like a pig in
a blanket than you would hope, from looking at it. However, now—to your point,
Jessie—my dog—you know—oh, our limited ingredient, single protein, organic,
artisanal, bespoke dog treats. I smell them and I’m like, this smells—this just
smells like a friggin’ cookie that I baked.
Kristin: Human food, mmhmm.
Jenny: It is straight up human—which is probably good. Food is probably better
than…not food.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Dog food? Yeah. [laughs]


Jessie: I mean, I feel like…I feel like I’ve met plenty of dogs who would just love to
eat some, like, garbage. And I mean, I love eating, like, Combos. I’m like, what is
really the difference?
Jenny: [laughing] Oh hell yeah!
Kristin: [simultaneously] Right.
Jessie: Or like, McDonalds. So I’m like, ehh, whatever.
Kristin: Wow. I think you actually nailed it. Combos are the Snausages of human
food. [laughs]
Jessie: Okay, but don’t Combos look kind of like Snausages too?
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Yeah!
Jessie: [simultaneously] In my brain, I’m like, it’s a little red in the middle. And I’m
like, okay.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Yes, 100%.
Kristin: Mmhmm. Oh my god, I fucking loved a Combo. Was a Combo—was a
pretzel Combo a special—like, that was special that it was a pretzel? Or was always
a pretzel around…?
Jessie: It was—I mean, regular Combos have, like, a cracker—like, so the pizza
ones.
Kristin: A cracker. Okay.
Jenny: Yes.
Jessie: [simultaneously] And then there was the—the pretzel ones had, like, a
cheese filling.
Kristin: Yeah, they did.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.


Jessie: They still make Combos, by the way. They have real dairy in them, which I
cannot eat. But they still smell and look delicious. [laughs]
Jenny: Wow. Wow, my stomach—
Kristin: This episode—
Jenny: Is rumbling! [laughter] I’m just gonna look up a picture of Combos really
quick. [laughter]
Kristin: [simultaneously] This episode not brought to you by Snausages or
Combos. [laughter]
Jenny: Oh, god, look at them.
Kristin: Okay, stop looking at your Combos—
Jenny: Ahhhh!
Kristin: Alright, I have more questions for you, Jenny. We’ll have to do a special
Patreon episode where you rank dog food, ‘cause I’m just so curious, but we don’t
have the time for that here. [laughter]
Jenny: Okay. [laughs]
Kristin: Okay, so the Slayers—by the way, the reason we talked about Snausages
for, like, four fucking years just now [laughter] is because Buffy walks into the
kitchen with Andrew and says, “He’s like a small dog begging for Snausages.” In
case you needed the connective tissue.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: The girls—the Potentials are in here, picking up weapons, trying to figure
out what they’re gonna use. This is where Rona is like, “I’m gonna go with the
stake, a classic.” And I’m like, I fucking love you, Rona. Kennedy—
Jenny: Oh, wait. Kristin, I’m sorry. Rona also says, “I like the feel of wood in my
hand.” [laughter]
Kristin: Ah, yeah. That’s why I just said “Kennedy” like that, is because—
Jessie: [laughing] ‘Cause Kennedy’s response—


Kristin: A couple episodes ago, I was like, maybe they cut that part out because it
was a stupid lesbian joke. And Jenny was like, “Um, this show definitely loves a
stupid lesbian joke.” Kennedy walks in and says, “Lost me there.” Okay. Okay! 2003
television.
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: With queer themes.
Jenny: Okay, it was a different time.
Kristin: A very different time. Okay, Kennedy.
Jessie: [laughs] Yeah, I feel like I was watching—sorry, this is gonna be mildly off
topic. Me and my wife are watching the early 2000s classic, Dark Angel, with
Jessica Alba. Witches—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Wow!
Jessie: Canonically queer, black character, witches, and like, a surprisingly diverse
cast. But like, we’re watching an episode and then there was, like, a shockingly
transphobic B plotline, where I’m just like, wow. From all this cool—from like, not
only, like, the lesbian character, which unfortunately [inaudible]. But like, all of the
other cool—
Kristin: Right.
Jessie: I’m like, what is happening? And I’m like, ughh, it’s 2000—it’s like, 2000 or
whatever, 2001, that’s why. And I’m like, [groans].
Jenny: Yeah…
Kristin: In the 2000s, you couldn’t have a television show with a lesbian character
without there being some kind of penis-related joke.
Jessie: Yeah.
Kristin: Like, it was just like, you—it wasn’t allowed. I think it was against—what is
it, standards and practices? You know?


Jenny: [laughing] Yeah, seriously.
Kristin: [simultaneously] They were like, if you include a lesbian character, you
must make a transphobic joke. Just one for one. Anyway! Dawn. Dawn. That’s
really why this scene is here, ‘cause Dawn’s like, “I kill things! I’ve killed things too!
You know?” Like, just—
Jenny: Dawn!
Kristin: Dawn! Buddy!
Jenny: We know you have! We support you.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Somebody take care of Dawn. Andrew tries, a little bit.
[laughs] To take care of—to bond with Dawn. But yeah, Andrew wants to go. He
makes his—he throws his little hissy fit of, “Spike killed people and he gets to go!”
[laughter] Buffy making a very good point, that Spike didn’t have free will and
Andrew—
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: You did. So Andrew and Dawn are left behind.
Jessie: I have to say that Andrew being like, “I hate my free will,” is like, hashtag
mood. [laughter] Where I’m like, you know, I really can…so much about Andrew, I
think, is a mood in this episode, but especially that one. [laughter]
Jenny: Oh yeah.
Kristin: Also, I was about to move us into the next scene. But I did wanna just give
a little nod to Buffy’s description of Andrew. “He’s not evil. But when he gets close
to it, he picks up its flavor. Kind of like mushrooms.” [laughs]
Jenny: Or tofu.
Kristin: Tofu, yeah.
Jenny: Andrew is totally tofu—would have been tofu if it wasn’t 2003.
Jessie: Yeah.


Kristin: Yeah. People didn’t really understand tofu in 2003. [laughs]
Jessie: Yeah, you’d have to be, like, a weird crunchy vegetarian—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jessie: To be eating tofu in 2003. So.
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah. Jenny—Jenny’s raising her hand. She was.
Jenny: I was doing it. But—
Kristin: [simultaneously] She was that crunchy—
Jessie: [simultaneously] Oh yeah, I mean, I was also eating tofu in 2003, so.
[laughter]
Kristin: Okay, well. Dining room, magic time.
Jenny: We’re on Zoom and this is a podcast. [laughter] A notably non-visual
medium, but I just held up my hands as though I too were holding a large shed
snakeskin, and then I…
Jessie: [laughs] Moved it around?
Jenny: Sort of undulated it left and right, the way that snakes move. For the
benefit only of Kristin and Jessie. Thank you.
Kristin: Oh, god. Let’s just hear him. Let’s just hear—
Jenny: Yes, please.
Kristin: Okay, so they’re at a table, right? And Willow’s, like, got some
tumbleweeds and eggs and chrysalises. Which, before we get to Andrew’s sound
clip, she does call “butterfly transformer pods” which I am, like, fucking fully here
for. [Jessie laughs]
Jenny: It is good.
Kristin: And then Andrew picks up the snakeskin and says—
[Clip from audio plays]


Andrew: At your sssss-service, Ms. Rosenberg, sssss-sir.
Jessie: What a nerd. [laughs]
Jenny: Then he’s like, “Imagine if every once in a while, people wriggled out of
their skins and left them on the sidewalk.” An image I will carry with me to my
grave.
Kristin: Mmhmm. Yeah.
Jessie: I actually also found it funny, considering he’s saying it to Willow, who did
literally skin someone.
Kristin: Yes. [Jenny screeches]
Jessie: [laughing] And leave their skin lying around—I’m like, is that an intentional
mention—? Like, I wasn’t sure if that was an intentional reference or not, but I was
kinda like, Andrew, do you not know?
Kristin: I think that’s why Willow was, like, kind of quieter, you know what I mean?
[laughter] Like, I think she was thinking that. I think she was thinking about that.
That has happened one time in Sunnydale.
Jessie: Yeah.
Jenny: Eugh.
Kristin: Where did Warren’s skin go? I’m sorry. [Jessie laughs] I will—I retract that
from the statement, please. [laughter]
Jenny: Yes.
Jessie: Yeah, all the answers to that are not great. [laughs]
Kristin: No. None of them. There is not one good answer.
Jessie: [laughing] Not a single one of those answers is good. [laughter]
Kristin: Alright, so. They’re talking about who this Potential Slayer might be. Dawn
has some guesses. A glam-azon in her gym class. She hopes it’s not Margo, who


fainted dissecting a fetal pig. Gross, Sunnydale High School. Fucking—no thank
you.
Jessie: Okay, I—sorry, I have to say. I think Margo the freak is probably the teen
vegetarian. The teen vegan at Sunnydale High—
Kristin: Mmm.
Jessie: Which is probably why she fainted.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Jessie: Which I’m like, Dawn, rude. [laughter]
Kristin: Yeah. Margo’s eating tofu, you know? Margo knows what the fuck tofu is.
[laughs]
Jessie: [simultaneously] Margo definitely knows about—she definitely knows about
tofu.
Jenny: Oh yeah.
Kristin: So yeah, there’s gonna be a light, it’s gonna be enchanted, they’re gonna
find the Slayer. We move—it’s a very funny scene change. Like, you could tell that
there was probably some discrepancies on who was available on what day. Because
the trio in the living room is Willow and Andrew and Dawn. But then when they
move to the dining room to do the spell, Andrew is gone, but Xander and Anya are
there. So it’s like a little switch for the magic. [Jenny laughs] So the spell happens.
It stinks. If you throw an egg in the fireplace, does it stink, for real? It didn’t check
for me.
Jenny: I’ve never thrown an egg in a fireplace.
Jessie: Probably?
Jenny: Have you, Jessie?
Jessie: I have not, but I actually kind of like the detail that the spell is smelly,
‘cause I feel like a lot of the spells are probably smelly.
Kristin: If you have thrown an egg into a fireplace, please call us at 1-800…egg
fire. [Jessie laughs]


Jenny: Fire egg.
Kristin: Fire egg. So yeah, the spell happens. They think it hasn’t worked. Anya,
cuttingly to Willow, “So you messed up a spell again?” These two. They
have—they’ve left the honeymoon phase.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Anya!
Kristin: [laughs] They have. And Dawn goes to the door to open it up to, like, air
out the place. And this glowing, smelly blob orb hits her right in the chest. And
they’re like, ohhh, shit! Dawn is the Potential?!
Jenny: Cue everyone losing their minds. Xander’s like, “Wow! You could be the
next Slayer!” Anya’s like, “Wow, it seems like only yesterday you were a [laughter]
klutzy, kleptomaniac teen.” Xander’s like, “This is huge! We have to think about
this!” Weirdly, Willow says, “Oh yeah, remember that thing about they share the
same blood or whatever?” [laughs] Which feels like a very specific thing that was,
like, really drilled into us, to just be like, whatever—
Kristin: Whatever. Yeah. [laughs]
Jenny: [simultaneously] I, like, half-remember this.
Kristin: Also, do no Slayers—it’s not a blood—it’s in your blood. ‘Cause that would
mean that no Slayer ever has a sibling, right? Or they’re—like, that doesn’t—
Jenny: Mm. Well, it’s not just that they’re siblings, but that Dawn—if I’m
remembering correctly—is literally made of Buffy.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Oh, has Buffy’s actual—right, right, right. Made from the
rib of Buffy. [laughter]
Jenny: Yeah.
Jessie: Essentially, yes.
Kristin: Yeah. [laughs] Yeah. Willow’s—Willow—I feel like Xander—like, Anya is
Anya, 100%, through and through in this scene. Xander has, I think, more of a hold
on the sort of gravity of this than Willow, which doesn’t track, for—like, Willow
would definitely have—be able to hold that this is not, like, a very exciting


revelation. And—but she’s like, given that task in this scene, the way that it’s
written, to be like—
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: “This is amazing and you’re gonna feel—it feels so cool when there’s a
power bigger than you.” I’m like, does it, Willow? Do you remember the end of
Season 6? [laughter]
Jenny: Yeah, Willow, didn’t you just spend a lot of time in England, uh, getting that
power out of your system?
Kristin: Yeah. [laughs]
Jenny: The thing that really—I just, like…everyone’s freaking out. And nobody’s
thinking about Dawn. Nobody’s like, measuring their reactions, you know?
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And then we get this, like—
Kristin: Ugh.
Jenny: Where they wanna call Buffy and tell her. And Xander’s like, oh, she didn’t
take a phone. And Dawn’s like, oh yeah, ‘cause all the important people are with
her. And Xander says, “You’re important now.”
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: What?
Kristin: Yeah, but we kinda get a little—
Jenny: I’m not the podcast Dawn stan. And I’m like, justice for Dawn! What are we
doing?
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Everyone’s really sucking for Dawn.
Jessie: Which is like—which is wild to me, ‘cause like, it’s not like we’re in Season 5
where she’s, like, thirteen. It’s like—


Kristin: Yeah.
Jessie: Dawn is a very capable Scooby at this point in her own right, number one.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Jessie: And then number two, honestly, the audacity of Willow, the way that she’s
freaking out. When it’s like, Willow, what were you doing at sixteen? Oh yeah, you
were running around with Buffy, like, trying to kill vampires, like, screwing around
with magic and being like, oh, look at this cool thing I can do.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jessie: Like, I can fucking re-soul Angel. It’s—what? [laughter] It’s just—I’m just
like, did y’all forget where you were? Five years ago? [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jessie: It was not that long ago.
Kristin: It truly was not that long ago and they don’t seem to have—Xander—I give
Xander’s “you’re important now”—once I got to the end of the episode, I was like,
oh, okay. I see where—like, he was catching feelings in this moment too, I think.
Right? Like, Xander also carries the—no matter how much he’s journeyed and no
matter how much he understands, like, he carries very much the, like, “I’m not the
important one in this equation.” So like, I give him a little bit of room to have said
that. But yeah, agree. Hardcore agree on all of these things. Just like—it just feels
like they—not Anya! This is exactly how you expect Anya to show up in this
moment. But Xander and Willow, not so much.
Jessie: Actually, I do love Anya’s weird metaphors. I’m like, just—I’m a huge Anya
fan, so I’m just like, never—like, you’re just—you’re so consistent, where you’re
just like…[laughter] and I’m just like, I love it.
Kristin: Well, she tells Dawn that, like, it’s like she’s been swallowed by a large
thing that swallowed her.
Jessie: Yes.


Jenny: Yeah. “You’re part of something larger. Like being swallowed by something
larger.” [laughter] It is good.
Kristin: And then speaking the truest truth, once Dawn is upstairs—even though
Dawn can hear everything that they’re saying— “If she’s chosen, her life is short
and brutal. And if not, she’s—her life smells of unfulfilled potential.” I mean…you
know, like, Anya cuts to the quick with it all. This is the scene where I was like,
wait, what did Joyce say to Dawn?
Jenny: Mm, mmhmm.
Kristin: Because basically, Dawn is like, I don’t know if you should tell Buffy. I’m
panicked about you telling Buffy because of what Joyce said. For those of you who
have a goldfish brain like mine, Joyce said to Dawn—ghost Joyce— “When it’s bad,
Buffy won’t choose you. She’ll be against you.” So this is still in Dawn’s brain and—
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: She doesn’t think it’s a good idea for Buffy to know. I don’t think it’s a
good idea for—I mean, of course Buffy would have to know. But like, I don’t think
that Buffy will be excited at all. I agree with, like, Xander and that camp of thinking,
which is like, she’s gonna be fucking—are you kidding? Dawn says it herself, like,
“So if I become a Slayer, that means that my sister died.” Like, there is—this is not
fun. This is not celebratory. This is—I mean, luckily it’s also not true. So. [laughs]
Jessie: Yeah, this is the last thing Buffy would want for Dawn, is to—
Kristin: Last.
Jessie: Be a Potential or be—like, that—even as sort of standoffish as Buffy’s being
with Dawn in this episode, like, this is the last thing she wants for Dawn.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jessie: You know?
Jenny: Actually. I’m having a moment of clarity, I think? Because we recently
discussed this. The current Slayer lineage. Buffy died. Kendra was called. Kendra
died. Faith was called. Buffy died again, no one was called.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Nobody was called.


Jenny: Buffy wouldn’t actually have to die for Dawn—if Dawn was a Potential
Slayer to become the Slayer. Faith would.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Faith would!
Jessie: Yeah.
Kristin: Even worse. [laughs]
Jenny: Nobody’s thinking about Faith, ever!
Kristin: Yeah, that is true, though. That’s true.
Jessie: Yeah. Yeah, whatever the, like, Slayer line whatever—like, Buffy’s clearly
been taken out of the running. ‘Cause right, if another Slayer wasn’t called when
she died, then like, yeah.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jessie: It would be Faith—whoever Faith’s predecessor is would be—would happen,
as opposed to Buffy’s. If—like—
Kristin: Right.
Jessie: Faith’s death would cause a predecessor.
Kristin: Well, this is what Botox’s Eye was on and on about last episode. [Jessie
laughs] You know? The Eye was like, “She broke the fucking matrix, man. I don’t
know. We don’t know what to do with her, she broke something.” [laughs] Anyway.
Dawn is overhearing all of this upstairs. And she is…freaking out, but also, has a
moment where she looks at herself in the mirror and she’s like, “I’m chosen.” And
then she climbs out the window. Because she still is also sixteen.
Jenny: [simultaneously] They really gotta nail that thing shut, man.
Kristin: I mean, seriously. [laughs]
Jenny: She’s getting out willy-nilly, left and right, all the time!
Kristin: [simultaneously] Oh my god. Willy-nilly.
Jessie: [simultaneously] Like, put a bell on it or something. [laughter]


Kristin: They should put a bell on Dawn, actually. [laughter]
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Jenny, I think it’s very funny that you said “willy-nilly,” since we then roll
over into Willy’s bar. Although Willy—I don’t know. I just assume it’s Willy’s bar.
Jessie: Is this Willy’s bar? ‘Cause I was—
Kristin: I mean, it’s—it looks like Willy’s bar, but Willy isn’t in it.
Jenny: Do we think there’s more than one—if there’s more than one demon bar
anywhere, it’s Sunnydale, probably.
Kristin: That’s true. Yeah.
Jenny: So uncertain.
Kristin: Uncertain. Willy isn’t there, and I’m fine keeping with the “if Willy is there,
it’s Willy’s bar and if Willy is not there, it’s not Willy’s bar.” [laughs] Math of it.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: But they arrive at a demon bar. A demon bar, like a gay bar, but with
demons. True! [laughter] Not incorrect.
Jessie: Which I was just like—I was like, so you mean a dive gay bar, really.
[laughter] ‘Cause, like, I’m like, I feel like I’ve been in this demon bar before.
Kristin: Yeah. [laughter] But like, the demons need to go somewhere where they
can feel safe with each other, just like at a gay bar, you know? It’s like—similar
politics at play here.
Jenny: We get it.
Kristin: Yeah, we get it.
Jessie: Yeah.
Kristin: Well, I mean. We, heterosexual people, [Jessie laughs] can sort of—


Jenny: Oh, right. I mean…we, in theory, get it.
Kristin: [simultaneously] We can understand it. We can understand it. So yeah,
they’re there so that they can learn another lesson. The first thing I learned is that
at the bar, they drink yak urine shots and pig butt spritzers.
Jenny: [laughs] No.
Kristin: Tell you what, if I was in this writers’ room, pig butt spritzers would have
been my contribution, one thousand percent. [Jessie laughs] The one—I was like,
yes, nailed it! [laughs]
Jenny: Pig. Butt. Spritzers! No!
Kristin: This also isn’t true. Like, definitely there’s real alcohol in this bar. We’ve
seen the demons—
Jenny: For sure!
Jessie: Yeah.
Kristin: Seen ‘em drinking alcohol.
Jenny: If there’s one thing Spike loves, it’s drinking beer.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: We see him do it all the time.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: There’s no way that they’re not serving the beer-drinking demon populace
in this bar. [Kristin laughs]
Jessie: Right. You’re not having a yak urine shot without some, like—topping it off
with some vodka or something. Like, that’s just—
Kristin: Right?
Jenny: Yes.


Kristin: Or I could see a nice Pabst Blue Ribbon going with a yak urine shot. You
know? [Jessie laughs]
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: You do your yak urine shot and you’ve got your Pabst Blue, yeah.
Jessie: Oh my god. They taste exactly the same. [laughter]
Jenny: Buffy’s going off about how, “oh, you come in here and it’s real serious. And
any one of these demons could just rip your throat out, so you gotta know how to
handle yourself.” And then up walks Clem! Who’s like, “Gi-ir-irl! [laughter] I am so
glad—I was trying to Teevo something for you the other day. What—how have you
been?”
Kristin: Love that—like, I just really wanna know what it was on the History
channel that he was like, “Buffy would fucking love this.” Like, what was it?
Jenny: [laughing] Yeah!
Jessie: It’s a special about Joan of Arc. I don’t know.
Kristin: Oooh! Nice. Ooh, you did that quick. [laughter]
Jenny: Remember when she got really into Rasputin? In Season 4?
Kristin: Oh, yeahhh! Good point.
Jenny: I think it was Season 4 or—
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Yeah, ‘cause she was still in college—
Kristin: [simultaneously] ‘Cause she was in college.
Jenny: And her professor was making fun of her.
Kristin: Mmhmm, mmhmm. Yeah, that fucking dickhead. I remember that guy.


Jessie: I also—sorry, I also have to point out that I like how clearly Clem and Buffy
still hang out. But like, Clem did not even say hi to Spike, who I thought were buds.
[laughter]
Jenny: [laughing] Ohh, yeah!
Jessie: And I’m like, wowww. What happened there?
Jenny: ‘Cause like—and isn’t Clem—oh my gosh, because Clem was staying in
Spike’s crypt. Maybe Spike was like, “Can I have my crypt back?” and Clem was
like, “Yeahhh…possession is nine-tenths of the law. [laughter] I’m just gonna stay in
this sweet crypt that I have made my own.”
Kristin: I don’t know, I feel like Clem—like, Buffy and Spike have done a lot of,
like, restorative work together. And perhaps Clem and Spike haven’t, like, worked
through some of what happened in Season 6.
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: You know? Like, maybe that’s the distance.
Jessie: I feel like Clem seems like the kinda friend who would be like, “Man, that
was fucked up, Spike. I don’t know if I can talk to you anymore.”
Kristin: Yes! A thousand percent.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: ‘Cause Clem didn’t know what was up. You know? And then he certainly
learned what was up. So yeah, that’s the story, I agree. Kennedy—
Jenny: Kennedy—[laughs]
Kristin: Kennedy. It’s like—so Rona is like, aww yeah, Buffy’s sleeping with
demons. [Jessie laughs] Hell yeah. [laughter] Kennedy is not having it, at all.
Kennedy’s like, “You think she dated him too? Like, what is the deal with this
Slayer?” You know? And then [laughs] Buffy basically tells Clem—why? What is the
lesson here? I don’t understand the point, but it’s funny. She whispers—
Jenny: Perhaps—
Kristin: Yeah.


Jenny: Even demons that seem really nice and try to Teevo things for you could
have something under the surface of which you are unaware.
Kristin: Nice, Jenny.
Jenny: Threats at every turn.
Kristin: Amanda and Dawn run into each other on the street. “What are you
doing?” “I’m just walking. What are you doing?” “I’m just walking.” Takes a
minute—
Jenny: Just two gals out for a walk.
Kristin: Just two gals.
Jessie: At night, in Sunnydale. [laughs]
Kristin: Amanda—so from what we are to understand with all the information we
eventually get is that Amanda was at the school, there was a vamp. She was like,
“My counselor, Buffy, who also seems to be more than just a counselor said to come
to her for help.” Amanda went all the way to Buffy’s house, got hit by the orange
ball. And then after that, this is when she’s running into Dawn? So she’s just been
lapping? She’s just been, like, walking around the block?
Jenny: Maybe trying to work up the nerve. Or get un-discombobulated.
Kristin: Get un-discombobulated, right, right, right. So yeah, she talks to Dawn
about the vamp that she saw. But she doesn’t know—she doesn’t say vamp. She
says, “He looked funny right here,” and like, touches the bridge of her nose. And
Dawn is like, “I know what you’re talking about and I believe you. My sister’s out.
But don’t worry. I’ve got this. I’ll take this one.”
Jessie: It’s so good! It’s just like…no hesitation to be like, “Oh, I got you. We can
take care of this.” I’m like, aww, Dawn!
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Dawn fucking rules! I love Dawn so much. And like, I kept—when I was,
like, falling in love with Dawn earlier in the series, I kept thinking, like, maybe
it’ll—like, maybe this will wear off. Like, maybe I’ll understand why people have


such a problem with Dawn. And the more the series has gone on, the more I’m like,
I love her. This episode is, obviously, a winner for her, but.
Jessie: I think it helps where it’s like, I think in Season 5, it seems like the way
that they’ve written is, like, two years younger than what Michelle
Trachtenbaum’s— [sic]
Kristin: Yeah.
Jessie: Actual age is. So it’s a bit of a cognitive dissonance about, like, you know,
how much of, like, whiny younger sister makes sense.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Mmhmm, yeah.
Jessie: But I think, like, at this point, Season 7, it’s like, okay, well. They figured
out how to write you like a teenager who’s like, for the most part, chill with all the
weird shit happening in her life, you know?
Kristin: Yeah.
Jessie: And then we get to have these moments—
Jenny: Yeah.
Jessie: Where Dawn gets to be like, oh, I know what to do. Like, I’ve been to
enough Scooby meetings. Like…
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jessie: We don’t need to involve Buffy at all. She’s busy with the other Potentials,
so, you know.
Kristin: Mmhmm. Dawn is [singing] taking care of business. [Jessie laughs]
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: So—I don’t know, sometimes things just come to me, you know?
Jessie: Also, Dawn’s Letterman-esque jacket here is very cute.


Kristin: It is. It is! They go to the school. ‘Cause Dawn’s gonna take care of
business, and the vamp has seemingly gotten out of the glass room. But actually,
he’s just a really dramatic vampire. [laughs] Who has, for no reason—’cause
certainly—
Jenny: For no reason.
Kristin: None.
Jenny: He’s just been hanging out in a room, the door’s not locked anymore. He’s
suspended up there, and they’re standing right under him. When the camera’s close
on his face, he is loudly breathing. [laughter] He’s like, [breathes loudly]. They’re
right under him, and you’re gonna tell me that they don’t hear that?
Kristin: Oh, god. He’s like, did you guys see that episode with the Queller demon?
I took a couple of notes. You know? [Jenny laughs] So this guy jumps down and
he’s chasing them through the school. The doors—these fucking doors at this
school. This always happens. Why would they lock from the inside? This is not the
first time that people have been locked inside of Sunnydale High School.
Jessie: Like, why do the doors lock from the inside, but apparently the windows
just aren’t locked automatically? I’m just like, what—
Kristin: Right. ‘Cause they fully just pop those open all the time to sneak in. Yeah.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Dawn, killing it. Killing it!
Jenny: Look at her, man.
Kristin: Fucking elbow right through the glass, grabs the fire extinguisher. Her
initial impulse was to just, like, blow the foam at the vampire. [laughs] But she
can’t figure out how to do that, so she just fucking clocks him with it, like, three
times.
Jenny: Yes!
Jessie: Which I love so much. ‘Cause it does kinda remind me—’cause like, earlier,
we get the, “oh, it’s in your—it’s in the family, it’s in your blood.” But it’s like, this is
very reminiscent of Joyce in School Hard. And I’m like, it does run in the family!


Kristin: [gasps] Yes.
Jenny: Oh, yeah! [everybody “awws”]
Kristin: Oh, no! You’re right. Oh my god, remember when she’s inside of
the—okay, yeah. [laughter]
Jessie: And I’m like, aww. So.
Kristin: Memories. Oh, that’s—now that’s even sweeter. Shit. [sighs] So we take a
brief detour from the vamp chase at the school, and we go to this crypt, which
IM—whoever wrote the IMDB description thought was Spike’s crypt. Spike would
never have a Pearl Jam poster on his wall, guys.
Jenny: A Pearl Jam poster!
Kristin: A Pearl Jam poster.
Jessie: Okay, wait. I have a question for both of you. So, okay.
Jenny: Mm.
Kristin: Mmm.
Jessie: So they went from the Summers’ house to a random bar to this crypt. How
are they getting around on this field trip? Are they—I wanna imagine they’re all
crammed into Spike’s car. But they could also just be walking.
Kristin: [laughing] I just imagined them—do you know, like—I’m sure in any city,
this is a thing. But certainly in New York City, like, children’s daycares? Like, they’ll
have a lot of three-year-olds and so they’ll put little, like, wristbands on all—it’s like
a dog leash [laughter] but like, with many appendages, you know? [laughter]
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: That’s what I pictured, the minute you were like, how are they getting
them all around? [laughter]
Jenny: Oh yeah. Or they’re just—they walk in a line, but everybody has to hold
hands with the person in front of them?


Kristin: [simultaneously] A buddy. [Jessie laughs] Oh, in front of them? I thought
you were gonna say, like, they all have a buddy. They have a buddy system.
[laughter] Yeah, they have been jaunting about town. Although Sunnydale is, what?
Two and a half blocks wide, so they don’t have that far to go.
Jessie: Yeah.
Jenny: That’s what they say. [laughter]
Kristin: Spike just really wants everyone to know that although yes, it is common
for vamp nests to be in a state of disarray like this one, that there are some
vampires who have a sense of style, and taste.
Jenny: His place was actually nice. Actually?
Kristin: It really was. And Buffy—
Jenny: It was.
Jessie: [simultaneously] He had all those cool rugs and shit. Like, it was nice.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: So many rugs that you could sleep underneath them, if you wanted to.
[laughter]
Jenny: “Sleep.”
Kristin: “Sleep.” [laughter] Yeah, Buffy says, “Yeah, his place was really comfy.”
And Kennedy, still pissed, “Excuse me?! What were you doing—?” Kennedy, you
know. Okay, so stop fishing.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: She’s really fishing.
Jenny: The look that passes between the Potentials at this moment. [laughs]
Jessie: And it’s like, Buffy, you should have known. ‘Cause you know the minute,
like, when a high school teacher mentions something about another teacher or their
personal life, and you’re like, [gasps]. I know exactly what’s going on now. That is


the moment that all the Potentials were like, oh yeah, Spike and Buffy have totally
boned. Like—
Kristin: Yeah.
Jessie: You just—you might as well just have said it out loud, the way you’ve
confirmed it.
Kristin: Oh my god, when I was in high school, my English teacher started dating
another English teacher at the high school. And like, we could not—we could not get
enough of it. Like, we couldn’t—you know—it was just like—he would come in and
he had, like, a piece of paper and we’d be like, ohhhhhh! [laughter] They got
married and they have, like, six kids, so you know. It worked.
Jessie: [whispers] Six?!
Kristin: Yeah, they had so many kids.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: So it worked out for them.
Jessie: [laughing] That’s so many kids.
Kristin: It’s so many kids. Anyway. So there’s a body, or they think there’s a body.
I mean, I guess it is a body of some kind there. And Buffy’s like, “That’s not a body.
That’s leftovers.” So this guy was eaten by the vamps, but only partially, and now
he himself is a vamp.
Jenny: Do you think it’s weird at all that Buffy is like, “Look all around this crypt for
signs that just last night, there were vampires where you’re standing.”
Kristin: Yeah. This is—
Jenny: And it’s like, okay, there’s sleeping bags everywhere. Not necessarily
vampire, okay. Pearl Jam poster. Could go either way. I guess—okay, now that I’ve
talked myself through it, people who are not vampires could be getting up to all
that other stuff.
Kristin: Yeah.


Jenny: And truly this body could just be the one sign that there—okay. I’ve talked
myself through it. Thank you for listening.
Kristin: But it’s clearly—listen. You know. This reminds me of, like, doing a—like, if
I’m gonna do a talk at a school and it’s the first time I’ve ever done it, you know?
And I’m like, okay, I’m definitely gonna hit all of these bullet points. And then, like,
in practice—you know, the second time I do the talk, I’m like, okay, maybe we
didn’t need to go to the vamp nest. Maybe that was silly. [laughs]
Jessie: I think what gets me every time is how cavalier Buffy is about this body.
Like, possibly because I’ve watched way too much Law & Order SVU. I, like—every
time I go for a hike or a walk in a park I’ve never been to, I’m like, what if I find a
dead body? That’d be the worst. [laughs] And Buffy’s just—and everyone’s just,
“There’s a body here!” and she’s like, whatever. And I’m like, no, Buffy. [laughter]
This is kind of a big deal.
Kristin: I know. She’s really in a particular mood, this episode.
Jenny: Yeah, she’s got a real thing going on.
Kristin: So this is when we start the very serious back and forth between—we’re
seeing Amanda and Dawn with the vamp at the school. And then we’re seeing—
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: The Potentials with the vamp and Buffy for a little while in the crypt, in the
nest, whatever you wanna call it.
Jenny: I think this is good and effective. And the number one thing that it gives me
is like, yes, go Dawn. Dawn is doing everything Buffy is saying—
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And it’s so sick! And the fact that we, like, get to the end of this episode
and like, the takeaway is somehow, Dawn, you’re extraordinary but you’re not
special. And I just think, like…I just—it just feels like such an undersell. Like, she’s
such a badass and she’s so capable. And she’s, like, leading the charge this whole
time with somebody who is, like, born or imbued with—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: This specialness that they’re all kind of hopped up about.


Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: But Dawn’s kicking ass! And I don't care who knows it. I’m telling you both
and anyone listening.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jessie: Yeah. I mean, this is another reason why Dawn should really be, you know,
with the Potentials, helping them out. Because yes, Dawn is doing everything that
Buffy is, you know, saying the Potentials should be doing. And it’s like, well, Dawn
and Amanda are doing better than your crop of Potentials. So there’s really, like,
you know—
Jenny: Right?
Jessie: If you could bring those two together. [laughs]
Kristin: Right!
Jessie: You could really be helping everyone, I think.
Kristin: And like, it’s like—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: It would be one thing if, like, Buffy didn’t connect those dots right away.
But like, as—just in the show—you want the show to connect those dots and it fully
just doesn’t. It’s like, nope. Still the chosen ones and the other ones. And I don’t
get it. Dawn is like—I guess I said this already. But like, the way she’s talking to
Amanda and getting Amanda to move into action is incredible. Just incredible. And
then, like, the overlap of Buffy saying to them, like, “Everything is a weapon, to a
Slayer.” And Dawn just, like, busting open the beakers on the vamp’s head and
then—
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Fucking slamming the flag over her knee to make a stake!
Jenny: Yes! Yes!
Kristin: [simultaneously] And like, just so good! It’s so good.


Jenny: Dude, I do love—kind of early on in this back and forth—when we’re in the
crypt and Buffy is saying, like, “No one’s safe. See this guy?” And Kennedy’s like,
“He was dead a minute ago.” And Buffy’s like, “That was a minute ago.” That…got
me.
Kristin: You liked that? That was a good—
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Camp counselor Buffy moment for you?
Jenny: Yeah! [laughter]
Jessie: Yeah. And then, I mean—which goes into maybe the not great camp
counselor, which is like, have fun in this crypt! And then it’s like they both leave to
go to the high school? So I’m like, you just left these—like—?
Kristin: They just left! Right, like, what?
Jessie: That’s not how—
Jenny: Good luck!
Jessie: None of this is how you should be teaching the Potentials how to protect
them—you could have come back to, like, four slaughtered girls and no Potentials.
Like, Buffy, what?
Kristin: And also, like—
Jenny: No.
Kristin: You know, it’s not like we’ve seen them kill vamps with supervision and
protection before.
Jenny: Mmhmm!
Kristin: They went right from Spike, a vampire who they knew wasn’t going to kill
them, to being left alone with a vampire who fully would kill them, if given the
chance.
Jenny: Yeah!


Kristin: It doesn’t. Make. Sense. I…I just wanna highlight—okay, I wanna highlight
two things. One is a great moment between Amanda and Dawn, where Dawn says,
“I don’t know what I’m doing.” And Amanda says, “You’re getting it done.” So
fucking good.
Jenny: Yeah, awesome.
Kristin: And then I think, like, right after that, we go and we’re in either voice over
or actually in the crypt. And Buffy says, “It’s not what do you think, it’s what do you
know.” That felt like a good camp counselor moment from Buffy, of like—
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: You cannot wonder. You have to commit. You cannot think about if it’s
wrong or it’s right, and that’s the only way you can win is just by knowing that you
are correct. Cool—good advice. Better, perhaps, not in a crypt where you’re gonna
leave them with a vampire, but on paper, it’s good. [Jessie laughs]
Jenny: Buffy’s kind of echoing the conversation that she has with Spike in Fool for
Love here. She’s saying, “It just takes one vamp to kill you.” And Spike—you know,
it reminded me heavily of Spike—
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Talking about how, you know, he just needs to have one good day.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: You know?
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Which is—which is a good—I don’t know—a good cloud of fear to have in
the back of your mind.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Followed by the useful prompts of like, know your environment, know
what’s around you, know how to use it. That all seems good. But what if you just
stayed [laughter] and like, looked in the window or something?


Kristin: I mean, I don’t—so there’s like—
Jenny: Or stayed in the room and didn’t help!
Kristin: It’s like, Buffy—so the way that the scene—I’m gonna give—I don’t think
they effectively do this. But—like, in the episode. But I will say that the scene in the
crypt where they close the doors is immediately followed by, at the Summers’
house, Xander and Anya and Willow realizing that Dawn is gone. So there is, I
think, timeline-wise, a chance that Buffy and Spike stayed there. ‘Cause
Willow—because Willow and Xander and Anya, they must have to go to the
cemetery, ‘cause there are no phones on Buffy. Which is ridiculous that she
wouldn’t bring her phone. That’s really the most ridiculous thing to me. [laughter]
But so let’s just say they stayed there. It’s still not good, but let’s just say they
stayed there, they saw the vamp get slayed. Then Willow and Xander get there and
they’re like, yo, you gotta go to the high school. [laughs] Or whatever. Dawn’s gone
missing.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: Maybe. Maybe. So the Bringers arrive at the school. And Dawn fucking
uses the bunsen burner and, like, some fucking chemicals in this science classroom
to, like, send a cloud of fire at the Bringers to save Amanda. Stunning work.
Jenny: Dude. Which she’s doing because she’s expecting the Bringers to come for
her, but no, they just all flock to Amanda. And she’s like, “No, you want…me.”
Kristin: “Me.” Yeah.
Jenny: Ohh, Dawn!
Kristin: [sighs] So this is the moment where, like, Xander refers to it later as like,
Dawn just immediately handing the crown to Amanda without missing a beat. And it
is really powerful. It’s like, clearly Dawn is the one who has been raised amidst
[laughs] Slayers and witches and demons and fighting. Because she is like, the only
way that you can do this is to, like, do what you do best. So it’s clear to me that
you’re a Potential Slayer, go, fight them. You need—this is your battle, right? And
I’ve got your—and she says, “I’ve got your back.” Like, I feel like Dawn’s analysis of
this is correct. And Xander’s watching. Buffy’s there, and Amanda slays this vamp
while Buffy and Spike just knives through every Bringer that’s there. Except for
one.
Jenny: Yeah.


Kristin: Buffy does a fucking sick neck-snap on one of those Bringers. [laughter]
Jessie: Which I guess—sorry. So the Bringers, like, are not human enough to, like,
trip Spike’s chip?
Jenny: To like—count?
Jessie: Yeah.
Kristin and Jenny: [simultaneously] Oh!
Jenny: Spike’s chip. I think they’ve been—
Kristin: [simultaneously] They’re not human. Yeah.
Jenny: Changed. They began as human, but I think they’ve been sort of, like,
changed on a fundamental level by the First.
Jessie: Okay.
Kristin: We just did this Wiki lookup in our last episode. I was like, are they
humans? [laughs] What are they?
Jenny: Something that really stood out to me while they were still in the chemistry
lab or whatever class that was—was dang, man. We—we? At least I—went to high
school and sat at a desk where there was a thing that I could turn on gas that I
could light on fire. And that was just…chill.
Kristin: Is that not true anymore?
Jenny: Oh, no, no, no. I’m saying, like, I mean, it’s probably still true, at least in
some schools. But it just seems like a totally—
Kristin: Wild.
Jenny: Questionable thing. Like, I’m like, they let me sit there? With that?
[laughter] And also use it sometimes?
Kristin: I agree, completely. Completely. I don’t understand it. I mean, I did fine. I
never exploded anything.


Jenny: Yeah. Nobody got hurt, I guess. But…[laughs] still.
Kristin: But like, come on. Please email us if you ever, like, lit your cigarette on a
bunsen burner. [Jessie laughs] I wanna know. ‘Cause you’re listening and you
wanna tell me—
Jenny: Yes, call us.
Kristin: Tell me. And also, if you’re in high school, don’t you fucking dare.
[laughter] The podcast does not condone doing anything with bunsen burners,
actually, at all. Not even science. [laughs]
Jessie: Yeah, that’s how you burn your face.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: Burn your face right off.
Jessie: [simultaneously] So don’t, don’t do that.
Kristin: [sighs] Okay. So…Amanda is like—
[Clip from episode plays]
Amanda: Okay. One minute I’m in swing choir. And the next—what the hell’s
going on?
Kristin: Amanda is such a great nerd, and we’ve talked about Amanda, ‘cause
obviously this is not the first time we’ve met her. It’s just when we learned that she
is a Potential, but I just love her. This is also where we learn that she was at the
door, right? She was at the door when the spell happened—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And that’s the whole reason for it. Back in the living room, the girls are still
trying to have a good time. [laughter] They are just—still reaching for fun. They’re
laughing about their slay, four helpless girls. Vi’s like, “No, I just said that we were
four helpless girls so that I could just make him think we were four helpless girls.
That was actually totally fine.” [Jenny laughs] And basically, they’re talking about
this realization that they had, which is that once it all started—I think it’s Rona
who’s like, “Once it all started going down, it was like we knew what we were
doing.” It was like they felt—in that moment, they felt that their instincts kicked in.


Which is important. Like, that is really important, that you know that, in your mind,
you might not be able to imagine it. But like, when it’s actually happening—
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: There’s something in you that will activate and that will, like, allow you to
fight.
Jenny: That’s also what happened to Dawn.
Jessie: Yeah.
Kristin: Yeah. It’s been happening to Dawn—
Jenny: Which nobody’s talking about!
Kristin: I mean, it’s fucking been happening—Dawn’s been doing this for at least a
season and a half. Dawn’s listening at the door, and she’s feeling sad. And Buffy is
like, “Are you alright?” ‘Cause Buffy never know—well, at least she doesn’t know at
this point. I don’t know if she ever finds out, because I don’t remember anything
about this television show. [laughter] But she doesn’t know what happened in
Dawn’s arc. And Dawn’s like, “Yeah, I’m okay. I’m just gonna go, like, hit the books
again. You know, the First has taken a break right now and like you said, we need
to learn everything that we can.” And then we get to our last scene.
Jenny: Xander’s having a moment. With Dawn.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: ‘Cause he’s seen some things. And he’s lived some things.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: And it’s good. It’s good that—[laughs] it’s good that he is saying this. I feel
like it’s not enough? I feel like Dawn still isn’t getting, like, enough credit by the end
of this.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: But he does see.
Kristin: I mean—


Jenny: He saw her give it up immediately to Amanda, and just tell her, like, this is
actually your thing and I am here to support you. And that is…chill.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And then he makes this—he says, you know, “they’re special,” talking about
the Potentials. “They’re special, but none of them will ever know—not even
Buffy—how much harder it is for the rest of us.”
Kristin: Mmhmm. Jenny is making a face, which I think means she has more to
say. But let’s play the clip that comes right after that. Because Xander says that it’s
a lot harder for the Xanders and the Dawns of the world than it is for them. And
then he continues with this speech. We’re gonna give you the whole thing, because
we care.
[Clip from episode plays]
Dawn: No way. They’ve got the—
Xander: Seven years, Dawn. Working with the Slayer. Seeing my friends get
more and more powerful. A witch, a demon. Hell, I could fit Oz in my shaving
kit, but come a full moon, he had a wolfy mojo not to be messed with.
Powerful. All of them. And I'm the guy who fixes the windows.
Dawn: Well, you had that sexy army training for a while, and—and the
windows really did need fixing.
Xander: I saw what you did last night.
Dawn: Yeah, I—I guess I kinda lost my head when I thought I was the
Slayer.
Xander: Well, you thought you were all special. Miss Sunnydale 2003. And
the minute you found out you weren't, you handed the crown to Amanda
without a moment's pause. You gave her your power.
Dawn: The power wasn't mine.
Xander: They'll never know how tough it is, Dawnie, to be the one who isn't
chosen. To live so near to the spotlight and never step in it. But I know. I see


more than anybody realizes because nobody's watching me. I saw you last
night. I see you working here today. You're not special. You're extraordinary.
Kristin: So. It’s a beautiful speech, and I think it’s beautiful coming from Xander. I
think this is exactly—this is, like, truly one of the most gracious and loving
moments that has passed between Xander and Dawn, and probably the most that
anyone has ever really sat with Dawn and, like, loved her?
Jenny: Mm.
Kristin: And said “I see you”? And it’s really great. And like, from Xander, I expect
this. Because this is Xander’s reality and this is, like, really what he has lived for the
last seven years. It’s really from the rest of the group—it’s like, I want everyone to
explain to Xander and Dawn that actually, they are just as powerful as everyone
else. They might not heal—their skin might not heal as quickly, their bones might
not heal as quickly, they might not be able to jump as literally high as a Slayer. But
that they are pretty powerful. And Dawn is a fighter. Like, a true fighter.
Jenny: That’s like—maybe that’s, like, what’s so frustrating. Even though this is,
like, great. What is frustrating is that, like, for Xander to be the only person who
sees and acknowledges this? Is like, mmm! That’s just not enough. And also,
respect to Xander. I think he’s doing really great this season, so far. But Dawn has
only existed for, you know, two and a half seasons, and she has already developed
more skills—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Than Xander has in seven years.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: You know, like, she has really thrown herself into this and applied herself
and like, worked really hard to get where she is. And she’s been taking notes from
Buffy for—ever since she stopped being a mystical ball of energy. [laughter] You
know, and she’s got the leadership skills to prove it!
Kristin: [simultaneously] Also the idea that she isn’t—yeah. The idea that she isn’t
spec—I mean, regardless of what we mean when we say special. Like, the girl was
a key! She was a mystical ball—
Jessie: Yeah.


Kristin: She’s pretty fucking special.
Jenny: She can open a door between realities! [laughter]
Jessie: I know. How easy everyone seems to have forgotten that. I’m like, some
lingering specialness still—
Kristin: Yeah.
Jessie: Like, I don’t believe any of this, like, oh, well, you know, Glory’s gone.
You’re not really special anymore. I’m like, actually, yes? [laughs]
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Yeah. She had her memories written into her being by monks.
Jessie: Yeah.
Kristin: Like, she’s definitely not just your average younger sister.
Jessie: Yeah. Yeah. I mean, and I will say to anyone that I am not the biggest
Xander fan, for a variety of reasons. But I think in this episode, like, not only the
importance of what he’s saying to Dawn. But like, he’s the perfect person to be
giving this. And I think that—and even though he really downplays—is like, “oh, I’m
just the guy who fixes the windows.” I’m like, but that is so necessary, to have
someone doing that kind of work. Like, how much worse would Buffy and the
Potentials and, like, whatever, have felt, coming back to their home and there was
still no window? You know?
Jenny: Oh yeah.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jessie: And I think the fact that that isn’t really acknowledged—or like, you know,
when he’s bringing the donuts in earlier seasons. It’s like, you need to be fueling
your late night study, you know, searching, doing the research.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jessie: And like…I mean, it’s not, like, flashy, like magic or like being the chosen
one.


Jenny: Mmhmm.
Jessie: But that’s still just so important. And just…is the kind of thing you can do if
you’re not the chosen one, but you’re still choosing to be part of the fight—is that,
like—you can kind of define the role and really play your strengths. You know.
Which I think overall is, like, why I really like this episode. Because, like, if Dawn
was like, “I actually don’t want anything to do with what’s happening,” Buffy would
be thrilled. She’d be like, great, you can just go to school. Focus on going to
college, don’t think about fucking vampires and demons and the First. And just,
like, remove yourself. Buffy would be thrilled. But Dawn is making this
conscious—like, she’s making the choice to, like, enter the fight and figure out for
herself what, like, her own powers are, what her own strengths are and what she
can bring to the table, to the fight. To, like, you know, the sort of collective found
family against evil, as it were. So.
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: And like, what does that say too about the fact that—it doesn’t—not to
undervalue Buffy’s power and the Potentials’ abilities and all of this stuff. But they
really do not have a choice—they don’t have a choice as to what they’re doing.
Whereas Xander and Willow and Dawn and, you know, the list continues—have
made the choice—Anya—they’ve made the choice over and over and over and over
again to stay.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And I think that there’s value there that is sort of appreciated? But not
appreciated to the level that I think it’s owed. Because they could all be doing
whatever. You know, like, Xander could just be fucking working his construction job
and, like, checking in to see—you still alive?
Jessie: Yeah.
Kristin: You doing okay? Okay. We’re having dinner at my place on Tuesday. You
know?
Jessie: Right. Yeah, he could be just vacationing in Florida, making money hand
over fist, in construction. [Kristin laughs] But he’s like, at your house, doing this
work for free. [laughs]


Jenny: Mmhmm!
Kristin: Yes. Yes. Yes.
Jessie: And I mean, we learned in Season 6, Buffy, with your copper rebar
whatever. Like…[Jenny laughs]
Kristin: Oh my god.
Jessie: Like, the importance of that kind of support is, like—it’s just—it’s so
undervalued. And I mean, I think in general, like, kind of care work—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Yes.
Jessie: Is so undervalued, really.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Jessie: But like, you know. So it’s…I think that’s kinda why it also feels frustrating
that like, Dawn and Xander are having this moment. But like, no one else is
acknowledging what Dawn and, to a lesser extent, Xander are bringing to the
group.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jessie: So.
Jenny: Yeah.
Jessie: Or what they—with Dawn, what she could be bringing, that could really just
enrich and enhance the experience of, like, trying to stay alive.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And it’s like, such a bummer that Xander’s experience of the whole situation
too is just like, yeah, I’m just this guy. I’m—yeah. Nobody…nobody says thanks for
fixing the windows, essentially.


Kristin: And they don’t.
Jenny: And like, keeping headquarters up to speed.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: And secure. What a drag.
Jessie: Yeah.
Kristin: Yeah. And you know—you said this, but I just wanna underline it—that like,
in life, in real life outside of Sunnydale, care work is undervalued. And—but so is
work that supports the foundation of function—like, functioning and life is so
undervalued.
Jessie: Yeah.
Kristin: And you know, meanwhile, like, people who have flashier jobs or do things
that are, like, fun and interesting, in air quotes, are really sort of picked up and
elevated. Whereas the people that make it possible for them to put one foot in front
of the other and function in their day to day lives are not valued. And you said that,
but I just wanted to say it again.
Jessie: I mean, it’s like—it’s just a super important conversation to have. And I’m
like, kind of glad that the show is having it in this episode. I mean—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jessie: Season 7, you know, kind of a late time to be having this conversation.
[laughter] But you know, better late than never, I guess. [laughs]
Kristin: Mmhmm. Yes.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Dawn sort of, like, hearkens back to one of the things that Xander has said
in this speech, which is that “I see more than anyone realizes, because no one is
watching me.” And she says, “Maybe that’s your power. Seeing, knowing.” And I
think we’ve been saying as much, and I was thinking specifically about—I think it
was this season? Or late last season, when Xander came—made the weapons chest
for Buffy. Like, he crafted this beautiful—


Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: And like, he really has. Like, he has—please. This podcast is a space where
we have many an issue with the character of Xander Harris. [laughter] But this is
something that he is really good at doing. He does pay attention and see things
where a lot of people do not, because they’re busy doing X, Y or Z. And it’s just a
really sweet moment between the two of them. They have a little cape joke at the
end. “Maybe I’ll get a cape.” Cape, yeah. It’s a very Buffy ending, you know?
Jessie: Yeah.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: Just like, a simple little line and then the credits are up.
Jenny: And then Dawn gets to work, before the credits hit.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Just back to it.
Kristin: Ooh! That, like, really visually made me think of when Buffy—remember
the scene that—just a few episodes ago, was like, Buffy didn’t know what to do
‘cause she couldn’t help Cassie? And the last cut of that episode is her back at
work, sitting down—I mean, she’s at her, like, school desk, but still.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Yeah. Life continues. The First is gonna come back someday, so.
Jessie: Yeah.
Kristin: Yeah. Well. We have some sexy to cover. [Jessie laughs] Some sexiness? Is
Rona still here? Rona, are you still here? [laughs]
Jenny: Rona?
Jessie: She’s still in her overalls, you know.
Kristin: [laughs] Rona, please join us in the space. [laughter] We are about to roll
into the Sexual Tension Awards. [laughter]


[SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays]
Sexual tension award!
Jenny: Well. Every episode, we carefully hand pick four sets of noms and shove
them into their little slots. So that you know who you can vote for in our episodic
Sexual Tension Awards. And this episode is, of course, no different. In slot number
one, who amongst us can resist the allure of a gentle touching of the bared
stomach of our [laughter] former lover and current coworker? [laughter] It’s Buffy
and Spike!
Kristin: I love—
Jenny: Yes, yes, yes.
Kristin: I just want to tell the listener that I know that in Jenny’s house, she has to
be a little quieter than usual because we’ve gone past the 3 PM mark that she had.
And I just wanna say out loud because I know that our listeners who are used to
shouting everything in the Sexual Tension Award segments—
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Are like, “Jenny is really subdued.” She’s keeping a rein on it. She’s doing
it. She’s doing it on purpose. [laughs] You’re doing a great job.
Jenny: STASMR, baby. [laughter] Sometimes I have to use my indoor voice.
[laughter] In slot number two. Beautiful friends. We’ve all been there, apologies
from me to Noah, my first grade crush, whose shins I mercilessly bloodied, over
and over again at recess. So sorry, buddy. [laughter] In that grand tradition, we
continue, a love story as old as time. It’s Amanda and that guy she’s been picking
on. [laughter] In slot number three. I don’t think this is gonna win, but I think that
it was actually Jessie’s pick and I think the listeners are—I think it’s going to strike
a chord with our beautiful listenership.
Kristin: Mmhmm. Good pick, Jessie. [laughs]
Jenny: Sometimes in a young girl’s life, she’s just out. For. A. Walk. At night, and
[gasps] [Jessie laughs] sometimes in a totally other girl’s life, she is also out for a
walk at night, in the same exact area. And they bump into each other and who
knows what could happen? In slot number three, it’s Dawn and Amanda.
Kristin: I can’t believe how many times you said “out. For. A. Walk” and did not say
“bitch.” You know what I mean? It’s like, incredible. It was just stunning.


Jenny: Not to Dawn and Amanda. I would never.
Kristin: No. It just—yeah.
Jessie: Um. It’s a meet cute, bitch. That’s what it is, okay. [laughter]
Jenny: And in slot number four. God bless us, everyone.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: I’m so pleased. [laughter]
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: With this roundup. In slot number four, she cannot be contained, she will
not deny the attraction that dare not speak its name. It’s Rona and Spuffy. It’s Rona
and the combination of Spike and Buffy. “That’s,” quoth Rona, “hot.” [laughter]
Kristin: If they don’t win, I’m firing all of you. [laughter]
Jenny: Agree.
Kristin: ‘Cause that shit was—that’s what the Sexual Tension Awards were made
for, was that shit.
Jenny: Exactly.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: 100%. We also just wanna shout out our honorable mentions in the slot five
and slot six—Dawn and bunsen burners, and Dawn and sneaking out the dang
window. [Kristin laughs] Those were some pretty compelling pairings as well, but
please, please, please consider casting your vote. Make your voice heard. Find our
Sexual Tension Award poll over on our Twitter, @BufferingCast. It will be live for one
week, beginning today. And I apologize for not being able to scream at my usual
volume.
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: I will be back to yelling next episode, for the STAs. Thank you.


Kristin: Seventh honorable mention slot is all of us and Jenny not screaming. You
know? [laughter]
Jenny: Oh, thank you.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
[SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays]
Sexual tension award!
Kristin: Um, okay! This was—I didn’t say this at the top, but this was one of—this
was a pick by you, specifically. We weren’t like, “Jessie, do you wanna be on
Potential?” It was like, “Jessie, here’s the episodes we have left. Give us some of
your top picks.” And Potential was one of your top picks. Is this one of your
favorites of the season?
Jessie: You know, I…okay, this season is…very heavy. It’s a very heavy season.
And I just like that we get a happy ending.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Mmm.
Jessie: And like, a little bit more Dawn characterization.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jessie: Because I think that—I don’t know. I never thought that Dawn deserved
the level of vitriol that people had for her. So—
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Jessie: And it’s just—I don’t know. This episode is, like—this episode’s kinda fun.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jessie: It’s just like a really solid episode to watch. So.
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah. And I agree. And actually, one of Alba’s notes was almost
exactly that, with Dawn. That like, we get more of Dawn, the person, the character,
than we usually get. And I think—I mean, I think that she deserves a lot more of
these kinds of episodes and these kind of arcs, for who she is in the show.


Jessie: Mmhmm.
Jenny: I can’t believe that we haven’t drawn this connection yet. But this is
basically The Zeppo for Dawn. This is Dawn’s The Zeppo.
Kristin: Yeah. I mean, right, except—right, it’s not from, like, her vantage point,
but it is…
Jenny: Right, but it’s like, we get to see more of her kicking ass, being in control
and, like, doing a great job. And also, we get to see everybody else not seeing it,
you know?
Kristin: Yeah.
Jessie: Yeah.
Jenny: It’s like a micro Zeppo within a [laughter] larger episode.
Jessie: Yeah.
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah, it is a good episode. Dawn fan forever. [laughter]
Jessie: I have one more thing. Which is…according to one of the Buffy Wikis,
usually the 12th episode of the season is dedicated to Buffy’s birthday, which we do
not see here.
Kristin: Mmmm.
Jenny: Mm.
Jessie: So maybe this year, Buffy just decided to not [laughing] celebrate her
birthday.
Jenny: Which honestly would be probably a smart move, for her.
Kristin: [quietly] [simultaneously] It’s about…time.
Jenny: Because every time she tries to celebrate, it never ends well.


Jessie: Yeah, I think if she would have had a birthday party, Dawn would have
been a Potential. I think that’s just how…[laughter] it’s like Murphy’s Law or
something. [laughter] So good going, Buffy.
Kristin: Good job, Buffy. Yes, credit to Buffy for not celebrating her birthday.
Fucking finally. [laughter] Well, Jessie, can you tell our listeners where they can
learn more about you and find your work and all of those good things?
Jessie: Yeah. So folks can find The Gayly Prophet and EsGAYpe From Reality, where
EsGAYpe is E-S-G-A-Y-P-E—
Kristin: EsGAYpe.
Jessie: Es-gay-pay. [laughter] You can find that wherever people listen to
podcasts. And then we’re also on Twitter and Instagram, @TheGaylyProphet and
then all of our information about all the other stuff that we do is on our website,
hashtagruthless.com.
Kristin: And the Buffy podcast is on your Patreon, right?
Jessie: It’s on our Patreon, yeah. It’s Patreon.com/thegaylyprophet. And because
we are anti-capitalist dirtbags, if you are subscribed at any level, you get all of our
Patreon offerings. So.
Kristin: Amazing.
Jenny: Nice.
Jessie: Yeah.
Kristin: Get your little Scooby butts on over there. Season 4—beginning with
Season 4.
Jessie: Beginning with Season 4.
Jenny: Incredible.
Jessie: We’re actually—we’re a couple of episodes away from the end of Season 4.
We release each episode on the full moon, so. [Kristin gasps] Extra witchy.
Kristin: Ohhh my god.


Jenny: [simultaneously] Oh my god.
Kristin: That’s incredible. [laughs]
Jessie: So yeah. We’ll be, like, a couple of episodes away from the end of Season
4. So.
Kristin: Amazing.
Jessie: So if you wanna hear a lot of…a surprising amount of Riley content.
[laughter]
Jenny: I know I’ll be racing. I’ll be running, not walking. [laughs]
Kristin: [simultaneously] Jenny is, like—you can hear the clicking of her keys.
[Jenny babbles] Jenny’s signing up right now, while we’re recording.
Jessie: Yeah. And a lot of talk about how Forrest and Riley—how Forrest is in love
with Riley. You should definitely check us out.
Jenny: Oh my god, they’re so in love. It’s so beautiful.
Kristin: [simultaneously] I mean…agree. Agree.
Jenny: Or it could have been so beautiful.
Jessie: I know.
Kristin: Seven out of seven Buffy podcasts agree. [laughter] Forrest is clearly in
love with Riley.
Jessie: Yep.
Kristin: Wow. Thank you for being here, this ruled. It was so great to have you.
Jenny: Yeah, thank you so much.
Jessie: [simultaneously] Yeah, this was so excellent. I’m glad that our
schedules—the stars finally aligned for our schedules to work out. [laughs]
Jenny: Yes.


Kristin: We’ve been trying to do this. We’ve been trying to do this for at least two
seasons, you know.
Jenny: Oh my gosh.
Kristin: We really have been—we’ve worked hard. [laughter] Alright, Jenny, tell
them who you are.
Jenny: Wha—thank you so much for asking. I am Jenny Owen Youngs and when
I’m not watching Buffy, I am writing and recording and sometimes performing
music. I’ll tell you what, I have a brand new song out, today. If you don’t mind. It’s
called Ghosts, and it’s from my fourth-coming EP, It’s Dangerous to Go Alone, which
is a collection of songs all inspired by different video games. That’ll be coming out
June 10th. And I wrote Ghosts with friend of the pod, Hrishikesh Hirway. You might
remember him, and he’s featured on the song as well. I also wanna mention that
we have—Hrishi and I have our west coast tour dates, starting this Sunday, May
8th, if you can believe it. You can find links for tickets and show info and links to
music and everything, pretty much, about me at jennyowenyoungs.com. And you
can find me on socials, @JennyOwenYoungs.
Kristin: I’ll think about it. I’ll think about finding you.
Jenny: Thanks, Kristin. [laughter]
Kristin: My name is Kristin Russo. And you can learn about the work that I do with
LGBTQ communities and specifically the talks that I do at workplaces, virtually and
in person, on my website, kristinnoeline.com. That’s K-R-I-S-T-I-N N-O-E-L-I-N-E.
And you can also use that spelling to also find me on Twitter and on Instagram, if
you would like. And you know, you can tweet at me if you wanna know what ghosts
I think Jenny is writing about. Is it the ghost—
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: Is it the ghost from Pacman? It is the ghost from Pacman?
Jenny: Nailed it. First guess, way to go.
Kristin: Nailed it. [chanting] Nailed it, nailed it, nailed it. I probably had it stored
away somewhere already in the back of my mind. [laughter] But I still feel
victorious, ‘cause I forget what I know. [laughs] Cool, what about us? As a duo?


Jenny: Oh, Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram
@BufferingCast. And you can drop us an email at
bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin: You can support us, if you’d like, on Patreon. We are
Patreon.com/bufferingcast and everything that you need to know about us, you can
find on our website, bufferingthevampireslayer.com. And I think—you know, Jessie,
are you feeling in the mood to howl out with us?
Jessie: I am.
Jenny: That is such good news. Before—well, I guess this whole—this whole little
cluster of things I’m about to say leads into—culminates, peaks,
crescendos—[laughter] to our howl. So, buckle thyself. This. Episode was produced
by Kristin Russo, Jenny Owen Youngs, and Alba Daza, with support from our
consultant, Mackenzie MacDade. It was edited by John Mark Nelson. And, Jessie,
Kristin, dear listeners. Till next time…
All three: Awwoooooooooo!
[laughter]
Jenny: I think I made myself sound like a ghost ‘cause we were talking about
ghosts. [laughter] Moments ago.
Jessie: Ghost-wolves.
Kristin: Just two wolves and a ghost. [laughter]
Jenny: Festive!
[The song “Potential” plays]

