Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 0.05: Happy 20th Anniversary, Buffy!
Jenny:​ Hello, everyone! How’s it going? So happy to be here with you for
this beautiful moment in time on this momentous anniversary, wow. What a
day.
Kristin:​ We’re very excited. It really is quite a day. Today, in case you
missed it, marks the 20th anniversary of ​Buffy the Vampire Slayer​ airing
here in the United States. It was 20 years ago today, Friday, March 10th,
1997, when we first got to gaze our eyes upon ​Buffy the Vampire Slayer​.
And, because of that, we wanted to give you a special, tiny little episode
where we talk a little bit about how we came to the show, what the show
means to us, and then we wanted to share with you a special song for today.
Jenny:​ Hell, yeah. Hellmouth, yeah. [Kristin laughs]
[Theme Song]
Jenny:​ Wow.
Kristin:​ Wow, we did it. We did it, we played the theme song of our
podcast.
Jenny:​ Effortlessly.
Kristin:​ You made a joke about “Hellmouth, yeah,” and now here we are, in
the core of this little episode
Jenny:​ On the other side of it. Yeah, you know, I was thinking about how,
when you said [spooky voice], “It was twenty years ago to the day!” that it
sounded like the beginning of a spooky story. But it’s actually... the
beginning of a much more varied and lush story than that. It is spooky at
times –
Kristin:​ Wow, do you have your poet hat on today?
Jenny: ​I do! I always wear my poet hat, you know this, we live together!


Kristin:​ That’s true.
Jenny:​ It’s never on the hat hook!
Kristin:​ Always with that baseball cap on that just says “Poet” across the
front.
Jenny:​ Uh-huh, yeah. So, what does ​Buffy​ mean to us?
Kristin:​ Wow. Well, you first came to ​Buffy the Vampire Slayer​. Between the
two of us, not first in the universe, although, who knows? You could’ve been
up there at the front of the line.
Jenny:​ Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin:​ But you were there first, and you brought me in! So tell us about
how you got there.
Jenny:​ Well, I can remember going to the video rental store in my town. It
was not a Blockbuster or a Hollywood Video, it was like...
Kristin:​ Ooh, mine was Carner Video.
Jenny:​ Ooh. I can’t remember the name of mine, and I’m so bummed.
Kristin:​ Sacrilegious.
Jenny:​ I should’ve called my mom before we started taping. But I walked
around the aisles and saw this movie called ​Buffy the Vampire Slayer, ​and,
you know – I don’t know, what was I, eight or ten or something, and I was
like, “Ba ha ha ha ha!”
Kristin:​ When did it – did it come out in 1990?
Jenny:​ ‘92.
Kristin:​ ‘92.
Jenny:​ Oh, so I guess I was – yeah, like eleven.


Kristin:​ Yeah, you were eleven.
Jenny:​ By the time it got to video, maybe I was twelve… okay. [Kristin
laughs] This is not the point. The point is that I saw this video. The name
just, like, tickled me to death, and I was like, “We have to rent this,” and we
took it home and watched it, and I was like, “What a fun romp! That was a
delightful tale of vampires and cheerleaders and mmm! So many delicious
stereotypes. And then so many delicious subvertings of those stereoty –
great. Great, great, great, great, great, great, great.” Okay. Then, years
went by, and then the show came out. And I watched the first episode when
it aired and –
Kristin:​ You watched Season 1, Episode 1 on March 10th, 1997.
Jenny:​ Yeah! [spooky voice] Twenty years ago to the day!
Kristin:​ So, like, that makes me feel really cool. Being in the room with you.
Jenny:​ Thank you!
Kristin:​ I mean, I might’ve watched it myself. I don’t have a memory of
watching it but, you know, there were, like, three channels for us, when –
[laughs]
Jenny:​ Right, there was so little TV to choose from! The odds are pretty
good that you watched it.
Kristin:​ Right? What else would I have been doing? Maybe I was talking on
the phone.
Jenny:​ [laughs] Maybe, curling your phone cord around your wrist…
Kristin:​ Was that a gateway to Joss Whedon for you? Was ​Buffy ​your Joss
Whedon doorway?
Jenny: ​Yeah, I mean, I think it’s – I feel like it’s the most worthwhile.
Kristin:​ Wow. Wow. Wow. What a statement.


Jenny:​ I mean, I don’t think it’s ​that ​much of a statement! I think it’s the
most sensical – like, I think it’s his masterpiece. I think ​Angel​’s great, I think
Firefly​ is great.
Kristin:​ I just think you’re gonna get a lot of feedback, is all I’m saying.
Jenny: ​I mean… people can talk, that’s fine! But my opinion is that it is the
best thing that he’s done. I can’t believe I’m saying this out loud. But I’m
making a podcast about the show, of course I think it’s the best thing he’s
done, God! I would be doing a podcast about something else that he made if
I thought that was the best thing! This is my favorite thing.
Kristin:​ Well, you were my gateway to ​Buffy the Vampire Slayer​. ​Buffy the
Vampire Slayer​ –
Jenny:​ That’s not usually how that sentence ends!
Kristin:​ [laughs] You were my gateway to the television series, not the
movie. I had a very, very sordid love affair with the movie when the movie
was out.
Jenny:​ Sordid, you say.
Kristin:​ “Sordid” – I don’t know why I said it, I just wanted to make it
sound intense.
Jenny:​ Ha!
Kristin:​ But, yeah, I loved the movie, knowing nothing else. I didn’t really
know where the character had come from, I didn’t know about Joss Whedon.
All I knew was, like, Luke Perry was in a movie. ‘Cause Luke Perry was a
hotshot.
Jenny:​ Oh, yeah! Mm hmm. Mm hmm.
Kristin:​ Big time deal in 1992? That was like peak – fucking peak Luke
Perry.


Jenny:​ Hell, yeah.
Kristin:​ So I watched the movie, and then the show came out, and, of
course, I knew the characters. You know, I knew who Willow was in the 90s,
I knew who Xander was in the 90s, of course I knew Buffy and Cordelia. But
I didn’t follow the show, I didn’t follow the storyline. And then we got
together, and you were like, “Here’s! The! Thing! You have to watch this
show,” and I was like, ugh, God, I don’t watch shows like this. Who was I?
Who was I back in 2009?
Jenny:​ You didn’t know! You didn’t know! How could you know?
Kristin:​ I didn’t know! Like we said in our –
Jenny:​ ‘Cause there is no show like this, that’s the thing! There is no
precedent by which you could measure this show without seeing it.
Kristin:​ True! And like we said in our very first episode, there are two kinds
of people, right? There’re the people who love ​Buffy​, and there are the
people who will not allow themselves to love ​Buffy​.
Jenny:​ Pity the poor people.
Kristin:​ And I was in camp two, back in 2009 –
Jenny:​ Yeah you were.
Kristin:​ And then we started our watch, and I was still in camp two, did not
like Season 1, didn’t get through it. And then Jenny pulled a covert move,
said, “Alright, let’s start with Season 2,” and then forget it. And then my life
was forever changed. Literally!
Jenny:​ Now here we are.
Kristin:​ More changed than I could’ve even known at the time. But what I
wanna talk about, before we get to the song version of what this show
means to us and has meant to us, I wanna just talk for a moment about
what the show means to us. What it meant to you then, and what it means
to you now.


Jenny:​ Well, I think seeing the whole show is very powerful. I mean, I
dunno, it’s interesting, because I feel like I’m in the minority in feeling like
the actual, overt queerness that’s on the show didn’t have the biggest
impact on me. Like, I’m really glad it’s there, but the show felt so queer
before there was any actual queerness on it. Like, there’s so much focus –
very similar to sort of the X-Men “otherness” vibe.
Kristin:​ I think that, I mean – you know, “queer,” when you’re saying
“queer,” that word means a lot of things, and I think that there is a queering
that happens with the character of Buffy. The character of Buffy kind of
queers the stereotype of the female character, right?
Jenny:​ Mm, mm-hmm.
Kristin:​ I know that we typically hear the word “queer” and use the word
“queer” commonly to mean, you know, relating to sexuality, relating to
gender identity, relating to these things about how we interact with the
world. But I actually love the word “queer,” because I think it talks about
how we take something that the world expects and we flip it on it’s head.
You know, and it’s like, more of a verb. And so I think what you’re saying
makes a lot of sense, that this show ​is ​queer in a ​lot ​of ways that is not just
the overt queerness that we may see going down the line.
Jenny:​ Right.
Kristin:​ But yeah, and that’s not – that is not why the show impacted me,
either. I mean, that was a piece of it, of course. But it was really this idea of
getting kicked, falling down, and standing back up again. Getting kicked,
falling down, and standing back up again –
Jenny:​ Hell, yeah.
Kristin:​ That spoke to me, and that speaks to me. I think that, as a woman,
we don’t get to see – I mean, more and more, we do. We’re seeing more
strong characters, more nuanced characters, more complex characters. But
in the 90s, that was a really developing thing. And as a teenager especially,
you know, wanting to kick a lot of ass, and being full of energy and
creativity, and especially, you know, for both of us. I did theater, you were


doing music. We were both creative teenagers with a lot to say and a lot to,
like, express. And I think a lot of teenagers are in similar spots where
there’s ​so much​ happening then. So to look at the television set for you, as
a teenager, and to see this character doing those things – and not just
Buffy, right? I mean, you know, you all listen to this podcast, I think. So you
know that we talk about the other characters a ton.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ That there’s so many complex characters that let you see so many
ways of being a person, so many ways of being a woman, so many ways of
being a fighter that I think is so powerful.
Jenny:​ And now the show has, you know, this whole added dimension of
meaning for us, because we’re coming together with you guys every week to
discuss it in detail, and then to craft, you know, a piece of art based on it.
Kristin:​ [happily] Ugh!
Jenny:​ And, you know, we get to read your emails and see your tweets.
Kristin:​ It’s so incredible. You and I talked about this a little bit a couple of
days ago, where, you know, I was talking about when you create something
artistically that is so powerful that it not only lasts forever in the minds and
the hearts of millions. But that it inspires other people to create art on top of
that art, or art from within that art. There’s something so powerful about
that. That’s why I sighed heavily as you were saying – and we’re creating
songs about this. Because it’s not to, like, pat ourselves on the back, like,
“Oh, we make such great songs!” It’s just – it means ​so much​ to me, I can’t
explain.
Every time I think about the fact that we are going to get through Season 7
and have seven volumes of music inspired by this brilliant, groundbreaking,
life-changing series, I get the chills, I really do. I think it’s just – I couldn’t
imagine, you know, creating something and knowing that people – ‘cause
we’re not – you know, we’re one of thousands of people that continue to
create art based on the series. Whether it’s visual art or music or written
pieces or – you know, there’s just so much that comes out of that. And
that’s just so powerful.


Jenny:​ It’s really amazing.
Kristin:​ It’s like when one slayer dies, another slayer is born?
Jenny:​ Oh my God!
Kristin:​ It is, though, you know? We know this mythology, that there will be
a slayer forever. And I feel that way about this in a meta way, you know?
That the series is over, but there are, like, billions of fucking slayers that
have been created by this series and that slay in all these different ways.
And it’s so cool, and the series, you know, if you’ve been listening to the
podcast, that rehashing, recapping the series right now in 2017 has extra
weight to it. Because we find ourselves in a country, and in a world, where
we’re fighting a Big Bad very, very overtly. You know? We’re seeing horrible
things happen in our country and in our world, and we are fighting actively
against that. And we’re feeling what it feels like to sometimes fight and not
win and fall really hard. And so to be able to rewatch this series with all of
you as we go through that, like, c’mon! This is the coolest shit ever. This is
my favorite thing. I think this is my favorite thing I’ve ever done.
Jenny:​ It’s like the biggest slumber party I’ve ever had. [Kristin laughs] No,
it’s like the second biggest slumber party I’ve ever had.
Kristin:​ What was – wait, what was the – ?
Jenny:​ No, I’m just building a mythology about my previous slumber
parties.
Kristin:​ Right, right, yes, yes. You’ve had a slumber party that lasted more
than four years? [laughs]
Jenny:​ Yeah, yeah! With more than – you know, however many people are
listening.
Kristin:​ More than 20,000 – yeah. It’s just so special, and, not to put too
fine a point on it, but we’re both so incredibly moved to be able to be doing
this together with all of you, and to be hearing from all of you. My favorite
thing in the world is sitting down with our email inbox and reading the


emails that you send, and the love that you send us, and the facts that you
send us, and the – you know, just cool shit. All of it is great. I feel like we
just made so many new friends.
Jenny:​ Seriously.
Kristin:​ All because of ​Buffy​.
Jenny:​ Thanks for being with us.
Kristin:​ Yes. Thank you all, and thank you, of course, to Joss Whedon, and
to the entire cast and crew, and all of the writers, everyone who worked on
this series. Thank you for giving us something that holds us up ​still​, 20 years
later, and I am 1000% positive that in 50 years, this series will still be
holding us up, and that is incredible. So thank you all. Happy anniversary to
all of you. And with that, we have a song.
[Jenny Owen Youngs performs “Demons to Fight”]
Crushing just how heavy things can get
A thousand albatrosses round my neck
Feeling like I’m the only, only
One who’s down on the floor
But I don’t have to be lonely, lonely
‘Neath the weight of the world, ‘cause
I see you
And you see me, too
It pulls me through
To watch you do what you do
‘Cause you’ve got demons to fight
Wrong against right
For the rest of your life
And I’ll have battles to win
Without and within
For as long as I’m in this skin


I hear a lot about what I should be
It’s weird that no one thought of asking me
Got me feeling like I’m the only, only
One who’s different inside
How could anyone know me, know me?
They don’t get what it’s like, but
I see you
You shine right through
In all you do
You show me how, show me how
Now I’ve got demons to fight
Wrong against right
For the rest of my life
You have battles to win
Without and within
For as long as you live
La da da da
La da, la da
La da da da
La da da
La da da da
La da, la da
La da da da
La da da
We’ve got demons to fight
Wrong against right
For the rest of our lives
We’ll have battles to win
Without and within
For as long as we live
Kristin:​ That song that you just heard is available for free, for everyone,
forever, and you can get it by going to bufferingthevampireslayer.com. It’s


the first post you’ll see, you can click on it, you can listen to it, you can
download it, you can put it on your device, you can listen to it forever. We
hope it brings you joy. And hey, if you know anyone from ​Buffy the Vampire
Slayer​, maybe they wrote on the show, maybe they acted on the show,
maybe they just love the show as much as you do, will you do us a favor
and tweet at them or write on their Facebook wall or share in any way you
know how to let them know that this exists. We would like for them to know
that we love them, we care about them, and we made this for them.
But we also made it for all of you. And we wanna let you know that we are
gathering at 5:00PM Pacific Time, 8:00PM Eastern today on our Facebook
page, facebook.com/bufferingcast, to watch Season 1 Episode 1, “Welcome
to the Hellmouth” to celebrate the anniversary. We also are sure that some
fun things are going to happen today that have not happened yet at this
hour, and so, you know, you can always follow us on Twitter or on Facebook
@bufferingcast to get our opinions and takes on anything that we may see.
We have heard rumors and seen things that we’re gonna at least get some
kind of a photoshoot, so we’ll be all over that.
Jenny:​ Mm hmm.
Kristin:​ But please do join us later on. March 10th, Friday, 8:00PM Eastern,
5:00PM Pacific, facebook.com/bufferingcast, we will watch the episode
together with you.
Jenny:​ Absolutely. Til next time:
Jenny and Kristin:​ AWOO!
Jenny: ​[whispers] Happy birthday!

