Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 3.08: Lover’s Walk
Jenny: ​Hey everybody! We’re really distracted right now because our cat’s
running around in the basement, eating spiders willy-nilly.
Kristin: ​[laughs] She’s just a spider slayer, you know?
Jenny: ​Truly.
Kristin: ​Keeping the basement safe.
Jenny: ​In the truest sense of the word. We have an amazing episode for
you today. Our friend and yours, Joanna Robinson, is back. You may know
her from ​Storm of Spoilers​, you may know her from ​A Cast of Kings​, you
may know her from ​Decoding Westworld, ​or ​Gen Pop, ​or ​Little Gold Men, ​or
vanityfair.com.
Kristin: ​[laughs] She’s everywhere!
Jenny: ​She’s everywhere, she’s everything, and today, she’s here.
Kristin: ​Ugh, so exciting!
Jenny: ​But before we get into the episode, we just have a couple quick
announcements.
Kristin: ​Yes, we do. As you know, probably by now, we sell five handwritten
lyric sheets every month, the proceeds of which go to a different charity, or
organization every month as well. And this month, we just have three of the
five left, we wanna just give you a heads-up. They are up for sale and all of
the proceeds this month are going to the Southern Poverty Law Center. You
probably know what they do, but I’m gonna tell you anyway. The Southern
Poverty Law Center is dedicated to fighting hate and bigotry, and to seeking
justice for the most vulnerable members of our society. Using litigation,
education, and other forms of advocacy, they work toward the day when the
ideals of equal justice and equal opportunity will be reality. Pretty important
time to be funding organizations like Southern Poverty Law Center.


Jenny: ​Mm-hm.
Kristin​: Also, pretty important time to scoop up a handwritten lyric sheet, if
you wanna give it to somebody for the holidays! ‘Cause they’re gonna go,
and they’re gonna go quick.
Jenny: ​What a lovely gift.
Kristin:​ [sale-pitch voice] So you better act now!
Jenny:​ Wow.
Kristin:​ Did you like my sale voice?
Jenny: ​That was great.
Kristin: ​Actually, speaking of sales, the other thing we wanna let you know,
is that in our store the “Werewolf-Misogyny” T-shirt— “Even a Werewolf is
Better Than Misogyny” is what it says specifically— and the maroon “Just
Keep Fighting” T-shirt, are both on sale. When those T-shirts are gone,
they’re not coming back, so if those are on your list of things you want or
you want for someone else, scoop them up. They’re on sale, and they won’t
be coming back for the foreseeable future. So get on it!
Jenny:​ And now, onto the show!
Kristin: ​Woo!
[Theme Song]
Jenny: ​Hello, and welcome to ​Buffering the Vampire Slayer​! A podcast
where we are watching and discussing every episode of ​Buffy the Vampire
Slayer​, one at a time. I am Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: ​And I— [laughs] You said your name ​so ​carefully! [imitates Jenny] I
am Jenny. Owen. Youngs.
Jenny: ​Just really trying to get that “s” in the right place. [laughter]


Kristin: ​And I am Kristin Russo, and this week we are talking about Season
3, Episode 8, “Lover’s Walk”. Stay tuned to the end of this podcast every
week for an original song written by us, recapping the ​Buffy ​episode we are
discussing.
Jenny: ​“Lover’s Walk” was written by Dan Vebber and directed by David
Semel, and it aired originally on November 24th 1998, just two days after I
turned 17.
Kristin: ​Wow, and probably right around Thanksgiving.
Jenny:​ Probably.
Kristin: ​This is the one, according to IMDB, where Spike returns to
Sunnydale and kidnaps Willow, in hopes of creating a magic spell that will
make Drusilla love him again. Good job, IMDB. Good one this week.
Jenny: ​Nailed it! This is also the one where Joanna Robinson is ​back​!
Kristin: ​Yes!
Joanna: ​Wooo!
Jenny: ​Hello... Joanna Robinson.
Kristin: ​[laughs] We heard you gig— we heard a giggle. We heard a
mysterious giggle.
Joanna: ​I couldn’t contain myself. ​[laughter]
Jenny: ​Thank you so much for taking time out from making 75 other
podcasts, all the time, nonstop, to talk to us.
Kristin: ​Yeah, when we called Joanna today, she was like, “Oh, I’ll be right
with you.” And then when we got on the call, she was like, “I’m so sorry,
somebody just dialed me into a podcast real quick, just— surprise, a
surprise dial-in.” [Joanna laughs] I picture that being your life all the time.
You’re just, like, always on a podcast accidentally.


Jenny: ​Oh, yeah. Like, what’s a Navy SEAL who’s like the extreme secrete
Navy SEAL, who, like... the black ops?
Kristin:​ [laughing] All of the Navy SEALs are—
Jenny:​ Like, that’s what you are in the world of podcasting. Just like, “Oh
you need it done? You need it done now, you need it done right? You need it
done in the dark of night?” [laughter] Get Joanna Robinson!
Kristin:​ Call Joanna Robinson.
Joanna: ​Oh, you guys.
Kristin: ​So, how’s it going, Joanna?
Joanna: ​I’m so delighted to be here. Oh my god, you guys. I obviously
remembered this episode of ​Buffy the Vampire Slayer​. I had some bullet
points in my head of like, “Yeah, this is a good episode, good, I’m glad I’m
on this one.” Then I watched and I was like, “Oh my god, no, I ​loved ​this
episode! This is great.” [laughter]
Jenny: ​Because, like, you’re really into the SATs? Is that your main
enthusiasm?
Joanna: ​You guys... I care a lot about the SATs. [laughs]
Kristin: ​Did you care about the SATs when you were in high school? Was it
a thing for you or did you not care?
Joanna: ​I was a very bad student, but I was sort of like... I’m a little like
Cordelia, in that like I do test well, but I don’t like to try. No, Cordelia
probably tries. [Kristin laughs] Anyway, point being: I got a similar score to
Buffy, but let me tell you this right now, let me explode some myths of this
episode. You cannot float right into the best college in the country on SAT
scores alone, I hate to tell you that. Not even in 1998. [laughter]
Kristin: ​Well, but with her collection of, you know, slaying, she does a lot of
extra curricular activities, also.


Joanna: ​With all of her absences and then her inability to get a letter of
recommendation from a single teacher who knows her name? Yeah, no.
Jenny: ​And that one time she burned down the fucking gym?
Kristin: ​Yeah, and also fled because she was under suspect for murder?
[laughter] She is definitely getting into all of the colleges.
Joanna: ​Yeah. She’s not going to Brown, and she is not going to Carnegie
Mellon. I hate to break it to Joyce, so yeah. [laughter] The other sad thing,
we were— before we started talking about ​Buffy​, we were talking about
other relics of the 90s off-air. But another relic of the 90s is that we can no
longer now sort of smugly or sheepishly compare SAT scores to people
younger than us ‘cause they’ve got a different system, now.
Kristin: ​Yes!
Joanna: ​So when you’re like— you know, when Buffy’s like, “I got a 1430,”
I’m sure there are some of your listeners who are watching it like, “Um, girl,
what?” [laughter]
Kristin:​ Right? Because now it’s like double that is the top score, right?
Joanna: ​Yeah, exactly. It’s something crazy, so yeah.
Kristin:​ I felt very upset about that, though. Like my score would never be
understood by anyone except for, like, my generation and earlier.
Joanna: ​I know, I can’t wow the teens with my SAT score? Like, what am I
even doing on this planet? [laughter]​ ​But for any teens who are watching
and still confused, it was out of 1600. So 1430 out of 1600 is pretty good,
Buffy.
Kristin:​ We had one student in my class who got a 1600 on the SATs.
Joanna: ​Wow. I think I got a— I’m sorry, is this gross? I think I got a
perfect verbal and then like an okay math.
Kristin:​ [gasps] Wow!


Jenny:​ That was ​so ​gross. [laughter] I can’t believe you said that. I have to
go throw up and then we can continue.
Kristin: ​Willow is somewhere crying hearing this news, Joanna. [laughs] So
Cordy, of course, many-layered Cordy, does well, and Willow does well,
doesn’t think she does. Buffy does well. We don’t find out about Oz, right?
‘Cause is he even taking—? No, ‘cause he’s like, left— he’s a hangover
from— he doesn’t take the SATs again, right?
Jenny: ​Who knows?
Joanna: ​I don’t know what happens when you flunk and don’t do summer
school, and just stick around for plot reasons. I don’t know what happens to
your SAT scores. [laughter]
Kristin: ​But Cordelia— so, a moment that I love that happens in this
opening scene, besides learning everybody’s test-taking ability scores, is
Cordelia, like, looking to Xander and silently mouthing the word “no”—
Jenny: ​[laughs] She does ​not ​want to double date.
Kristin: ​— when they wanna go on this double date. It’s my favorite. She’s
like “no”— I feel like I have moments like that with Jenny, and Jenny never
pays attention or picks up on my messages.
Jenny:​ Accurate.
Kristin: ​Jenny’s, like, literally Mr. Peanutbutter, just like, “Yeah! Whatever
anyone wants to do forever!” And I’m like, “Stooooop!”
Joanna: ​You guys don’t— do you guys have one of those gestures at a
party, like, “I wanna go,” like tug the earlobe or anything like that? No?
Kristin:​ We don’t.
Jenny: ​Sometimes we set one up before we go to a party and then by the
time we’ve been at the party for half an hour, I no longer remember what it


was, that we ever had one, that I have a wife, that I don’t live wherever this
party is.
Kristin: ​Like, Jenny is the kind of wife where it’ll be like, “Okay, Jenny, I will
hop on one foot when I’m ready to leave the party.” And then I will hop on
one foot and she’ll be like— in front of everybody— “Kristin, why are you
hopping on one foot?” You know?
Joanna: ​Amazing.
Kristin: ​So it just doesn’t work out for us.
Joanna: ​So we should never do anything like a heist with Jenny, is what
you’re saying.
Jenny: ​Probably no heist.
Kristin: ​[laughs] No, no, do not. Uh-uh.
Joanna: ​The other thing that happens in this scene, like right at the top of
this episode, is Willow... Willow makes a— or no, it’s Xander who makes a
Cletus the Slack-Jawed Yokel joke, right? Which is a ​Simpsons ​reference,
like a classic 90s ​Simpsons ​reference.
Jenny: ​Ohhh yeah.
Kristin: ​Ohhh, I missed— thank goodness you’re here.
Joanna: ​I was deep into ​The Simpsons ​in this era. I’m not— I’m by no
means a ​Simpsons ​scholar, but this was a good ​Simpsons ​time, you know?
Kristin: ​That’s great, yeah. When did ​The Simpsons​ start?
Joanna: ​[nerdy voice] Uh, well, technically— [laughter]
Kristin: ​You’re like, I’m not a scholar, but...
Joanna: ​Well, technically, it did start as, like, animated shorts on ​The
Tracey Ullman Show​ in the 80s before it became like its own thing.


Kristin:​ Oh, wow.
Joanna: ​But can you— like, isn’t it crazy that we’re talking about— speaking
of relics of the 90s— we’re talking about this beautiful jewel box relic of the
90s that is this episode, and ​The Simpsons​ is still on the air? [laughs]
Kristin: ​Yeah! Forever! Ever! It’s like 100,000 seasons— is, I think, about
where we are at, right?
Joanna: ​Yeah, conservatively, yes. [laughter]
Kristin: ​I wanna also give a shout out to Buffy wearing baby blue, because
we don’t have Kate on this episode. And so, in honor of Kate, I would like to
say, Kate, we see you, we know you’re appreciating baby blue on Buffy
here. [laughs]
Joanna: ​That’s incredible, ‘cause I definitely watched this episode going,
“What is Kate gonna talk about?”
Kristin: ​I know. Some good skirts.
Joanna: ​I have notes. [laughter]
Kristin: ​Good, good, good, good, good. Yeah, we can pick up the Kate slack
with some minor observations on fashion. Probably no extensive discussions
on [French pronunciation] boutonnières.
Jenny: ​Nice.
Kristin: ​Thank you. [laughter]
Joanna: ​Pronunciation and everything! Can I— can I surprise you guys with
something that I would like to— an award that I would like to add to this
episode? [laughs]
Jenny: ​What?!
Kristin: ​Please! Please, surprise us, yes.


Joanna: ​Feel free to edit this out if you disagree. This episode has the
craziest transitions between scenes, that I don’t remember as being
characteristic of ​Buffy,​ necessarily. So, I wanna chalk this up to Dan
Vebber— which sounds like Dan Webber like the way a vampire would say
it— [laughter] but, um, the writer of this episode, Dan Vebber, who wrote
this episode and “The Zeppo” and that’s the only ​Buffy ​episodes he’s ever
written. But he has these— okay, so we’re about to get one, right? Where
Cordelia says, “What kind of moron would ever wanna come back here?” and
then smash-cut right to a moron coming back to Sunnydale. [laughter]
There’s a bunch of them in this episode. So I propose a Sexual Transition
Award—
Kristin: ​Oooh!
Jenny: ​Wow!
Joanna: ​— for this episode of ​Buffering.
Kristin: ​Wow. Wow! Jenny, pressure’s on. Are you gonna have a Sexual
Transition Award jingle?
Jenny: ​I’m prepared to commit to this thrilling new venture. [laughter]
Kristin: ​Wow, I love it. Yes, I’m in.
Jenny: ​And it is a fantastic transition.
Kristin: ​Yeah, we did have— we had an episode ​way ​back when we talked
about— it wasn’t a transition as much as it was a pan down through a doily?
And we got, like, really—
Jenny: ​Ah, yes. Pan down through a doily.
Joanna: ​Amazing. [laughs]
Kristin: ​Yeah, the doily pan down. But also, Joanna, don’t think I don’t
appreciate your saying “smash-cut,” when it is quite literally a smash-cut
into Spike.


Jenny: ​Wow.
Kristin: ​I mean, it’s like a double smash-cut, you know?
Jenny: ​[high-pitched voice] Kristin!
Kristin:​ I’m just saying.
Jenny:​ Great.
Joanna: ​Yeah, and oh, you’re right. It is— well, fancy that, it’s Spike. You
have Joanna Robinson on an episode to talk about... Spike.
Jenny: ​It’s weird how it just timed out like this.
Kristin: ​I know, yeah.
Joanna: ​Coincidence.
Kristin: ​One chance in the whole season and here you are.
[Jenny performing the Spike Jingle]
Spike! I love you
Spike! So dreamy
Spike! Your trenchcoat
Spike! I love you
Spike! Your black nails
Spike! Peroxide
Jenny: ​The Jaime Lannister of Sunnydale. Rolling back into town.
Kristin:​ Joanna’s favorite character and mine. Spike, really not making a
case for himself in this episode!
Joanna: ​He’s got ups and downs, ups and down in this episode, our Spike.
Kristin: ​Yeah, he does. High highs—


Joanna: ​Some major downs, but some ups, too, so it’s okay.
Kristin: ​[laughs] Yeah, this is the drunk, sad Spike. Very different from the
first time that Spike crashed through the sign, and the sort of like, the
badass with a cigarette, super cocky, super full of himself. Now he’s just a
pile of mess.
Joanna: ​Falling out of his car. Kristin, I seem to recall— were you the one
who had a bunch of stuff in your car as a teenager?
Kristin: ​Yes, I did. I was a disaster, my car was a disaster.
Jenny:​ Ugh!
Joanna: ​Did it resemble the backseat of Spike’s car? [laughs]
Kristin: ​Yes! Yes! It did. I didn’t even make that connection for myself, but
yes. There was never any food, like I wouldn’t leave like rotting food in my
car. But other than that, yeah, bottles, cans, cigarette packs.
Joanna: ​Amazing.
Kristin: ​I probably didn’t have like an open bottle of bourbon or whatever
he’s drinking in the back of his seat. [laughter] But other than that, yes, this
was what my car looked like. I think my parents wished I had painted the
windows black, so they didn’t—
Joanna: ​I was about to say, you ​probably ​didn’t paint the windows black.
[laughter]
Kristin: ​I didn’t, but if I had my mom would have been a lot less upset with
me. Every time she walked by my car she was like, “Why? ​Why​?”
Joanna: ​So I know that Kristin and I have a special problematic place in our
heart for Spike, but I don’t know that I know, Jenny, what your temperature
on Spike is.


Jenny:​ You guys, it’s Season 3, Episode 8. What at this point is there not to
love about Spike? [Kristin laughs]
Joanna: ​Excellent. [laughs] Alright, fair enough.
Kristin: ​[laughs] Wow, very cautiously walking into the Spike arena, Jenny
Owen Youngs.
Joanna: ​Fair enough. Well played.
Jenny: ​I mean, look at him go. He is pretty ideal.
Kristin: ​We see, like, the full range of drunk, sad Spike emotions too in the
very first moment with him in the factory. Is that where he is? The factory?
No, he’s in the mansion at first?
Joanna: ​I think he is in the factory. It’s got all the, like— those high-back
chair that they had... those were in the factory, right?
Jenny: ​See, this is confusing ‘cause I thought all the dolls got moved to
Vamp Mansion. But maybe some of the dolls got left behind.
Kristin: ​That’s what I thought, but I think the burned dolls stayed behind—
because I got confused. I was— the whole episode, I was thinking, where in
the mansion is Spike that Angel doesn’t know he’s there?
Jenny: ​Right?!
Kristin: ​And then by the end they start saying “the factory” and I was like,
oh, okay, it’s two different places. But anyhow, the factory, where the
burned dolls are, he’s like— he picks up the doll, he’s like “Why did you
leave me?” right? And then he turns— a really angry vamp face occurs and
he smashes the doll on the ground. And I feel like that’s like the general arc
of Spike. He takes a lot of small versions of that through the episode, and
then one large version of that through the episode.
Jenny: ​Sobbing, screaming, sobbing, screaming.
Kristin: ​Just heartbreak!


Joanna: ​A little bit of Frank Sinatra by way of the Sex Pistols.
Kristin: ​Yes. Yes, yes, yes, yes.
Joanna: ​Yeah, I think James Marsters does some good drunk acting in this
episode. What’s funny— so I have become a pretty— insufferably intolerant
of bad accents, now in my adult life. [laughter] But as a teen, I was ​all in​ on
Spike. The accent’s not great or consistent. But I have such, like, nostalgic
affection for it. So— but when you add, like, a drunken slur to his already
quasi-consistent Cockney accent? It’s a lot, it’s a lot happening. Like
vowel-wise in this episode. [laughter]
Kristin: ​Yeah, there is a moment where I tried to write down what he said.
It’s like, at some point when he’s standing outside of the mansion. Oh yeah,
he just— [laughing] he’s like leaning outside of the mansion, and he just
says like, “Ya, you” and then trip— it’s like right before he trips. [laughter]
And it is, for sure, Joanna, exactly as you said. It’s like, all confusing vowel
sounds.
Joanna: ​He’s like, how about I do ​all ​the vowels here? Why not? [laughter]
Why not? Let’s do it.
Kristin: ​So— so back for a second— let’s leave Spike for a second, ‘cause
we’re gonna talk about him for the whole episode. Back to this quartet,
because some serious shit is laid down in the next scene, right?
Jenny: ​Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. It’s time to, like, really prepare everyone
for the knife twist that is yet to come, by really just, like, hammering it
home like, oh, Cordelia has finally put up pictures of Xander in her locker
against even her own better judgement and Oz got Willow such a nice little
witch PEZ container.
Kristin: ​Oh my god. Yeah. And by the way, we looked up if there was a
werewolf PEZ dispenser and there is, a 1960s vintage wolf-man werewolf. So
Oz didn’t look hard enough, he could have found one for himself.
Joanna: ​Yeah, Willow should have hit that, you know, Ebay situation up
hard, you know. [laughter] But guys, I— like, as much as I love Spike, the


last episode I was on, I talked a lot about my love for Oz. And as much as
I— as much as Spike is my problematic fave, Oz is just like my gem of a
pearl of a human fave, right? Obviously. This scene where he gives her the
PEZ dispenser? Every— I know, I know the whole point is for them to build
up, just to twist that knife. Of course, of course that’s what this is here for.
But like, she’s like, “What’s the occasion?” He says “Pretty much you are.”
Jenny: ​Ugh!
Joanna: ​[laughs] And then she goes, “It’s just so thoughtful,” and he says,
“Well, I think about you.” And she says, “I don’t have anything to give you,”
and he says, “Yeah, you do.” And he doesn’t even, like, kiss her there or
anything like that? He just goes, “Yeah, you do” and walks away. And you’re
just like oh. My. Goodness. Where can I find one? [laughter]
Kristin: ​Such a good boyfriend, such a good boyfriend. Also I feel like, since
this episode aired in November— this is not to say that Oz is any less of a
boyfriend, I just feel like he also knows how to get a good deal. He waited
for the Halloween sales.
Joanna: ​Ohhh! [laughs]
Jenny:​ Wow.
Kristin: ​[laughing] I’m just saying, like, ‘tis the season. I noticed, I was like,
wait, it’s November, so. [laughter] Also, Giles got invited to a retreat,
everybody! Does— we don’t—
Jenny: ​Finally!
Kristin: ​Do we even— we don’t, like, learn anything about it.
Jenny: ​Do we even know if it’s a ​watchers’ ​retreat? He just said, like,
there’s a lot of druidic activity in this particular clearing nearby.
Joanna: ​Do you think he’s going by himself to—
Jenny: ​No, no, he’s meeting up with people, but I get the sense they’re
from the, like, druidic activity chat-room in Sunnydale?


Kristin: ​Oh no, Jenny, that’s so sad!
Jenny: ​No, I mean, he’s finding his own... friends.
Joanna:​ Maybe he’s, like, looking for other techno-pagans.
Jenny: ​[laughs loudly] Blegh! Blegh!
Joanna: ​Too soon? Way too soon.
Kristin: ​No, no, no. Giles is ready.
Jenny: ​Wow. He’s got a type! And they’re probably also interested in druidic
activities.
Kristin: ​Wow! Okay.
Joanna:​ I call this retreat: “We need to conveniently get Giles out of town”
retreat, right? Like, that’s what this retreat is.
Kristin:​ Yeah, for sure. Giles had like a wedding— or not Giles— Anthony
Stewart Head had, like, a wedding to got to and they were like, “Mmm,
druidic activity retreat, great one, guys.”
Joanna: ​Or they just wanted to do like, “teen hormones run amok amok
amok” and like the watcher doesn’t belong there, you know? So, I don’t
know. But yeah. Yes, he’s got a camp stove and everything, I believe.
[laughter]
Kristin: ​A camp stove! And speaking of 90s relics, before we leave this
scene— ‘cause Buffy and Giles are having a conversation about college and—
we have another 90s relic, well, what I consider a 90s relic, which is Buffy
saying, “be kind, rewind”?
Joanna: ​Yes!


Jenny: ​Oh, yeah! So for all of you young people. “Be kind, rewind” is a
phrase that was usually on a sticker that would be on the case or actual tape
of a VHS, that you would rent from a video store—
Joanna: ​What’s that? Wait, what’s that? [Kristin laughs]
Jenny: ​So, a VHS is a great big rectangle with a movie on it. And so, it’s—
like a computer? No, not like a computer. Just like a big hunk of plastic with
some tape inside of it—
Kristin: ​Yeah, yeah, like a large cassette tape. You might know that from
the new—
Jenny​: No, no, no.
Kristin​: —resurgence of cassette tapes.
Jenny​: Yeah, yeah, yeah. [crosstalk]
Joanna: ​You’ve seen ​13 Reasons Why,​ children, you know what a cassette
tape is. [laughters]
Kristin​: But I always thought that that was such a great— like do we
know— does anyone know who invented it? Who’s the guy that put the first
sticker on it and never got any credit... I’m sorry. Who’s the ​person​. “Who’s
the guy,” who am I? Get out of here, Kristin! you know?
Jenny​: Just another cog in the gigantic machine of the patriarchy, Kristin,
that’s who you are. [Joanna laughs]
Kristin​: Let’s play it, Jenny.
[The Patriarchy Jingle]
The Patriarchy!
Mwhahahahaha
Joanna​: Hurray!


Kristin​: Hooray. Okay so, beautiful jingle. I just wanna— okay, so Joanna,
you were there in San Francisco when Jenny was gifted— well, when ​we
were gifted, but when Jenny was actually physically gifted with this bat,
right?
Joanna​: Yes. Oh my god.
Jenny:​ Oh my god.
Kristin​: With the patriarchy bat? So, we put it on social media but I just feel
like, we’ve played the jingle. So two of our listeners in San Francisco made—
took a bat that probably said like “Happy Halloween!” and they undid the
back of the bat, they opened it up, they put a new recorder in it, that had
our jingle in it, so now when you squeeze the bat’s foot it just does the
Patriarchy Jingle.
Jenny​: It’s unbelievable.
Kristin​: It’s unbelievable!
Joanna​: Those lovely humans. They were so charming. They were so
charming, they were so bashfully happy to give you that bat and, you know,
Jenny, at first was like “oh, a stuffed bat, how nice.” And then it—
Jenny​: Of course.
Joanna​: And then your voice came out of it! And it was amazing! [laughter]
Kristin​: Thank god you did not play it while I was driving the car from the
airport ‘cause I could have crashed it. I was ​so ​surprised, I’ve never been
more surprised in my life.
Jenny​: Perhaps the key to gift giving when it comes to me, is just whatever
it is, make sure my voice is inside of it.
Kristin​: Oh my god. You just set yourself a trap for life. We’re gonna have a
room full of things that just say your voice now.
Joanna​: So when I get you like a witch PEZ, when you open its jaw—


Jenny:​ It better sing.
Joanna:​ Not only do you get candy, it goes, “the patriarchy!” [laughter] Like
that?
Kristin​: You can just write “the patriarchy” really tiny on each pez, Joanna.
[laughter]
Jenny​: That would be spectacular.
Kristin​: So anyhow, onward from the patriarchy.
Joanna:​ So, here we get another beautiful Dan Vebber classic transition.
[laughters] Which Buffy says— Buffy says to Giles, “Nothing’s gonna
happen.” Cut to Willow saying, “Something’s gonna happen!” [Jenny laughs]
Kristin​: Yes!
Jenny​: ‘Cause bowling is too sexy!
Joanna​: Too sexy, with the shoe rental? Too sexy.
Kristin​: You know, it’s like, you think it’s a joke until later when you see
Cordelia’s bowling hair. Did anybody notice how she did her hair for bowling?
It looked great.
Joanna​: That’s exactly what I wanted Kate to talk about. [laughter]
Actually, it was not any clothing, but Cordelia’s bowling hair which is, I think,
perhaps her best hair of the entire series.
Kristin​: Serious, she went hard for bowling. She was like, I’m gonna just
curl it, put it up.
Jenny​: I— as soon as they started talking about bowling, I was really
hoping that I would get to see Cordelia bowl. Even though I knew in my
heart of hearts that I ​would not ​get to see Cordelia bowl, of course I know
this! I really wanna see it. Do you think Charisma Carpenter bowls locally?


Kristin: ​[gasps] Oh my god. [Joanna laughs]
Jenny: ​I mean, not that I would ever find out where Charisma Carpenter
bowls and then go— this is just a bit— I’m just doing a joke right now?
Kristin: ​Yeah, you’re just— that’s it, it’s all over for you.
Jenny: ​I gotta go. Goodbye!
Joanna: ​She has kids, so like, she probably bowls with her kids, right? That
seems like— I don’t know that Charisma Carpenter herself, like on an
afternoon, would go bowling. But I could see her as like an awesome mom
who would go bowling with her kids, you know.
Kristin: ​Totally.
Jenny: ​Oh, hell yeah.
Kristin: ​For the record, I believe that Cordelia is probably a good bowler.
Jenny: ​Right? That was— I feel like if there’s a weak link in that team it’s
Xander.
Kristin: ​Yeah, yeah. I’m not too sure even about Oz. I’m gonna tell you
what, I think that the ladies have it on bowling.
Joanna: ​Cordelia, I think, is definitely the most athletically gifted of the
four. I mean, no disrespect to Xander who looks amazing in a Speedo, but I
think that—
Jenny: ​Yeah! [laughter] Speaking my language.
Joanna:​ Didn’t mean to, like—
Kristin:​ Oh my god. That’s two episodes in a row that we’ve gotten to talk
about Xander in a Speedo.
Joanna: ​Oh no. Okay, well, I’m about to go ham on Xander, are you ready
for this?


Kristin: ​Yeah, we’re always ready.
Joanna: ​Okay, so, you know, your listeners who get mad when ​you ​go hard
on Xander are really gonna dislike me. Because I, at this point, ​hate​ Xander.
I rewatched “Revelations” before this, you know, just to, like, warm up and
be like, oh, watch the one before. And I watched it with a balled-up fist, I
was so angry at Xander in that episode.
Jenny: ​He is the ​worst​ in that episode.
Joanna: ​But so, you know, you guys have been talking this season about
this whole Willow-Xander attraction thing and how much we hate it because
we love Oz and we like Cordelia— no, we love— you love Cordelia.
Jenny: ​You just ​like ​Cordelia. That’s okay.
Joanna: ​I like Cordelia a lot. I don’t like her for Xander, so I don’t, like, care
about that relationship.
Jenny: ​Right, right, right, right.
Joanna: ​I care so much about Oz and Willow. And I was trying to remember
my teenage feelings, watching this season, like when I was a teenager. And
I remember it was complicated by the fact that a) at that time, I didn’t hate
Xander as much. And b) you know, I was set up to sort of root for Xander
and Willow because the way this dynamic— we’ve seen this play out in so
many 80s movies is: the guy falls in love with the wrong girl and doesn’t—
and ignores the best friend right in front of him who’s the right girl for him
all along, right? So Xander’s, like, pining after Buffy and pining after
Cordelia, but the right girl for him was in front of him all along and it was
Willow.
And Willow has that heartbreaking scene in— I think it’s Season 2, right?
Right, where she goes, like, “You would rather be with her than be with me.”
And she’s so sad, and we’re so sad ‘cause Willow’s sad. But the problem—
and so you’re kind of like, oh yeah, Xander finally figured it out that Willow
is like the right person. The problem— there’s a couple of problems. One, as
Kristin pointed out a couple of episodes ago: just don’t cheat. Like, I


understand teenage feelings, but don’t cheat and lie about it, it’s terrible.
And number two is, in the meantime, they cast someone who’s better than
Xander and it’s Oz. And now it’s like, Willow’s doing the wrong thing.
Willow’s chasing the wrong guy, when the right guy is right in front of her,
her own boyfriend.
I don’t know. It’s, like, a sort of messy unified theory of love triangles. But
like— you know, it’s playing with a lot of tropes, which is what ​Buffy ​loves to
do, and it’s destroying happiness, which ​Buffy​ ​also likes to do, so. [laughter]
But I remember feeling more conflicted about it as a teenager, and now
watching it, I’m just like, “ew, ew, stop, stop, stop.” You know?
Kristin: ​Ugh, yeah, this got my only caps of my note-taking actually: “Can I
kiss your earlobe?” And then I said “Ugh, stop touching her hair.” Like just
stop it​.
Joanna:​ Stop everything.
Jenny: ​It’s in the middle of the goddamn day! At school!
Kristin: ​Also, they’re in school! I just— I don’t know. Like, I get it, right?
Fine, there were moments that I understood as this plotline unraveled for
us, or like, you have moments and you don’t mean to, and whatever. And
you don’t wanna say anything ‘cause you think it’s over. Like, I get some of
the pieces of it, but the way that they place it, like in school and in places
where they could be easily found out. It just seems ​so ​over the top
disrespectful to their significant others, whom they love. ‘Cause that’s a
good point, Joanna, right? It’s not even like— it’s not like Willow is in a
relationship where we’re like, well, you know, she could do better. Like, she
literally can’t! [laughter] She couldn’t find— Oz is just so wonderful. And so
you don’t get to even have the, like, well, but maybe they were meant to be.
Like, no, we already know that Willow and Oz are great.
Joanna: ​He gave her. A little. Witch PEZ. Just because! [laughs]
Kristin: ​Right? Because he thinks about her!
Jenny: ​Because she’s the occasion.


Kristin:​ Ugh. I cannot.
Joanna: ​Alright, there’s another transition here, it’s not— [Kristin laughs]
it’s not a great one, but it’s an okay one, where—
Kristin: ​Yeah, what is it?
Joanna: ​Willow says, “Any suggestions?” Like, we need to stop this or
whatever. It’s either Willow or Xander who says “Any suggestions?” and then
we cut to Joyce suggesting some colleges for Buffy.
Jenny:​ A variety of schools.
Kristin: ​Oh. Boy.
Joanna: ​“Any suggestions?” and then Joyce is like, well, there’s CMU, and
Brown, and blah blah blah.
Kristin: ​Nice! And then she also suggest keg parties and boys, which I
found real fun. This is what she thinks her daughter needs, keg parties and
boys.
Joanna: ​Do you feel like Buffy saying, “I don’t see a distinction between keg
parties and boys, and demons and hellmouths” is a call-out to the demon
lizard patriarchy?
Kristin:​ Oooh! Snap.
Jenny: ​Wow! Wow. Wow. Wow.
Kristin: ​Now I do.
[The Patriarchy Jingle]
The Patriarchy!
Mwhahahahaha
Jenny: ​[laughter] Thank you for blowing my mind!


Kristin: ​Jenny is just sitting, like, open-mouthed at the mic and I’m looking
at her like something’s gonna come out of her mouth, but she’s just blown
away.
Jenny: ​Um, amazing? I’m also— oh, sorry.
Joanna: ​No, no, you, please go ahead.
Jenny: ​I just like— there’s something that’s come up twice so far in the
episode, at a previous scene with Giles and his camping gear, and now this
scene, that is really just raising an ongoing issue for me. Which is that
everybody’s like, well, Faith is here in Sunnydale, so she could take over
your s— is anybody gonna give that girl a place to live so she can get out of
that motel?! If they want her to take over the Hellmouth’s slaying duties,
could she live with someone, please?!
Kristin: ​Slayers don’t get a lot of respect, I don’t think. Like, I don’t think
that’s part of the— ‘cause did anybody also ask Faith? [laughs]
Jenny: ​Also no.
Kristin: ​Nobody was like, “Hey, Faith! What would ​you ​think about Buffy
going to college?” Like, everybody’s just assuming that Faith’s gonna step
right in.
Joanna: ​Do you think that Faith wants to leave her motel? It’s so like nice
and [Boston accent] “Spartan,” that she just wants to, like, stay there.
[laughter]
Kristin: ​Joanna, you can’t even have a way of ​knowing ​that that is Jenny’s
favorite line from the entire last episode, ‘cause we haven’t even put it up
yet. But there’s a snippet of Jenny doing that exact line in “Revelations.”
Jenny: ​The cumulative amount of time that I’ve spent saying, “It’s real
[Boston accent] Spartan” is— well, I’ve wasted at least an hour of my life.
Or made something beautiful with at least an hour of my life.
Joanna: ​Oh my god, oh my god.


Kristin:​ It’s good. It’s really good.
Joanna: ​No, but you’re right. Joyce— it’s hard, I don’t wanna spoil anything,
but you know, I would say that Joyce will make some efforts for Faith in
future. But yeah, I mean, Giles is a watcher. Does he have— I don’t know if
he has a nice room in that, like, little abode of his. Yeah, I think he does! I
think he does, I think he could have some room for Faith in his little
apartment.
Kristin: ​Right? Something.
Jenny: ​There’s gotta be a spare room at the Summers’ house. Look at the
outside of the house and then consider what we know about the floor plan,
so far.
Joanna: ​Oh, the Summers house has at least, like, 200 bedrooms.
[laughter] Conservatively.
Kristin: ​Yeah, for sure. For sure. I mean, Faith can set up in the basement!
She could just put a little cot down there, you know?
Jenny: ​Yeah, where the zombie cat came from. Sure. Mm-hmm.
Kristin:​ [laughs] Yeah!
Joanna: ​I think the basement would be real [Boston accent] Spartan, so,
you know. [laughter] I think it could be great.
Kristin: ​Wow. Wow.
Joanna: ​I have a couple questions about this Joyce scene, if I may.
Kristin:​ Yes. Please.
Joanna: ​One, how ridiculous that she’s still calling him Mr. Giles after “Band
Candy”!
Kristin and Jenny: ​Right?!


Joanna: ​But also, two, she talked to Giles, which means they have, like,
phone calls I think, about Buffy. I would like to say, regular phone calls,
where they talk about Buffy on the phone.
Jenny: ​Yeah, but like, are they calls about Buffy or... are they calls about
something else being disguised as calls about Buffy?
Kristin:​ Right, right. Well, that’s— Buffy is their in, you know, like that’s the
thing they get to say they’re gonna talk about.
Jenny: ​Right, right. I just, like, really need to call—
Joanna: ​Mr. Giles! [laughter]
Kristin: ​Mr. Giles! Right.
Jenny: ​[high-pitched voice] Mr. Giles!
Kristin: ​And then Giles is like, “Right, I think this and this for Buffy, also,
I’ve been playing some new records, would you like— [laughter] would you
like to hear a couple of tunes?”
Jenny: ​I’ve got that Seals and Croft you’ve been looking for.
Joanna: ​Here’s a rolled-up cigarette. Umm, no, friend of the pod, Kristine
Sutherland, I am imagining her— right, your new BFF, Kristine Sutherland?
Jenny: ​Of course, of course, of course.
Kristin: ​Friend of the pod, for sure.
Joanna: ​I am imagining her, like, twirling a phone cord. [laughter] Because,
kids, phones used to have cords. Twirling a phone cord, talking to Mr. Giles
about Buffy. Yes. It’s beautiful.
Kristin: ​Yeah, yeah, yeah. Like, leaning against the door frame, maybe
having a little schnapps, I’m just saying.
Joanna: ​[laughs] Um, this is— this is my favorite transition.


Jenny: ​Yes!
Kristin: ​Yes, please, please, please, take us here.
Joanna: ​Because this is where Joyce says, “Honestly, is there anything
keeping you here?” Cut to... [laughter] Angel!
Kristin:​ Oh, god.
Jenny:​ Listen, we’ve—
Joanna: ​Fire! Lip gloss! [laughter] Black clothes! The Jean-Paul Sartre is in
the original French. He is reading ​La Nausée​ or “Nausea” in the original
French. That is all happening in Vamp Mansion. That is what’s keeping Buffy
here.
Kristin: ​I can’t. I cannot.
Jenny: ​He is so extreme and we’ve gotta start something that we’ve been
letting slide far too often. It is officially time for us to start manning the helm
of Angel Combustion Watch 2017 and forward. [laughter] That dude is
reading by the fucking fire. Did you know— we even see in this episode—
Joanna: ​Him building a fire.
Kristin: ​I mean, he puts a fucking log on the thing!
Jenny: ​He throws a log into the fire. Did you know, audience, that one of
the things that can kill a vampire is a ​fire​?
Joanna: ​Here’s a question I have in that section in all caps. Because when
he throws that log on a fire, Buffy is sitting there in a tank top. And my
all-caps question is, “how cold is it in Sunnydale right now?” Like, what is
the temperature— like Sunnydale, no spoilers, is a notoriously toasty place.
This is Southern California, [inaudible] is from Southern California. This is a
warm place. Sure, it’s November, it’s fall. Sure, his mansion doesn’t have,
like, doors and windows. It just has, like, gaping boarded up holes. But if


Buffy can wear a tank top, I don’t think it’s fire weather. Unless, like, are
vampires— because they’re super cold, they need more warmth?
Jenny: ​I don’t think they need warmth at all. I think he’s room temp and
that’s how— what’s comfortable for them.
Kristin:​ I think it’s about— listen, it’s not about—
Jenny: ​Creating ambience?
Kristin:​ Yeah, I mean, let’s be real about how dramatic Angel is. Okay, like,
I mean, he’s a guy who really likes to set scene. He went out, he got back
from the hell dimension, he bought all new furniture at Pottery Barn, you
know? [Jenny laughs] He set up Vamp Mansion, he wants the fire crackling.
He wants to brood by it, read French by it, you know, that’s the kind of guy
he is. It’s nothing to do with warmth.
Joanna: ​He went to the antiquarian bookstore and he’s like, “Do you have
Jean-Paul Sartre, in the original French?” [laughter] “Thank you.”
Kristin: ​I just— I can’t deal with Angel in this entire episode.
Jenny:​ It’s a lot.
Joanna: ​But what’s great about that transition, which is probably my
favourite transition of the episode, is like, Angel is so ​ridiculous​. That when
Spike is looking in through the little hole, you’re, like, kind of on Team
Spike. You’re like, yeah, that guy sucks. [laughter]
Kristin:​ For sure.
Joanna: ​[laughing] I agree with you, Spike. I hate that guy, too. In this
moment. As the fire glistens on his lip gloss, I don’t like him either. So
don’t— I’m not down on a bit of gloss on a man, that’s not the problem. It’s
just like Angel is so efforty in everything he does, so.
Jenny: ​Consider the packet.


Kristin: ​Meanwhile, Spike is just tripping over himself, falling face first, and
setting himself on fire! [laughs]
Joanna: ​It’s so good. That is, like, some comedy combustion right there.
Kristin: ​Ugh, god, I love it. I loved too— I don’t know why I love this, but I
love that little moment where he’s like— his hand is on fire and he goes for
the small drip first, before like realizing that he could dunk his whole hand in
the water? It’s just real good, it’s real good. Jenny, you were gonna say
something.
Jenny: ​I’m just thinking about how, oh wow! Moments after we see Angel
reading by his preferred method of illumination, open firelight, we see
another vampire almost ​die ​because he’s on ​fire​! [laughter] And I’m mad
about it.
Kristin: ​I have a non-fire related question. And I don’t know that anybody
knows the answer to this, but how many magic shops exist in Sunnydale?
Jenny: ​I think there’s just the one.
Kristin: ​But there was the magic shop with the Ital— my Uncle Vinnie, who
was like “the orb of Thesulah. Bada-bing, bada-boom.”
Joanna: ​Uncle Vinnie can’t— or my cousin Vinnie? Like, he can’t work the
magic shop 24/7. So occasionally he has this girl, who I’m gonna call— or
this woman, who I’m gonna call... Autumn? Something similar, right? ‘Cause
she greets Willow with “blessed be” so, unless she has an actual name, I’m
gonna call her Autumn. So, like, Vinnie can’t be hucking orbs of Thesulah in
every shift, right?
Kristin: ​[laughs] Okay, so this is the same shop, just a different employee.
Jenny: ​I think it’s been redecorated. Did Uncle Vinnie die during the orb of
Thesulah era?
Kristin: ​Oh, yeah. I think Uncle Vinnie might have died.


Jenny: ​See, there’s one magic shop, but the mortality rate of magic shop
operators is dreadfully high.
Kristin: ​[laughs] Well, with Autumn’s entry into the magic shop, she’s done
some redecorating in a few—
Jenny: ​I think also, sorry, the magic shop is also the space that they used
for Ethan Rayne’s Halloween boo-porium.
Joanna: ​Ohh.
Kristin: ​Ohh. Well, the boo-porium is probably seasonal, so maybe the
magic shop leases out their space for the boo-porium. [laughs]
Jenny: ​I just meant, like, ​Buffy the Vampire Slayer ​Inc. has this one space
that they redress in a variety of ways, and that’s two different ways that
they have dressed it.
Joanna: ​It’s right around the corner from the Espresso Pump, it’s fine, this
is fine. This is a really big town, guys, it’s a big, huge town. [laughter] With
lots of locations.
Kristin:​ Yeah, down the street from the docks.
Jenny: ​Lot of alleys. Not too many retail outlets, but...
Joanna: ​There’s a movie theater. We got a neon sign this season, it’s—
we’re going places.
Jenny: ​Oh yeah, I forgot about the movie theater.
Joanna: ​The magic shop— what was I gonna say? Oh, Autumn, or whatever
your preferred name for her is, has a really sick dragon mural on the wall of
her shop.
Jenny: ​That dragon mural rocks. Um, Autumn’s other art, which I found
pretty interesting in terms of, like, prime time television in 1998, is this sort
of like— I don’t know if she’s the— she kinda looks like Maleficent or


something? Sort of like a alabaster-skinned, behorned woman, with two bare
papier-maché breasts? [laughter]
Joanna: ​A thousand percent papier-maché. I have a note that says
“papier-maché breasts” right in front of me. [laughter]
Jenny: ​And we see them so many times. We see them every time Spike is
talking in this scene, we see them in the later magic shop battle scene, and
just after—
Joanna: ​And they get jostled! They get jostled so they’re sort of like
bouncing, like, luridly. Yeah.
Jenny: ​They sway to and fro. To and fro.
Kristin: ​Somebody was having a great time with the boobs—
Jenny: ​So did they just slide that past the censors? Or are papier-maché
nipples allowed on television?
Kristin: ​I think papier-maché nipples are probably allowed on television.
Jenny: ​Fascinating.
Joanna: ​I mean, this is art, Jenny. So I don’t know why you’re being such a
prude about it.
Jenny: ​Unlike the human body. Yes, yes.
Kristin: ​Real nipples: no, no.
Jenny: ​Disgusting!
Kristin: ​Papier-maché nipples: yes, yes. [laughter]
Jenny:​ I see, I see, I see.
Kristin: ​That’s how TV works.


Jenny: ​Okay, thank you for fixing me. I get it now.
Kristin: ​I just want— so you have in your notes, “papier-maché boobs”? Is
that what you said, Joanna?
Joanna: ​Uh, breasts.
Kristin: ​Breasts. And I— my note is— I just want you to picture it, boobs
statue, exclamation point, Spike knocks, exclamation point, it, exclamation
point, when, exclamation point, he, exclamation point, kills, exclamation
point, her, exclamation point. [laughter]
Jenny: ​Parenthesis: Autumn.
Joanna: ​Aww. RIP. RIP, Autumn.
Kristin: ​Bye, Autumn. I liked Autumn.
Joanna: ​Also in there somewhere is, like, boils and dripping pustules and—
you know? And then she goes, “We don’t carry leprosy.” [laughter] That’s
what she says. She says, “We don’t carry leprosy.”
Kristin: ​Oh god, it’s so— it’s good.
Jenny: ​Amazing.
Kristin: ​I wanna— so I’m going out of order a little bit, but I wanna bring up
something that has to do with Autumn while we’re on the topic of Autumn.
Because later, Spike and Willow are downstairs, and Spike and Willow have
this moment where Spike’s like, “I haven’t had a woman.” And he says,
“Unless you count the woman at the magic shop.”
Joanna: ​That is super weird.
Kristin: ​Right? I just felt like it was a weird line and it made me interested
to know more. Like, is it— because I feel like usually, vampires, like— it’s
looked at, like, when they feed it’s like a sexual thing, no matter what. But
this line by Spike is like—


Jenny: ​I think Spike is, like, drunk, and full of lust and sadness and, like,
got a whiff of Willow’s neck, and he’s like “Oh, yeah, women! And like,
feeding.” And completely, himself, forgot about Autumn.
Kristin: ​I see, I see. No, but he says—
Jenny: ​And then he says it more, I think, to terrorize Willow than anything
else. That’s my interpretation.
Kristin: ​Okay, okay. You don’t think I need to pull out my encyclopedias on
this one? I was like, mmm, interesting, Spike. I like, took—
Jenny: ​I don’t know what— I don’t know what we’ve learned up to this
point, in Season 3 Episode 8, in terms of sex and feeding, and the overlap of
those Venn diagrams.
Kristin:​ Yeah, I don’t know.
Jenny: ​In this universe.
Joanna: ​I feel like they wrote the “I haven’t had a woman and I can’t
remember the last time” or whatever. And then somewhat smart, like, script
adviser in the room was like “Um, actually, didn’t he just have one?” And
they were like “Oh, yeah.” [laughter] Scribble in a P.S.
Jenny: ​Whoops.
Kristin: ​Yeah, yeah, yeah. That adds up.
Jenny: ​Yeah, ‘cause he says it the way that I would say like, “Agh, I haven’t
had a pizza in—”
Joanna:​ [laughing] Is that something you say, Jenny?
Jenny: ​Well, no. I just— pizza was just the most universal food I could think
of off the top— I would actually say, “Man, I haven’t had a dairy-free
gluten-free no grain shepard’s pie in weeks!” [Kristin laughs] That’s the kind
of monster I am.


Kristin: ​That is sad, yeah.
Jenny: ​So don’t you wish I had just said pizza?
Joanna: ​I’m sorry. I’m sorry I took us down this dark, dark path.
Jenny:​ No. I’m sorry.
Kristin: ​[laughs] I like, Jenny, that you were like, “What would I say when
thinking lustily upon something?” and the first thing you hit was pizza. You
were like, I... pizza!
Jenny: ​It’s just something people lust after, food-wise.
Kristin: ​There was a place down the street from us in Brooklyn and they
had this huge poster in their window and it was an advertisement for pizza.
Not a brand of pizza, not a special pizza, just pizza.
Joanna: ​Just. The food. [laughs]
Kristin: ​Just the food. And it was a sexy woman holding a slice and, like,
about to take a bite.
Jenny: ​[laughing] Oh no!
Kristin: ​What I mean to say, Jenny, is that you are not the only one who
considers pizza a very sexy food.
Jenny: ​Also, one particular advertising agency.
Kristin: ​Yeah, yeah, just an ad for pizza. Who paid for that ad? You know
what I mean?
Jenny: ​I do not know!
Kristin: ​Uncle Vinnie, that’s who. [laughter]​ ​Anyhow, we go to the mayor’s
office. The mayor’s office, is that what you call it? Yeah, the mayor’s office.
Jenny: ​Yeah, I think that’s what you call it! [laughter]


Kristin: ​I don’t know, I just panicked. I was like, doctor’s office? Is it a
mayor’s office? No, it is a mayor’s office.
Joanna: ​Mayor’s office in the larger city hall. City hall, where the Mayor has
his office.
Jenny: ​See? I don’t think we could have told you that before. Well, I don’t
want to speak for Kristin. I couldn’t have said that.
Kristin: ​I mean, I just— I like any scene where I get the Mayor and Allan
together. I just— I really enjoy—
Jenny: ​Yeah. Love the Mayor and Allan.
Joanna: ​Guys, I’ve been a little perturbed listening to your Season 3
episodes, where I feel like the general level of enthusiasm for the Mayor is
lower than it needs to be?
Jenny: ​Whoa, really? Have we been fucking up?
Joanna: ​I need us to turn up the volume on our love for the Mayor of—
[siren sounds in background] Sirens are here in the background.
Kristin: ​You got— you queued that up for the Mayor. You’re like, “These are
my fireworks. ​I ​care about the Mayor.”
Joanna: ​God, the Mayor’s my— well, I mean, I guess you’d call Spike and
Dru and Angel the antagonists of Season 2. It’s hard to beat that, but like,
for a single antagonist for a season, the Mayor is my favorite. So, uh, I just
need us all to get a little bit more hyped and excited.
Kristin: ​Yeah, that’s fair.
Jenny: ​We are ​all ​about it. Especially, like, the dark government aspect
combined with the hand sanitizeriness of it all.
Joanna: ​And putt-putt golf? Yeah.
Jenny: ​Putt-putt golf. And so much that we have not yet even seen.


Kristin: ​Also, his general way of telling dad jokes, in like a— you know—
Jenny: ​I think I might be the Mayor! [laughter]
Kristin:​ It’s troubling— troubling for me. Troubling news for me.
Joanna:​ Oh my god, I’m so—
Jenny: ​I mean, he’s sort of the dad, Mr. Peanutbutter of this show.
Kristin: ​True, he’s very excitable, he loves a good—
Jenny: ​Yeah, very positive.
Kristin:​ Yeah, yeah, he likes jabbin’ Allan.
Joanna: ​Yeah, he wants to think through his metaphors. Like, would a loose
cannon rock a boat? Like, is that a mixed metaphor?
Kristin: ​Oh my god, such a great moment for the Mayor.
Joanna: ​Uh, he has a little thing— do you do this, Jenny? Are you the
Mayor? Like, if someone does something you don’t— like, if Kristin does
something you don’t like, do you just whistle sharply at her to make her—
[laughter]​ ​‘Cause that’s what he does to Allan, like Allen’s his poodle and
he’s like, “Don’t sit there, Allan, no-no.”
Jenny: ​That is one thing I don’t do to Kristin.
Kristin: ​Thank God. I’ll tell you one thing Kristin wouldn’t tolerate is being
highly whistle at.
Jenny:​ Accurate.
Joanna: ​But I do like this scene where— you know, there’s this question
of— they made reference to the Mayor in Season 2, like, a couple of times,
right, to just sort of build him up as someone who was coming. But I like
that he’s like, “Oh, Spike! He got up to so many shenanigans last year, we


just had so much fun.” You know, like, it’s a nod to the fact that the Mayor
was there even— that Spike and the Mayor coexisted in the same place for a
while even though we didn’t see it. So I like that little bit of continuity there.
Kristin: ​Yeah, same. I thought it was a good way of underlining it for people
who might not have been paying close attention to Season 2, to say like, oh,
this guy’s been here the whole time. And I also really like the way that they
talk, that they have this commitment in the office to talking about things as
though they’re really running a government affair, you know? That it’s like,
“get a committee on that” instead of— like, Allan knows what’s up, the
Mayor knows what’s up, the police force even knows what’s up, and yet
they’re all still—
Jenny: ​But they’re gonna say “committee.”
Kristin: ​Yeah, they’re gonna keep it above board.
Joanna: ​Do you wanna get a goon squad of poorly dressed vampires to go
after Spike? [laughter] No, let’s call it a “unwelcoming committee.” Roll out
the unwelcome wagon for Spike.
Kristin: ​We talked already about Angel putting his fucking hands in the fire
and his Pottery Barn decor, which were some of my notes for the next
scene, but this is the scene also where I lose it with Angel. Like, the fucking
French by the fire was a lot, but this scene, where Buffy is fucking over, and
he’s like [low, serious tone], “What are the reasons that you wanna stay
here?” Like, shut! Up!
Jenny: ​Oh my god! But she’s also doing it, too! She’s like, there are— of
course there are reasons—
Kristin: ​She’s seventeen! She’s seventeen!
Joanna: ​She’s seventeen, he’s a many thousands years old.
Jenny: ​[laughing] Okay. Okay, okay, okay, okay.


Kristin: ​She’s supposed to be acting like that! He’s literally a million. And
like, fucking get over yourself. I just cannot. I can’t. Get it together, Angel,
I’ve had enough of your shit, you are a grown man seven times over.
Jenny: ​Look, if you want the 241-year-old vampire, who’s not gonna act like
a teenager when he’s not getting whatever he wants from Buffy in terms of
validation or whatever, find the 241-year-old vampire who wouldn’t fall in
love with a 17-year-old to begin with!
Kristin: ​Zing!
Jenny: ​Just a thought!
Kristin: ​Okay, okay. We’ll look for ​that ​guy. I’m gonna tell you right now, I
don’t think we’re gonna do a good job looking for that guy.
Joanna: ​I don’t think that guy is around.
Jenny: ​Whatever. Do you want to watch Angel be— like, act his age? Do
you wanna watch that or do you wanna watch him like brood and mope and
be ridiculous, and read fucking ​Nausea​ by the fire in the original French?
[laughter]
Kristin: ​[laughing] ​Nausea​ ​by the fire!
Joanna: ​Wait, I just had an idea about why the fires. Don’t you think that
the reason he keeps building these fires is so that he can be like, “Hey,
should we do some sweaty shirtless Tai Chi now?” [laughter]
Kristin: ​Yes! Yes, it is a good reason for him to take his shirt off all the
time.
Jenny: ​Yes! That’s why he wants it to be warm, of course! Because if it’s
warm, he inexplicably sweats, because, like, what’s up with all of his— his
circulatory system? Like, why does he sweat? Why? No one can explain this,
‘cause we just have to keep referring back to meta-phytics.
Kristin:​ Meta-phytics. Meta-phytics. But yes, Joanna, I’m also on board with
this theory.


Jenny:​ Yeah, A plus.
Joanna: ​The glistening tai chi. I’m— I am crushed. No. Slash can’t wait to
hear you guys talk about the glistening tai chi of “Revelations.” [laughter]
Because... it’s like, yeah, it’s amazing.
Kristin: ​It’s really special.
Jenny: ​It is so very much.
Kristin: ​And you’re right, fire can make it so that he has to take his shirt
off, fire might get ash on his shirt, that “oh no, it’s dirty, I have to take it
off.” There’s a lot of ways.
Joanna: ​And then “oops! My shirt came off.” [laughter]
Kristin: ​I don’t know, I don’t know how it happened.
Jenny: ​Dammit!
[AD Break]
Kristin:​ Today’s episode is brought to you by Care Of. Vitamins and
supplements are one of the best and most basic ways to ensure you’re
meeting your body’s nutrition needs. But it can be really hard to figure out
which ones to take. Especially if you go to the drugstore and no one is there
to help you out and they don’t even carry leprosy!
Thankfully, Care Of is a new vitamins company that is here to help. On their
site, they ask you questions about your diet and health goals and
recommend the best supplements for you. It’s a super easy process and it
just takes a few minutes. Then they send you the supplements in
personalized little daily packs, which are super convenient and super cute.
And, best of all, they only use the best ingredients in their vitamins and
supplements. They always choose canary feathers over raven feathers. You
actually save money by getting your vitamins through Care Of, which is
amazing, especially if you need an emergency love spell and have to buy a
million ingredients.


So seriously, Jenny and I both use Care Of. We love the vitamins. I— I get
excited about the daily packs ‘cause they have your name on them and they
give you a daily fact. But it’s a really easy way to take control over a
particular part of your life that has to do with your health, which I think is
important! Because we’re all fighting battles out here, we need to stay
healthy. We love Care Of, we think you will too, and ​Buffy the Vampire
Slayer​ helps us with so much, and now they’re gonna help you get vitamins.
I mean, when did you ever think that would be the reality? It is! You can
just go to takecareof.com and get a personalized recommendation and use
our code “buffering.” You’ll get 50% off your first month. That’s
takecareof.com, offer code “buffering” for 50% off your first month.
[End Ad Break]
Kristin: ​So, okay. If anybody has anything left to say about Angel and fire
in this scene, please, let me know. But I’m gonna unfortunately take us, if
there’s nothing more here, to this scene where they’re doing magic. Mostly
I’m upset because my first note is about this fucking feather and this line
that Xander has, where he’s like, “Feather, and who will I be tickling?”
Jenny: ​Ugh. Gross, gross, gross.
Kristin: ​I hate him, I hate him, I hate him!
Joanna:​ Blegh!
Kristin: ​He makes me wanna peel my own skin off my body and soak it in
some acid before putting it back on my body.
Jenny:​ Blegh!
Joanna: ​This is where Willow goes— I think that— right? This is the scene
where she goes, “Us together is blegh!” and I’m like, it is! It is, Willow!
That’s exactly what it is.
Jenny:​ Yes, yes, yes!


Kristin: ​Yeah! She has a moment of clarity. Also, she does a horrible job of
hiding what she’s doing. I don’t understand what her plan was here.
Jenny: ​I mean, Xerox it or something.
Joanna: ​You ​didn’t do chem with feathers? I don’t know what to tell you.
Kristin: ​[laughs] There’s just the book that says literally nothing else but
“witchcraft” on the front of it. [laughter]
Joanna: ​Witchcraft: the novel. That’s true, that’s a good point. As much as I
hate Xander, which I do, “it smells like church, wait, evil church” is a good
line. It’s a good entrance.
Jenny: ​That is an exact note that I have. Though his one good line in this
episode.
Joanna: ​There’s also— what was I watching? Was it “Revelations”? Where—
sorry to keep talking about an episode your listeners have already heard you
talk about, but like, where— yeah, when they make out in the library. And
he goes— she says no and he goes, “Oh, right, and no means no” and he
actually does stop. I was expecting him to like, just keep going. But then she
initiates. And so I was like, oh, okay, Xander said “no means no” and then
he actually did stop, that’s good points. Points for Xander.
Kristin: ​He had one half of one second of a good moment, and so many...
ughhhh.
Joanna: ​It’s okay, he’s about to get... punished.
Jenny: ​He’s unconscious. Forget about him for a while, ‘cause Spike is here
to force Willow to make a love spell for him. What a great premise, what a
great idea. I love it.
Kristin: ​What a great favorite character choice. [laughs]
Jenny: ​Spike and Willow: dream team.


Kristin: ​Willow’s hair— I just— small note on Willow’s hair is like super
Angela Chase at this point, like they are using the same color—
Joanna: ​Oh, yeah. That gloss? That Herbal Essence gloss on it?
Kristin: ​Exactly. Yes, Herbal Essence, mm-hmm. They painted that shit on.
Joanna: ​Yeah. So, we’ve talked before about, like, when Willow’s upset,
we’re upset, as Willow goes, so goes our nation. But, like, this is my
favorite— I think this is my favorite Alyson Hannigan acting so far in the
series. She has much, much more more acting to do as we go down the
road, but like, here, as she’s listening to Spike talking and she’s panicked
and crying, but trying not to cry, and trying to listen but also doesn’t care,
and is just trying to hold it together? Like, everything that’s happening on
her face in this one scene is just incredible.
Kristin: ​Yeah, it got a sad face emoji drawing from me. When she says,
“Yes, I’ll do it” like, right after— I think he pulls her hair, and she’s, like,
terrified​. And when she says “yes, I’ll do it,” my heart shattered into a
million pieces. Just Willow! Poor Willow!
Joanna: ​This is— bad, bad Spike. Very, very bad Spike.
Kristin: ​Yeah, this is not— this is where the problematic part of the fave
comes in. But also, Spike— I mean, as horrible as Spike is in some of these
moments, Spike also has a really great arc of sad— like, where he sort of—
he’s mean Spike and he wants what he wants, and then he has another one
of these breaks, where he just like— I’m gonna tell— this— Willow’s here. So
I’m just gonna unload—
Jenny: ​[laughing] I’m gonna tell her everything that happened!
Kristin: ​Yeah, I’m gonna tell her about this thing and about this other
thing—
Jenny: ​And this chaos demon with its slime and its antlers—


Kristin: ​I gave Dru everything, I gave her beautiful jewels, even beautiful
girls. Don’t worry, I wrote that down, just so everyone wouldn’t miss it!
[laughter]
Jenny: ​Great, great, great.
Joanna: ​When you say the words together: “lover’s walk.” My first— like,
my Rorschach test call and response for that is “slime and antlers.”
[laughter] That’s the first thing I think of when I hear “lover’s walk”—
Kristin: ​Amazing!
Joanna: ​—is slime and antlers, chaos demon. Also, fun fact about “Lover’s
Walk” that I found out on the “Lover’s Walk” Wikipedia page. Did you know
that in the original script, it doesn’t have an apostrophe? So it’s just this
sad, short, declarative sentence?
Jenny: ​Oooh.
Kristin: ​Ohhh.
Joanna: ​Just like: lovers walk. I don’t know. [laughter]
Kristin:​ Lovers, they walk.
Joanna:​ They walk. So, anyway.
Jenny:​ Dark!
Kristin:​ Interesting.
Joanna: ​You know, Willow is terrorized here but she does stand— she says,
“There will be no bottle in the face, there will be no having of any kind with
me!” You know, she does try her best, but yeah, this is just rough stuff to
watch.
Kristin: ​Well, then we go to Cordy’s bowling hair for a brief break, and then
okay, things are rough at the factory, yes. But then thankfully, we get some
comic relief when Spike heads on over to Joyce’s house. [laughs]


Jenny:​ Yay!
Joanna: ​[gasps] Guys! Guys. It’s our favorite—
Jenny: ​Reunited and it feels so good.
Joanna: ​Our favourite duo, back together. Again.
Kristin:​ Oh my god, I can’t— like, I can’t tell you how many times in
previous episodes, I’ve wanted to use GIFs from this episode. But I didn’t do
it, because I didn’t wanna sp— you know what I mean? Like, we weren’t
there yet, and I was like, I need to wait until we get here to use my favorite
GIFs of the whole series. [laughs]
Joanna: ​That might— this is the best GIF of the whole series, right?
Kristin:​ Right? It is!
Joanna: ​Is Spike standing behind Joyce, while Angel looms in the doorway.
[Jenny and Kristin laugh] Fake menacing her, and he’s not gonna hurt Joyce
‘cause he loves Joyce! Joyce finds him little mini-marshmallows, like, he’s
never gonna hurt her, but he’s fucking— well, he might. But he’s messing
with Angel and it’s just the best thing, visually.
Jenny: ​But like, before anybody gets there, when it’s just Spike and Joyce,
and she’s made him cocoa, and he’s going on and on about Dru, and, like, is
a little more composed, but is kinda saying a lot of the same stuff that he
said to Willow. And she’s, like, genuinely trying to offer him real advice and
comfort? And saying, like, oh, you know, sometimes two people—
Kristin: ​“She sounds very unreasonable!”
Jenny: ​—two people seem right for each other and their lives just take
different paths, like, Joyce is like momming hard and I really appreciate
that.
Kristin: ​Yes, Joyce is momming hard and Angel, by the way, just to bring a
light over here for a second, Angel was just skulking in the woods.


Jenny: ​He was just walking by! And also the door was just wide open.
Kristin: ​He was, like, seriously pulling some Edward Cullen shit in the
woods. He was like, “I’ll just walked by her house and looked in her
window.”
Jenny: ​“To protect her.”
Joanna: ​I know. When, if you recall, she left him and he’s like, “But it’s
early.” And she’s like, “Yeah, my mom worries, I’m gonna go home.” And
he’s like, cool, I’ll just follow you and hang out outside your house, this is
fine. [laughter] I do this all the time. This is way different from the time
when I was evil and would leave you drawings, it’s super different. I’m a
different guy now.
Jenny: ​So very different. And like poor Joyce cannot, ​cannot​ keep up. She
thinks she’s talking to the good vampire, and then Angel is there trying to
bust through the no invitation barrier, and she’s flipping out, because as far
as she knows, Angel is dead or just gone? Does she ever find out from
Buffy?
Kristin: ​I don’t think she knows that— no.
Joanna: ​But see, this is the issue— this the, like, sadness of this scene
where Joyce is momming Spike so hard, is like, Buffy, you too could be the
beneficiary of this good momming if you could just tell your mom what’s
going on with you, but you don’t, ever! Joyce is perpetually in the dark. But
she’s got all this momming love to give and Buffy’s not here for it, and she
gets it all from Giles, you know?
Kristin: ​Isn’t that the way— that was my way. I mean, certainly, my mom
had a lot of momming to give and I was interested in ​none ​of it.
Jenny: ​Sure, sure, sure.
Kristin: ​I shared ​nothing ​with my mom. And— but my friends would! My
friends would sit and talk to my mom. Like, they would do it, not me.


Joanna: ​That’s a great point. And Jenny, I believe the kitchen door is open
because it’s ​hot​, so why do you have a fire, Angel?! [laughter]
Kristin: ​Also, I don’t love— like, I don’t ​love​ watching people walking into
glass pane things.
Joanna: ​Oh no, it’s good.
Kristin: ​But I do find it hilarious, I’m sorry. And I’m just thrilled, getting to
see Angel hit the invisible glass of the barrier here. [Jenny laughs]
Joanna: ​When it’s supernatural, it’s especially hilarious, you know?
[laughter] Like, “Oh, spell glass!” And then, you know, we talked about the
bad Spike a bit, we might have glossed over it, the bad of Spike. But some
of the good of Spike was my favorite thing that James Marsters ever does as
Spike, is kind of sing his lines? So when he goes like [singsongy, British
accent], “You’re not invited!” [laughter] It’s so good! Yeah, so good.
Kristin:​ Yeah, he’s good.
Jenny: ​Also, Spike calls— refers to Angel as “a great poof”?
Kristin:​ Yes, “you and your great poof.”
Jenny:​ Now, is this the very first occurrence of Spike calling Angel “a great
poof”?
Joanna: ​Oh!
Kristin: ​I haven’t heard him—I haven’t heard it before now, because I wrote
it down and I don’t remember— I don’t recall hearing it before this moment.
Is that—
Jenny: ​This is the world premiere of “great poof.”
Kristin: ​Does that happen a lot? Does he call him a poof a lot?
Jenny: ​[singsong voice] I don’t know.


Kristin: ​Some things, I remember and some things, I don’t.
Joanna: ​Are they ever in an episode together again? We don’t know.
Kristin: ​Yeah, who knows?
Jenny: ​It’s impossible to say.
Joanna: ​This could be the last time we ever see Spike, so, you know.
Kristin: ​Spike’s gone! He drove off. [laughs]
Jenny: ​Speaking of creepy-ish boyfriend-girlfriend stuff, Oz can smell Willow
from far away.
Kristin: ​I don’t know why but I don’t find it creepy at all. I was like, “that’s
so sweet!”
Joanna: ​No, but it’s so good, ‘cause you’re like— because Cordelia says,
“This is very disturbing” and he goes, “I really agree.” Which is just such a
good Oz reaction to his own supernatural abilities, you know what I mean?
Oh, and then we have Angel, Buffy, and Spike returning to the scene of the
crime, that is the magic shop, and this is where Buffy goes, “He’s probably
just got them locked up in the factory.” [laughter] And Marsters gives, like,
expert delivery of, “How thick do you think I am? No, I’d never do that, I’m
very subtle.” Yeah.
Kristin: ​Right, one of my notes in this— like, fine, I’m in it. I’m in it, like, I
want the three of them to be, like, palling around Sunnydale. So that they
can get all the requirements that Spike has, so that they can find their
friends. But I just feel like in no other episode to date, have they ever
done— like, they would just be like, fuck off, we’ll find them ourselves.
There’s not that many places to look in Su— I just—
Jenny: ​Listen! Buffy and Spike have a history now. They had a truce, it was
a whole thing.
Kristin: ​Yeah. It’s true. It’s true.


Joanna: ​Yeah, but I feel they would just tie him up and I don’t know...
throw, uh, holy water molotov cocktails at him or something like that until
he tells them. But yeah, I like this idea that Buffy has, like, a bit of an
allegiance to Spike. Even though they walk in and it’s like, he’s murdered
someone, so... [laughter]
Kristin: ​The lines are blurry.
Jenny: ​Oh my god, she’s literally “Your work?!”[laughter] and he doesn’t
even respond. There’s just like an unspoken understanding that—
Kristin: ​Poor Autumn.
Joanna: ​He’s like, yeah, sometimes I kill people. Listen. She was annoying,
she’s the kind of person who greets people with “blessed be”, so it’s no great
loss, it’s fine. This is fine.
Kristin: ​So Spike has this little monologue in the magic shop, that I just
wanna just play the sound clip for, because it’s just— it’s real good.
[Clip from the episode]
Spike: You’re not friends. You’ll never be friends. You’ll be in love ‘til it
kills you both. You’ll fight, and you’ll shag, and you’ll hate each other
‘til it makes you quiver, but you’ll never be ​friends​. Love isn’t brains,
children. It’s blood, blood screaming inside you to work its will. I may
be love’s bitch, but at least I’m man enough to admit it.
Kristin: ​Okay, so I’m not gonna pause it and I’m not gonna play it for you,
Joanna, but it’s the, you’re not friends—
Joanna: ​“You’ll never be friends? You’ll be in love until it kills you both?
[laughter] You’ll fight, and you’ll shag, and you’ll hate each other until it
makes you quiver but you’ll never be friends? Love, it’s not brains, children.
It’s blood, blood screaming inside you to work its will. I may be love’s bitch,
but at least I’m man enough to admit it.” That?
Jenny:​ Wow.
Kristin: ​That’s the one. That’s the one. You did it.


Joanna: ​It’s such— it’s an amazing speech. It’s an amazing speech.
Kristin: ​It really is. I went to Google it, ‘cause I was like, I don’t— I didn’t
have it memorized because I’m not cool. And I didn’t know if I was gonna
transcribe the whole thing, so I was like, let me Google it. And when you
Google, like, “Spike let’s…” It’s like, let’s not be friends? Would you like to
pull up this famous speech that Spike delivers in the magic shop? [Joanna
laughs] But it’s really great, and I don’t know— and there’s a moment that
Buffy has towards the end of the episode too, where she’s like, “I guess I
can fool my friends, I can fool everybody, except for myself and also Spike?”
Like, I love that Spike— you know what I mean? He sees the truth between
the two of them. I mean, I kinda think everybody does. But I love that he
gets to share this moment with them and be the one to kind of call it out,
since Angel is just... ridiculous and can’t speak his feelings out loud ‘cause
he needs a few more years on the planet to learn how to—
Joanna: ​I like to call this “Spike recaps the film ​When Harry met Sally.​”
[laughter] Can a man and a woman be friends? “No”, says Spike, “no.”
Yeah, I like that you brought up that line where Buffy says, “I can fool Giles,
I can fool my friends, but I can’t fool myself.” Uh, you’re not fooling Giles.
And you’re not fooling your friends. [laughter]
Kristin: ​Pretty much everybody knows.
Joanna: ​You ​are ​fooling yourself, but not Spike. So... yeah. But yeah, Spike
gets it. He gets it, man.
Kristin: ​He gets it. And then... I don’t even wanna— this is the worst.
Joanna: ​I don’t wanna talk about it, it’s so gross. I have in all caps here,
“Gross, gross, gross. They make out, gross.” [laughs]
Kristin: ​It’s just— I was telling Jenny before we watched the episode tonight
that I’ve only seen the series one time. And so I really only have a handful
of memories, ‘cause I’m also me, and I don’t remember things very well.
And this scene, I— you know, it’s like, one of five scenes that I remember
very vividly. Them making out, and me being very upset about it, and
Cordelia falling.


Joanna: ​Falling!
Kristin: ​It’s just, the whole thing— like, it probably— I was set up for it with
the PEZ, I was set up for it with the photos, fine. But it’s just also— it’s
just— I hate it. I hate it and I wish it didn’t have to happen.
Joanna: ​The falling is that extra Joss twist of, like— she did not need to
get— this is, PS, this is where— this is the scene that made me learn the
word “rebar.” She did not need to get rebarred through her ribcage, in order
to really feel what what was happening here. I mean. It’s so distressing.
Kristin: ​Right. But it’s so— and her line, like, the fact the she just—
Joanna: ​“I fell.” Ugh.
Kristin: ​Yes! “I fell.” It just like— it guts me, get it? ‘Cause she’s— okay.
[laughs]
Jenny: ​You know, and this really didn’t ​have ​to happen, because Oz and
Cordelia came down a long set of stairs and also had to break into a door,
somewhere? So, how do they not hear them coming?!
Joanna: ​Willow was flinging her body against that door to no avail, so that
door definitely made some sort of noise when they opened it earlier. So
yeah. Like, you hear them a little bit on the last two steps before they get
to— and like, okay, they’re making out— I don’t know, you’re making out,
the world goes away, maybe, but it’s all terrible.
Kristin: ​Also, not to whatever— I mean, there’s a lot of reasons to not be
happy about what happens here. [Jenny laughs] But the fact that Xander— I
mean, Xander has been knocked ​super ​unconscious. He wakes up and he
says, “I’m feeling nauseous, I can’t stand up straight.” So, I’ve never been
in this position before. I’ve never been in a basement of a factory, with
blood dripping from my head, with my best friend who I have feelings for.
But I just—
Jenny: ​Having been kidnapped by a peroxided vampire.


Joanna: ​I have.
Kristin: ​I have been in some— you have? Okay, so maybe you can speak to
this, Joanna. [laughter] I have been in some life-or-death scenarios before,
and I’m just gonna tell you that like, making out with somebody is probably
not gonna be— like, I just don’t think that’s what would have hap— I just
feel like they would have done something else here and not kissed. I don’t
buy it.
Joanna: ​Also, she’s putting her hands near his wound.
Kristin:​ Near his head!
Joanna:​ I was like, it’s just— he’s got a huge, massive wound on the side of
his head, it’s disgusting! It’s all bad. All terrible.
Kristin: ​[sighs] So while all this is happening, the committee— the Mayor’s
committee is, you know, after Spike. And something that I also take issue
with in this fight scene— ‘cause I do love it. I love how they’re like, “Ugh,
we’re staying.” They’re just so annoyed, Angel and Buffy, the whole time—
Jenny: ​Also the lead vampire is like, “You guys can go.” What vampire is
ever like, there’s twenty of us and one of Spike, let’s just let these humans
go. We don’t need to eat them.
Kristin: ​I think the Mayor runs a tight ship, you know. I think the Mayor is
like, “Get in, get out.”
Joanna: ​“Here’s your target, don’t make a mess, don’t destroy the Espresso
Pump and the magic shop at the same time.”
Kristin: ​Yes, right! Trying to take care of Sunnydale. But what I hate is that
they just painstakingly found all these fucking ingredients for this fucking
love spell. And then the vampires are there, and— you watch the paper
bags, they just toss them to the side, nobody cares—
Jenny: ​Throw ‘em to the side.


Joanna:​ There’s also not really much in those paper bags, by the way.
[laughter] There’s like, some feathers.
Jenny: ​A couple raven feathers—
Kristin: ​Yeah, they needed lots of various feathers from various creatures
for that spell.
Joanna:​ Also, Lenny, the lead vampire, has— this is where I really do miss
Kate. I want to hear her thoughts on the necklace that he’s wearing,
because it’s a statement necklace. He’s got a whole thing happening.
Kristin: ​[laughs] I didn’t notice the necklace. Can you tell us all about it?
Jenny: ​Yeah, what’s the necklace all about?
Joanna: ​It’s not quite a choker, but it’s like, it’s high... it’s like a rope. It’s
like a thick metal rope, chain thing. And he’s got— he’s one of those 70s
vampires. He’s one of those guys with the leather coat and the open collar,
printed— which is also 90s, like, ‘cause Xander would probably wear that
also. But you know, he’s looking very 70s. He’s got this huge necklace on.
Spike names him— his name is Lenny. Lenny does not make it through this
episode, but you know, pour one out for Lenny and his fashion sense.
Kristin:​ RIP Lenny. [laughter]​ ​Also, shout out to Buffy with a move that I’m
not sure we’ve not seen? Maybe we have, but where she takes out two
vamps with one stake?
Jenny: ​Nice.
Joanna: ​The vamp kebab move, yeah. It’s very good.
Kristin: ​[laughs] That’s the official name. In the “Vampyre” book, it says.
[laughter]
Jenny: ​Can we also talk about the recurrence of this Angel face that we see
anytime Angel is experiencing pain, struggling, fighting, anything like,
physically taxing in any direction as he’s holding a door close with all of his
strength. He has his teeth bared like a cartoon, and he’s just sort of just


wagging his head around really fast, and like changing the diameter of his
bared teeth ever so slightly with each turn. I feel like this is worth noting
because it is a David-Boreanaz-as-Angel staple and [laughter] you will see it
a lot, once you know what to look for. Also, the door that he was holding
with all of his strength, once it’s finally knocked down on top of him—
Joanna: ​Balsa wood.
Jenny: ​Yeah, fucking balsa wood, and all of two vampires run in on top of
him. And he remains laying down under the door forever. And then when
Buffy, the slayer, comes over to move the door off of him, which is like a
piece of styrofoam, she has to push it to the side, and then flip it up. She
can’t just flip it off of him, and she’s like, “You’re not up to your full
strength.” A vampire does not need to be up to their full strength! Just get
up! [laughs] The door came down.
Kristin: ​Giles would have just stood up.
Jenny: ​Nonsense.
Kristin: ​Just a watcher man, with no special—
Jenny: ​Just a regular dude.
Kristin: ​Just a regular dude would have stood right up. I agree.
Jenny:​ Yeah, trash.
Joanna: ​Yeah, Angel under that door is ridiculous. Angel just struggling,
under that door.
Jenny: ​Do you think he was, like, mentally reciting lines from ​Nausea​ while
he was laying down underneath that door? [laughter] Like, why should I
even get up?
Joanna: ​In the original French. [laughs]


Kristin: ​Maybe that’s what was happening down there, he was just thinking
through his deep brooding Angel thoughts. He was like, “Let me take a
moment in the darkness of this door.”
Joanna: ​So you’re saying— so Angel’s actually soft, but it’s Spike— Spike is
the one who gets called soft, which is apparently a trigger word for him. Like
Marty McFly and chicken. You call Spike soft and he will pop off on you,
which he does. With like really elaborate baby themed taunts, he goes on
and on and on.
Kristin: ​Yes! “Baby like his supper,” I have written down in all caps.
Joanna: ​“Why doesn’t baby have a nap?” he says. [Kristin laughs]
Jenny: ​What a weird choice.
Joanna: ​Here’s something I wanna say, ‘cause I don’t think— yeah, Spike
wasn’t doing any fighting in the last episode I did with you guys. You know,
we can have our criticisms of our ​Buffy the Vampire Slayer​ stunt doubles.
But one thing I will say is that Spike’s fighting style is always very distinctive
to me. It’s a very swingy underdog bar-room brawl sort of thing, probably
specifically crafted to make his coat really good. [laughter] But, you know,
he’s always just like— I really love whoever his stunt double is. I think Spike
fighting other vampires is one of my favorite things.
Kristin: ​Hell yes, I’m there with you. I love a good Spike fight. Some Spike
fights I like more than others but I can’t talk about those yet. [laughter] And
Spike— this is where Spike does his grand turn around.
Jenny: ​Yeah, he’s gained a lot of perspective by getting to do some
violence.
Kristin: ​Yes, he realizes that love is a funny thing. [Jenny laughs]
Joanna: ​Would you say that this is where Spike gets his groove back?
Because that’s what I would say.
Kristin:​ I would. I would say exactly that.


Jenny: ​One hundred percent.
Joanna: ​Much like Stella, Spike here gets his groove back.
Kristin: ​And thank God, because I’ll tell you what, as much as I love a little
bit of sad, drunk Spike, I do love Spike with the windows down, singing
loudly, ready to— I mean, his exact words are “tie her up, torture her, ‘til
she loves me again.” Which is problematic, but is couched in vampire land,
so...
Joanna: ​It’s problematic, except that is actually exactly what Dru is
interested in.
Kristin: ​What Dru wants. Exactly.
Joanna: ​That’s why I was like “Ugh?” Then I was like “Ahh.” [laughs] Those
are my range of emotions.
Kristin: ​It’s like, if they’ve got a safe word, you know what I mean? We’re
certainly not gonna yuck any yums, here in the land of ​Buffy the Vampire
Slayer.
Joanna: ​Mm-hmm.
Jenny: ​Speaking of yucking and yumming, I just wanna papier-maché boob
alert one more time. [laughter] ‘Cause there they are.
Joanna: ​Jiggling their hearts out.
Kristin: ​Well, you know, that might be the first time on the podcast that the
word “jiggling” has been said, so thank you, Joanna.
Joanna: ​Oh.
Kristin: ​For bringing it into our orbit.
Joanna: ​Well, okay, once again, feel free to edit this out if you consider this
problematic. But there’s this scene earlier in the episode, where Buffy is


doing jump rope in a tank top? And so... I don’t know if you guys ever
watched ​Doctor Who​ but—
Kristin: ​I have not.
Joanna: ​I not only have watched ​Doctor Who​, but I have watched it with
the commentary. And there was one scene once where Billie Piper, who
plays Doctor Who’s companion, there’s just like a real close up on her tight
shirt that she’s wearing. And David Tennant, who I consider quite woke, he’s
like, “Yeah, I think that one was for the lads.” And that’s what I think of all
the time. I mean, that’s heteronormative, but I was like, that’s for the lads
or whoever would enjoy Sarah Michelle Gellar jumping rope in a tank top.
This scene was for you. You know?
Kristin: ​You know, now that you say that, Joanna, I feel like there were a
lot of boobs in this episode. Because in this scene, I think, in the magic
shop, she’s also wearing like— I noticed it, that she was wearing a very low
cut tank that was also glistening. She had a little Angel glisten going on.
Joanna: ​It’s the same tank, she’s just put a hoodie on top of it. But it’s the
same very low cut tank, and she— yes, she is quite glistening. Anyway.
[laughter] “Glistening and Jiggling” is what my podcast will be called.
[laughter]
Kristin: ​Speaking of jiggling, we should probably give the Sexual Tension
Award to someone. Now, I am gonna tell what. Jenny, you should pay the
jingle. Play the jingle, let’s start there.
Jenny: ​Sure, sure.
[Sexual Tension Award Jingle]
Sexual Tension Award!
Kristin: ​Now, let’s have a discussion on if anyone has ideas about who the
Sexual Tension Award is going for, because usually, I have it all in my head
and I don’t. Joanna, did you have a stand-out?
Joanna: ​I don’t have a stand-out because, like, everything’s so bad and
sad. But maybe Joyce and Spike? [laughs]


Kristin: ​Right?
Joanna: ​Like, that’s as close as I could get.
Kristin: ​Joyce and Spike.
Joanna: ​Or— or Joyce’s imaginary phone call with Mr. Giles. [laughter]
Kristin: ​When we talked about that earlier, I was like “Ooh, maybe that’s
where it will go.” What do you think, Jenny?
Jenny:​ The only other thing I’d put on the table alongside the imaginary
phone call between Joyce and Mr. Giles, is the sort of like, next generation
throuple of Spike, Angel, and Buffy, walking around, like, poking at each
other? And—
Kristin:​ Yeah. Okay.
Joanna: ​And fighting together. Like, I did— I loved watching them fight
together. Reluctant, like, Buffy’s like, “I guess we’re staying.” But then they
have a really good time fighting together.
Kristin: ​Yeah. I don’t know, I’m on the— my heart wants to give it to a
throuple always, right? But in my mind, I kind of enjoy them as a three’s
company, you know what I mean? Like, they’re just palling around. So, I
don’t know. I might go— is it okay to go Spike and Joyce?
Joanna: ​Yes. Says me.
Kristin: ​Joanna says yes, do you think it’s okay?
Jenny: ​This is a democracy, so me favoring the imaginary phone call
between Joyce and Mr. Giles is both in the minority and also not an actual
thing that happens.
Kristin: ​It’s hard, this is a hard one.
Joanna:​ The mini-marshmallows. Come on.


Jenny:​ Okay. Alright.
Kristin: ​Joanna, I’m locking eyes with you across the miles right now,
because that’s exactly what I thought. I was like, well, there was the
mini-marshmallows. Why?! Why did I think that too? I don’t know why. But I
think they just have something special.
Joanna: ​They do.
Jenny: ​I’ll allow it.
Kristin: ​Alright. There it is. Sexual Tension Award. You didn’t see it coming,
folks. To Joyce and Spike.
Joanna: ​Ok, so let me— can I talk to you about the Sexual Transition
Award? [laughs]
Kristin: ​Yes, please do.
Joanna: ​It might belong here, which is—
Jenny: ​So fucked up.
Joanna: ​It’s a cheap shot, but it’s fast enough that I think it’s funny. I
can’t— teenage me does not remember— I don’t remember teenage me
being annoyed by this, so adult me probably would be. But Cordelia’s lying
there with a rebar through her ribs, she goes to Xander, “I can’t see you,”
passes out, she looks dead. Cut to a funeral! [laughter] Where the person
presenting to the funeral says, “For the dominion of Hades in not on earth,
for righteousness is immortal.” What is this funeral that’s happening? I don’t
know. Who says Hades?
Jenny: ​Dude! Right? What denomination is citing Hades?
Joanna:​ Yeah, exactly.
Kristin: ​Wow.


Joanna: ​I expected him to say Hecate next or something like that.
[laughter] But then Willow and Buffy are taking a stroll in the graveyard and
Buffy says, “So Cordelia’s gonna be okay?” Right? So this is like a
cheap-crazy transition, but— the most diabolical of the episode.
Kristin: ​Seriously! I was wrong, I did use caps one other place, and it is
“fucked up funeral trick” in all caps. [laughs[ That’s fucked up!
Joanna: ​It’s pretty fucked up.
Kristin: ​Really fucked up. And it worked on me. I remember it working on
me not that long ago, the first time I watched this episode.
Joanna: ​Oh, you were like “Cordelia’s dead?” Really? You thought so?
Kristin: ​Yes! I really did, I really thought— I mean, why wouldn’t you think,
you know? If you don’t​— I didn’t know.
Joanna: ​I know. They killed Jenny Calender, why wouldn’t they kill
Cordelia?
Kristin: ​Yeah, anything could happen.
Jenny: ​But you know what’s great about Cordelia getting impaled?
Kristin: ​[laughs] If there’s a silver lining.
Jenny: ​If there’s one silver lining, it’s that we get to see her no-makeup
look which—
Joanna: ​Beautiful.
Jenny: ​I love, support, celebrate, and embrace with a full heart and a deep
admiration. Praise.
Kristin: ​Yes, I think​— I mean,​ both for the trauma that she’s been through
this episode and for her beauty, I think we should give Cordelia her jingle.
Cordelia Jingle:


Cordelia (ah-ahh)
I love you, Cordelia (ah-ahh)
You’re perfect, Cordelia (ah-ahh)
Joanna: ​The way that scene is shot, too, where you just— where we can
see Cordelia’s face but Xander can’t. Until she turns around and we see her
in full light, but for a long time it’s just her with her face to the camera,
looking so sad and small and upset. And Xander, like, trying— you know,
Xander’s trying in this scene, but you know, when she’s like, “Go, leave me
alone”? It’s... yeah. It’s a lot.
Kristin: ​It’s gutting. I mean, that’s the thing is like, even those of us who
are not a fan of Xander being with Cordelia, I think, at least for me, I
wanted to, like, revel in the moment that Cordelia wasn’t with Xander
anymore, was upset with Xander, and it’s just like, there’s nothing to
celebrate, it’s just so—
Joanna: ​She’s so sad.
Kristin: ​She’s ​so​ sad. And she— you know, I know that Willow is usually our
barometer, but we really follow Cordy at the end here. She’s just— ‘cause
we’ve never seen her​—​ we’ve never seen her like this, without— you know,
we’ve seen moments of her having, here and there, but nothing like this.
And it’s just sad, I got another sad emoji drawing.
Joanna: ​She fell! She fell.
Kristin: ​She fell. She fell so bad! And then... back to Vamp Mansion. [Jenny
laughs] Back to Vamp Mansion.
Joanna: ​For a break-up that’s definitely gonna stick. This is it, guys.
Kristin:​ Definitely!
Joanna: ​Buffy and Angel part ways forever. This is it.
Kristin: ​Oh my god, “I’m not coming back.” Also​—
Jenny: ​“What I want from you, I can ​never ​have.”


Kristin: ​His. Penis. [laughs]
Joanna: ​And then he says, “I don’t accept that.” And she goes, “You know
what, bro? You have to.” For now. [laughs]
Kristin: ​That’s the thing. It amazes me— I mean, it shouldn’t amaze me,
but it’s just like the fact that she’s seventeen, and she’s the one that, like, is
just, “I’m gonna walk away. I have to walk away from this.” You’re left being
like, really, dude?! Like, you really weren’t gonna help her out? ‘Cause he
doesn’t help her out at all. He’s like “I don’t accept that.” Like he’s— you
know what I mean? He should be the one to— I just​— ​ugh, Angel.
Joanna: ​Yeah, even if he’s not mature enough​—​ as Jenny points out we
want our vampire lover to have teenage feelings. But even if he’s not mature
enough to be the one to initiate it, if your teenage ​lover ​says, “I shouldn’t be
with you, because you know, apocalyptic violence.” You should be grown-up
enough to be like, “Yeah, I get that. I too have read Sartre in the original
French.” You know, like, I get it, we should not be together. Instead he says,
“I don’t except that”? Like, fuck that response. I don’t like it.
Kristin: ​Yeah, fuck that, I agree, I agree. Fuck that response, not happy
with it. We usually don’t play the Patriarchy jingle more than once in an
episode, but Angel’s bullshit... I would like to play it again. I would like to
play it again.
[The Patriarchy Jingle]
The Patriarchy!
Mwhahahahaha
Jenny: ​Unprecedented!
Kristin: ​[laughs] As we wind down out of this episode, I started writing,
“Everyone is soooo sad” ‘cause it’s just this horrible—
Joanna: ​Sadness montage. [laughs]
Kristin: ​Yeah! Sadness— exactly. It’s the saddest montage.


Joanna: ​Okay—
Kristin: ​Please, oh my God, by the sound of your “okay,” I’m wondering if
you’re gonna say what I’m gonna say.
Jenny: ​Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, I think we might all have the same thing to say!
Kristin: ​Okay, go ahead, Joanna, what were you gonna say, what was your
“okay” for?
Joanna: ​Okay, first PEZ witch, okay. But then why is Oz in The Bronze after
it’s, like, closed? [laughter]
Kristin: ​That’s exactly my note: “LOL, Oz playing guitar alone on The
Bronze pool table.”
Jenny: ​As the musician of the group, that did not ring an alarm for me. I
was like “Sure. Of course.”
Kristin: ​No? I was like—
Joanna: ​He can play alone there, but did he break ​into​ The Bronze? It’s
closed, it’s closing time. Like, everyone’s gone home and Oz is still at The
Bronze.
Jenny: ​No. Dingos are— they’re essentially the house band at this point,
and Oz is definitely the most responsible person in that band. He probably
has keys to The Bronze.
Joanna: ​Oh my God. So wait, so you’re saying that Oz went to The Bronze
in the dead of night, and just, like, opened it up so he could walk in and
strum his little heart— his little werewolf heart out? A werewolf in love?
[laughter]
Kristin: ​A werewolf in love!
Jenny: ​And lock eyes with the camera. [laughter]


Joanna: ​Okay, so if Kristin and I had the same thing, what is your thing,
Jenny?
Jenny: ​You guys, my thing was— okay, after Oz, we see Xander in the
library, Cordelia in the hospital, and then we see Buffy, so sad, wearing the
traditional mourning colors of pink leopard print. [Kristin laughs]
Joanna: ​Oh, yeah, I have: “terrible pink leopard-print button-down, this is
where we need Kate.”
Kristin: ​Yeah. I need it!
Jenny: ​What. Is. That. Shirt!
Kristin: ​I made a special Joanna specific note to say, I think that this is
where Buffy would have typically put on her overalls of sadness. [laughter]
And she has not! She’s really plot twisted us all with this choice!
Joanna: ​The other thing I wanna say is that I was on record, the last time I
was on this podcast, as loving her giraffe pants, which I do. I have such
fondness for Buffy’s giraffe pants. [laughter] But I can’t follow her down this
animal print path, this is not one I can—
Jenny: ​It’s a bridge too far.
Joanna: ​It’s like, ​hot ​pink. It’s hot pink leopard print. It’s very bad.
Kristin: ​It’s very... extreme. And I wonder about it from just like a
production stand​— like,​ how did they come to that place? What is it
supposed to signify? It’s like, sad, sad, sad. Leopard print. Okay.
Joanna: ​Hot pink, electric pink leopard print. Ugh. The first time I watched
this episode in preparation for this podcast, I was watching it on a smaller
screen, and I was like, is that leopard print? It can’t be. That’s too terrible.
And then I watched it again and I was like, that is ​some ​fluorescent leopard
print. My God.
Kristin: ​It’s some serious shit. It really is.


Jenny: ​So like everyone is ​so​ ​sad, except for one guy named Spike! Who’s
leaving​—​ also the only one leaving Sunnydale, so maybe there’s something
we can discern from that particular​— those two particular circumstances.
Kristin: ​Did we talk about the fact that he crashed through the Sunnydale
sign both times? Did we say that out loud?
Joanna: ​Yes, we did.
Kristin: ​Ok, we did, good, phew. Continue, Jenny.
Joanna: ​The other thing that I learned from the “Lover’s Walk” Wikipedia
page, which I did not realize, is that this is not the Sex Pistols singing “My
Way.” It’s Gary Oldman doing— ‘cause he played Sid Vicious— doing the Sex
Pistols doing “My Way.”
Jenny: ​What a choice— I wonder if it was easier for them to license that
master than it was for them—
Joanna: ​Oh, yeah, that makes more sense. I was like, why?! [laughter] But
I was like, I’m sure Spike loves Gary Oldman. He’s probably seen like Bram
Stoker’s​ Dracula​ a bunch of times. [laughter] He’s really into what Gary
Oldman’s putting down. But this is an eccentric choice. But you’re right,
yeah. The musician has the right answer, I think, here.
Jenny: ​Wow. Wow! Wow, wow, wow, wow. You’ve just opened— I feel like
we saw the sunset club, like, vampire worshipper human people, watching
vampire movies, but I wonder what the relationship is​—
Kristin:​ Between vampires and vampire movies?
Jenny:​ Yeah. Is Spike watching Bram Stoker’s ​Dracula​?
Joanna: ​I feel like he would be very crit— I actually would love to hear
Spike talk about​—
Jenny:​ He would love to hate to watch it.


Joanna:​ Tom Cruise in ​Interview with a Vampire​, and be like, that’s
garbage, Brad Pitt’s garbage, but you know who’s great? Gary Oldman.
[laughter]
Kristin: ​Oh my god! I love that Angel’s like sitting by the fire, reading books
in French, while Spike is watching ​Interview with a Vampire​ and giving us
commentary. It’s really, really good.
Joanna: ​Listen. Listen, no spoilers, but just think about what you know
about Spike’s taste— if he ever comes back in the show.
Kristin: ​If he ever​—​ right.
Joanna: ​Yeah, if he ever returns, think about what you know about Spike’s
taste in pop culture and ruminate all that.
Kristin: ​[laughing] Yeah. Solid call. Wow.
Jenny: ​I think we’ve really done it this time.
Kristin: ​We ​have​ really done it. The only sad part about this is that we’ve
done it, but now we have to say goodbye to Joanna, which is a thing I never,
ever wanna do. Ever.
Joanna: ​Aw, guys. Alas, alack. Please have me back. I did not mean for that
to rhyme, that was like the “be kind, rewind” of— [laughter] of farewells.
Jenny: ​That was a beautiful poem and I will treasure it always. Thank you
for composing it for us. [laughter]
Kristin: ​So Joanna, what 75 podcasts are you doing at the moment?
Jenny: ​Yes, where can everyone find you?
Joanna: ​Yeah, well, you know, you might wanna listen to me on ​A Storm of
Spoilers​ because we actually just got a request from a listener to do a
Buffy​-themed episode of ​A Storm of Spoilers, ​‘cause we’re—
Jenny: ​What?!


Kristin:​ Yes!
Joanna: ​We’re in our off season. We were doing​—​ I think we were doing
Game of Thrones​ when the 20th anniversary happened, so— no, that’s not
true. Anyway, point being, we owe our listenership a ​Buffy​ ​podcast episode
of ​A Storm of Spoilers​. So you might wanna listen to that. We’re talking
about all kinds of fun stuff over on that podcast. If you’re interested in
awards season and all, which, who knows? You might be. I do a podcast
called ​Little Gold Men​ for Vanity Fair. And if you listen to ​Fighting in the War
Room​, I’m on it this week for, like, ten minutes.
Kristin: ​Woo!
Joanna: ​Well, this will be a couple weeks from now, but anyway, point
being, I’m everywhere. And also on Twitter @jowrotethis.
Kristin: ​Joanna, it’s always the best. We love having you on, we hope to
have you back this season. We hope we get you back another time this
season.
Jenny: ​Every minute of every day. Can you clear your schedule?
Kristin: ​Actually, now that we know that we can just Skype call you in
without warning, look out. [laughter]
Jenny: ​A valuable tool.
Joanna: ​Yeah, so who knows? I might crash into the Sunnydale sign that is
your podcast in​—
Jenny: ​[laughing] Yes!
Kristin: ​What an image! What a beautiful, glorious image.
Jenny: ​Well, I’m Jenny Owen Youngs, and when I’m not making this
podcast, I’m making songs. You can hear some of them over at
jennyowenyoungs.com/buffering and you can always give me a holler on
Twitter @jennyowenyoungs.


Kristin: ​Yes, and I am Kristin Russo. You can find me on Twitter
@kristinnoeline, that’s k-r-i-s-t-i-n-n-o-e-l-i-n-e, and you can also learn
more about the ongoing work that I do with LGBTQ communities and their
families over at kristinnoeline.com.
Jenny: ​Buffering Cast is on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram at
@bufferingcast, and you can drop as an email at
bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin: ​You sure can! And you can support the work that we’re doing here,
both talking about ​Buffy​ and slaying the patriarchy on a weekly basis, by
going on over to Patreon. Our Patreon page is linked on our website
bufferingthevampireslayer.com, just click on “Patreon” and you can support
at the dollar, $5, or $10 level and get pretty sweet things in return for your
support. You can also go on over to iTunes and rate and review us. We
would love it!
Jenny: ​And it’ll help people find the show.
Kristin: ​Sure will. Well, Joanna, will you howl out with us?
Joanna: ​Please, I would love to.
Kristin: ​Great.
Jenny: ​Fantastic. ‘Til next time...
Kristin, Jenny, and Joanna: ​AWOOOOOOOOOOOOO!
Joanna: ​I kinda... fucked that up a little, guys.
Kristin: ​Do you wanna do it again?
Jenny: ​Oh gosh. Another howl?
Joanna: ​Alright, yes, I’m ready.
Jenny: ​Hell yeah. ‘Til next time!


Kristin, Jenny, and Joanna: ​AWOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO!
[Jenny performs “Lover’s Walk” off the album “Songs from Season Three” by
Buffering the Vampire Slayer]
Spike needs a love spell like right now
He wants what he wants and he don’t care how
Drunk as vamp metabolism will allow
Spike needs a love spell like right now
Abracadabra, alakazam!
Eye of rat, essence of violet
Cloves and some runic tablets
Skink root, canary feather
Rosethorn, mix ‘em all together
Yeah, yeah, yeah
Spike needs a love spell like real quick
Dru made out with a Chaos Demon, holy shit!
So he kidnapped Willow ‘cause she knows magic
Spike needs a love spell lickety split
Abracadabra, alakazam!
Eye of rat, essence of violet
Cloves and some runic tablets
Skink root, canary feather
Rosethorn, mix ‘em all together
Yeah, yeah, yeah
Spike needs a love spell, so he thought
Couldn’t hear over the beating of his broken heart
Love without a soul can still be really hard
Spike needs a love spell, so he thought
Abracadabra, alakazam!
Eye of rat, essence of violet
Cloves and some runic tablets
Skink root, canary feather


Rosethorn, mix ‘em all together
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah

