Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 6.14: Older and Far Away
[CHIME]
Jenny: Oh! Hey, everybody!
Kristin: Hello! Hi, Jenny. Hey—you know. Just last night, we hung out and we
watched a movie together, didn’t we?
Jenny: We did, we watched John Wick, my favorite…
Kristin: It’s your favorite—?
Jenny: Movie where something bad happens to a cute animal, but then, the animal
is avenged. To the max!
Kristin: I loved it, and it’s part of this month’s Feels Like the First Time. Joanna
Robinson and I are watching a bunch of Keanu Reeves movies in the month of May,
and Jenny joined for John Wick. We have one left. It’s happening tonight! So if you
listen to this podcast [Jenny gasps] the moment that it drops, you’ve gotten
warning here in the intro. Today, Wednesday, May 26th at 9 PM Eastern, we will be
watching—drum roll, please…
Jenny: [makes drum roll noise]
Kristin: The Matrix!
Jenny: Whoa!
Kristin: Yeah, all details on this very fun patron-only podcast can be found at
bufferingthevampireslayer.com/feelslike. I don’t even know what we’re doing for
June yet. I’ll probably know in the next couple of days. But I do know what we’re
doing for July. It’s Angelina July. Get it?
Jenny: Wow! [both laugh]
Kristin: Another event right around the bend is a live taping. A live taping of
Season 6—
Jenny: Hey!


Kristin: Episode 15. Hey, that’s the next episode, As You Were.
Jenny: Hmm. Ooh! With a very special guest star, mmm.
Kristin: [laughs] A very special guest star on the episode of television, not on the
podcast. I mean, who knows? Who knows who will show up? But probably, it’s just
gonna be me and Jenny.
Jenny: Probably just our dumbasses, yeah.
Kristin: Yeah, but we’re gonna have a good time. Thursday, June 3rd. That is at 8
PM Eastern, 5 PM Pacific. And it’s gonna be our last taping of the season, so if you
wanna see us talking in real time about anything in Season 6, and specifically about
this particular guest star, then this is your chance. Tickets are at
bufferingthevampireslayer.com/ticketing. Join us. Come hang out. Ooh, you have a
really easy time for your segment this week, Jenny.
Jenny: Well! The time has come, of course, for me to deliver unto thee the results
of the Sexual Tension Awards. A beautiful poll that we have every episode, where
you can cast your vote. These are the results for the episode Dead Things. No.
Kristin: No. We didn’t do a vote. Nope. No thank you.
Jenny: Inappropriate. Uncalled for.
Kristin: [laughs] A couple more—a couple more things to let you know before we
jump into today’s episode. We may never get out of this episode, as a matter of
fact. We’ll see what happens. [both laugh] But we mentioned at the top of Dead
Things that we are, you know, continuing to evolve with our antiracist work here in
the podcast space. And one of the ways that we’re doing that is by starting to
spotlight events. A conversation that we’ve been having as a team is sort of, we
can do things here, you know? Invisi-BIPOC was an incredible episode that Mack
and Alba did together, and Mack has hosted book clubs. And, you know, there are
things that we can lift here, but there are very brilliant people doing very brilliant
work in the communities that they’re working in and amongst. So we’re gonna use
our community here, we’re gonna spotlight things for you here. So we’re gonna be
having a team meeting here every month where our team brings ideas to the table
of really cool events that we can attend, that we can spotlight. And we’re beginning
that right now.
So Mack has brought a few really great events to the table, and you can find them
now on bufferingthevampireslayer.com/justkeepfighting. You’ll find all of our


antiracist work and commitments there. But you’ll start to see that this calendar is
going to grow, and you are more than welcome to email us,
bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com, with suggestions that you have. This is
intended to be varied, so we would love to hear about events that are celebratory
and happy and joyous. Artists—BIPOC artists, performers, things like this—those
are great. We also would love to hear about panels, conversations, educational
tools that we can all attend together as a community. Jenny and I just attended the
Hollaback bystander intervention training last week.
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: It was really incredible. And it was really nice to do with you, Jenny. It was
just—it was a really nice thing to share together. We talk about Buffy a lot, we talk
about antiracism a good amount. But to really, like, be there and learn some
practical tools of what to do…
Jenny: Yeah, I thought it was, like, very cool that they were sort of teaching
techniques to sort of bridge the gap. You know, you have—you see something
happening. You have the understanding that what’s happening is not okay. But
what are some ways that you can interface and, like, still feel safe yourself—you
know, like—
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: What’s your comfort zone? It was really awesome. Also? [Kristin laughs]
This is not the point but it was cohosted by a man who once played, like, a Disney
prince. And he was very charming. [laughs] Just a bonus.
Kristin: Yeah, we—if you have not attended the Hollaback bystander intervention
training, it’s free. If you have the funds to donate to Hollaback, please do. Because
the resources that we gathered in that free webinar were incredible and I will use
them and I know Jenny will use them as well.
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: So all that to say that we’d really like to crowdsource more things like this.
Some things will be free and accessible to all, just like the Hollaback event was. But
if you have events that are ticketed, you know, send them our way as well. And so
we’ll build out this calendar together. And there are a few events there right now.
Jenny: And the next thing coming up, chronologically speaking, is a panel that’s
gonna be put together by two organizations, Accompaniment and Sanctuary


Coalition Colorado Springs, and also, Colorado Immigrants’ Rights Coalition,
featuring some awesome panelists talking about what’s really happening at the
southern border of the United States.
Kristin: Yeah. And there’s two other events there. One is happening in August,
called Jubilee, a black feminist homecoming. We’ll be adding events, so we’re just
really excited. Really excited to be continuing the work together, really excited to
be crowdsourcing some things to spotlight as a community. Because I think, like—
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: If there’s anything that we do well here at Buffering the Vampire Slayer, it
is community building. And really, like, talking to each other about what’s going on
and what we can and should be celebrating, can and should be enjoying, can and
should be learning. So again, bufferingthevampireslayer.com/justkeepfighting. We
will continue to evolve with it. It’s—this is just the phase that we’re at right now.
The evolution—
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: The period of evolution that we have arrived at. Speaking of things that
are evolving, guess what, Jenny?
Jenny: Can I really guess?
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Are you asphyxiating—are you in danger of asphyxiating beneath the
somehow corporeal, very real weight of our email inbox?
Kristin: You know, I am. Thank you so much for recognizing my struggle sounds.
Jenny: Yeah. [both laugh] I’ve heard a lot of rustling, a lot of muffled, “help, help!”
Kristin: [laughs] Yes, so. We briefly brought mailbag episodes back into the main
feed here. You’ve heard some of them, they’re really fun. We are officially bringing
mailbags back into the Patreon space. Mailbag episodes will be—now, listen.
Mailbag episodes will be sent to our $10 patrons and higher. And the mail that we
read will be sourced from those patrons. A reminder, black and indigenous
listenership receives all of the digital perks. Which means that black and indigenous
listenership will get that prompt as well to send in emails, will get those episodes as
well. And we will continue to read an email at the top of every episode here. That’s


the plan. Still send us all our emails, we read them and we love them and we will
put some up in this intro here and in the intro to the episodes. But mailbag specifics
are gonna go back into the Patreon feed and patrons, if you’re over there, stay
tuned ‘cause you’ll get an email. You’ll get a little note about all of this and how to
submit and all that good stuff. Okay! I mean, I thought we might get stuck in the
episode, but jeez, we’re almost stuck in the intro. Let’s get the hell outta here!
Jenny: Yeah, yeah. Let’s get outta here!
[Buffering theme plays]
Jenny: Hello! And welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast where we
are watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer one by one,
spoiler free, in tandem with my number one crush with whom I have absolutely no
beef and only all the love in my heart to give, Angel On Top.
Kristin: Sounds like the words of an archnemesis to me!
Jenny: [laughs] I am…hopelessly devoted to Morgan and LaToya, and I’m Jenny
Owen Youngs!
Kristin: Uh, I am Kristin Russo. Big fan of Morgan and LaToya, but that often
happens when you have an archnemesis, you know? [Jenny laughs] The definition
of archnemesises [sic] is the battle between the deep love you have—
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: And the battle you feel within. Anyway.
Jenny: Ooh, tension!
Kristin: This week, we are talking about Buffy the Vampire Slayer—you may have
heard of her—Season 6, Episode 14, Older and Far Away. An episode where we
don’t have to cry the whole time! What a joy!
Jenny: Yay!
Kristin: Stay tuned at the end of this podcast, every other week, for an original
song written by Jenny Owen Youngs and sometimes also Kristin Russo, recapping
the Buffy episode that we are discussing.
Jenny: Older and Far Away was written by Drew Z. Greenberg—


Kristin: Who?
Jenny: And directed by Mike—[speaking slowly] Drew Z. Greenberg! [Kristin
laughs] And directed by Michael Gershman.
Kristin: Like, who are these guys? [laughs]
Jenny: I don’t know!
Kristin: What are they doing? [laughs]
Jenny: This episode originally aired on February 12th, 2002.
Kristin: Ah, two days before the Valentine’s Day of 2002.
Jenny: Mmm. [singsong] Where were you?
Kristin: Well, it was—I’m disappointed. Because the Valentine’s Day of 2003, I was
at the Chelsea Hotel with my brand new girlfriend, Jen Robicheaux, who bought me
a pair of diamond earrings!
Jenny: Oh my word!
Kristin: [simultaneously] Even though we had only been dating since December.
But we’ll have to wait a year—
Jenny: Wow!
Kristin: I know! It was an intense time in Lesbian Town. [Jenny laughs] But
anyway, it’s only 2002, so I probably wasn’t doing anything important. [laughs]
Jenny: I was in college. I can’t remember if I was dating somebody at this exact
time.
Kristin: Oh, please!
Jenny: Weeeee!
Kristin: Were you ever not dating somebody? Was there ever—


Jenny: Yeah, I mean, I was—[Kristin laughs] sorry, I should say. I’m almost 100%
sure I was dating someone. [Kristin laughs] But I would have to sit down and do
some, like, math and stuff to remember who precisely it was.
Kristin: This is the one where, after Dawn talks to a guidance counselor about
feeling lonely, she accidentally puts a spell on Buffy and her friends, trapping them
inside the Summers house, with a sword-wielding demon.
Jenny: There it is.
Kristin: There it is. Previously on Buffy the Vampire Slayer, Dawn steals, there’s a
character named Clem, there’s a character named Halfrek, Buffy was crying on
Tara. [laughs]
Jenny: Kitten poker.
Kristin: Yeah! Kitten poker? I hardly kitten know her. The famous quote—
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: From Jenny Owen Youngs. [laughs]
Jenny: Oh, wow. I thought—I was just, like, so delighted by what you said, I had
no recollection—[Kristin laughs] it sounds like something I would say, but I don’t
remember. [both laugh]
Kristin: Wow, nothing like telling someone’s joke back to them to their delight.
[both laugh]
Jenny: Well, I mean, hey, that’s the quality test.
Kristin: Yep, that’s true.
Jenny: Or just the consistency test. Buffy is, like, momming out! Mommin’ out all
over Dawn. Dawn just wants a nice, normal family dinner that is not interrupted!
Family dinnerus interruptus, yet another demon who cannot wait to be slain. Buffy
must go. I understand why, because this demon’s look? Is…confused.
Kristin: I mean, this whole thing—listen. This episode has—
Jenny: Honestly? Wait. I just watched my first episode of RuPaul’s Drag Race last
night.


Kristin: Oh, congratulations.
Jenny: Thank you. I love it. And watching this—rewatching this episode this
morning after that, I have to say, this demon has some kind of, like, high hair, drag
vibes.
Kristin: [laughs] Okay. I mean, listen, I wasn’t even gonna talk about the demon.
Jenny: Oops.
Kristin: I was just gonna talk about the, like…the general vibe of this episode. Like,
there’s stuff to talk about. I have lots of notes. But it is—
Jenny: Does it feel kind of like, disjointed and chaotic?
Kristin: Yes. It is so disjointed and, like, bizarre-o, especially with where we are.
This feels like an episode from Season 1 of Buffy the Vampire Slayer.
Jenny: Right? Just, [stiltedly] “oh, hello Dawn, my sister. [Kristin laughs] Gotta go
to the graveyard. Can’t wait. Must slay, goodbye.”
Kristin: Must slay unnamed demon. This demon doesn’t have a name, no back
story, we never learn about—
Jenny: But they’re, like, talking about him as though we should know—we should
know this guy—
Kristin: It’s just…
Jenny: We met him, but we were drunk.
Kristin: Yeah, it’s a little—
Jenny: Do you think maybe there was more of this episode that got snipped for
time? Like, a little more context?
Kristin: Maybe, or like…yeah, I don’t know. Maybe everybody just needed a break.
Jenny: [simultaneously] LaToya would know. If only my one true love, LaToya,
were here.


Kristin: [laughs] Yeah, she would know.
Jenny: [simultaneously] I’m confident that she would know.
Kristin: She would know. But yeah, so Buffy is—I just wanna note that Buffy is
wearing a bucket hat. And I believe a—
Jenny: Ha!
Kristin: Velvet coat?
Jenny: Ha-ha!
Kristin: So…
Jenny: No!
Kristin: Looking hot, going to the cemetery. And yeah, she gets there. Dawn’s
pissed. It must be Tuesday, because Dawn’s fucking mad. Dawn’s just mad.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: This is the episode where Dawn is mad.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And Buffy kills—well, doesn’t kill the demon, right? Buffy, like, stabs the
demon to—so our pals slash nemesises had a grand old time a couple of episodes
ago on Angel, when the graphics of Fred’s head being, like, cut off—
Jenny: Oh my god! [laughs]
Kristin: On the computer, flipping onto the demon. So this is, like, a moment that I
had here with this sword demon. Like, when the sword demon is stabbed by Buffy,
he turns into Alex Mack goo, like, straight-up.
Jenny: Yeah, he Alex-Macks right into the sword.
Kristin: And just—
Jenny: I mean, talk about Season 1. [laughs]


Kristin: Right. Well, it’s—you know what makes it, like, solidly Season 1? Is that,
not only does this goo zoop into the sword…
Jenny: [laughs] Goop zoop!
Kristin: Goop zoops right into the sword, but then we get to see the sword with the
tiny demon inside of it. [both laugh]
Jenny: Yeah, big Gachnar energy.
Kristin: [laughing] It’s just like—
Jenny: Seeing this demon inside the sword. And also very Season 1, Buffy, like,
doesn’t see this happen.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: She, like, looks up and assumes that the demon ran off in fear. Then she
sees the sword and is like, ooh, shiny!
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: High camp. High camp! High hair, high camp.
Kristin: High camp. High camp. Not to be confused with my high school theater
teacher, Mr. Heightcamp. This is high camp. [Jenny laughs] Credits. We go—oh my
god, I’m so excited, but we’re at the Magic Box. You know, I watched—it takes me
a while to do my watch of these episodes, because I pause at moments where I’m
like, perhaps there’s something fun for us to learn in this moment. And this was a
good pause for me here. We go to the Magic Box and we get a slug candle
reference, which is fun because we already had a whole big slug candle situation in
the episode with the zombie hand, right? Mummy hand, whatever.
Jenny: We sure did.
Kristin: [laughs] So, they’re talking about—oh. Something very important to note
is that it’s fucking Buffy’s birthday again. Which of course, is going to mean that
chaos will ensue. And they’re planning—[Jenny laughs] never to be—never to learn
from history here, they are going to plan a party for Buffy. And that’s why they’re
talking about candles. So Xander says, “Slugs even get turned off by slugs.” And I
thought, that’s kind of rude. I bet you—


Jenny: Rude!
Kristin: I bet you slugs would be upset if they heard the way that they are being
defamed here. And then I thought—
Jenny: Oh!
Kristin: I wonder how slugs have sex.
Jenny: Oh my gosh, did you happen to find an episode of Green Porno, starring
Isabella Rotman?
Kristin: Uh, I didn’t but I do know that it—
Jenny: Oh my god. Isabel—[laughs] Isabella Rotman.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Isabella Rotman.
Jenny: Isabella Rossellini! [laughs] Isabella Rossellini.
Kristin: I mean, to be fair, Isabella Rotman would totally do—
Jenny: Yeah. She would know.
Kristin: Also insect porno, yeah. No, I did not look up the Isabella Rossellini insect
porn for this. But I did find a BBC article that I would love to read to you, if it’s
not—
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: If it’s not too—if it’s not too intense for the listenership, I would like to
read to you—
Jenny: Ooh!
Kristin: This little snippet from an article by Michelle Douglass. Are you ready? I’m
reading it verbatim and we’re all gonna journey together. [clears throat]
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: This is about a leopard slug, specifically. “A leopard slug's huge blue-tinted
penis and upside-down reproductive acrobatics make for a colorful sex life. Twisting


their slimy bodies together, the large slugs dangle upside down from a glittering
rope of mucus, slowly rotating. Then, out of the molluscs’ head [sic] emerge large,
blue, tube-like growths that can wrap and writhe around each other. If you come
across this weird sight, you'd be forgiven for thinking the slug's wriggling blue
protrusions were some sort of parasite, or even emerging young. But what you’d
actually be witnessing is a mating ritual of a pair of amorous leopard slugs, and the
large blue tubes that grow out of the right side of the slugs’ heads are their
immense penises. Terrestrial slugs are hermaphrodites, so by wrapping their
penises around one another, leopard slugs fertilise each other’s eggs. Welcome to
the strange, sticky and sensational world of slug sex.”
Jenny: Uhhhhmmm…
Kristin: Their penises come out of their heads! Sound familiar? [both laugh]
Jenny: Yeah, that’s pretty wild.
Kristin: That’s pretty fucking wild, right?
Jenny: Pretty wild.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Um, yeah, for—to get further blasted with information, I would recommend
anyone listening to check out Isabella Rossellini’s—
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Green Porno series about insect—it started as insect mating. But I think it
eventually grew to expand the series into more of the animal kingdom.
Kristin: Oh my god.
Jenny: Worth a watch.
Kristin: Oh, it’s phenomenal. It’s fantastic. I will never forget the episodes of that
show that I have seen. Stunning. And so, you know, Xander. Back off on the slugs,
because I bet you you can’t dangle from a glittering rope of mucus. [laughs]
Jenny: Xander, you’ve never extended a penis out the right side of your head, not
once, ever! [Kristin laughs] Put up or shut up.


Kristin: So anyway. Thank you for humoring me, Jenny, and—
Jenny: My pleasure.
Kristin: I can’t really thank you, listeners, because—
Jenny: [simultaneously] And the slug’s pleasure.
Kristin: You didn’t have the opportunity to shut me up, so…
Jenny: Yeah. [both laugh]
Kristin: Anyway.
Jenny: You know what else is happening in this scene?
Kristin: Mm?
Jenny: We remember that currently on Angel, Tina Kennard has dropped in from
The L Word.
Kristin: I didn’t really wanna be reminded, but sure.
Jenny: I know, it’s such an enormous bummer. [laughs]
Kristin: I’m so upset about it all the time. [laughs]
Jenny: But in this scene, Dawn is wearing a shirt that has a gold, glittering Foxy
Brown logo on it.
Kristin: She does.
Jenny: That is the logo of the film, Foxy Brown, starring none other than Pam
Grier—
Kristin: Kit Porter, baby!
Jenny: Who plays Kit Porter on The L Word. I’m…growing uncomfortable. The walls
are close—[Kristin laughs] the walls but, like, with an L at the beginning of the word
“walls” that is silent—[both laughing] are closing in on me! I don’t want to be here!
I come here to relax! I come here to avoid The L Word!


Kristin: Do you know when Foxy Brown starring Pam Grier was released?
Jenny: I’m so glad you asked, because I am uniquely prepared to answer that
question. It came out in 1974.
Kristin: 1974. So by that math—and I’m—maybe this is very common knowledge.
But the rapper Foxy Brown took her name from the film Foxy Brown, then.
Jenny: Mm. Mmhmm, mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: Right? ‘Cause that’s what—
Jenny: One assumes.
Kristin: Yeah, when I saw this shirt, I was like, this is a rapper. But I was like, but
also, it’s something else because I know that this is not a shirt that is attached to
the rapper Foxy Brown. And there it all is, so there’s the loop-de-loop. Six degrees
of separation. We got you The L Word—Jenny is making a face of shock. What’s
going on?
Jenny: Did you know that Pam Grier also plays the titular character Jackie Brown in
the 1997 Quentin Tarantino film?
Kristin: Oh, I did. Yo, fucking Pam Grier is the shit. Pam Grier is…yeah. She’s a
fucking big deal. She’s amazing.
Jenny: Look at her go.
Kristin: The L Word was lucky to have her. [laughs] Actually—you know, this is
actually perfect. You moved us from Buffy the Vampire Slayer to Angel to The L
Word to Pam Grier. And now I’m gonna hop back to Buffy by way of The L Word,
because this is the most lesbian shit ever. Xander telling Willow that Buffy wants
Tara at her party!
Jenny: Oh my god. [laughs]
Kristin: Living, laughing, loving—[sings tune]
Jenny: Queer culture! Going to parties! [Kristin laughs] Is that it?
Kristin: So…yeah. I was—you know. There’s a couple of big queer culture moments
in this episode. This is one and [laughing] I can’t wait to get to the second. But this


is—at first I was like, rude, Buffy. Like, rude. You know? But then I, like, really
reflected on that and my feelings and was like, wow, Buffy wants to feel seen. And
the only person who can truly see her at this point is Tara, because Tara’s the only
one who knows her truth. It is her birthday. And then I thought, you know, queer
people are better than most at sort of working through their emotional feelings to
reach a place of healthy stasis. So perhaps—you know, perhaps Buffy, just on some
cellular level, [Jenny laughs and sighs] knew that if anyone could do this, it was the
two queer ladies on the show.
Jenny: Yeah, you had me at “healthy stasis.”
Kristin: [laughs] I don’t know where that came from. It was all the slug talk, I got
very sciencey. [laughs]
Jenny: Not only is it totally chill, but Willow is…stoked.
Kristin: Yeah, she is. I know, it’s so awkward when they get—okay, we’ll get there.
[laughs] Dawn wants to go to the mall. Everyone’s busy.
Jenny: Oh no, you can’t let a teen run around the mall, unsupervised. But more on
that later.
Kristin: Ugh, Dawn is just Winona Ryder’ing up and down this mall.
Jenny: [laughs] Willow, we learn, is in Spellcasters Anonymous? Though they
are…seeking a better name.
Kristin: Yeah. An interesting concept, because it means that there are many people
who are trying to recover from magic addiction like Willow.
Jenny: And they’re all in Sunnydale.
Kristin: [laughs] Maybe it’s virtual.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Which I guess…yeah. Oh, could be. They’re all on Zoom.
But—ooh! But it’s Broom, ‘cause they’re [Kristin laughs hard] in Spellcasters
Anonymous. [Kristin keeps laughing hard] Really? For that?
Kristin: Yep.
Jenny: Amazing. [both laugh] Okay. Anya’s putting Giles’s feather duster to good
use. [Kristin gasps] He clearly didn’t take that back to England with him. Nice.


Kristin: Oh my god, how did I miss that? I always, always—
Jenny: [simultaneously] Oh yeah, she’s dustin’.
Kristin: Spot the feather duster. And I fucking missed it. Yeah, so. Dawn goes to
the mall by herself, and we see a brief clip of her getting home. And she’s wearing
a stolen coat [Jenny gasps] and the pockets are full of stolen goods. [Jenny gasps
louder] Yes.
Jenny: Have you ever stolen a garment by putting it on underneath a garment?
I’m sure you’ve never stolen anything. But have you ever known anyone who stole
a garment by putting it on underneath another garment?
Kristin: I have never stolen a garment by putting it on underneath another
garment. I have known somebody who has and I have stolen things from the mall.
[Jenny gasps] [laughs] Mostly earrings.
Jenny: Ahh. This podcast does not…
Kristin: No!
Jenny: Condone theft of any kind. But you know. Sometimes you’re—
Kristin: I was a teen! I was a teen.
Jenny: [laughing] An unsupervised teen at the mall! This is what happens!
Kristin: [simultaneously] I was literally an unsupervised teen. [both laugh] And
also, like, it was not worth—I also stole cigarettes. Oh my god, that’s so—so
unsupervised teen of me.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: But those, I had to steal ‘cause I couldn’t buy them. Even if I had—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Wanted to do it the honest way, they were illegal for me, so.
Jenny: Out of your reach.


Kristin: [laughs] Anyway.
Jenny: We see Dawn at school the next day getting called out of class to the
guidance office. I love how this person just interrupts the teacher from outside of
the classroom and is like, [babbles] “We need Dawn at the guidance office!
Blahhh!” Like—[laughs]
Kristin: Also, I’m sorry. A little, like, sensitivity training for the fucking school here.
Like, they should fucking know that Dawn was called out of class to be told that her
mother had died. Like, maybe there’s a better way—
Jenny: Oh, yeah. Mmhmm! Yes, correct.
Kristin: Also, where do they go to high school?
Jenny: It’s very mysterious, Kristin.
Kristin: [laughs] Okay, and also—
Jenny: [simultaneously] It’s very mysterious! [laughs]
Kristin: How did fucking Halfrek get a fucking office in the school? Like, what is
happening here? This is what I’m talking about with this episode. Halfrek just, like—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Strolled in, sat down at a desk and said, “I’m the new guidance counselor,
can you please get me Dawn Summers?”
Jenny: Put a pin—put a long, sturdy pin [Kristin laughs] in the conversation around
what the Sunnydale sending district gets up to with regard to guidance counselors.
[Kristin laughs] Just put a pin in it.
Kristin: Put it in your Shanshu prophecies—
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: But in the Buffy section? Okay.
Jenny: That’s—[both laugh] yeah, somehow…Halfrek, who we are not meant to
know is Halfrek yet—


Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Has conned her way into her own office. And I have to say, she’s a very
convincing, very compelling guidance counselor. I was ready to tell her my family
secrets.
Kristin: Yo, same. That manicure, man. It’s all the manicure. The manicure is
really what made me wanna tell all my secrets to her. It was so nice.
Jenny: Yeah, and the most important part of her job? Is looking out for us. We
wayward youth, stealing cigarettes.
Kristin: I mean, you know, her and Doris have a lot in common, you know? Like,
Doris and fucking Halfrek—
Jenny: Mmm. Of course, Doris.
Kristin: Yeah. They’re trying to look out for Dawn, Dawn’s best interests. Dawn
makes a wish. “People have a tendency to go—” this is, like—you know, we jest, we
joke. Dawn is always wah-wah-wah’ing, blah-blah-blah. But like, Dawn—I think
we’ve also given, like, good voice to the fact that Dawn has moved through massive
amounts of trauma. And the fact that she gives voice to it even for a moment here
is nice. It’s nice to, like, see her be able to share even the tiniest bit of her pain.
And she says, “People have a tendency to go away, and I miss them. I wish I could
make them stop going away.” When you, like, really—
Jenny: Oh, noo!
Kristin: I know. When you, like, really listen to those words, they are quite
heartbreaking. And really, really fucking true. Like, this is—she has suffered so
much loss and has not been given the tools, nor anyone else. You know, they all
really need a fucking guidance counselor. A good guidance counselor is needed for
this group. [laughs] So, anyway.
Jenny: Yeah, a little bit of—honestly, happy to see a little bit of therapy roll up on
the group.
Kristin: Right? Even if it’s a vengeance demon, we’ll take—we’ll fucking take it!
[laughs]
Jenny: We will. Okay. It’s party time.


Kristin: Excellent.
Jenny: Buffy reveals that she invited Sophie from work.
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah, she did.
Jenny: Sophie from work is…so…
Kristin: Sophie from work is queer culture. [laughs]
Jenny: Sophie from work is so close to my heart. And I love her.
Kristin: Sophie from—I’m skipping ahead, for queer culture [Jenny cackles] ‘cause
I can’t hold it in anymore. Fucking, Sophie walks in and is like, “My mom told me to
say thank you right away so I wouldn’t forget, and here’s a list of the things I
cannot eat.” Sophie is queer culture.
Jenny: Okay, so in your mind, queer culture—okay. Dietary restrictions? Definitely
queer culture.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: “My mom said?” What’s—tell me more about that.
Kristin: Well, it’s mostly the dietary restrictions. [Jenny laughs] But it’s also just,
like, the general—like, the general ownership of awkwardness that Sophie brings in
with her. You know? That, like—it’s not that, like, she says “my mom told me.” It’s
just that she, like, does what her mom told her to do and she doesn’t seem
embarrassed by it whatsoever.
Jenny: Yep.
Kristin: It’s just her general presence in the room. Plus the diet—the dietary
restrictions is really what put it over the top for me. I used to direct camp for many,
many queer people. And let me tell you that one of the biggest things to navigate
was dietary restrictions. We’ve got a lot of them.
Jenny: Sure.
Kristin: We’ve got a lot of them—
Jenny: Oh, yeah.


Kristin: As a community, okay?
Jenny: [sighs] Okay. So Xander and Anya reveal they’ve also invited someone: a
boy! For Buffy!
Kristin: Why? This is horrible. Why did they do this?
Jenny: I mean. In their defense, he is a cute, nice boy.
Kristin: He’s fucking fine.
Jenny: But in everyone else—as a voice of the people, of listenership of this pod.
We have—if we’ve learned one thing, it’s that cute, nice boys are not what we
wanna see Buffy with.
Kristin: No, but I just think, like—okay, here’s the thing. Like, healthily speaking, if
you’re friends with somebody who, you know, has like, lost her first love because
he was an ensouled vampire who she, like, had to kill but then he was alive but
then they couldn’t have sex and then he moved to Los Angeles—
Jenny: Mmm. Mmm!
Kristin: And then she was, like, you know, with somebody else and that guy was,
like, part of an initiative and, like—
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: He flew away while she was chasing after him. [both laugh] And then, like,
she died and then, like, you brought her back to life. I would just, like, suggest—
Jenny: Sure, sure, sure.
Kristin: I would gently suggest that you say, “We have this nice guy we know. We
would love for you to meet him. When’s a good time?” You know what I mean?
Instead of, like—
Jenny: Sure, but—
Kristin: “We invited him to your birthday party.” That’s all I’m asking.


Jenny: They also know Buffy and they know that Buffy would say “never would be
a good time.” And Anya just wants—
Kristin: [simultaneously] And she would be correct.
Jenny: Anya wants Buffy to bang it out! She thinks—
Kristin: That’s the thing. That’s the thing. No. [Jenny laughs] Anya does not want
Buffy to bang it out. Anya wants—
Jenny: Oh!
Kristin: Anya wants a fucking double date, and she fucking says it herself.
Jenny: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: She’s like, maybe you’ll meet and get married and have babies, and then
we can go on double-dates and Xander and I will finally have somebody to talk to.
[laughs]
Jenny: Honestly? What if Anya just cut out the middle man—Buffy—and invited
Richard into a throuple. So she could—
Kristin: I assumed that that’s how they met Richard before I realized—
Jenny: Nice.
Kristin: [both laughing] That Xander worked—
Jenny: He’s from the work site.
Kristin: Yeah. I realized that after, but at first I was like, how do they know
Richard? Probably they had a threesome with Richard, you know? I mean—which
isn’t off the table.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Well, we know he’s good with—he must be good with
tools.
Kristin: I mean, he seems like he is good with tools. You know? Not with scissors—
Jenny: I’m talking about…


Kristin: He could fucking—yeah, I know what you’re talking about.
Jenny: Okay. [both laugh]
Kristin: Jesus Christ. I might only be a level 720, but I can catch your references,
[Jenny laughs] thank you very much.
Jenny: Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay. So. In other news, Tara arrives and asks
Buffy how she’s doing and if Spike is coming. Very supportive.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Love to see the Tara/Buffy friendship.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Just simply love to see it. Willow is upstairs getting dressed very carefully.
Willow comes down the stairs sometime after Tara says the word “gulp” out loud.
[Kristin laughs] And Buffy, always eternally very, very cool and collected, is like,
“Bleh! Oh! Hello! Will, I—why—someone’s calling me! [Kristin laughs] Did you hear
that?” and runs away. [both laugh]
Kristin: Yeah, and then Willow and Tara have this, like, very delightfully awkward
exchange, telling each other they look nice. “You got a new shirt.” You know, like,
of course, Willow would notice this because they know each other’s wardrobes
probably from sharing them.
Jenny: “You look—thanks. Great. Thanks. You do too. Is that a new—yes. It’s nice.
Thanks.” [both laugh] Verbatim. That’s the words on the page.
Kristin: [laughs] So Tara’s like, I’m gonna go get a drink. And then, like, Willow—
Jenny: And then, like, chugs water. [laughs] And is like, ugh!
Kristin: Well, before—[laughing] yeah. Also, yes, that. [Jenny laughs] But before
she gets to the kitchen, we hear Willow, like, fully pull an “I carried a watermelon
moment.” [Jenny laughs] Where she’s like, “Yeah. You don’t wanna get thirsty”
[both laughing] as she walks away. So. It’s good, it’s good. I like it, you know.
Jenny: Wow.


Kristin: That’s what I said. This episode as a whole, mm, I give it a thumb’s down.
But as a—as moments within the episode, I have enjoyed myself.
Jenny: Speaking of watermelon and clear drinks, have you ever taken a
watermelon, punched a bunch of holes in it, and then funnelled vodka into the
watermelon and then eaten the vodka watermelon?
Kristin: I’ve heard of this. I’ve eaten the watermelon. I have not myself funnelled
the vodka into the holes.
Jenny: Well! Me neither. In fact, I’ve never had a drink in my life. Moving on.
Kristin: [laughs] So, okay. Spike is here. Tara has, like you said, just chugged
some water for the sweet release that it will offer her. [both laugh]
Jenny: Yeah. Oh, just a little water to take the edge off. [both laugh hard]
Kristin: Spike arrives with a six-pack of beer. And I’m not gonna go too far down
this rabbithole, but I do have questions about how beer and alcohol in general
affect vampires and how that works. Because…wouldn’t you think that to get drunk,
they would need to drink blood that had alcohol in it?
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: Like, it doesn’t seem like their body could digest and metabolize just the
alcohol.
Jenny: Um…according to the parameters of this show. We see vampires eat and
drink stuff, and it doesn’t affect them. If you’re thinking of [laughs] the biological
lore of the What We Do in the Shadows verse—
Kristin: Oh. Yeah.
Jenny: Where if even a crumb of food passes the lips [Kristin laughs] of a vampire,
they, like, projectile vomit so hard that it, like, propels them [Kristin laughs] 20 feet
in the air and—
Kristin: [simultaneously] Oh, what a great show.
Jenny: They, like, whip around like a balloon that has been punctured. [laughs] It’s
amazing.


Kristin: It’s such a good show. If you haven’t watched that show, stop listening to
this podcast right now. Go watch that show. But yeah, no, I just—
Jenny: You know, we see in I Will—I think in I Will Remember You, when Angel’s
going nuts eating the ice cream?
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: He’s like, you know, we can eat but it’s just, like, less exciting. Like, the
flavor is damped down. So I wonder if you have to drink or can drink more alcohol
without getting messy, if you’re a vampire, if the impact is tamped down.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Yeah, that’s more what I mean. Like, I know they can
consume it. I just don’t really understand—like, I know—you know, we know that
Spike likes to sprinkle stuff in his blood to give it various flavors. And I get that—
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: But like, I just scientifically don’t understand how the—because the thing
that came into my mind was—
Jenny: We also know that Spike likes to do things just to look cool. So it could be
that.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Yeah, that—correct, right. He can’t breathe, he smokes.
He can’t consume alcohol for any effect, he still drinks. So yeah. I think that’s the
reason.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: “I’m…Clement.” Clem—
Jenny: Clement!
Kristin: [high pitched] “I’m Clement,” he says. Ugh, god, we love Clem. This is a
podcast that is—
Jenny: Yeah, look at Clem. He’s the best.
Kristin: Just in love with Clem. And then our red shirt arrives, Mr. Richard.


Jenny: [laughing] Our red shirt! Wow. Somebody’s been catching up on…[Kristin
laughs] fucking genre entertainment. Richard needs, quote, help, quote, parking,
quote, his car, wink. Wink, wink, wink, wink, wink. Buffy will show you. Spike is
unimpressed or very committed to putting off the appearance of being very
unimpressed.
Kristin: Dude, “where should I park?” is the most ridiculous fucking thing that this
guy could need help with.
Jenny: They. Live. In. A. Sleepy little town.
Kristin: [stammering] There’s a fucking—you can park literally anywhere, man.
Just—
Jenny: [simultaneously] Street parking. Driveway parking. Parking, parking,
parking.
Kristin: Jenny, since you sort of poked friendly fun at my red shirt comment, do
you wanna tell—what if people don’t know what a red shirt is?
Jenny: Oh, sure, sure, sure. A red shirt is somebody who’s kind of expendable, not
necessarily part of the core cast. And it comes from Star Trek. You remember Jean
Luc Picard? [Kristin laughs] And…all the other ones? Wesley. You know, they’ve got
their little blue outfits. They’ve got their little gold outfits. But then there’s people in
the background, extras, milling about. If a laser is going to pierce anyone’s flesh,
it’s probably theirs. [Kristin laughs] They’re wearing red shirts.
Kristin: Yes. I just—I’m rewatching Lost and I just watched the episode where the
science teacher explodes. And I was like, oh! That’s totally a red shirt. He’s a red
shirt. He’s the character that, like, let us know the danger of carrying the dynamite
without us having to lose any of our core cast. He was not wearing an actual red
shirt, but he was a red shirt. [Jenny cackles] So. Listen, I’m gonna call it right here
and I’m gonna say that this might be Tara’s best episode. This is—I am gonna play
some serious sound clips from Tara. And I’m gonna start here where Tara is
speaking to Clem and Spike about Richard.
[Clip from episode plays]
Tara: I don’t know. He seemed…cute. W-was he cute? I mean, I’m not a
very good judge, but I think he seemed cute.
Clem: I think he seemed cute.


Jenny: This is Tara’s best episode, tied maybe with Dead Things and also with The
Body. As I said, my favorite use of Tara—
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Is this very unique friendship between her and Buffy. Unique for Buffy, you
know?
Kristin: Yeah. And, like, Tara—right. I mean, Tara has had incredible episodes in
terms of, like, being—like, healthily showing up for people, notably Buffy.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: But the reason that this—
Jenny: And also moving vending machines with her mind, sure.
Kristin: True, true. But this episode, it’s like, Tara has, like, found some inner
fucking strength in this breakup—
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And you can see her wielding it. I mean, she just has so many good
moments, especially with Spike, in this episode. And I love it—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: I love it so much for her.
Jenny: I also love Clem agreeing that Richard is indeed cute.
Kristin: [laughing] Yes!
Jenny: Hell yes, Clem!
Kristin: Clem! Ugh! Dawn is in the living room, being infantilized by Anya, [Jenny
laughs] who is just like, “You couldn’t understand anything” and, like, patting her
on the head—
Jenny: Oh, no.


Kristin: Just to drive it home.
Jenny: Oh, no! [laughs]
Kristin: Ugh, meanwhile, Spike is in the fucking hallway telling Buffy that she can
blow out his candles. Sir.
Jenny: Oh my word!
Kristin: Sir!
Jenny: I just—I…yeah. Yeah!
Kristin: [laughs] Nothing—you got nothing to add there?
Jenny: I just—you know, time and place, Spike, time and place.
Kristin: Time and place. This is—I will say that, like, you know, we have to
navigate through so much mutually abusive stuff with Spike and Buffy, that this
episode is enjoyable in that it’s mostly just, like, Spike being really jealous of
Richard. And, like, you know, being very obvious about how jealous he is of
Richard. And I—
Jenny: But also, like, when Buffy calls him out about being jealous, there’s
something more there. Like, Buffy is having a good—she’s, like—
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Enjoying Spike’s jealousy.
Kristin: She is. She is. This is—you know, I just realized that we just came off of
Couplet in Angel. And Couplet is an episode that’s entirely about Angel being so
jealous of the Groosalugg. So it’s fun that we’ve got a little Spike, we got a little
Angel. [Jenny laughs] Oh, the vamps are feeling jealous!
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: What did you just find out, Jenny?
Jenny: I was just looking ahead in my notes. Are you ready? Are you ready to
fucking buckle up?


Kristin: [laughs] Oh! Listen, I’m ready. [Jenny cackles] I have to educate the
children who listen to this podcast. Yeah, go ahead, bring us in.
Jenny: Ohh…my…god! “Happy birthday, Buffy.” [Kristin laughs] Willow gives Buffy
a battery-operated body massager. For all her little acheys. Instant gratification for
all her little acheys.
Kristin: Portable, so she can take it with her on patrol.
Jenny: Uhhhhhmmm…
Kristin: Meanwhile, Spike is, like, raising one eyebrow, like, “I know what a
vibrator is.” Okay, bud, we get it. [Jenny cackles] I would just like to let you know,
if you’re a younger person who was watching this show and you’re thinking, wow, is
that what vibrators looked like in 2002? No. It is not. This is a gigantic back
massager. I believe it would be a little bit large to use in any kind of effective
sexual manner, but we’re gonna go with the gag.
Jenny: Yes. Is the Sharper Image still a store?
Kristin: In my mind, in my heart, it is.
Jenny: I feel like this came from the Sharper Image, from the battery-operated
massager section—
Kristin: Definitely.
Jenny: Featuring a variety of battery-operated massagers in different sizes.
Kristin: Do you think that, like—’cause I wondered why. Like, this joke would have
made more sense if it was a smaller back massager. And so I just wondered if, like,
they were going for—like, if the comedy was rooted in the size of it. Or if, like, they
couldn’t use a smaller one for, like, network reasons. [laughs] Like, I don’t know!
Jenny: I don’t know, man.
Kristin: Yeah, me neither.
Jenny: But the world sure has changed. I was in Walgreens the other day, getting
vaccinated, and do you know what I saw?
Kristin: What?


Jenny: Right above the KY?
Kristin: What?
Jenny: Fucking actual, legit vibrators for sale at Walgreens.
Kristin: What?!
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: What?!
Jenny: In, like, small-town Maine. Not in, like, New York City.
Kristin: I’m sorry, even in New York City, it was not at all on my radar that
vibrators were being openly sold in fucking pharmacies.
Jenny: I—I—this is my only—I haven’t done any additional research. I don’t know
if this Walgreens is the exception or the rule. But be advised.
Kristin: Was it like, here’s the KY and here are some back massagers. Or was it
like—
Jenny: No.
Kristin: It was, like, full—
Jenny: No.
Kristin: Like, directly, this is a vibrator.
Jenny: Yeah. There was no mistaking [Kristin laughs] the intended use.
Kristin: Wow! I mean, I’m impressed. I’m here for it. Vibrators for everyone, you
know? Just like Oprah says.
Jenny: Yeah. She always is saying that.
Kristin: [simultaneously] A vibrator for you and you…
Jenny: Uh-huh. [both laugh]


Kristin: And you. Anyway.
Jenny: Okay, then. Okay. Everyone’s thinking about Buffy and her needs, and
Dawn, this birthday season, is thinking, what does Buffy need? [Kristin laughs]
What does she not have enough of? What could Buffy really use? I know. A leather
jacket. For her leather jacket collection.
Kristin: Yeah, it was a toss-up between—
Jenny: She has so many leather jackets! [both laugh]
Kristin: It was a toss-up between a leather jacket or a cross necklace, you know?
Which one am I gonna get?
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah. Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: Yeah, but it’s—it’s sweet and complicated. And, like, that’s one of the little
jewels, I think, in this episode, is that—like, these moments—Dawn has good, good
writing in this episode. Because, like, even the fact that she’s so mad and she’s so
sad and she feels so alone. But some of the acting out that she’s doing in response
to those feelings of loss is still centering around what she really thinks Buffy would
like. And you can see—like, she says, “I was so afraid you wouldn’t like it.” Like,
she wanted her to like it so much.
Jenny: Mm, mmhmm, mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: It’s really—it’s painfully beautiful and I think it’s well done.
Jenny: And this—this leather jacket has one thing that all of Buffy’s other leather
jackets don’t have.
Kristin: It’s true.
Jenny: And that is a security tag still attached to it. Hmm, what could it all mean?
Kristin: Before we think too much about security tags. Remember those ones that,
like, if you jiggled it too much, it would squirt ink all over whatever it was? [both
laugh]
Jenny: Yeah.


Kristin: It seems so counterintuitive—
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: For everyone involved. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah, try to steal our products and we will destroy them so neither you nor
we can enjoy them. [both laugh]
Kristin: Hashtag capitalism. [both laugh]
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: So. So, I almost cried. I almost cried an actual tear in this next gift-giving
scene. Because Xander has, with his hands, created a wooden weapon chest for
Buffy.
Jenny: Awww!
Kristin: And it is really beautiful and it is really sweet—
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: And thoughtful and just—I don’t know. It just felt like this moment to me
of…Xander is often the character who’s kind of, like, hanging in the background.
And you think, like, oh, it’s fucking Xander. He’s not paying attention. He’s not
doing this, he’s not doing that. And you know, I just love these moments where we
see, like—actually, for a lot of the last few episodes, Xander has been participating
in the episode and also going home at night and working on this wooden chest for
Buffy.
Jenny: Aw, yeah!
Kristin: Right? And like, that is powerful.
Jenny: Also, I’m just realizing they’re like, “Mmm, this brand new custom
handmade weapons chest for your regular weapons and your not-so-regular
weapons.” And like, Richard and Sophie are there.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Like, what do they think?


Kristin: I don’t know. It’s just like a big play on—actual—actually, Sophie is not yet
there.
Jenny: Mm!
Kristin: But Richard is there. And—
Jenny: Sorry.
Kristin: I think it’s just plausible deniability. You know? Just like—
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: Everyone else in Sunnydale, they turn the other way. They believe—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Only what they choose to believe. And Xander does say that he made
room for CDs, so that’s probably what Richard hears. Oh, a CD case, beautiful.
[both laugh] So in comes Sophie. I’ve already shouted about how much I love
Sophie and her entrance. I love everything about Sophie. Sophie rules. I would like
to hang out with Sophie.
Jenny: Hell yeah.
Kristin: Anya disagrees. [laughs] “Our friend is better,” says Anya. [laughs]
Jenny: Rude!
Kristin: Rude.
Jenny: Sophie is freaking adorable, I love her.
Kristin: Yeah. And then we get the reveal on the porch that the guidance counselor
is actually Halfrek. She says, “Wish granted!”
Jenny: Oh my god! Nice little shot of Clem dancing.
Kristin: Yo. Clem and Sophie!
Jenny: And then Anya is just hand-dancing from the couch—


Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Which I think is also very respectable.
Kristin: Yeah, I loved Anya’s hand dance. I wrote it in my notes.
Jenny: Dawn, looking pleased as a little fuckin’…metallic, squishy container of Capri
Sun. Pleased as punch, but Capri Sun.
Kristin: Wow. Richard sees Buffy in the hallway, and is like, “I just can’t seem to
tear myself away.” [Jenny cackles] Spike is, like, lurking behind him, watching this
whole exchange. And then Buffy’s like—
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: “Anyway, I’m gonna go, like, to the other room.” And Richard, in his finest
moment, says, “I’ll look for you.” Dude.
Jenny: Dude. Dude.
Kristin: Dude. [laughs]
Jenny: Dude. No, Richard. Also, there’s—there’s a bunch of different music used
throughout the night. I think we, like, eventually hear the Cranberries and some
other stuff. But here, as Buffy and Richard talk in the hall and as Clem dances up a
storm, the music really reminds of the [sings jazzy tune]—
Kristin: [simultaneously] Oh! When she was washing dishes?
Jenny: [simultaneously] From the episode with that…yes, exactly.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: It’s, like, similarly like, what sync music house cooked this up [Kristin
laughs] for good—for the “good times” party music folder? [both laugh]
Kristin: So…Richard leaves. He’s gonna look for Buffy at the club, slash [laughing]
this house.
Jenny: [laughs] The living room.


Kristin: And Spike is like, “unnnhh! Buffy! I think I’m in love!” because he’s
jealous. Jealous is a hilarious look on Spike.
Jenny: Yeah. Yes.
Kristin: And Tara walks in! Oh, boy. Oh, boy. They are leaned up against the wall
and we are led to believe that perhaps Buffy’s hand is somewhere…on Spike’s
pants.
Jenny: Because he had a muscle cramp! [Kristin laughs quietly] He had a muscle
cramp and Buffy was helping him, Kristin. Get your mind out of the gutter.
Kristin: Amber Benson’s acting in this scene is fantastic. Her, like, delight at
catching them. [Jenny laughs] Like, she can’t hide it and I love that. And then the
fact that she’s, like, fully calling Spike out when he’s trying to be like, “It was a
muscle cramp.” And she’s like, um? A muscle cramp [Jenny clears throat] in
your…pants?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: So, nobody can leave. They wanna get beer, they can’t leave. We’re in
game night. They’re playing Monopoly—
Jenny: [laughs] Clem—Clem’s take on poker. “It’s weird without the kittens.”
[Kristin laughs] He doesn’t know what to do without the kittens.
Kristin: I love that Tara’s playing poker. Like, that she’s part of the poker quartet
over here, it’s enjoyable.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: Spike makes some other comment about sex. And Tara—this is what I’m
talking about, man. Tara: “How’s that cramp, Spike? Maybe you wanna put some
ice on it.” [Jenny laughs] Fucking zing! Zing-zing! She’s all over the place in this
episode, I love it. Go, Tara, go.
Jenny: Anya wants the Monopoly game to continue so she can bankrupt someone.
Kristin: [laughing] Of course, typical.
Jenny: [laughs] Oh, Anya.


Kristin: I actually—we’ll get there, in the conversation. But I have some issues
with some of the choices made for Anya’s character here. I don’t—I think Anya
acts—
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: A bit out of character in this episode.
Jenny: Mmm! Mmhmm.
Kristin: But Dawn and Clem, watching some cartoons, because we have made it
through the night and had a sleepover. No one has left.
Jenny: It’s true. Richard’s like, “Xander, we gotta get to work, like, in a few
minutes.”
Kristin: [simultaneously] Spike’s like, “Yo, I wanna eat Richard.” [both laugh]
What?
Jenny: That’s one way to eliminate the competition.
Kristin: Oh my god.
Jenny: Eat them!
Kristin: Yeah, also, Spike is like—
Jenny: [simultaneously] Buffy: “We do not joke about eating people in this house!”
[both laugh]
Kristin: A good line. A good line.
Jenny: Cross-stitch it and hang it on the wall, damnit.
Kristin: Ooh! That would be a great thing to have a cross-stitch. I love that. So
Willow and Tara are in the kitchen, bonding over their shared feeling around the
curse of being stuck in a house. Spike and Buffy realize that also they’re trying to
leave and can’t, and this is when everyone sort of is like, okay. Something’s up. So
a group meeting is called in the living room.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm, mmhmm. How could you be Dawn in this position? How
could you be Dawn in this position and be like, oh, people physically can’t leave the


house. [whiny] “Well, why do they wanna leave so bad? Why do they all wanna go
away from me? Meh!” Dawn, you’re trapped in your house too! You can’t go to
Janice’s house for taco night!
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah. Dawn is—Dawn is, like, metaphorically stomping. And then,
to the delight of me, literally stomping. [both laugh] “Sure, of course you wanna
leave!” Willow, not helping things by being like, “We have important things to do.”
Like—[laughs]
Jenny: Oh my god, yeah. They all find really, like, shitty—the shittiest possible
way—
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: To say what they’re trying to say. But it’s literally just a practical concern.
What about groceries?
Kristin: Right. So Dawn is like, stomp, stomp, stomp, stomp, stomp! [Jenny
laughs] And they all follow her up the stairs. Literally, all—like, all of them.
Jenny: And Xander’s like, “Hey! We’ve all been there. Sometimes you find a little
musical amulet. [Kristin laughs] [mumbling] Sometimes you fucking involve the
[inaudible] powers of a musical demon who comes to seek a child bride, I don’t
know, it just happens! Stuff happens. Just be honest with us.”
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah, Xander—Xander also, like, doing a great job here. You
know? Hey—hey, bud. Listen, you were upset we wanted to leave and now we can’t
leave. We’re just asking you if maybe—he makes a Children of the Corn reference.
And then Dawn still in stomp-stomp mode—
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: Is like, [moodily] “I’m glad you’re stuck!” And then—
Jenny: [laughs] [moodily] “How else can I get anyone to spend any time with me?
Meh!”
Kristin: And then—[laughing]
Jenny: I mean, we also are sad for Dawn. But—[laughs] it’s so over the top.


Kristin: [laughing] Yeah, but I mean, Dawn. She’s like—gets very mad at them.
And I’m gonna play a sound clip and then we’ll talk about it, okay? Let’s hear what
Dawn has to say at the end of this scene.
[Clip from episode plays]
Buffy: Dawn. If you want us to spend time with you—
Dawn: I don’t. Get out. [screams] Get out, get out, get out!
Jenny: Have we heard her scream “get out, get out, get out” before, or do I just
have this burned into my memory?
Kristin: No, so we—
Jenny: She does it in Season 5. Sometime.
Kristin: She does it in Season 5 and get this. So she does it in Season 5. This very
similar “get out, get out, get out,” she’s saying it to Joyce and Buffy in Season 5.
Jenny: Mmm.
[Clip from Season 5: Blood Ties plays]
Dawn: Get out, [screams] get out, get out!
Kristin: The episode is Blood Ties, and it is also Buffy’s birthday episode of Season
5.
Jenny: What! What!
Kristin: I know. [makes siren sound]—or how do you make a spooky noise? That’s
a siren. [laughs]
Jenny: Uh…[laughs]
Kristin: [spookily] Wooooo!
Jenny: There you go. [both laugh]
Kristin: Anya, downstairs: “I think she’s possessed.” Xander: “She’s just a
teenager.” [laughs] Yeah, fair. Fair on all counts.


[AD BREAK]
Kristin: So I was gonna ask you a question, Jenny, about Halfrek’s vengeance spell
here. Because I’m wondering if, in the vengeance spell, the phones were mystically
cut. Or if, like, Halfrek did the spell but then went to the back of the house and just
cut the line. [both laugh]
Jenny: I like the idea of Halfrek with some wire cutters, but I think it’s a mystical
phone line severing.
Kristin: Mystical—AT&T cannot help us here.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: [laughs] Buffy is like, Dawn’s—like, Buffy is seeing how angry Dawn is for
what feels like the first time. You know, she’s so mad. Yes, she is so mad, she’s
been very mad. Everyone is too traumatized to see anyone else’s trauma. Buffy is
like, “We need magic.” Tara: “I don’t have supplies.” Willow: “I kept a few things
just in case.”
Jenny: Urgh!
Kristin: Everyone is so mad at Willow. And this is, again, messy metaphor,
because Willow was correct. [laughs] They needed the magic beans that Tara is
using to make this spell.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Yeah, so hard to be mad at Willow—
Kristin: And Willow saved a can of magic beans. So—
Jenny: Yeah. Good job, Willow, I guess? It’s very complicated. Also, the misuse of
magic metaphor crumbling around the idea of, “I saved some in case we would
need it to fight evil.”
Kristin: Right. Right, exactly. Exactly. I mean, literally exactly. Like, and the same
thing when we get to the scene with Anya later, which is an upsetting scene. But
it’s also just like, but—they—you would never be in a position where beer could
save the contents of a household.
Jenny: Yeah.


Kristin: That doesn’t—you know, it just—it falls a little bit apart here. But
regardless, Tara makes her little black bean burger patty that’s for the magic. And
she sets it on fire and she says, “Release.” [Jenny laughs] It’s beans. Those are
beans. Did they not look like beans to you?
Jenny: [clears throat] Um. Well. Beans or no beans, the spell works but not in the
way we were all hoping. Oh, no. [laughs]
Kristin: It releases alright. It releases the fucking Alex Mack sword demon from his
sword. And immediately, he’s like, there’s the guy in the red shirt! [laughs] He’s the
one I’m supposed to stab! And Richard gets stabbed. [Jenny sighs] Do you call it
“getting stabbed” when it’s with a sword?
Jenny: Well, sure. I mean. I think he more gets slashed than stabbed.
Kristin: That’s true. That’s true.
Jenny: Thank god we’re sorting this out. Swording this out.
Kristin: Pffft! [both laugh]
Jenny: This demon is even less convincing in the sobering light of day.
Kristin: Like, what is his point? What does he want? Like—Spike says at one point,
like, he comes back when he’s feeling a bit peckish. Like, for murder? Like, what is
the—[Jenny laughs] come on, guys.
Jenny: Mmm, I’m hungry for murder!
Kristin: [laughs] Smells like—what the fuck did that vampire say?
Jenny: Mmm, “I smell fear! It smells good!” [both laugh] Classic.
Kristin: So we sort of transition from one scene to the next here with—I thought it
was Anya saying “oh god, oh god” and then—but then Sophie is saying “oh god, oh
god” at the window. So—
Jenny: Hey. Everyone can say “oh god” in this episode.
Kristin: Well, I just—the reason that I ask—
Jenny: Things are not going well.


Kristin: [clears throat] The reason that I ask our listenership is just because it
seemed out of character for Anya to be like, “oh god, oh god.” Just because she’s a
fucking vengeance demon.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: She’s seen more than a sword-slash in her life. But anyway. You can sort
that out amongst—you can sword that out amongst yourselves.
Jenny: Nice! Very nice!
Kristin: Thank you! So. Hey, Spike has an idea.
[Clip from episode plays]
Spike: So, you ever think about not celebrating your birthday? Just to try it,
I mean.
Jenny: This is a great idea.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Have you ever thought about it?
Kristin: Have you ever thought about—we’re in Season 6, motherfucker. [laughs]
Jenny: What if just on Halloween and your birthday, you leave town every year?
Kristin: [laughs] Yes!
Jenny: Just an idea!
Kristin: Pack your shampoo and conditioner. Get outta here. Come on.
Jenny: Somehow, the sound of the demon being in the walls is the same sound of
being in the belly of an old ship! [Kristin laughs] Tossed about on the waves, argh,
the sea! [Kristin laughs] There’s so much, like, ancient, wooden creaking going on.
[both laugh] The hull is rocking! What the fuck? [both laugh]
Kristin: I don’t know. This episode is off the fucking rails. This episode has lost its
fucking shit.


Jenny: [laughs] It’s so all over the place!
Kristin: [simultaneously] It doesn’t know what is happening. [laughs] So—
Jenny: Anya is experiencing hot flashes. She is—
Kristin: Well, before…before Anya is having anxiety attacks. Tara does not
understand how to dress a wound, and I just wanna point it out.
Jenny: Oh, what’s she doin’? I missed it.
Kristin: This boy has his shirt on still. Just attached to the wound. The red shirt is
just in the wound. And Tara is maybe holding a bottle of peroxide? And—
Jenny: Nice.
Kristin: And, like, tapping down on the bloody wound. [Jenny laughs] Picks up the
bloody cloth, puts it against the bottle of peroxide again, and then pats it more on
the wound. No.
Jenny: Tara, no.
Kristin: No, Tara.
Jenny: Simply no.
Kristin: That’s not…that’s not helping Richard at all.
Jenny: Oh my god. No wonder Anya’s having hot flashes. [both laugh]
Kristin: Yeah. So this is—so this is interesting. And I think, like, you know, Anya
and Xander have a couple of important moments in this episode. Anya’s really,
really scared and overwhelmed. But it’s just like, what is this…why is she panicking
so much? Because it doesn’t feel like she’s panicking just because they’re trapped
in the house. It feels like Anya is at a very, very high stress level. She is consumed
by the wedding. She has just had Halfrek talking to her about Xander and what he
is or is not good at doing for her. And it feels like—to me, this feels more like an
embodiment of the many anxieties that Anya is having that are being spurred on by
this, rather than, like, she’s panicked about being stuck in the house. She’s not
fucking panicked about being stuck in the house. She’s Anya.


Jenny: Yeah. It’s like, very—it’s very un-her. I mean. She’s also like, “He’s gonna
die and we’re gonna watch.” And I know she’s been mortal for, like, a minute. But
how many people has she watched die—
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Because of her? [laughs]
Kristin: Right. So the only way that I can, like, make her—at least her anxiety
believable is to say that this is not about the situation at hand, and she’s using it as
a vehicle. Sort of like, you know, like, if I’m getting to go somewhere and I’ve been
really feeling stressed out about my life and my family and my this and my that.
And I’m like, this shirt just doesn’t look right! You know, and it’s like, that’s what’s
the end of the world, but really—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: It’s just that I have a lot of other feelings. I think that’s what’s happening
here. ‘Cause otherwise this makes no sense for Anyanka.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah. Well, Xander says he’s gonna go get her some water. And—
Kristin: Xander, being a good—being a good boy. He’s being a good boy.
Jenny: But oh no! He gets snagged by the Alex Mack demon. Just pops out behind
him.
Kristin: [simultaneously, singsong] Don’t worry, his boyfriend’s here to save him.
Jenny: [inhales sharply] Go on, tell me all about it.
Kristin: Spike’s like, no! Not my lover!
Jenny: Not my Xander! [both laugh]
Kristin: Anyone but him! And Spike takes the sword demon and they fight and
they fight. And Buffy’s like, “Grab his sword!” because somehow she’s put it
together that his sword is the source of his power.
Jenny: Mmhmm. Mmhmm.


Kristin: Xander gets slashed. A more minor wound, because his shirt is not red.
And Anya sees that he’s wounded and they have another moment. Very intense
moments between Xander and Anya here in this episode. A great moment from
Dawn is right around the bend here, Jenny. I really felt like you specifically would
delight at this line.
Jenny: Dude. Dude! [Kristin laughs] Buffy: “Dawn, are you okay?” Dawn: “Do you
care?!” [Kristin laughs harder] Why do you think she’s fucking asking, Dawn? She’s
asking because she cares! Good lord have mercy on me, a sinner! This is ridiculous!
[laughs] Get it together.
Kristin: Ohh. Dawn turns the corner from hilarity—for us, at least—to seriousness
and says to Buffy, like, “You don’t know what it’s like to be alone.” Um,
counterpoint. Like, you know, I think maybe she does, but—
Jenny: One girl—literally, one girl in all the world. [Kristin laughs] Literally! It is in
the text.
Kristin: Somebody push over a copy of Vampyre [pronounce
vamp-peer]—Vampyre [pronounced vamp-pyre]!
Jenny: Vampyre.
Kristin: [laughs] To Dawn so she can fucking read that shit.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Okay, so here’s our scene with Anya being a real big asshole to Willow
about the use of magic.
Jenny: Oooh, yes. This is bad, actually.
Kristin: This is really bad. Anya has really snapped here and is just telling Willow,
like, “You know what, it’s not that you can’t do the magic. It’s that you won’t do the
magic. Like, we’re all stuck in this fucking house and you could get us out. And
you’re not because you just won’t.” It’s bad. Luckily, it’s Tara’s best episode and
I’m gonna play another motherfucking sound clip for us, because Tara rules.
[Clip from episode plays]


Tara: You’re gonna back off! She said no and that’s it. You’re not gonna
make her do something that she doesn’t want to. And if you try…you have to
go through me first.
Jenny: So…this is a great moment for Tara. My only note—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Is that ending it with, “If you wanna get to her, you’re gonna have to come
through me first” coming from Tara is maybe not, like, the most threatening thing?
Kristin: [laughs] Hey. Tara’s still a powerful witch.
Jenny: If you’re gonna come after Willow, I’m gonna give you a big hug first.
[Kristin laughs] And if you can wriggle out of my cozy little hug, and then you still,
after our hug, feel like going after Willow, I guess then that’s what’ll happen.
Kristin: Awww. I bet you it would work.
Jenny: Xander also agrees with Anya, leading up to this. I think it’s important to
note.
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah.
Jenny: And I just had a thought. I think maybe what’s—perhaps this is just a
furthering of your point. This is the first time in Anya’s existence, at least in the last
thousand years, that she has had—to put it, like, very coarsely—something to live
for.
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: She is in love.
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: And she’s going to marry Xander and she, like, wants to have children and
wants to have a life with him. And like, that—seeing that, on the other side of
possibly, like, a wall that you can’t through—
Kristin: Mm.
Jenny: I.e., this night, i.e. this house.


Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: I mean, that’s…I could see why that might make her…start to unravel a
little.
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah, I mean—
Jenny: However, I do not condone her behavior.
Kristin: No, I mean, this is rough. But it also—like, I mean—and this isn’t to excuse
their behavior. But it is like they are also struggling with the fucking metaphor
here. Right? Because—[laughs]
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Because—
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: You know, the—what is on the other side of this risk is they all die. So it is
a little hard to navigate how Willow should be interacting with this situation. That
said, it’s been given to us by the show as a metaphor for the misuse of substances.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: So this is not a good look for Anya, not a good look for Xander. But Willow
says no. Tara—Tara defends her and they make it through this with, you know,
Anya basically being like, “I’ll take care of it myself then!”
Jenny: [makes tsking sound]
Kristin: Anya.
Jenny: And the way that she’s gonna take care of it is by…tossing Dawn’s room?
Kristin: Yeah, she thinks she’s gonna find some kind of clue that will, like—
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: Lead her to the source of this, like, why this is happening. That it—like,
Dawn has done something and she’ll find that in the room. As she’s tearing Dawn’s


room apart, Dawn and Buffy are having a conversation where Dawn is like, “You
haven’t been around.” And Buffy starts to put the pieces together that all of a
sudden, there was this random guidance counselor who just called you into her
office and you wished for the thing that is happening now? Okay. [both laugh] So.
Jenny: [makes cartoonish mistake sound effects]
Kristin: They go and they see Anya. Tearing apart—
Jenny: Oh no, oh no!
Kristin: Dawn’s room. And she empties over the case where she keeps all of the
stolen goods. And sees that, like, half of the—here’s a bunch of stolen shit, A. B,
half of the shit is stolen from the Magic Box itself. So it’s a moment—and I don’t
know, Jenny, like, if you can recall moments like this in your teenhood, where
you—I mean, like, I made my parents mad a bunch of times. All the time. But like,
there were a couple of moments where, like, I could see the disappointment and
sadness in their face?
Jenny: Ugh! I hate when they’re disappointed.
Kristin: It’s just a real bummer. And I think what’s interesting—’cause I was
thinking about it. Like, this is sad. Like, when Anya looks at Dawn and is like, “How
could you do this?” It’s really in contrast to how she treats her like a child in the
scene earlier, right?
Jenny: Oh, yeah!
Kristin: [simultaneously] Like, when she looks at Dawn and says, “How could you
do this?” she’s treating Dawn like an adult person.
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: And like, this is not okay and how could you? So even though it’s
heart-wrenching, it’s also, like, a bit of what I think Dawn is after. Like, Dawn
wants to be asked that question—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And not just told to, like, go in the other room so they can discuss what to
do with her kleptomaniac self.


Jenny: Yeah, that’s true. [sighs] Well. Well—oh, no. Oh, no. And then, oh no! Buffy
looks at the leather jacket that she was so excited to add to her leather jacket
collection. And never stopped to think for a second, where did Dawn get money for
a leather jacket? [laughs]
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: What is she, mowing lawns?
Kristin: [laughs] In her Foxy Brown tank top?
Jenny: [simultaneously] And Buffy’s like, the security—yes! And Buffy does the
math. And you know, clocks that, oh, the security tags are on that because my
sister has a theft situation.
Kristin: Right. And so she—she does a good job, I think—Buffy, in this moment, of
holding both things at once, you know? She’s like, Dawn has done something wrong
and this is, like, true and we will discuss it and deal with it. But also, this was not
intentional, us being in this house and here’s what happened.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: [laughs] And so as soon as the group hears what happened, Anya is like,
“Goddamnit, Hallie. Get your ass down here,” summoning—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Halfrek. Who is immediately stabbed. Halfrek is like, bloop! Stab. [both
laugh] Anya is like—like, so upset that she summoned Hal—’cause she says—she
basically says right before Hallie is stabbed, “The only way to break a vengeance
demon’s spell is for the vengeance demon to break it herself.” And so then they
summon Hallie and Hallie is stabbed and now Anya has really snapped. And she’s,
like—[laughs]
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: Beating up the sword demon, saying, “I hope you die, you stupid
jerk-face!” [laughs]
Jenny: Nice.
Kristin: And it’s good. It’s good.


Jenny: Love that Buffy gets the demon by goin’ fishin’! Goin’ fishin’ into the wall.
Kristin: Hell yeah.
Jenny: Shish kebab! [Kristin laughs] And then yanks him back out.
Kristin: Shish ke-demon.
Jenny: Don’t worry, Hallie’s fine. She’s like, oh, this? It is but a flesh wound!
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah. So we learn that vengeance demons cannot die by sword.
And—
Jenny: Hm.
Kristin: Speaking of swords, Buffy snaps the sword, important to note, so that the
goo demon is now, I guess, dead? Or at least in another sword in the house
somewhere. Who knows. We’ll find out. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah. The—
Kristin: Unclear.
Jenny: Unsolved mysteries. [both laugh]
Kristin: Yeah. And Hallie is like, “You will not be touching this fucking pendant.”
And then we get a great moment. Don’t we, Jenny? Where fucking Spike walks on
over to fucking Hallie—
Jenny: Ha-ha!
Kristin: And Hallie turns around and sees Spike and says, “William?!”
Jenny: And Spike says, “Hey, wait a minute.” And then Hallie floofs her hair.
Kristin: And then we flash back as a collective viewership to, like, Fool for Love. Is
that the episode? Where—
Jenny: I think so.
Kristin: Spike is, like—where William is reading his bad poetry to Cecily.


Jenny: Aww.
Kristin: Cecily is breaking his heart. And then apparently, Cecily continued living
her life and was called down to become a vengeance demon and now she’s fucking
Halfrek.
Jenny: [laughs] Yes, yes. But she prefers justice demon, just FYI.
Kristin: She does. A great line. I did really appreciate that. I also really loved the
clarity here that vengeance demons are not only summoned to kill and take
vengeance on men who have wronged women. That was just Anya’s particular bent
in life.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: That is what she brought to the vengeance demon career with her. And
Anya sort of levels at Halfrek that Halfrek brought to the table bad parents, that she
had [fake coughs] daddy issues, as she coughs.
Jenny: Uh-huh, uh-huh, uh-huh. Halfrek makes a little speech. You know? About
how—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Everywhere she went in Sunnydale, she could hear basically, like, Dawn
crying out in psychic pain.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And everyone who’s supposed to be closest to her had no idea.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: So, you know. Then she tells them to enjoy the time they have, because
now, all they have is time. I’m wondering if Dawn had the power to leave the house
the whole time. Because her wish was just for everyone else…[Kristin gasps] to stay
there.
Kristin: Whoa. You’re probably right. And she’s the one who cast the vengeance
spell. Unknowingly, but like, if you’re the one who cast it, it wouldn’t apply to you.
That’s a really good point, Jenny.


Jenny: Maybe. May—yeah, it’s just something to think about. And then, you know,
Halfrek is all like, ha-ha! So deal with that. [Kristin laughs] And then she swooshes
her arms to do a, you know, kind of like 90s magician cloud of smoke disappearing
act. [Kristin laughs] But uh-oh. She’s trapped [singsong] in the house!
Kristin: Oh, it’s good comedy because—and great job. The second attempt really
seals the comedy here. When she does it a second time, she’s still like, goddamnit.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Yeah, yeah. Where she’s like, wait a minute, wait a
minute. [laughs]
Kristin: I think, like, important to just hammer this nail home with the fact that the
social services and the demonic underworld are all aware of Dawn’s imminent peril
here. And no one in her closest circle has been able to, like, really see or engage
with that.
Jenny: Whew!
Kristin: I also think it’s really powerful—that I know that—I know that Hallie is
talking—like, when Hallie says, “All you have is time and each other.” She is still
under the impression that what she means is that they’re all stuck in the house
together. But it did feel like quite a line for Season 6.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: Now all you have is time and each other. I was like, oh, shit. She’s not
wrong. She’s really not wrong.
Jenny: [exhales] Well! Well. That is true. And Willow—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Is just taking a moment to thank Tara for what she did. And also to explain,
you know, she kept the stuff as a safety net. Because there was a voice in her head
that was always saying, what if things get really bad? And Tara says, you know,
that’s great. I understand.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: But it’s time to work without the net. And also, it did get really bad and you
still said no.


Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: So celebrate that.
Kristin: That could make me cry. Like, the retelling of that could make me cry. It’s
a really, really powerful moment between the two of them.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And just—I think, you know, we get so few examples in this season
especially of how to have hard conversations and navigate relationships that aren’t
what you expected them to be, in powerful ways. And this moment is that. This
moment is these two, who were together, who aren’t together but who care for
each other, who love each other. And at the end of it, Tara is like, I—like, I see
you. I hear you. And I’m showing yourself to you. Like, that’s really what she’s
doing here. She’s, like, acting as a reflection for Willow, so that Willow can
recognize the progress she’s made. Which is often hard to do from the inside, you
know?
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm, mmhmm. And then they lock eyes. And they say…uh,
in perfect synchronization, “I guess we can still keep making our podcast!” [both
laugh]
Kristin: It’s true.
Jenny: Okay! Well—
Kristin: [simultaneously] Good job, Jenny.
Jenny: Richard’s gotta get to the ER, quick, it’s a flesh wound! It’s a whole other
thing for mortals.
Kristin: Nobody cares about Richard! Who cares? Put him in a cab. [laughs]
Jenny: Anya’s over there, earning her new nickname which is Anya Punitive
Damages Jenkins.
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah, but good for the—
Jenny: [simultaneously] Everybody’s just, like, busting out of the house, spilling all
out of the house. Except…you know who doesn’t wanna leave? [high-pitched]


Kristin: [high-pitched] Buffy?
Jenny: [high-pitched] Buffy wants to stay in with Dawn?
Kristin: [high-pitched] Oh, god.
Jenny: [exhaling] Whew!
Kristin: My last note is, “sob.” It’s just: Buffy stays with Dawn, period. Sob, period.
Jenny: Buffy closes the door. Uh, uh, angly thing, the number three to make a
little heart. [Kristin laughs] That's my last note. [both laugh]
Kristin: Uh, yeah.
Jenny: Great.
Kristin: Buffy making the choice to stay inside the house is really beautiful,
because she’s finally heard, right? She—like, she had to be told, but regardless, we
got there. And she knows that Dawn’s been in pain.
Jenny: Mmhmm!
Kristin: I’m sure she can, you know, empathize in a way, because she’s also in
deep pain. And we saw that very clearly at the end of the last episode. And so now
maybe they’ll be able to have some conversation about what they’re going through,
and share that. And I would also like to say that the way that the rest of the Scooby
gang responds to leaving the house is exactly the emotional weight I felt when I
went to Target for the first time since my vaccination. [Jenny laughs] They’re like,
god, look at the stars! And that was me, except I was like, look at these candles!
[Jenny laughs] I can pick them up and hold them! I can buy one, I can take one to
the counter! [laughs]
Jenny: Oh my fucking god! [laughs]
Kristin: But they’re just so excited to see the outside of the house. And I think, you
know—
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: For the vaccinated among us, it’s a similar feeling. [both laugh]


Jenny: It’s true. It is true. And you know, speaking of touching things and picking
them up and putting them back down again. [Kristin laughs] I’d like to pivot us—
Kristin: [laughing] That’s the way I always like to have sex.
Jenny: [cackles] To the one, the only Sexual Tension Awards!
[SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays]
Sexual tension award!
Jenny: [very excitedly] Well, here we are at another round of the very exciting,
always thrilling, never know what’s gonna happen Sexual Tension Award! So many
slots, so many noms, but only one partnership can triumph! In slot number one,
well! They’ve had some rough patches. We felt weird things about them before, but
in this episode, we’re feeling pretty good about their cramps and their…massagings
of such cramps. It’s Spike and Buffy! Pew-pew-pew, pew!
Kristin: Were you like a fucking Monster Machine? What was that guy? That
commercial? That guy that was like—
Jenny: Oh, Micro Machines? You think I’m Micro Machine—
Kristin: Micro Machines, yeah. It’s—
Jenny: [very excitedly] Well! [Kristin laughs] In slot number two! History repeats,
or does it?! Well! We’ve longed to see, we’ve often wondered, what became of
Cecily? And here she is! Halfrek’d out. Spike, slash William, Halfrek, slash Cecily.
Ah! The tension, the electricity of their eyes meeting across the room, the floofing
of the hair. They are here for your consideration, think about it. In slot number
three, some spicy little noms for you! [Kristin laughs] You know, sometimes
mystery is the sexiest thing of all. We are here to nominate, in the third slot, the
body massager and subtext!
Kristin: Ohh!
Jenny: You do the math! [singsong] If you know what I mean!
Kristin: Love to use a body massager on subtext. Hot.
Jenny: [trills tongue] Okay, and then, in slot number four! Well! A very attractive
vampire possessed by a ghost, on our rival podcast, once said…[Kristin laughs


quietly] “I’m only alive when you’re inside me” which is exactly what the demon
sword says to the demon. [Kristin laughs] So let’s give slot number four to the
demon and the sword!
Kristin: [laughing] I just picture, like, the little—like, the sword—kind of like the
cartoon paperclip. You know? Like—[crosstalk]
Jenny: [simultaneously] Uh-huh, with the googly eyes. “I’m here to help!”
Kristin: Yeah. [laughs]
Jenny: [laughing] “I’m Slashy! Let me know if you have any questions!”
Kristin: “Check out these eyebrows!” [both laugh]
Jenny: Those are your nominations for this episode’s Sexual Tension Awards.
Please cast your vote wisely. Cast your vote strongly. Cast your vote confidently.
But most importantly, cast your vote. Find the poll on our Twitter, @BufferingCast.
The poll will be live for one week from the airing of this episode.
Kristin: Special consideration awards will be sent out to Xander and Spike for their
saving of each other and the sword fight, and to slugs for the penises that come out
of their heads. Congratulations.
Jenny: Yes. Congrats to everyone.
Kristin: Didn’t make it into the running, but you did a good job. [laughs]
[SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays]
Sexual tension award!
Jenny: [sighs] Well.
Kristin: Well. Here we are.
Jenny: What an episode.
Kristin: Here we are. You know. Like I said, not the best episode, but I will tell you
what. Any fucking episode in Season 6 that lets us talk about body massagers and
fuckin’ punitive damages—
Jenny: Oh, that’s right.


Kristin: And red shirts and—you know what I mean? Like, I’ll take it. I will take it.
It’s like a little inhale, a little oxygenation of the system. [laughs]
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: And onward we shall go. And actually, our next episode is live. Live, live,
live! [Jenny gasps] Flashing lights. Live girls, live girls, live girls. Instead of nude
girls…nude girls…
Jenny: Here we are.
Kristin: [laughs] Well, it’s like, live nude girls. But the nude is, like, crossed out.
It’s like that sign but just—[Jenny laughs] you know? Anyway, June 3rd, come hang
out with us. We’re gonna be taping As You Were, live. [Jenny laughs] And you’ll be
able to see, like, the facial expression Jenny just made at me while I made that
joke that she did not like. You’ll get to see that with your own eyes.
Jenny: Oh!
Kristin: Tickets are $12 to $15, and you can find out all the information you need
at bufferingthevampireslayer.com/ticketing. As You Were. I wonder, I wonder how
we were. I wonder who will meet in the episode and what memory lanes we shall
walk down together.
Jenny: So exciting to think about the possibilities. Just makes you wanna grab,
like, a tennis ball. Or a basketball. [Kristin laughs quietly] Or a volleyball. Or a
football. Or a golfball. Or just, like, any ball, you know? [laughs]
Kristin: A golfball. Grabbing a golfball is, like, a really great image. [both laugh]
Jenny: Well, I mean, in the case of our—
Kristin: [simultaneously] I’m so excited, I have to grab this golfball! [both laugh]
Jenny: In the case of the special returning guest, maybe just grabbing a fistful of
golfballs. [laughs]
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: Balls! Anyway. Something to look forward to. Until then…


Kristin: I always look forward to balls.
Jenny: [laughs] I’m Jenny Owen Youngs. [Kristin laughs] And when I’m not
watching Buffy, I am usually writing and recording songs. You can learn more about
me and those songs at jennyowenyoungs.com. You can find all my music on
streaming platforms. You can check out my new band L.A. Exes!
Kristin: Hell yeah.
Jenny: You can give me a shout on Twitter @JennyOwenYoungs, and you can listen
to me speak at length about another petite blonde protagonist over on my other
podcast, Veronica Mars Investigations. We just got to Season 4 and I am pumped.
Kristin: I’m Kristin Russo. And Jenny Owen Youngs, you’re actually a liar because
you said that they could listen to all of your music on streaming platforms, but I
disagree. You had two original songs in the last podcast that you made up and that
are not anywhere for streaming purposes.
Jenny: Oh! You mean—
Kristin: Like, hey girl—
Jenny: The smashola—[singing] ooh-ooh-ooh-ooh-ooh! Girl, I dispose of a body for
you!
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: [singing] Ooh-ooh-ooh-ooh-ooh! Dump that body in a river for you!
Kristin: Yeah, I—
Jenny: [singing] Dump the body! Dump, dump the body! Dump the body for my
hottie!
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: [singing] Ooh-ooh-ooh-ooh-ooh! Dump that body in a river for you!
Kristin: Yeah, I’ve looked—I’ve Google searched every way I could think of. [Jenny
laughs] I haven’t found it streaming anywhere, so you know…
Jenny: Mmm. No, sorry, that one’s still in development.


Kristin: [laughs] Yeah, so I’m Kristin Russo. I do not make music too often, but I
do work with the LGBTQ community. I’m sure that there are songs that I could sing
about that. You can find out the work that I do for and with LGBTQ communities at
my website, kristinnoeline.com. That’s K-R-I-S-T-I-N N-O-E-L-I-N-E. Also, you
probably know by now, but I do a Patreon podcast with Joanna Robinson. It just
keeps getting more enjoyable and this month, the month of May, the lusty month
of May, we are watching all Keanu Reeves—
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: What? That’s a lyric. Do you know what that’s a—
Jenny: The lusty month of May?!
Kristin: It’s a lyric. Do you know what it’s a lyric from?
Jenny: No.
Kristin: The musical Camelot. [laughs]
Jenny: Wow! Okay, carry on.
Kristin: I was in Camelot, so I know. I sang it.
Jenny: Oh, I guess you would know, yeah.
Kristin: I sang the lyric. So anyhow, we’re watching all Keanu Reeves movies that I
haven’t seen before. So you can learn all about that and me, kristinnoeline.com.
That spelling of my name is how you find me on Twitter and on Instagram. I’m
rewatching Lost right now, so if you wanna see people fucking yell at me all day
long about my opinions on John Locke—
Jenny: [laughing] Ha!
Kristin: [laughing] You can fucking find that shit over there. And who are we,
Jenny?
Jenny: We are, of course, Buffering the Vampire Slayer and we’re on Twitter,
Facebook and Instagram, @BufferingCast. You can drop us an email at
bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com!


Kristin: [laughs] [imitating Jenny’s announcer voice] Moviefone.com! [normal
voice] You can support our work on Patreon. You can also support us by rating and
reviewing us. You could also just support us by, like, feeling love in your heart for
us. You know, like, we accept that as well.
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: That’s deep support energy. Energy is good.
Jenny: That is so nice.
Kristin: Yeah. So any details that you need should be findable on our website,
bufferingthevampireslayer.com. That’s where you find the Patreon, that’s where
you find our store. We have a new pin pack that is selling quite quickly.
Jenny: Oh my god. So beautiful.
Kristin: Tabula Rasa pin pack, it’s very cool. Designed by Kim Bogeman. And yeah,
I think that’s about all we have for today.
Jenny: Whew! Well, I hope you have just a tiny little bit of energy left.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Kristin, because until next time…
Both: Awwwoooooooooooooooooooo!
Jenny: Do you even care?! [Kristin laughs]
[“Older and Far Away” plays off the album “Songs from Season Six” by
Buffering the Vampire Slayer]

