Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 4.12: A New Man
Kristin​: Support from today’s episode comes from Poshmark, the easiest way to
buy and sell fashion items. Download the free Poshmark app to score amazing deals
from tons of brands, or list your own items and wait for the offers to roll in.
Shipping is fast and easy and all handled directly through the app. Today you can
get $5 off your first purchase when you enter the invite code 'Slayer5’ when you
sign up. Again, that’s ‘Slayer’ and the number ‘5’ when you sign up, for $5 off your
first purchase with Poshmark.
[CHIME]
Kristin​: Well, hello there. We are about to head into an episode with Kate Leth.
Yes, Kate Leth. The one, the only, sat down with Jenny and I to talk about A New
Man, because of course she did. It's one of my favorite episodes of this podcast that
we've ever recorded, so buckle up for that. But before we get there, of course, I
have some announcements, some news. Let's begin with Spooky News, shall we?
[SPOOKY NEWS jingle plays]
Spooky news!
Kristin​: Okay, here's the deal. The spooky news for today comes from Valdosta
[pronounced with a long “O”], Georgia? Valdosta [pronounced with a short “O”],
Georgia? I'm not sure how we pronounce it, but here's what happened.
Construction workers discovered thousands of human teeth in the wall of a
commercial building. Thousands of human teeth. That's a lot of human teeth. They
were, according to this article in The Independent, disposed of after being retrieved
in, I say, where? Where do you dispose of thousands of teeth? Just at the landfill?
where?
And in this article, it also said they were disposed of after being retrieved, although
a local historical society did offer to take them. So apparently a lot of interest
abounds for teeth. Now I wanna bring a little bit more clarity to this spooky fucking
news story, is that thousands of teeth were found in the wall of this building and
guess who owned the building? A dentist, a dentist owned the building in the year
1900, Dr. Clarence Whittington and another dentist — dentist [laughs] dentist —I
said it like that's how you say doctor for a dentist — Dr… Umans in 1911 was a
tenant in the building until at least 1930.
Hang onto your fucking hats. The discovery is not the first of its kind. It's the third
building in Georgia found to have teeth hidden and its structures, all of which were


dental offices in the earliest 20th century. To which I say, what the fuck? It's pretty
spooky. I mean it doesn't even have to do with like, ghosts or anything. It's just
spooky to pull somebody's teeth and be like, “oh, let me hang on to that. I want to
put it in this empty wall.” Like how does it even — I don't know. That's your spooky
news. I hope you enjoyed.
[SPOOKY NEWS jingle plays]
Spooky news!
Kristin​: Okay. Now, something that is entirely not spooky is the fact that we have
so much new merchandise and we have pretty massive sales happening through
Sunday. So first of all, in the Buffering store, we have new palm hats, hats to keep
your little Scooby heads warm, and they say “wow, wow, wow, wow” across them.
So Jenny's now infamous catch phrase “wow, wow, wow, wow” has made it to a
palm hat and you can now purchase it to warm your little ears, which is very
exciting. We also have kid-sized t-shirts that say “smash the demon lizard
patriarchy”. That beautiful Isabella Rotman design is now on tiny ts for your tiny
humans, which is very exciting because we all know — start them young.
What's more, in the Angel On Top store, there are two new products, a Cordelia
t-shirt! You heard me right! A Cordelia t-shirt! It was designed using the lyrics from
our beloved Cordelia jingle and the artwork was done by Meg Lindsey who runs a
brilliant Instagram called Buffy Letters. Meg is amazing. The shirt is amazing. Angel
On Top is amazing. You should go and check that out. And they also have a new
enamel pin also designed by Isabella Rotman that says “big demon energy”, “big
demon energy”. It's a really fun, very fun enamel pin.
So, through this Sunday we have a big sale happening in both stores that will get
you 20% off. It goes through Sunday and you just use the code ‘Cordelia’ because I
mean we've all been waiting for the shirt, you know, and we all love Cordelia. So if
you use the code ‘Cordelia’ in either one of our stores, that's Angel On Top store,
which you can find at angelontop.com or Buffering store, which you can find at
bufferingthevampireslayer.com, both of which you just click on “shop”, it'll take you
to our store. You use that ‘Cordelia’ code, you get 20% off and you can put things
from both of our stores in the same cart. So you can go to one, get some stuff, go
to the other, get some other stuff. It's very awesome. If you're a $10 Patreon
supporter of either podcast, you're getting a code to receive 30% off through
Sunday because you normally get 20% off. So of course we need to give you a little
bit more.
Okay, one more thing about shopping, ‘cause this is the season we're in. Listen,
capitalism, [sarcastically] wooo! At least when capitalism is benefiting smashing the


patriarchy it kind of undoes capitalism. Is that how it works? Cool. Listen, I have a
new store. Me, Kristin. I have a new store. It's called Gay Stuff by Kristin, ‘cause
that's basically my life. That's going to be the title of my memoir as well. There's a
new color combination of my “queer and forever here” t-shirt in the store. There's a
new “queer and forever here” enamel pin. A gorgeous “safe space” sticker designed
by who else but our favorite artist, Isabella Rotman, who has designed three things,
I think, in this rundown. And there's also some copies of my book “This Is A Book
For Parents Of Gay Kids”, which are signed by me.
Everything in my store will be 15% off through Sunday. And you can find my store
by going to kristinnoeline.com — K - R - I - S - T - I - N - N - O - E - L - I - N E.com — just click on “shop” there and you can find the gay stuff and guess what?
Still on Hello Merch so you can put gay stuff, Angel stuff, Buffering stuff all in your
cart. It's going to be wonderful. It's going to be beautiful.
Oh wow. We did it. We talked about all of the things you should buy. However we
didn't talk about gifts and you should know, Scoobies, our Patrons are amazing.
You know this. Many of you are those amazing Patrons. Last year, for the first time
ever, our Patrons organized a holiday gift exchange. It was like a secret Scooby.
I'm calling it secret Scoobies, I don't actually know if that's the official name.
They're doing this for the second year in a row now and so you sign up and you get
matched with somebody and they're your secret Scooby and you can see their little
wishlist and you buy each other gifts and you send them across the country or the
world.
You can opt in or out for international mailing. And it's really, really fun. Jenny and
I both sign up for the secret Scooby swap — I'm just going to keep extending the
name — so you also might be matched with one of us as your secret Scooby. It's
really fun and registrations are open through November 23rd. So all you need to do
to be a part of that is become a Patron at any level. Our dollar Patrons, up to our
$25 Patrons, all have the same access to that.
They're also doing a Jolabokaflod book exchange. It translates to “Yule book flood”.
It's a Icelandic tradition of giving your loved ones a book as a gift to read on
Christmas Eve. And so that book exchange is also happening in the Patreon-land.
It's also cool. You're also wonderful. Oh, I love you very much. So does Jenny. We
love you. Okay. Oh, there's so much I wanted to talk to you about, but I really need
to make my way through the news because otherwise we're never going to get to
the episode.
London, London, listen up. We are coming for you. This is the last episode we’re
airing before we're going to get on a plane and fly to you to be a part of The


Vampire Ball. That's November 30th to December 2nd and the last day to get your
tickets is November 23rd. For those of you who cannot afford to go to the Ball, we
get it, we get it. We're doing a meetup because we want to see your faces, all of
your faces! So on November 28th at 5:30 PM your time, whatever time — GMT I
think is your time? 5:30 PM at a bar — a pub — excuse me, called Tap On The Line.
It's off the Kew Gardens stop. It's hard to talk about this ‘cause I'm not from the UK
but you get it. All the information is on our calendar
—bufferingthevampireslayer.com — just click on it, you can find the meetup
information there. November 28th London, come and meet with us whether or not
you're going to The Vampire Ball, we would love to see you.
Seattle, of course, we're coming to you January 19th and 20th for PodCon and
Seattle Scoobies who can't make it out to PodCon, we're hoping to do a meetup on
Monday the 21st of January in the early afternoon. So stay tuned for details on that
but put a little pin in it. Okay. We are getting so close to the end of my news but
isn't it all fun news? It's pretty fun. Before we get to the end, I have two more
things. One, I want to give a special shout out to Lauren Klein who we are so
thankful for. Lauren does the sound engineering on all of our episodes and also
does so much of the editing work here with us. She is the best. Go give her a follow
on Instagram @LaurenTaylorKlein. That's L - A - U - R - E - N - T - A - Y - L - O - R
- K - L - E - I - N. Tell her how much she means to you because you know what,
she means a lot to us.
We know that many of you are heading into long weekends with family and for
some that might be wonderful. For others it might be really tough. So this is just a
friendly reminder that all of us are out here. Okay? There are so many of us out
here who love you, who believe in you and who are out here and will continue to be
out here fighting the good fight and smashing the patriarchy to little tiny bits.
Instead of leaving you by wishing you a happy Thanksgiving — and if you need the
reasoning of why I might not want to end this by wishing you a happy
Thanksgiving, you can listen to our episode on Pangs — I would like to take this
opportunity to instead wish one Jenny Owen Youngs a very happy birthday. The day
of Thanksgiving is Jenny Owen Youngs’ day of birth, so please go and shower her in
birthday love over on her Twitter or her Instagram @JennyOwenYoungs. Remind
her also that not only do you wish her all of the birthday love in the world, but that
for the next 25 days she is the same age as me.
[Buffering The Vampire Slayer theme plays]
Jenny​: Hello and welcome to Buffering The Vampire Slayer, a podcast where we
are watching and discussing every episode of Buffy The Vampire Slayer one at a
time, spoiler-free. I am Jenny Owen Youngs.


Kristin​: And I am Kristin Russo, and this week we're talking about Season 4,
Episode 12, A New Man. Stay tuned at the end of this podcast every week for an
original song written by us recapping the Buffy episode we're discussing. And if you
haven't yet started listening to our Angel podcast, Angel On Top, hosted by Brittany
Ashley and Laura Zak, what indeed are you doing?
Jenny​: What indeed? Ah, you can very easily be listening to that. We encourage it.
A New Man was written by Jane Espenson and directed by Michael Gershman and
originally aired on January 25th in the year of our Lord, 2000
Kristin​: Yes. And this is the one where Ethan Rayne returns to town and
transforms Giles into a demon. Spike is the only one who can help.
Jenny​: [Laughs] yeah. This is the one where there's lots and lots and lots of sexual
tension between Giles and Ethan Rayne, again. And so of course this is also the one
where we are rejoined, reunited and it feels so good once more with Kate
[whispers] Leth.
Kate​: Hello!
Jenny and Kristin​: Hello!
Kate​: Hi, it's me!
Kristin​: The last time we heard from you, Kate, you were tantalizing our ears with
your Hush fashion watch.
Kate​: I hope everyone enjoyed it.
Jenny​: [Laughs]
Kristin​: I defined ASMR — ‘cause I didn't understand exactly what it was — as ear
sex. Jenny told me maybe that was not appropriate.
Kate​: I mean, listen, I could go on and on, but ASMR is its own thing that I'm very
passionate about. So I hope those of you who enjoyed, it enjoyed it. And those of
you who are like, “what the hell is happening?” Looked it up and maybe learned
something new.
Jenny​: Hell yeah. Well, it's been 1000 years since we were all last together in a
room taping an episode.


Kristin​: What was the last episode we taped together in a room?
Kate​: Was it Band Candy?
Kristin​: It was Band Candy!
Jenny​: All the way back in Season 3.
Kristin​: That was a long time ago, Kate.
Kate​: It was a long time ago!
Kristin​: A very long time ago. We've missed you.
Kate​: I've missed you too. I'm so glad to be back on another Giles-centric episode.
Jenny​: [Laughs]
Kristin​: Yeah, it's really becoming your thing.
Kate​: I'm not opposed to it at all.
Jenny and Kristin​: [Laughs]
Kristin​: Also, not only is it a Giles and Ethan Rayne episode, but the “previously
on” jumps — literally the first shot in the “previously on” is Willow and Tara's
fingers intertwined.
Kate​: Oh yeah!
Jenny​: Dude! It’s so much!
Kate​: I haven't been here — it's oh boy. Oh boy!
Kristin​: Like, where are we going?
Jenny​: Have you ever intertwined your fingers like that with someone — with like a
friend?
Kate​: [Sarcastic] yeah, of course, obviously.


Jenny​: It's just — you’re friends.
Kristin​: Yeah, just your pal from Wicca group.
Kate​: My gal pal from Wicca group.
Jenny​: That you like to do spells with.
Kate​: I will tell you that for several years in my youth I wore my hair with that
zigzag part.
Jenny​: Oh my god. Of course you did.
Kate​: You know that I did.
Kristin​: I know that you did. Did you use the back end of a comb to do the zigzag?
Kate​: Yeah, one of those skinny combs. I became an expert at it.
Kristin​: So good. You know it was the ultimate nineties — although I guess we're
in the early aughts now — but the ultimate nineties zigzag I think was when you do
a zigzag part and you do what I call doody balls on either side, the little bun
ponytail?
Kate​: Oh yeah, I would do it with pigtails.
Kristin​: Oh yeah. I mean, same general effect. Yes, for sure.
Jenny​: Or with a very small ringer tee and then big jeans.
Kristin​: Big JNCOs. [Laughs]
Kate​: And a choker. Yeah, for sure.
Kristin​: [Laughs] can you tell that to everyone in this room really knows what
they're talking about with 90s fashion?
Jenny​: [Laughs]
Kate​: If there's one thing I know about, it's 90s fashion.
Kristin and Jenny​: [Laughs]


Kristin​: Just also for a visual for everyone, since you can't see Kate —
Kate​: [Laughs]
Jenny​: Oh my god.
Kristin​: Kate is outfitted in a Halloween velvet orange — velour?
Kate​: Yeah, it’s velour.
Kristin​: I'm sorry. I'm so sorry.
Kate​: I know the difference.
Everyone​: [Laughs]
Kate​: It's stretchy so it's velour. That's how you know.
Jenny​: Wow!
Kate​: Non-stretchy is velvet, stretchy is velour.
Kristin​: So it's an orange velour dress that has moons, stars, bats, and — I feel
like I'm not —
Jenny​: Swirlies.
Kristin​: And swirlies?
Kate​: Yeah, I think that's the extent of it.
Kristin​: When describing it, I don't feel like I did it justice.
Jenny​: [Shouts] It’s a Halloween dress, goddammit!
Kristin​: It’s a Halloween dress.
Kate​: We can take a picture.
Jenny​: Oh, we're taking a picture.


Kristin​: We’re definitely taking a picture.
Jenny​: Dangling candy corn earrings —
Kristin​: And black boots that are composed all of black cats with yellow eyes, and
a couple of them are sticking their little pink tongues out.
Kate​: And those were a birthday gift from my mom.
Jenny and Kristin​: Thanks Kate’s mom.
Kate​: She also got me my skull backpack, my Betsy Johnson one that I have. She
has the best taste.
Kristin​: She knows what you like.
Kate​: There's a reason that I love fashion so much.
Kristin​: [Laughs] so shall we get into this episode or what?
Jenny​: Yes, yes, yes. Here's the thing, now that we have a new segment called
“how big are Riley's hands compared to Buffy’s body watch” —
Kate​: [Laughs]
Kristin​: That just began.
Kate​: Okay. Okay, great. Great, good.
Jenny​: Here we see Riley who is just kind of too big for a dorm twin bed.
Kristin​: Also, why the fuck do they make dorm beds extra long? Do you remember
that shit?
Kate​: I was so sure just now that you were going to say Riley, who is just two big
planks of wood —
Jenny and Kristin​: [Laughs]
Jenny​: It was really one plank of wood.
Kristin​: Like a top plank and a bottom plank?


Kate​: Just two side-by-side, that’s it.
Kristin​: Stapled together for sturdiness.
Jenny​: Well, they're just making out in a dorm bed a pastime which you may or
may not have engaged in. Uh, did I? Yes I did.
Kate​: I did not go to a school that had dorm beds, but I did make out in some
dorms.
Jenny​: Oh hell yeah, you found a way.
Kate​: I went —​ ​I traveled.
Kristin​: Well — Jenny, finish your thought, but I do have a question about making
out in dorms.
Jenny​: Please.
Kristin​: Well I just — when I watched this, I thought did you all have —​ ​it sounds
like you didn't have a dorm bed experience of your own —​ ​but did you interface
with systems to notify roommates to not come in? ‘Cause I've heard talk of this.
Kate​: Okay. So I was really lucky and the only person —​ ​so I tried to make it sound
like I was very salacious, but it was in one monogamous relationship.
Jenny and Kristin​: [Laughs]
Kate​: When I was in my first year of university, my boyfriend at the time went to a
school that was like a two hour bus ride ride away. So that was part of why we
broke up was because we were both broke and couldn't take the bus. But he —
everyone in their residency — residency?! That's like a med school — their
residence? Whatever, their dorm house. Can you tell I didn't go to a real college?
Jenny​: [Laughs]
Kate​: So everyone had a roommate except he didn't, the roommate he got
assigned didn't show up for whatever reason.
Jenny​: Nice.


Kate​: So for several months he had a dorm room to himself and he could push the
two dorm beds together and it was like luxury.
Jenny​: Oh hell yeah.
Kate​: But then right as we were like, “oh, maybe we should break up” the
roommate appeared. He just started coming to school in the last month of the
semester. So we were like, let's take this as a sign.
Kristin​: Yeah, “we can’t afford bus tickets and you have a roommate now. So
moving onto greener pastures.”
Jenny​: [Laughs]
Kristin​: Did you have systems, Jenny?
Jenny​: Everything kind of timed out in such a way that when I did have a
roommate, I either was seeing somebody who had their own single, or I moved into
the same apartment as the person I was dating and I was in the double and they
were in the single.
Kristin​: Classic. [Laughs]
Jenny​: Yeah, classic. [Laughs]. So I never had to put a sock on a doorknob or
anything. I did, however, once — is this a story I should tell?
Kristin​: Yes! Now it is.
Kate​: Yes!
Jenny​: [Laughs] oh no. I was engaged — oh god, I wish that I could melt into the
wall.
Kristin​: Jenny — I'm going to be here for all the visual needs that you have —
Jenny is leaned up against a wall. Her face is bright red and she's trying to — you
know that GIF of Homer Simpson when he falls back into the bush?
Kate​: Somehow seated upright and in the fetal position.
Jenny​: [Laughs] yeah. So whatever. I had a girlfriend in college, lock me up!
Kate and Kristin​: [Laughs]


Jenny​: And we were having sex, sue me, whatever! But we were having — [clears
throat] she was, um — sometimes, you know, in a close quarter living situation,
people can hear things through the wall and this person was a very expressive
person —
Kate and Kristin​: [Laughs]
Jenny​: And on this particular — oh god.
Kristin​: I’m sorry, this story is just like whatever — it's just you telling it is
everything.
Kate​: It’s so good.
Jenny​: On the day in question, the girl who was in the single next to hers — it was
just so funny. It was ridiculous. I was like, “wow, I wish this was not so loud.” And
she was yelling up a storm and the person in the next room just was screaming at
her to shut up and threw a shoe against the wall.
Kristin​: Wow.
Jenny​: Yeah.
Kristin​: Wow. Thank you for telling us that tale.
Jenny​: You're going to take that out, right?
Everyone​: [Laughs]
Kristin​: Never! I want to make that its own episode.
Kate​: I'm making that my ringtone.
Everyone​: [Laughs]
Kate​: Someone calls me and just starts with [does impression of Jenny] “uhhh…
well…”
Everyone​: [Laughs]


Kristin​: She was very expressive. So anyway, Riley and Buffy are making out in
bed —
Jenny​: And Riley's hand is huge on Sarah Michelle Gellar’s tiny body. Once again —
Kate​: She's so small.
Kristin​: Yeah.
Jenny​: She’s so small. His hands are so big. His hands are like two planks of wood.
Kate and Kristin​: [Laughs]
Kristin​: And then, of course, Willow walks in. Luckily they're clothed and not being
expressive. And is like, “there's a bad thing, you got to come now!”
Jenny​: [Does impression of Willow] “help, vampires don’t breathe fire.” Like, bitch,
we know, you could just say no, it's not a vampire.
Kristin​: Honestly, it's the first time Willow has ever had an excuse that wasn't just
looking blankly and panicked —
Jenny​: [Does impression of Willow] “Gotta go!” Yeah, that's true.
Kristin​: She prepared for this.
Kate​: She did.
Jenny​: She prepared a lie at — per our requests.
Kristin​: [Laughs] And of course then we learn it’s Buffy’s birthday.
Kate​: [High-pitched voice] weeee!
Jenny​: Oh my god.
Kristin​: To which I say, where's Cordelia? Like, what's a fucking surprise party for
Buffy without Cordelia popping out from behind —
Jenny​: True.


Kate​: Look, I have a lot of feelings about this season, but the just startling lack of
Cordelia is — it's rough. It's rough.
Kristin​: It’s sad. We talked a little bit about how Joss apparently felt like Spike was
going to be able to fill the role of the person who was just outright rude.
Kate​: I'm just slowly shaking my head, realizing that doesn't register on a podcast.
Jenny​: [Laughs]
Kate​: They’re not the same.
Kristin​: No Cordelia substitutes. Okay, so right. It's Buffy's birthday and then we
go to the credits and then —
Everyone​: [Laughs]
Kristin​: And then we’re at a party —
Jenny​: Oh poor Giles. Imagine being Giles at a college party.
Kate​: Full of a bunch of kids we have never seen before and we'll never see again.
Jenny​: Yeah, we know that Willow, Xander, Buffy and Anya are not friends with
any of those people.
Kristin​: They try to explain it away when they're like, “well it's like a bunch of
Riley's friends” and like whatever.
Kate​: Is it? Does he have friends?
Kristin​: He has two friends, Graham and Forrest.
Kate​: But they are also in the commandos?
Kristin​: Right.
Kate​: I'm saying he doesn't have civilian friends.
Jenny​: Oh no, gosh no.
Kristin​: No-one in either camp has any civilian friends.


Kate​: I think these people just showed up for the free food, maybe? It’s college.
Kristin​: Which would be more believable.
Jenny​: It’s college, yes.
Kristin​: You hear free pizza and you go to wherever. That's how people used to get
you to join on campus clubs.
Jenny​: Oh yeah, or go to their recital.
Kristin​: Right.
Jenny​: Two huge jugs of Carlo Rossi wine.
Kristin​: Oh wow. Sounds really specific, Jenny.
Jenny​: Most wine bang for your college buck.
Kristin​: Yo, my dad just told me this story about, what is it called?
Jenny​: Carlo Rossi?
Kristin​: Carlo Rossi wine that he had. So my dad's Italian and he has a bunch of
Italian relatives and apparently one of his aunts would buy a jug of that wine, dump
half of it out, fill it with, I think, vodka or some other kind of giant alcohol and then
put it in the closet and leave it in the dark for like a month and then would serve it
to people as wine. But everybody would get so drunk because it was way more
strong than wine.
Jenny​: What in the hell?!
Kristin​: Just telling you.
Kate​: Wow.
Kristin​: Anyway, Giles’ is at this party —
Jenny​: Don’t try that at home, please.
Kristin​: Yeah, don’t. But I was impressed with this former relative of mine being so
—


Jenny​: Crafty?
Kristin​: Yeah, thrifty.
Kate​: Genius!
Jenny​: Yeah. There's all this like, “wow, this is my boyfriend Riley that you totally
didn't know about it.” And then there's all this, “Professor Walsh says this, Professor
Walsh says that... You have to meet her, she's the smartest person I've ever met.”
How dare you?!
Kristin​: I told you in Hush that Buffy had feelings for Professor Walsh! And I
believe that it is confirmed in this episode.
Kate​: She's got — I mean, there's probably some mommi energy there.
Kate​: Right?! [Laughs]
Jenny​: Mommi with two “Ms” and an “I”?
Kate​: Yes, of course.
Kristin​: Obviously. For the uninitiated — M,O,M,M,I — you can go on over to
Autostraddle and find out what a mommi is.
Kate​: They’ll tell you everything you need to know.
Kristin​: Yeah. You need to. [Laughs] so Giles begins his jealousy — the most
enjoyable jealousy. Giles vs Professor Walsh.
Kate​: I will say that, you know, from a Fashion Watch perspective, it's so
underlying in this episode, and it's like this subtle thing, but Giles is wearing jeans
and Giles never wears jeans —
Jenny​: Yeah, what the hell?
Kate​: And it makes him look even more like a weird out of place uncle.
Kristin​: Yeah. He also pulled the tweed back out.
Kate​: Yeah, but not — I don't know, he's not wearing collared shirts or the good
stuff. I know that he's retiree — don't say he's retired.


Everyone​: [Laughs]
Jenny​: He’s between projects, please.
Kate​: He’s between projects at the moment. Watching it is so painful.
Jenny​: Yeah, it really sucks.
Kristin​: He tries to — at the start of the scene — he tries to be, “I remember, this
reminds me of like crazy prank I did” and no-one's paying attention to him. Nobody
even acknowledges that he's just as old as Professor Walsh and so they shouldn't
be making these comments.
Jenny​: Oh my god.
Kate​: But it's like, so weird. Imagine being, you know, one of Riley's friends, one of
those people there that's Riley's close friend and you're like, “oh wow. Everyone
here is the same age as us except for this guy who's Buffy’s former librarian. Why
is he here?!”
Kristin​: Which is like, right! Parents don't go to college parties! How did this
happen?!
Kate​: No, they don't. It’s very strange.
Kristin​: Oh, Giles.
Jenny​: I feel like Giles should have had the presence of mind maybe, to not go to
this party.
Kristin​: But maybe he's lonely.
Kate​: Maybe he didn't know that it was going to be an extended group of people.
Maybe he thought it was going to be a Scooby shindig.
Jenny​: Yeah, the last time they threw Buffy a surprise party, there were five
people.
Kate​: Exactly!


Kristin​: Yeah, that's true. Also, not to, like, corral you into fashion, you don't have
to go there, but I did write down that Xander is in a sweater vest and that we meet
— maybe we've seen Riley and a turtleneck, but it just feels very present to me in
this scene.
Kate​: It is… Yeah. Look, there's not a lot to say about Riley in terms of Fashion
Watch. I mean, I feel like I acknowledged Xander for the first time recently and was
like, “oh, that was a sort of nice shirt he was wearing.” Um, that's the most I can
do. Riley is he's just... yeah, just bread. I don't know. Not even toast. It's hard —
Jenny and Kristin​: [Laughs]
Kristin​: Cardboard. White bread. Yes.
Kate​: Yeah, he's fine. He's fine. But yeah, the turtleneck is really something.
Kristin​: [Sighs] Sorry, Jenny, was that hard for you hearing two people in the
same room —
Jenny​: I’m fine. I've spent my whole life hearing people talk trash about Riley —
Kate​: Look, I've dated Riley's. I have, it's fine. He's not the worst. There are some
moments where I genuinely feel for him. I think it's just, he's so associated with a
lot of things in this season that I do not love. Not in terms of being offended by
them, they're just boring. He's not some of the other paramours of Buffy that are a
lot more interesting.
Jenny​: Right. Right.
Kristin​: Yep. Totally. So, before we leave the party, I just want to say, I think it's
really cute that Xander is teaching Anya how to have tact.
Jenny​: Oh my god. [Laughs]
Kristin​: That they have this little practice banter, where he’s like, “remember what
we talked about?” and she's like, “right!”
Jenny​: “Please continue with your story.”
Kristin​: Right. Right. And looks at him for approval.
Jenny and Kristin​: [Laughs]


Kristin​: So Spike is moving out. He's going to get a crypt or dank hole somewhere.
He’s very excited about it. Anya, once again, trying to be a human —
Jenny​: Adapt and, yeah, be a person —
Kristin​: To the traditions.
Jenny​: And try and give Spike a lamp.
Kate​: I love Anya so much. I mean, she's one of my favorite characters of the
whole series and it's so exciting. It is one of the definite up points of this season is
more Anya.
Jenny​: Yes!
Kate​: Always more Anya is always a good thing.
Kristin​: Truly.
Kate​: And I love this conversation because it's so practical when she's like, “but
you're not going to have running water and electricity and any of the things that
you have come — all of the perks you've come to know in Xander’s basement.” And
he's like, “that's a really good point” and I love this moment! Yeah, it's so fun.
Kristin​: I enjoy — ‘cause these characters, you know, Spike is just sort of newly in
the gang and Anya is still fairly new to the gang and I love the moments like these
‘cause we see their little relationships starting to grow. Like who is Anya to Spike?
Who is Spike to Anya?
Jenny​: Wow.
Kristin​: Where will it go, you know? Anyway, then we go to fucking Walsh's office
—
Kate​: Oh boy.
Kristin​: And get a great wordplay from Buffy.
Jenny​: [Laughs]


Kate​: Oh, it was the first thing I wrote down because I have used it. I don't
remember what comic I put it in, but I definitely wrote that into a comic
somewhere.
Jenny​: Oh, really?!
Kate​: The, “you are mythtaken”. It is one of my favorite puns in the history of
time. And obviously it’s Jane Espenson. I mean, I, having become a writer of TV
only in the last couple of years, I have fallen completely in love with Jane Espenson
and gone back and rewatched her episodes and been like, “oh my god, she's so
good. She's so good.”
Kristin​: She is. Yeah. You have more inside baseball knowledge of how good she
is.
Kate​: She's so good!
Kristin​: She's real good. Oh wow.
Kate​: Her batting averages is very — I don't know sports — that analogy died on
the table, but I think she’s very good. And anyway, yes, that is one of my favorite
lines.
Kristin​: And Sarah Michelle Gellar does a great delivery.
Kate​: It’s so cute!
Kristin​: Right?! ‘Cause you could blow that delivery big time. I would blow it and
she does not. She delivers it very well. It makes us all laugh. And then, of course,
we sort of like —
Jenny​: [Groans]
Kristin​: Oh, what's the groan?!
Jenny​: Then we find out that Riley has killed 17 whole demons.
Kate​: Oh boy.
Kristin​: 11 vampires and 6 demons for old Riley.
Kate​: [Does impression of Riley] “how many hostels for you, Buffy?” [Groans]


Kristin​: Awkward.
Kate​: Oh, get ready to get embarrassed.
Kristin​: Yeah.
Jenny​: [Laughs]
Kristin​: But just like into this — which I find it very enjoyable. Of course, they're
like paralleling the “how many people have you slept? How many people have you
slept with?” conversation which many of us have in the start of a new relationship
and this is, you know, Buffy is just like off the charts and Riley is feeling a little
self-conscious.
Kate​: As he — well no, I'm not going to say “as he should” — I have a lot of
feelings about Riley's feelings towards Buffy's power, but we’ll talk about it more. It
definitely comes up in this episode.
Kristin​: It really does. I have a jingle at the ready for Riley in this episode with —
related to this topic. But you know where we should go right now, Kate. I squealed
for you and me and all of us, but Giles has a fucking feather duster in his teeth.
Kate​: Oh my God. [Laughs] yeah. Yeah, that's a moment.
Kristin​: Right?!
Kate​: [Sighs]
Kristin​: It’s just so nonchalant.
Kate​: It's just so chill. Just dusting his leather bound volumes —
Kristin​: His books.
Jenny​: [Laughs]
Kate​: And I love — look, this scene is so funny to me ‘cause it's forced in this weird
way. This episode is — I mean I love Jane, I would die for Jane. It's a strangely
uneven episode and there were a lot of moments where things are like —​ ​this was
scripted, this doesn't feel very natural. And this moment specifically where he's like,
“oh, I'm just going to be dusting my volumes, this thing no-one's ever seen me do
before.” And then be like, “wait a minute, I should check this book. Wait a minute,


this day is about to happen to this specific page.” It's like — what made you think
of that? My dude. Did you see the volume and you were like, “oh, I remember 6
years ago when it said this prophecy was going to happen.” It's very funny to me.
Kristin​: I think the scene was — they probably have like a really great way — like
Jane probably had this really great way of getting there, but then they were like,
“but we could have Giles dust his books and then put a feather duster in his teeth if
we do it this other way.”
Kate​: Specifically for Kate Leth.
Kate and Kristin​: [Laughs]
Kristin​: Also — practicality of a feather duster. Anyone? It just doesn't seem like it
would be effective to me.
Kate​: I mean, I don't know if this was a — I mean, it was a pre-Swiffer era. I have
one of those that has the long handle on it to get —
Kristin​: The Swiffer long handle?
Kate​: The Swiffer thing, yeah. To get the tops of bookshelves and such.
Kristin​: I just feel like a feather would just move shit around.
Kate​: I don't know.
Jenny​: Yeah, it's really unclear.
Kristin​: Maybe we have some feather experts listening.
Kate​: Probably.
Jenny and Kate​: Almost certainly. [Laughs]
Jenny​: So, then we see Riley and Buffy talking and he's all like, “you have a lot of
experience.” And then he's like, “I'm not even sure that I could take you.” And then
Buffy is like, “depends on your meaning.”
Kate​: Mmhmmmm.
Kristin​: Yeah, these two really need to do it.


Jenny​: Yeah they need to just work some stuff out real quick.
Kristin​: They need to stop talking about it and do it.
Kate​: [Laughs]
Kristin​: But yeah, this also begins, I think what you were referencing just a
moment ago, Kate, Riley just being like, “I mean, you seem really tough, like I
might not even be able to fight you.” Like, yeah, dude, you can't!
Kate​: You definitely can't.
Kristin​: You definitely can’t.
Kate​: She's definitely the chosen one. I'm sure you lift, but she — I do love when
he says, “I suddenly find myself having to discover the plural of apocalypse” or
whatever it is that he says. It's like, yeah.
Kristin​: Yeah like, you know, to jump around, but he does eventually get it and get
to it, it seems at least in this episode, but boy does he struggle. You know why he
struggles, everyone? It’s because of the...
[THE PATRIARCHY jingle plays]
The patriarchy! [thunder clap, evil laughter]
Jenny​: Well, speaking of struggling, it is really rough to watch Giles bust all up into
Professor Walsh's room with the Greek myth references. Being like, “I've heard you
were smart.”
Kate​: This is one of the most uncomfortable scenes in the whole show. When this
episode started and I knew it was coming, I had an internal cringe that just
gradually built until he entered her office and I was like, oh God, I am going to
have to watch this again aren’t I?
Jenny​: Mmhmm.
Kate: ​I've seen it maybe 10 times and it is just as painful every time ‘cause he is
not doing well in this one.
Kristin​: And I am definitely not a major fan of Professor Walsh —


Kate​: But I get where she's coming from.
Kristin​: Yeah, she's like, “my man step off “, you know, she's really icing him and I
was kind of —
Jenny​: I mean the thing is if you take it as an isolated — if you remove all context
— if you are Professor Walsh and some dude who's your age comes into your office
and is like, “I'm looking for Buffy, we're friends.”
Kate​: I would be very icy to him too.
Jenny​: Yeah. He's like this guy that used to come into Borders Books And Music
when I worked there, when I was in college. This guy who was maybe like 50 and
he was all like, “you're an old soul “ and brought classical records to listen to. That
is the vibe of this exchange. It doesn't look great.
Kristin​: No
Kate​: No. And in that moment it's like, oh she's being protective of Buffy. I get it.
But she doesn't know the context. ‘Cause he, at this point, doesn't know about
what her deal is. He doesn't know that she knows Buffy’s the Slayer. ‘Cause if he'd
come in and been like, “oh I was her Watcher”, then she would've been like, “oh
chill. I get it. Also, why are you hanging around though? Get a job.”
Kristin​: But, of course, he’s like “I'm her friend and her former high school
librarian.” Come on!
Kate​: Yeah. And I'm still here.
Jenny​: But also Walsh is like, “hmmm, she's self-reliant and independent, not
always a good thing.”
Kate​: Yeah.
Kristin​: Well, you know, Walsh is a pain in the ass.
Kate​: Yeah, don’t. She sucks.
Jenny​: And then she busts out the absence of a male role model.
Kate​: Right to his face.


Jenny​: “Clearly lacks a strong father figure.” How dare you, madam?!
Kate​: Oof.
Kristin​: Do you think that she —​ ​are we sure she doesn't know?
Jenny​: It’s starting — it feels intentional by the end.
Kristin​: Yeah, it’s so intense and she’s only been in the room like a minute. It just
does seem very intense for her not to know anything.
Kate​: But is she saying that in the context of like, “I don't know who you are but if
someone like this is in Buffy's life, maybe it's because she has a lack of a strong
male role model” or something. I don't know. Could be, but it's also just cold as ice,
cold as ice. Very painful to watch.
Kristin​: Oof!
[Ad music starts]
Jenny​: Today’s episode is brought to you by Audible. It’s the time of year when
everyone is thinking about thoughtful gifts, so think about giving yourself or a loved
one the gift of an Audible membership. Now is the best time to do it ‘cause we’ve
got a special offer for you. Access an unbeatable selection of audiobooks including
bestsellers, motivational titles, mysteries, thrillers, memoirs and more. You can
choose 3 titles every month: one audiobook and two Audible originals you can’t
hear anywhere else.
Listen anytime, on any device, anywhere. At home, at the gym, on your commute
or just on the go. You’ll also enjoy easy audiobook exchanges, rollover credits and
an audiobook library you can keep forever, even if you cancel. Not sure where to
start? May I recommend to you the new Alice Isn’t Dead novel written by creator of
many great things, Joseph Fink, and narrated by friend of the pod and delightful
person, Jasika Nicole. First it was a podcast, now it’s a book, but you can put the
book directly into your ears, just like a podcast, via Audible. The beautiful circle of
life. Wow.
Now for a limited time you can get 3 months of Audible for just $6.95 a month.
That’s more than half off the regular price. Give yourself the gift of listening and
while you’re at it think about giving the gift of Audible to someone on your list. For
more, go to audible.com/buffering or text “Buffering” to 500500. That’s A, U, D, I,
B, L, E.com/buffering or text “Buffering” to 500500.


Kristin​: Support for today’s show also comes from Hairstory. Hairstory’s New Wash
is an entirely new way to wash hair. It’s not a shampoo or a conditioner, but a new
category of product that both cleans and moisturizes with a proprietary blend of
essential oils and naturally derived saturated cleansers. No detergents or synthetic
compounds that strip away your hair’s natural barrier, causing it to overproduce oil.
New Wash calms the scalp and returns your hair to it’s true nature.
It’s no surprise that there are over 5000 reviews on Hairstory’s website and with
the way Sunnydale vampires care about their hair aesthetics, I’m certain that at
least a few of those good reviews are from the highly stylised undead. Head to the
Hairstory website and use their sophisticated product wizard to find the right
version of New Wash for you and use the styling wizard to determine which of
Hairstory’s styling products you might like.
The online quiz — I took it, it was so awesome — and in addition to the New Wash I
also got a powder spray that’s a lot like a dry shampoo, from Hairstory, some of
their hairspray and their hair wax. I love all of the products, the powder is
especially awesome, it gives my hair a texture that I haven’t found with other
products. I also think maybe it’s what Angel uses to keep those spikes standing
strong.
Now as a limited time offer get 10% off Hairstory’s New Wash by visiting
hairstory.com/buffering and using the promo code ‘Buffering’. That’s
hairstory.com/buffering, use promo code ‘Buffering’ for 10% off Hairstory’s New
Wash.
Jenny​: Today’s episode is also brought to you by Care/of. Care/of is a monthly
subscription vitamin service that delivers completely personalised vitamin and
supplement packs right to your door. Just take Care/of’s fun online quiz, which asks
you about your diet, health goals and lifestyle choices and find out in 5 minutes
what vitamins and supplements you specifically need. Like, maybe you don’t get
out a lot into the sun, because you’re a vampire, so they’ll send you some vitamin
D, just an example!
Then, your vitamins will get delivered right to your door of your home, of your
crypt, in personalised easy to remember daily packs. Perfect for a busy on-the-go
lifestyle. Vegan and vegetarian options are available to match your dietary needs
and your monthly subscription box can be easily modified at any time.
I’ve been using Care/of for a while now and, let me tell you, it has made it a lot
easier for me to remember taking my vitamins. It was super easy to take the quiz
and figure out what exactly I was looking for and they’re particularly great for


someone like me who travels all the time because you don’t have to fumble with a
huge vitamin container and sorting out — counting out the number of vitamins you
need for your trip — whatever — you can just grab the number of packs you need
and you’re good to go.
For 25% off your first month of personalised Care/of vitamins, visit takecareof.com
and enter “Buffering”. That’s takecareof.com and enter “Buffering” for 25% off your
first month of personalised Care/of vitamins.
[Ad music fades out]
[Episode resumes]
Kristin​: So of course, then we go to the cemetery and — ‘cause Giles is just like, “I
can't fucking find this” — this is the first time that no-one can find a person.
Without cell phones, it's amazing how much they find each other. He hasn’t found
Buffy and they go to the — you know — third mausoleum from the right today. And
they go in there and — you know — there's no risen anything and they're like,
“great, great, great.”
Kate​: I love how it's always the same mausoleum. It's so easy to tell that it's the
same one. ‘Cause it's the same place where they're fighting the demons when
Willow has her will done. It's the same mausoleum, very clearly. They might — I
wonder if like — did they move an urn around?
Jenny​: Maybe.
Kristin​: Right, or sometimes there's like a tomb and this time there wasn't a tomb.
Yeah, we've been in this mausoleum before. And then, of course, it's revealed that
Riley is one of the army dudes and fucking no-one told Giles.
Kate​: So rough. It's a bad day for Giles.
Jenny​: Oof.
Kristin​: Truly, it just gets worse.
Kate​: It just gets worse.
Jenny​: Oh my god. Tomorrow it gets worse.
Kristin​: Well, it gets a little better before it gets worse.


Kate​: [Laughs].
Jenny​: Yeah true.
Kristin​: But right — and so — you know, he's like, “Spike knew?!” that's like the
final straw for him.
Jenny​: Oh my god. And also he finds out Professor Walsh — she's in charge of The
Initiative —
Kate​: And he says, “that fish wife”
Everyone​: [Laughs]
Kristin​: He does.
Kate​: What an insult!
Jenny​: [Laughs]
Kristin​: Which prompted me to — I didn't know where that came from so I looked
it up. Does everybody know?
Kate​: I don’t.
Jenny​: I don’t.
Kristin​: A fish wife is like — it's defined as “a coarse mannered woman who is
prone to shouting”. Which is not accurate ‘cause Walsh didn't shout at all, FYI, but I
looked a little bit further and a fish wife — other terms for fish wife are fish fag or
fish lass, sorry everyone.
Kate​: Rough.
Kristin​: But you know — it's a woman who sells fish. In this context the word
“wife” means “woman” rather than a married woman and the usage stems from old
English. It's similar to the German also meaning woman. Anyway, often the wives
and daughters of fishermen — “fish wives”— were notoriously loud and
foul-mouthed. To swear like a fish wife is a phrase that people would use. One
reason for their outspokenness is that their wares were highly perishable and so
lost value if not sold quickly.


Kate​: Honestly, it sounds like goals. You know?
Kristin​: Yeah, yeah. I thought it was really interesting that like —
Kate​: They’re entrepreneurs, they're outspoken.
Kristin​: Right. And I copied that little segment ‘cause by the time I got to the end I
was like, this is so typical. Here are these women that have to sell these fish and so
they're being loud ‘cause they have to sell the — like there's a purpose for it. But
the context of that is totally washed away and they're just these loud women being
loud and rowdy. Just so typical. We already played with jingle, but you get it. You
get it.
Kate​: [Laughs]
Jenny​: Mmhmm.
Kate​: I'm glad to know.
Kristin​: Anyway, thank you for letting me go on that fish wife detour when we all
know what's about to happen.
Kate​: Mmhmm.
Jenny​: Well, Giles sends Xander and Willow home. Then Giles is like, “uh, what am
I doing?” And he leaves and he's like, “nothing's going to happen” and then
[shouts] from the shadows merges a reedy figure with an accent who's all like,
[imitates British accent] “actually things are about to get very interesting. Here's
my dark villain monologue [evil laugh].” And Giles comes back and is like, “is
somebody in here?!”
Kate​: And he goes, [imitates British accent] “oh bugger, I thought you'd gone.”
Which is one of my favorite deliveries. This episode was a lot of really good lines,
but that one is — that little moment is so good.
Kristin​: It’s pretty good. There’s nothing —
Kate​: Ethan Rayne keeping the silk shirt industry alive.
Kristin​: Oh my god.


Jenny​: Oh my lord, mmhmm.
Kristin​: Oh, I can't wait to get to a later silk shirt event.
Kate​: Oh yes!
Kristin​: [Laughs] Um, Ethan. Okay. The way that Giles says “Ethan Rayne” — I got
like — I wrote — listen, I don't know why I got so dramatic in my notes, but I
wrote: “Ethan Rayne speaketh Giles as a long lost love would.”
Jenny and Kate​: [Laughs]
Kate​: Yeah, that's normal. That's a normal thing to say. About a normal as fish
wife.
Kristin​: Maybe that’s what it was, I had been reading about fish wives right before
I wrote that note.
Jenny​: Then they begin to wrestle.
Kristin​: Yes. But before they begin, Giles says, “you have no idea how much
threshing you going to improve my day” to which I raised my eyebrows at a loud
volume.
Kate and Kristin​: [Laughs]
Jenny​: Heavens.
Kristin​: So then they go to the pub.
Kate​: Oh yeah.
Kristin​: And they get shit-faced.
Kate​: I love this. Anthony Stewart head plays a good drunk.
Kristin​: Yeah!
Kate​: It's something I always notice in shows is can an actor actually play drunk
convincingly? ‘Cause when someone doesn't, it's so staggeringly obvious that
they're not staggering, and his is great. So is Ethan's, ‘cause he's keeping it
together, but he's definitely a little loose.


Kristin​: They're having so much fun.
Kate​: Yeah.
Jenny​: Oh my god.
Kate​: I love this pub — this bar that we've never seen.
Jenny​: Yeah!
Kristin​: Yeah we've seen a couple of places lately that are very new to the
Sunnydale universe.
Kate​: Yeah, it's exciting to move off of just the Espresso Pump.
Kate and Kristin​: [Laughs]
Kristin​: I know where the adults go.
Kate​: Yeah. No, it's great.
Kristin​: So Ethan Rayne is like, “there's this three, one, four situation and I want
to tell you about it” —
Kate​: [Whispers] What does that mean?!
Kristin​: Yeah. What is it? What could it be?
Kate​: [Whispers] It’s gonna be a let down.
Jenny and Kristin​: [Laughs]
Kristin​: You got a little ASMR right there.
Kate​: [Laughs]
Kristin​: There's just some lines in this scene, like, “we're just a couple of old
mystics” —
Kate​: Right?


Jenny​: Oh my god. [Shouts] Get a room!
Kristin​: They get drunk and Giles —
Jenny​: Giles is like, “I'm twice the man she is.”
Kate​: [Laughs]
Kristin​: Wait, okay. Later on in this same scene — fucking they’re — when we
come back in, they're actually really drunk. Ethan's like, “you're very attractive” —
Kate​: Right?
Jenny​: It seems like he's talking to Giles 100%.
Kristin​: Giles thinks he's talking to him! He's like, “what?” You know what I mean?
It's like a thing. It's a moment.
Kate​: It's such a thing between the two of them. The way Ethan Rayne says
[imitates British accent] “Ripper” is like — it's its own fanfiction prompt. Like it's all
you need.
Jenny and Kristin​: [Laughs]
Kristin​: Truly. Truly.
Jenny​: Oh my god. Also later — at the end of the scene I think — Ethan is looking
right into Giles's eyes and he's like, “we're a couple of sorcerers the night is still our
time” —
Kate​: [Shouts] Yes!
Jenny​: Meaningful eye contact —
Kristin​: “The night is still our time for magic” —
Jenny​: [Shouts] To fuck! Magic fucking!
Kate​: [Deep voice] “To magic.” Then they do shots on top of the two beers they
both have. And I was watching it and I was like, you guys should need to stop,
you’ve had too much!


Jenny​: Slow down, gentlemen.
Kristin​: There's an impending apocalypse, as usual.
Kate​: Get some water!
Kristin​: [Laughs]
Jenny​: Also Giles does give a nod to the fact that he's an unemployed librarian
with a pension for getting knocked on the head.
Kate​: Yeah. He’s not wrong.
Kristin​: Yeah. I thought it was nice that he’s self-aware of his role.
Jenny​: But meanwhile, Buffy has re-donned the white fuzzy sweater that she put
on to go into the sewers in I Will Remember You. She loves wearing it in the
sewers. She loves wearing it to spar and she also has a farm headscarf thing going
on.
Kate​: Yeah, I knew we were coming back to this scene ‘cause I wrote Buffy is
terrible kerchief, why?!
Kristin​: [Laughs]
Jenny​: Why?!
Kate​: I also wore that kerchief at the same time as I had the zigzag part in my
hair. There's so many things that I was like, I want to look like Buffy even though
I'm pretty sure this is a bad look. But I distinctly remember having one that's like
— it's a headband with a kerchief attached to it, so it's not even a real kerchief.
Kristin​: Right right.
Jenny​: Yeah.
Kate​: It's rough.
Kristin​: I think we — Jenny and I fell in the real kerchief — or did you never wear
a kerchief?
Jenny​: [Sarcastically] A kerchief.


Kristin​: A bandana?
Jenny​: I mean if you roll it up and —
Kristin​: Put it around your head?
Jenny​: Hell yeah. Like a headband. Not like your kind of headband.
Kate​: I still do that.
Kristin​: Oh wow.
Jenny​: No, not like a lady head —
Kristin​: Wow, Jenny.
Jenny​: A lady headband goes under the back of your hair and —
Kristin​: Yeah and you wear a Rambo headband.
Jenny​: [Shouts] Yes! Exactly!
Kate​: Like Naruto.
Kristin​: [Laughs] Manuto? Did you just say manuto?
Kate​: No I said Naruto.Which was my dorky anime reference. They had headbands
that — anyway, it's fine.
Kristin​: I was like, did manuto wear [laughs] bandana headbands?
Kate​: The mashup we never knew we needed.
Kristin​: Anyhow.
Jenny​: So they’re fighting.
Kate​: Time to fight, sexually.
Jenny​: Yeah, mmm. Everybody loves to do a little foreplay sparing.


Kate​: Listen, there's tension in every episode, if you look for it. But this episode,
it's got its fair share.
Kristin​: It does. There’s a lot of fighting when there should be fucking.
Kate​: Yeah, ‘cause I mean — it's fine.
Kristin​: [Laughs]
Kate​: Yeah, this part is — listen, I did karate as a kid because I was a kid in the
90s and that's what you do. And I definitely remember exchanges like this, of
dudes being like, “oh you —” and I mean I was 10 so the tension was not there, but
it was this similar thread of like, “oh, I'm sure that for a girl you're fairly strong,
give me all you've got.” And then the like, “oh god, did you break my ribs ‘cause
we're children and you kicked me in the chest.”
Kristin​: Good, yes!
Jenny​: [Laughs] Hell yeah!
Kristin​: Riley just fucking flies across the room.
Kate​: It's so good.
Kristin​: It is. I'm going to gif the shit out of that moment for all of us. Okay. So
now can I get to the witches, or what?
Kate​: Yes. ‘Cause this is the first time I officially get to talk about them with you.
Kristin​: Yes it is. And so in Hush, Jenny and I talked about how it was really
groundbreaking that for the first time everyone knew what lesbian sex was that
moving a vending machine —
Jenny​: With your minds!
Kristin​: And what I am just amazed at is it, is that not only did they see that, but
they knew that the next level of lesbian sex was removing every petal from a rose,
with your mind.
Kate​: I can't — just how obvious it is is so out of control. And I was thinking back
to the episode where Riley's hanging the lesbian alliance banner —


Jenny​: Hell yeah.
Kate​: And it's like, oh, they knew from the start of the season they were laying the
groundwork of like, “hey, we are aware of the word lesbian now. We heard about it
and we are getting into it.”
Kristin​: “We know what a lesbian is. We heard that they do witchcraft.”
Kate and Kristin​: [Laughs]
Jenny​: Hell. Yes.
Kate​: [Imitates Willow] “So we just have to make sure that we're in tune and we’re
perfectly in sync” and Tara’s like, “cool”.
Kristin​: Right. [Imitates Tara and Willow] “Let’s just hold hands again. Levitate this
rose”.
Jenny​: What can this be utilizing? I don't know.
Kate​: It's so hard to tell.
Jenny​: I think of anything.
Kristin​: We should ask somebody queer, they would probably know.
Jenny​: Yeah. Oh yeah.
Kate​: It's too bad we don't know anyone.
Kristin​: [Laughs]
Kate​: This is this is wild. If I was interested — okay, listen. I know the queer
tradition of you're on a date, you've already moved in with someone, you're making
out and you're still like, do they like me?! Are they interested in me? I can’t tell.
Kristin​: [Laughs] Yeah, totally!
Kate​: But I think I would have a hard time not being convinced by, “hey, we're
going to do this spell where we have to levitate a rose and pluck its petals off, while
we hold hands and synchronize our magic”. I'd be like, I think she might be into
me.


Jenny​: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin​: So, Ethan Rayne’s magic, I guess, gets in the way of this or whatever.
Typical — a man's energy getting in the way of sweet sapphic love, you know what
I mean?
Kate​: Although, I will say, I don't really understand how him giving a potion to
Giles interfered with rose floating across town?
Jenny​: Oh wait. [Shouts] Huh. I did not understand that there was interference
coming from Ethan Rayne.
Kristin​: Yeah, that's what's implied. ‘Cause they’re like, “there must be some
magical” — I don't know if it's the way that they — they say it is not necessarily the
potion that he’s giving him, but just that he's in town and he's a dark magic —
Kate​: Yeah maybe or the process. I just felt like it would have to be something
strong. I don't know. Anyway, whatever. It's fine.
Kristin​: The rose flies across the room.
Kate​: It does.
Kristin​: Tara says the petals are off and I want to say, ‘cause we don't know Tara
very well. We just met her. She has a stutter. She's not sure of herself in a lot of
ways.
Kate​: She’s perfect.
Jenny​: [Laughs]
Kristin​: Do you have a lot of Tara feelings, Kate?
Kate​: Oh my god, I'm holding back. I'm holding back. Listen —
Kristin​: But Tara in this moment where she makes this joke like, “well, the fucking
petals are off” It's the first moment I think of true confidence that I have seen from
her and I'm very here for it. And I was like, yeah Tara, make that joke.
Kate​: It's really good.


Kristin​: [Laughs] Ah, so then we're at Giles's house and —
Jenny​: Oh my god, I've had this hangover. Have you had this hangover?
Kate​: Yes.
Kristin​: [Laughs] Yes, definitely. Where you break the bannister right off of the
stairs?
Jenny​: [Laughs] Yeah and the phone crumbles in your hand and you look in the
mirror and you're like, what is that?
Kristin​: And he's like, [does imitation of demon Giles, in a low voice] “Ethan”.
Jenny and Kate​: [Laughs]
Kristin​: My question is how do his pants fit? Why do his pants fit?
Kate​: I think it's a Hulk sort of a science magic.
Kristin​: Some metaphidics here?
Jenny​: His pants stretched with him while he transformed overnight.
Kate​: It’s just specifically pants. That's the science of it. Pants will stay fitting no
matter what you transform into.
Kristin​: Everything else rips off.
Kate​: Yeah.
Kristin​: Thank god you're here.
Kate​: I know. If you didn't have me, what would you do?
Jenny and Kristin​: [Laughs]
Kristin​: So we cut to the — well Giles is a demon and he’s like, “what the fuck?”
That's kind of the scene summary. Right? Anyone have any points to add?
Jenny​: Well, after he rips his shirt, he takes a page out of Spike's book. The old
“wear a blanket around town” trick.


Kate​: I think people in Sunnydale are just so used to seeing demonic creatures and
or blanket wearing citizens.
Kristin​: That they’re just like, “call 911. I don't really know.”
Kate​: Seems pretty normal.
Kristin​: So this is a great demon design for Giles. I think.
Kate​: It's fun.
Kristin​: Yeah, it's very Giles. Especially with the blanket — that the blanket was
added I feel is what takes it to — yeah, there's Giles's demon for sure. Exactly what
he would look like as a demon. So anyway, then we go to the cafeteria. Willow is
wearing a famous sweater I think, here.
Kate​: Oh my god.
Jenny​: What kind of sweater was it? Describe — paint me a picture with words.
Kate​. Okay, I can.
Kristin​: Yes, please Kate.
Jenny​: [Laughs]
Kate​: So listen, I'm not entirely sure because I wasn't there when it was made. I
think it's crocheted. It's either crocheted or knit ‘cause it's loose knit, ‘cause you
can see the spaces in between the pieces of — I'm pretty sure it's wool, maybe it
might be synthetic. Listen, it's got stars on either of the boobs, that are different
colors. The one on the right side has some threads coming out. Her left my right.
And it has a rainbow neckline. It's lavender-y blue and there's a rainbow
underneath the two stars on the boobs. This sweater is burned into my memory
because it is also when she lies about where she was last night.
Jenny​: [Imitates Willow] “I was in the chem lab!”—
Kate​: [Imitates Willow] “By myself. Definitely not doing any rose magic.”
Jenny​: [Laughs]


Kristin​: Right?! That’s the gayest shit has gotten, is her lying about where she
was.
Kate​: That was the moment where I was like, oh they’re — this is happening.
Kristin​: Why are you lying Willow? Why are you lying?! And then, you know, they
have this whole conversation about Riley who cares about that when we have
lesbian witches really?! But yeah, Buffy is sort of like, “I was not giving it my all
and I still wasn’t giving it me all” —
Jenny​: Oh my god, yeah. She was holding back a little, still, even though she
kicked him across the goddamn room!
Kristin​: But Willow, is like, “you can't pretend you're less than who you are.”
Kate​: I wrote that down. I said, “you can't walk around pretending to be less than
you are.” It's a very good lesson to teach girls.
Jenny​: Hell yeah.
Kate​: To teach anyone, but especially — I dunno, I relate a lot to so many parts of
this conflict between Buffy and Riley where she's playing down the fact that she's a
superhero and, you know, not to be like, oh, I'm amazing, but I've definitely — I
feel like so many people have been in relationships where you play down your
success or your ambition or your accomplishments because you don't want to… Uh.
Kristin​: Totally. And as women specifically, that's kind of what we're taught to do.
Kate​: Yeah. When you're dating guys, especially guys who have, you know, made
you understand that they're a little bit insecure and it's rough. It's so rough. And I
think, you know, this is one of those analogies that is done really well in the show.
Whether he wants to admit it or not, whether he's being outright whiny and, you
know, all toxic masculinity, which he’s not really.
Kristin​: No, he mostly holds it together.
Kate​: I do like when she kicks him across the room and she's like, “does anything
hurt?” He doesn't say, “oh my pride” which is the obvious thing to say, but he's just
kinda like, “um, I don't know.” It's internal. He's figuring it out. So anyway, that's
my little rant. But I do like that lesson.


Kristin​: Yeah, I do too. I think that — I have moments with Riley in this episode
for sure, but overall he is trying to deal with what he's internalized and to unpack
that.
Kate​: He's aware that, you know, how he's reacting is not perfect and he's trying
to deal with it and I'll give him some credit for that.
Jenny​: Also, no matter who's doing it, getting kicked across the room is a
traumatic event.
Kate​: It's very painful.
Jenny​: So he has a lot to sort through, aside from what we already just talked
about.
Kristin​: Totally.
Jenny​: Well, Giles’ first stop in his new demonic state. Where does he go? Xander's
house perhaps? Because he's looking for a fruit punch from Xander's mom, maybe?
Kristin​: Ah wow.
Jenny​: Maybe he's like, “wait until Mrs Harris gets a load of my new horns.”
Kristin​: [Laughs] Gross.
Kate​: Oh my god.
Jenny​: But we learn very quickly that, of course, he's not speaking English,
although he's perceiving himself to be speaking English.
Kristin​: I love that, I love that.
Jenny​: Yeah, such a great little tool.
Kristin​: The first time I watched this episode, well the second time I guess, but the
first time I watched it for this, I totally forgot that he wasn't speaking in his
language.
Kate​: It's a really great detail.
Kristin​: Yeah. So they all get to Giles' house,of course —


Jenny​: And they're like, “a huge strong demon ripped this place apart” which is
accurate.
Kristin​: Anya thinks that the demon has eaten Giles ‘cause his shirt is ripped in
half. And then of course Spike becoming handier and handier with each passing
episode —
Jenny​: Oh hell yeah.
Kristin​: Can speak Fyral [laughs] so knows it’s Giles.
Kate​: I would like to nominate this moment for a distant second, well third ‘cause
we also have the witches, third sexual tension moment between Fyarl Giles and
Spike. Just specifically for the first moment when Spike's like, “Giles?!” and he's got
the cigarette and he's leaned up against the mausoleum and he's like, “is that you?
Oh I love what you've done with yourself.”
Jenny and Kristin​: [Laughs]
Kristin​: Yeah he is like, “I always knew you had it in you.” You know?
Kate​: Yeah, he's very intrigued.
Kristin​: Alright. Is it on the list? Sexual Tension Award record-keeper Jenny?
Jenny​: Yeah, it was already on the list. We were on the same page very much.
Kate​: Good, good.
Jenny​: Although Spike takes one drag of that cigarette and then throws it away.
[Shouts] In this economy?! After he's just about — he's, he's moving out, he's
about to ask Giles for money, but he's just — one drag and he's done?
Kate​: I just still wonder what vampires get out of smoking cigarettes.
Jenny​: [Shouts] He looks cool!
Kate​: He looks cool.
Kristin​: Yeah and even without breath —


Jenny​: Also, sorry, to be very clear, you don't actually look cool when you're
smoking.
Kristin​: I mean, Spike does like does.
Jenny​: Spike does, but you don't, so stop that. You're not a vampire.
Kate​: As a former smoker — look, it looks cool, but it's terrible, don’t do it.
Kristin​: It’s terrible for you. But also as a former smoker as well, it's not
necessarily just about inhaling the nicotine, it really — the habit of smoking the
cigarette is a habit in and of itself.
Kate​: I'm sorry for everyone that's being super triggered by this shit, but don’t
smoke!
Kristin​: I know. And it's awful and bad and your body will rot!
Jenny​: Okay, think about how the person who's going to make out with you is
going to have to deal with your ashtray mouth. Is that de-incentivizing?
Kate​: Yeah, I'm sure Giles was thinking about that at that very moment.
Kristin​: Giles was like, “I would make out with you, Spike, except for… Eurgh.”
Everyone​: [Laughs]
Kristin​: Giles says to, of course, Spike who's now getting paid for his efforts.
Kate​: Which I think is so great.
Kristin​: Yeah.
Jenny​: The best, the best. Also, [imitates Spike] “$100? You're going to have to do
a lot better.”
Kristin​: [Laughs]
Kate​: [Imitates Spike] “$200. Alright.” Spike’s genuinely surprised, he went for it!
It’s so good.
Jenny​: Well, you miss 100% of the shots you don't take.


Kristin​: It's true.
Kate​: It’s so true.
Kristin​: But he says, you know, “Rayne did this” and then he says, “and he needs
a good…” trails off and is like, “being killed.” And I just want to say that spanking
could have been filled in there. [Laughs]
Jenny​: [Laughs] Oh wow, a spanking from daddy?
Kate​: [Laughs] He has to be careful with all that Fyarl strength.
Jenny​: [Laughs] Oh fuck yeah!
Kristin​: Oh shit, yeah, god. Danger! I hope they have a safe word. [Laughs]
Kate​: I love that it’s you doing this first before me. That never happened. It's
amazing.
Jenny​: Yes, things have changed in your absence.
Kristin​: [Laughs] You inspire us, Kate.
Kate​: I know, I'm so glad. I had someone come up to me at a show and they were
like, “oh, I love your segments on Buffering blah blah. I'm so glad that you're there
to represent all the kinky people who listen to it.” ‘Cause they were like, “there's
this episode where Kristin and Jenny are like, ‘oh this thing that happened is weird,
it made me uncomfortable’ and then you come on Fashion Watch and you're like,
‘I'm so horny for this’”.
Jenny and Kristin​: [Laughs]
Kate​: I’m so glad, representation is so important.
Kristin​: You’re helping us all, Kate. I think you’re the reason that we said “daddy”
in the first place and now we can’t stop.
Kate​: I know! I'm honored.
Kristin​: Just loosened us up a bit.


Jenny​: [Clears throat] Great, so, yes… [Laugh]
Kristin​: Some of us more than others. Then we go to Giles’ and they're in research
mode —
Jenny​: Awww, buffy is like, “I keep thinking we should ask Giles what to do” which
is so nice because we spent the majority of the episode up to this point, seeing
Giles feel useless and unvalued.
Kristin​: Right, right. If only he was here to hear himself being valued. That would
be helpful.
Jenny​: Is there anything better than Spike driving Giles around and Giles being
like, “if you can't find third gear, don't try for third gear.”
Kristin​: No there’s not! So good.
Kate​: So good. I love the — later, the “did the demon steal Giles' car?” And Anya
going “why would he steal that car?!”
Jenny​: Yes! Amazing.
Kristin​: The Citron, Citroen? Actually Spike says it and he says — or somebody
says it in this episode and they say Citroen.
Jenny​: Oh really?
Kate​: Do they? It's a bad car.
Kristin​: Anyway, it's like front and center. It’s a main plot point in this episode.
RIP, that car. I don’t know what happens to it but it didn't look good. But yeah, the
odd couple is back at it again — fucking car. And, of course, this is one of my
favorite moments in this whole episode is when Giles is like, “I don't want to
fucking do the Demony things, I don't want to fucking —” and then he sees Walsh
[Laughs]
Jenny​: And he's like, “stop the car!”
Kristin​: [Laughs] That move he does with his fucking arms.
Jenny​: With his hands over his head? Oh my god, he looks like fucking Mrs Coach
in the credits for Friday Night Lights.


Kate and Kristin​: [Laughs]
Kristin​: Mrs Coach. Tammy Taylor?
Jenny​: Yeah!
Kristin​: Jesus. So pretty hilarious, Walsh is terrified and then fucking Riley's like,
“Professor Walsh was attacked by a demon” and I'm like, liar! She was not! A
demon, like raised his arms at her.
Kate​: Such a drama queen.
Jenny​: [Laughs]
Kristin​: They find out that silver can kill the demon. There's all this talk about the
car, we already went around that. Another new bar is in this episode ‘cause Spike is
flirting with this woman.
Jenny and Kate​: No that’s the same bar.
Jenny​: He's back getting information about — and she reveals —
Kristin​: Oh, is that the waitress he was hitting on?
Jenny​: Yes she says, “oh as soon as I saw that he was staying at that Fleabag
motel” [shouts] that Fleabag motel that has great sinks if you need to wash the
blood out of your undershirt or tank top you happen to wear while you were
accidentally killing a man!
Kate​: Pour one out for that moment.
Kristin​: My note about the motel, which you basically have just done with your
exclamation, is “all of the forbidden gay love happens here.” At the fucking motel.
Jenny​: Well yeah, at the Sunnydale Forbidden Gay Love Inn.
Kate​: The Sunnydale Motor Inn that dare not speak its name.
Jenny​: [Laughs]
Kristin​: Somebody make me fanfic that's just called the Sunnydale Motor Inn and
it's just all of the forbidden gay love pairings that happen.


Kate​: That’s so beautiful.
Kristin​: Riley has a master key to the whole town. What the fuck is that?!
Kate​: I know. Pretty weird.
Kristin​: What is that about?
Jenny​: That just doesn’t make sense.
Kate​: Also, why did he bring it up when they were approaching the door?
Whatever, it’s fine.
Jenny​: Well she probably just kicked it in real fast ‘cause she's got no time for
bullshit. She's trying to save Giles! She loves him! Dad!
Kristin​: Also Ethan Rayne just uses his fucking MasterCard at the magic shop.
Kate​: I know! Didn’t even pay cash, not doing anything to cover his paper trail.
Feels to me like somebody likes getting caught.
Jenny​: [Laughs] And possibly spanked?
Kate​: It feels like somebody might be a brat.
Jenny​: [Laughs]
Kristin​: If anyone came to this episode knowing you were guesting with us with
expectations, I believe they have been fulfilled.
Kate​: I'm just saying he misbehaves —
Jenny​: And he needs to be punished.
Kate​: Yeah, exactly.
Kristin​: You know who actually needs to be punished?
Jenny​: You know, what a bad boy weren't we just talking about bad boys recently?
Kristin​: You’re going to fall off of your chair.


Jenny​: [Shouts] I’m losing it!
Kristin​: [Laughs]
Jenny​: Um, I'm sorry, what? What were we talking about?
Kristin​: I was just going to — I didn't mean to take us off of this beautiful path
we’re on, but I did want to just highlight this moment before we leave this scene
between Buffy and Riley.
Jenny​: The power struggle!
Kristin​: Yeah. He's like, “Buffy, I can't take you with me.”
Kate​: Oh my god.
Kristin​: Actually, I'm just going to fucking play the sound clip.
[Clip from episode plays]
Buffy​: Get in the car, we’re ready to go.
Riley​: Buffy, earlier when I talked to Professor Walsh, she gave me very
specific orders.
Buffy​: Yeah?
Riley​: She said when we located the demon, I’m not supposed to bring you
along.
Buffy​: Oh.
Riley​: What are you doing?
Buffy​: I'm going to the car.
Riley​: Buffy, I can't take you with me.
Buffy​: You're not taking me with you. I am going and I am letting you come
along.


Riley​: Buffy, it’s not really your call. This is a military operation now.
Buffy​: Then call off the troops because nothing less than that is going to
stop me.
Kate​: Yeah.
Kristin​: Fuck that guy.
Kate​: So embarrassing for him.
Jenny​: Well...
Kristin​: I’m sorry,but I have a jingle that I would like to play in conjunction with
the scene.
[GO AWAY RILEY jingle plays]
Riley, you are kind of like cardboard
Your mansplaining's best to be ignored
No one cares your a TA so please
Please go away
Jenny​: Well…
Kristin​: Oh come on, Jenny.
Jenny​: Listen. It's actually — Riley has been trained and maybe even brainwashed
to follow orders. He's part of a military unit that works best if everybody's doing
their part and following orders. So that's part of his vibe. He's following orders. If
you're going to play a jingle about somebody you hate, play it about Professor
Walsh.
Kristin​: I'm going to play it about this dude telling Buffy what she can and cannot
do. I am not here for it.
Jenny​: [In disdain] Uhhhhhh.
Kate​: Look at the end of the day, yeah, he's part of a military operation. I get that
he's just doing what he's supposed to do. But she's the Slayer and who do you
think you are?


Kristin​: And that’s the thing. You all know I'm fucking here for that the patriarchy
affects everyone and it's affecting Riley in this moment, I’m totally aware of that,
but he just stepped into this and he, because of the fucking patriarchy, he thinks
that he knows better.
Jenny​: This feels less like a patriarchal moment to me and more like a military vs.
civilians. Like, “we have an operation, we're going to” —
Kate​: I think that definitely place into it. I think there's a lot of levels to it ‘cause
this moment totally annoys me. I definitely also get where he's coming from, but I
love Buffy’s reaction, you know, no matter what, I love the way she's like, “okay” —
Kristin​: She’s like, “I'm fucking letting you come with me… Ya ass”
Kate​: Yeah, it’s so badass.
Kristin​: But I see what you're saying. I will say that military mindset and
patriarchal mindset are not too far removed from each other.
Kate​: It is a Venn diagram.
Jenny​: But I feel like there's more about unit cohesion and also I just want to say
really quickly that no offense intended. Thank you for your service. When people in
military uniforms come to my shows, I cry. It is a lot. Thank you for your service,
no disrespect, carry on.
Kristin​: Yes, of course. And no, no, no I don't think anyone in here was
disrespecting people in the military for goodness sake. But the —
Kate​: This is a fake imaginary demon military, so it’s fine.
Jenny​: Right! Right, right, right. And they're just being dicks to Buffy. That's the
problem.
Kate​: Exactly.
Kristin​: And also it's Riley, so…
Jenny​: [Shouts] Oh come on!
Kate and Kristin​: [Laughs]


Jenny​: He’s just like, “my mom said I'm not allowed to take you” he's just trying to
do the right thing.
Kate​: Yeah.
Kristin​: Alright. Let's go back to the odd couple in the car.
Jenny​: [Shouts] Oh my god, Spike is like, “how are you feeling?” And Giles is like,
“like snapping ‘til everyone’s dead.”
Kate and Kristin​: [Laughs]
Kristin​: There's this car chase and Giles rolls out of the — of course, they're both
at risk with The Initiative.
Kate​: God, Ethan even made Giles into a big, mean, nasty demon.
Jenny and Kristin​: [Laughs]
Kate​: He's like, “I'm gonna let myself caught and I'm going to make him meaner
and stronger” —
Jenny​: Oops!
Kristin​: And hunkier.
Jenny​: Oops, he won’t be able to wear a shirt, it just won’t fit anymore.
Kate​: [Laughs]
Kristin​: [Imitates Ethan] “Oh no, you might be able to bench press me.”
Kate​: If he's anything like me, horns definitely work for him.
Jenny and Kristin​: [Laughs]
Kate​: Horns are a good look.
Kristin​: Oh goodness. So we're all at the motel together.
Jenny​: Oh my god.


Kristin​: Giles is fighting Buffy and Riley is fighting Rayne.
Jenny​: But Giles is, kind of like, not fighting Buffy, right? He is just kind of
deflecting and not hitting.
Kristin​: Right. Right, right, right. Spike in the interim crashes Giles’ car.
Jenny​: Dude, he is literally just driving at a loading dock. He looks over his
shoulder and then just dri —​ ​that was there the whole time! It's the only thing he
could have been pointing at. Like what the fuck? I'm glad the car is dead, however
that was ridiculous.
Kristin​: You are?
Jenny​: Well, I think it was fun. But listen — for everything there is a season turn,
turn, turn — Giles, get a new car please.
Kristin​: In case you’re wondering what that clicking noise was, it was Jenny
banging the wall behind her.
Kate​: Also, lest we forget the only power that a Fyarl demon has being petrifying
mucus, that's pointed out multiple times. I love the way that that plays out. That is
such a good bit of writing, where Spike's like, “oh yeah, you've got the mucus
thing” you know, freezes people, great in a fight. And then he's like, “nah, I'm just
fucking with you” and then when they open the book and they're like, “oh, mucus.”
It’s a real thing! I thought that was so great.
Kristin​: Yeah totally, totally. Oh God. So, fucking Buffy stabs Fyarl demon Giles
and then knows that it's him because of his eyes.
Jenny​: [Squeals]
Kate​: Awww.
Kristin​: And like, listen, she says to him — after when they're discussing it, she
says, “you're the only one who can look that annoyed with me.”
Kate​: I know. I thought that was great.
Kristin​: It is, and listen, you all — Kate, you included — have waited a long time
for this, but we have a Giles jingle for you all.


[GILES jingle plays]
Giles! Hot dad!
When you were younger you were real bad
But now you're older, you’ve got glasses
That help you watch over us!
Thank you, Giles!
Kristin​: Well.
Kate​: Oh boy.
Kristin​: Hopefully you enjoyed —
Kate​: It's been too long.
Jenny​: [Laughs]
Kristin​: Right? Giles has worked real hard to get that jingle. We're sorry for
dragging our feet, but at least it got to be in this episode.
Kate​: Genius takes time. I get it.
Kristin​: Yes. And then Giles, of course, has to get clothed again.
Kate​: Does he?
Jenny​: [Laughs]
Kristin​: Yeah, that’s a really solid point.
Jenny​: Well, Ethan —
Kate​: Well he does have to wear Ethan's clothes.
Kristin​: Jenny is playing with one strand of her hair while thinking about Giles
shirtless and it’s a lot.
Jenny​: No, I was thinking about Giles in the shiny silk, whatever that is.
Kristin​: Pretty gay.
Kate​: Isn’t it kind of like snakeskin pattern?


Jenny​: Oh god.
Kristin​: It's very real.
Kate​: It's, you know —
Kristin​: And then, of course, in — so Giles is wearing Ethan Rayne’s silk shirt and
he's like, “I'm just going to go watch the man handling” —
Kate​: [High-pitched] I know!
Jenny​: Hot, hot, hot.
Kate​: So good.
Kristin​: Oh it's really good.
Kate​: I just want to watch him struggle a little.
Jenny​: Oh my god. Although —
Kristin​: Yeah I just want to see him —
Jenny​: Ethan's very self aware like, “it's the stay in gloat that gets me every time.”
Kate​: I know. I know. Because look — with no interference, how did he expect this
to play out? That's what I'm so curious about. ‘Cause he left these clues, he left all
of this very obvious trail and he's not an idiot. I mean, he's sorta — look, I think
he's very smart about doing very bad things and he leaves this trail. Did he expect
— Giles is just going to find him and then he was going to be like, “oh no.”
Jenny and Kristin​: [Laughs]
Kristin​: [Imitates Ethan] Yeah, right? “Oops. What are you going to do about it?”
Kate​: [Imitates Ethan] “I happen to speak Fyarl.”
Kristin​: [Laughs] You know he does, too.
Kate​: He definitely does.


Kristin​: Normally we do the sexual tension awards at the very end and I know we
have a little bit left, but I think we're all really ready for it right now.
Kate​: Yeah.
[SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays]
Sexual tension award!
Jenny​: Well, here we are again at the sexiest part of the show.
Kristin​: I don't know this one might have a competition.
Jenny​: Well, here we are again at the, sort of like, collection of the sexiest peak
moments all smushed together into one thing that you get to vote on, for the
greatest moment or moments of sexual tension in this episode. Here are your
nominees. If you like, I dunno, a cardboard, vanilla ice cream, Wonder Bread,
whatever you could vote for Buffy and Riley.
Kristin​: Wow. What a set up for failure you just gave them.
Kate​: So heterophobic.
Kristin​: [Laughs] Jeez, Jenny.
Jenny​: Listen, I feel like we put Buffy and Riley out there occasionally and people
just don't want it. [Sings] Um, if you like to float a rose with your best gal pal from
Wicca group, you could vote for Tara and Willow. If you like two bad boys —
Kate​: Who doesn’t?!
Kristin​: Who doesn’t?

Jenny​: Trysting in a cemetery, you could vote for Spike and Giles for that brief
moment by the mausoleum —
Kate​: Brief but hot.
Jenny​: Brief but hot.
Kate​: Like a firework.


Jenny and Kristin​: [Laughs]
Jenny​: And then if you're a reasonable goddamn person, you could vote for Ethan
and Giles, please.
Kate​: For a lifelong love affair with no comparison.
Jenny​: Truly! Decades, decades. You can join us — make your voice heard by
casting your vote via our Twitter poll, we are @bufferingcast. The poll will be up like
now and will be up for a week. So please vote.
Kristin​: Yes. And you, of course, voted already for last week's episode, Doomed.
And I'm going to tell you about the winners, the winners, of course.
Jenny​: I think when it comes to the sexual attention awards, we're all winners.
Kristin​: We’re all winners. You're right. You're right. In last place or perhaps we
want to call it fourth place, Giles and the map. A good showing, but 11% of you
voted for them, no they did not win. In third place we have Xander and Spike’s
shiny bottom.
Jenny​: Nice.
Kristin​: Or in my poll, it was Spike's shiny peach emoji. Second place, with two
basketballs are Forrest and Riley, 28% of you.
Jenny​: [Laughs] Two basketballs.
Kristin​: And winning, much deserved, with 41% of your votes, Spike and kicking
ass.
[SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays]
Sexual tension award!
Kristin​: Wow. Well on the other side of sexy.
Jenny​: Well, you know who else likes a — I'm sorry.
Kate​: [Laughs]
Kristin​: Yes Jenny, please continue.


Jenny​: Well Riley’s all like, “you're strong, no-one's giving you orders. I like it.”
Then he kind of mucks it up by saying, “give me another week and I'll take you
down.” It’s sweet that he's optimistic like that, but he's very wrong.
Kate​: I feel like it's just — he's like, “oh, I let myself sort of be honest for a second
to... Whoops. Gotta get my pride back!” Which is I think again — he's working
through some stuff.
Kristin​: Yeah, right. This moment at first, I was like [imitates being grossed out]
eurgh, and then I was like, actually like this is a pretty reasonable and
understandable moment of joking the way you know how to joke and not knowing
—
Kate​: Because you're uncomfortable.
Kristin​: Yeah. And he —
Kate​: The vulnerability of being like “my super strong girlfriend, maybe I'm into
that.”
Kristin​: Yeah, maybe. Right. Riley has a lot to think about. And Giles has a new
phone.
Jenny​: An ingenious speaking tube, I think you mean. Through which information
can be transmitted at any time. If Buffy has anything to tell him, she can just call.
Kristin​: Right. And then of course Giles is like, “you know, Buffy, I don't want to
interfere.” And she's like, “you have butt face” and Giles is like, “the fuck?” But he's
concerned about The Initiative, he's concerned about her involvement with The
Initiative and fair point.
Kate​: Rightly so.
Jenny​: She's like, “I'm dating Riley, not The Initiative” but like isn't she dating
Professor Walsh a little bit?
Kate​: [Laughs]
Kristin​: Well she doesn't really know. I mean, Buffy hasn't had a ton of interaction
with The Initiative yet, right? She knows Riley —


Kate​: Well ‘cause Walsh says she's working on getting her clearance, she hasn't
actually seen it. She's just met Walsh and Riley.
Jenny​: Yeah, she hasn’t seen the amazing tinfoil pit.
Everyone​: [Laughs]
Jenny​: Wow.
Kate​: It's the worst set.
Kristin​: It’s really bad. And we go to it, in the next scene.
Jenny​: Wait, but first re Professor Walsh, Giles does get to say at the very end, “I
do hate her quite a lot” which is nice.
Kristin​: Yeah.
Kate​: It’s very good.
Kristin​: God, those two. And then there's this like — we go to The Initiative, we
sort of see the parallel —
Jenny​: [Gasps]
Kristin​: Jenny?
Jenny​: [Shouts high-pitched] Riley is like, “she’s the truest soul I’ve ever known”
Jenny and Kate​: [Laughs]
Kate​: And she’s like, “lord help me with these college boys spouting poetry”, or
whatever. Scary college boys in love.
Kristin​: This kind of one of the first moments we see Walsh and Riley having a
moment that's not about The Initiative.
Kate​: Well because realistically they’re gender reversed Buffy and Giles, you know,
she's the Watcher, she's the mentor and then so much of this is about what if that
is a bad relationship rather than a positive one? Which is very interesting, but also
—


Kristin​: And then she walks into a door and it's 314.
Jenny​: [Gasps]
Kristin​: 314! just like fucking Ethan Rayne said. So he did know. He knew
something. What we won't learn maybe ever, but we certainly don't learn it here.
Kate​: You remember in Halloween when he left that note for Giles and Giles looked
at the camera?
Jenny and Kristin​: [Laughs]
Kristin​: I do, I do. God.
Kate​: So good. Such a long running — I feel like if I had been working on that
show, that would be my thing where at the start of the season I was like, can I do
an Ethan episode? Can I please do an Ethan episode? I will do anything. I just want
to do an Ethan and Giles episode and yeah, it's —
Kristin​: I hope that someday one of our listeners does a super cut of you talking
about Ethan and Giles.
Kate​: I mean I have always liked them, but I think when I was younger I didn't
really understand because they have a very adult dynamic and it was more like —
yeah, I didn't really see it. And then when we started doing this and I was
rewatching a lot of it with that lens, I was like, oh my god, yes, I was very
influenced by this.
Kristin​: It’s there, it's there, it's written in there just like Faith and Buffy, it’s not
just us making it up, it’s so there.
Kate​: Yeah, absolutely. And I mean, especially in this episode and Jane Espenson
all loves a gay storyline. She puts it in everything.
Kristin​: She’s like, “I gotta get that shit in there any way I can”. I really hope that
one day we get to talk to Jane.
Kate​: Yeah, I don't think that I could. I probably — I feel the same way about
Brenda Chapman who originally wrote Brave the movie before it was taken away
from her and given to some dudes. But it's just like, [acts embarrassed] ahhh!


Kristin​: It's funny ‘cause when you were talking I was like, oh, maybe Kate could
interview Jane Espenson.
Kate​: [Laughs and pretends to cry] I would just be like, “how do you — everything
that you've done is so beautiful. How did you write all the good ones?!” She's great.
But it is a very good relationship. It's very — and it’s spanning so many seasons.
Kristin​: Truly. And, you know, Ethan was taken away by the military, but I just feel
like it's not the last we'll see of Ethan Rayne.
Kate​: With very few exceptions, you do not see Giles with a lot of female
companionship. So I'm just saying. Holding out for a hero.
Jenny and Kristin​: [Laughs]
Kristin​: Well, I think we've done it.
Jenny​: I would say we have.
Kristin​: We did it. Kate, I think everyone at this point knows where to find you, but
please tell them where to find you, what you're working on.
Kate​: Oh my gosh. Well I just finished working on the first season of High Guardian
Spice for Crunchy Roll, which is going to come out in 2019, which is pretty exciting.
My first fully written just by me episode of Transformers: Cyberverse was just out,
which is very cool. I got to write some lady robot villains, which is very dreamy. So,
yeah, I've got a bunch of cartoon stuff out now.
I start to lose track of it so you can find everything that I'm doing at kateleth.com,
or I'm @kateleth on Twitter, I'm @kateleth on Instagram, I’m @kateleth
everywhere except Tumblr where I'm still Kate or Die because, you know, I'll hold
that up forever. I don't know — other stuff that is coming up soon, so just keep an
eye on that. I, you know, announce things as they come up. I'm done with
conventions for the year, it’s time to sleep.
Kristin​: Seriously, a nap or two is in store.
Kate​: Yeah.
Kristin​: Lovely. Thank you for being with us.
Kate​: Anytime.


Kristin​: The Kate, episode of the season is always so exciting.
Kate​: It's always a highlight for me!
Jenny​: Well, I'm Jenny Owen Youngs, it can't be denied. And when I'm not
watching Buffy and making this podcast, I'm usually writing and recording songs.
You can learn more about me and hear some of those songs at
jennyowenyoungs.com/buffering and you can give me a shout on Twitter
@jennyowenyoungs.
Kristin​: Great job.
Jenny​: Thank you.
Kristin​: I am Kristin Russo and you can learn about me on my website
kristennoeline — I know it's hard to spell it so let's just play the jingle for you this
week.
[KRISTIN NOELINE jingle plays]
Kristin with an I
N-O-E-L-I-N-E
Kristin​: You can check out to my work with LGBTQ young people and their families,
learn about the work that I do over at My Kid Is Gay over there and also you can
use that spelling to find me on Twitter and on Instagram.
Jenny​: Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on Twitter, Instagram and Facebook at
@bufferingcast. And you can email us at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin​: It's true, you can and you can support the work that we do here in a few
ways. You can, of course, go to our website, bufferingthevampireslayer.com and
you can click on Patreon and join our Patreon community. We have four different
levels of giving, there's really fun things over there. It's — I mean, just go check it
out. Trust us. You can also buy some merchandise from our store, some of our pins
designed, of course, by the one, the only Kate Leth are in that store. We've got
‘smash the demon lizard patriarchy’, we have a new Buffy — well I guess it's not as
new anymore, but we have ‘Buffy forever’ t-shirts, ‘alewife’ — no, we don't have
any fish wife shirts —
Jenny​: But we do have ‘alewife’


Kristin​: But we do have an ‘alewife’ shirt. And of course you can always rate and
review us over on iTunes.
Kate​: Do all of it.
Jenny​: And, ‘til next time...
Everyone​: Awooooooo!
[Jenny performing “A New Man” off the album “Songs from Season Four” by
Buffering the Vampire Slayer]

No, I don’t know everything
Even though I’ve acted it
Held the torch, I know you did
Lighting up the worst of it
Searching through the long night that my life turned out to be
You stand by me
Spend your life protecting me
Helped me find the best of me
Never knew I needed you
Til I couldn’t lean on you
We don’t have the blood to show but know you’ll always be
My family
My family

