Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 0.18: Interview with Charisma Carpenter
Jenny:​ Support for today’s episode comes from Buffy. Buffy makes bedding that’s
earth-friendly and cruelty-free. Their latest product, The Breeze, is a comforter
made entirely from 100% eucalyptus fiber, to regulate temperature and keep you
cool and comfortable all night long. And Buffy offers a free trial, so if you don’t love
it, return it at no cost.
Whether you sleep in a coffin, or surrounded by doily pillows, or in some other
sleep configuration, your sleep experience can be made cozier by Buffy. For $20 off
your Buffy comforter, visit Buffy.co and enter code BUFFERING. That’s Buffy.co and
enter code BUFFERING for $20 off.
Jenny: ​Well, hello!
Kristin:​ [Laughs] Rusty pipes! When’s the last time we talked around these parts?
Jenny: ​[Laughing] Rusty pipes? [Kristin laughs.] But truly, my pipes are rusty.
Thanks for noticing. We are back, and we are back for one very, very, very special
purpose on this most blessed of days.
Kristin: ​It might be the most special of all purposes if you ask me.
Jenny: ​Uh, yeah, I'm sure. And if you ask a bunch of other people, probably they
would say the same thing. Today we are here to bring you our conversation with
the one and the only Charisma Carpenter.
Kristin: ​[Singing to CORDELIA jingle] Ah!
Jenny: ​You're welcome.
Kristin: ​That was off-key, but…
[Both laughing]
Jenny: ​Well, it sounded great. Can you even believe it? Can you even believe we're
here and you're about to listen to us talk to Charisma Carpenter?
Kristin:​ I can't.


Jenny: ​Me neither. Except I know that it's true. So, wow, we talked about so much
stuff. We talked about the show, we talked about politics. We want to let you all
know in no uncertain terms that there will be spoilers for ​Buffy ​and ​Angel​.
Kristin: ​Also we're not going to spoil you for what happens at the end of this intro,
but Charisma, if you're listening, keep listening because there's a little something
special for you at the end of this introduction that I personally am very excited to
share with everybody.
Jenny:​ It's really incredible. So just stay tuned for just a couple more minutes.
Kristin: ​Just a couple more, and then you know, if you want to stay tuned for like
an hour or so, you're probably going to enjoy the conversation. Before we get to
the conversation, I want to tell you about something very exciting happening in my
orbit. I am launching a podcast about ​My So Called Life​ to coincide with the 25th
anniversary of the series, which makes me feel very old. [Kristin and Jenny laugh.]
I am doing the podcast with Joanna Robinson, who you all know very well because
she is a massive friend of the pod over here. And we have launched a Kickstarter
today, this very day, over at @BoilerRoomCast. It's called ​The Boiler Room​. That's
the name of the podcast. Get it, guys?
Jenny:​ I get it. And if you don't get it, it means you're about to watch my so called
life for the first time, which is very exciting and I'm jealous of you. Jordan
Catalano’s eyelashes spring eternal.
Kristin:​ Jordan Catalano’s lean… There's a lot to talk about in the land of ​My So
Called Life​. And you can help us make it a reality, boilerroomcast.com. The
Kickstarter runs through August 23rd. There's really fun stuff that you can get over
there and we're going to be doing some ​My So Called​ live watches. We're going to
be offering some Skype calls. We're going to let you have the pilot in advance of
the launch at the end of August. There's all sorts of fun things you can find out all
about it at boilerroomcast.com. Huh-ray!
Jenny:​ That is so exciting. I thought you were just hanging out while we were on
our season break, [Kristin laughs] but apparently you've been very busy and well,
you're not the only one who's been busy. [Kristin does an evil laugh.] I'll say I've
got a song coming out this week, this Friday. This Friday, July 26 I have a new song
coming out. It's called “Vampire Weeknight” and it's the first song on my next
forthcoming EP. And I'm very, very, very, very, very excited about it. You can find
it all the usual places on July 26th.
Kristin:​ So thematic, Jenny, “Vampire Weeknight.”


Jenny: ​[Laughs] Yeah, I know. It's like really right⁠— just really hitting the vein
there.
Kristin:​ Does it go like, [singing] “I'm a vampire and I love the weeknights!”
Jenny: ​You know, I wish you'd been there at the writing session. [Kristin laughing.]
Now I'm really kicking myself. It's not quite like that, but you will be able to hear
exactly what it is like on July 26.
Kristin: ​Can’t wait.
Jenny: ​I also have a new podcast project coming soon, a little early for details, but
if you follow me on Twitter, I will keep you in the loop. So stay tuned for that as
well.
Kristin:​ I dunno why, but I almost started humming the ​Sex and the City​ theme
song as like a tease for what it is. And it's not, [Jenny laughing] it's not about ​Sex
in the City​ at all.
Jenny: ​Of all the shows, [Kristin laughing] of all the shows.
Kristin: ​We want to extend a very, very, very big thank you to so many of you
because we sold out five Skype sessions with me and five lyric sheets written by
Jenny and signed by both of us raising $1,000 in just a matter of days for
[inaudible]. You know that we talk about ​Buffy​ here, but we also talk about how the
themes in ​Buffy​ tie into our current reality, much of which is pretty horrifying right
now.
So we raised $1,000 for [inaudible] and we are going to raise more money. The
limited edition tee shirt that we used to raise money for Time's Up. It says “Be The
Thing That Monsters Have Nightmares About.” It is designed by Christine Thune.
We used it back when the Me Too movement started to raise funds for Time's Up
and we are re-releasing it for a limited time. It will be up in the store through July
31st. Just till the end of this month.
And every single shirt, 100% of the profits from those shirts will go to [inaudible]. I
think for Time's Up we raised almost $5,000 with the sales for that shirt. So if you
are one of those people who were like, “No, why is it gone?” It's back now, and it's
for a really important cause.


You can find it by going to bufferingthevampireslayer.com. Just click on “Shop” and
you'll see it right up there in the top bar with the Season Four CD, which is also
brand new.
Jenny: ​Oh yeah!
Kristin:​ Yeah, remember that guy?
Jenny: ​I do. It's full of hot hot jams. You know, I miss everyone, and I know
Kristen does too, and I'm sure you miss us a lot. So it brings me a distant,
anticipatory pleasure to remind you that we are going to be back in September. We
have our sold out show at World Cafe Live in Philadelphia on September 13th.
[Spooky voice] Friday the 13th we'll be back.
Kristin:​ [Spooky voice] Spooky!
Jenny: ​[Normal voice] And that episode will go live in the feed on September 18.
Hooray! It’s who? Ray. It feels far away, but it also is less far away than it's ever
been, up until now.
Kristin: ​That's true. And you know what's even less far away, is some really fun
shit coming your way. If you're a patron of ours today, obviously you're about to
listen to our interview with Charisma Carpenter, which is pretty great. If you're a
patron tomorrow you'll get⁠— You get Cordelia day one, and tomorrow you will get
Cordette, Cordette #1, if you ask me. Mercedes McNabb, who plays Harmony in the
series. I sat down with her several months ago, we had a great conversation. And if
you're a patron, you get that conversation in full tomorrow. So that's exciting.
Also, I did a comic book club, the first one. The next one is on August 28th we're
talking about the BOOM comic series, the ​Buffy​ comic series done by BOOM. The
first one was really, really fun and I'm very excited to do the next one. We'll be
talking about issues three and four on August 28th. Also, Jenny, you've been doing
some stuff over in the Patreon-land. Yes, you played a concert. How did that go?
Jenny: ​Yes. I played a little streaming concert in our secret Facebook group for the
patrons of some buffering songs and it was so fun. I had a blast. I accidentally left
my phone vertical for the whole thing, [Kristin and Jenny laughing] so sorry about
how it looks in the feed where it lives forever. But uh, I'll be doing another one on
August 17th and I will be orienting my phone correctly.
Kristin: ​Wow, something to look forward to. Also you can join us on September
7th, when we will be doing our live watch of “Buffy vs Dracula” in anticipation of


that live event. You can all watch that episode together with us if you're one of our
patrons at any level.
Jenny: ​Yes!
Kristin:​ I think we've talked just about enough to bring us to the thing that I think
we've all been waiting for. Charisma doesn't even know that she's been waiting for
it, but we did a little something, didn't we, Jenny?
Jenny: ​We did. And mostly you did it. It was your idea. It might be the best idea
you've ever had.
Kristin:​ I think it might be the best idea I ever had. I definitely cried a couple of
joyful tears while I put this together. Over 50 of our Scooby's sent in their version
of what you're about to hear so that we could all sing this to you, Charisma,
together because today is your birthday, your real life actual birthday. And we
wanted to send you some birthday love.
Jenny: ​Happy birthday, Charisma!
[Audio of 50+ Scoobies singing “Happy Birthday”]
Happy birthday to you!
Happy birthday to you!
Happy birthday, dear Charisma!
Happy birthday to you!
[One Scooby]
And many more!
Kristin: ​Wow!
Jenny: ​Oh my God, that was so beautiful.
Kristin: ​It's so beautiful! It's so beautiful. It's like some of the, some of the single
files were like, like really professional singers. And some of them were like,
definitely not professional singers. And then like some were kids and some were…
And like, the thing that made me feel so powerful about it is that like when they all
came together, they were the most beautiful, you know?
Jenny: ​It sounded like a beautiful choir of humanity.
Kristin: ​It did. It really did. So we hope that you enjoyed Christmas. We hope you
have a very happy birthday.


Jenny: ​Happy birthday.
Kristin:​ And let's get into the damn interview, shall we?
Jenny: ​Please.
[​Buffering the Vampire Slayer​ theme song plays.]
Kristin: ​We're sitting here with somebody. She's not a big deal. I don't think, too
much to the show or our podcasts.
Jenny: ​Right. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin:​ Yeah. But like I think maybe they might be into it that we're sitting here
with Charisma Carpenter. Hi.
[Jenny quietly screams.]
Charisma:​ Hi, guys!
[Kristin and Charisma laughing.]
Kristin:​ I think that you learned about us from our listeners. I think that that's how
this all happened. You were our first jingle. The first jingle we ever made was for
Cordelia.
Charisma: ​Are you going to play it for me?
Kristin:​ Would you like us to play it for you?
Charisma: ​I kinda do!
Kristin:​ So, this is hysterical. I’ll play it. I think I have it in my iTunes right now. So
let’s just… give me one second.
Jenny: ​It's the jingle that launched a thousand jingles.
Kristin:​ You actually have two jingles now.
Charisma:​ I have two jingles?!


Kristin:​ And I don't have… Also, maybe I could find the second one. You do
because we made you a jingle for ​Buffy,​ for your⁠— for Cordelia's arc on ​Buffy​, the
very first jingle in our universe.
Charisma:​ Aw!
Kristin:​ And then we have a spinoff podcast for ​Angel​ that Jenny and I don't host,
but it's like in tandem with our discussion of ​Buffy​ to go every other week. And so
when Cordelia got her visions, we revamped, no pun intended, the jingle. So it's a
little more hardcore.
Charisma:​ Oh!
Kristin:​ But I'm going to play you the original jingle.
[CORDELIA jingle begins to play]
Charisma: ​[Laughs] It’s harp-y!
Jenny: ​Yes.
[CORDELIA jingle continues]
Cordelia! (Ah!)
I love you, Cordelia! (Ah!)
You’re perfect, Cordelia! (Ah!)
[Charisma laughs.]
Charisma:​ Aw!
Jenny:​ Wow! And season one⁠— it's just like…
Kristin: ​Yeah!
Jenny:​ Cordelia rocks. Like we⁠— It was so fun to like come back into like⁠— Kristin
had only seen the series one time. I'd seen it a bunch of times before we started
the podcast. So like we kind of like had a handle on like how much Cornelia grows
and changes over the span of the whole of ​Buffy​ and ​Angel.​ So like, even when,
you know, even when she is like her most cutting, before you like really start to see
like the layers in the vulnerability and stuff, we have like nothing but love for
Cordelia.


Charisma:​ That so sweet, because I would imagine the harp-Cordelia version
would be maybe later [Jenny laughs] when she deepens. So it's interesting that you
went with love when she was such… a bitch. [Kristin and Jenny laugh.] So
one-dimensional, definitely dependable to, you know, slice and dice a person with a
word. You know, it's just kind of funny that you went with such a soft, loving,
tender jingle for someone so awful.
[Kristin and Charisma laugh.]
Kristin:​ I think it was two things for us. I think in the beginning it was probably like
we thought we were separating our knowledge of Cordelia's long arc, but probably
we didn't completely. [Charisma laughs.] Like we always know where you're going
and⁠—
Charisma: ​Well, I love it and I think it's sweet and I just want you to know that
I've downloaded it [Kristin and Jenny laugh] and it's a part of my ringtones.
Kristin: ​Amazing.
Jenny: ​Perfect.
Kristin: ​So when people call you, it's just Jenny singing to you, “Cordelia.”
Jenny: ​Great, great.
[Kristin and Jenny laughing.]
Charisma: ​No, it’s only people that are on the show.
Kristin: ​Wait⁠—
Jenny: ​Oh⁠—
Charisma: ​I assign them to people that are on the show with me.
Jenny: ​⁠—my⁠—
Kristin: ​Really?
Charisma: ​Yeah.
Kristin: ​Wow.


Jenny: ​⁠—​god.
Charisma: ​So it's not like my overall, like if my son calls, I have Stewie, you know,
where he goes, “Mom. Mom. Mommy!” [Kristin and Jenny laugh.] And then certain
people have certain, you know, jingles or whatever. But anybody that's in my cast
of ​Angel​, ​Buffy​ or whatever, it's the “Cordelia.”
Jenny: ​Wow.
Charisma: ​So I know who's calling.
Jenny: ​That’s amazing.
Kristin: ​What a way to start this interview.
Jenny: ​Truly.
[Charisma laughs.]
Kristin:​ Just flooring us completely.
Charisma: ​Well I’m a fan of you guys, and I love and appreciate you. So it's, um,
it's sweet. But yes, I found out about your podcast through… I kept getting
Twitter⁠— and I do see them, but I just dismissed it, I guess. I don't know. I guess
the, I am in a space right now since the 2016 election of that cretin, and I'm sorry
if you're a Trump fan.
[Kristin and Jenny laugh.]
Kristin: ​I don’t think any of them are here.
Charisma: ​I seriously doubt this is the audience for that. But I'm just gonna say
like, everybody's entitled to their opinion. It's free speech. This is America, and I'm
not a fan of our president. [Sarcastically] Shocker.
[Speaking normally] But on Twitter, I mean, that's really just been my focus for the
last two years. So when I saw the ​Buffering​ podcast tweets, you know, not from⁠— I
didn't see anything from you directly, I don't recall, but I remember it kind of
coming through and coming through.
And then finally I was at a convention recently and somebody was just like, “​Listen,​
[Kristin and Jenny giggle] there’s this podcast, it's amazing. And they're so devoted
to you and the show and you should learn about it and you should find out about


it.” I'm like, “Oh, okay. Oh gosh, let me get on this.” I feel like I'm out of the loop
and they were so passionate about it and they're just such big fans of you guys that
I guess you just do a fantastic job. And then I started, you know, researching you
and listening to some of your stuff and I heard the jingle, they played it for me, so I
downloaded it. So you guys are, I'm kind of a big deal.
[Kristin and Jenny laugh.]
Kristin: ​Wow. You're really turning the tables on us. [Charisma laughs.] It's funny
though that you bring up the election because it, it has been, I think one of the
reasons that the podcast, for us, has taken the shape and the form that it's taken
because we started doing the podcast two months before that election. Completely
unaware of the fact even that we were about to come upon the 20th anniversary of
the show. And ​definitely​ unaware of everything that was about to happen to our
country and politics. And so we were talking about Buffy and the characters and
feminism and the show and, you know, fighting evil and all this stuff…
Charisma:​ And how it, you know, actually is a metaphor for our real life
circumstances.
Kristin: ​Exactly. And I think that's why, you know, the wonderful humans, and if
you're listening to this, you know who you are, you're the reason that we're sitting
here having this interview. So thank you. But the reason that they're so passionate
is I think partly because of the love that they have for the show, and how that love
translates to helping us get through some of these difficult times that we're facing
now.
Charisma: ​Well, absolutely. And I think, you know, much like the themes of ​Buffy
the Vampire Slayer​ and how they're Shakespearean in theme, and how you can
translate sort of the literature of those days and make them current today through
the voice of Joss, and David Greenwald, and to Tim [inaudible] and Marty Noxon,
and David fury. Like all these wonderful writers that came along, that their voice is
able to resonate with an audience that can transport themselves to their experience
in high school. And how you have hyena, and how they run in packs, and evil, and
Cordelia, and the Cordettes, and how very real that is. And then the metaphors and
how it translates to modern day and how people feel. They’re universal themes.
Kristin: ​Yeah.
Charisma: ​And so I think too, it's divine intervention that you guys came upon it at
the time of the 20 year reunion, that it was actually this administration that has
launched a thousand feelings and that there is this as an outlet. And you're helping
people, you know, that's one of the greatest things about doing the podcast⁠— not


the podcast, but the cons that I do is because I get to interface with fans. And I
never really took my job, I took it seriously, but I didn't think I was like a
neurosurgeon. And I'm not like healing cancer and I'm not healing people.
But what I've really found out from fans is that the show really did heal people. And
it's sentimental and it's a thread of a bigger fabric of people's lives, you know?
Where they're associating the show and the themes and healing themselves and
having better and greater understanding of the bullies because they see Cordelia's
transition and that they're⁠— hurt people hurt people. And that also in real life,
they're bonding with a sick mother that's dying of cancer. And that's the one thing
that they had in common. And they get to come together. You know, it's such a
fabric, all of us. And we're all so connected and that we have this universe together,
this sort of community.
Kristin: ​Yeah.
Jenny: ​Mh-hmm.
Charisma: ​And that you're just elevating that community. So that's amazing.
Kristin: ​It's been, it's been really powerful. And we knew obviously that there was
such a massive fandom for the show before we started. But, I think⁠—
Charisma: ​Which you were a part of.
Kristin:​ Which we were a part of, well, we were a part of it, but I don't think that
we were a part of it to the depth of which people are a part of it. And now we are a
part of it. Like, I think that would be like really gotten much, much deeper in our
love for not only the series but the community that exists around it.
Charisma: ​That's exactly how I feel like the fans have deepened my appreciation
for the work I did. It's provided, not that you should get yourself esteem from
others, but it's made me appreciate the work that I did and that and what a
privilege it was to get to do that work and that it touched so many people's lives.
It's just mind bending.
Kristin:​ Right, and continues to.
Charisma: ​Yeah.
Kristin: ​I mean, I don't know if you know this, but our podcast is spoiler free. This
interview will not be spoiler free, but our podcast is spoiler free because so many
people are listening to the podcast while they watch the series for the first time.


Charisma: ​How​ do you do that?
[Charisma laughs.]
Jenny:​ It’s very tricky.
Charisma: ​That’s so challenging.
Jenny: ​And so many people, like so many people who are like around our age are
watching with their kids⁠—
Charisma and Kristin:​ Yes!
Jenny:​ ⁠—for the first time, which is amazing.
Charisma: ​I know. Imagine meeting people and they named their daughter
Cordelia.
[Jenny laughs.]
Kristin: ​We have, we have a handful of people who are so excited that we made a
jingle for their daughters, like who are like, “Here's a video of my baby listening to
the Cordelia jingle!”
Charisma: ​Oh my god, that’s so touching!
Kristin: ​Yeah!
Charisma: ​Amazing.
Kristin: ​It really is more powerful than we realized and I'm sure that you've had
that experience over many years.
Charisma: ​Yeah it’s mind⁠— You know, it's funny because you're, I guess to a
certain extent, you cross a line where you embrace a… Okay. So from my, from my
point of view, I can't be that into it because then it's narcissistic, right?
Kristin:​ [Laughing] Right.
Charisma:​ You know what I mean?
Kristin:​ That would be very Cordelia of you.


Charisma:​ I can't be ​that ​into that show. There's gotta be sort of like this removal,
like that was just a part I played. Right? What I've learned and, and age does this
and cons and my interaction with fans have taught me is that it's okay to really
embrace and love the show and to be a nerd in it and to embrace that love and to
embrace that appreciation. It's sort of taught me to see the show from the outsider
in rather than being the insider. Does that make any sense?
Kristin: ​A hundred percent.
Charisma:​ Like it's been really transformative. Just my encounters and embracing
the cons and interacting with them and listening to their stories. It’s just
phenomenal.
Kristin: ​I think there's something really powerful, too, that we've seen as we've
done this journey or you know, we're like halfway through, I guess more than
halfway through the journey now. But that people, the way that people relate to the
characters on the show then deepen even when and for us to like as we sit down
with people who are on the show, it's just one after another after another person
who is ​phenomenal​ and wonderful and open and kind and caring and engaged in
politics. Like just like there's so much good in the humans that were involved in
making this show⁠—
Charisma:​ Aw.
Kristin: ​⁠—that it seems like that has to be a part of why the show was as magical
or the shows were as magical as they were.
Charisma: ​And really good writing.
[All laugh.]
Charisma:​ It really does just start on the page. I mean, it just be⁠— What I think
Buffy has created was a platform for all of us to jump into an embrace or not
embrace or what have you. But I think there is some truth to that, but… I'd like to
believe anyway that there is a lot of truth to that. Because I'm a part of that and I
would like to believe I'm a good human or do my best to be as human as possible,
you know, good, bad and the ugly. I mean, we were all of it. We're one. But that is
something to think about. You know, it's sweet.
Kristin:​ So should we, should we backtrack⁠—
Charisma:​ Sure!


Kristin:​ ⁠—and start at the beginning of this whole journey? I mean, we're
obviously, we want to have more of a conversation about the bigger themes and all
that too. But I think⁠—
Charisma:​ I’m here for it!
Kristin: ​[Laughing] I think that everybody would love to know⁠—
Charisma:​ This might be a two parter.
[All laugh.]
Charisma: ​Cause I ​chat.​ I’m chatty!
Kristin:​ No, when we sat down to talk with James, like we literally did speak for
like an hour and a half to two hours.
Charisma: ​I’m not surprised.
Kristin:​ Yeah. And he was like, “So we'll do this again some time.” We were like,
“Great! Sure! We'll talk to you for as long as you want to talk.”
Charisma:​ He really is so great with… I mean, he unlike me embraced it early. He
was, he was able to do that and see that and sooner than me. And I think he has
influenced me for the better in that regard. I've seen him interact with his fans and
I've seen the joy that he brings people and it's really affected me too. And I, and
I'm honored to, you know, attend as many cons as he has with⁠— and be beside him
in that I, I'm open, I'm learning, you know, as I go.
Jenny:​ If you don't mind, if it's not too elementary, would you talk to us a little bit
about like how you got⁠— and like how you came to acting and how you came to be
on ​Buffy​ specifically?
Charisma: ​Sure. I was working at Mirabelle restaurant on Sunset Boulevard. I
came to Los Angeles for a boy.
Jenny:​ Aha!
Charisma:​ That I was in love with. We met in high school, so we had dated on and
off for like five years, but I didn't really kind of take that relationship that seriously.
And then I came to visit one time and I… we fell in love. And so eventually we
decided, we move in. And I moved to Los Angeles and I⁠— The plan was to go back


to school and I hadn't even taken an SAT. I hadn't done any of that. So I had to
wait to get my residency, if you will, so I could not pay the higher tuition fee in Los
Angeles. And I was going to go to Santa Monica, get my AA degree, and then move
on to teaching. I wanted to be a teacher and that was the plan. And then life
happened.
[Kristin and Jenny laugh.]
Charisma:​ And I was, uh, seen, spotted, whatever you want to say. Somebody
said, “What are you doing with your life? Are you an aid? Are you a model? Are you
an actor? What are you doing?” And I'm like, “Oh, no, no, I, I just moved here and
I'm going to go to college to be a teacher.” And they were like, “You know, you
should probably try this whole commercial thing at least because you could earn a
living and have more time for your studies so you don't have to work a five hour
shifts for like $2 an hour.”
Kristin:​ Right.
Charisma: ​I mean, cause that's how old I am. [Kristin laughing] That's what
minimum wage was. I said, “That sounds like an amazing idea! Where do I sign up
for that?” “Well, I have a friend,” and I went to go meet this commercial agent
named Gordon Rail who is also on Sunset Boulevard. I just walked right over. And
he said, “Let's take some test photos.”
And I started going on commercials and I started booking commercials. And then⁠—
I went to the School for Creative Performing Arts as a child, and I had been a
performer my entire life, since I remember. Like five years old. I was in ballet class
and then around seven or eight. I was a part of a talent trip in Las Vegas called the
Young Entertainers, for which I'm writing something that may or may not ever go,
but I'm writing something, to speak to that experience⁠—
Jenny:​ Oh, wow.
Charisma: ​⁠—which is hilarious. [Kristin and Jenny laugh] Just these young
optimistic, you know, young group of kids singing, “I Am A Promise” to a bunch of
lounge lizards. [Kristin and Jenny laugh.] It's just going to be amazing. So that's
kind of my long overhauling plan, but to kind of be more brief⁠— I'm terrible! I’m so
frickin chatty!
[Jenny laughing.]
Kristin: ​No one here wants you to be brief, so don’t worry about it.


Charisma:​ Okay! So I go meet Gordon rail, I take my pictures, I'm booking
commercials. I eventually get to quit Mirabelle restaurant and pursue acting, which
was ​not​ the plan! I go to Playhouse West. I'm studying with Robert Carnegie over
there. Jeff Goldbloom was on the board of trustees. I guess he was casting a movie,
which the name of it I don't recall. And he saw me after class and said, “I'm about
to start this movie. I was wondering if like to come in and audition for it?” And I
said, “Hell to the yeah.”
I go to the audition and the scene is this, you know, rebellious teenage girl that's
being told by her parents what to do and she is rebelling. Shocker. [Jenny laughs]
And there is a moment in this scene where I'm in the audition and I've never
auditioned in my life before, but I'm in acting class so I know what to do if you will.
And there was this moment where he stands up and he really became my dad and
he was like, “You are not doing this and you will, we'll do this and dah, dah, dah.”
And I was in it. I believed in the situation. I was listening to him, I was reacting to
him. And everything that I was saying and I had planned to say went out the
window and we were acting. And that moment was ​it.​ This is what I want to do for
the rest of my life, this moment to moment just being transported to this other
place, this other relationship and believing 110% in it. And it felt fucking amazing. I
can say that right?
Jenny: ​Wow.
Kristin:​ You sure can.
Jenny:​ Oh, yeah.
[Kristin and Jenny laugh.]
Charisma: ​It was ​amazing​. And I left that audition not caring if I got the part,
which I didn’t. Spoiler alert, I did not get the part. Alicia Silverstone did.
Kristin:​ Oh wow.
Charisma:​ Who I ended up later working with. I never told her this story. I should
probably tell her the story. [Kristin and Jenny laughing] But anyway, I'm leaving
the audition and I mean I felt like Mary Tyler Moore, you know, in that moment
where she's tossing her hat in the air and it's like, “This is it,” you know, and I'm
walking, it's like this romantic thing where I'm walking down the street between
these huge stages and warehouses where you know, history is being made and film
and television and I'm walking down and I'm like, “This is my life. This is what I
want to do.”


Kristin: ​And then you did!
Charisma: ​And then I ​did​. [Kristin and Jenny laugh.] I did! I got to be a lucky one.
Kristin: ​Wow. So that moment happened.
Charisma:​ Yeah.
Kristin: ​You didn't get that part but you were transformed.
Charisma: ​No, I didn't care because that was, that wasn't the point. The point was,
and this is still my philosophy when I go into auditions, it's not about the result for
me. It's 100% of the process. Did I do what I was set out to do? Did I do a good
job? Would I hire me? You know, and I think I'm my biggest critic and I can walk
out of a room or walk in, I can have that experience and be like, “I don't know if I
got that part, but that was fucking amazing, and they're stupid if they don't hire
me.”
[All laughing.]
Kristin: ​Right, right. A good philosophy for many things.
Charisma: ​Not stupid, but you know, like their loss. Because I'm invested and I
believed and I feel like I'm right for the part and for whatever reason, that's where
you can't take it personally when you don't get it, cause you don't know. I could
remind somebody of their ex wife and they'd be like, “Fuck that bitch. [Kristin and
Jenny laughing] I don’t wanna look at that face for the rest of my life or the next
seven years or whatever.”
Jenny: ​Right, right, right.
Charisma:​ It's not personal.
Kristin: ​So then where does ​Buffy​ fall on the timeline for you? You know, from that
moment. How long was it before you⁠—
Charisma:​ It wasn’t that much longer. Let's see, I did ​Malibu Shores.​ So I mean I
probably was in acting class solely and didn't have an agent or anything, cause I
didn't have an agent then. Probably two years maybe. I was in acting class for a
year and then I was doing commercials and then I booked ​Malibu Shores​. So I was
working on that show. And then the audition for ​Buffy​ came through and I, you


know, was obviously on ​Malibu Shores.​ So I agreed to do the audition. I auditioned
for Buffy, me and the rest of the town.
[Kristin and Jenny laugh.]
Charisma:​ Well what happened was I read for Buffy, which was a monologue and⁠—
really long one⁠— and I had to study the whole night before. And then the next day I
read and they said, “Can you go prepare⁠—” Like on the spot, “Can you go outside
and here are the sides for Cordelia, and go read for her.” And I was like, “Sure. My
worst nightmare. Of course, no problem.”
[Kristin laughs.]
Charisma:​ “Um, so let me just go do that real quick and memorize this super fast.”
But you know, when you're young, you don't care? It's like, you just roll with it. I
want that back. That sense of invincibility. You know, like when you get older you
just become more fragile. I think you just get more caught up in things. Like that
carefree⁠— it's, it's actually a thing. It's, developmentally speaking, it's a thing.
Jenny:​ Oh, yeah. Well you don't know, like how much pain you can experience.
Kristin:​ Exactly.
Charisma:​ That, too! That’s a very good point!
Kristin:​ That’s why your carefree, is cause like you haven't fallen on your face.
Generally speaking, when you're younger, you haven't fallen on your face too many
times to be afraid of it.
Charisma: ​True. True. So you know, all you kids, [Kristin and Jenny laughing] you
know, enjoy that invincibility.
Jenny:​ While you got it.
Charisma:​ So yeah, of course I go out there and then like I did a great job and
then they brought me in to read for the network, which was Garth Davies at the
time and Joss Whedon. So that day that I was testing for Cordelia, I was working
on a set of ​Malibu Shores​, which was shooting way, way, way down in Long Beach.
Jenny: ​Oh, woah.
Charisma:​ And the audition for ​Buffy​ was way, way, way North in Burbank.


Jenny: ​Oh God.
Charisma:​ Like deep Burbank, [Kristin and Jenny laughing] like the ranch, not the
Warner brothers right there and Barham. It had to be the ranch, even further,
right? So it was, and it was ​raining.​ And it never rains!
Jenny: ​Oh no!
Charisma: ​It was rush hour, right? So I was in my little Nissan Sentra, you know,
two windows, no air, it rush hour traffic still, in my outfit. I said to the costume
designer, “Can I please wear this outfit for my audition? Dah, dah, dah.” They're
like, “Sure, that's fine.” I'm like driving my car and I had a beeper then.
[Charisma laughing.]
Kristin: ​Oh, now⁠— there we are!
Jenny:​ Yes!​ Yes!
Charisma: ​I literally have bet⁠— So I asked the Teamsters on ​Malibu Shores,​ what
is the fastest way to get to the Warner Brothers Ranch? And they gave me these
directions, which by the way, I think might've been the slowest way to get there
possible. [Kristin and Jenny laughing.] So I'm on like, I don't know, I'm on the 405
South to the 710 to the 101 North to get off on Barham. Around the 101 to Barham
was the longest stretch. I mean, just shorter in distance, but the longest in traffic.
So, and it's raining and it's nighttime now. And I get the, I've been getting about
five 911 calls from my agent at the time named Wendy Green. God bless her. And
I'm like getting⁠— now I'm getting annoyed like “I don't have a phone, I'm just
stuck in⁠— what the⁠— what is she possibly gonna tell me right now?” So I pull off
and there's a liquor store on the corner of, not on the corner, at the on and off
ramp of the 101 and Barham. There's aliquor store with a payphone. So I pull over
cause there were no cell phones, and if they had them I was too poor to have one.
So I, you know, dial my agent and I'm like, “What's up?” She's like, “Where are
you? They want to leave. They're starving.” I go, “You tell them to order a large
pizza because I've been in traffic ​for an hour​ and they are going to see me.” Like
who says that? Who says⁠— like the balls on this girl.
Jenny:​ Uh, Cordelia.
Charisma:​ Yeah, I know! Right?


Kristin: ​They were like, “She’s got the part.”
Charisma: ​You know what, that's true. So I tell Wendy, I’m like, “Do not let them
leave. I am literally a Barham. I will be there in 15 minutes or less. I'm doing my
best to get there. This has been ​quite a drama for me​. So I feed them and tell them
to stay put.” And she says she's⁠— I think she was aghast at my like attitude.
Jenny: ​Right.
Charisma:​ You know, so I hang up the phone cause I'm kind of pissed like, “You're
not leaving! You don’t know what I've been through to get here.” And so I get there
and it's them and they couldn't be nicer. They couldn't⁠— Like I don't think they
were really hungry. I think you know what, you know, I don't know what the
assistant told my agent, that told, you know what I mean? Who knows what the
after-truth is?
So I get in there and I read and I leave. I do a great job. I feel great about it,
anyway. I dunno if I got it. I think I got it. I⁠— I got it.
[Kristin and Jenny laughing.]
Kristin: ​Spoiler.
Charisma:​ So I walk into the other room, they asked me to wait, which is always a
good sign. So I go in the other room and I see a phone, and I call my agent and I
go, “I just want you to know that I got the part.” She goes, “Don't say that!” And I
go, “I got the part. I'm just telling you, I know these things. I can feel it And I got
the part.” And so she's like, “You know, okay.” And I hang up. Then they come out
and they're like, “That was great, thanks. You're done.” And I was like, “Maybe I
didn't get the part.”
So then I leave and again, I get a page [Charisma laughing] and I'm in my car and
I have no phone. So, much more relaxed at this point, I get home and I get a
phone call and I⁠— You know, those were the days when decisions were made on
the spot. Like by the time I drove from Burbank to my house in Beverly Hills, which
sounds pretentious, but let me, let me tell you: it's not.
This was the reality of my Beverly Hills lifestyle: I had a studio apartment. It was a
matchbox, seriously. And I shared it with a roommate. And our beds were side by
side. And I had a golden retriever and she had a dog. So there's four of us⁠—
Jenny:​ Oh my god.


Charisma: ​⁠—600 square feet or 450 square feet. I'm really not sure, but it was
tiny. ​And uh,​ ring, ring.​ I pick up the phone. “You got the part.” And that's my
story.
Kristin: ​Wow.
[Charisma laughs.]
Jenny: ​Woo!
Kristin: ​That story was so rooted in 1995 or wherever we were in time.
Jenny: ​Yeah, right?
Kristin: ​You know, the pager, the no cell phone. Right!
Charisma:​ [Laughing] 911! The payphone, ugh.
Kristin:​ Part of that story I think like really tickled both of us for exactly the reason
that you said Jenny, like who would do that? Who would say that? Like Cordelia.
Literally Cornelia. And I think that that might be a good segue into talking about
the character of Cordelia and her arc. Cause you called us out, like that jingle’s so
loving, but she was a total bitch at first.
Charisma: ​Mh-hmm.
Kristin:​ Cordelia has this massive arc and so I wonder at that moment when you
got the part, what did you know? Like what did anyone know of Cordelia? Was
she⁠— Did she already have some of her arc? Did you know anything of where she
was going?
Charisma:​ No. Nope. I knew nothing. Unlike maybe other people⁠— First of all, they
don't really… I suppose if I could have walked into the writer's office and said,
“What's up next?” But I didn't know that was my place. Like to be honest with you,
I was so new to it. I really⁠— I was on another show before this that was great. We
did maybe eight episodes.
And truly I'm a very anxious actor and so I was constantly in survival mode, I feel
like. And I was managing my own expectations, my own expectations for the scene.
And it was really all very, in that moment I was very present in present day and
very clear. I wasn't looking down the road. I did have⁠— And I think I could relax. I
didn't have to think like that because I knew the quality of people behind, behind


the curtain. So there was really no concern and I was just grateful, you know, to
have the job.
I didn't even know I had that kind of say. You know what I mean? I don't know how
to explain it or how to articulate what I'm saying. I wasn't the lead of the show, I
was a supporting cast. This was technically speaking, maybe my 10th time on
camera when we shot the pilot.
Jenny:​ Wow.
Charisma:​ So it was really about me⁠— Okay, I'm exaggerating, maybe 15th time.
[Kristin and Jenny laugh.] Cause I did do ​Josh Carribean​ and couple of and
Baywatch​ or you know, like a couple of things. But literally is as far as having to
also to keep in mind is the way Joss writes in the language he uses is very unique
to Joss writing. And you know how you have a point and his way of speaking is to
identify everything except the point. So, and I wish I could give you a well
articulated example, but you talk backwards. It's sort of like Yoda speak.
[Jenny laughs.]
Charisma:​ And that's a very unique tone and style of his writing. So it's new and
it's not something I was familiar with so I had to learn it. So I was very in the
moment, is the best way to explain it. So I didn't, I wasn't worried about tomorrow.
I was just too busy to deal with today.
Jenny: ​As you progressed on the show, was there a moment when you sort of like
realized that the character you were playing was transforming or expanding from
like just being kind of like this, like cold, tough, guarded, very popular⁠—
Charisma: ​Was she though?
[All laugh.]
Kristin:​ Wow!
Charisma: ​Was she popular? Or just feared?
Jenny: ​I guess it’s sort of like⁠— or just feared. Well, one way or another she was
like wielding the power, right?
Charisma: ​Yes, yes.


Jenny:​ Was there a moment when you started to realize you were like your
character was transitioning from that to, to becoming, you know, more?
Charisma:​ Sure.
Jenny:​ Like starting to like peel back layers and see that vulnerability, the softness
and her sort of like golden hearted potential, I guess?
Charisma: ​So, two responses. One was literally a hammer on my head by David
Greenwalt. There was a scene, we were shooting “Homecoming.”
Jenny: ​[Whispering, excited] Yes.
Charisma:​ And I had the spatula in my hand⁠—
Jenny:​ [Loud, excited] Yes!
[Kristin laughs.]
Charisma:​ ⁠—and I was really frustrated. I was frustrated with the character. And I
said to Greenie too, two times, I've said to Greenie, two⁠— I had two moments
where I was frustrated with the character. Like, is she a slut? And I don't know how
I feel about that. And Greeny's response was, “I think she knows her way about⁠—
around a dude.” You know, something to that effect. And, and it was almost like,
“Why would you want to have to apologize?” And I was very, I was conservative
and I was going through my personal stuff, which was reconciling fame, money and
faith at the same time I'm working on this vampire show.
Jenny: ​Sure.
Charisma:​ Which were bringing up all of my character defects, right? So I needed
to latch onto something personal to me to stay grounded because I was feeling not
grounded. I wasn't feeling rooted. I didn't, I wasn't sure what was happening, what
was going on. So I was really seeking for something to hold onto. So I latched onto
Catholicism and, um [laughs] which was an interesting choice at the time, but it
was all I knew.
And so I was seeking my confirmation, and I've never really spoken about this. So I
was going through two years of catechism classes every Wednesday and Sunday
for, you know, two or to three hours each day for two years, and then I sought my
confirmation. And during that time I was reconciling premarital sex, my faith, all of
this stuff, all of these themes, these personal things are going on in tandem with
this vampire show. Which is bringing in all these other themes in my life.


And it was really an eye, like my brain, the top of my head was just exploding with
themes, ideas, faith⁠— Just layers and layers of stuff. And so then I was faced with,
you know, “Is she a slut and how do I feel about that?” And “Is this a betrayal of
me and my faith?” You know, “Is this a problem for me and why is it a problem?”
Like I was questioning that my faith and the Catholicism and what they were
putting on me and then also the show and then also what was my own⁠— I had all
these points of view and then I was trying to find my own point of view within those
points of view. Not to be convoluted. Jesus, stay with me, people.
[Kristin and Jenny laugh.]
Charisma:​ I beg you, I have a point somewhere. So there was that. And you know,
David made it okay to be sexually curious, to be sexually liberated, you know, and
not without judgment. And that was the first time I'd ever been open or had
somebody of authority, in my mind, I see things⁠— men generally as authority,
right? I even thought of God as authority. I had no idea where going down this
rabbit hole. But to me, you know, when I was going through Catholicism and
catechism classes, it was about rearranging that idea where God was my boss or
somebody to answer to⁠—
Kristin:​ Right.
Charisma:​ ⁠—where he became my peer and my friend, my buddy, my right hand
man, my person that was walking with me, not above me or in front of me. And I
was really struggling with those themes. And then to bring in David Greenwalt, who
I also admired, respected, was my boss saying, “It's okay. It's okay to want to be
sexual. It's okay to be sexy. It's okay to explore those things.” And I had never,
ever, ​ever​ been told that before. And that was kind of parallel⁠— but it was a
hammer to the head. I was like, “Whoa.” A lot to process in a moment.
The second thing was spatula in my hand, you know, this whole like, “I guess I
need to hit it on the head.” I was so fricking annoyed with that line. And I'm like,
“​Listen,​ this is my third year on the hell mouth. Do you think that I might know
what I'm fucking doing the demon by now? Like can I please have a more powerful
moment? Can I please have a solution? Can I please vanquish a vampire? Can like,
can I have learned anything thus far? Like really do I have to do this? Why does she
have to be so stupid?” And that was me protesting.
And David and Joss were there for that rant and Joss said nothing. And David goes,
“Um, Charisma. This is why America loves you. Because you're funny because that
is a ridiculous situation. Sometimes people panic and sometimes people say the
ridiculous things and that's what's fun. Like have fun. Lighten the fuck up.” He


didn't say “Lighten the fuck up,” but that was the message, “lighten up.” And I was
like, “Oh, Oh, America loves me?”
[All laughing.]
Kristin:​ “Can you rewind back to the beginning?”
Charisma:​ That's so Cordelia. “Wait, can you go back to ‘America loves me’? Wait,
I just missed that part. Can you, like⁠—
Jenny:​ “Just enunciate⁠—”
Charisma: ​“What do you mean⁠— How do you know America loves me? ​In what
way d
​ oes America love me? Can you be more specific? I need details.” Like,
“​Please.​ ​Love me.​ And tell me all the ways in which you do!”
[Kristin and Jenny laughing.]
Charisma: ​They, you know, they laughed, of course, and I lightened the fuck up. I
got with it. It was me, Charisma, trying to inform Cordelia and impose my angst
onto her rather than just being free. Being free and just doing it. So there I am with
the spatula and really for the first time embracing her ridiculousness and it worked.
Kristin:​ It definitely did.
Charisma:​ So those were the two moments for me where I realized she was
changing, but also when she catches a Xander cheating on her with Willow. Like
that was, I think for everyone, the moment where you see somebody that's
seemingly heartless and unfeeling be effected and then you can't help but feel sad
for that person because you're like, “Oh, hold on. I mean people have feelings too.
Who knew?”
Jenny: ​Right. And maybe they are mean because their feelings are so tender and
like whatever they're like life journey has been like they've built up these walls
specifically to protect themselves.
Kristin: ​Right. And I think that there's so much to the story that you just told with
the spatula and Cordelia ridiculousness and you as Charisma being like, “Hey, can
this girl like have a fucking clue about anything?” Like I just think there's a lot
there, right? Because also you're a woman⁠—
Charisma:​ Mh-hm.


Kristin: ​⁠—and you know, like playing a character that is, um, at least at the outset
portrayed as like a mean girl and like somebody who is wielding a spatula instead of
a steak. There's a lot there and I don't know, and you probably know way more
than we do, but it seems like perhaps that rant may have informed some of
Cordelia's growth because she does kill a vampire, right?
Charisma: ​Well, there’s a story behind that.
Kristin:​ Okay, great.
Charisma:​ So “Graduation.” So “Graduation” is the episode, and I think that was
the wrap, like that night that I stick that vampire was our season wrap. So [laughs]
I say to Joss again, I say, “Can she please? Just⁠— Can I just have one? Can I just
have one vampire?”
Jenny:​ Hell yeah.
Charisma:​ And he said to me, “You know, you're the only one that's been nice to
me tonight. So yeah.”
[Kristin and Jenny laughing.]
Jenny:​ Oh my god.
Charisma:​ Which I had no idea what he was talking about, or what he meant by
that, but I was, I got yes. So I was stoked. And that's the only reason why⁠— I
asked, I go, “Could she please, can she please just have a moment of strength?
And you know, and he said, “Yeah.” And that was that.
Kristin:​ And at that⁠— so “Graduation Day” is before⁠—
Charisma: ​Season three.
Kristin: ​Right. And so did you know when you were filming “Graduation Day” that
you were moving to ​Angel​?
Charisma: ​I don’t remember. I don't remember the date that and how it, how the
timing was. It was a really long time ago. I don't remember exactly. But to speak to
one more thing about when I realized that Cordelia was more to, was little sprinkles
of things.
I think the episode, I don't remember the name of it, forgive me, might've been
“Lovers Walk” when Cordelia gets the locket and gives it back. I think you get an


insight to what her personal life is at home, how there's a bit of neglect there and
there's a lot of money, but that doesn't⁠— Like money doesn't equate love. And
she's feeling, you know, she's a bit neglected and she's just operating in this really
narcissistic way because she ​had to be​. Because if she didn't care for herself,
nobody would care for her. And so I think that is kind of more piece of evidence
that we're going to feel more for her. We get an idea of why people are the way
that they are.
Kristin: ​Yeah. Yeah.
Jenny: ​Today’s episode is brought to you by Native. Many conventional deodorants
contain aluminum, which forms a plug in your sweat glands to prevent you from
sweating. Bleh!
But Native’s deodorant is made ​without​ aluminum, parabens, or talc, so you can
feel better about what you’re putting on your body. Native deodorant is made with
ingredients you’ve heard of like coconut oil and shea butter. It’s also vegan and
never tested on animals. And it really works. Native will keep you smelling and
feeling fresh all day long.
They’ve got incredible scents. Like they’ve got their classic coconut and vanilla.
They’ve got rotating seasonals. They’ve got my personal favorite, wild mint and
spruce. They’ve got such a variety and so many good scents, there’s really
something for everyone.
There’s no risk to try because Native offers free shipping on every order and 30day free returns and exchanges in the US.
I’ve tried a ton of different natural deodorants over the years because I really care
about what I’m putting on my body, and Native is the only one that’s worked for
me. It’s effective whether I'm just hanging out or going to the gym. And I just love
that wild mint and spruce scent.
For 20% off your first purchase, visit nativedeodorant.com and use promo code
BUFFY during checkout. That’s nativedeodorant.com and promocode BUFFY for 20%
off your first purchase.
Kristin: ​Today’s episode is brought to you by PrettyLitter. If you're like me and
you’re hiding out during the long winter months, it means there's a lot of downtown
inside you house. And if you're a cat owner, you might be apprehensive of being
within nose-shot of your litter box for hours on end, especially if its due for a
refresh. Thanks to PrettyLitter you can get odorless litter delivered right to your
door.


PrettyLitter is kitty litter reinvented. Unlike traditional litter, PrettyLitter’s super
light crystals trap odor and release moisture, resulting in dry, low-maintenance
litter that does not smell. PrettyLitter is virtually dust-free because it’s
manufactured with a specialized dedusting process. PrettyLitter also ships in a small
lightweight bag that lasts and entire month. No more bulky containers or frequent
trips to the store. But above all else, PrettyLitter monitors your cats health by
changing colors when it detects potential underlying issues.
My and my cats, Sam and Gus, are big fans of PrettyLitter. All of the elements of
PrettyLitter are pretty awesome, but especially we love the fact that it is on its own
schedule. It’s delivered to our door and so I never forget to get them new litter.
You should make the switch today. Go to PrettyLitter.com, use promo code BUFFY
and you’ll get 20% off your first order. That's PrettyLitter.com, promo code BUFFY.
67%
Kristin: ​Today's episode is brought to you by Aurate. Aurate is a jewelry brand that
is founded by women and is made ethically here in New York City. Pieces range
from classic to statement to completely original. If you're a jewelry lover, trust me,
this is the stuff you always want to find, but never can.
Aurate makes real gold accessible by selling directly to you without the middleman
markup. They offer the same quality as the fancy, expensive brands at a fraction of
the cost. All of Aurate’s pieces come with a lifetime warranty, because they know
that their jewelry lasts.
I have a couple of really beautiful pieces from Aurate. I have a gold cuff that goes
up the top of your ear that you can wear without a piercing. I love it so much. And I
also have a really beautiful necklace that’s a gold bar. It’s really simple and
beautiful. And both pieces, the cuff especially, is just something I think I’ll have for
the rest of my life. It's really, really high quality and I love the way that it looks.
For 15% off of your first Aurate purchase, go to Auratenewyork.com/buffy and use
promo code BUFFY. That's A-U-R-A-T-E-NewYork dot com slash Buffy, use code
BUFFY for 15% off your first purchase.
Kristin:​ I would like to talk about mean girls, just in general, right? Cordelia starts
as like the stereotypical mean girl.
Charisma: ​Sure.
Kristin: ​I wonder what your thoughts are on that character trope of the mean girl.
Like if you have other characters that you look to to inform that? [Charisma


laughs.] If you find Cordelia at the outset to just be a bitch or if there's anything
like that you think in that kind of character can empower women?
Charisma: ​So the simple answer is it was on the page. So there wasn't, there
wasn't a lot of⁠— Nobody had a sit-down with me and said, “Okay, this is her
background.” A lot of times you don't know. So you have to do the research
yourself and make choices based on the information that you do have. And
sometimes those choices can be recognized by writers and then they take your lead
or vice versa. You know, you're just taking it off the page and you're just taking it
as face value and building on that.
It was one of the darkest moments, I think Cordelia⁠— Her meanest, one of her
meanest moments I think was the episode where, I can't remember the name of it,
forgive me again, where the cheerleader⁠— Where she's trying out for cheerleading.
Jenny: ​Mh-hmm.
Charisma: ​And the witch, the girl who⁠— Was her character named Amy?
Jenny: ​Amy, yeah.
Charisma: ​And we're in the locker room and I'm like, “Nobody's getting in my
way.” Like stay basically stay the fuck out of my way. I think there is something
amazing about somebody that knows what they want and knows how to get it. I
think that's intense and probably will get you far in the wild, [Kristin and Jenny
chuckle] not a real friendship supportive role to take. You know, you're not going to
necessarily build a group of people to support you when you're that alienating. But
does that kind of person need support? I don't know. She was very powerful and I
think that moment of slamming the locker door in her face and just being like,
“Stay of my way,” is kind of admirable and frightening [laughing] at the same time.
Kristin:​ Right, right.
Jenny:​ Right.
Charisma: ​I got to tell you a little piece of Charisma. One of my biggest personal
pet peeves is indecision.
Jenny:​ Mmmm.
Charisma: ​I don't like people that are indecisive.
[All laughing]


Kristin: ​Right.
Charisma:​ I mean I have to practice a ton of patients and I don't really even know
after being Cordelia for so long, I don't know who informed who. If I became
Cordelia, or if Cordelia was always there and it just got brought out. But like
literally, I'm like, “Make a decision. I don't have, I don't want to spend, I don't want
to watch you go through this process. Can I decide for you?” Like it's so hard for
me. And I'll say it, I'll be like, “I can see that you're really struggling with this
decision. Is there anything I can do to support you in getting to the next level?” You
know what I mean? Like there's a way to say⁠— Like Cordelia would never⁠— Maybe
now as an executive at 40⁠—
[Kristin laughing]
Charisma: ​⁠—she's able to gently say, “You're really fucking annoying. Make a
choice.” And I, I'm very⁠— I don't think that⁠— I think for me what I've learned is to
balance that. To have that annoying, you know, be annoyed, feel prickly around a
subject, and be able to speak to another person in a respectful way, but, you know,
lovingly nudge them in a decision. Like, “Let's go, we can do this. I believe!” You
know?
[Kristin and Jenny laughing.]
Charisma: ​“You've got this girl!” You know, that's me now. Like I am, you know,
doing everything I can to cheerlead for people to get to the next level.
Kristin: ​Mh-hmm.
Charisma: ​And I hope that works. I hope I still have friends. I feel supported.
Kristin: ​Cheerleading is a great segue. You one of your top questions.
Jenny: ​Well I was wondering because I have read, heard⁠—
Charisma:​ Yes?
Jenny: ​⁠—that you were a Chargers cheerleader⁠—
Charisma: ​Yes!
Jenny: ​⁠—briefly before your time on ​Buffy​ and that made me wonder if you did any
of your own stunts? We talked to James a lot about him doing his own stunts.


Charisma: ​Sure.
Jenny: ​So I was thinking, “Oh wow. Like gymnastic⁠—” Like was there anything that
you recall doing or were you like, “No thank you.”
Charisma: ​Well being the damsel in distress all the time, there wasn't like a
tremendous amount of things to do.
Jenny: ​Mh-hmm, mh-hmm.
Charisma: ​Except you know there was at one time we were strung up by our
ankles all day.
Jenny:​ Oh my God, yeah!
Kristin: ​Yeah!
Charisma: ​Do you remember that? That was hardcore.
Jenny:​ Uh, yeah.
Charisma: ​So that wasn’t like stunty per se. But they would like string us up and
we, in the effort for time, we had to kind of stay strung up. But what they would do
is they would like pull a lever⁠— Like imagine your blinds.
Kristin:​ Right.
Charisma:​ You know, you pull a lever and the blinds come left or right. [Kristin
laughs.] So they would pull a lever and we would all swing and swing and swing
and swing until we made it up to a matted area that was elevated so that we could
kind of rest our, so our entire body weight wasn't⁠—
Kristin: ​Upside down.
Charisma: ​⁠—being held by our ankles.
Jenny:​ Oh my god.
Charisma:​ But there was… There was that, I remember. ​All day​ by our ankles.
Kristin:​ Oh my god.


Charisma:​ I mean it wasn't bad.
Jenny:​ [Skeptical] Well…
Charisma:​ I mean, it was not ​comfortable​, but I feel like it wasn't awful.
Jenny:​ As casual television viewers we take for granted that like, “Oh, we saw you
hang upside down for like a minute. So that's the sum total of that time you
spent⁠—”
Charisma:​ That shot took hours to shoot.
Jenny: ​Right, of course. God.
Charisma: ​And then like, I would take falls a lot. I would try to do most of my
stunts, but it wasn't like a point of pride or anything. I don't want to get hurt.
Jenny:​ No, no.
Charisma: ​And, you know, when you're younger you're like, [high pitched voice] “I
can do it!”
[All laughing.]
Kristin:​ Do you have a favorite episode of ​Buffy?
​ Like that, you know, for you as
your experience as an actor working on the series?
Charisma:​ [Speaking normally] Right. Yeah, I think I liked the episode, that
featured Cordelia the most… [sarcastically] Shocking.
[All laughing.]
Kristin: ​Makes sense.
Charisma: ​That was all about me, me, me! [Speaking normally] When I got to
wear that fabulous skirt-suit that was like red leather…
Jenny: ​Oh my god.
Charisma: ​Was that, was that “Lover’s Walk?”
Jenny:​ I think that was “The Wish,” right?


Kristin:​ Yeah!
Charisma:​ “The Wish!” Yes, you're right. So “The Wish” was a great episode. That
was a lot of fun for me.
Kristin:​ Is “The Wish” also the one where everybody's hanging upside down?
Jenny:​ ⁠—everybody’s hanging upside down episode.
Kristin:​ Big episode all around, yeah.
Charisma:​ Lots of hanging.
[Kristin laughs.]
Charisma:​ We’re either⁠— You know, “Reptile Boy” where we're strung up by our
arms. We were like in this position for quite awhile.
Jenny:​ Yeah, you're always⁠—
Kristin: ​Yeah, Cordelia’s tied up a lot.
Charisma:​ That's what kind of interesting too, because to give that dungeon-y
vibe, there'd be like water, right? And it would take while to build and then by the
time you go to shoot it, it stinks. You know, and it'd be like moldy or whatever. And
you're like, “Is this safe? [Kristin and Jenny laughing.] Should I be breathing this?
Are we good?” We were fine. But you know, it doesn't smell great.
Kristin:​ “Reptile⁠—
Charisma: ​It’s not glamorous y'all! [Kristin and Jenny laugh.] I’m telling you. This
is, you know, it’s not glamorous.
Kristin: ​So you are a parent now.
Charisma: ​I am.
Kristin: ​And I mean there's so many things that we can talk about in that domain.
But I just wonder if your like, you have one?
Charisma:​ One son, he's 16.
Kristin: ​One son. Has your son seen ​Buffy​ or ​Angel​?


Charisma:​ Okay, so [Kristin laughs] around 9 or 10 I introduced him to ​Buffy​ and
we probably got through a couple of episodes and then… I don't know what
happened. He lost interest.
Kristin:​ He was like, “No thanks, Mom.”
Charisma:​ Honestly, I don't think he's ever seen any of my work. I don't think he
cares to be honest with you.
Kristin: ​It has to be odd. I feel like we've talked to, you know, various actors from
the show⁠—
Charisma:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ ⁠—who are like, “Yeah⁠—” Like we talked to Christine Sutherland who was
like⁠—
Charisma:​ [Excited] Oh!
Kristin:​ “Yeah, like I, you know, my, my daughter doesn't want to watch…
Charisma:​ “Me.”
Kristin:​ “⁠— you know, this arc of my character.” Like, you know, she plays a mom
and then, you know, it's tragic and sad. Like, so like for her kids I think have stayed
away from it for their own reasons.
Charisma: ​Right.
Kristin: ​But it has to be weird to see your parents…
Charisma: ​I think I'm just a giant source of embarrassment for him. [Kristin
laughs.] It's almost like he doesn't want that kind of a, he's never been that kid.
Like he doesn't do on the spot. Well and he doesn't like that sort of attention at all.
I remember really the most recent experience I can say is walking on the
playground when I was on the lion game for w what was then a ABC Family, which
is now Freeform. But I was on a⁠— I went to go visit him at, uh, pick him up from
school actually. And there was just a lot of, you know, sometimes you could just
add the periphery, you can just kind of feel an energy or you can feel like a
something like there's just something a-crackling in the air. People are, you can tell
when people recognize you or they're talking about you.


And that was going on and there was like a bevy of girls over in the corner. And I
walked towards Donovan and then they go, [imitating teenage girls] “Hiii! Aren’t
you the mom on ABC Family?” [Kristin and Jenny laughing.] [Speaking normally]
And Donovan just wanted to die. And they were older, right? They were like an
eighth grade and he was probably in sixth or seventh grade then and he wanted to
melt into the playground. He just did not want any part of it. It was horrifying for
him. “Just go away. Please don’t come on the playground ​ever again.​ ” He keeps
you ​real​ grounded.
Kristin: ​Well 16, too. I mean, that's an older story.
Charisma:​ A whole other level of being grounded.
Kristin: ​Sixteen is a very particular place to be like embarrassed of⁠— I feel like I
was embarrassed of my parents⁠—
Jenny:​ ⁠—like breathing. Existing.
Kristin:​ ⁠—and nobody knew or cared who they were. [Laughing] So yeah, I can
only imagine.
Charisma: ​Yeah. But I'm reading this really great book called brain not brainwash,
Brainstorm​. It's really great at explaining how the teenage brain works. This pulling
away and rebellion and risk taking behavior is genetic. It's like in our DNA, it's
necessary.
Jenny: ​Right, right, right.
Charisma:​ And it's⁠— and so if you can like, as a parent, for me, I have to⁠—
because I'm so sensitive⁠— I have to⁠— And he's just like the thing that I've wanted
all my life. Like he is the child that I ever, like I wanted a boy. Because I wasn't
equipped to have a girl. I didn't feel like I didn't, was not confident that I could
handle a girl just because I knew myself and I knew my relationship with my mom
and I was worried⁠—
Jenny: ​Oh, yeah.
Charisma:​ ⁠—that I wouldn't have the tools to bring up a girl. And I thought it
would be safe to have a boy. And what I'm finding is that a teenage boy [Charisma
laughing] is a lot like prepubescent girl. [Kristin and Jenny laugh.] There's a lot
going on, but the difference is it's internal. And so he gets his feelings hurt really
easily.


And you know, we all think we're all good people and we don't hurt people's
feelings. But like, wake up call as a mom, you're like, you, he'll say, “You hurt⁠—
You⁠—” He doesn't say “You hurt my feelings,” but he has said to me, you know,
“You're not perfect. You're always talking about how I'm not doing things.” And I
have to say to him, “No, no, I don't think I'm perfect. I don't know shit. Like I don't
know shit. Okay? But I do know some things about life and there are some things
that I think you need to hear me on.”
And so I, but I don't think I'm perfect and I don't think I'm a perfect person, but I
think he thinks that I think I am. And so you're hurting each other.
Jenny: ​Mh-hmm.
Charisma: ​And sometimes you can recover and sometimes you can't. And so I'm in
the middle of that right now. Like it's hard. It’s so hard.
Kristin: ​I imagine too that like, you know, having the thought of like, “I don't know
if I could raise a girl cause of like these reasons, but like raising a boy will be
easier⁠—”
Charisma: ​It’s not.
Kristin: ​Right. I’m like, especially right now⁠—
Charisma:​ I mean, I don't know. I don't have a girl, but…
Kristin: ​I just wonder what it is, what it's like to raise a teenage boy, especially
with everything that's going on right now with Me Too. You know, like what that has
been like. If you're comfortable talking about that.
Charisma: ​Well, it's a huge responsibility because him being elected, this president
that's been elected embodies all the things of cheating, womanizing, inappropriate
talk. And yet he's elevated to the highest office by definite American definition, the
most successful person in our nation, right? And the leader of the free world, right?
A huge, huge responsibility to which he assumes none.
And so then as a son, I am spending my whole life until he's elected saying, the
good guy wins, educate yourself, make sure you know what you're talking about
before you give an opinion, respect women, you know, all of these things. And here
we have this person that is the leader of the free world in office.


It is a huge undertaking because what that says is, “Do what you want, say what
you want, take what you want, and you still win. It's all about winning, and that's
success.” And that's not success. That is not success. He represents to me all the
things⁠— I mean, I can get so fricking emotional about it. I'm so upset, so upset
that he's our president. It's just, it's just a fight. It's a constant fight.
It's⁠— to me, to speak personally, I'm a single mom. I'm hustling with work. I'm
trying to raise a responsible boy, man, young man, and he's going through things
and he's about to, you know, have his awakening⁠— sexual awakening and all. He is
in the middle of it, I guess.
Kristin: ​Yeah.
Charisma:​ And I want him to be a good man, you know, and then you have this,
this situation and in you're trying to work against it and it's just a challenge and it
stresses me out. So having all of those personal stuff, all this personal stuff going
on. I mean, I've been⁠— I go to therapy⁠— So I'll be in therapy and I would just be
like, “I've⁠— the last two years… I'm worried. I feel like, Oh my God, are we going to
get, are we going to have a nuclear war? Are we going to lose our security, our
national security because we've become some, you know, is our president, is some
puppet to Russia? And then they're going to overtake us because he's so stupid.”
You know, there's just so much going on.
Like I'm stressed all the time and watching the news has, I feel like a double
standard. It's like I need to, I'm obligated to⁠— I need to stay active. I need to up
my game as a civilian, as my civil rights. I need to be on top of it. It's my
responsibility. I have to fight at every turn. And then there's all those other stuff
about my sanity, my personal safety, my wellbeing. It wears you and you don't
want that to bleed into life, my child, my work, my whatever. So sometimes you
have to walk away, take a break, and go back stronger.
Kristin: ​That's something that we talk about a lot, you know, in general. Both of us
are, you know, activists in varying ways. And I think, I wonder, since we're here,
since we're talking about this, if you have things that you do for yourself, because
we see, especially now that we have this podcast, you know, and we follow you on
Twitter and it's amazing cause when we're talking about the podcast and something
happens, you know, when the election happened that Wednesday was a podcast for
us and I think it was what, two in the morning or something? We went into the
studio and we recorded a little bumper before that episode air just saying, you
know, choked up as you just were like saying these things. And we've seen not only
your account, but so many of the people from the show on Twitter, on Instagram,
on social media saying like, “Fuck this.” You know, “This isn't okay, be active here,
donate here, et cetera.”


[Crosstalk.]
Charisma:​ We have to up our engagement.
Kristin: ​So I wonder, since we're seeing that and so many of our listeners are
seeing that, if you found a balance or like⁠— What are the things that you do⁠—
Jenny: ​To take care of yourself?
Kristin:​ Yeah, to take care of yourself.
Jenny: ​And like guard against sort of like engagement, fatigue, I guess would be a
way to put it.
Charisma: ​That's very articulate.
Jenny: ​Well, thank you.
Charisma:​ I just take breaks. I read this article the other day about how this office
and this polarizing person has created massive disparity, no deeper personal or
personal where It's cause these huge fractures in families where you can't follow
them anymore because of their political views and everybody is trying to out
scream the other person. “Well no, I'm right.” “No, you're right.” And it's just
getting us nowhere.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Charisma:​ Not in our personal lives with our family. You know, I⁠— My dad came to
visit and we didn't talk politics the entire time, which is actually kind of shocking.
And as I'm driving my parents to the airport, my dad says to me, on the 405
freeway going South to La Tierra exit, “So what do you think of the wall?” You
know, it went from⁠— it went downhill from there.
Kristin: ​Right. [Laughing] As you would imagine it would.
Charisma: ​And I tried very hard to take any kind of contempt, any kind of push,
agenda of my own onto him. I tried really hard to hear what he had to say and
what his concerns were. And like⁠— He doesn't have a problem with people coming
legally. He has a problem with people illegally.


And I said, “Well, you know, do you know how difficult it is to to come legally is
what I'm trying to say?” You know, “Are you aware of the steps? You know, I'd love
to send you a link on what the process is to get approved to come here.”
Jenny: ​Mh-hmm, mh-hmm.
Charisma: ​And then also, “You know, Dad, it's really hard for me to sit in my
position on this side of the wall and you know, cast these judgments because I
know you, Dad, and I certainly know me, and if there was a better life on the other
side of the wall, you sure as shit know I'm going to get there. I will scale whatever
wall I will cross whatever land and I will swim whatever ocean for a better life for
myself and my child.”
Kristin: ​Mh-hmm.
Charisma:​ “And I can't judge anybody else for wanting that same thing. It's very
hard for me.”
Jenny: ​Oh, yeah.
Charisma:​ [Laughing] Deep breath!
Jenny: ​No, I mean it's a lot. It also like⁠— While you were talking about your
conversation with your dad, it kind of made me think about what you were saying
about communicating with your… with your son. Like there's this whole other like
aspect to where we are right now, socially in this country with these, these familial
schisms, right? Where like everyone's trying to out-scream each other and like also
we are all kind of like enduring these emotional wounds. Like there's this emotional
level, like your relationship with your parents.
It's not just about like, “I feel like my political beliefs are correct and yours are
incorrect.” It's also like “We love each other. How can you not take into
consideration what I'm saying and like what it means to me?” You know what I
mean? Like there’s this whole⁠—
Charisma: ​The humanity of it.
Jenny:​ Exactly. That⁠—
Charisma:​ It gets lost.
Jenny:​ ⁠—hurts my feelings.


Kristin:​ So obviously for us, politics, and our personal identities, and our
relationships to our family come up a lot in the work that we do with ​Buffering​ and
it's tied so much to⁠— The messaging is tied. There's a link. Do you find that now,
post election, there's a different tenor to your relationship with the ​Buffy​verse, the
Angel​verse? Like is it, has it taken on any new meaning for you in this new context?
Charisma: ​Politically speaking, no. Because I tend to think we have the most
intelligent community. [All laughing.]
Kristin:​ [inaudible, agreeing]
Charisma: ​I think we're⁠— I totally believe that. I feel like the level of intelligence
ups my game, you know, the metaphors that are found the themes that you've,
you know, you've⁠— The threads of connection and you know, just the things that
you've talked about in terms of patriarchy⁠—
Kristin:​ Nailed it.
Charisma: ​⁠—tropes. You know, how you've found connections of homophobia in
relationships. Like those are themes, when you're making a TV show, you don't
even have time to think about.
Jenny: ​Sure.
Charisma: ​You're not thinking about that.
Kristin:​ You’ve got an 18-hour day.
Charisma:​ The analysis afterward has been brilliant for me to witness and talk with
fans about, and you. So I respect and love our community and they tend to think
more broadly, more openly, and more all inclusive. Like we are one. We are all one
person and not everybody thinks that.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Charisma:​ I think it's an us, them mentality with people that are just meant, and
strive for financial success. [Quietly] I'm on a rant.
Kristin: ​We love it.
Charisma:​ [Normal volume] I'm all worked up!
Jenny: ​Yes!


[All laughing.]
Kristin: ​We love a rant! I actually⁠— This might be a good time to talk about some
of the things that you're doing now because I know you just started a podcast.
Charisma:​ I did! I did!
Jenny: ​Yeah!
Kristin: ​So do you want to tell our listeners about that if they don’t⁠— I’m sure a lot
of them know about it already.
Charisma: ​Oh, do they? That's so, so, so, so kind of you to say. It's called ​The
Opposite Sex Show​. It's my very good friend, Christian Majewski, who I met on a
dating app. [Jenny laughs.] And you know, it's very modern, very modern. [Kristin
laughs.] We're both single people podcasting together. We were not a romantic fit,
but we are a friend fit and turns out a bit, a good, you know, business fit. And you
know, where his technical assets come into play, my chatty…
[All laugh.]
Kristin: ​Sounds like our dynamic.
Charisma:​ Is it? Who’s who? Who’s the tech?
Kristin:​ I’m chatty.
Charisma:​ You’re chatty and your tech.
Kristin and Jenny:​ Yes.
Charisma:​ Amazing. But you're also a songstress very artsy too. It's great because
I mean, I would love to have you guys on my podcast just because I want to talk to
you about podcasting and the world of it and how the growth and how you came up
to do it and then what makes your podcast great. And I⁠— the whole thing, you
know, obviously you've⁠— you're dialed in and you get it and you know what to do
and you know how to develop an audience and still not compromise what's
important to you. Which is just awesome and I'm very proud of you.
[All laugh.]


Charisma:​ But anyway, our show is ​The Opposite Sex Show​ with Christian
Majewski and myself. And it’s a topical show.
Kristin: ​And you just started it, right?
Charisma:​ Huh?
Kristin:​ You just started it? It’s fairly new.
Charisma: ​We did. We have five episodes up right now. We are about to drop an
episode about porn.
Kristin:​ Ooh!
Jenny: ​Fascinating.
Charisma:​ And then⁠— it is, isn't it? And I just really am getting to know how
conservative [laughing] I am, and how opinionated I am, and how I look forward to
broadening those horizons, you know? And, having more empathy and compassion
for⁠— and leaving more room for people to be people, you know, and getting
educated on stuff. Sexy stuff.
Kristin: ​Yeah. I mean, we talked a little bit at the start about like the confidence
that you have when you're young because⁠—
Charisma: ​Yes.
Kristin:​ You know, for whatever reason we said maybe it's because you haven't
fallen so hard. And when we were talking about that, I was just thinking about my
perspective now, you know, I'm 38 and my⁠—
Charisma:​ Shut up, you are not. You guys, she looks not a day over 28. [Kristin
and Jenny laughing.] How old are you?
Jenny:​ I'm 37.
Charisma:​ Oh my God. You guys look like babies. This is crazy!
Kristin: ​You must know that you also look the exact same that you looked on the
show that we're watching that’s 22 years old.
Charisma:​ I do not, but you're very kind to say that. I hope I’ve matured.


Jenny:​ It’s true.
Kristin:​ We’re probably gonna have a selfie to prove it. You know what I mean?
Charisma:​ You’re so sweet. No, beautiful, beautiful girls. ​Women.​ [Kristin and
Jenny laughing.] “Girls” sounds so demeaning.
Kristin:​ Well not when we're all⁠—
Charisma: ​Well it sounds patronizing. I don’t mean to sound that way. But ​women​,
you're beautiful women.
Kristin:​ Thank you. That's our soundbite, we’re just gonna start the whole
interview with just that.
Charisma:​ [Singing] Beautiful women!
Kristin: ​I just wonder if there's something that, you know that, sure maybe back at
the beginning when you were auditioning for ​Buffy​ and you know, you didn't know
what it was like to fall on your face, that you had a certain confidence, but I wonder
what it's like now⁠— later?
Charisma:​ Oh, interesting.
Kristin: ​Like sort of like what are the advantages? And I ask this sort of
self-serving cause I'm exploring it for myself as well.
Charisma:​ What are you exploring?
Kristin:​ Like just what age does in the positive? Like I think about some of the
confidence that I have now at 38.
Charisma:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ Especially, like as a single person, I'm like⁠— I'm single in 38 and if I had
this confidence when I was 22, what would my life have looked like? Because I
didn't have that confidence. And I think it comes from my experience and in the
world. And so I wonder⁠—
Charisma:​ Youth is wasted on the young.
[All laugh.]


Jenny: ​Truly.
Kristin:​ That phrase has been in my mind for at least a year. But I wonder, you
know, whether it's from a career place or a personal place or what have you, um,
how it feels for you to not be, you know, to have it not be 1995 with your beeper,
but rather for it to be 2019 with your iPhone.
[Kristin laughs.]
Charisma:​ What I wanted to say to what you're saying is, you know, what's
interesting about what you said is like you have to fall on your face. I actually had
fallen on my face long before I was on the pursued acting professionally, and
overcame a lot of personal struggles in my home life with my family, and I had also
had nearly been raped and my two friends were shot protecting me.
So I had to encountered a great deal of hardships. And I think what, what I think
that is about confidence when you're younger is you're just resilient. And at least I
think we are. I don't know if that made me more confident. I think I'm obviously
traumatized by the experience and it has layered and put a filter on how I see
things in the world and are affected by things for sure.
But I think that it did build a certain level of confidence in that like a cancer
survivor would feel like, don't sweat the small stuff. I've just survived cancer. You
know? In a certain extent you're like, I've overcome a lot. Don't sweat the small
stuff. Like this whole like audition thing in the scheme of life means what?
Kristin:​ Right.
Charisma: ​But when we get older and you have a mortgage and a child and college
ahead and you start thinking about, “How can I provide? How can I provide for my
family?” And this⁠— You build it up to mean so much like, “This job will affect my life
like this,” because you know how it will affect your life economically. And I think
then, you know, stakes and the stakes just get higher when you're younger. I didn't
have a child, I didn't have a mortgage. I didn't, you know, there's just less to worry
about. And all I was worrying about was, and that's totally okay. And that's normal.
And that's how it's supposed to be.
Kristin: ​Right.
Charisma: ​In terms of being able, and allow the room to be your age is what I
mean. Not that it's not okay to have a mortgage at 20⁠— I did have a mortgage at
20⁠— but I'm just saying it's okay. Wherever you are is okay. And I think that we
need to leave room for our kids in that regard. And if I could be kinder to my 20


year old self or my 30 year old self in the sense that I was critical and I did get
affected by expectations, physical expectations that were put on me by my job, you
have to look a certain way. And I was pigeonholed to look a certain way, which then
meant that I couldn't have a voice. Right?
So I was just a pretty thing to look at, which is very⁠— And that isn't an old, that is
an old theme where growing up in my house, you know, it's not my mom's fault.
She was raised at a time when this was very important that you be pretty and well
spoken enough to get a man to be a nice arm candy piece. Right?
So that was her big aspiration for me. That was the only reason why. And I think to
this day why I didn't take the SATs. And I was in a way very progressive, but then
not. So it's always just been like my whole life sort of trying to marry those two,
where when I did get married, I was the breadwinner. When I had my child, I was
the breadwinner and I was having to make financial decisions on my own. I had
support in my partner that was not traditional. It was an emotional support. It,
which is, let me tell you as an actress you need
[All laugh.]
Charisma:​ I am not demeaning his part in our marriage at all. It was necessary
and he was a great pillar of support at a very fragile time. You know, it was, I was
becoming more popular on a popular show, becoming more popular and getting
recognized places. And there's a lot of responsibility in that. And without his being
there, you know, and having that love and support I would have certainly… who
knows?
Jenny: ​Yeah.
Charisma:​ I mean I feel like, I feel like what's really wonderful about this
conversation is I love when we are just able to have a conversation, you know?
Jenny: ​Less like a Q&A.
Kristin:​ Sure. It's been like 22 years since ​Buffy​ has been on air. I'm sure you've
done many interviews where you've answered, you know, this question or that
question. And I think what's really fun is like where are we now? Who are we now?
Like it's⁠— I think it's really beautiful and wonderful. I have just a couple of like tiny
little things that are less conversational⁠—
Charisma:​ Let’s go! Shoot!


Kristin:​ ⁠—but since we have you here. There's two things. One, there's a reboot,
even though that's not the right word, but that we've learned that ​Buffy​ is coming
back.
Charisma:​ I heard! But then I haven't heard anything.
Kristin:​ I know, I mean I don't, we don't know when, but we know it's happening.
Charisma:​ It is happening? For sure, for sure?
Kristin:​ I mean who knows here, but I think so. I haven't heard otherwise.
Charisma:​ Right. That they're doing a ​Buffy​ with the new Slayer and new people,
but Joss is overseeing. I've heard that too. I don't know anything more than that.
Kristin:​ Right. I mean we have⁠—
[Crosstalk.]
Charisma:​ I have not been invited to be part of it.
Kristin:​ Right. That’s really the question is do you like, as the show comes back,
would you have any hopes, wants, dreams? Not necessarily like for you, but for the
show if and when it comes back?
Charisma: ​Well, I think David Boreanaz was very generous in saying like, “How
wonderful,” you know? “We need another Slayer right now. We need another
person to look up to.” I am not sure how I feel about it because I don't know a lot
about it.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Charisma: ​I don't think there was anything wrong with the original. [Kristin and
Jenny laughing.] I think it was kind of perfect actually. Why revisit it? I think it's
kind of⁠— I would like to, rather than see all of these reboots and why can't we go
back to people being less financially insecure that are in positions of power to make
these decisions to greenlight stuff. Why can't we greenlight more original content?
Jenny:​ Mh-hmm.
Charisma:​ I would be more interested in that.
Kristin:​ Yeah.


Charisma:​ But if they invited me to come, of course I would go.
[Kristin and Jenny laugh.]
Charisma: ​I mean I say that, but I don't know.
Kristin:​ I think James said that he would⁠— was hoping to be the Watcher. The next
Watcher, somehow.
Jenny: ​Oh, yeah.
Charisma:​ Oh, right. That's interesting.
Kristin: ​But you also have⁠— We're on the cusp of the 20th anniversary of ​Angel.​
Charisma:​ We are. Do you have any big plans?
Kristin: ​Well we're thinking⁠— So it's October we have to do something.
Jenny: ​Mh-hmm.
Kristin:​ But I don't know what it will be.
Charisma:​ I think there is a great deal of us going to New York Comic Con, which
I've never attended.
Jenny:​ Ah!
Charisma: ​But I think there's a great deal of people doing that.
Kristin:​ Well, I live there, so perhaps I’ll⁠—
Charisma:​ You live in New York? Both of you do?
Jenny:​ I live here.
Charisma:​ You live here and you live in New York? How do you guys make this
work?
Kristin:​ We lived here at the start. Both of us lived here.
Charisma: ​Oh!


Kristin: ​So it's newer for us to be remote, but we just talk on the phone and record
on good mics and it sounds like we're in the same room. So we've been doing all
right.
Jenny: ​Yeah.
Kristin:​ But yeah, maybe I'll brave the Javits center. It's so, it's so crowded. It's
easier I think⁠—
Charisma: ​Is there something I don't know? Were you guys together at one point?
[Kristin and Jenny laughing.]
Kristin:​ Wow. And now the interviewee⁠—
Jenny:​ Detective Cordelia! Amazing!
Kristin:​ We were together for 10 years⁠—
Charisma:​ Oh shit!
Kristin: ​⁠—and married for five.
Charisma:​ Shit!
Kristin:​ And we got⁠—
Charisma: ​Just recently divorced?
Kristin: ⁠​—divorced a year ago in the middle of the podcast.
Charisma:​ Ouch. Do your viewers know this?
Kristin: ​Yeah.
Jenny:​ Yes.
Kristin: ​Yes they do. We kind of had to, the way that things work these days with
social media, right? Like the beginning of the podcast for us was in our house. They
knew our house, they knew our cat.
Charisma:​ Shit.


Kristin:​ So there was really no way forward except to be like, “We have an
announcement to make and this is the announcement.” So it's been, it's⁠— Season
four has been a crazy season for us, but we did it.
Charisma: ​Wow, that's interesting. It's like my ex husband and I are raising our
child together, co-parenting separately. You're kind of doing that. This is your baby
and you guys are co-parenting and doing this together. That's amazing.
Kristin: ​That’s how we talk about it. It's sort of like if you have enough love for a
thing, then, you know the difficulty⁠—
Charisma: ​And for each other.
Jenny:​ Yeah, yeah.
Charisma:​ Let's not, you know, you have to obviously have a mutual respect and⁠—
Kristin: ​Of course.
Charisma:​ ⁠—to be able to be in the same room together. [All laugh.] You do
sometimes, you know, when you're not in agreement with one another about
things, you put your stuff aside for the betterment of the child.
Kristin: ​Yes.
Jenny: ​Sure, yes.
Charisma:​ Podcast. Whatever.
Kristin: ​So real.
Charisma:​ Good for you two.
[Kristin and Jenny laughing.]
Charisma:​ You’re like, [Charisma laughs like she could cry at any moment.]
[All laughing more.]
Kristin: ​And we all just start crying, both of us.
Charisma:​ Isn't that funny and cute?


Kristin: ​It’s been a ride.
Charisma: ​Well I'm impressed.
Kristin:​ I really liked that you picked that up. You were like, “There's something I
don’t know…”
[Jenny laughing.]
Charisma: ​“What's going on?” Cause I thought you guys were together and then I
didn't know. And then you're moving. How do you make this work?
Kristin:​ Right.
Charisma:​ And we have so much to talk about after the podcast.
Kristin:​ We do! Well for now at least⁠— Probably the last thing we should say is, is
there anything that we didn't ask you that you want to talk about or is there
anything⁠—
Charisma: ​Oh, jeez.
Kristin: ⁠​—that you want to stay, you know…
Jenny:​ No pressure!
Kristin: ​Yeah, no pressure at all.
Jenny: ​Just in case we miss anything important.
Charisma: ​I don't know when this is coming out. It might be too late, but April
15th Netflix is launching ​No Good Nick.​ I'm going to be on an episode of that. Not
on April 15th, but there's a new show on Netflix that is starring Sean Aston⁠—
Jenny:​ Oh, wow!
Charisma:​ ⁠—and Melissa Joan Hart, and guest starred Amy and some of my
favorite other people that get started as well, like Johnny Silverman and Eddy
McClintock. And then I just did an episode with the wonderful and fantastic
showrunner, Tim Minear and John Gray who were ​Angel​ alumni⁠—
Jenny: ​Mh-hmm, mh-hmm.


Charisma:​ Alumnus? [Kristin laughs.] So we got to work together again and that
made me so happy to be able to say his words. I mean it's⁠— The bad part about
doing such a great, great show so early in your career is you never get those… You,
you get spoiled! You don't get writing like that all the time and you⁠— it's a ​rude
awakening. It's rude! It’s very confrontational.
[Kristin and Jenny laughing.]
Charisma:​ It's like, “This is shit. I want my old writers back!” So when Tim calls
and says, “I want to have you on,” you're like, “Swoon! Now I get to say your
words.” It makes me so happy. So ​911​ I think that airs May 13-ish.
Kristin: ​Oh, ​911?
​
Charisma: ​Yeah, for Fox, which I think is like the biggest show of the hour or on
that network. I don't know. What I wanted to ask you, is there any question from a
listener that you want to ask me before I go?
[Crosstalk.]
Kristin:​ We didn't do⁠—
Charisma: ​Oh that’s right!
Jenny: ​You’re a secret right now.
Charisma:​ You told me that at the beginning.
Kristin:​ But I have a feeling that definitely our listeners would have asked if there's
anything you would have wanted to see from Cornelia's arc that you didn't? Or if
there's like a favorite piece of Cordelia's arc, you know, something⁠—
Charisma: ​Two things: She would have lasted longer.
Jenny: ​Hell, yeah.
Charisma:​ That would have been nice. And two, that the spinoff ​Cordy,​ the sitcom
that they did on ​Angel,​ is probably one of my favorite episodes. I will come back
and visit you guys for additional questions if they come up and then we can prep
your… followers?
Kristin: ​Listeners.


Charisma: ​⁠—listeners⁠—
Jenny: ​Yes!
Charisma:​ ⁠—on my arrival and then we can just do 20 questions.
Kristin:​ That would be so special and so fun.
Charisma: ​A gunslinger style. Like “Off the top of your head! Really quick! Go!”
Kristin: ​“Go, go, go, go!”
Charisma: ​We can do something really fun like that.
Kristin: ​Did you hear that? So we surprised you all, but also you will get a chance
to ask Charisma questions.
[Jenny laughs.]
Jenny: ​A win-win-win.
Charisma: ​You can’t leave them hanging like that. You guys, thank you so much
for having me.
Jenny:​ Thank you.
Charisma: ​I have to go to a teacher's conference…
[All laughing.]
[Crosstalk.]
Jenny: ​Thank you so much.
Kristin: ​Thank you so much for being here and for everything that you've done and
continue to do.
Charisma: ​Oh, I appreciate you. Thanks you guys.
Kristin: ​Yes, thank you.
[CHIME]


Jenny:​ Well, we did it.
Kristin:​ We did it.
Jenny: ​No one can say we didn't.
Kristin: ​We really did it.
Jenny: ​We talked to Charisma, we had a hell of a conversation. Thank you so much
to her for spending the time with us and having the conversation.
Kristin: ​Yes, for being so gracious with her time. We are so thankful. We know all
of you are so thankful. We also, speaking of being thankful, we want to remind
everybody that we have that tee shirt up for sale, that 100% of the profits are
going to benefit [inaudible]. Really important work being done by race right now in
a very crazy time. Bufferingthevampireslayer.com, click on “shop” and we'll be
raising money through July 31st over there. And, you know, we’re coming back in
September and we're very excited about it. It's not that far away.
Jenny: ​Yes. Yes. Yes.
Kristin: ​And we hope that you have like, you know, a good summer and if you
want to follow us for these new projects that we have, you should do that. Jenny,
where can they find you?
Jenny:​ They can find me at @JennyOwenYoungs all over the gosh darn internet.
[Kristin laughs.] What about you?
Kristin:​ You can me on the gosh darn internet by going to @KristinNoeline kind of
anywhere. K-R-I-S-T-I-N N-O-E-L-I-N-E. That's my website. It's my Instagram. It's
my Twitter. Follow us in all of those places. And of course, follow ​Buffering​, at
@bufferingcast on Instagram, on Twitter, and on Facebook. You can find out all
about the things coming your way. We have a pretty fun fucking poster coming
your way from Kate Leth, God damn it!
Jenny: ​Woo!
Kristin: ​But anyway, thank you.
Jenny: ​That’s a spicy little meatball, I’ll tell you what. Yes. Thank you, Charisma.
Thanks to all of you, especially to the folks who sent in a happy birthday voice
memos. You rock.


Kristin: ​Yes. And, where else to end this beautiful, beautiful time with Charisma
Carpenter, but with the beloved Cordelia jingle.
[CORDELIA jingle plays]
Cordelia! (Ah!)
I love you, Cordelia! (Ah!)
You’re perfect, Cordelia! (Ah!)
Jenny:​ And till September…
Jenny and Kristin:​ [Howling] Awoo!
Kristin: ​[Whispering] Cordelia.
[Jenny and Kristin laugh.]

