Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 5.21: The Weight of the World
[CHIME]
Jenny:​ Hey everybody! Wow, hello! Before we get started, as tradition dictates,
Kristin and I need to tell you some stuff, yes?
Kristin:​ God, we just can't stop telling people stuff. It's all we do, we just tell
people stuff—
Jenny:​ [laughs] So much to say.
Kristin:​ And then we tell people more stuff. [laughs]
Jenny:​ Yeah, the first thing that we need to tell you is all about last episode's
Sexual Tension Awards! Some very strong opinions—one very strong opinion and
three, uh, things lost to obscurity.
Kristin:​ It's almost like, one opinion lit the other opinion's cigarette in this round of
Sexual Tension Awards.
Jenny:​ It's… almost just like that! [laughter] Because wow, way back in a whole
other place, in fourth place, it's Ben and Buffy with 3%. [Kristin laughs] Charlie
Weber in third place, with 4—Charlie Weber and Face Acting in third place, with 4%
of the vote. Gronx and Ben in second place with 5% of the vote. [Kristin laughs]
This has to be the greatest slab of vote a first place winner has ever taken in the
history of the Sexual Tension Awards. It's Xander and Spike with 88 freaking
percent of the freaking vote.
Kristin:​ Yeah. They deserved 100%. I don't know if that's the biggest chunk,
actually. Emily McLongstreet, are you out there? I know that you have your math
chart somewhere. Let us know.
Jenny:​ Yes, tell us your truth.
Kristin:​ What is the largest win a win has ever winned in the Sexual Tension Award
corner?
Jenny:​ Hmmm.
Kristin:​ Um. Congratulations, Xander and Spike, we will mail you your trophy,
which is going to be shaped like a pair of Xander hands lighting a Spike Morley


cigarette. You're welcome. We have a couple of events coming up, which I wanna
tell you about. One is this Saturday, August 15th, 11 AM Pacific, 2 PM Eastern, our
favorite time to do things. We are doing a Buffering Zoom hangout with our $10
patrons. So come and join us. Jenny will sing some songs, I will watch Jenny sing
some songs and probably dance.
Jenny:​ Hmm.
Kristin:​ There might be a dog named Frank, there might be a cat named Gus,
there probably won't be a cat named Sam because she hates the camera, but we
can try. You should join us, it's a lot of fun. Also, a couple Saturdays later will be
the next Buffering book club. We are reading N.K. Jemisin's The City We Became
and I'm losing my ​fucking​ mind, because it's the first time I've ever read N.K.
Jemisin and I'm just—I'm enamored. I'm in love. That is August 29th, 11 AM
Pacific, 2 PM Eastern. That is for our $5 patrons and higher.
Jenny:​ We had… such a fantastic time last week with a new member of the
Buffering team, Mackenzie MacDade, who facilitated our first set of antiracism
reading and discussion groups. You can learn more on all of the work being done to
create and maintain an antiracist space here at Buffering the Vampire Slayer at
bufferingthevampireslayer.com/justkeepfighting. Which is now also linked up on the
top bar of the main page for you to find more readily.
A few weeks ago, we posted a special episode discussing those ongoing
commitments. And Mack has asked to take over our Instagram this afternoon,
Wednesday, August 12th, to do an Instagram live tackling some of the questions
and feedback we've gotten. We are so excited to have Mack working with us, and
you can tune in live tonight at 7 PM Eastern, 4 PM Pacific. Or watch it after it posts,
as it will remain on the main feed. Thank you, as always, Mack.
Kristin:​ Yes! Thank you, Mack. And hey, you know, there's another person who
we've been talking a whole bunch about in-episode, and she's here with us today.
Alba, Alba Daza, are you there? Are you there in Canada?
Alba:​ Hello, yes!
Jenny:​ Hello!
Alba:​ Hanging out here in Montreal. How's it going?
Kristin:​ [sighs] People—all of our Canadian listeners are so excited [Alba laughs] to
have a Canadian here, inside the pod. We thought, you know, collectively, we've all


been working together, the three of us now, for the last bunch of episodes. What
was your first episode with us, Intervention? Is that right?
Alba:​ Yep, I think it was Intervention.
Kristin:​ And we've been talking for a minute now about having you appear in the
intro to, like, properly introduce everyone to your wonderful voice. And to talk a
little bit about how the hell we wound up here working together. I feel like the way
you came into the pod is a good story. A story worth telling. So do you wanna talk
a little bit about how we went from, like, being Kristin and Jenny and Alba listening
to the podcast to Kristin and Jenny and Alba making the podcast together? [laughs]
Alba:​ [laughs] Yes. [all laugh]
Jenny:​ Yeah!
Alba:​ Ahh! Okay, yeah, so. I was a long-time listener of hte pod, since 2017, I
think. And you know, I was just a really big fan. I was really excited to go to Prom
this year in April before it was cancelled. [laughter]
Kristin:​ Sorry. [laughter]
Alba:​ I used to, you know, go on the hangouts and I became a patron and I was
listening to all the interviews. And after George Floyd was murdered, you know, the
world took a really big shift. And a lot of things started to come up, and you guys
put out a statement and there was like, a response to that statement. And I ended
up joining the Scoobies of Color group on Facebook, which is specifically for
Scoobies of color, for anyone who doesn't know, and is a—if you're a Scooby of
color and you wanna join that Facebook group, it's a really great community.
There's a lot of support there. And I was inspired to send you guys an email with
ideas on how I personally thought that you could make the podcast more
BIPOC-friendly.
And I was really concerned, because I saw a lot of people, like, on Youtube and
creators just kind of doing blanket… solutions? You know, I'm doing air quotes.
[Kristin laughs] And I was really concerned that that's—that was what was gonna
happen with the podcast and I really didn't want that. So out of my own, you know,
love for Buffy and love for the podcast, I decided to just, like, take a couple days,
come up with some ideas and construct an email that I sent to some Scoobies of
color to proofread and sent it to you guys. You know, with no expectations. And
then, you guys emailed me back!


Kristin:​ We were so excited to get your email. Both—I mean, for—and I think that
we've talked a little bit about this on the podcast. But I think that just the act of the
outreach itself, you know, felt like a measure of trust, a measure of hope, at the
very least, you know? Maybe not trust. And the other piece of the excitement of
receiving it was that—I think it was like, six points or something like that. And
every single point—I remember—Jenny, do you remember me texting you? I was
like, Jenny, this email—it's like—we can do every single one of these things. Like,
these are all things that we're able to change, able to shift. Moving our Patreon
content and making that available for free for black and indigenous listeners. We're
creating—can we say the jingle that we're creating? We're creating a White
Supremacy jingle—
Jenny:​ Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin:​ To put in the pod in Season 6. And you know, it was just full of really
brilliant ideas. And so we reached out to you and had a convers—an initial
conversation, sort of saying that, like, thank you so fucking much for writing this.
We can do all of this, and these are some of the ways that we might do that, but do
you want to come on board—like, can we hire you to implement some of this? Like,
to talk about implementing some of this.
Jenny:​ Yeah. The email—the initial email that we got from you, Alba, was so
amazing, for like, all of the reasons that Kristin said. Like, it was just like, every
idea—like, every point in the email was like, even more exciting than the one
previous. And like, offered us all these ways in which we could sort of, like, just
make the space more accessible or more accountable, you know. And bring in more
elements that will—that are already and will continue to make the show better and
better, and the community space better and better.
In particular, I was like, really excited to have the prompt of figuring out how to go
about creating a White Supremacy jingle and like, thinking about musicians of color
that I'm connected to that I could potentially collaborate with or bring on board to
work on that. And then, you know, like Kristin said, we asked you if you would be
interested in, right, consulting to sort of like implement some of these ideas.
Because even though we were like, looking at the ideas and thinking like, wow,
these are all awesome and we can do them. That doesn't necessarily mean that
we're going to have the best intuition about, like, what's the most responsible way
we can approach all of these things?
Kristin:​ We did a little work—the four of us, me, Jenny, you and Mack. And then
we learned more about what you do in your day-to-day.
Alba:​ Yeah.


Kristin:​ And we started talking about creative things. So do you wanna talk about
that a little bit?
Alba:​ Sure. I mean, I think it was really cool, like, that second conversation that
we had on the phone, just the three of us. And you were like, "do you wanna, like,
be in—work on the Facebook group?" And I was like… no. [all laugh]
Kristin:​ Not at all, no thank you.
Alba:​ Well, I was like, I really don't think I'm capable of doing that. But like, I
really wanna work on creative aspects. And my background is in film production
and I have like a little podcast that I did a year ago that I'm like, restarting now
called My Mama So. Yeah, so I have a background in creative production. And I was
just like, so excited for the opportunity to even say, like, I wanna do this on
Buffering. Because literally, the first episode that I ever heard, like, way back in
2017, I was like, I wanna be on this podcast! [laughter] Like, I wanna work on this
podcast! And like, now it's just so wild to be like, 2020, and I'm like, whoa man. I
was like, a little baby, like, "I wanna be on this podcast," and now like, here I am.
Like, hi everyone! I'm on the podcast.
Kristin:​ It's so fucking great! It's so great. Like, we're so excited to have you here
for a million reasons. I mean, I think—you know, obviously, anyone who works on
the podcast really has to be a fan of Buffy. But I think it's so powerful that you
came to it as a listener as well. Especially because of the work that we're doing now
with respect to the community here. Like, the—the skillset that you have is, sure,
creative production and you're fucking great at it, by the way. We've only done a
few episodes together, but—
Alba:​ Thank you.
Kristin:​ Yeah, you're fucking knocking it out of the park. But also I think just
having your voice as a part of the creative process, as somebody who really
understands the community here—
Alba:​ Mmhmm.
Kristin:​ Is so powerful and important. And also, it's just wonderful to have
somebody to work with—
Alba:​ [laughing] Yeah.


Kristin: ​Outside of me and Jenny, you know? [all laugh] Alba, we've talked about
you coming on as a consultant, then coming on as a producer. But we haven't, like,
been specific in explaining what—you know, you're producing in a lot of ways. Sure,
you would like us to play the Spike jingle when Spike lights a cigarette. We get
that. [Alba laughs]
Jenny:​ Fair!
Kristin:​ But do you wanna talk a little bit—a little bit more about the specificity of
what you're bringing to the show?
Alba:​ Yeah, so I think… overall, in an overarching capacity, I'm bringing my lived
experience as a POC and my perspective as a POC fan of Buffy into the podcast.
And so watching the episodes through my perspective—which is ​not​ everyone's
perspective, it's of course my own experience and it's not all POC perspectives. But
bringing that perspective into the discussions around each episode and around the
show in general. And then also, trying to find places and be aware of places that
we, as the three of us or the four of us including Mack, are lacking perspective in
another area and where we can bring in more perspectives and different interviews
or, you know. Researching the lion dance for—and the dragon dance for Lunar New
Year or like, the importance of a gourd in magic. You know, 'cause it comes up
twice in the show—
Kristin:​ That was really a big stone we overturned.
Alba:​ [laughing] Yeah.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ Who knew what was underneath the gourd stone? I'll tell you what.
[laughter]
Alba:​ Yeah. Yeah, and you'll hear me later talking in the podcast this episode about
toys and my own relationship to toys as a POC. And how that has affected my
interpretation or my reading of this episode.
Kristin:​ You're also gonna be in-episode doing a segment for us, with somebody
else. So do you wanna talk for a minute and let them know what you're bringing to
the podcast, directly into their ear-balls just in moments?
Alba:​ Yes. Yes, so I had a really fantastic conversation with Kandis with a K. And
she is a witch from LA. And we had just, like, such an interesting conversation
about magic and witchcraft and kind of the practical aspects of that and how that


was implemented into the show. And it—I'm just so excited for everyone to hear it,
because there's also just like, really good pieces of wisdom and like, everyday life.
It's very applicable to everyone, whether you're a practicing witch or not or whether
you want to start practicing magic. And just kind of explorations on this magical
world that we live in and all these realms that we participate in. And it was just like,
a really—you know, magical conversation. [laughs] [Jenny laughs]
Kristin:​ I think that everybody's gonna be very excited to hear both of you in the
podcast. You're gonna be real excited to meet Kandis in a little bit, because she
fucking rules. And I think, you know, and you just gave voice to this, but I think
that what is so powerful is that both you and Mack are bringing your perspectives,
which are invaluable to us. But also, this direction toward places where we need to
find other people to also come into the fold, to also come into the conversation. And
we're learning together. And, you know, it's just—it's just been a wonderful start.
We're so, so happy to have you here, as a voice in the podcast. And to see, like,
how we grow together and what happens—
Alba:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ You know, as we go into the next season. We're just really fucking stoked
to have you here. So, you know. Thanks.
Jenny:​ Yeah, thank you.
Alba:​ Yeah. I mean, thank ​you​. Thank you guys too for being open and for
following through with your intentions. I think it says a lot, you know. I think
there's a lot of things about people saying that they're gonna do things or saying
that they're gonna change and they don't. And so I think that following through
with the intention, following through with the promises that you're making to your
audience is really important and sets a really good example for everyone listening.
Kristin:​ Thank you. I mean, you know, we are trying to take it one step at a time,
you know, and commit to things that we can do and take those steps. And, you
know, be ready to also trip and fall and get back up again. And so I appreciate that,
we appreciate that.
Alba: ​Yeah, absolutely.
Kristin:​ Would you like, before we roll into the episode, to hear the shortest email
from a listener of all time that I think is a delight? That was inspired by last
episode?
Jenny:​ Yes please!


Alba:​ Yeah!
Kristin:​ Okay! So Victor wrote in. I don't know if you remember me saying, oh,
Spike's RV flipped over in the desert and then they—it's used later and they make,
you know, drugs in it. And I was making a crossover joke that was like, not that
funny. But it inspired this email, which is why you should always just try, you
know? [laughter] Victor said, "If someone—if someone was cooking drugs in Spike's
RV, do you know what they'd be making?"
[pause]
Jenny:​ Would it be meth-vamp-phedamines? [Alba laughs]
Kristin:​ No, but that's great! That's great too!
Jenny:​ Oh.
Kristin:​ Alba, do you have a guess?
Alba:​ No…
Kristin:​ It would be… hell-meth, everyone. [laughs]
Alba:​ Ohhh!
Jenny:​ Wow! That is much better.
Alba:​ Ba-dum-chh!
Jenny:​ And much more in-universe for the pod. Wow.
Kristin:​ Alright. I think we have intro'd wonderfully and I think we should get
into—oh my god. I'm so scared, I can't believe it. It's Season 5, Episode 21, which
means that there's only one more episode of the season after this. [Jenny breathes
rhythmically] So you know, if you wanna pause, it's fine. We understand. Hold onto
it. [laughs] 'Cause it's all just slipping through our fingers. Are we ready?
Jenny:​ Yep, yep. Mmhmm. Ready.
Kristin:​ Alright, let's do it.
[Buffering theme plays]


Jenny:​ Hello! Hello. And welcome! [whispers] And welcome. [Kristin laughs]
[normal volume] To Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast where we're watching
and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, one at a time, spoiler
free. I'm Jenny Owen Youngs!
Kristin:​ And I am Kristin Russo. And hey, this week—oh, it's all happening! We're
talking about Season 5, Episode 21—that's 21 out of 22, folks. We're almost to the
end. [Jenny gasps] The Weight of the World. Stay tuned at the end of this podcast
every other week for an original song written by Jenny, recapping the Buffy episode
we are discussing. And hey, if you haven't started listening to our Angel podcast,
Angel on Top, you should do it. They're about to get to that episode called [makes
garbled noises]. So—[laughs]
Jenny:​ Ha!
Kristin:​ We're—who wrote this? Who directed it, Jenny? Where are we?
Jenny:​ Well! The Weight of the World was written by Doug Petrie, directed by
David Solomon, and originally aired on May 15th, 2001.
Kristin:​ Hey, this is the one, according to IMDB, where: when Buffy lapses into a
catatonic state, Willow uses magic to find out why. A tug of war erupts—[laughs]
literally—between Glory and Ben over Dawn's ultimate fate. [Jenny sings a little
tune] Well written IMBD this week, giving them credit where credit is due.
Jenny:​ Yeah, yeah.
Kristin:​ Jenny, I wanna start this episode this week by telling you that, you know,
my job here—your job too—is to like, watch the episode and to talk about it, right?
Jenny:​ Yes!
Kristin:​ And I had—I think I had, like, a sincerely deep emotional response to
where we are in the series. Because I could not bring myself to sit down and watch
this episode. Like, it wasn't like, super conscious in my mind. It was just like, I kept
being like, oh, I'll do it, and then putting it off. And like, even today—​today​ when
we're taping it, I was like, uh, I can wait another hour. And so I just sat with myself
and I—I was like, self, what's happening with you? Like, why are you not—and I
think it's because I'm getting really anxious about how far along in the season and
series we are. That like, we started this in Season 1, and then we were like, wow,
can't believe we're in Season 3! And now we're like, about to end Season 5 and that
makes me feel feelings. And I think I'm resisting it, so I just wanted to—


Jenny:​ Totally.
Kristin:​ Be transparent with everyone. That's what's going on.
Jenny:​ Yeah, I—it's weird… to be… right here. [Kristin laughs] Uh… right at just
about the end of Season 5! It's very weird. It's very weird. Also, my experience
rewatching this episode was like… I had less recall of like, everything that happens
in this episode. Except like, I remember the loop. I wonder if, like, every time I
rewatch this show, I like, get to this episode, see the thumbnail of pigtail Buffy and
[Kristin laughs] I'm like, ugh. I cannot… watch Buffy be a child stuck in a loop. I
don't know if I can do this and then—because Ben's room! Ben has a room at
Glory's freakin'... what even—okay. Okay.
Kristin:​ It's like—um, what's the guy's name in What We Do in the Shadows?
Jenny:​ Buffalo Bill.
Kristin:​ No!
Jenny:​ Oh. Oh, Guillermo.
Kristin:​ Guillermo! It's like— [laughs]
Jenny:​ Yeah, it's like Guillermo's dark little cupboard under the stairs. [laughs]
Kristin:​ Yes! It's like the Harry Potter, Guillermo, Ben connection there.
Jenny:​ Okay, so let me walk you through what happened previously on Buffy the
Vampire Slayer. [Kristin laughs] It was Glory, Glory, Glory, Glory, Glory, Glory,
Ben, Glory, Glory, Ben, Glory, Glory, Glory, Giles had a javelin in his ribs! [Kristin
laughs] And then do you remember that Buffy took down the Byzantium general
with one punch in the face? Because I didn't!
Kristin:​ Yeah, I didn't either. I needed that. I needed that recap. Yeah. Don't
forget, Jenny, that we get the—and I'm glad that we get the last moment with
Buffy, just so that in this episode, from front to back, we get two—at least two
gutting moments of Buffy. 'Cause the Previously On has that fucking face of hers,
sitting down, giving up. And—
Jenny:​ Yeah.


Kristin:​ I needed a reminder. I needed a reminder to feel sad and defeated. So
thank you, Previously On.
Jenny:​ Hurray! [Kristin laughs] So. Once the episode starts, the minions are
making a big fuss about packing up all of Glory's stuff because, what, she's gonna
wear dresses in her hell dimension? This isn't her, like, natural form, is it? Like,
what are we doing?
Kristin:​ I… have a question. And it is: when you are travelling inter-dimensionally,
what is the luggage policy? Like, do you get, like, two—you know, a carry-on, a
personal item, and one up to 50 pounds? Or like, is it increased for you because it's
a longer travel, more intense? Like, if anyone—
Jenny:​ I think—when you're a hell god, I think the deal is, it's like having a private
jet. You can bring on whatever you want as long as it doesn't, you know—
Kristin:​ The limit does not exist.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ Yeah. And they—you know, since we're talking about Glory and Glory's
clothing. They do a good job in this episode—first of all, Glory looks fucking hot in
that black pantsuit with that little belt underneath that little cloak thing. But my
point was not to talk about Glory looking hot. It was to talk about them doing a
good job giving us an outfit that fits both Glory and Ben.
Jenny:​ Yeah. Yeah.
Kristin:​ So that we can take them both seriously, you know? Like, it's like—
Jenny:​ Ish.
Kristin:​ Ish. Yeah.
Jenny:​ Yeah, Ben just looks like a—like a—like he's meeting Giles for like their
couple's wizard costume on Halloween. [Kristin laughs] Yeah. Excellent pick,
everyone. And—'cause imagine if what happens later, when they're like swapping
back and forth really fast between Glory and Ben as they, like, essentially trade
lines, talking to each other and like—
Kristin:​ Right!


Jenny:​ Tossing Dawn around. If Ben was wearing, like, a red dress and stilettos?
[both laugh]
Kristin:​ Right, right. Woulda taken a little bit of the edge off of the intensity of the
conversation, I think.
Jenny:​ Or heightened it to a breaking point.
Kristin:​ True.
Jenny:​ Um. Glory is disturbed to discover that she does not want to kill her
minions—
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ When she is upset. And she's like, really… she seems like she's being totally
overwhelmed by emotions and she doesn't know why. And I would just like to say
that usually when I feel like this, it goes on for about 24 hours. And I huff and puff
and yell and cry [Kristin laughs] and then I have a moment of a lightbulb going off
in my head. And then I open the period tracker app on my phone [Kristin laughs
harder] and realize that I am PMSing. But that's just me.
Kristin:​ Yep.
Jenny:​ That's not what's happening here.
Kristin:​ I mean, we don't know what Glory's cycle is, so…
Jenny:​ I guess that's true.
Kristin:​ You know. [laughs]
Jenny:​ But you know, having the magical barriers between you and the mortal with
whom you share a form break down, right?
Kristin:​ Do you think gods menstruate?
Jenny:​ Well—[pause] it's a great question.
Kristin:​ Thank you.
Jenny:​ If they're in control, like, no? [laughter] 'Cause if you didn't ​have to,​ would
you opt in?


Kristin:​ No!
Jenny:​ I don't ​think​ so?
Kristin:​ I'm about to get my period and I will tell you that just today, I was
thinking, why weren't we created with a button where we could be like, don't need
this egg. No thank you.
Jenny:​ Yeah, eject!
Kristin:​ Will not be fertilizing—[laughs] this egg will not be viable for fertilization,
so let's just skip it. We'll just let it go. Just release the egg, drop it outta the body.
Just, bye! Anyway. Continue, Jenny, you were—
Jenny:​ I guess that is what's happening.
Kristin:​ You were talking about something that was not gods menstruating.
Jenny:​ Well! [Kristin laughs] You know. Glory's just having a tough time, man. And
she doesn't know why and it's all new to her. And uh… she's like, I'm finally gonna
go home. I'm gonna kill fucking everyone. Why am I not happy?
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ And then she turns and says, "What do ​you​ think?" to Dawn!
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ Who's all tied up and gagged.
Kristin:​ It's really good. That's a good reveal. It's a—I like that moment, I think it's
well done. And hey, we've been giving a lot of credit where credit has been due to
Michelle Trachtenberg. But she's just really still—I keep—she's just—I would like to
go back to the beginning of the season where we were like, so do you hate Dawn?
Do you like Dawn? Everybody was like, "I hate Dawn! I hate Dawn! I hate Dawn!"
And I know not all of you said that, but from the beginning, I was like, I don't
remember disliking Dawn. And I feel validated in my own opinion, so. [laughs] I
think Dawn is fucking great. I like Dawn, I'm a Dawn fan, so suck it, everybody.
Jenny:​ Wow. Wow!
Kristin:​ Yeah.


Jenny:​ I think it's a lot easier to be a Dawn fan as an adult.
Kristin:​ Yes. Yes. I mean, I have full room for all of you who were teenagers and
didn't like Dawn. But I just feel like, Michelle Trachtenberg does a good job. I like
the vehicle that is Dawn, you know, like, the character and—
Jenny:​ Sure.
Kristin:​ Why the character is brought to us. And I just—I think it's good! I like it.
So, there. Anyway.
Jenny:​ I think she just has—she bears the burden of doing the most whining on the
show?
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ Which… is… you know. It's not the most ​fun ​thing—
Kristin:​ Sure, but—
Jenny:​ For somebody to do.
Kristin:​ Yeah, yeah. That's fair. But I'm—I don't know, maybe I—
Jenny:​ But Michelle Trachtenberg is doing a great job. Dawn is getting the frickin'
job done. It's all totally under control. Speaking of getting the job done, [Kristin
laughs] I have incredible news! Spike, with his little hand wrappings flapping in the
breeze [Kristin laughs] and his long coat flowing behind him, has hot wired Ben's
car! And I need a cold drink.
Kristin:​ Uh-huh!
Jenny:​ I need a fucking oscillating fan. [Kristin laughs] Is what I need.
Kristin:​ A mist—a mist perhaps?
Jenny:​ That's right!
Kristin:​ Mmhmm.
Jenny:​ This is—even though we don't get to see it, just know that it happened—is
hot. I also wanna ask our beautiful listenership, have you ever hot wired a car?


Kristin:​ Mm.
Jenny:​ Has this ever happened to you? If you have ever hot wired a car, I would
like to know about it. And if you could explain how it works in whatever way would
not legally compromise you or us—[Kristin snorts and laughs] just in case spreading
a how-to of… [both laugh] of car hot-wiring is bad practice, I don't know. But I'm
very curious about this. I feel like cars are one of those things that are actually a lot
simpler than we are led to believe? And by keeping us in the dark, keeping us away
from the information—
Kristin:​ Mm.
Jenny:​ Like, the keys that unlock the secrets of cars—
Kristin:​ Mm, mm.
Jenny:​ We are, of course, held hostage—
Kristin:​ Mm.
Jenny:​ To other people to take care of our cars.
Kristin:​ Mmm. Deep.
Jenny:​ Uh, is this—how am I doing?
Kristin:​ I think it's—I think it's time for The Patriarchy jingle, unexpectedly.
Jenny:​ Oh my god—ladies can mechanic too! [Kristin laughs] But alright.
[THE PATRIARCHY jingle plays]
The patriarchy! [thunder clap, evil laughter]
Kristin:​ Um, yes, that was my point, Jenny. Ladies ​can​ mechanic too and I feel like
the people that are often most withheld from on knowledge about cars are women.
So that's why we played the jingle, because—
Jenny:​ Yes.
Kristin:​ I think that I should know more about cars. And I'm actually—now that
you bring up hot wiring, like, I'm disappointed in myself that I haven't looked into it
more. It seems like something that, like, I've been on the planet for almost 40


fucking years. You'd think I would have had a moment by now where I'm like, you
know what I need to Google today?
Jenny:​ Mmm.
Kristin:​ A Youtube video on how to hot wire a fucking car.
Jenny:​ Wow.
Kristin:​ 'Cause it's that—I mean, there's not much sexier than you being able to
hot wire​ a fucking car. So.
Jenny:​ In case of emergency.
Kristin:​ Yeah. Anyway. We also learn, apart from all of our deep, deep attraction to
Spike and his hot wiring, that Buffy is still not here. She's not present. Xander and
Willow have this, like, brief exchange where he's like, can you just try again? And
you kind of think—like, it's almost like a little misdirect. Like, you kind of think
Willow's gonna do magic, right? But she's—[laughing] she's mostly just like, hey!
Buffy? Buffy? Like, are you… can you hear me? Are you in there? And then we go to
the credits.
Jenny:​ Yep.
Kristin:​ [sighs] Back at the Chevron.
Jenny:​ Okay. Back at the Chevron. So there's lots of in-fighting—
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ Going on here with the Scoobies, trying to figure out what to do. Nobody
really knows what's going on. Giles suggests that she's—that Buffy's experiencing a
state of catatonia?
Kristin:​ Mmhmm.
Jenny:​ Willow's uncertain about whether they should or should not move her.
Kristin:​ Xander has an amazing line where he says, "I am so large with the not
knowing." It's just such like a—I don't know, it's a nice phrasing—
Jenny:​ Yeah. Yeah.


Kristin:​ To be saying like, I don't know. You know, it's a nicer way to say that. So
yeah. And Spike resorts to violence.
Jenny:​ Classic Spike.
Kristin:​ Classic Spike. He—you know—and I mean—like, again, I think that his
mentality of like, she's the Slayer so you just have to like, trigger her fighting
instinct to bring her back—it's not off the map. I think it—I think that like, it was
worth a shot. [laughs] Literally.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ But it doesn't—it doesn't work. And then [sings] our boyfriends start…
touslin'! [both laugh]
Jenny:​ Also, usually I'm here for Spike being—saying something like, "when all is
said and done, I'm willing to wager Buffy likes it rough." But maybe now is not the
time?
Kristin:​ Oh, I forgot.
Jenny:​ You know?
Kristin:​ I forgot that he said that, yeah. Not okay.
Jenny:​ Maybe not now, Spike. But you're—
Kristin:​ Not okay, obviously the reason that we have room for Spike backhanding
Buffy is because of the fantasy genre of this show. But I agree with you. If we're in
the fantasy genre, cut it out, Spike. That is not a line for now, agree.
Jenny:​ But as you say, happier times, our boyfriends are tousling. Wow.
Kristin:​ They are! They're just—I wish that their fight was the same as the
Harmony/Xander fight, you know? They were just like, slapping each other.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ We get a little bit of that later.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ And—


Jenny:​ But they don't get very—they don't have long to get in because Willow is
just like, [deep voice] "separate!"
Kristin:​ [laughs hard] Can we give—we—listen. Who knows what will become of
Willow's next jingle, but like, this is either it or it'll change. But we gotta give her
something here, and I'll you what will not do for our Willow anymore, is the square
root jingle. It won't do.
Jenny:​ No, it's more like…
[Part of "Tough Love" plays]
You messed with the wrong witch!
Now you're going down, bitch!
You messed with the wrong witch!
Now you're going down, bitch!
I owe you! I owe you! I owe you pain!
Jenny:​ Okay, so—
Kristin:​ Whew!
Jenny:​ Love to see… leadership Willow.
Kristin:​ Ugh! Me too.
Jenny:​ Xander, you're taking Giles to the hospital. Anya, you're looking after Tara.
Spike, you're gonna go check in on Glory and see if she's still at Glory's hotel.
[Kristin laughs] And don't even think about veering from this plan and looking for
payback or I will kick your butt.
Kristin:​ Mmhmm.
Jenny:​ And Willow says she's gonna help Buffy. Wonder what that's gonna look
like.
Kristin:​ Mm, me too.
Jenny:​ Love this plan! Love a plan coming together.
Kristin:​ I love a plan and I agree with you. I need a little bit of that oscillating fan
you were using for Spike earlier for this—


Jenny:​ [laughing] Right?!
Kristin:​ Take-charge Willow. It's just—it's doing it for me. And then we get what
may be one of the most classic scenes—
Jenny:​ Oh, man!
Kristin:​ In the series. We're just gonna play it for you, because we all need to
experience it together.
[Clip from episode plays]
Spike:​ Uh, Will? Now, uh, don't turn me into a horned toad for asking, but
what if we come across Ben?
Willow:​ I don't think a doctor's what Buffy needs right now.
Spike:​ Well yeah. Especially not one who also happens to be Glory.
Giles:​ What do you mean?
Spike:​ You know. Ben is Glory.
Willow:​ You mean… Ben's with Glory?
Xander:​ "With" in what sense?
Anya:​ They're working together?
Spike:​ No, no. Ben is Glory. Glory's Ben. They're one in the same.
[long pause]
Anya:​ Well, when did all this happen?
Spike:​ Not one hour ago. Right here, before your very eyes. [pause] Ben
came, turned into Glory, snatched the kid and pfft! Vanished, remember?
[pause] You do remember? [pause] Is everyone here very stoned? Ben!
Glory! He's a doctor, she's the Beast. Two entirely separate entities sharing
one body. It's like a bloody sitcom. Surely you remember.
Xander:​ So you're saying… Ben and Glory…


Anya: ​Have a connection.
Giles: ​Yes, obviously, but what kind?
Spike:​ [laughs] Oh, I get it. It's very crafty. Glory's worked the kinda mojo
where anyone who sees her little presto-change'o instantly forgets. And
yours truly, being somewhat other than human, stands immune.
Willow:​ So… Ben and Glory… are the same person?
Xander:​ Glory can turn into Ben and Ben turns back into Glory.
Anya: ​And anyone who sees it instantly forgets.
Spike:​ [sighs] And a Kewpie doll for the lady.
Giles:​ Excellent. Now… do we suspect that there may be some kind of
connection between Ben and Glory? [Spike sighs]
Kristin:​ Oh my god! We've—and like, so many of you have been, you know,
tweeting at us or commenting on Instagram or whatever. It's where the jingle
originated from. It's just like—it's so fun and campy and funny that—I mean, you
know, the lore of it is that this spell has been done or the magic has been done so
that, even if you see Glory transform into Ben or Ben transform into Glory, you
cannot remember it. And it's—it's a fun little thread through this whole episode.
Jenny:​ I love it. I also think—I could be wrong, but by the end of this scene, Tony
Head looks like he is one millimeter away from absolutely… losing it.
Kristin:​ [laughs] He's probably just having so much fun!
Jenny:​ [simultaneously] He looks like he's hangin' on by a thread!
Kristin:​ Right. Oh, god. That's when you want—like, that—oh, are there bloopers
from Buffy somewhere? Like, are there outtakes? I would love, love—I would
delight in it. Anyway!
Jenny:​ Tell us if you know something we don't know.
Kristin:​ Over to the minions and the groupies.
Jenny:​ Okay, who would have thought that—beyond just the sort of like whatever's
going on with Glory kind of like, feeding on the brains of people—that she also…


turns them into unpaid laborers? Every person whose brain she has sucked is there
with a frickin' welding mask or a hammer, just like, getting the job done.
Kristin:​ I know. It's very, like, um… what were those—
Jenny:​ Efficient.
Kristin:​ The Doozers? The Doze—what were those guys in Fraggle—in Fraggle
Rock? You know? You know those little guys that were always down, like,
hammering little things? [laughs]
Jenny:​ Umm…
Kristin:​ I think they were called the Doozers.
Jenny:​ Oh my god, they are the Doozers. [Kristin laughs] They've got hard hats,
they've got toolbelts. They're very cute.
Kristin:​ They are.
Jenny:​ Yes, they're—this is a straight-up Doozer crew.
Kristin:​ Yeah, she's made a crew of Doozers. And they're building something. This,
I guess, vessel for Dawn and this ritual that has to take place at a very specific
time. Which—were we told that at any point until right now?
Jenny:​ No. I don't think so. Also—
Kristin:​ I don't either.
Jenny:​ This is the tallest minion I have ​ever​ seen. [Kristin laughs] This min—all the
other minions are like, three apples high. And this minion is like… taller than every
other cast member.
Kristin:​ You mean the special minion? The like, holy minion, the anointing minion?
Jenny:​ The, like, priest minion, yeah.
Kristin:​ Priest minion, yeah.
Jenny:​ Good gravy! Captain Anointer. [Kristin laughs] Anointer?! I hardly know
her, as I always say.


Kristin:​ Oh my god. Okay, so. This is where—
Jenny:​ Yo!
Kristin:​ Yes, Jenny—
Jenny:​ I'm so sorry!
Kristin:​ I can see your hands. I can see them, so—
Jenny:​ I'm so excited. Did you recognize when—okay, the tall minion is like,
anointing Dawn. And then Glory, like, in her state, kicks him out and she goes, "Get
out. Get out, get out, get out!"
Kristin:​ Yes!
Jenny:​ Which is literally a Dawn quote from an earlier ep.
Kristin:​ Yes.
Jenny:​ Okay.
Kristin:​ I did notice that, I did.
Jenny:​ They're not so—they have more in common than any of us maybe have
really given them credit for.
Kristin:​ I think—
Jenny:​ We're not so different, you and I.
Kristin:​ Yeah. I think Glory is well aware of it, you know? She's like—bud—and you
know, she's not wrong. I mean, you know, she's a god of chaos and destruction.
But she's not wrong in the sense of, like, they both are—like she says, like—our
human selves are—for girls like us, this body is a costume, right? It's just—it's a
costume over what we really are. And like, we share this thing, we're both going
home! You fit in a lock and I belong in my hell dimension. And like, we're—it's a big
day for all of us here. And—but you and I, we're like the core of this whole thing.
And it's—it's—first of all, Clare Kramer. Standing ovation.
Jenny:​ I! La-la-la-la-la-​love​ Clare Kramer in this ep! She's so great!


Kristin:​ Ugh. She's so good, 'cause she's really tasked with—you know, she's been
singularly focused for Season 5, right? It's probably—listen. I used to be an actor,
but I'm not gonna speak on behalf of actors. But I feel like… a dream to be like,
"my motivation is X." Right? Because you just go and she's going for that. She
needs the fucking Key, the Key, the Key, the Key, the Key. So you don't know how
the acting's gonna be when all of a sudden, you no longer just want X. You've
gotten X and you feel all these feelings for the first time. Like, that's a totally
different acting lift. And she knocks it out of the fucking park!
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ She's so good in this episode. And really makes you—just like every Big
Bad, I think, in the series, just like—meh. I don't know if I had a lot of feelings in
my heart for the Master, but I do like Mark Metcalf, so you know. But you know,
most of the Big Bads in this show, you have like a spot in your heart for. Like,
you're not rooting for them, but you also, like, kind of understand some of their
motivations—
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ And what they want and why they want what they want. Anyway. Glory is
bonding with—she's ​trying​ to bond with Dawn. Dawn is, of course, not having it.
And she's also really vulnerable, you know, and that's like, back to—it sort of
reminds me of back at the dining table when Buffy was like, hey, they could take
you away from me? When you all of a sudden, like, saw this little kid face. It's like,
Dawn's really there for the majority of this episode of just like, terrified. Too
terrified to be sarcastic, too terrified to joke, too terrified to say she's gonna fight
back. She's just in a place where she's like, I wanna go home. Please don't do this.
And—
Jenny:​ Mmhmm.
Kristin:​ [sighs] Clare Kramer's like, what is this horrible thing that I feel? What is
this feel—what is this ​nagging feeling?​ [laughs] And Dawn's like, mm, that's called
guilt, buddy. And that's what humans feel. And you know, to Glory's credit, she's
like, how do you people fucking do this? How do you walk around—
Jenny:​ Amazing question that we're all asking ourselves every day.
Kristin:​ We don't know! Yeah. It's—yeah. It's not an easy task. At all. We'll come
back to, like, more on this conversation too, because they're gonna get deeper into
it. But this is the beginning, and this is also, like—you know, we hear her say, like,


your blood is the key to the Key. It's always blood. It's always blood, right? I mean,
when is it anything else—which goes back to the question—
Jenny:​ Mmhmm.
Kristin:​ Of do gods menstruate? You know what I mean? Like, maybe they do,
'cause blood.
Jenny:​ Hmm.
Kristin:​ Like, blood's important. [laughs]
Jenny:​ True.
Kristin:​ Anyway, she says, "Tomorrow you bleed, little girl." Beautiful line delivery.
And then we go to this scene at Xander's that begins with Anya and Tara and
Willow. And you know, we've already given Anya credit and acknowledgement for
the fact that she's learning how to be a compassionate person, a person—speaking
of, like—this is like another thread of the same thing. A human—what makes you
human? What, um, what qualities make you human? These feelings. And so Anya
is—you know, Glory's trying to shrug off all this horrible shit. And Anya is trying to
learn, like, hmm, what is this and how do I operate with it?
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ And she's come a long way.
Jenny:​ I love the juxtaposition of, you know, Willow saying, like, wish me luck. And
Anya's like, [enthusiastically] "Good luck!"
Kristin:​ Yes.
Jenny:​ In a way that she, like, learned how to do it in a book. Or something.
Kristin:​ Mmhmm.
Jenny:​ And then once Willow walks away and like, goes into the room to do it,
like—kind of even like—maybe without even necessarily realizing what she's doing,
Anya's just like, [quietly] "Good luck."
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ Like, very earnestly, kind of like, under her breath.


Kristin:​ Yes.
Jenny:​ I love that.
Kristin:​ Yeah. Me too. 'Cause it's—it underlines that, right? It's like, she is learning,
'cause she just did it. She didn't even mean to do it, she did it. She said good
luck—
Jenny:​ Yeah, yeah, yeah!
Kristin:​ You know? Yeah.
Jenny:​ Wow!
Kristin:​ Yeah. [clears throat] Okay, so we have a lot of, like, big things to talk
about in this episode. But—and one of them is the state that Buffy is in. And we're
gonna get there—yes, Jenny. What is it?
Jenny:​ Oh, sorry. I thought when ​you​ said we had big things to talk about, I
thought you were gonna say, like for example, the fact that there's an old timey
welding poster hung over Xander and Anya's bed?
Kristin:​ Yeah. [laughs]
Jenny:​ What?
Kristin:​ Is it Xander and Anya's bed? Is Anya moved in? I'm not sure that that—
Jenny:​ It's like, even if Anya still has her place, that's Xander and Anya's bed.
Kristin:​ Yeah. It's very much—
Jenny:​ Anya has Anya's bed and then she co-owns a bed with Xander.
Kristin:​ This room is very—is done very well for like, a Xander who has a job and
some income now, but is still like—
Jenny:​ Right.
Kristin:​ In his low twenties, like—
Jenny:​ He's like, who am I?


Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ I love welding.
Kristin:​ [laughs] You know, he's got like, some fancy lamp that he's probably so
excited that he bought. And he's like, look at my beautiful room. But that aside, no,
the big things that I was talking about—one is the fact that Buffy is in this sort
catatonic state. And so Jenny and I are gonna talk a little bit about that, deeper
into the episode. But the other thing—and we've been… I don't know if you
remember us trying to conjure a witch, if you will. But we put a call-out to the
universe, because like, Willow is just shouting thing. "Shatter," mirror shatters.
"Separate," things separate. She's fighting gods, she's fucking—now she's going
into the mind of her best friend to find her and bring her out. Even Giles in this
episode is like, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Right? Like, this is some fucking
advanced-ass shit.
Jenny:​ And I gotta say, she makes it all look ​very easy​.
Kristin:​ I mean, this spell especially, right? She doesn't—there's no incantation,
there's nothing. She—I think she lights a candle? And she sits down and there she
is. And so Jenny and I, you know, we have our limitations of what we can speak to
and what we cannot. And hey, we found a witch, didn't we, Jenny?
Jenny:​ Would it be indelicate to ask, which witch?
Kristin:​ I'll tell you what, a lot of you—a lot of our witch listenership wrote in with
some incredible—and so I would encourage you to listen to our mailbag this season,
because it's gonna be full of some additional witch feedback. But we mentioned in
the intro, Kandis, and we have a conversation between—this is really exciting.
'Cause it's Kandis and our new producer, Alba. They're in conversation and they're
gonna talk just a little bit about both Kandis and her history as a witch and her
history with the show. And you know, maybe what she thinks about some of the
witchcraft happening in this episode.
[CHIME]
Alba:​ So thank you so much, Kandis, for being on this segment with us and talking
about witchcraft. We're so excited to have you on the show.
Kandis:​ Thank you so much for having me. I'm so excited to be here. A little bit
about me, I'm from New York originally. Moved to Georgia when I was 11, moved
to Philly when I was, what, twenty-something. And so I've kind of lived all over the


east coast and I've been in LA for six years. And I started identifying as a witch
probably around 2010, when I moved to Philly, 'cause there was a lot of witchy
stuff going on in Philly. There's a lot of spirits and a lot of history there. But I would
say that, um, being a witch is probably something that's been going on my entire
life. Starting out with dreams and really not having language to talk about certain
things. And I think when I finally understood the word "witch," I had a strong
identification with it. It just felt right for me.
Alba:​ Can you tell me a little bit more about the dreams and what you mean by
that?
Kandis:​ Yeah, so ever since I was little, I've had really vivid dreams and even like,
prophetic dreams, kind of prophetic feelings, you know, like, kind of an intuition
that I've been able to kind of develop over my life. But it started off when I was
really young. I think my mom told me about a dream I had when I was four years
old about being in the sky with Michael. [laughs] Which is an archangel and I just
feel like, you know, no kid is making that up. And then I remember one time, my
grandmother actually was attacked. And I was supposed to be going to sleep and I
just kept saying, like, I can't sleep, something's wrong. I can't—you know, I was
just really restless. And like, five minutes later, we got the call saying like, we
needed to come and check on my grandmother because she was, like, mugged or
something. So just those things I remember from childhood being very strong with
my intuition.
The thing that kind of pushed me over the edge into the spirituality aspect of life is
when my grandfathers passed away. So there was this weird thing that I kept
noticing that when I would be around someone… and then they would die, like, a
few days later. [laughs] So my grandfather took me on a cruise to celebrate me
graduating college back in 2009. And then when we got back, he got really sick.
And we went to visit him. You know, and then in a matter of days, he had passed
away. And then in 2010, my other grandfather, who's in New York, I went to visit
my family there. And he had just gotten out of the hospital. And they were like,
well, you know, you have a clean bill of health. I think I left New York on a Tuesday
or something, and Friday he had passed away.
I was reading a book about these people in Guatemala and how the wife kept
sleeping when she was at the resort—or you know, the place that they were
staying. And it was because someone was sick in another room and they were like,
transitioning and so she basically was helping them transitioning by like, going into
the astral world and sleeping near them as they, like, were processing. So I felt
that very strongly when it came to my grandfather, because every time I was
at—with my grandparents, I just like, couldn't stay awake. [laughs]


Alba:​ Wow, that's so interesting.
Kandis:​ It's really interesting considering this Buffy episode, right? [laughs]
Alba:​ Yeah, I'm just so curious to know, like, what you think about this episode and
the portrayal of Willow as a witch and magic.
Kandis:​ It's funny 'cause I remember watching Buffy, like, when I was in middle
school, still back in New York. And I would talk about it with my science teacher?
[both laugh] Which seems ironic, but—[laughs] like, we were very much into X Files
and Buffy and Xena. Those were like my top shows as a kid. And for Buffy in
particular, and this episode in particular, I think it's all really interesting. Willow is
essentially astral projecting to help Buffy, you know, kind of recover herself.
I think there's some elements that feel a little bit watered down, right? Like, one
thing that I thought was interesting—but at the same time, it kinda makes sense,
because if Willow is just discovering, right—she's not, like, an expert witch. She's
just now really kinda coming into her power. So like, there's that scene where—I
guess there's like a fight happening between some of the characters. And then
she—in her mind, I think, she says "separate" and like, pushes them apart?
Alba:​ Mmhmm.
Kandis:​ And I feel like that's really powerful, 'cause sometimes it is like that kind of
telekinesis energy? Of like, willing something. I mean, her name ​is​ Willow. [laughs]
Alba:​ Wow, I never thought about that. True.
Kandis:​ And then, you know, she's just kinda trying to do the best that she knows
how to do, right? The first thing that she does when she approaches Buffy is call
her name, which I think is super important. And like, that's the one thing that I've
taken into my own practice of calling my own self in sometimes. And I—and all the
listeners, I would say this is a very important thing to do for yourself, is to call
yourself in. And say your own name. One thing that another witch of my—friend of
mine does too, is like—she'll like, "I'll say my own name three times at the end of a
ceremony or a ritual." So I think to invoke someone, it is really important to have
the proper naming, right? There's so much symbolism, right, so that's the other
thing that I think that Buffy can help—and it probably did help people just
understand some symbols behind some of the magic that we make on a daily basis,
right? So she's like in the bookstore, putting—you know, it's like this whole idea of
like, knowledge or like, her—
Alba:​ Mmhmm.


Kandis:​ Constantly repeating like, death is her specialty? Or death is her gift? I
forget what she said—
Alba:​ Death is her gift, yeah.
Kandis: ​Yeah, death is her gift.
Alba: ​Death is her gift.
Kandis: ​And like, I can totally relate to that, 'cause I feel like—like I was saying
with my grandfathers, I feel a little bit like a death doula. And I feel called to do
that work, 'cause I feel like it's such—it's such important work. Like, a lot of people
focus on birth.
Alba:​ Mmhmm.
Kandis:​ But we don't focus on death as a part of life and a thing that is sacred and
a thing that should be held and regarded in a really, really high esteem, you know?
I mean, I think personally, like, I don't think it gets any… more powerful than that.
Like, what is more power—like, what is the most powerful transformation—
Alba:​ Yeah.
Kandis: ​That we have in this life?
Alba:​ Yeah.
Kandis:​ And that we can witness? On a personal level, you know?
Alba:​ Yeah. Yeah.
Kandis:​ So the idea is that she shuts down because she doesn't think she can win
the fight, right? And so—
Alba:​ Yeah.
Kandis:​ She just gives up. Your thoughts really create so much of your reality. So
when you—
Alba:​ So true.


Kandis:​ Get caught in thinking about lack or caught in thinking you can't or you're
not good enough, and you get stuck in that, then that becomes your reality. In
addition to calling yourself in, it's really important how you talk to yourself. And
how you let—how you allow others to talk to you. So like, we get programmed—and
I think society, especially if you're in America—I can't speak for other places, but I
think, you know—
Alba:​ Mmhmm.
Kandis:​ In America particularly—and particularly for myself growing up as a black,
you know, queer person.
Alba:​ Yeah.
Kandis:​ Black queer witch, right? [Alba laughs] It's like, this whole society has
taught us and programmed us—and not just me, it's teaching—it profits on us
hating ourselves, right?
Alba: ​Absolutely. That is the key of the profit, of the success, of the wealth of so
many people, is the kind of brainwashing that… black people and other brown
people and people of color are not worthy of success and are not worthy of
abundance, right?
Kandis:​ Right. Right. And then it—I think it goes even further, right? Like, I think
about how much we get sold on beauty supply stuff. And that's—that goes across
races, right?
Alba:​ Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kandis:​ And how much that they just sell—like, you know, it goes across gender.
Alba:​ Mmhmm.
Kandis:​ Like, if you're a man, you're supposed to be—you're supposed to look like
this and this is what you're supposed to do. And they program us to think this way,
right? And I think the great news about now and what the pandemic has done—has
started to deprogram. We've started to like, reprogram—deprogram that story and
like, get a new story and tell ourselves more loving and positive things. And—
Alba:​ Yeah.
Kandis:​ And band together in the way that we need to, you know?


Alba: ​Yeah, absolutely.
Kandis:​ I also wanted to shout out Willow's flannel snap down shirt? I really like
that.
Alba:​ [laughing] Yeah.
Kandis:​ The fashion.
Alba:​ Yeah.
Kandis:​ [laughs] The fashion in Buffy, you know—I feel like it's inspired a whole
generation of queer people, you know?
Alba:​ The like, bejeweled collar too, right? It's like, so good.
Kandis:​ Yeah! It was like—it had embroidery and it was just like—I was like, wow,
I had a shirt like that. [Alba laughs] You know? Like, I did!
Alba:​ [laughing] Yeah. [both laugh]
Kandis:​ One other thing that I would just caution people if they're like, really
getting into magic or wanting to do magic—[cat meows in background] my cat's
meowing outside. [laughs]
Alba:​ Yeah. [laughs] [cat meows again] So accurate—
Kandis:​ [away from mic] Hey, quiet down! [cat meows, both laugh] A witch and
her cat, right? [cat continues meowing intermittently]
Alba:​ Mmhmm.
Kandis:​ But Willow kind of just unceremoniously projected, right? And maybe that
was because of timing in the episode and maybe because again, she didn't know,
really, the process of what should be happening. But I think—
Alba:​ Mmhmm.
Kandis:​ If anyone's really doing that kind of work, you have to make sure that you
are calling in your protection through that as well—
Alba:​ Mmm.


Kandis:​ Because certain things can come up in that space. And you don't know
who that's gonna be and you don't know what it's gonna be. So I would just caution
everyone to make sure that they're cleansing properly and like, protecting
themselves through these spiritual journeys that they're on. And making sure that
they don't come back with any kind of negative attachments. I've got a term for it,
actually. I've—it's so funny. It came from a typo, but I'm calling it "intermatic."
Alba:​ Ooh. I like it.
Kandis:​ Yeah, like, it was a typo. I was trying to type "dramatic." But— [both
laugh] my phone—and this was years ago. And I was like, oh, interesting
autocorrect, like, made this word and I kinda like it. [Alba laughs] Like, I wonder
what it means. So taking those roots of the word, right, like… "inter" meaning to
bury and to go deep into the ground.
Alba:​ Mmm. Mmhmm.
Kandis:​ And again, in that, like, liminal space—
Alba:​ Yes, liminal space, yeah.
Kandis:​ That portal into, like, the spiritual space. And "matic" meaning like, to
exist on—of itself, or something like that. So it's like, existing in this inter space, so
like that, that inner, deeper, kind of shadow work space, so.
Alba:​ Very cool. I mean, I could just talk to you forever. About this. [both laugh]
We could just chat and chat and chat.
Kandis:​ Hey, hit me up any time, yeah.
Alba:​ Yes. Yeah, hopefully we can have you on the show again. I mean, it would be
just so great to hear what you have to say in the coming—coming episodes.
Kandis:​ Awesome. Thank you so much.
Alba:​ Yeah.
Kandis:​ Yeah, like, tune into my Witch Wednesday. If you're not on my
Instagram—
Alba: ​Yeah, where can we find you? Yeah.


Kandis:​ Yeah, I'm @Kandis.with.a.K, so it's like Kandis dot with dot a dot K.
[laughs] So it's kind of ridiculous, but at the same time, I think it does help me
stand apart from the other Kandises that might be out there. [both laugh] I started
Witch Wednesday during the pandemic, just to kind of connect with community and
like, give people a resource to kind of talk about and understand what was
happening in the astrology realm, but also like, in the spiritual realm of what we're
dealing with with the pandemic. So that's weekly on Wednesdays, at like, 6:30
Eastern, 3:30 Pacific, with my friend and fellow witch in Philadelphia. [laughs] We
kind of come together for a witching hour.
Alba:​ Great. And you have a film that you're about to… film. Right? [laughs]
Kandis: ​Yes.
Alba:​ You're going into production. Are you still crowdfunding for that?
Kandis:​ Yes! Okay, so thank you for asking about that. Because one, I will say my
company—I had to form a company in order to like, make this film. My film
company is named Intermatic. [laughs] Which I'm so excited about.
Alba:​ Ahh! That's so cool. [laughs]
Kandis:​ You know, it's like those things that you just hold onto that come back. We
are still crowdfunding, we are going into production on August 20th, which is like,
so soon.
Alba:​ Wow.
Kandis:​ Right now and for the rest of August, everything that we raise, we are
splitting proceeds with the Lebanon crisis. And so if you donate, you know—
whatever you donate, I'm donating half to help rebuild Beirut right now, and for the
rest of the month. So it's a really good time to donate if you feel interested to do
that. So you know, you can do double good.
Alba:​ Great, amazing. And you can find the link to that on your Instagram as well.
Right?
Kandis: ​Yeah, everything—all the links are in my bio on Instagram. We've got a
great GoFundMe campaign, that's where like, all the major updates are happening.
And then I kind of siphon that out onto Instagram, but yeah. Check me out and
thank you all so much at Buffering the Vampire Slayer.
Alba:​ Yeah!


Kandis:​ It's so cool! I'm so, like, excited for this.
Alba:​ Thank you so much for coming on. Yeah, thank you so much.
[CHIME]
Kristin:​ Oh my gosh! Fucking—
Jenny:​ Hell. Yeah.
Kristin:​ [sighs] Can you even? Can you even?
Jenny:​ I cannot!
Kristin:​ I know, I cannot either.
Jenny:​ And don't ask me to, damn it.
Kristin:​ Kandis with a K, I'll tell you what. I had the pleasure—like, when we got on
our first call to talk about this segment, I was just like, yep! You know when you
know, you just know? I knew. [both laugh] So thank you, Alba. Thank you, Kandis.
Kandis, I hope that we get to hear more from you on witchcraft—if there's any
more in the show. You know, I mean, I don't know—I don't know what's gonna—
Jenny:​ Who can say—
Kristin:​ Who can say?
Jenny:​ If there will be more witchcraft?
Kristin:​ Who. Can say.
Jenny:​ Not us. Certainly not us.
Kristin:​ You can learn—of course, learn more about where to follow Kandis and of
course, Alba, who you've been hearing about for a few episodes now, in our show
notes today. Yes, thank you both again.
Jenny:​ Cut to Willow! Inside Buffy's head! Inside the Summers' family home in Los
Angeles, you can tell, because there's art everywhere. You know, from the gallery?
[Kristin laughs] And… there's sort of like a fake Rothko. There's a lot of sculpture.


Kristin:​ The colors—
Jenny:​ Every room is like a bright pastel—
Kristin:​ Yes.
Jenny:​ Like, a really, like, sunny, light pastel color.
Kristin:​ This is the 80s, right? And so like, this is—just to bring you all back, those
of you who were with us in the 80s, and bring you there if you did not exist. This
was a time in which many households had toilet paper that was the color of their
bathroom tile? So—
Jenny:​ Oh, yeah!
Kristin:​ Remember that shit?
Jenny:​ Remember that?
Kristin:​ 'Member that? Yeah. You know what I remembered the other day? This is
a 90s thing, but I just have to say it out loud. Do you remember cars with
automatic seatbelts? Where you close the door and the seat belt was like [makes
mechanical sound] [laughs]
Jenny:​ [makes mechanical sound] Yeah.
Kristin:​ Okay, anyway.
Jenny:​ Why?
Kristin:​ The colors of the Summers home here are very well done in terms of
placing us in the 80s, I think.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ So—
Jenny:​ We see a little girl with pigtails. And some… era-appropriate bangs. [Kristin
laughs] And she says, "Hi Willow." And Willow says, "Hello Buffy." [dramatically]
Bum-bum-bum!
Kristin:​ And we're like, bam-bam-bam! Cut to Spike!


Jenny:​ [simultaneously] It's like, who else could it have been, but—[Kristin laughs]
Yeah, he swings by Glory headquarters. And this is where we get to—obviously
everything has been cleared out. And this is where we see Ben's little serial killer
room. Uh…
Kristin:​ So. I just… I need the spin off series called Glory Is Ben, Ben Is Glory.
Because I wanna underst—I wanna see Ben—what do the minions do, where do the
minions go when Ben is Ben and he comes home? What—I don't understand what's
happening here.
Jenny:​ Well, I mean, we've seen the minions interacting with Ben and they just
seem like little try-hards. They're just like, hello!
Kristin:​ Are they—is that when they're watching The Price is Right? [laughs]
Jenny:​ You surely—you love Glory too, right? Yeah, they're all watching The Price
is Right, all together, after a long shift at the hospital. [Kristin laughs] Ben cracks
open a beer. The minions drink their porridge or whatever. And you know. They
hang.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ Also, wait a minute. [Kristin laughs] How… going back to our earlier
wonderings about like, when Ben was a baby—
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ Did a baby turn into an adult woman and then back again. Similarly, how
did Ben come to be living here? Like, it's just all very mysterious.
Kristin:​ Yeah, and a lot of people wrote in to us, actually, about that. And said that
they think that perhaps, like, Ben was chosen as the baby to have switched bodies
with Glory, but that probably it was not until Glory's power built up strong enough
to actually use that body. Taking away some of our—
Jenny:​ Ohh.
Kristin:​ Humor, but bringing probably what is the truth to the situation.
Jenny:​ What would pass for logic in this universe. [both laugh]
Kristin:​ Yeah. But a lot of questions. What I was gonna say is that Spike does
something that I have always wanted to do—so I—I'm a former smoker. And every


once in a while, I have a cigarette, okay? I admit it. Deal with it. And there's
nothing [sic] about like, walking into an abandoned place where you're trying to
look for something and pulling out a fucking cigarette in somebody else's house but
they're not there. And you just light your cig—it's fucking good. It's good, I like it.
Jenny:​ It enhances the mystery, improves your eyesight by 20% for 60 seconds—
[Kristin laughs] um, but don't smoke, it's bad.
Kristin:​ Yes. Agree. Except for sometimes if you're me. [Jenny laughs] Okay, so
back into the dream. Or I guess—I don't know what we would call this. I mean, it
is—maybe this is a moment to talk about some research that we did together with
Alba on grief. And—because Buffy is—listen. First of all, the girl is the Slayer, right?
She's lost a lot. She sent her—I don't know if you remember, she sent her
boyfriend to hell. I don't know if you remember, she stabbed her girlfriend in the
stomach, put her into a coma.
Jenny:​ I don't know if you remember, she ran after Riley's helicopter but then it
took off too fast.
Kristin:​ I don't—[laughs]
Jenny:​ While we're running down the list.
Kristin:​ [simultaneously] At any opportunity you have to bring Riley into the
fucking conversation.
Jenny:​ [laughs] That's right.
Kristin:​ Yes, if you ask any Buffy fan the three biggest losses that Buffy suffers
[Jenny laughs] they will say… [laughs] but—
Jenny:​ I mean, for fuck's sake, she just lost her mother.
Kristin:​ Right. She—so she's accustomed—weathered, if you will—like, many,
many losses in her history.
Jenny:​ Mmhmm.
Kristin:​ And has grief on her shoulders—speaking of the weight of the world—all
the time. But she has just lost her mother, in conjunction with learning that her
sister is actually a mystical Key and people are after her, right? So the moment
when Dawn gets taken, especially in this greater context that, you know, to sort of
wrap up this whole episode, we learn that Buffy is in this state for various reasons.


And one of them is that she feels directly responsible for Dawn's death, even
though Dawn is not dead. But all that aside, she's grieving. And we did some
research, right. So grief. I'm just gonna read you—is it okay if I read a couple of
things, Jenny?
Jenny:​ I… am Jenny Owen Youngs and I approved this reading.
Kristin:​ 'Cause I find this very interesting. So grief—this is all coming from an
article, the Columbia Center for Complicated Grief, which is what we're talking
about in—and what we're thinking—like, the place that we think Buffy might be in,
psychologically. They say, grief is the response to loss. It contains thoughts,
behaviors, emotions—we know what grief is, right? I don't have to read you the
definition. But there are—there are different kinds of grief. Acute grief, as you
probably would imagine, is what happens in the early period after a loss, right? It
often dominates the life of a bereaved person; strong feelings of yearning, longing,
sorrow, memories of the person who died. Activities are often focused on doing or
not doing things to try to deal with the loss. This is like, in the wake of that loss,
right?
The idea, according to this article, is that you're moving to a place, in grief, to
integrated grief. Because you're always grieving, right? The grief doesn't go away.
You don't get over grief, right? It just changes its form. And so you're moving,
according again to this article, to a place of integrated grief, which is the lasting
form of grief. So that's where loss-related thoughts, feelings and behaviors are
integrated into a bereaved person’s ongoing functioning; grief has a place in the
person’s life but it doesn't dominate it.
That is where we get complicated grief, right? Because in complicated grief, the
process of moving from that acute grief place to that integrated grief place is
derailed. And when you are in a place of complicated grief, it's this persistent form
of intense grief and it can manifest in many different—they refer to it in this article
as "dysfunctional behaviors." I don't know how I personally feel about, like, those
psychologized terms. I think there's like a lot to the word "dysfunctional"—
Jenny:​ Mmhmm.
Kristin:​ That I would like to raise a little flag on. But I do think that at least in the,
hey, we're not doctors caveat—by the way, we're not doctors. We just read things
and talk about them.
Jenny:​ [laughs] Subtitle of the pod.


Kristin:​ Yeah, hey, we're not doctors. A Buffy the Vampire Slayer podcast. But I
think that this does—it makes sense, right? You're not wondering as the viewer—I
don't think—why Buffy is—has left the physical plane. You don't have to wonder
that, you don't have to ask that. I mean, she has lost so much, so repeatedly, that
even without all the pieces that we're gonna get folded in over this
episode—and—'cause there's more to it, once we get inside of her head. Just her
saying "fuck it" and leaving? Makes complete sense. She is—
Jenny:​ Totally.
Kristin:​ Overloaded with loss and grief.
Jenny:​ Oof.
Kristin:​ [sings a jaunty tune] You wanna go to ads now?
Jenny:​ Ha-cha! [Kristin laughs]
Kristin:​ Okay, so. Thank you for going on that dive into complicated grief with us.
It felt important to bring into the conversation. There's a lot happening in this
dream.
Jenny:​ Is it even… a dream?
Kristin:​ Right, I—
Jenny:​ Like, what do we call it? Right? This arrested state. Like, whatever's going
on here—this loop. Buffy's loop, right?
Kristin:​ Yeah. Buffy's loop. That's good, I think we can call it the loop, right?
There's—and Willow's following it. Willow's in there, Willow's on the loop. We're
seeing, of course, this first scene in the house. We get fucking fuck-ass Mr.
Summers. Fuck you. I hate you. Go away.
Jenny:​ Fucking—fucking fuck-ass.
Kristin:​ Yeah, that's right. Fucking— [crosstalk] IMDB, you look up that actor, it
says he plays Fucking Fuck-Ass. [both laugh] Hank Summers.
Jenny:​ Alright, alright. Well, happier times.
Kristin:​ Yes.


Jenny:​ Joyce and Hank.
Kristin:​ Mmhmm.
Jenny:​ And, ugh! Joyce! And her hair's so shiny.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ And I think—it's interesting to me. Like, it really stuck out to me here that,
you know, Willow says, "Buffy, what are you doing here?" And Buffy says, "I like it
here." She says that a few times.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ That it's like, yeah. If you were enduring trauma after trauma and loss after
loss, [laughs] like—
Kristin:​ Right, right.
Jenny:​ This is exactly where you would wanna go, to like, a safe place. Your family
is still one cohesive unit.
Kristin:​ Mmhmm.
Jenny:​ And Dawn has come home from the hospital. And little Buffy asks Joyce if
she can take care of Dawn. Which is like—
Kristin:​ First she says ​she w
​ ants to be the baby.
Jenny:​ Well, yeah.
Kristin:​ Right? Which like, I just feel like, as a Buffy—
Jenny:​ She does. Understandable!
Kristin:​ Yeah, as a Buffy character point especially, you know? Like, she's a—even
when Dawn entered the picture again now as the Key. Like, her instinctual
response, which makes sense, was like, man, now I don't even get this? I don't
even get to be, like, the point of focus here in this family? But then she does. She
gets this place of, I wanna take care of her.
Jenny:​ Yeah.


Kristin:​ I can take care of her. And then we cut to the first time we see her put the
book on the shelf. And I think, you know, this is done—I think the reason that I
keep saying "a dream, it's a dream" is because it's done so fucking well—
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ Very similarly to how so many of the dream sequences in this show are
done.
Jenny:​ Totally.
Kristin:​ And you know, I think for our purposes of talking about it, we know—we
know, right? But you don't know when you're first watching this. You see her put
the book on the shelf, you see the fire. You know, just by seeing the fire, that this
is a reference—that they're in the desert. This is from the quest [Jenny laughs] that
she just went on. [laughs] What are you laughing about, Jenny?
Jenny:​ I love when it cuts to the bonfire and Willow's just like, "oo-kay."
Kristin:​ [laughs] I actually love—later, when we go back to the desert, and Willow
sees Sineya and she's like, "oh, you're the first Slayer who tried to kill us in our
dreams. How've you been?" [both laugh]
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ Just like, very Willow, right? Of like—whatever.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ Anyway. We know, and I think we can talk about it from this perspective,
that the loop that Buffy is on is related to this book. And I think it's such a powerful
reveal when we get there, in the episode. I remember—you know me, I don't
remember anything. But I remember watching this for the first time, because I
never really thought about the book on the shelf? Like, I saw it but like, I didn't put
that much stock in it. And then like, all of a sudden, she says—both Buffys say—I'm
skipping ahead, ha-ha. But that this is the moment where I gave up. And we'll get
there, we'll talk about it a lot, right?
Jenny:​ And of course, it has to be. Because look at every other thing it's in
between. You know, like—
Kristin:​ Right.


Jenny:​ This scene, it seems so innocuous and—
Kristin:​ Mmhmm.
Jenny:​ So… ​quotidian​.
Kristin:​ Wow! Fancy word alert!
Jenny:​ Yeah, I learn words from… fast food… bread bowl restaurants. [Kristin
laughs] It's fine. It's just like, the only thing—it's like, one of these things is not like
the other. Except it is!
Kristin:​ Mmhmm.
Jenny:​ Because it's a big moment, we just don't know why yet.
Kristin:​ Yes, exactly. Just so well—I mean. Really, again, I beg of you to tell me
any show that does dream sequences or whatever you would call the loop
sequence—it—it just—I've never seen it done this well. It's very powerful. Anyhow,
we come out of the loop and we go to the [laughing] hospital. So this… this hospital
scene is so short and so delightful. The first fucking thing—
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ That happens is Xander, doing nothing wrong. [Jenny laughs] And you can
fucking pull that recording out, because I don't say that often. [Jenny laughs] But
Xander's literally just like, "how you doing, man?" [laughing] And Giles says, "it
only hurts when I answer pointless questions." It's so rude!
Jenny:​ Dude, I know that you just got javeline'd in your torso, [Kristin laughs] but
like, this is uncalled for!
Kristin:​ [laughing] It's so rude!
Jenny:​ Where is this venom when Xander does something shitty and nobody calls
him on it? [both laugh]
Kristin:​ [laughing] But oh my god, it just—and like, Nicholas Brendan's fucking
face. Like, his response is so good. It's just—'cause he looks—he almost, like, looks
at the camera, you know? He's like, what the fuck was that about? [both laugh]
Jenny:​ Okay, we get important info. Giles just in passing, almost, is like, oh wow,
that's like some really advanced shit Willow's doing.


Kristin:​ Yes.
Jenny:​ Then we see Spike stealing stuff off the hospital supply cart.
Kristin:​ [laughs] Same. Same.
Jenny:​ What is he stealing? What's he stealing? Maybe bandages for his hands that
got—
Kristin:​ Maybe…
Jenny:​ Fucked up in the RV.
Kristin:​ Maybe some blood bags. Maybe he's—maybe he found a little blood bag
cart. [laughs]
Jenny:​ They're not carting blood—yeah, like the hotel, like—
Kristin:​ [laughing] Yeah.
Jenny:​ Yeah, and then we leave a little packet—like, a little hotel-sized packet of
blood on your pillow. [both laugh] And he's just grabbing a fistful of those and
stuffing his pockets.
Kristin:​ Oh, that just made me think of how cute and boutiquey a vampire hotel
could be. [both laugh] Okay, so. We get, like, little cursory information, right? All of
the patients in like, the psychiatric unit are gone, right? All the beds are empty. We
know why, 'cause we've been watching the show. Spike—right, Spike is stealing
shit. Then they see Spike and—this shot is so brilliant. It's—we've seen this shot
before, Jenny. But not with Spike. Do you remember the vampire we saw—
Jenny:​ With Harmony!
Kristin:​ Yes! With Harmony. It's so beautiful. There's a non—no-smoking sign right
behind Spike and he fucking pulls out a cigarette and lights it. And at the request of
the wonderful Alba, and just for the obvious reasons—
Jenny:​ Decency's sake.
Kristin:​ Let's give it the Spike jingle.
[SPIKE jingle plays]


Spike! I love you
Spike! So dreamy
Spike! Your trench coat
Spike! I love you
Spike! Your black nails
Spike! Peroxide
Kristin:​ Okay—
Jenny:​ Well! [Kristin laughs] [singsong] He looks good when he's breaking the
rules! [normal voice] We also get from Spike, um, in this little scene, he's like, I
know this demon who knows stuff. His name is Joel Grey, he was in the original
cast of Cabaret. [Kristin laughs] And the original cast of Wicked, and he happens to
be in town and be really plugged into all the demonic goings-on. So I'm gonna
swing by his place and ask him questions.
Kristin:​ Right. I will say that I think that Joel Grey—like, I think they could have
written this character into Buffy the Vampire Slayer as Joel Grey. Like, I would
believe if Joel Grey also had, like, powers of the universe inside of his just—
Jenny:​ Oh, hell yeah.
Kristin:​ Self, right? Also, listen, not to put too fine a point on it, but this fucking
odd couple ship, Xander and Spike. Where… [laughs] you know, Spike has like,
found, you know, Ben's rooms at Glory's. And Xander, of course, is like, "Ben
was—after all this time, Ben was subletting from Glory?!" [both laugh] And Spike is
like, you know what, it's worth it. And he fucking clocks Xander on the back of the
head. They're both—they both scream "ow." It's just, make out already, you two!
Jenny:​ Yeah, do it!
Kristin:​ Okay.
Jenny:​ Do it for us!
Kristin:​ So Glory is starting—
Jenny:​ Give the people what they want!
Kristin:​ [laughs] Glory is starting to have Ben's memories. Ben, we will see soon,
is also starting to have Glory's memories.
Jenny:​ Yeah, yeah. She—


Kristin:​ The cloak, she says, is fading.
Jenny:​ Right. She explains to Dawn how, like, Ben came to the gas station in the
desert and then turned into Glory. And like, is like, do you remember? And Dawn's
like, yes I do.
Kristin:​ Yeah, yeah. And she's like, fuck! [laughs]
Jenny:​ And it's like, that's not supposed to happen.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ Glory implores the tall minion, please! Please. [Kristin laughs] Remove Ben
from me by any means—
Kristin:​ Mmhmm.
Jenny:​ At your disposal. But he says, this is the price—this is her personal cost—
Kristin:​ Yeah, she—
Jenny:​ For what she's about to do.
Kristin:​ She has a little bit of a tantrum, you know? Glory likes to get her way. I
imagine most gods do. And she's like, gods don't pay and we're doing this now! And
they're like, uh, lady? Um, excuse me? Uh, that's not how it works. If you kill the
girl now, you're never going home. But before we get that, we get a little loop. We
go back to the loop, right? We go to the desert, we see Sineya. Willow hears—I'm
saying Sineya, but really, hears the guide of Buffy's vision quest say—
Jenny:​ Right.
Kristin:​ "Death is your gift." We see the book on the shelf—
Jenny:​ Willow's like, wait, death is her ​what?!
Kristin:​ Right. [laughs] We see the book go back on the shelf. And then we go to
the Summers house and she's walking down the hallway. So we've stacked on the
loop now, but we cut back out of it. So we get this really awesome conversation
that we were alluding to a little bit between Glory and Dawn, about
human—humanity. Being a person. Who can do it, who wants to do it anyway? And


I think two things that I wanna talk about in this scene. One is I just wanna play
the line from Glory…
[Clip from episode plays]
Glory:​ ​I'm​ crazy? Honey, I'm the original one-eyed chicklet in the kingdom
of the blind.
Kristin:​ Just like, what? [laughs] Glory, what?
Jenny:​ Uh, yeah, you know, she's like… I guess she's sort of just saying, like, she's
the only person who's willing to admit that—
Kristin:​ Yes.
Jenny:​ That existence is bananas.
Kristin:​ Right, right.
Jenny:​ And like, you know.
Kristin:​ And she says—
Jenny:​ How and why.
Kristin:​ Right. And she says—and I think, like—what I love about this scene and
this conversation between them is that, it's complicated, right? This isn't a show—it
has never been a show that's going to present this argument like, Glory's wrong.
Being a human is joyful. Nor is it going to present this conversation as though Glory
is right. Because there's so much to being a human, and its richness cannot be
described in mere sentences, right? She even—Glory even makes reference to
poets, right? Like, this—
Jenny:​ Uh-huh.
Kristin:​ This is complex and it isn't something that Dawn can answer. And it's not
something that Glory will be able to answer. And you know, the fucking dig in twist
of the knife is that she says, "do you know anybody who can handle it?" And Dawn
says, "Buffy." And then we cut to… catatonic Buffy, who certainly is not handling it
right now at all.
Jenny:​ She's having a tough time. But before we go fully to her, I just wanna say,
"feelings? Hate 'em!"


Kristin:​ [laughs] Yes.
Jenny:​ Relatable content. And humans are puppets, relatable content, everyone
getting jerked around by their feeling—so—this is so great. It's such a great deal.
Kristin:​ It is.
Jenny:​ She lost me a little bit when she was like, everyone's smoking, drinking,
shooting up, shooting each other or just plain screwing their brains out. I feel like
she didn't get everyone? [Kristin laughs] I feel like that's not 100% of the human
population? [both laugh] And I would argue that shooting up actually might be the
smallest wedge of the pie she's discovered. [laughter] And like, maybe she could do
a little more research to cover the whole spectrum of—
Kristin:​ Well, she's feeling feelings for the first time, Jenny!
Jenny:​ That's true.
Kristin:​ She can't be held accountable—
Jenny:​ That's true.
Kristin:​ For every word choice she's making in this moment. I also [laughs] think
that "feelings, hate 'em" could be a great shirt. So put that in the vault for later.
Jenny:​ Agree.
Kristin:​ Okay.
Jenny:​ Um. So back in the loop. Buffy's walking into Joyce's room and her mother's
grave is on the ground, in the bedroom.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ And more important to me is the fact that there are still fucking masks on
the wall!
Kristin:​ Dude! Right?
Jenny:​ Joyce!
Kristin:​ Joyce!


Jenny:​ Learn. Your. Lesson!
Kristin:​ Could you imagine putting a mask on your wall after you got your
girlfriend killed by hanging a mask on the wall in the first place? [Jenny laughs]
Jenny:​ RIP Pat. [Kristin laughs] RIP Pat! And then, oh dear. Then she goes down
the hall to Dawn's room. And smothers Dawn with a pillow and says "death is my
gift."
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ Noo!
Kristin:​ Yeah. [sighs] This is hard and I—again, in the context of this loop, we
know what's happening here. And it makes a lot of sense. I mean, she's putting
pieces together. And she is the Slayer, so even though this isn't a dream and it is
something different, I do think that there's an element of Slayer power happening
here. Because she's pulling information up that is accurate, since at the end of the
fucking episode, it is revealed that the only way to defeat Glory, the thing that she
believes she cannot do, is by killing Dawn, the thing that she does in her fucking
dream. So she—even though there's, like, psychological reasons for this, even
though—yadda yadda yadda. I just feel like, the Slayer… you can take the girl outta
Sunnydale but you can't take Sunnydale outta the girl.
Jenny:​ Hmm.
Kristin:​ I said it.
Jenny:​ [laughs] You di—you did and I'm glad you did. [Kristin laughs] You know,
as this episode proceeds, I can't help but think, damn, there had to be a better way
for Glory to just like, go about, like, existence on Earth without involving a human
that she could turn into at the most inopportune possible time!
Kristin:​ [laughs] Yeah, but that's the way metaphytics works. That's the way magic
works, that's the way this shit works, Jenny, you know? Like, there's always a
catch. You can't just have anything be easy.
Jenny:​ Sure. Sure! Sure, sure, sure, sure, sure.
Kristin:​ So I get it.
Jenny:​ Well! It's Ben.


Kristin:​ Ben, what the fuck—what the fuck happens to Ben? What the fuck happens
to Ben? I don't—what? This is…
Jenny:​ First of all… man. We've seen Ben be, like, cute, sweet, charming, nurse?
We've seen Ben at The Bronze and parties, kind of like, flirting with Buffy a little bit.
And he's handled it all really well. What I'm not—[laughs] what is a little hard is the
extreme—you know, it's kicked up to 11. Emotions are running high, and I don't
know if Ben is up to the challenge of these emotions.
Kristin:​ [laughs] He's not.
Jenny:​ It really—
Kristin:​ [laughing] He doesn't handle it well.
Jenny:​ Where's all the blood? You know, the… the acting is a lot. The acting is like,
turned all the way up. [both laugh]
Kristin:​ Well, you know what's difficult, I think, for our dear Ben is that this
experience of a person or being remembering horrible things—we have seen that
done on this show before, by a character you may remember—
Jenny:​ Yeah.
[DETECTIVE ANGEL jingle plays]
Detective Angel!
Jenny:​ You gotta be in front of an open fireplace.
Kristin:​ Yes.
Jenny:​ You gotta be flicker-lit—
Kristin:​ Yes.
Jenny:​ Or you gotta have some Venetian—
Kristin:​ Exactly.
Jenny:​ Blind lighting. You know?
Kristin:​ Exactly.


Jenny:​ Your shirt should be open to minimum—
Kristin:​ A couple buttons, at least.
Jenny:​ Like, four buttons down.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ You know. You should be surrounded by the finest velvets—
Kristin:​ Mmhmm.
Jenny:​ And, um… art you've collected over the last 200 years.
Kristin:​ [simultaneously] And all this guy's got is some brocade. You know, he
doesn't have all the tools—
Jenny:​ Hmm?
Kristin:​ He's just got a little brocade. He doesn't have any velvet—
Jenny:​ It's true.
Kristin:​ No open flame. He's got all—
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ He doesn't even have buttons. So he just wasn't set up for success, but—
Jenny:​ Totally.
Kristin:​ Yeah, he's basically, like—he starts—this is the moment when he starts to
be like, concerned with himself, right? He's like… you know, Dawn is like, literally
about to fucking die. And he's like, why—Glory. It's just like fucking Glory, she
never fucking thinks about me, blah blah blah blah. [Jenny laughs] He knocks
out—I've referred to tall minion, just so you know, as D'Hoffryn. Even though I
know it's not D'Hoffryn, I had to look up if the actor was the same 'cause they
reminded me so much of each other.
Jenny:​ Oh!
Kristin:​ It's a different guy.


Jenny:​ Yeah, I see that.
Kristin:​ You see the resemblance though, right?
Jenny:​ You could also say like, Gandalf minion, or… [Kristin laughs] Magneto
minion because—
Kristin:​ [laughing] Gandalf minion! Okay.
Jenny:​ I don't know, I have—I have these two notes, "tall minion priest knocks and
Ben face-smashes him." Oh, "has anyone ever done this"—I was trying to figure out
what I meant by "has anyone ever done this." Beautiful listenership, I have so
many questions for you today.
Kristin:​ [laughs] Oh, you wanna know if—[laughs]
Jenny:​ Have you ever bashed someone else in the face with your face? If you work
in a stunt profession or you… brawl—
Kristin:​ Beat people up. [laughs]
Jenny:​ Recreationally. I don't know, I'm just so curious about this. 'Cause I
understand—you know, I have a puppy. And he's got a hard little fucking noggin
[Kristin laughs] that he occasionally will attack me with, unintentionally. He's just
like a little battering ram. So imagine a human head, which is, what, like eight
pounds or something…
Kristin:​ According to Jerry Maguire. [laughs]
Jenny:​ Right. [laughs] That's like, pretty big and solid. But it's like, if you hit one of
those with another one of them, does that… don't they cancel each other out? I'm
very curious. [Kristin laughs] Or maybe it's like, when you are playing pool—
Kristin:​ I think it has to—
Jenny:​ You hit one ball into another ball and the second ball goes flying.
Kristin:​ Yeah, I was gonna say. It probably has to do with not metaphytics, but
actual physics. It probably has to do with the angle at which you hit the other
person and the place on your head and the place on theirs, right? 'Cause like,
their—


Jenny:​ Oh yeah. My forehead into somebody's, like, delicate little nose.
Kristin:​ Yes. Yes.
Jenny:​ Probably. The money shot!
Kristin:​ So yeah, if you have head-banged any of your enemies, do write into us
[laughing] at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com and please let us know.
Jenny:​ Jenny has a right to know!
Kristin:​ You know who might know the answer to that question, is LaToya
Ferguson. Because…
Jenny:​ LaToya knows some stuff.
Kristin:​ LaToya knows some stuff about wrestling. And I bet you she would have—
Jenny:​ Yep.
Kristin:​ I bet you she would weigh in on that. So we'll have to make a little
earmark that the next time we talk to LaToya, we can ask her. [laughs]
Jenny:​ Oh yeah.
Kristin:​ Okay, so. We're back to Buffy and she's like, do you like dolls? And we're
like, we've been here before. [laughing] Willow has an amazing line. "I think we've
already deja'd this vu." Nice one.
Jenny:​ Nice. Very nice.
Kristin:​ And—yeah, and Jenny, you and I—we've—I mean, if you've been listening
to the last few episodes, you know we've been bringing in our new producer Alba a
good amount. And when we were talking about this episode, she brought up this
scene in particular, because of the doll that Buffy is holding, right? Buffy is very,
very pointedly holding a doll that looks just like herself.
Jenny:​ Mmhmm.
Kristin:​ Something that I think many white—I'm gonna say white girls in the 90s,
because we were not at a place where most of the world was giving dolls to anyone
but girls. And most white girls were able to find dolls or their parents were able to
find dolls that looked like them. And so I just wanna bring Alba into the episode for


a minute, because she wants to talk about this scene and sort of like, the extension
of this in her life and her experience of Buffy.
Alba:​ This might seem like a really small point for a lot of people, but for me
growing up, a brown girl in North America—my mom is from Venezuela, my dad is
from Chile. I never looked like the ideal beauty standard of—or North American
beauty standards. And so picking and choosing dolls was a complicated thing for me
growing up, because my hair, my skin, my eye color were not things that I saw on
pop culture very often. And if I did, they weren't often painted in a good light. And I
didn't want a doll that looked like me. Instead, I wanted a doll that looked like
Buffy.
The fact that Buffy grew up with a doll that looked exactly like her is a reflection of
her privilege within society. She never had to worry about whether or not her
appearance was accepted, and so she could accept symbols that looked like her
without hesitation. And this wasn't the case for many young girls and boys and
nonbinary people growing up in North American society, or in Western culture, I
think. And I think this permeates, like, the entire world and neocolonialism and all
of these things. So even though it's a really small point, seeing Buffy with a doll
that is almost in the exact image as her, sparked a point for me and something that
I noticed, where it might not be something that other people notice right away.
Kristin:​ Thanks, Alba.
Jenny:​ Oh, yeah. I think this is an experience that, um—that you and I have the
privilege of not—of not being aware of while growing up. Alba really got me thinking
about sort of like, visible identity and invisible identity.
Kristin:​ Mm.
Jenny:​ Because like, as a kid growing up, I was not at all interested in playing with
dolls, that felt, like, very disconnected. And I had a lot of like, kind of like, anxiety
and discomfort because I would get dolls, like, as presents—
Kristin:​ Mmhmm.
Jenny:​ From relatives and stuff, who were just, you know, like, doing standard,
like, "girl present" gifts, right?
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ There's so many, like, layers to what we form children's contextualizations
of themselves, or like, try to?


Kristin:​ Yeah. I think when you and I started talking more about anti-racism in this
podcast specifically, like, we did get some feedback that was like, okay, but this is a
show about a vampire slayer. Like, what are you really gonna do? And it's like, well,
this is—this is just it, right? Like, it's always here. It's always present. The media
that we consume, the things we're seeing, it's telling us something. It's ​always
telling us something. And at this point in our, like, growth and learning, right, we're
able to say like, okay, so what is it telling us and why the fuck is it telling us that?
And what's the problem here? But when you're a little kid, that is not usually how
your brain is intaking things. You're learning just verbatim, you know? What is put
on the table is what you're picking up to look at. And so it's harmful and important
to look at. And so Alba, thank you again for bringing that into the fold here.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ And you know, just so fucking excited to have you on board with us and to
be working with you.
Jenny:​ Hell yeah.
Kristin:​ Okay.
Jenny:​ Okay, we hear again that Buffy loves it here. Little Buffy, she just loves it
here. And why wouldn't she? She has no responsibilities. Except to like, hang out in
her play area. Ugh. To be… a tiny child. And Willow sees Book Buffy again.
Kristin:​ Mmhmm.
Jenny:​ Before we cut to Spike and Xander, out on a… don't call it a date.
Kristin:​ Oh!
Jenny:​ They're just going to visit a friend.
Kristin:​ Would love for their second date to be Joel Grey making them cocoa, you
know? What a lovely second date. I love that—I love that Doc is like, yo, do you
want some cocoa? Because it's as though he's like—
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ An all-knowing, all-seeing entity who knows that Spike loves his little
marshmallows. [laughs]


Jenny:​ Oh, yeah! Absolutely. One thing I just wanna point out here is that we
get—we return to the delightful bit of Xander, like, figuring out, "whoa! Did you
realize that Ben is Glory?" which is great. But then Spike says, "Special Ed
remembers"—
Kristin:​ Yes. Yes.
Jenny:​ Which we hate!
Kristin:​ Yes, we do.
Jenny:​ Uh, no thank you, Spike. Keep—
Kristin:​ Spike is—
Jenny:​ Your ableism.
Kristin:​ Yeah, I was gonna say, Spike is, you know, fairly homophobic. Which I
think we can chalk up to like, his internalized homophobia? So I'm willing to give
him—not a pass on his homophobia. But like, I think it's complex. I think there's
more complexity there. His ableism, though? That's, uh… that's just some bullshit.
And he is—repeated—repeatedly says things and does things that are ableist. And
saying "Special Ed" is one of them. So, nope. Hey! Doc—Joel Grey. Can we just call
him Joel Grey? Like, to me that is the character.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ He is like, Glorificus? You don't wanna mess with her, like, I'm a small
town guy. She's a big city girl. [Jenny laughs] And Spike really notices him, like,
edging over to sort of protect this box, right?
Jenny:​ This is so—
Kristin:​ It's always about blood and it's always about a box.
Jenny:​ I just feel like Joel Grey wouldn't do this? Like, he…
Kristin:​ I agree. I agree.
Jenny:​ This feels out of character for this demon, who seems very, like, cool and
collected.
Kristin:​ Yeah, I—


Jenny:​ Like, there's no reason they would have their attention drawn to that box at
all.
Kristin:​ No, and if they had, he woulda just fucking killed th—you know what I
mean? Like, I just feel like he's—
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ Powerful enough to not inch over to hide something. I agree, I thought
that was a little off. But—
Jenny:​ But he does.
Kristin:​ He does.
Jenny:​ And we get this great [whispers] "idiot" whisper. So, like, creepy and good.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ And he's got a great big sword.
Kristin:​ And a great big tongue!
Jenny:​ Yup!
Kristin:​ This was like the first—
Jenny:​ And he kicks Spike in the face!
Kristin:​ [laughs] He does. Listen. I know we've had a lot of sexual—um, sexually
tense moments between Xander and Spike, Spander, if you will. But when—first of
all. First of all! Spike reaches into the fire, oops, hurts his hands again! Wonder
who's gonna light his cigarettes for him? [both laugh]
Jenny:​ [laughing] Oh my god…
Kristin:​ Second of all. Xander picks up the fucking sword and ki—first of all, great
kill, Xander. I know I've said "first of all" 800 times. You just—this is who I am, you
signed up for it. But he kills—well, he doesn't kill him. But we think he kills Joel
Grey. The way Spike looks at Xander when he kills Joel Grey is full of sex
and—and—and—


Jenny:​ Hmm.
Kristin:​ Candy. [laughs]
Jenny:​ Oh!
Kristin:​ [sighs] Anyway.
Jenny:​ They leave, Joel Grey's eyes fly open.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ Willow, back inside Buffy's mind, is stopping Buffy on her loop. You know,
saying, "you never killed your sister."
Kristin:​ Mmhmm.
Jenny:​ Seems like important info.
Kristin:​ This, like—the way we get to the alley scene, to me, is so ridiculous.
Because I just can't imagine a reason why Dawn would knock Ben out. Like, just
tell Ben, stay. Like, Ben would have—you know what I mean? Ben will agree to—at
this point, at least. I don't think that she needed to knock him out. And of course,
the jolt of being knocked out turns him back into Glory. Also, so convenient there
was just a pile of chains in this alley. I believe it, it is Sunnydale.
Jenny:​ I always—whenever I enter an alley, the first thing I do is scan for a pile of
chains. Of course!
Kristin:​ [laughs] Pile o'chains.
Jenny:​ I think she knocks Ben out because she doesn't trust him.
Kristin:​ Yeah, okay.
Jenny:​ Or because—you know, she can't—she has no guaran—she's the only
person who's thinking about when Ben might turn into Glory [both laugh] or Glory
might turn into Ben.
Kristin:​ Okay, that's fair, that's fair.


Jenny:​ Unfortunately, it has the opposite effect of what she's hoping for. Because
here's Glory. She says, "you hit Ben in his soft human head. And I remember the
pain." Oh no!
Kristin:​ Yeah, it's getting really muddy over there in the Ben/Glory land. Ugh, let's
play the jingle already. God, this is the episode that the—the summary of this
episode is…
[BEN IS GLORY jingle plays]
Ben is Glory! Glory is Ben!
Ben is Glory! Glory is Ben!
In case you forget, I'll say it again
Ben is Glory and Glory is Ben!
Kristin:​ Okay, so this is the most "Glory and Ben" Ben and Glory get. They are
Ben, they are Glory.
Jenny:​ It's a ping pong match. [Kristin laughs] Whip, whip, whip, whip, whip.
Kristin:​ Glory offers Ben immortality in exchange for allowing her to finish this
task. And he says, and I agree with him, "I believe you." I do believe Glory. I, like,
fully believe that if Glory opens this portal and she gets back on her throne of
god-dom, that she will take care of Ben, if he does this for her. I think she's a
woman of her word. A god of her word.
Jenny:​ I don't know.
Kristin:​ And you think—you think—don't you think that Ben is gonna say "fuck
off"? And save Dawn? Don't you think?
Jenny:​ That's what a good guy would do. That's what we are conditioned to think
Ben is gonna do, but no, he's looking out for #1.
Kristin:​ Fucking Ben. You know, I thought he was gonna be a good guy. Stupid
me.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ He hands Dawn off to the fucking minions.
Jenny:​ I love how they just, like—he swept down the—this street in his flowing
robe into this alley, only to have this pingpong match with his—his, uh, other self.


And then sweep back out of the alley into the street. And—like, why did Glory even
need him to agree—like, the minions were right frickin' there!
Kristin:​ [laughing] Right.
Jenny:​ You know?
Kristin:​ As we've discussed in this season, Jenny, the minions are horrible at their
job. They were probably playing fucking pinball at the local arcade, you know?
Jenny:​ Mmm. Yeah, yeah. They were trying to have second breakfast. [both laugh]
Kristin:​ Okay, so. Here we are at the end of this episode. And this is when we
learn, right—this is when, when we're watching it for the first time, we learn that
the moment that—there's two Buffys now. The Buffy that has accompanied Willow
to the Magic Box and the Buffy that is putting the book back on the shelf, yet again.
Jenny:​ Mmhmm.
Kristin:​ And… she says to Willow, "this is when I quit. You know, it was just for a
second. [Jenny sighs] But I knew in that second, I couldn't beat Glory. I knew that
Glory was gonna win. I could feel it. And then, to add to the thing that she is
carrying—the thing that makes this the weight of the world is not even that she quit
for a second. It's not even that she knows she can't beat Glory. The reason she's
carrying the weight of the world is because she says, "I wanted it to happen. I
wanted it over. This is, all of this, too much for me." I could cry in this recording
closet of mine.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ Because it is so devastating. And she just—she blames herself for Dawn's
death. She blames herself for everything, and she also wants it at the same time,
because she just can't anymore.
Jenny:​ And then Willow does something…
Kristin:​ Mm.
Jenny:​ That I thought, in add—like, lining right up with when she came up with a
plan and divvied out—delegated some tasks. Willow does something else that is
very Buffy-like.
Kristin:​ Mmhmm.


Jenny:​ She takes in this information and says, "Okay. Snap out of it."
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ This is called guilt, it's an important feeling but it's not more than a feeling.
You know, your sister's not dead yet.
Kristin:​ Right.
Jenny:​ But that could change if you don't help her right now.
Kristin:​ Right. And there's—I think there's, like—[sighs] given the larger context of
where we are, obviously this was the move, right? Willow needed to get Buffy back,
because they're trying to save Dawn's life. But when you look at this through a lens
of, this is—Buffy is really in it in a deep, deep spot of grief. And she also is
describing depression and a place of giving up, of not having hope. And so that, you
know—if you look at it from that angle, like, Willow being like, "snap out of it" is not
the effective way. This is, again, a complicated metaphor, one that we may or may
not see play out, you know, in the future.
Jenny:​ Mmhmm.
Kristin:​ So we'll just leave that a question mark. But I think what the show is
trying to do is set up this parallel, right. We saw Glory at the beginning of the
episode saying, what is this feeling? Why do you want it, it's awful. It's guilt. And
Glory's beginning to feel it. But then at the end of the episode, we're hearing Willow
say, this is guilt and it is okay to feel it and you need to keep—you need to keep
being a person, right. You need to keep putting one foot in front of the other, you
need to come and save your sister. And Buffy does.
Jenny:​ Yeah! But when they both come out of it in—
Kristin:​ Ugh!
Jenny:​ Xander's bedroom.
Kristin:​ Ugh.
Jenny:​ Man.
Kristin:​ Ugh.


Jenny:​ Buffy just… crumples.
Kristin:​ This—that moment. I mean. I know there's a lot of 'em. I know we're like
broken records at this point. But like… Sarah Michelle Gellar in that moment, when
she comes out and looks at Willow and it all hits her. And she just sobs? You sob.
Right? Like, you just sob.
Jenny:​ Mmhmm.
Kristin:​ How can you watch this and not sob with her? Knowing everything—
knowing everything that she's been through and then heaven forbid you know
everything that comes after. You know, like, it's just… it's so much. And it's done
beautifully, beautifully. And this is… you almost think, like, how could you even take
their friendship further? How could you even get them closer? How could you—how
could you experience more with these two as best friends? And then, there's more.
There's always more. Which is true for life, right? I mean, my best friend—I've been
her best friend for 20 years and every time I think we've—that's it, we've reached
the peak, you know? Something else in life happens and you're there for each
other. And how do you show up for each other?
Jenny:​ Mmhmm.
Kristin:​ And what does that do, how does it deepen those grooves that you have in
your relationship? And these two are gorgeous and stunning in their friendship for
each and the way that they show up for each other. And yeah, I'll just be over in
the corner, crying for the rest of—
Jenny:​ [laughs] Sure.
Kristin:​ Season 5. So.
Jenny:​ Well! Then let me tell everybody [laughs] that… [Kristin laughs] the
Scoobies are at the Magic Box, Avengers assemble. And Xander's like, "did you
know that Ben is Glory?" and Buffy's like, "So I'm told." And then. Uh-oh. Dad has
some bad news.
Kristin:​ Oh, Dad has the ​worst​ new—bummer Dad.
Jenny:​ Yeah. Eegh.
Kristin:​ Yo. This is so fucking—we're, like, joking because it's at the point in the
season where if we don't joke, we will just stop podcasting.


Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ I think, Jenny—I think—like, we all know what's gonna happen. And I think
there's nothing more cruel we could do to our listeners than just play the sound clip
of how this episode ends. What do you think?
Jenny:​ Let's do it. Sorry, guys.
[Clip from episode plays]
Giles:​ Glory plans to open a… dimensional portal by way of a ritual
bloodletting.
Buffy:​ Dawn's blood.
Giles:​ Yes. Once the blood is shed at a certain time and place, the fabric
which separates all realities will be ripped apart. Dimensions will pour into
one another, with no barriers to stop them. Reality as we know it will be
destroyed and… chaos will reign on Earth.
Buffy:​ So how do we stop it?
Giles:​ The portal will only close once the blood is stopped. And the only way
for that to happen is, um… [pause] Buffy, the only way is to kill Dawn.
Jenny:​ And with that, we direct you… to the Sexual Tension Awards! [Kristin
laughs] Ahhh!
[SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays]
Sexual tension award!
Jenny:​ Well! This episode is chock-full of...
Kristin:​ Yes.
Jenny:​ Earthly delights! [Kristin laughs] We have some considerations for you. It's
a little bit of a… oddball episode.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ A lot of dark horses—
Kristin:​ Mmhmm.


Jenny:​ In the race.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ And let's just, hmm, talk about them. [Kristin laughs] First of all, you know
one—one assemblage you could cast your vote for, should you choose to do so, is
Ben and Glory. You know—
Kristin:​ I mean, they deserve it.
Jenny:​ They've been together forever. But tensions are high. And—
Kristin:​ Ben and Glory are like—this whole episode, they're like, [sings] "I've been
working my way back to you, babe!" [Jenny sings tune] Except they're saying—
Jenny:​ Yeah!
Kristin:​ [sings] "I've been working my way back to you, Ben! Got a burning love
inside…" Give it to 'em. [Jenny sings tune] Mom says vote Ben and Glory.
Jenny:​ Ha! Okay. Unless you'd like to cast your vote for the coupling in the second
slot, which is Spike and Xander. Come on! They've earned it! They've got so much
going on.
Kristin:​ They do.
Jenny:​ Mysteriously, Kristin nominated "Doc and his own tongue."
Kristin:​ [laughs] To state it clearly for the record, I actually—
Jenny:​ I have nothing to say about it!
Kristin:​ I said "Joel Grey and his own tongue." So. [both laugh]
Jenny:​ Okay. And in the fourth slot, the clear victor, [Kristin laughs] the only vote
that makes sense, it's Jenny and Spike hot wiring Ben's car. Please vote Jenny and
Spike hot wiring Ben's car, thank you!
Kristin:​ No. I'm sorry, but I didn't—
Jenny:​ Cast your vote!


Kristin:​ I don't know if you read the fine print in the Buffering the Vampire Slayer
rulebook. But it clearly states that Jenny may not win more than two Sexual
Tension Awards before Kristin has even won one. So you're—
Jenny:​ I mean…
Kristin:​ Disqualified!
Jenny:​ What the hell! Vote for me in the fourth slot. [both laugh] You can find the
poll on our Twitter, @BufferingCast. Cast your vote. Make your voice heard.
[SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays]
Sexual tension award!
Kristin:​ Wow, Jenny. Hey, you know what I meant to say to you. This episode is
dedicated to you, because it's called [Jenny gasps] Weight of the World. Which…
the acronym for that is "wow." It's a Jenny special. [both laugh]
Jenny:​ [laughs excitedly] Wow. [Kristin laughs] Well! I always knew it would come
down to this, of course! I'd like to thank the Academy. You know, it was an honor
just to be nominated.
Kristin:​ Alright, alright.
Jenny:​ And then to see this beautiful episode all about me come to fruition, what
an honor.
Kristin:​ Tell me who you are.
Jenny:​ [clears throat] Yes, well. I'm Jenny Owen Youngs. [both laugh] And! When
I'm not watching Buffy, gosh, I'm usually writing songs and recording songs. In
fact, I just put a new one out just on Bandcamp, over at
Jennyowenyoungs.bandcamp.com, on Friday. You can hear it there. You can also
learn more about me at Jennyowenyoungs.com. You can give me a shout on Twitter
@JennyOwenYoungs. And oh my god! If you don't wanna listen to me sing or when
you're done listening to me sing, you could listen to me talk about another petite
blond protagonist on my other podcast, Veronica Mars Investigations.
Kristin:​ Wow… hey, I'm Kristin Russo. And when I'm not talking about Buffy the
Vampire Slayer from my closet, I am doing some other things. I am back with
Joanna Robinson. This week, I will—by the time this airs, I will have seen
Terminator, Terminator 2: Judgement Day and Terminator… 6.
Something-something-something. I don't know what the third one's called, but—


Jenny:​ [quietly] Are there six of them?
Kristin:​ I am back with Feels Like the First Time. That's a Patreon-only podcast.
It's on our Patreon and also on The Storm's Patreon account. It's where I watch
movies for the first time that I've never seen before, even though they are iconic
pieces of our shared pop culture history. So you can check me doing that or you
can go to my website, KristinNoeline.com. That's K-R-I-S-T-I-N N-O-E-L-I-N-E and
learn about the work that I have done and am doing with LGBTQ communities. How
'bout that? You can use that nifty spelling of my first and middle name to also find
me on Twitter and on Instagram. You can even see what the inside of my podcast
closet looks like. Joanna Robinson and I are on a podcast-closet-off. It's like, what I
imagine—
Jenny:​ Ha!
Kristin:​ Like, men do with their man caves. You know? Like, I'm like, oh yeah,
well, I got this sunflower print-up. And she's like, oh yeah? Well, I got—[Jenny
laughs] so we're just gonna try to one-up each other till the end of time.
Jenny:​ Hell…
Kristin:​ Anyhow. Who are we?
Jenny:​ Yeah. Well! Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on Twitter, Facebook and
Instagram @Bufferingcast. Or you can drop us an email at
bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com. Or you can leave us a voicemail at area
code 216-30-BUFFY.
Kristin:​ Hell yeah! You can support what we do here if you'd like to. We would love
it. You can join our Patreon family, bufferingthevampireslayer.com. Just click on
Patreon up there. You can head to our store. We've got some merch. It says—you
know, we have shirts that say things like "smash the demon lizard patriarchy,"
"Why are men," there's a theme. [laughs] And you can also rate and review us over
on iTunes if you haven't already. All of those things help us do the things we do,
and many of you already support us, so thank you so much.
Jenny:​ Until next time…
Both:​ Awwooooooooooo!
Kristin:​ Oh my god, Season 5 is almost over.


[Jenny performing "The Weight of the World" off the album Songs from
Season 5 by Buffering the Vampire Slayer]
When I start at the bottom then go back to the top
Walk a mile’s worth of hallway, turn around and stop
There’s a grave in the bedroom, there’s a book up on a shelf
There’s a piece of my family that I can’t help
Don’t wake me up I’m dreaming
Don’t wake me up I’m dreaming
Don’t wake me up I’m dreaming
Don’t wake me up, wake me up
Said goodbye to my mother, said goodbye to all my friends
Said goodbye to my lover, how it always ends
Say goodbye to my sister, if I lost the battle then
No more weight on my shoulders, no more failing them
Don’t wake me up I’m dreaming
Don’t wake me up I’m dreaming
Don’t wake me up I’m dreaming
Don’t wake me up, wake me up
Did they know I would love her when they made her from my rib
I don’t know in my heart if I gave all that I could give
Don’t wake me up I’m dreaming
Don’t wake me up I’m dreaming
Don’t wake me up I’m dreaming
Don’t wake me up, wake me up

