Buffering the Vampire Slayer
0.26: A Message from Jenny & Kristin

[chime]
Jenny: ​Hello, scoobies
Kristin:​ Hello, there! Listen — We are going to take a moment todayto tell you about
some of our intentions here at Buffering the Vampire Slayer, and our hope to work with
our community here to learn the best ways to stand up for Black lives.

First, to our Black listeners: we stand with you and commit to amplifying your voices and
your work. We commit to listening to you when you speak and also to learning more
about anti-Black racism without asking you to do the work for us. We commit to
standing, both literally and figuratively, between you and those who wish to harm you, to
act as a barrier in all the ways we know how and the many ways we commit to learning.

Jenny:​ To our non-Black POC listeners, we commit to fostering a space and dialogue
for those of you who want to work with us together to learn more about anti-Black
racism, and for those of you who want to work with each other, specifically, in that effort.
While our focus today is on anti-Black racism specifically, we commit to expanding our
learning and conversation as a community to become better educated on the many
ways racism and privilege work in our world. We acknowledge the impact of racist
policies on all POC communities.

To our white listeners: We know that we need to do better in supporting and defending
Black lives, and we are sure that many of you know that you need to do better, too. We
feel we have a responsibility here on our platform to share in our knowledge, learning,
and conversation surrounding our white privilege, the Black Lives Matter movement,


social and restorative justice, community work, and so much more, so that you can join
us in fighting against the horrific injustices and centuries of violence against Black
bodies.

Kristin:​ We have often hesitated before speaking, and have often chosen our words
carefully - too carefully - for fear that we would say or do the wrong thing. We cannot be
afraid any longer, and instead we must listen to those who correct us if and when we
make an error in our efforts — in whatever ways, tones, or manners they choose to
correct us in — to learn, to stand up again, and to do better. We want to encourage you
all to do the same, to be brave in speaking out while conscious of not speaking OVER,
to be willing to step back and to listen, to be intentional in amplifying Black voices in
your homes and in your social feeds, and to respect when those around you challenge
or correct those good intentions. As white people the most important thing we can
consistently remind ourselves is: this is not about me. This is not about me. Listen.
Learn. Try again, try harder.

Jenny:​ We will be starting a reading and discussion group with a focus on better
understanding our white privilege and how we can work to dismantle the systemic
violence against Black communities in this country and across the world.

Our first two books will be White Fragility by Robin Diangelo and So You Want to Talk
About Race by Ijeoma Oluo, and we are asking anyone who would like to participate in
our conversations around those readings to go to
bufferingthevampireslayer.com/justkeepfighting for more information and to fill out a
short survey where we will gather information needed to best structure our work
together. That survey will also be gathering information so that those of you with the
means to buy extra books can do so and send them to scoobies who are in need of the
resources to join us!


Kristin:​ We know that self-care is a critical component of doing this work, and we know
that our space here at Buffering the Vampire Slayer is one of comfort, solace, and
shared community for so many of you. We honor that and commit to continuing to foster
this space and our shared love of Buffy and all that the show stands for in its many
forms. We want to challenge you, though, to remember that self-care is only a part of
the larger work — and if you walk with white privilege that means that after you
recharge, you go back out to keep up the fight.

In our show notes today, and every day hereafter, we will be including links to important
Black voices, organizations fighting against racism and white supremacy, places to
donate, books to read, and any other resources we can gather.

We love you, and we are humbled as always to share this space with you, and to just
keep fighting.

[chime]

