Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 7.02: Beneath You
[CHIME]
Kristin: Oh, hello there. What? I’m all by myself! [singing] “All by myself…” See,
Jenny’s not here, so I can sing as much as I want. It’s Kristin, and I’m doing the
intro all by myself, because you’ll be happy to hear that Jenny is hard at work
recording her next album. So at least it’s a worthy cause that’s leaving me all alone
here in the intro space. Just a few quick things before we get into today’s
conversation on Season 7, Episode 2, Beneath You. First of all, you could actually
listen to Season 7, Episode 3, Same Time, Same Place right after you finish this.
Because we did a live taping last Saturday on November 13th and that live taping is
still up.
If you didn’t get tickets and you weren’t there live, you actually can still grab a
ticket and watch our live recording, all the way up until this Saturday, when it
comes down and then it is gone forever. So if you wanna see the live taping rather
than listen to the edited episode when it comes out in two weeks, you can do that.
Just go to momenthouse.com/bufferingthevampireslayer. You can always go to our
website and click on the Calendar and find it there as well. It was so much fun. We
had an amazing after party after the recording and played some music, sang some
songs. It ruled.
We have some new merch up in the store. Specifically, a handful of Tis the Season,
Whatever That Means socks. All that is left after we sold a lot of them at the live
taping, so if you want a pair of those socks, go on over and grab them. They are up
in the US and the UK store, while they last. And speaking of it being Tis the Season,
tis the season for a couple of amazing holiday events that happen every year, run
by our listenership, because you all rule. One of them is the Secret Slayer gift
exchange, and the other is a book exchange called—I don’t know how to pronounce
it, but it’s something like Jolabokaflod. It’s an Icelandic tradition of gifting books
and it literally translates as “yule book flood.”
Both of these are open to any of our Patrons at any level. You have until Sunday,
November 28th if you wanna join the book exchange. And you have until Tuesday,
November 30th if you wanna join the Secret Slayer gift exchange. It’s really fun.
Gifts and books are purchased and sent to Scoobies across the globe. Jenny and I
have done the Secret Slayer gift exchange before. We’re both going to participate in
the book exchange this year as well. All patrons are welcome to join and you will
see a post with all of the information that you need up on Patreon. Cool? Cool!


Since Jenny isn’t here with us, I asked her to write me a script where I could
perform as Jenny and tell you the results of the Sexual Tension Awards from Season
7, Episode 1, Lessons. Okay. Now you have to imagine I’m Jenny, ready?
Welllll! It’s time once again to reveal unto thee the winner of last episode’s Sexual
Tension Awards poll! In fourth place, with a mere 9% of the vote, Willow and Gaia
are going home disappointed. I thought for sure that this slot/nom combo would
fare better, especially because I think it might be the queerest set from this
round-up? In third place, with 18% of the vote—and hey, I understand your
hesitancy here, because who exactly is this girl? It’s Buffy? Question mark, question
mark, question mark? And power. In second place for you, but first place in my
heart and head canon, with a respectable 31% of the vote, it’s Buffy and Principal
Wood. [makes chainsaw noise] Right? I did a good job. [laughs] Now, if you’ll
excuse me, I need to go read some fanfic, but first, it is my honor and privilege to
tell you that the winner of the Sexual Tension Award for Season 7, Episode 1,
Lessons, is Tony Head and staying home, with 42% of the vote. Thankfully, with the
cash prize associated with winning the Sexual Tension Award, Tony will be able to
build an addition onto his house so we can all go and have a slumber party, hurray!
There ends my impression of Jenny Owen Youngs. I didn’t give you too many
Jenny-isms. It is an introduction. And with that, I’m going to usher us along into
the episode so that you don’t have to hear me impersonate Jenny anymore. You
can hear Jenny herself talk about this episode.
[Buffering theme plays]
[pause]
Jenny: Hello. [Kristin laughs] And welcome. To Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a
podcast where we are watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire
Slayer, one by one, spoiler free, in tandem with the Fitzwilliam Darcy to my
Elizabeth Bennet, [Kristin laughs] Angel On Top! They say mean things, but in their
heart, I know they just want to invite me to live forever in their impressive manse
on their sprawling estate. I’m Jenny Owen—wait, did I say Angel On Top?
Kristin: You did. [both laugh] I’m glad you also—
Jenny: I’m—[laughs]
Kristin: Oh, yes, tell them who you are. Go ahead.
Jenny: I’m Jenny Owen Youngs!


Kristin: And I’m Kristin Russo, and I’m really thankful for your explanation,
because I did not understand the reference. I’m probably one of four people who
didn’t. But I’m right here with you, so I’m glad to know what—[clears throat] what
the reference was. Didn’t know if you were being nice, mean, didn’t know if we
were nemesis, didn’t—I didn’t know what was going on. [Jenny laughs] Anyway,
this week, we are here. It’s the second episode of the seventh season. It is called
Beneath You. In case you missed it, it’s Beneath You, as Buffy will say a few times.
It is beneath you. [laughs]
Jenny: Hmm. Hmm, but where and from—what will it be doing from that vantage
point?
Kristin: [simultaneously] It is beneath—I think it’s beneath. Stay tuned at the end
of this podcast every other week for an original song written by Jenny Owen
Youngs, recapping the Buffy episode that we are discussing.
Jenny: Beneath You was written by Nick Marck and directed by Doug Petrie. It
originally aired on October 1st, 2002, just 53 days before my 21st birthday. Swarms
of crows starting to accumulate in the various far-flung corners of the darkening
sky!
Kristin: Did you—
Jenny: Harbingers of what was to come.
Kristin: O-kay. Did you—question. Did you use the calculator that our listener Meg
sent in to get that exact calculation? [Jenny laughs] Or did you just have it on
hand?
Jenny: I just had it on hand, ‘cause it’s so close. [Kristin laughs] But I’m gonna be
using Meg’s calculator most of the time.
Kristin: We asked—last episode—
Jenny: Thank you, Meg.
Kristin: Thank you, Meg. We asked last episode for a birthday calculator for Jenny,
and listener Meg, not disappointing anyone ever, sent us a calculator. [Jenny sighs]
So now we have that.
Jenny: God bless.


Kristin: [laughs] This is the one where, according to IMDB, a giant worm-like
creature begins stalking a young woman. As the gang begins to investigate, they
realize its appearance in Sunnydale may be linked to, dot-dot-dot, Anya. Anyanka,
really.
Jenny: Kristin, I’m pretty sure this is the one where from beneath you, it devours.
Kristin: [laughing] I’m pretty sure you’re right. This is the one, also, where we’re
in Germany with some very intense techno music at the top. And the first thing I
thought—Jenny, I don’t know if you had the same thought. We’re both children of
the 90s. But I was like, oh, this is definitely Run Lola Run. This is—like—
Jenny: Yeah, this is a very clear—
Kristin: Very.
Jenny: Homage. [laughs]
Kristin: Yeah. So if you are not familiar, Run Lola Run is a 1998 German film. And it
was massively popular in the late 90s and early aughts. And so—
Jenny: Huge indie smash starring Franka Potente, whose name I may be
mispronouncing.
Kristin: Nice.
Jenny: German and German-adjacent listeners, please feel free to—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Let us know how poorly I have said her name. She has dyed bright pink
hair and spends an entire film—pretty much—
Kristin: Pretty much. [laughs]
Jenny: Running! I had forgotten what the plot of the film was. I just remembered
her hair, the running, and a soundtrack comprised largely of electronic music. And I
read—
Kristin: Right. That’s also what I remember, just for the record, so.


Jenny: Right! [both laugh] But I read the Wikipedia summary to refresh my
memory and was pleasantly surprised. I don’t wanna say anything about it, ‘cause I
don’t wanna ruin it for anybody who might be inspired to go watch it now. But I
would say, go check it out.
Kristin: Hell yeah.
Jenny: It’s cool. Now, one main difference between the titular Lola [Kristin laughs]
and the individual we are introduced to in this cold open is that this new person is
being chased by more of these, uhh, hooded figures?
Kristin: Ghostface. Ghostface!
Jenny: Okay, okay. And they do a little, unfortunately, grab and stab.
Kristin: This time, we kind of see—I mean, technically we don’t actually see it. But
they give us a shot of her dying, essentially, more than we saw in the last episode.
Last episode, I was like, but did they get her? Because who could know?
Jenny: They got her, and in her last moments, she looks directly into the lens
belonging to the DP of Buffy’s dream [Kristin laughs] and says, “From beneath you,
it devours.”
Kristin: Oh. Well, you better write that down because we may not hear it again,
and it seems like an important note to be aware of.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, you definitely don’t wanna forget that and you won’t be
reminded of it over the next 40 minutes.
Kristin: Buffy is screaming. It is definitely not Buffy screaming. This is, like, some
canned scream. Like, this is—I mean. It’s not Buffy.
Jenny: That’s not my Sarah Michelle Gellar.
Kristin: No. Dawn is waking her up because this is a dream that she’s had.
Obviously—I mean, maybe not obviously, but I think it’s kinda clear that these are
vision dreams. These are not just in her subconscious. Or maybe they’re in her
sub—?
Jenny: When was the last time Buffy had a vision dream?


Kristin: Well, I—[laughing] the one I remember most is the one with Faith and the
cat. But it kind of obliterates all other vision dreams for me, so that might not be
accurate.
Jenny: Yes, the one that truly matters.
Kristin: [laughs] Didn’t they have—they had a vision dream at the—in Restless,
right?
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: Anyway. [Jenny laughs] Dawn wakes up a screaming Buffy. And…[laughs]
Dawn’s like, “It was just a dream, right?” And Buffy goes, “From beneath you, it
devours.” [both laughing] I find it so hilarious because it just seems like a really
intense thing to say to your younger sister when she says, “It was just a dream,
right?”
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah.
Kristin: “From beneath you, it devours!” Okay.
Jenny: Yeah, and then Buffy says, “There’s more like her, Dawn, out there
somewhere.” She moodily moves to stare out the window.
Kristin: [laughs] [singing] “Somewhere, out there…”
Jenny: Dot-dot-dot. “And they’re gonna die!”
Kristin: [simultaneously] [singing] “In the pale moonlight!”
Jenny: Kristin!
Kristin: [singing] “Girls are gonna die—”
Jenny: Okay. Nice. [both laugh] Very good.
Kristin: Okay.
Jenny: Well! Elsewhere, somewhere else in Sunnydale, the world’s largest gopher
[Kristin laughs] is tearing up lawns and asphalt, with absolutely no regard for
anyone’s landscaping. The time, energy, effort, money that they’ve put into
manicuring their lawns.


Kristin: Wow, you just made me realize—
Jenny: [makes drum roll sound]
Kristin: That the effects of this are so similar to the effects in Caddyshack. A little
gopher.
Jenny: Oh!
Kristin: Imagine that was the reveal, the whole time. That this—that Ronnie was
not a worm. He was actually just a gopher.
Jenny: But just a great big gopher.
Kristin: Great big gopher. It’s a—my note, Jenny, as you might imagine, is “it’s a
worm, it’s a worm, it’s a great big worm.”
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: Um…[Jenny laughs] yeah, so. I mean, just a little note on giant worms.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: Jenny, you’ve seen the most recent film that has hit the cinematic universe
containing giant worms. I haven’t seen it yet, so don’t spoil me on it, but it is called
Dune.
Jenny: Dune!
Kristin: I just watched another film very recently, on the 50th birthday of Winona
Ryder, as a matter of fact, called Beetlejuice. Which features—
Jenny: Sure, huge worms.
Kristin: Incredible, incredible sand worms. And then of course, the classic that I
also just watched with Joanna Robinson, Tremors.
Jenny: Oh yeah.


Kristin: And Jenny, I know you love cryptids, so I wanted to just tell you in case
you weren’t aware. There are a couple of cryptid worms, but the most famous
one—
Jenny: Ooh.
Kristin: Is the Mongolian death worm.
Jenny: Ooh!
Kristin: Yeah, yeah. The word for it—which I will, I’m sure, mispronounce—in
Mongolian is olgoi-khorkhoi. And it is a giant worm that can take to land and sea
and will surprise attack cows. Just jump right out of the water, swallow a whole
cow, then go right back under—
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: From whence it came, so—
Jenny: No muss, no fuss.
Kristin: There’s a lot of—and you know, I’m imagining that if you listen to this
podcast, you know what a cryptid is. But Jenny, do you wanna tell them what a
cryptid is, just in case? What if they don’t know?
Jenny: Welllll, I’m so glad you asked, Kristin. A cryptid is an animal such as
Sasquatch or the Loch Ness Monster that has been claimed to exist but never
proven to exist.
Kristin: Mmhmm. Well, I don’t need proof, personally. So.
Jenny: Oh.
Kristin: And I think, like, when I—I only did a very brief reading on the Mongolian
death worm. But it was written down in the 1920s. But the reason that, you
know—the reason that cryptids are reported—the reason that these stories are
written down is usually because a lot of people have fucking stories about them. So
there were a lot of stories—
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.


Kristin: About this Mongolian death worm. And that’s your worm segment of this
podcast.
Jenny: [laughs] Eugh.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: “Worm segment.” [Kristin laughs] Womp-womp-womp!
Kristin: Well, it can go on living, right? Is that true or false that if you cut an
earthworm in half, it’ll just keep living as two halves of itself. Is that false?
Jenny: Legend has it—
Kristin: [simultaneously] [laughing] Is that an urban legend?
Jenny: That it will grow two new little ends. But who knows?
Kristin: [laughs] Well, you know what? We probably have some worm experts, so
go on. Buffering the Vampire Slayer—
Jenny: [simultaneously] I hear the clickety-clacking of their keyboards now, in the
distance.
Kristin: [simultaneously] At gmail.com. Kristin, stop delivering irresponsible
information to your listenership. Now everyone’s cutting worms in half. [laughs]
Jenny: No. Well, yeah. First and foremost, don’t cut worms in half.
Kristin: Don’t do that. I mean, it sounds painful, horrible. Don’t do that. But I am
curious to know if they would go on living. [laughs] Okay.
Jenny: Okay. According to a very brief Googling—stop your emails! [Kristin laughs]
If an earthworm is split in two, it will not become two new worms. The head of the
worm may survive and regenerate its tail [Kristin groans] if the animal is cut behind
the—
Kristin: Okay!
Jenny: Clitellum.
Kristin: I’ve decided. I don’t wanna—


Jenny: Clitellum.
Kristin: Talk about worms anymore.
Jenny: Okay. Okay, so—
Kristin: I’m having an adverse response.
Jenny: No emails, no cutting worms in half. On we go to the basement, where
there’s a rat—
Kristin: [simultaneously] To rats! From worms to rats, the Buffering the Vampire
Slayer story.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Squeaking away. Squeak, squeak, squeak. Squeak,
squeak.
Kristin: [laughs] So, yeah. We’re in the basement. Spike is doing what we thought
Spike might be doing, right? He’s eating some rats.
Jenny: Yeah. Talking and stalking, not an effective pair of gerunds to be getting up
to. [Kristin laughs] Pick one, Spike! Or go hungry.
Kristin: Yeah, he’s talking to someone. I mean, we saw him at the end of the last
episode with a shapeshifter of sorts. So we are not—we don’t know, in this scene, if
that shapeshifter is somewhere in the room that we just can’t see. If he’s talking to
nobody and is just—
Jenny: Maybe it’s shifted into a rat.
Kristin: That’s true. Maybe it is the rat. And he’s saying, “Now is not the time.” His
delivery of these lines and of a lot of his lines are very Drusilla reminiscent. Do you
agree?
Jenny: Mmm. Yeah, wow. I didn’t even think of that, but yes.
Kristin: Which, like, I would imagine just comes from the fact that James Marsters,
as an actor, spent so much time—you know what I mean? Like, that he’s picked up
some of Juliet Landau’s mannerisms in this kind of headspace.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm. Oh, yeah.


Kristin: But I don’t know. And then everything starts fucking shaking!
Jenny: Everything’s shaking. Spike is screaming. And we’re whisked to the
Xander-mobile.
Kristin: Yeah, they’re really using that car this season.
Jenny: I mean, it was in the budget. Now they gotta get their money’s worth.
Dawn is simultaneously pumped that Buffy will be at school. [Kristin laughs] But
also adamant that Buffy is not to speak to or look at her [Kristin laughs] on school
grounds, ever.
Kristin: I love this. I love that she gets both, you know? ‘Cause usually you only
see the side of the response that’s like, “Do not even talk to me.” But I love that
she’s like, in my heart, I am so excited. But—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: On paper? You don’t know me, okay? [laughs]
Jenny: Stay away.
Kristin: Xander’s feeling very nostalgic in this car ride. He’s like—
Jenny: Oh yeah.
Kristin: “They’re so lucky, these students, that they get a Slayer and a friend.
[Jenny laughs] I hope they appreciate it like I did.” It’s nice. It’s just—it seems so
incredibly emotional for Episode 2, you know?
Jenny: Yeah. I found this whole episode overall to be…kind of all over the place.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Peaks, valleys, disjointedness.
Kristin: You know, I wonder—
Jenny: But it also contains so much important stuff.


Kristin: It does. I mean, the last scene of this fucking episode is pretty massive.
And there’s a lot of Spike and Buffy stuff throughout that I think is really important.
But I was wondering about it too, because you know, we talked last episode about
the fact that, like, Season 7, Episode 1, Sunnydale High School’s back. They’re
doing a lot of callbacks, they’re doing things that, like, we haven’t seen in a while.
And this really felt like a very monster of the week episode, in a way that, like, we
don’t see as much now, this deep into the series. Which—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: You know, in its own way, is a callback to the first season.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And so maybe that’s why it feels so disjointed to us as well, is just, like,
we’re used to having plot and plot alone, like, moving the thing, as opposed to, like,
there’s the plot and then there’s the worm. You know? [both laugh] Which is what
this is.
Jenny: Yeah. Xander laments that though he’d like to be dating, something’s not
clicking.
Kristin: Buffy has a mature response to this and is sort of just like, “Listen. What
happened with you and Anya is a really big deal, and it’s not something you’re just
gonna, like, bounce back from.” And I like that, because it takes into account that
even though, like, Xander was the person who caused the harm—I mean, to put it
simply—that it was a traumatic event for both parties. And that neither one of them
is going to be able to emotionally heal quickly and start dating again in any kind of
way that’s, like—you know? They need healing. They need time.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: I like that.
Jenny: Oh yeah.
Kristin: And this is just a—you know, everybody’s talking about dating demons.
Buffy calls out [laughs] Dawn’s Halloween smooch-athon. Love that word.
Jenny: Hell yes.


Kristin: With a vampire. And it’s a little more fun towards the end than it was in
the beginning, when we were thinking about Xander and his trauma from leaving
Anya at the altar.
Jenny: And we also hear tell that Anya is trollin’ for scorned women at the Bronze.
Kristin: Mm. Yeah, and the last time we saw her, we had Hallie telling her that,
like, she was not doing a good job as a vengeance demon, so.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: Well, guess she’s doing a good job now. So…
Jenny: Guess so!
Kristin: Principal Wood, hurray! Principal Wood.
Jenny: Ah. I love to see him.
Kristin: Everyone was a little upset with us, last episode, for not nominating all of
us and Principal Wood. And, like—
Jenny: Ooh!
Kristin: Fair. It’s super fair.
Jenny: Huge mistake, but also, secretly? Perhaps I failed to do so in order to—
Kristin: Save him all for yourself?
Jenny: [simultaneously] Preserve him for myself. [both laugh] That’s right. We get
a little Flutie reference in here. We get a little Buffy’s pumped to give detention.
She doesn’t know what her job is, she doesn’t know why she has it.
Kristin: All valid questions, in my opinion.
Jenny: Principal Wood makes one small misstep when he makes a joke about
beating students, which I…
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Could do without.


Kristin: Well. I mean, yes, of course, so could I. But like, the way he—the way that
he says it, it’s obviously—he’s just talking about, like, they respond well to
discipline and not friendship. You know, he’s just—
Jenny: Right. Right, right, right.
Kristin: He’s just being, like, dramatic about it. It—I don’t—I mean, at least, that’s
the vibe I got. And the way—but the way he delivers this is by saying, “The boot,
the bat and the bastionado.” And he’s like, “Nobody ever gets that joke because
nobody ever knows what the last thing is.” And Buffy’s like, [gasps] “They used it in
Turkish prisons, it’s a rod. It actually can be really useful as a blah-blah-blah-blah.”
Like, gives him the full book report on what this instrument is. To which I think
we’re meant to ask, like, why does Principal Wood know what this is? And to which
Principal Wood is perhaps asking, why does this new hire Buffy Summers know
what this thing is? She got my joke, but hmm?
Jenny: Mmhmm. Also, we learn that Wood is a vegetarian.
Kristin: Yes. I have that in all caps. That seemed like the most important thing of
this scene. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah. So with no troubled teens to listen to at the immediate moment,
Buffy goes sniffing around the school and is drawn back to the basement.
Kristin: No students allowed.
Jenny: No students allowed. She’s looking for Spike. She’s not finding him, but
then she hears a door close creepily, and we change scenes.
Kristin: Oh, let us go to England, shall we?
Jenny: Back at Tony’s house.
Kristin: Taxi’s here. Honk-honk. This is a nice—
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: I really liked this scene. You know—
Jenny: Oh yeah, this is great.


Kristin: Right? Willow is—I like this scene for two reasons. One ‘cause I like what
happens here, and two, I think there’s some overlap with what happens in the rest
of the episode. But what’s happening right here is just, like, Willow is nervous. She
says, like—
Jenny: Aww.
Kristin: “I’m not—I don’t feel done. I don’t feel ready, and you’re telling me to,
like, listen to myself and myself says I’m not ready. What if I give up control and I
go all veiny and homicidal? What if…” And then, sweet dad Giles says, “What if they
won’t take you back?” And she says, “Uh-huh.” Willow!
Jenny: [groans] And Giles tells her that he cannot guarantee that she’ll be wanted,
but she will be needed. “Trust yourself and the others might follow.” Some good dad
shit!
Kristin: Yeah, and then just in case you didn’t get enough good dad, he opens his
umbrella—
Jenny: Aww.
Kristin: To hold over her to walk her to the taxi. Come on!
Jenny: Yeah, it’s nice.
Kristin: And the thing that—so I put an asterisk next to “you may not be wanted
but you will be needed.” Because that line feels important, even just in this
exchange. But then later, with Spike, it felt like very much sort of his motivation.
Part of his motivation was, like—you know, like, he knew that he wasn’t necessarily
going to be wanted but he felt like he was needed for this fight. He knows that
there’s something, like, rumbling under the ground.
Jenny: Mmm. Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: Probably more to say about that, but I just thought, like, huh.
Jenny: Yeah. Well. Somewhere. [Kristin sighs] On the as-yet-uncorrupted sidewalks
of Sunnydale, a brunette woman is walking a small dog that I think is a yorkie.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: However, a hole opens in the sidewalk and the dog is eaten, and I hate it.


Kristin: Does the dog die dot com. Yes. Yes, it does. Or—
Jenny: It does. And—
Kristin: Maybe it doesn’t. I mean, we don’t know that it’s dead. Maybe Ronnie just
pulled it down there for some company and there was a little worm walking a little
yorkie down underneath the ground.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: You don’t know. We don’t know. A question I have about the entire arc of
this episode is when Ronnie is changed from a worm to a person, if he did eat
Rocky, is he still—does he still have Rock—does he—you know what I mean? Does
his human body have Rock—okay.
Jenny: I don’t…
Kristin: Well, it’s a great leash pull. That’s my note for this scene. Great leash pull.
Great leash pull work in this—[laughs]
Jenny: Mm. Mmhmm.
Kristin: Where Rocky is dragged underground and as-yet-named brunette
character is sort of dragged along the sidewalk by the dog’s leash until she reaches
the hole in the ground.
Jenny: Eek!
Kristin: She then goes back to the Summers’ living room. This is very reminiscent
to me—
Jenny: Well. She runs away from the hole and runs directly into Xander. Who I feel
like is too close to have not seen—
Kristin: Seen the worm?
Jenny: [simultaneously] Anything that just happened, but okay.
Kristin: Right. And he’s like, let me take you to the living room of the Summers’
home. Which to me—


Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Reminds me a lot of—this scene is very, like, Angel Investigations. You
know? [laughs] Like, we don’t see this a lot—
Jenny: Oh yeah.
Kristin: Like, a civilian sitting down and being like, “And then I saw a worm. Do
you think I’m crazy?”
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: No, ma’am, we understand. We live in Sunnydale too. It’s, like, very
detective-y. So this girl’s name is Nancy. And Xander is—
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Taking it upon himself to attempt flirting with her.
Jenny: [unhappily] Uh-huh. Uh, she’s convinced nobody will believe what she saw.
But they’re like, “Oh, Nancy. We’ve seen things.” And Nancy starts describing the
rumbling and Buffy says…[Kristin laughs] “From beneath you, it devours!” At this
point in my notes, I’m just writing FBYID.
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah. Because she never says, like—she never sets it up. This is,
like, the second time that she has not set it up. She’s not like, “Oh, I had this
dream and in the dream, they said, from beneath—” She doesn’t say anything. She
just says, to Nancy, who she’s only just met, [both laughing] “From beneath you, it
devours!” Buffy!
Jenny: Nancy, catch up.
Kristin: [laughing] Chill. God, you’re scaring everybody. [Jenny laughs] So then,
straight from the salon.
Jenny: Oh yeah.
Kristin: Here is a newly be-peroxided—a Jenny-ism. Spike.
Jenny: Um. Did he get to the salon for a cut and a root touch-up? I think so. I
don’t think he did this himself, but also, he seems…blonder than he’s ever seemed.


Kristin: I agree. I mean, I don’t—if it was just really, really blonde, I would think
maybe he did it himself. But since he has such a new cut, I don’t—I don’t think that
he would be able to do that. He can’t even see himself in the mirror.
Jenny: Oh, true.
Kristin: So yeah, I think he went to the demon salon and they were like, man, you
need some help. And they just went hard with the peroxide, so. [laughs] He’s also
wearing—
Jenny: [simultaneously] He’s also wearing—
Kristin: A bright blue shirt?
Jenny: And it is tight.
Kristin: Very.
Jenny: Form fitting.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Unsurprisingly, Xander is none too happy to see Spike—
Kristin: Yeah, he’s—
Jenny: Darkening this particular threshold.
Kristin: He’s not, and Dawn is also leaning into the way she was upset at the end
of the season last season, where it’s like—[laughs] “You didn’t tell me this? Again?”
Like, she’s always so upset about finding things out after the fact. So for Dawn, it’s
like she’s upset, but she’s doubly upset because she’s asked Buffy to communicate
more clearly in the past. And Buffy is still doing the same shit and keeping stuff
close to the chest.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Dawn says, “You only let us in whenever you want.”
Jenny: Yep, yep. Mm, mm, yeah. Now, what I really like about this scene is that
[laughs] after Dawn’s like, “Why—you didn’t tell me that you saw him in the
basement?!” [laughing] Buffy’s like, “Things were insane in the basement.” And


Nancy is like, “Oookay.” [Kristin laughs] And Buffy’s like, “I saved your life.” And
Nancy’s like, “Oookay, I guess?”
Kristin: Yeah. Nancy’s—I mean, that’s like, [Jenny laughs] one of the best ways
that Nancy is used in the whole episode, is the, like—the role of the outside
observer, just coming in and being like, “I knew Sunnydale was, like, a little off, but
what the hell are you people doing?” [laughs]
Jenny: Mmhmm. Buffy mercifully decides to have the rest of this conversation
privately and pulls Spike into the foyer.
Kristin: Yes. Buffy says, “Don’t say you’re sorry.” And Spike says, “I didn’t come to
atone. I came to help.” That’s where I wrote down, like, huh, you may not be
wanted but you will be needed. Like, where these things are kind of, like,
overlapping.
Jenny: Uh-huh, uh-huh.
Kristin: And I’m just gonna, like, put a little pin in this moment and talk about this
a few more times as we go through the episode. But when we aired Seeing Red, it
was a four-part episode. And one of the episodes that went up on Patreon was a
conversation between myself and Alba and Jess Clark, who you’ve heard in other
episodes, and may have already heard in the Patreon feed. We’re re-airing that
episode next week, in between episodes two and three of Season 7 of Buffy,
because I think that the conversation is very, very relevant here as well. Because
Spike has left and has gotten a soul and has come back. And there are scenes like
this one that are very interesting, and I think, like, there’s just a lot of richness in
the way in which Buffy and Spike are interacting, the way in which it’s written on
the page, and all of that stuff, where we can revisit some of that conversation and
dig a little deeper into a couple of these moments as well. But this is interesting. I
think, like, there’s a lot happening here. And one thing that I wanna note is that
Spike is very clearly, at this point in this scene, allowing Buffy to set the
boundaries, very much so.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Which is something that both of them very clearly
struggled with last season.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah, he’s very much like, I’m just here to help. I—you know, I can
tell that something’s coming. If I’m wrong, I will happily leave.


Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: And, you know, we can forget about this.
Kristin: Like, even if you don’t want my help, even if you know something’s coming
and you’re like, stay away from me. Like, put up any magical wards that you want
to, need to, whatever. Like, this is why I’m here and this is what’s up.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Obviously, as we know, this kind of unspools later in the episode. [laughs]
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Because—and I will say, like, because trauma is fucking tricky. And like,
that is not condoning any of the things that will happen later or any of the ways in
which they relate to each other. But like, trauma is tricky. And I think, like, there
are moments when you are like, we’ll just joke about it or we won’t look right at it,
or we’ll whatever. And then something happens, and it just all comes crashing down
again. And so, again, we’ll get more into it in this, like, little interstitial episode next
week. But I do think that some of this is handled very realistically.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah. And Buffy says, “Everything about you is wrong, Spike. Dot,
dot, dot. [Kristin laughs] But something is coming.” So she decides that she and
Spike are gonna patrol while Xander takes Nancy home.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Xander…simply hates this.
Kristin: Nancy’s like, “Should we call the police?” And Xander’s like—[Jenny laughs]
“First of all, no. And second of all, no.” [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah. And then Nancy’s like, “Wow, is your girlfriend always so
commanding?”
Kristin: Yeah. Not smooth, Nancy.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Or whatever she says and Xander’s like—[babbles]
“girlfri—what? No, I simply must—bleh, bleh—does not compute! Bleh!”


Kristin: [laughs] Xander is, like—basically, like, calling back to how Xander was last
season. Like, “Buffy, how can you allow this? Like, Spike tried to rape you.” And
Buffy says, “And he failed and, like, I’m making this decision. I’m taking care of
myself and I need you to take care of what I’ve asked you to take care of.” Dawn,
so agreeable. Like, this is the first time I’ve ever seen Dawn be like, “I’ll stay home,
I know.” [both laugh] She’s like, okay.
Jenny: Ever! “I’m command central.”
Kristin: Yeah. She gives herself a little title to make herself feel better—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And is very aware of the fact that she’s done that. And then. Add it to the
pile of “Kristin is a Dawn fan.” [laughs] Add it to the pile. Before Spike leaves, Dawn
says…
[Clip from episode plays]
Dawn: You sleep, right? You, vampires. You sleep.
Spike: Yeah. What’s your point?
Dawn: Well, I can’t take you in a fight or anything. Even with a chip in your
head. But you do sleep. If you hurt my sister at all, touch her, you’re gonna
wake up on fire.
Jenny: [laughing] Ooh-hoo-hoo!
Kristin: Hell. Fucking. Yes.
Jenny: [makes chainsaw noise]
Kristin: I’m just gonna put this on the table for consideration as we move through
Season 7. I, Kristin Russo, do believe that Dawn Summers deserves a jingle,
because she rules.
Jenny: Ohh. Alright.
Kristin: You know? You know? This is great. It’s just great. She’s protecting her
sister, she’s looking out for her sister. She’s drawing her own fucking boundaries,
without even involving Buffy. She’s like, Buffy is gonna do what Buffy is gonna do.


But I am Dawn Summers and I feel protective over my sister [Jenny laughs] and
think that this is incorrect and wrong and not okay and I’m gonna fucking let Spike
know. Yes, Dawn! Okay. So. To the hole in the street left by the giant worm.
Jenny: [laughs] Spike mentions that he’s not keen on sticking his head in this hole,
and Buffy says, “Oh, but if something bites it off, that’d be a clue.”
Kristin: Yeah, and this is the scene that I personally respond very well to, because
of this. It, like, starts with—you just wanna, like—like, Buffy is really just trying to
be like, everything is fine. Like, fuck this guy and I’m gonna make jokes ‘cause
that’s what I do. I mean, this is Buffy. This is what she does in the face of many
different kinds of trauma, she makes a joke.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And then it’s only moments later in the scene when he’s like, “Can you
hold this torch?” And it’s when Buffy makes contact with Spike that then she has
this flashback. As a television device, I don’t think this is cool at all. Because I don’t
think that, like, any viewer needs to be re-traumatized, having seen this scene the
first time, in a way that is entire—you do—you cannot prepare for it. Because you
don’t know, as the viewer, that it’s going to happen until it’s, like, happening. So I
don’t think it’s super responsible, television wise. But I do think it’s very effective in
terms of, like, trying to not look at trauma and then, like, these moments when you
don’t necessarily feel at all like it’s going to come up that it comes up.
Jenny: But how do you feel about it being in every Previously On for the last—
Kristin: Right, same. Fucked up, it’s fucked up. We don’t, like—[Jenny groans] it’s
fucked up. Yeah. I mean, honestly, it’s probably more fucked up that it’s in all the
fucking Previously Ons than it is that it’s here, but still. It’s just, like, not a thing
that I think anybody really wants to flash back to. Least of all Buffy. And—but
before we get there. Sorry, I just have some—as you can tell—some feelings about
the way that this, like, narrative is shaped with the two of them. But before we get
there, Buffy is like, “So what happened to you?” And Spike is really just not—at this
point, he is just not telling her. He’s just like, “There were some demons. They were
getting to my head, and you know, why didn’t you tell them that I was back?” And
Buffy’s like, “I just hoped that you were a mirage.” Et cetera, et cetera.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: So then we get this flashlight flashback scene. And right after this moment
happens, Buffy looks at him and is like, “I need you to know that this is work. Like,


we are not—there is nothing happening here.” And Spike says, “I can’t blame you
for being skittish,” which is a horrible—
Jenny: [simultaneously] Spike!
Kristin: Word choice. And thankfully, it seems everyone else is aware that this is a
horrible word choice to use in this context, including Buffy, who’s like, “Are you
fucking kidding me? Like, that’s the word you’re gonna use? You tried to rape me.”
And she says that clearly, and this is the first time that she is saying that out loud
to Spike.
Jenny: Mm. Mmhmm.
Kristin: And I think that that is very powerful and is very important. And she says,
“I don’t have words.” And he says, “Neither do I.” He says, “I can’t say I’m sorry, I
can’t say forgive me.”
Jenny: It’s like…he could. But like—
Kristin: I think he’s correct on the forgiveness.
Jenny: Yeah. It’s just so much. When you consider the profound immensity—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Of what he has done.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: When he considers it—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: I could understand how ridiculous—
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: It would seem—it could seem in his mind to apologize or ask to be forgiven.
I think, like, even giving an apology can seem—when you have, like, fucked up on
such a massive scale. Even offering an apology can feel like asking something of
the person you are apologizing to.


Kristin: Yeah, yeah.
Jenny: If that makes sense.
Kristin: No, it does. And I think, like, that’s what he’s meaning by saying he can’t
say he’s sorry. He’s connecting that to the forgiveness. He’s like, sor—the word
“sorry” to me implies that you would then have to also respond in some way. And
that’s not something that I would want to ask of you. And I mean, I think, like,
that—he doesn’t say the word “accountability.” But essentially, that’s like, what I
think they’re working around here, is like, this very bad thing happened. And I
know that I can’t ask you to forgive me, and I wouldn’t even want to ask you to
forgive me. All that I can say is that I have changed. And she says, I believe you. I
just don’t know how. Like, I sense that something is different. I don’t know what it
is, and I don’t know what you’ve changed into, right? And he’s not telling her.
They’re not having that conversation here. But this is—
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Also, this also just feels very grounded to me in, like, a very real space of:
they have an intimate, long-term relationship. Massive harm has occurred. They are
engaging with each other again, and what the fuck does that look like? And like, I’m
not asking—I mean, I’m asking that, but I think that they are asking themselves
that. Buffy is like, what the fuck is this supposed to look like? And Spike is like,
what the fuck is this supposed to look like? [both laugh]
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: You know? And they’re navigating that, and it’s messy. And I—for one,
personally—am here for it.
Jenny: It is interesting to see this being played out with the level of, like,
complexity and nuance—
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And sort of, like, also just, like, nobody knowing exactly what the solution is
or what the next steps are.
Kristin: Mmhmm. Yeah.
Jenny: Which is very—feels very realistic.


Kristin: Yeah, yeah. I mean, the only person really painting in broad brushstrokes
is Xander. You know? Like, he’s like—you know, very much, like, rape bad, rapist
bad, go away, no conversation ever again, the end. You know?
Jenny: Dawn’s just painting a gigantic fire. [both laugh]
Kristin: Fair. Like I said already.
Jenny: [makes whooshing sound]
Kristin: Yes, Dawn. Here for it. Alright, let’s go to—ooh! A new apartment building.
I love to see some of the real estate in Sunnydale, you know? Right before it’s
destroyed—
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: Like every other real estate in Sunnydale.
Jenny: Here’s a hallway. Xander’s game. What do you—[Kristin laugh] how do you
rank Xander’s game? [both laugh] Also, how do you rank Nancy’s game? Each on a
scale of one to ten.
Kristin: Um, well, Xander does not do very good. He’s probably at, like, a four.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: But I think Nancy actually turns it around in this scene when she’s like,
“I’m hitting on you.” [Jenny laughs] That’s, like, my favorite move of all, you know?
Just—enough. Enough of this bullshit. I’m gonna be direct with you, I’m hitting on
you right now. And it—
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: It disarms Xander and then they’re able to have a two-second spark,
before the worm fucking burrows right through the goddamn apartment building.
Or gopher.
Jenny: Yep.
Kristin: I guess we don’t—we don’t necessarily know it’s a worm yet. Could be a
gopher.


Jenny: Could be—could still be a gopher, mmm.
Kristin: A dig on Sunnydale’s food quality, as well. [Jenny laughs] You know, I
mean, all we really know, I guess, is Doublemeat. And there was, like, one fancy
bar that, like, Warren went to—that—
Jenny: Oh, right, right.
Kristin: I don’t know, do they serve food? Perhaps some appetizers, some nuts.
[laughs]
Jenny: The Bronze serves bloomin’ onions.
Kristin: That’s true. That’s true. Yeah, so who knows? But Xander and Nancy both
agree that Sunnydale does not have great food options, so. [laughs]
Jenny: Then comes the rumble. And they run up to the landing, and this worm
monster has burrowed directly from 1958. [Kristin laughs] From a B movie.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: It simply looks like something that was shot decades and decades ago, and
was cut in—
Kristin: [laughs] It does.
Jenny: To this early 2000s television show. It looks…wacky. I love it. I’m having a
blast. But it’s interesting.
[NEW SEGMENT]
Jenny: Oh, hello.
Kristin: Hello there. Here we are. And we have something to tell you about, and it’s
about us. [Jenny laughs] It’s about us and things that we’re doing. Hey, Jenny and I
are gonna be in the same room, [Jenny gasps] at the same time [Jenny gasps], on
November 13th, 2021. And we thought—
Jenny: Indeed.


Kristin: Wouldn’t it be lovely to do a live taping of the episode, [Jenny gasps twice]
Same Time, Same Place? [Jenny gasps] Together, in the same place at the same
time.
Jenny: Wow!
Kristin: Mmhmm. So—
Jenny: It sounds almost too good to be true, but it’s not. It’s true!
Kristin: It’s true. It’s true. It’s a virtual taping, which means no matter where you
are, if you have the internet, you can join us.
Jenny: You can snag tickets and find out more at
momenthouse.com/bufferingthevampireslayer. And for those of you who are
otherwise obligated and cannot be in the same place at the same time with us, the
live taping will be available to ticket holders for seven days, via Video On Demand.
Kristin: Not only that, but after the live taping, you can join us if you so please at
our after party. That’s right. [Jenny gasps] We’re cool. We have an after party. I
specifically plan—
Jenny: [laughs] We’re gonna do the main taping. Then we’re gonna turn all the
lights off at Kristin’s, fire up the lava lamp—
Kristin: Yep!
Jenny: Turn on the black light for the black light posters—
Kristin: Hell yeah.
Jenny: Head on over to momenthouse.com/bufferingthevampireslayer. And come
party with us.
Kristin: And as always, you can learn about any of our events at any time by going
to bufferingthevampireslayer.com and just click on our Calendar.
[EPISODE RESUMES]
Kristin: So they’re in the stairwell. And all of a sudden, we learn that Nancy has an
ex named Ronnie. And Xander, because he has also been here for seven seasons,


[Jenny snorts] is like, “Alright, okay, hold on. Who’s this fucking Ronnie guy? [Jenny
laughs] And would he ever do any spells? Because I know this drill.” [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And then—oh! Nancy says—Nancy frigging says!—“You
know that feeling when your ex is ruining every part of your life and it just doesn’t
stop?” And Xander has the audacity to say yes.
Kristin: Yeah, fuck you, Xander. [laughs]
Jenny: Xa—how the—how fucking dare you, sir?
Kristin: As Anya says—
Jenny: On what grounds?
Kristin: Later in the episode…
[Clip from episode plays]
Anya: Bite me, Harris.
Kristin: Uh, yeah. [Jenny sighs] But what we glean—
Jenny: This is—I just can’t even begin to try to understand where Xander thinks
he’s coming from when he says this. [both laugh] It simply defies logic.
Kristin: Well, actually, why don’t we just go ahead and play the fucking Patriarchy
jingle right here? Because usually that is the thing that helps us understand the
defying of logic.
Jenny: Mmm.
[THE PATRIARCHY jingle plays]
The patriarchy! [thunder clap, evil laughter]
Kristin: Alright, so we learn that no, in fact, it may not have been Ronnie who has
manifested a giant worm to attack Nancy. It actually is that Ronnie was an abusive
asshole, and Nancy really wished…[Jenny sighs] that something horrible would
happen to him. And Xander’s like—
Jenny: No!


Kristin: Did you say wish?!
Jenny: [laughs] Record scratch.
Kristin: [laughs] So obviously—now the gang gets all together. We’ve got Spike,
Buffy—
Jenny: [simultaneously] Yeah. We’re off to the B-B-B-Bronze! [makes siren noise]
New and improved!
Kristin: [simultaneously] Nancy and Xander and Anya. She’s looking real good,
Jenny.
Jenny: She’s looking good. You gotta look good if you wanna talk to scorned
women.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: At least in my experience.
Kristin: It’s true.
Jenny: And this gal she’s hanging out with is talking about her spineless boyfriend
and wishing he could just be actually spineless. [Kristin laughs] And Anya’s like, “I
can do that.”
Kristin: Yeah, do you just wanna make—just wanna get a little more specific? I
love the, like, flirtation towards the wish part of the vengeance demon’s life, you
know? Just like, gently guiding them to say—
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: The proper words. [laughs]
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: So in walks these four. And Anya just says…
[Clip from episode plays]
Anya: Oh, penis.


Kristin: “Oh, penis.” Buffy, Spike, Xander, and Nancy have walked in and Nancy’s
like, “Hey! I know you.”
Jenny: [laughs] Dude, Xander asks, “Did you turn this lady’s ex into a giant worm
monster?” And Anya laughs spitefully. [Kristin laughs] Catches herself with her—the
point of her tongue on top of her top teeth. And then says, in a way that she hopes
conveys that she feels remorse, “Yes.”
Kristin: [laughs] What I enjoyed about that delivery, Jenny, is that you were trying
to both explain it and do it at the same time. [laughs]
Jenny: It’s true. Unfortunately, podcast is not a visual medium, so no one will ever
know.
Kristin: Only me. Only me.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: So yeah. Anya has done this, and she’s like, “I thought we were clear on
the terms. You wish, I dish, that’s how this works.” Love the motto of the
vengeance demon, like, hanging on the door—the clubhouse door. You wish, we
dish.
Jenny: Yes, nice, nice. [Kristin laughs] We have a quota and he has it coming.
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah. So Anya is immediately sad and moved by one thing and
one thing alone, and that is that there is—
Jenny: Puppy!
Kristin: A lost yorkie. Later in the episode, Spike is also most upset about Rocky.
Jenny: Okay, then we get this delightful exchange.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Xander identifies Anya as his ex. Anya tells Spike, when he touches her,
that he doesn’t get to go there again. Nancy’s like, “Hey, wasn’t Spike Buffy’s—”
[stammers and babbles] No, it was never serious, all of this stuff. And then, “Is
there anyone here who hasn't slept together?” Spike and Xander exchange
meaningful eye contact.


Kristin: This has to be, like—there had to be Spander conversations happening in
real time in Season 6, for this to be the choice here. Because there were a lot of
people that could have looked at each other—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Who had not slept together. If—
Jenny: Anya and Buffy…
Kristin: Right. So it’s like—
Jenny: Xander and Buffy…
Kristin: So they probably—so in the canon that we are following, these two look at
each other because they have slept together—
Jenny: Ohh.
Kristin: But nobody knows about it yet.
Jenny: Ohh!
Kristin: And they’re like, oh, ho-ho, our little secret. [laughs]
Jenny: Uh-huh, uh-huh, uh-huh.
Kristin: So we learn—[laughing] ‘cause Buffy’s like, “But Anya, a worm is, like, this
big.” [both laugh] Why is your worm destroying Sunnydale? And Spike is like, “It’s a
Sluggoth demon.”
Jenny: Mm, mmhmm.
Kristin: Not a worm. And you know, this is—Anya’s trying to make up for her past
failures.
Jenny: She’s overcompensating.
Kristin: She’s overcompensating, exactly. There’s probably a really fun way to take
overcompensation and something worm related and smash ‘em together for a fun
word, but I don’t know what it is.


Jenny: Do tweet your portmanteaus at us, @BufferingCast, thanks.
Kristin: So then Anya’s like, “You wouldn’t understand because you’re all human.”
And Spike’s like, “pah-pah-pah! Not me, I’m not a human. I’m a—definitely still a
demon.” And Anya—
Jenny: Dude. The dawn of the lady doth protest too much, methinks.
Kristin: [laughing] Seriously. Seriously.
Jenny: Spike. Cannot.
Kristin: But Anya is like, “Oh—” This is incredible Emma Caulfield delivery. She’s
looking into Spike’s eyes and she’s like, “Oh my god. Oh my god!” And then she’s,
like, so amazed and like, “How did you—how? You have to ex—I can see—” like,
nobody else is in the room with Anya. She’s just, like, holy fuck. You have a fucking
soul. I’ve only seen this happen one other time before, and that dude went to Los
Angeles. What the fuck? And Spike is like—
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: Oh no, oh no, oh no.
Jenny: Yeah, Spike is interiorally spiraling and exteriorally, he’s like, “The lady must
continue to protest!” And—
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Punches Anya in the face?
Kristin: The only way that Spike can prove that he doesn’t have a soul is to be the
biggest asshole that he can possibly think to be. And he does a good job at that.
He’s had a long time to practice that and know what that looks like.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah.
Kristin: So yeah, he punches Anya in the face. Anya, of course, is a fucking
vengeance demon, so she immediately stands up with full vengeance demon face
and is like, “Oh yeah? Okay. Well, let’s see where that goes.”
Jenny: She kicks him across the room!


Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Then he and Buffy exchange punches. This is, like—
Kristin: Buffy’s like, oh, this is when I wanna take my shot. Spike goes lower than
anyone ever needs to go in referencing—
Jenny: [groans loudly] This is so bad.
Kristin: And Nancy, as disgusted as the fucking rest of us, is like, “You’re all a
bunch of fucking freaks! I’m fucking outta here!”
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: I don’t even care if there’s a big worm after me. I can’t stand it anymore.
Jenny: Nancy, out. Spike, I haven’t changed, ha-ha-ha! I’m the exact same Spike
as I was in previous seasons. In fact, I’m doing my best Season 2 Spike impression
right now.
Kristin: Yeah…
Jenny: I’m so bad!
Kristin: So then Xander’s like, “Um, not to, like, interrupt everything that’s
happening here, but Nancy’s gone and there’s a big fucking worm after her.” And
Buffy’s like, goddamnit. You know, ‘cause like—
Jenny: Nancy!
Kristin: All she wants to do is clean the floor with Spike’s fucking face.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: But she knows that her—she’s been chosen to, you know, help people
before killing Spike. So—well, actually—
Jenny: [simultaneously] Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: Technically, maybe she’s kind of been chosen for both. But. [both laugh]
We can debate that later. So she leaves, she goes after Nancy. Nancy is outside,


just like, shuffling, saying, like, “Freaks.” She’s so mad. And she then of course is
being chased by the worm.
Jenny: Ugh, up a fire escape ladder she goes. Buffy, running across the rooftops
like frigging Batman. With Spike following her.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Fucking Batman and Robin, except it’s Buffy and Spike up
there, tip-tapping—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Up on the rooftops, yeah. I love that, actually. We don’t get to see running
on rooftops very often.
Jenny: Okay, are you ready to be disgusted?
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah.
Jenny: Xander is pressuring Anya to reverse the spell. Anya’s like, “I’m in trouble
at work. And my life was great until you left me at the altar.” And Xander has the
gall…[Kristin sighs] to say, “And sooner or later, Anya, that excuse just stops
working.” Xander? I want you to go into the timeout corner.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: And I want you to stay there and think about what you’ve done and think
about what you’ve said. And I don’t want to come out of the timeout corner until
something in your understanding of these circumstances has changed and evolved
in some way.
Kristin: Yeah, I mean, I think, like, this is—because…what Xander is attempting to
say here is, you can’t kill people without consequences because you were hurt.
Right? And like, on paper, that is—I think—you know, I think, like, that’s how he’s
holding onto this logic. ‘Cause that’s what he’s saying.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: But the issue is that we know Xander. We’ve known Xander for a long time.
And Xander constantly does this thing where he holds up something that someone
is doing that is worse than what he did, in his opinion, to get himself off the hook.
And that’s kind of, like, the heartbeat of this, I think, for a lot of us who see it.
Because it—because on paper, he’s right. Like, Anya can’t just go kill people and it


be okay because she was hurt. That’s true. But also, Xander does not have a—he
just doesn’t have a fucking leg to stand on in this fight. He should not be the one
having that conversation with Anya. And the only reason he is is ‘cause he wants to
feel better about the shit that he did.
Jenny: [sighs loudly]
Kristin: Anyway. Fucking Tarzan and Jane out here!
Jenny: [simultaneously] Okay! How about a little Tarzan swing [Kristin laughs] to
boost your mood. Swing right on over to the old trash heap. Spike shows up and is
all, “Leave the violence to the demons. [Kristin laughs] The bad, bad demons with
no souls, just like me.” And says, also, “Big Bad’s back and looking for a little
death.” Unfortunately, contrary to plan, Anya apparently undoes the spell and
Ronnie morphs from a worm into a naked man just in time for Spike to impale
him—
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: With a metal rod.
Kristin: Yeah. Recoiling, because the chip is apparently still fully working. He’s got
a soul and a chip. He’s got a full platter.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: This undoes all of the posturing that Spike has been attempting to do here,
right? He’s like, I’m just gonna get my hair cut and I’m gonna put on a blue shirt,
and then it’ll be fine. And then he’s like, oh no, what if they find out that I have a
soul? I will be evil, look, look at me, I am evil, I am so evil, I could not be more
evil. But then, he hurts a person and it isn’t really about fucking Ronnie. I mean, I
don’t think any of us give a fuck about Ronnie. But for Spike, it’s just a trigger. It
really is just a trigger of like, unleashing all that he’s been trying to hold back,
which is this onslaught of memories of all of the harm that he’s caused [Jenny
sighs] over his hundred-plus years as a vampire. And he just completely loses and
he’s saying, “Right, wrong, help me.” He has this moment where he screams, “No
need to shout.” And, like, I’m assuming that this was a blend of James Marsters and
Doug Petrie. Accolades to both, because the amount of time that he takes to extend
the word “shout” is incredible, followed by, like, this James Marsters laugh that is
just—it’s just really effective, to let you know that he is—
Jenny: Mmhmm.


Kristin: Absolutely not okay, in any way, shape or form. And—
Jenny: Yeah. He’s ping-ponging all over the place. He’s screaming, he’s chuckling,
he’s twirling his little stick. He’s referring to the headliner and saying, “All will come
tumbling down in death, screaming, horror, bloodshed.” FBYID—from beneath you,
it devours. [laughs]
Kristin: Nancy’s outta here. She doesn’t give a fuck about Ronnie, she
doesn’t—she’s just like, you guys, just please leave me alone. Xander is like—
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah.
Kristin: “Guess she’s not calling me.”
Jenny: No, Xander.
Kristin: Xander says, “It could be worse.” And Anya says, “Oh. It fucking will be.”
Jenny: Damnit.
Kristin: Great. Cool. No problems here. So—
Jenny: Uh, Buffy in a graveyard? Question mark? Where someone has left lights
burning at the chapel? Question mark, exclamation point?
Kristin: Right? Have we ever?
Jenny: Well, I don’t think we’ve ever seen a chapel, so we’ve just been saying
cemetery this whole time.
Kristin: And this whole time, we have been incorrect?
Jenny: Well, this could just be a different—I think they’ve noted that there are a
number of burial grounds in Sunnydale—
Kristin: [simultaneously] That’s true. Many, many.
Jenny: So this could just be the one that’s closest to that particular alley.


Kristin: Yeah, I was absolutely astounded to just see this little chapel here. And I
guess Buffy—how did she know? Did she follow Spike or does she have a sense for
where he is? Like, regardless.
Jenny: She licked her forefinger. [Kristin laughs] Held it into the wind. And said to
herself, “From beneath you…[Kristin laughs harder] it devours.” And then went in
the right direction.
Kristin: Oh, god. So, okay. So. You can tell when we start laughing maniacally that
we’re about to have to tackle a really difficult scene. [Jenny groans] So Spike is
like, “The costume didn’t work.” He’s—
Jenny: [quietly] Dude.
Kristin: Not okay at all. But he’s—you know, I mean. Spike is very lucid in the fact
that, like, every—we know what’s happening. And so, when you know what’s
happening, a lot of what he’s saying does make sense. To Buffy, she’s like, what in
the fuck is happening? But we know that he is wrestling with his soul, and that he
put on this outfit and, like, literally got his hair done to try to just not have to feel
this anymore. He’s tried to cut his soul out of his body. [Jenny exhales] In the first
episode, we learn that. So, like, that’s what’s happening here.
Jenny: Kristin, I don’t like it.
Kristin: Yeah, I don’t like it either. Jenny’s just looking at me like, “Can you just
talk about the whole scene?” Um. He’s patching together fragments, right? And this
first part—in my analysis, you know, and like, it’s just whatever your brain does
with it. And—but he says this thing that is very upsetting to hear, which is, “Flesh,
get it hard, service girl.” And if you follow what he’s saying, he’s sort of, like,
recounting their entire relationship from—in, like, a linear form. Again, this is, like,
my analysis. But it very much feels to me like he is talking about—’cause there
is—and it was in the Previously Ons, too. There was a span of time in their
relationship—a rather large part of their relationship—where Spike was in love with
Buffy and Buffy was admittedly just using him to forget herself. Like—
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Using him for service, basically. And like, he’s saying, like, this is how this
began and then I understood that it couldn’t be more because of who I was and
how I was and what I did. So that’s how I—that’s how I heard this part. I don’t
know, Jenny, if that’s just totally off the rails for you or if that’s where you are too.


Jenny: Uh. I wasn’t thinking about it like that, but I do think it—that is very
interesting. And I’m getting on board the…K Train, to—blegh! Town.
Kristin: Yeah, I mean, regardless, this is awful. But I’m pretty sure that we’re just
going through this, like, journey through Spike’s mind.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And that’s where he is when he’s saying that. And then he’s talking about
the spark. He’s call—he’s referring to his soul as the spark, to give us a little more
time with Buffy not knowing. And he is just like, “I—there was no spark. And I knew
that it wasn’t going to fit. It wasn’t going to fit if I didn’t have this spark.” And she’s
like, what in the motherfuck are you talking about? And he’s like, “I can’t say it with
you looking at me.” Which…personally—
Jenny: [sighing] Ooof.
Kristin: Shatters me. I mean, this whole fucking scene is really, really hard to
watch. And he says, “I dreamed of killing you, but you make me weak.” And you
know, essentially, like, all I want is for you to, like, be okay. And when I think of
anything bad happening to you, it destroys me. We get a little fucking Angel
reference, love to hear it. “Angel should have warned me.” And that is what does it
for her.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: As soon as he says “Angel should have warned me,” she’s like, what…this
fucking guy. This is two for two. I’ve got two vampire boyfriends with souls? [Jenny
snorts] What did I do to deserve such a thing? [laughs]
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: Sorry, I just tried to give us a little lightness in this heavy stew. [Jenny
laughs] So—okay, so we get to this line, Jenny, which I think, let’s just spend a
minute on, right?
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: He says, “I wanted to give you what you deserve and I got it.” And a lot of
you wrote in to us at the end of last season, because we were like, did they not tell
James Marsters, what have you. And a lot of people were like, I’ve always read it
like he wanted to go there to become more evil, but the demon that he went to


knew that what he truly wanted, even though he wasn’t aware of it, was his soul.
The reason that we didn’t talk about it quite like that is because of this, essentially.
That, like, he seems to use his own words to say, “I went there to get this because
I knew you deserved somebody with a soul.” But I guess you could read it either
way, even still.
Jenny: It’s so…complicated. Because a television show is linear, right? And this
always felt, to me, like—reading it, like, flatly without, like, my interpretation of the
performances. Just reading them from the screen—was always like, oh, he wants to
get the chip out, he wants to be max evil Spike.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: And then the demon was like, ha-ha-ha, I’m a demon, [both laugh] so I’m
going to—mua-ha-ha!
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Mischievously return your soul to your body. Now, on this watch through,
and with the kind of input from people like those who wrote in to say, like, that
Spike’s conscious desire and Spike’s subconscious desire were at odds. And like,
deep down he wanted to be a better man, but like, his, you know, present
consciousness—
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Was unaware of that desire or unable to access it, right? I really like that
interpretation best. But it does not dovetail quite so nicely—
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: With this text.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: However, because of the beauty of the writing of this scene and the
performance, I’m willing—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: To let it go—


Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: And hold two conflicting things in my mind at the same time.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Can I tell you, Kristin—
Kristin: Yes, please.
Jenny: That apparently, according to an interview that James gave, this scene was
shot with somebody directing—I assume Doug. Joss watched it and was like, “This
sucks.” And went to James and was like, “You were not directed properly.”
Kristin: Oh, wow.
Jenny: “We’re going to reshoot the entire scene.” Which is, like, at least another
day’s worth of work, just for this—
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: Scene. Which, from James telling it, sounds like is unheard of—
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: You know, budgetarily and time-wise.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: They already, you know, were known to be a show that had a more
demanding—
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Shooting schedule than most.
Kristin: Huh.
Jenny: Right? But apparently, the first time around, James was act—like, was just
like, going for it a lot harder.
Kristin: Mmm.


Jenny: And you know, we’ll never see that, probably. But if this is what we get for
an extra day’s work, I think the subtlety and the complexity and the nuance that we
get out of James’ performance in this version of the scene is, like, you know,
devastating.
Kristin: It’s absolutely devastating. There’s, like—even—watching it, it’s
devastating. When I’m, like, writing the words down on the page, it’s devastating.
As a person who is also very precious about things that I create, I, like, definitely
understand—when you have something that is as important as what’s happening in
this scene and it doesn’t feel like it is doing the thing you need it to. Like, I mean, I
have a lot of room for understanding, like, fuck the budget. It has to be right. This
is a massive scene. Massive. It is such a big deal, for so much, for everything that
has come before and for a lot of things that will come after. This scene is incredibly
important. And…you know, Buffy says out loud, “Your soul.” And he—Spike is like,
“It was a bit worse for lack of use. It’s what you wanted, right?” And then he’s sort
of, like, giving a voice to the fact that there’s—like, there’s just all these voices in
his head. There’s him, there’s it, the other, the thing beneath you—still here. That
guy’s still here. And—
Jenny: BY!
Kristin: [laughs] And he’s saying, “They all—they all just tell me to go to hell.” And
I’m gonna play this sound clip. Because we’ve been talking about how powerful this
scene is, and I think that we should just listen to this last bit with Buffy saying why.
[Clip from episode plays]
Buffy: Why? Why would you do—
Spike: Buffy, shame on you. Why does a man do what he mustn’t? For her.
To be hers. To be the kind of man who would nev— [pause] To be a kind of
man. And she shall look on him with forgiveness…and everybody will forgive
and love. He will be loved. So everything’s okay, right? [sizzling sound] C-can
we rest now? Buffy? Can we rest?
Kristin: Soo, yeah. An absolutely brilliantly stunning performance. A gutting scene
to watch. We see—in case you don’t remember and you didn’t rewatch, we see
Spike leaning his whole body on the crucifix or cross in the church.
Jenny: Mmhmm.


Kristin: And so there’s just smoke coming off of his body, his burning body, as he’s
laying on this cross. And just saying, like, I need—I just need for—I need love. Is
really, like, if you whittle it all down to its smallest core, it’s just like, I need—I need
to be loved. I need—I can’t feel like this anymore and I don’t wanna feel like this
anymore. And it is…really upsetting. And Sarah Michelle Gellar, as always—as
always, always, always—is also stunning, in a scene where she has, like, two lines.
And she’s just—
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Taking this all in.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And moving through whatever she’s moving through. Having experienced
the trauma that she’s experienced, but also, trying to—not trying to. But also
inevitably holding that trauma in one hand with the fact that this is a person deeply
suffering, deeply, deeply, deeply suffering. And that’s where this is complex. Like,
not to—not to hit it over the head too many times. But it’s just like, it is complex.
You cannot either/or this. It is not an either/or. It is very complicated and this scene
is exactly that. And I think it is probably one of the more brilliant scenes in the
series, in my opinion.
Jenny: [sighs] Yeah…you know…[Kristin laughs, Jenny sighs again, they both
laugh] I’m just reading my notes over and over again and sighing heavily. For me,
the line is, “They put the spark in me and now all it does is burn.” [Kristin groans]
How fucking dare you?
Kristin: Beautiful writing, too. Like, you have to give credit. ‘Cause like, we talk
about the performance and we’ve talked about the direction. But like, the written
words are…it’s like, fucking, Spike is finally a poet, here. This is fucking poetry,
what he’s saying, the way that these words are put together. In a horrible way, in a
gutting way, but like, truly beautiful.
Jenny: Yeah. And it is so complex [groans] and difficult. I mean, we’ve seen them
do a lot of things together. And…we’ve seen some real—some real fucking horrors.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: You know? Something that I think is interesting is that in this episode, we
see Buffy, you know, really speaking very clearly on her own behalf.


Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Right? And we see a lot of the posturing and the bullshit from Spike.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: But now, we see, here in this final scene, that—for the first time—we are
certain that now Spike is living with what he has done in a way that he has not had
to previously and maybe more importantly—or maybe just as importantly—Buffy
knows.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And I will be interested to see, again—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: What we see in the episodes to come.
Kristin: I think, too, the, like—the vulnerability of Spike and the fact that, like, he
likely has not felt this level of vulnerability since he was very, very small. You know,
like, since he was, like, a kid. ‘Cause like, what he says—that’s a line for me, too, in
this, is: “I can’t say it while you’re looking at me.” You know? Is like, such a—it
makes me wanna, like, weep just thinking about that line. Because it is such—it’s a
few fucking words but in those words is, like, this universe of explaining how
vulnerable he fucking is. Like, he can’t even be looked at when he talks about what
he’s experiencing, ‘cause he is that upset and that exposed, I think, maybe, is the
word. And—
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah. It’s a lot. And so, you know, we’re only at the second episode.
We’ve got 20 more, so I guess we’ll see…
Jenny: Oof. Oof!
Kristin: What lies ahead. But you know, only one thing can take this very upsetting
ship and turn it around, [Jenny gasps] to have a little bit of a good time with some
shit that is not ensouled vampires burning on crosses. And that thing, Jenny, is the
Sexual Tension Awards.
[SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays]


Sexual tension award!
Jenny: Yes, come sail with us on the open seas of the Sexual Tension Awards!
Many a tempest, many a distant siren song calls to thee and says, cast…a vote for
the noms we have slotted. Let me tell you about our noms this week. [laughs]
Kristin: Please.
Jenny: Well! In your first slot. [Kristin laughs] Our noms…ugh. Come for the food,
stay for the terrible flirting! [Kristin laughs] It’s Xander and Nancy. Question mark,
question mark, question mark, question mark, question mark, question mark. In
slot numero dos, well, who are these noms? They’ve been here before, I’m sure
they’ll be here again. A forbidden love that dare not speak its name aloud. It’s
Xander and Spike!
Kristin: I mean, they really—they’re really competing in this episode for a win. I’m
just gonna say it.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah. They want that victory. In slot number three, sometimes two
entities share a magnetic attraction that is undeniable. They simply can’t stay away
from one another, and it is such with this pair of nominees. It’s Buffy…and the
phrase “from beneath you, it devours.” FBYID!
Kristin: I’m so thrilled that it got an acronym so that I can fit it inside of the Twitter
poll. [Jenny laughs] It’s really working out for me. [laughs]
Jenny: And in the fourth slot, another human individual and sort of concept or idea
coupling.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: The passion here, too, is…
Kristin: Hot!
Jenny: Flammable to say the least.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: It’s Dawn and Spike’s imminent death by immolation.
Kristin: [laughs] I’ll try to figure out how to fit that into, like, seven characters—


Jenny: Yeah. Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: Before this post goes live. [both laugh]
Jenny: Please! Oh, god, we can’t do it without you. We need to hear from you. We
need you to make your voice heard in our democracy. Please cast your Sexual
Tension Award vote in our Twitter poll. Find us @BufferingCast. The poll will be live
from today—the airing of this episode—for one entire week. So please, let us know
whose tension you fancy. [Kristin laughs]
[SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays]
Sexual tension award!
Kristin: Alright, well. You know, we started with a worm and some chuckles, and
we ended with a lot of heavy shit. So we know we’re in the right place. We are
here, we are watching the show Buffy the Vampire Slayer, together, with you. And
hey, the next time we have a conversation, it’s gonna be live in real time. And
Jenny, you’re gonna be sitting—
Jenny: [simultaneously] Oh my god.
Kristin: Right next to me instead of through the screen.
Jenny: Ahhhhh!
Kristin: It’s gonna be so weird to not be looking at you while I talk.
Jenny: I—yeah. Could we set things up in some way where we can [both laughing]
stare deep into one another’s eyes? Wait, could I actually Zoom you from the other
room?
Kristin: [simultaneously] It’s like—it’s two live streams. One is just me and one is
just you—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: But we’re actually in the same room, across from each other.
Jenny: Choose your fighter.


Kristin: [laughs] Yeah. If you are just hearing this for the first time, I’m not sure
where you’ve been. But on November 13th, and available On Demand for seven
days after, Jenny and I are recording live. We’re recording the next episode, Same
Time, Same Place, because we’ll be in the same place at the same time. [sings
jaunty tune]
Jenny: [pause] Honk!
Kristin: [laughs] Thank you. I was like, do I not get my supporting honk here?
[both laugh] So yeah, anyway. I think that’s an episode. I think we did it. And like I
mentioned already, we’ll have our re-airing of the conversation with Jess Clark and
Alba. And then we’ll be back with Same Time, Same Place. Onwards and
downwards we go, through Season 7.
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: From beneath us…
Jenny: Well.
Kristin: It devours.
Jenny: From beneath you, devouring, I’m Jenny Owen Youngs! And when I’m not
making this podcast with Kristin, I’m making a lot of music, if you can believe it. In
fact, just last week, I released a new original little—sweet little holiday song called
Fireside. You can find that streaming everywhere, and on this very day, the day this
episode is released, my band, L.A. Exes, have also released a holiday bop!
Kristin: Ugh. It’s what I’ve needed.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Called My Favorite Time of Year.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: So please, feel free to check those out. Also, my last release, Echo
Mountain, has just come out on clear and also gold dust vinyl.
Kristin: Oooh.
Jenny: So.
Kristin: Wow.


Jenny: That’s happening. And you can hear more of my speaking voice over on my
other podcast that I make with my friend, Helen Zaltzman, called VMI Pod.
Kristin: Hell yeah. I can’t wait to get two of those records so that I can look at one
through the other. [both laugh]
Jenny: That’s how you get the secret message. [Kristin laughs] That’s how you
decode the location of my treasure!
Kristin: [laughs] From beneath you, when I’m not devouring, I am helping LGBTQ
communities. You can learn about the work that I do with workplaces—specifically,
I’ve been doing a lot of talks at workplaces recently. My favorite, and I’m sure I’ve
mentioned it, but my favorite, favorite, favorite thing that’s happening more and
more is that parent—the parent ERG of a workplace is getting together with the
LGBTQ ERG. And it brings together a large amount of the workplace, and then we
talk about how to be a great parent and ally to LGBTQ people. It’s beautiful and
brilliant, and I love when large companies put their money to causes like that. It is
amazing and it makes for a better world. So anyway, you can read about the work
that I do at kristinnoeline.com. My middle name is Noeline. It is not Kristin Online.
[Jenny laughs] K-R-I-S-T-I-N N-O-E-L-I-N-E. You can use that spelling to also find
me on Twitter and on Instagram. And you know, you can also follow us as a team,
as a duo. But where? From beneath you?
Jenny: Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram
@BufferingCast. And you can drop us an email at
bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin: You can support the work that we do by joining our Patreon family. We
have a lot of things happening over there, including but not limited to a brand new
installation of Feels Like the First Time with me and Jenny, Jenny showing me
Firefly, the television series—
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: For the first time. So…
Jenny: Incredible. You’re welcome.
Kristin: You can learn more about that and all the things we do on our website,
Bufferingthevampireslayer.com. If you wanna join us on Patreon, just click on
Patreon. If you want to shop for things in our store, you can do that. Just click on


Shop. It’s pretty straightforward. And if you wanna rate and review us, you can do
that too.
Jenny: This episode was produced by Kristin Russo, Jenny Owen Youngs, and Alba
Daza, with support from our consultant, Mackenzie MacDade. And it was edited by
John Mark Nelson. And Kristin, and everyone…till next time…
Both: Awwwwooooooooooooo!
Jenny: Yeah!
[Jenny Owen Youngs performing “Beneath You” off the album “Songs from
Season Seven” by Buffering the Vampire Slayer]
Something’s coming
Something bad
Say goodbye to
The life you had
From beneath you it devours
Make the big bads run and cower
Could be days or could be hours
From beneath you it devours
Someone’s poison
In the well
Girls and boys
We’re all going to hell
From beneath you it devours
Running on unholy power
Any minute, any hour
From beneath you it devours
Where oh where does the monster reside?
Where can you knock on his door?
Way down deep baby down inside
Of the earth’s molten core
From beneath you it devours
Running on unholy power
Any minute, any hour


From beneath you it devours

