Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 6.02: Bargaining Part Two
[CHIME]
Jenny:​ Oh! Hello.
Kristin:​ Oh, hi! How are you today?
Jenny:​ Well! [Kristin laughs] I'm good, how are you?
Kristin:​ I'm doing alright, thank you so much for asking.
Jenny:​ I'm just excited to be here, Kristin. [Kristin laughs] Here at the top of
Season 6, Episode 2. What a time to be alive.
Kristin:​ Mmhmm.
Jenny:​ Before we get started, just a handful of announcements and reminders to
run down. First and foremost with regard to the chronology of our ongoing series,
we have a live taping of the next episode of Buffering.
Kristin:​ Yeah!
Jenny:​ Of Season 6, Episode 3, After Life. That's gonna be this Saturday, October
24th at 6 PM Eastern. Tickets are available now at bit.ly/buffyafterlife, you can head
to our calendar of events at bufferingthevampireslayer.com and click Events. It's
awfully close to Halloween is all I'll say about what we might be wearing [Kristin
laughs] to the taping. It'll be a very fun live event. We did a live event like this—we
did, like, a streaming live taping a while back and it was super, super, super fun.
Kristin:​ Yeah, it's gonna be a fun time. We had a lot of fun on the first livestream
taping. And I have to say that, like, the energy around these parts is pretty wacky.
So I'm gonna just go ahead and guess that we're gonna have a damn good time.
And the fun of seeing us live is that, you know, we could do or say things that we're
like, heavens! [laughing] And we take out of the main episode. But you, live viewer,
you will get to witness the entire show. [laughs]
Jenny:​ The full monty.
Kristin:​ Yes.


Jenny:​ The full Jenny and Kristin. Cool.
Kristin:​ [laughs] Bookending our live taping of After Life, we have our second
anti-racism reading and discussion group. The first is literally tomorrow, October
22nd. Mikki Kendall's Hood Feminism is the book that Mack has chosen for us to go
through. And the way we're structuring the reading and discussion groups this time
is that tomorrow will be Mack talking to us and us doing a Q&A with Mack. So it's
gonna be really, really fun. Mack—if you haven't listened to Mack speak already,
you really should get on that train, boat, ship, bus? Whatever. She's—
Jenny:​ Space rocket.
Kristin:​ Yeah! She's really, really incredible and this is important, important work
that we're all doing together here as a community. Thursday, October 29th—both of
these, by the way, are 7:30 PM Eastern. So next Thursday, we'll be gathering again
and this time doing small breakout groups. So we'll be in groups of, you know, six
to ten people at most and just getting to really talk about some of the things that
the book brings up. And the ways that that intersects with like, our lives and also
the way that it intersects with a little show you may have heard of called Buffy the
Vampire Slayer. You can learn more and register for one or both of those sessions
at bufferingthevampireslayer.com/justkeepfighting.
Jenny:​ And now—[starts making drum beat sound]
Kristin:​ Oh, boy. [laughs] It's really just your jam for this season.
Jenny:​ Yeah! [sings tune] [Kristin laughs] Is that sexy music? It's time for the
Sexual Tension Award results.
Kristin:​ They would—they would all consider it sexy music if they could have seen
the dance you did while you were doing it.
Jenny:​ [laughs] Nobody needs to see that.
Kristin:​ [laughing] Another reason to come to our live taping this Saturday.
Jenny:​ [laughs] Yeah, yeah. Well, you get to witness firsthand my—
Kristin:​ Shoulder shimmy.
Jenny:​ My shoulder work is noted.


Kristin:​ Yeah. Mmhmm.
Jenny:​ It's… legendary. [Kristin laughs] So. Sexual Tension Awards for Bargaining
Part One, you're welcome in advance. Wow, with a very sad 3% of the vote [Kristin
laughs] in fourth place, it's Two Tan Coats, One Small Area of Cubic Feet, Giles and
Xander. Three percent, fourth place, really harsh. Okay. Then, you know, given our
listenership, I thought this would have landed maybe a little bit higher up. 'Cause it
has, I think, two things that a lot of our listeners really like.
Kristin:​ Mmhmm.
Jenny:​ Giles and spreadsheets—
Kristin:​ Mmhmm.
Jenny:​ Somehow third place, only a mere 12% of the vote.
Kristin:​ It was a hard split. It was a hard split. It was a—you know, there was a lot
going on.
Jenny:​ There's a lot going on. Okay. So then in second place, we have, with 26%
of the vote, Xander. Xander Harris. And the Backstreet Boys, including Nick Carter,
and also probably including Nick Lachey.
Kristin:​ Yes, they're both—I think they were both—
Jenny:​ Understood.
Kristin:​ In the Backstreet Boys.
Jenny:​ When you said—they're both in the Backstreet Boys.
Kristin:​ Yeah, yeah, no, totally, a hundred percent. [laughs]
Jenny:​ And sweeping first place with 59% of the vote, it's Two… [Kristin starts
doing same drum beat] it's a banger and a mash. [Kristin stops, laughs] Or Two
Bangers, One Mash. [laughing] It's Spike and Giles. How did I do?
Kristin:​ Wow! Let's get outta here, quick! [laughs]
Jenny:​ Yes. Farewell.


Kristin:​ Congratulations, Spike and Giles. We will send your bangers and your
mash in the mail. And moving right along, I just want to tell you a couple of things
about products in our store. In case you missed it, we have the Sleepaway Witch
Camp design on a pullover sweatshirt now in the US and the UK stores, which is
pretty exciting. Our CDs are in stock but hey, now, also, the ​signed C
​ Ds are in
stock. You might even get an errant cat or dog hair with yours. You know, they've
been—
Jenny:​ Yes.
Kristin:​ In both of our homes, loved and signed by us and our pets. [laughs]
Jenny:​ Frank stepped on at least one CD, so look out for that.
Kristin:​ Yeah. Gus knocked over every single tower of CDs that I made. So
they've—
Jenny:​ Cool.
Kristin:​ They've been loved. There's also our new design by A. Andrews, the Burn
It Down t-shirt. Which I think really speaks to how many of us are feeling. We're
gonna talk about that in a second. And I want to alert you that for Halloween, we
are releasing [Jenny gasps] a special new design from Izzy Rotman.
Jenny:​ Yay!
Kristin:​ You know Isabella from Smash the Demon Lizard Patriarchy and her
brilliant fucking tarot deck. If you don't know it, you—you need to! So, you know,
we've been working with Izzy on a couple of projects. One is gonna be released
on… Halloween!
Jenny:​ Hurray!
Kristin:​ Yeah, so you know, follow our socials 'cause that's how we will tell you
about it. BufferingCast across all Facebook, Instagram, Twitter. And just a
reminder—friendly little reminder that our $10 patrons get 20% off merchandise all
the time, every day. And they also get advance announcements on things that go
up in the store, so if it's like a hot-ticket item, they get first grabs at it. Anyway.
Onwards and upwards, Jenny. Oh! You can find the store at
bufferingthevampireslayer.com, and you know, just click on Shop. You know how to
find these things, come on. You don't need my help anymore.


Jenny:​ And now it appears we've reached the portion of the shared intro Google
doc, uh, that is titled "Osiris's Phallus." I can't wait to see—
Kristin:​ Yeah, don't read ahead, I wanna—I wanna read it to you.
Jenny:​ Okay. [laughs]
Kristin:​ So on the day that we got five hundred thousand and twelve emails about
the Backstreet Boys and our just atrocious Nick error of 2020, I also got an email
entitled "Osiris's Phallus" that made me laugh so fucking har—like, it was already
such a fun and funny and insane day. It was also such a fun and funny and
ridiculous day that this just really tipped the scales for me. Here's a tidbit for you.
From Lauren.
"I hope this email finds you well and that the subject line was enough to grab you."
Lauren, it was. "Your mention of Osiris in the previous episode was enough to
awaken the deeply buried ten-year-old within me that was absolutely obsessed with
Egyptian mythology. Forget Horse Girl, I was a jackal-headed god girl. I don't know
if you were aware, but a few more details about the Osiris myth. After Seth
murdered Osiris, dismembered his body into fourteen pieces and scattered them
across Egypt, Isis did manage to find ​most​ of the body." You can probably see
where this is going. "However—"
Jenny:​ Ohh no!
Kristin:​ [laughs] "There was one part of the body that was forever lost: his penis,
which was swallowed—"
Jenny:​ Nooo!
Kristin:​ "By either a fish or a crocodile, depending on what version of the myth you
are reading." I'm going to continue, Jenny.
Jenny:​ Oh, dear.
Kristin:​ Jenny is agog. "Not one to be discouraged, however, Isis created a
replacement phallus for Osiris."
Jenny:​ Oh, hell yeah! Queer culture steps in.
Kristin:​ [laughs] "Potentially out of either wood or wax, which allowed them to
have sex and for Isis to be able to conceive their son, Horus. My question to you:


do you think Willow and Tara would have had a wooden dildo to go with their
crystal one?" Hell yeah! Well, I mean, no, 'cause ow. [laughs]
Jenny:​ Uh… splinters. [shudders]
Kristin:​ Yeah, you gotta really—at least shellac that sucker if you're gonna—
Jenny:​ 'Cause the risks are too great.
Kristin:​ Yeah, but amazing, amazing information about Osiris. I mean. Love to
hear a crocodile swallowing a phallus replaced with a dildo Greek myth, you know
what I mean? Just as hot as they come.
Jenny:​ Uh, truly. Yeah, that's so great. Thank you so much.
Kristin:​ [laughs] Yeah. I mean, don't thank me, thank Lauren.
Jenny:​ Oh, sorry, that was directed at Lauren. [Kristin laughs] But also you. The
messenger.
Kristin:​ Yeah, thank you. Okay, so we're about to roll into the episode. I wanna
just say that we've gotten a few other emails from you this week about going into
vote. Today is October 21st, 2020, and I have voted. I voted early. Jenny, have you
voted?
Jenny:​ I have voted.
Kristin:​ We have voted. We have voted not only in Sexual Tension Award
nominations, but in our United States election here. And we've gotten a lot of
emails from you all saying, just like, really very heartfelt and wonderful things
about playing Prophecy Girl as you drive to, you know, go and cast your early
votes. And some of you are listening to the podcast just for the first time and are
hitting the episode that we posted the day after the election four years ago and
have written in and being like, whoa, this is like, very bizarre to listen to right now.
I think, you know, we're in a spot where we are having a lot of feelings. This is a
really hard time. And because we were—I mean, I feel like, Jenny, we were like,
born in the election of 2016. You know, like, we had done a handful of episodes and
it really shaped community here, and has continued to shape and inform the work
that we do. And so we just wanted to like, give a little space for that and to let you
know that we are here. And we really acknowledge the many different emotional
spaces that many of you are sitting in right now. And just to let you know, you


know, that we're like, reaching our little hands across the divide and squeezing
yours.
Jenny:​ Yeah. And whatever happens… we'll still be here. To say very stupid things
[Kristin laughs] into your ears. Every other week. Gently—
Kristin:​ Mmhmm.
Jenny:​ And with compassion.
Kristin:​ Mmhmm.
Jenny:​ And we love you. And Frank loves you.
Kristin:​ Sam and Gus would like you to know that they feel mostly love, and
sometimes ambivalence, towards you. But, you know.
Jenny:​ Sure, sure.
Kristin:​ Nothing if not consistent. And you're right. We will be here. We'll be here
on—November 4th is our next episode. So we're gonna keep on squeezing your
hands. We're gonna keep on doing the work. And I think that we all know that, no
matter what happens over the next couple of weeks, we have a lot of fucking work
to do. No matter what happens, the work is going to continue. And we're here and
committed to that. And also just wanna thank you all for the work that you continue
to do and for the sort of inspiration and energy that you bring to us in that work
and in that community and connection. And also, to give a really special thank you
to Mack and Alba specifically, who came on at a time when we wanted to take the
work to new and different places. And have just been such a wonderful presence in
the universe.
Jenny:​ Yeah. Yeah.
Kristin:​ So, you know. To that end, I guess we could roll on over to, you know, a
Slayer digging herself out of her own grave. That seems… on theme.
Jenny:​ It's about right. Yeah, yeah.
Kristin:​ [laughs] We really love you!
Jenny:​ [laughs] Let's do it!


[Buffering theme plays]
Jenny:​ Hello and welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast where we are
watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, one by one,
spoiler free. I am undisputed number one champion knowledge king about Nick
Lachey, a member of 98 Degrees and former spouse of Jessica Simpson. I've
known it all along. He is brunette—he actually kind of has like a general—if he was
somebody on Buffy, he would be Angel. I'm Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin:​ Uh… I am Kristin Russo. The internet disagrees with you, we've had a lot of
people positing that Nick Lachey is actually much more akin to a Riley.
Jenny:​ Huh.
Kristin:​ I am incredibly well-versed, very much knew all the time, still know, knew
in the 90s and know now, that Nick Carter is a member of the Backstreet Boys,
brother to Aaron Carter. Would never, ever get them confused, would we, Jenny?
Jenny:​ Not ever. Now that you mention it, Nick Lachey is kind of Angel's hair
stitched onto Riley's face.
Kristin:​ Yeah. Which is—which sort of like, you know, begs the question, did we
mess up Nick Lachey and Nick Carter? Or did you want to posit that Xander's choice
would actually be Nick Lachey, given his resemblance to Riley—
Jenny:​ Ohh, yep.
Kristin:​ And Angel.
Jenny:​ Yep, yep.
Kristin:​ You know?
Jenny:​ You think Nick Lachey's got a lot of crescent wrenches? [Kristin laughs]
Laying around, just waiting to be borrowed?
Kristin:​ Man, it's Season 6 and we can't even get through a goddamn intro over
here! This week—hey. We're gonna finish this double-header episode with Season
6, Episode 2, Bargaining Part Two. You should stay tuned at the end of this podcast
every other week for an original song, written by Jenny, recapping the Buffy
episode that we are discussing.


Jenny:​ Bargaining Part Two was written by David Fury, directed by David
Grossman, and originally aired on Dave-tober 2nd, 2001. [Kristin laughs] 'Cause
of… all the Davids. October 2nd. Kristin's staring at me like she's never heard me
do really horrific wordplay before.
Kristin:​ [laughs] This is the one where, according to IMDB, as the Hellions continue
to ravage Sunnydale, Buffy claws her way out of her own grave and must come to
the aid of [laughing] her friends. God, if that's not—if that doesn't sum it up! Buffy
has to—let me just read that again. [both laughing] Buffy claws her way out of her
own grave and must come to the aid of her friends. That's where we're at. Kids,
Season 6!
Jenny:​ Ahhh! Here we are. Hey, I'm wondering if they produced this Previously On
after the fact, for like, when the show was in syndication. Because this aired back
to back with Part One.
Kristin:​ You know what, it did, Jenny. And I actually, for the first time in this
season, watched Season 6, Episode 2 on the DVDs and what I found is that there is
no Season 6, Episode 2 on the DVDs. I actually had to fast-forward through one
long episode. There is no break.
Jenny:​ Ohh.
Kristin:​ So there's no way that there was a Previously On in real time, because
[Jenny laughs] this just aired straight-up like one giant movie of an episode. And I
didn't even see the Previously On 'cause I watched the DVDs. Was there anything
good in there?
Jenny:​ It was just like, you know, this, that, the other. [Kristin laughs] Buffy's
dead, Buffy's back, Osiris, the urn, et cetera, bikers, whatnot.
Kristin:​ I love—really jumping ahead here, but—maybe love is the wrong word. But
I did think it was a notable character choice that Xander refers to the Urn of Osiris
as the Urn of Cirrhosis. Given the fact that cirrhosis is a disease of the liver, often
affects alcoholics. And we know that Xander has parents who are alcoholics.
Jenny:​ Oh yeah, and also, wasn't his liver impacted by his, um, paranormal
syphilis infection?
Kristin:​ Oh my god, you're right! Man, Xander. The liver of the Scoobies.
[laughing] Everybody says he's the heart. [both laugh] Liver alone! Sorry, I had to
do it.


Jenny:​ Wow.
Kristin:​ Sorry! Anyway. The Hellions have gotten… I mean, their first—like, the
first line that we hear is them saying to the Buffybot, "I'll service you, girl-toy."
Jenny:​ Eww!
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ [singsong] Ew, ew, ew, ew! Ewww!
Kristin:​ [simultaneously] Yeah, I don't know that we're gonna… say all the things
that they say in this episode. 'Cause it's pretty fucking gross. And you know, not
that this show hasn't touched on themes of like, sexual assault? But I think that
they're going a little hard on this here episode, in a way that we haven't seen or
heard before.
Jenny:​ This is the first—this is some—this is some UPN 9 shit. Well, it's UPN 9
where I grew up. I don't know if it had became different numbers depending on
where you're from. [laughs]
Kristin:​ [simultaneously, laughing] No, it's UPN 9 too, yeah.
Jenny:​ But UPN had slightly different—like, I feel like the show gets racy—like, the
language in the show gets more… entendre-y?
Kristin:​ Mmhmm.
Jenny:​ Or just more, like, overtly sexual?
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ Or… whatever.
Kristin:​ But in like, an aggressively bad way—like, in an aggressively violent way.
Jenny:​ In this instance, it's bad.
Kristin:​ Yeah. Yes. Yes.


Jenny:​ What I remember from my last watch of Season 6 is that, like, just in
general, whether it's like, bad stuff like this or like—
Kristin:​ Mmhmm.
Jenny:​ Sexy time stuff…
Kristin:​ Yeah, yeah.
Jenny:​ It's all… cranked up to 11.
Kristin:​ You know, it was interesting talking to LaToya last week about sort of
Angel being on The WB. And like, Angel the show trying to establish itself. And then
thinking about that—'cause you know, I mean, I think about things in terms of like,
you know, who's Faith gonna make out with? How many buttons are gonna pop off?
Jenny:​ Mmhmm, mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin:​ It's not as common for me to think about where the show was in the—sort
of like, in the canon of television right now. And what it was thinking about, and
was it thinking like, uh, okay, we've done five seasons. Who are we appealing to?
We're on a different network. We need to be more adult, we need to, like, appeal to
more adult themes. Like, all of these things that were happening behind the scenes.
Jenny:​ I wonder too if it's just like, the network—like, the suits, the censors.
[Kristin laughs] Whoever was in charge of saying like, oh, you're gonna need to edit
this. If it was just kind of a different vibe at UPN. They were like, cool dad, you only
see him every other weekend but he's like, drink all the soda you want.
Kristin:​ [laughs] And also, I just, like—the suits and the censors is really good.
Suits and the censors. So something that occurred to me at the top of this episode,
Jenny—and I'm sure that we've said some version of this before. But the fact that,
right, Season 6, Episode 1, Buffy is not alive. And Willow is sort of the leader of the
group and we hear that. But in this episode, Willow is not okay at all. She is passed
out and can't really walk. And Xander takes over. And you know, I mean, there's a
couple of things and I'm sure we'll talk about them. But overall I feel like all three
of these core Scoobies—'cause I would consider Buffy, Xander and Willow the core
three—
Jenny:​ Sure.


Kristin:​ They are all leaders in their own right. Like, they are all characters who, if
the shit hits the fan, they're able to say, like, okay, you do this, you do that, you go
here, whatever. They don't hesitate.
Jenny:​ Mmhmm.
Kristin:​ And we see that from Xander in this first scene. And I think in this episode,
Xander is… he brings up a lot of good points. [laughs] Right now it's not so much a
point that Xander brings to the table. It's just that he is very much like—he's very,
like, reassuring but in a very, like… forceful way? Forceful makes it seem negative.
But it's like, Tara is really struggling with the fact that Willow is not okay. And the
roles were reversed when they were doing the spell. It was Tara who was like, she's
fine, Xander. Like, let her be. But now that Willow is passed out and the spell has
gone wrong, or so we think, Xander's the one that's sort of saying to Tara, like,
listen, we have to split up. And I know you wanna be with Willow, but I can carry
her. So I need to carry her and I'm gonna take her. Right?
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ And I think that, like, you know, patriarchy aside, Xander is stronger and
can carry Willow when Willow needs somebody to carry her.
Jenny:​ Yeah. Sometimes, you know, when you look back, after you've trekked
across your burning town under siege from a motorcycle club comprised mostly of
demons—with a few human members—you look back and you see one set of
footprints. And you say… [Kristin laughs] Xander. You abandoned me. And Xander
says, no, that's when I carried you.
Kristin:​ Wow!
Jenny:​ And then he takes two pennies—[both laugh] he takes two pennies… ahh.
Kristin:​ Ahh.
Jenny:​ Hurray.
Kristin:​ Well, while Jenny continues her standup routine. [laughs]
Jenny:​ What the hell?
Kristin:​ It's good. I didn't even know where you were going and I was just like,
patiently waiting for the joke. I was like, where are we going?


Jenny:​ Mm. [laughs]
Kristin:​ It was great. A great ride had by all. They decide—again, effectively—to
leave the Buffybot. They can't save the Buffybot, they know this. You know, leaving
behind the Buffybot, of course, is not as simple as just leaving behind a robot. And
the way that they utilize the Buffybot to show us the Scoobies, like, moving on,
needing to move past the death of Buffy, needing to let go of Buffy, are throughout
this episode. And this is the first time in this Part Two where we see it, where
they're saying, leave Buffybot behind. But what they really mean is, we didn't bring
her back to life. We have to let her go.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ Aww.
Jenny:​ No. But don't worry, because six feet under the ground… two tiny little fists
are about to start tip-tip-tappin' on heaven's door. As the old saying goes.
Kristin:​ [singing] Tip-tip-tappin' on heaven's door! [laughs]
Jenny:​ Yeah. Yeah.
Kristin:​ It's more like claw-claw-clawing at… heaven's door. This is rough.
Jenny:​ Uh, yeah, it is hard to watch and it goes on—a lot of things happen in
between the various cuts of Buffy, first open handedly, then—like, tapping on the
coffin.
Kristin:​ Mmhmm.
Jenny:​ And then, like, clawing the fabric, and then eventually punching a hole. And
then getting dirt rained on her, et cetera, et cetera.
Kristin:​ Not to get too morbid too quick, but we are in an episode where Buffy
literally digs herself out of her own coffin. So I feel it is connected. But this—the
first thing that I was thinking about when she was digging herself out of her own
grave was, uh, if you are a person who wants to get buried and you are going to be
in a coffin, would you consider perhaps asking to be buried with a tool or two?
Because what if you come back to life and you find yourself in this predicament?
Wouldn't it have been nice if Buffy had been buried with, you know, like a hammer
or a shovel or, you know, any—anything to help her get out of the coffin.


Jenny:​ Well. You know, I think that would have been helpful for Buffy. But I have
bad news for regular mortals?
Kristin:​ Mm.
Jenny:​ I did a little research. And this is actually something that's been
myth-busted by Myth Busters. [Kristin laughs] Largely, I think, inspired by Kill Bill
Part 2, which features a very similar scene. [under breath] And also, came out, like,
three years after this episode of Buffy aired.
Kristin:​ Ohhh, a little copy—little copying going on? Little plagiarism?
Jenny:​ [laughs] You know—you know—
Kristin:​ Keep to your own notes.
Jenny:​ Quentin Tarantino's… influences notoriously include Buffy the Vampire
Slayer. [Kristin laughs] That scene was the first thing I thought of when I was
watching this and I was interested that it came out after this ep. Consider—you
know, a few years later. And I think probably a few more people saw Kill Bill Part 2
than Buffy Bargaining Part Two.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ And a lot of those people wrote in to Myth Busters and asked, could a
person punch their way through a coffin and then, like, dig up through the dirt?
Okay, so this is what Myth Busters found. Are you ready?
Kristin:​ Oh my god, how did they—how did they bust this myth? Did they put
somebody underground in a coffin?
Jenny:​ Check it out. Based on tests with a martial arts expert, the build team
determined that the greatest force at which a person in a coffin could punch is
about 1,450 Newtons.
Kristin:​ Okay.
Jenny:​ Grant—who I guess is a Myth Buster—[Kristin laughs] built a robot that
could generate that force with a three-inch punch. And it was placed inside a plain
pine coffin. After 600 punches, the robot had created a crack in the lid, but had not
punched a hole in it. The team then placed six feet of dirt on top of the coffin


[Kristin gasps] and again, the robot only split the lid and could not create a hole. To
test what would happen if a hole could be made, the build team built an acrylic
coffin outfitted with a trap door and a sliding panel to let dirt in. First,
Tory—assumably another Myth Buster?—entered the coffin and two feet of dirt were
placed on him. He was able to dig himself out. When Grant repeated this
experiment with six feet of dirt, the dirt entered the coffin so fast and filled it so
completely, there was no way anyone could escape. Based on these results, the
myth was declared busted.
[HELLMATH jingle plays]
Hellmath!
Kristin:​ I want you to know that if you were listening to Jenny describe that and
you started to get, like, short of breath and a little dizzy, I am with you. I got,
like—the claustrophobia that I got, here in this little closet that I sit in while you
described that, was actually very real. I literally would ​never b
​ e a part of this
experiment. I can barely sit in this tiny closet right now, aboveground, without
getting panicky. But I will say that we know that the Slayer has Slayer strength. So
what I would like to—I would like to call back the Myth Busters, please. If we could
have the Myth Busters please call us.
Jenny:​ Uh-huh.
Kristin:​ We would like to have the robot have Slayer strength and see what's
possible there.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ Because that—you know, vampires are digging themselves out of their own
graves often, and they have super strength, and Buffy has super strength. So. You
know. A case could be made, is all I'll say. To our mathematicians out there, you
heard the Newtonian force that the punch was given. Perhaps you can whip up a
little equation for us on if Buffy has super strength.
Jenny:​ Uh-huh.
Kristin:​ We'll call it—we'll call it—what do you think? How many times a human
strength does Buffy have? Ten?
Jenny:​ Yeah, somewhere between five and ten. She's like, punching people across
the room sometimes. Depends what season you're in, you know?


Kristin:​ Yeah. So write in to us, bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com. Make your
subject "this is not about the Backstreet Boys." Just kidding. [both laugh] But
definitely write in if you have some math here for us. So I didn't watch the entire
director's cut, but I did watch a little bit here and there. It was Marti Noxon and one
of the Daves. Greenwalt, maybe? Fury? [laughs] I don't know. Which Dave?
Jenny:​ Hmm.
Kristin:​ One of the Daves. And Marti were talking and they commented on how
Alyson Hannigan is just like, this champion crier. And that she—I think like the
quote that Marti Noxon said was something like, she'll be at the craft services, like,
talking about a Butterfinger and sticking gummy bears in her ears. [laughing] And
then she, all of a sudden, is like, on set and sobbing her fucking face off. [Jenny
laughs] But we get a lot of—we get a lot of Willow crying in this episode. And it
starts here, where—oh god! This is awful! This is awful. "She's waiting on us, on
me," like, this vision that Willow has—
Jenny:​ Ohh.
Kristin:​ Of having left—I mean. She's not wrong, as it turns out. She is waiting on
some-fucking-body to help her out of the ground. But for Willow, you know, she
wants to go back. And Xander has to tell her that the urn broke, remind her that
the urn broke. And…
Jenny:​ She says, it's all for—it was all for nothing.
Kristin:​ Mm!
Jenny:​ Buffy's really gone.
Kristin:​ Mm!
Jenny:​ The one way in this group you could be sure that Buffy's about to come
back is how many times people say that Buffy's really gone [both laugh] in this
episode.
Kristin:​ That's the actual magic spell. It's like—it's like, um—what is it? Bloody
Mary, Bloody Mary—oh god, I won't say it a third time.
Jenny:​ Right.


Kristin:​ [laughs] This—the front of my iPad is far too reflective for me to say that a
third time. But yeah, they just have to say "Buffy's gone, Buffy's gone, Buffy's
gone" and then ba-bam. Buffy's not gone. So, Anya and Tara. So cozy in this
episode, you know?
Jenny:​ Oh, yeah.
Kristin:​ Just really having some gal pal time.
Jenny:​ Wow, yes.
Kristin:​ Hiding behind a rock.
Jenny:​ One of my… one of my favorite forms of foreplay. Hiding behind a boulder
together. [Kristin laughs] Ah, yes.
Kristin:​ Tara says, like—
Jenny:​ Takes me right back to high school.
Kristin:​ [laughs] Tara says, we should—we should stay off the main roads and take
alleys if we can. To which I say, Tara. [both laugh]
Jenny:​ All you have is alleys!
Kristin:​ Sunnydale is literally made of only alleys, so you're probably good. [both
laugh]
Jenny:​ I noticed, while I was watching the two Hellions who are hunting for Tara
and Anya, that the Hellions have more or less the same ears as Frank. [Kristin
laughs] They're just positioned slightly different on their heads. But I was definitely
like, there's my stupid dog. Look at him go.
Kristin:​ [laughs] The Hellions—
Jenny:​ He's in a motorcycle club.
Kristin:​ The Hellions are like—I mean, obviously like, they've destroyed the Urn of
Osiris incidentally and later, will like, dismember the Buffybot. And they're like, very
violent and we see that. But they also, like, have these weird other characteristics
written into them. Like, for example, the line that the one says to the other—these
tough motorcycle dudes [Jenny laughs]—is like, you've got a bug up your crack?


[laughing] Which just like, doesn't have the ​oomph​ that you'd think the motorcycle
guy would have.
Jenny:​ No.
Kristin:​ And later, in a scene—there's a scene where two of the Hellions are like,
riding—they're chasing after either the Buffybot or I think it might be actual Buffy.
And they—
Jenny:​ It's actual Buffy.
Kristin:​ They crash into each other, they fall off their fucking bikes. And they leave
room for both of them to be like, "sorry, I'm sorry." [laughing] They both apologize
to each other.
Jenny:​ [laughs] Yeah.
Kristin:​ So you know, maybe there's hope for the Hellions.
Jenny:​ Teamwork makes the dream work.
Kristin:​ [laughing] Yeah.
Jenny:​ Kristin. These same Hellions that are looking for Tara and Anya happen to
casually mention that they're gonna go hit up some stores. [both laughing] And
Anya's like, oh no, not the stores.
Kristin:​ Anya—
Jenny:​ Anya's priorities shift in a millisecond.
Kristin:​ Yeah, she was like, oh no, we might die. Wait, bigger concern, they may
take some things from the Magic Box. Or destroy the Magic Box. And I just got it!
You know? She's like, I literally have only had the Magic Box for half of one second.
Giles is probably still on the plane. So then we go to the Summers' house where
Spike and Dawn are—Dawn is, like, fully me when there's a tornado warning and
it's like, stay away from the windows. [laughing] Like, she's just like, pressed—
Jenny:​ She's like, pressing her eyeballs against the glass. [Kristin laughs] "Maybe I
can see it!" Spike's stressed out to see these Hellions. He clearly—
Kristin:​ Yeah.


Jenny:​ Is familiar with them. He's looking for weapons, but he's just like, burning
his hand on crosses and shit. [Kristin laughs] 'Cause there are no weapons, there
are only holy water and crosses for some reason.
Kristin:​ Right. And they sort of piece together that—I think Spike uses his previous
knowledge of the Hellions to be like, they only go to places that they know are
vulnerable. Which they—I mean. There's a lot of, like, piecing together in this
double-part premiere. But they piece together—
Jenny:​ The whole first half of this second installment is like, everybody playing
catch up.
Kristin:​ Right, right.
Jenny:​ And like—
Kristin:​ So they're like, they know, they know—they must know. Word must have
finally gotten out that Buffy is actually a robot, Buffy is dead. And that's why the
Hellions are here. Dawn wants to stay at home, Spike wants to run. I kind of am
with Dawn on this. Like, I just feel like probably staying put was the safer choice,
since Spike is there.
Jenny:​ Yeah, well, it's interesting. It seems particularly the safe choice because the
Hellions are destroying literally every house on the block except the house that
they're in. [both laugh] And if they're passing that one over for some reason,
maybe there's some fucking lamb's blood over the front door or something.
Kristin:​ Yeah, yeah, yeah, of course, of course. In the classic—
Jenny:​ Other preventative measures—
Kristin:​ Mmhmm. [laughs]
Jenny:​ May have been taken. But you know, if it ain't broke, don't fix it. Go to the
basement. Probably.
Kristin:​ Go to the basement. You'll be safe down there, safe enough. So. Okay.
Buffy is digging again. And she, in this scene, gets free. She's clawed her way
through the dirt. Marti Noxon makes a joke about how, like, of course she's crawled
her way out through the dirt because there's one leaf in her hair. [both laugh] But I
actually—you know, on the flip side, as a viewer, I actually thought that they did a


pretty good job here. I mean, obviously you would look a hell of a lot worse if you
just crawled through six feet of dirt. But I like what they've done with Sarah
Michelle Gellar's hair or, you know, what wig they've chosen for her, that like, it
notably shows growth. It's, like, not—you know, it's not styled in any way. It's sort
of just like, a lot of hair. [laughs]
Jenny:​ Yeah. Interesting how her hair grew while she was dead, but her fingernails
did not.
Kristin:​ Oh, god. Thank god that they did not make the choice to be realistic—
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ In that instance.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ I'm upset.
Jenny:​ Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. This hand—this single hand, looking like a tree
sprouting up from the grave.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ I mean. How else would you do it? But I feel like it's worth just mentioning
that you get that exact same shot in Kill Bill Part 2 as well.
Kristin:​ Mm. Mmhmm. Oh, wow, that's interesting that it's exact. I mean, you—the
hand coming up, yes. But the exactness of the—
Jenny:​ Yeah. I mean, they zoom—in Kill Bill, they zoom in from kind of like far
away.
Kristin:​ Mmhmm.
Jenny:​ But once they get to about the same framing, it's just like, boosh!
Kristin:​ I would love to like, just see a sit-down chat between Uma and Sarah, you
know? Like, what was it like for ​you t​ o crawl out of your own grave?
Jenny:​ Mmm.


Kristin:​ What was it like for ​you​? You know. What was it like for ​you​ to be a
woman in Hollywood? You know, just like—just drawing some lines, making some
connections.
Jenny:​ Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
[THE PATRIARCHY jingle plays]
The patriarchy! [thunder clap, evil laughter]
Kristin:​ Sarah Michelle Gellar, an Emmy. An Emmy, many Emmys for Sarah
Michelle Gellar. We're getting facial expressions from her that we've never gotten
before, on the heels of the finale of Season 5, where we got facial expressions
we've never gotten from her before.
Jenny:​ Hmm.
Kristin:​ And it's quite incredible. Her face when she surfaces—and really,
throughout this whole episode, her—she looks like a scared puppy. Truly, like, she's
just so confused and so terrified—
Jenny:​ Yeah. Mmhmm.
Kristin:​ And she has so many—it's like, obviously the trauma of digging herself out
of her own grave is enough. But she also, in this episode, experiences first this,
where she has the trauma of turning around and reading her own headstone?
[Jenny shudders] And then later, which we'll talk about when we get there, she also
experiences the trauma of seeing herself dismembered by a Hellion group. Literally,
in real time. So, um, this is fucked up. We told you, we warned you. We told you to
put your arms up at the peak of the rollercoaster [laughing] last episode.
Jenny:​ God, yes.
Kristin:​ Ugh, god. Also, can I ask a few questions about funeral Buffy?
Jenny:​ Yes?
Kristin:​ Why is she dressed in this fucking thing? In these shoes? Why? Why? We
are to believe that no one knew that she died in her family. Uh, her bi—like, blood
family, apart from Dawn.
Jenny:​ Yeah, how'd they get this done? Really?


Kristin:​ Right. Right. Did they pay off a funeral director to do this?
Jenny:​ Demon funeral director, probably.
Kristin:​ A de—okay, so—but I'll get them that. But what I'm really most upset
about is, if we're to follow the through line of this narrative, it was Giles, Spike,
Willow, Anya, Tara, Dawn. These are the people who said, we would like to have a
tiny funeral, a tiny service to say goodbye to our friend, sister, Slayer, et cetera.
They chose a black dress that's all frumpy and also these weird little kitten heels?
[Jenny laughs] We've never seen those shoes ever, ever! Why wouldn't they put
her in a fucking—
Jenny:​ [laughing] Kris…
Kristin:​ I'm upset!
Jenny:​ Kristin!
Kristin:​ What?!
Jenny:​ Her funeral outfit is too hot from the ankles down and too frumpy from the
ankles up!
Kristin:​ [laughs] I just feel like she doesn't look like the fucking Slayer. And I know
why, like, I know that—I know that, like, from a costuming perspective, when
you're creating the show and you want it to be staggering that she is risen from the
grave. And it has to be very different from like, where we were when we last saw
her in Season 5. Like, I understand that—I understand. So you don't have to tell
me the answer, 'cause I know it. But from like an in-universe perspective, I just do
not buy that they would not have put her in a slay—her Slayer fucking best. You
know?
Jenny:​ Mmm.
Kristin:​ That's all. Thank you for letting me rant, you know? Like, sometimes a girl
just needs to shout.
Jenny:​ Yep. Yep, yep. Okay, so after she makes her way out of her grave, she
takes a little stroll through downtown Sunnydale and sees that everything is on fire
and demons are running around on motorcycles.
Kristin:​ Yeah.


Jenny:​ Fine. [Kristin laughs] Then!
Kristin:​ "Fine."
Jenny:​ Anya and Tara get to the Magic Box first. [laughs] And Tara is very, you
know, stressed out that Willow is not there yet. Anya is immediately relieved that
her beautiful store is intact. [Kristin laughs] Then once that's out of the way, she's
terrified for Xander.
Kristin:​ Mmhmm. I mean… also, something that I wanna say before we dive into
the Magic Box scene is also that in that scene where Buffy is wandering through
Sunnydale on fire, we get a very clear Buffy vision shot. I think that they've
happened before that moment, but it's really obvious that we're looking through her
eyes and that her eyes aren't completely focused, having been just re-popped into
their sockets. [laughs]
Jenny:​ Yeah, yeah, that's one of the side effects of having—
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ Eyes revivified.
Kristin:​ [laughs] Revivified?
Jenny:​ Shhh.
Kristin:​ [laughs] I would like to give a shoutout to Anya's beautiful green velvet
jacket. I would like to touch it the way that Tara will soon touch Anya's hair. It's
very romantic. I'm just gonna say it.
Jenny:​ Um.
Kristin:​ She's like, oh no, what if Willow doesn't find her way back? [both laugh]
Jenny:​ We'll have to… carry on together, alone here.
Kristin:​ Sharing in our… grief together.
Jenny:​ [simultaneously] Running the Magic Box together—Magic ​Box​, if you know
what I mean.


Kristin:​ [laughs] I'm hoping that you all heard that over me, but I heard it through
my own self, so I think that they probably heard your Magic Box joke.
Jenny:​ Listen! [Kristin laughs] I just want to, in my own defense, say that I just
double-checked and looked up "vivify" and the definition is "enliven or animate." So
when I said revivify… revivification, whatever the hell I said—[Kristin laughs]
I—damnit!—refuse you scoffing at my word choice, thank you.
Kristin:​ Yeah, yeah. I mean, I always assume that if we are in a debate about what
a word means, you are correct. So that's fair. [laughs]
Jenny:​ Oh, thank you.
Kristin:​ Something that I wanna say about this scene that I really liked was that
Tara and Anya have the—apart from, you know, the romantic hair-stroking—
Jenny:​ Mmm.
Kristin:​ [laughs] Was that Tara and Anya have this exchange where Tara says, to
sort of calm Anya down, "if something happened to Willow, I would know." Right,
and that's rooted, we think, in: oh, well, Tara's a witch and Willow's a witch so like,
they would be able to sense that. But then she continues and finishes that sentence
and she says, "so would you." And I just thought that was really, like, a powerful
thing. I don't think that it's rooted in, you know, Anya being an ex-demon. I think
she's trying to say, like, we love our people so deeply that we would know if
something happened to them. And it wasn't rooted in witchcraft at all. So I thought
that that was really nice.
Jenny:​ And something has happened to their people, but it's not death. They're
just doing donuts in the woods, following a blimp in the sky instead of… [Kristin
laughs] a star.
Kristin:​ Do you think it was really a blimp, or did Xander just wanna correct
something to feel a little bit better about himself? [both laugh]
Jenny:​ Mmm, very possible.
Kristin:​ 'Cause like, what's—
Jenny:​ Also, how do you even identify… blimps don't get high up enough to—
Kristin:​ No.


Jenny:​ Look like the size of a plane. Okay.
Kristin:​ I don't think that they do. And also, like, a Sunnydale blimp? What's it
blimping around about?
Jenny:​ Uh… Goodyear Tires, baby.
Kristin:​ [laughs] I guess they sell Goodyear Tires everywhere. Even in Sunnydale.
Willow is like, oh but look, over there, what is that glowing thing? And it is a
Tinkerbell that Tara has sent to Willow using magic. I've gotten really interested
now in looking up a lot of these spells and who they're referencing, you know? And
I'll say that this is pretty surface research, so I would really love to hear from those
of you who are more versed in wicca and in the history of witchcraft.
But I looked up Aradia—"Aradia," I believe, is how Tara pronounces it. I don't know
if that is the correct pronunciation. And I sort of, like, really did fall down this rabbit
hole. I'm so sorry, Anya, for saying "rabbit hole" so many times. [both laugh] But I
learned that Aradia [pronounced: uh-RAD-ia] or Aradia [pronounced: uh-RAID-ia],
however we say it, was the principal figure in a book written by this guy, Charles
Godfrey. Sorry, Charles Godfrey Leland. He was a folklorist. This book was written
in 1899. He believed it to be a genuine religious text that was used by a group of
pagan witches in Tuscany. And so Aradia is a main character portrayed as a
messiah sent to Earth in order to teach the oppressed peasants how to perform
witchcraft to use against the Roman Catholic Church and the upper classes.
So that—I was like, well, that's interesting. But then I found out that this book,
Aradia, the Gospel of the Witches, became one of the primary sources for
neopaganism half a century later. So I'm just saying, like, I—all I did was peek at a
couple of the little folded-over pages in this book. And I would love—some of you
are probably listening to this, you're furious with me 'cause you already know the
story and I've probably fucked up three-quarters of it. But I just wanna know more
about Aradia. I just wanna know a little bit more. So if you wanna tell me more,
write in. So when Tara calls on Aradia to make her little Tinkerbell, Kristin—picture
Kristin in her living room, like, just furiously flipping through digital pages of wiccan
history. [both laugh]
Jenny:​ Having freshly watched the Vendy Wiccany episode of PEN15. [laughs]
Kristin:​ Oh my god! Vendy Wiccany. What an episode of television. If you don't
watch PEN15, you don't know what I'm talking about or what Jenny's talking about.


But Vendy Wiccany really called me the fuck out on who I was in middle school.
[laughs]
Jenny:​ Mm. Mm. Mmmm.
Kristin:​ Okay! Moving right along. Jenny, something that you—you talked about
the north star and the blimp and the airplane—
Jenny:​ Yes.
Kristin:​ And we've talked about Tinkerbell. But another really important part of this
scene, and this goes back to what I was referencing at the top of the episode, is
Xander in this scene with Willow, saying—and this isn't the first time he said it.
"Why didn't you tell us? Like, a fucking snake came out of your fucking mouth. Like,
that was not your average, everyday spell and you didn't prepare us at all. Why?
What did we do over there?"
Jenny:​ Yeah. I mean, I get where he's coming from, but also, I feel like everyone
is like—you all did a spell to bring someone back from the dead—
Kristin:​ Fair. Fair.
Jenny:​ And you are shocked at the fact that, like, the immediate consequences
were like, a little more dramatic than a regular spell?
Kristin:​ Yeah. I will give you that point. But I do think that like, if you're going to
have three people in a circle with you and you know that, like, possibly you will be
tested by being like, cut or by throwing up a snake—
Jenny:​ Mm.
Kristin:​ Or anything like—she only told Tara. Like, that's what we learn. And she
didn't even tell Tara much, but she was just like, "I will be tested." She didn't even
tell Anya and Xander that she would be tested at all.
Jenny:​ Yeah. She could have been a little more transparent.
Kristin:​ [simultaneously] They could have accidentally dropped their candle. You
know what I mean? Like, you gotta prepare these people.


Jenny:​ I get the sense that Willow was not entirely sure if—whether or not this
casting would be beyond her. And that she didn't want anybody to come up with
any reasons for why she shouldn't do it.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ So. Buffy is continuing to walk around through the streets. She leans on a
car, sets off a car alarm. On a good day, that's very upsetting—
Kristin:​ Yeah, it's true.
Jenny:​ And on a bad day, when your ears were just underground for five months,
um, it's even worse. A guy comes out of the house with a shotgun!
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ I mean, it makes sense because it literally—the town is burning around him
and there are scary motorcycle demons everywhere. But…
Kristin:​ But also Buffy is very noticeably not a large motorcycle dude. You know?
Like, it is—like, I mean, I guess it's just supposed to be that he's such in a panic
that he doesn't—he's not even looking. He's just like, I hear my car alarm and
you're not getting in this house, I'm protecting it, but…
Jenny:​ Mmhmm, mmhmm. Well, hey, props to this guy for not underestimating a
tiny blond woman.
Kristin:​ [laughs] True. Good point. Um, hi, I would like to play a jingle for this
moment, where Spike walks out into the middle of the goddamn road. In his
fucking duster leather coat. And at full clip, knocks this fucking Hellion off of his
moving m
​ otorcycle. It is ​hot!​
[SPIKE jingle plays]
Spike! I love you
Spike! So dreamy
Spike! Your trench coat
Spike! I love you
Spike! Your black nails
Spike! Peroxide
Jenny:​ Question for what I can only imagine is our massive motorcycle enthusiast
listenership.


Kristin:​ Mmhmm.
Jenny:​ If a motorcycle was separated from its rider and then skidded across some
asphalt in this fashion, would it then, do you think—like, what are the chances that
it would still be in drivable shape? I'm just wondering. It seems like—you know.
Kristin:​ I think he took a risk, you know. I think he took a risk—
Jenny:​ Mmm.
Kristin:​ And it worked out for him in the end. I thought the same thing, but I
think—I think he knew. I think he knew this could go one of two ways. And luckily,
it went the way that he wanted it to. Because then we get to hear him say, "let's
fly, pidgeon!" What a line!
Jenny:​ Ahh! I love that even in these circumstances, he made sure to source a
helmet—
Kristin:​ I know!
Jenny:​ For Dawn.
Kristin:​ For Dawn!
Jenny:​ It's very cute.
Kristin:​ It's very cute. We also saw this moment of Spike and Dawn on the back
with the little fucking football helmet or whatever the hell it is on her head, in the
credits. That I was like, that's interesting that it's in the credits 'cause it doesn't
happen till the second episode. I realize now the error of my ways, of course. It was
given to you all in one helping.
Jenny:​ Yes, yes. It was also really nice. Before they made the run for the
motorcycle, it was great to see Spike watching the Hellions ride their motorcycles
across, like, somebody's porch and like, breaking windows and stuff. [Kristin
laughs] And he just like, gets this really wistful gleam in his eye. Like, he's like,
wow. That could be us. But… I made a promise to a dead girl. [both laugh] You
know?


Kristin:​ Yeah. Oh, Spike. So Anya, bringing the comedy, always. Literally, always
here to give us a slight chuckle or a giant laugh. The knock at the door, she
responds, "already been looted, sorry!" [laughs]
Jenny:​ Yeah. It's weird that, um… Xander, like, waits a long time to identify
himself.
Kristin:​ Yeah. He was—you know why? He knows—he knows his girlfriend, his
fiancée.
Jenny:​ Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin:​ He knows she needed time to get her punchline in. And then he's like, "it's
Xander!" [laughs]
Jenny:​ Yep, yep, yep, yep, yep. Very thoughtful. Very thoughtful.
[AD BREAK]
Jenny:​ Okay, so… the Scooby squad is mostly assembled. But Dawn and Spike are
not answering the phone. And Anya makes an incredible point.
Kristin:​ Yes.
Jenny:​ When it is suggested that they head back out into the fray. Giles is gone,
Spike is missing, Willow is looking pretty worse for the wear.
Kristin:​ Mmhmm.
Jenny:​ And Buffy is, they think, dead. So with what firepower exactly should they
be reentering the fray? One wonders.
Kristin:​ Yeah. I wrote that exact thing, Jenny. Anya, making great points. And like,
Xander kinda quips back at her to make her feel a bit stupid. And I'm like, dude,
seriously? Like, she is making all the sense. What—how are gonna fight? It's not
smart that they go back out. You know, and it all works… out at the end? It's
kinda—[both laugh] but it's not good that they go back out. I don't think. And the
other thing that I wanna talk about in this… [laughs] scene. Is that Xander has this
moment where he's like, bliggity-blah, NORAD, bliggity-blah, DEFCON 1. And
everybody looks at him and they're confused. And he makes this comment about
how he needs some more guy friends, which, womp-womp, patriarchy jingle, clap,
thunder, blah blah blah. But he then says, "I do really like this guy at work.


[laughing] He seems pretty great. His name's Tito." And I'm just like—I would like
to see it. I would like to see just a tiny little spinoff, a little mini-ep of Xander and
Tito, you know? Like, figuring out how to be—how to be pals. That's all.
Jenny:​ Yes! Tito and the Xand, it's got a zippy little theme tune—
Kristin:​ Tito—
Jenny:​ They—they—
Kristin:​ [sings] "T-t-t-tito and the Xand!"
Jenny:​ They're both wrapping up their day at the construction site. And then they
each have circuitous ways that they take to a shared apartment where they are
roommates. [Kristin laughs] And there are hijinks along the way, like a dog chases
Tito and Xander is walking by a fire hydrant and the cap pops off and he's like, oh
no, I got all wet. [Kristin laughs loudly] And then they finally arrive home, crack a
couple of beers, sit down on the couch together. And watch an episode of TV.
Kristin:​ [sings] "T-t-t-tito and the Xand!"
Jenny:​ Tito and the Xand. Yeah.
Kristin:​ Beautiful. Beautiful. I don't know why you subscribe to this podcast, but I
subscribe for live written fanfic by Jenny Owen Youngs. [laughs]
Jenny:​ I'm… here with a pitch. You know?
Kristin:​ Do you know that—I'm gonna regret saying this. But do you know that the
US has never been in DEFCON 1?
Jenny:​ What does it mean?
Kristin:​ Um, it's the level of readiness—it's like—there's a DEFCON 1 through 5, I
believe. It's the level of readiness for the US armed forces. I believe in the Cuban
missile crisis, we got to DEFCON 2. DEFCON 1 is the—basically the most—the most
ready we can be for attack, defense—
Jenny:​ Wow.
Kristin:​ Whatever you wanna call it.


Jenny:​ [sighs] Well, just keep knocking on that wood.
Kristin:​ I know, I like, wrote it in my notes and then was like, maybe you ​don't
wanna say that. Sorry everyone! [laughs]
Jenny:​ Soo…
Kristin:​ So!
Jenny:​ The Hellions are like, "our new home!" [Kristin laughs] And then one of
them breathes fire? Which is—they do, like, circus stuff.
Kristin:​ [laughing] Yeah.
Jenny:​ Actually, you know who breathes fire like this all the time? Is Xena Warrior
Princess. [Kristin laughs] Xena… did it first. Then they all jump up and they're like,
"hip-hip-hooray!" Like, with their arms in the air and shit. They really lose a lot of
cred for me in this scene, [Kristin laughs] while they're celebrating Sunnydale being
their new home. It just seems [laughs] a little tonally off.
Kristin:​ I didn't want to risk interrupting any of your Hellion impersonations. But,
um—
Jenny:​ [quietly] Hell…
Kristin:​ I am wondering—I've never seen Xena: Warrior Princess. And so—[Jenny
gasps twice] I—I know. Big reveal here, Buffering the Vampire Slayer. But I'm
wondering what you mean when you say Xena does this all the time. Is—does
she—does she do this trick?
Jenny:​ She's like—yeah, like—like, probably… five times in Season 1 alone. She's
always like, in a bar, being underestimated. Then she'll take a big swig of alcohol,
pull a torch off the wall—
Kristin:​ [laughing] No!
Jenny:​ And fucking spit fire into people's faces.
Kristin:​ What!
Jenny:​ ​And f​ or the first, like—I think for the first three or four seasons—


Kristin:​ I love this.
Jenny:​ Lucy Lawless was doing the stunt herself [Kristin gasps] and then after a
certain point, they were like, okay, we really need to start having a stuntie stand in
for you.
Kristin:​ Shut the front door!
Jenny:​ Yeah, that's right. Lucy Lawless also—there's a recent—an episode I saw
recently where she is in a sort of like, dungeon. And she's hog-tied and a sea of
rats pour in to where she's being held. And she, because she's Xena Warrior
Princess, fights them all off with her mouth. And there are like, multiple times
where she has a rat in her mouth and she's shaking them. And they are, like, real
dead rats and Lucy Lawless ​really​ had them in her mouth. Because she is very
serious.
Kristin:​ I don't know how I feel right now. I'm like, exactly down the middle
repulsed and turned on. It's like, a ​very​ weird feeling.
Jenny:​ I know.
Kristin:​ It's a lot.
Jenny:​ Also, Dana Scully—Gillian Anderson eats a bug on The X-Files, so. There's
that too. [Kristin laughs] There's a lot out there to have your day really brought to
a screeching halt by. [laughs]
Kristin:​ Wow. Wow. We started with women digging themselves out of graves, and
now we've got women fucking chewing on rats and eating bugs.
Jenny:​ Yes.
Kristin:​ All in a day's work here at Buffering the Vampire Slayer.
Jenny:​ Yes!
Kristin:​ Whew!
Jenny:​ Yes! Okay, so. Bad news for Buffybot.
Kristin:​ Yeah.


Jenny:​ When you—you know, when you move to—a housewarming. There's always
a housewarming when you move to a new place. And the only suitable
housewarming for these demons is, uh, quartering the Buffybot. And hey. I went to
Medieval Times a handful of times as a kid, and there was a special section where
you could pay, like, a dollar to go through. And it was just full of like, torture
devices.
Kristin:​ What?!
Jenny:​ Yeah. Yeah, there was like, the rack. And like, you know, that spiky cage.
Kristin:​ [whispers] Wow.
Jenny:​ And all that kind of business.
Kristin:​ Fun. For kids.
Jenny:​ I was like, really fixated on that when I was a child [laughs] for some
reason.
Kristin:​ Mmhmm.
Jenny:​ And one thing that I learned about—maybe adjacently or maybe in the
walk-through there with all the little informational plaques. So quartering, which
was part of the capital punishment visited upon treasoners—treasonists—
Kristin:​ Treasoners!
Jenny:​ Those who committed treason. [Kristin laughs] In England, starting around
1283, it was performed much like what we see here, except with horses instead of…
Kristin:​ Mmm.
Jenny:​ Motorcycles.
Kristin:​ How much horsepower ​does​ a motorcycle have?
Jenny:​ I'm gonna leave that for our listenership. Please write in at
bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com, let us know how much horsepower a
motorcycle has, thank you.


Kristin:​ [laughs] I thought it was quite interesting, actually. I wouldn't have
thought of this if it wasn't for our conversation on Osiris in last episode. But I
thought it was quite interesting that Osiris was the god called upon to resurrect
Buffy and that we learned that Osiris himself was dismembered. And that we see
the Buffybot dismembered. I'm sure it was—
Jenny:​ Noo!
Kristin:​ I doubt that it was intentional, but I just thought, like—I was thinking
about you, Jenny, making your joke about like, find yourself a girl who will find all
the parts of you [laughs] and put them back together and resurrect you.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ And so I just thought it was interesting.
Jenny:​ I live by that motto.
Kristin:​ The real devastation—I mean. Whatever. There's devastat—it's Season 6.
Pick a direction and look in it, there'll be devastation. But this is awful because, as I
mentioned earlier, Buffy herself is looking at the Buffybot. Buffybot is looking at
Buffy, the moment that this happens. And so, I mean, what the fuck?
Jenny:​ And the worst thing, I think, is that she yells "Buffy." But you can't hear it
at all.
Kristin:​ Right.
Jenny:​ But like, it's very clear that—by the motion of her mouth that she's calling
to Buffy. Ugh!
Kristin:​ Ugh. Really—not okay. Buffy runs. Like I would or any of us would, I'm
sure, facing a similar situation.
Jenny:​ Sure.
Kristin:​ This is where the bikers are very polite. [British accent] "So sorry that I
knocked you off your bike, sir."
Jenny:​ [British accent] "Pardon me, pardon me, yes, quite."


Kristin:​ "Pardon me!" [laughs] And then we get to this sort of like, alley scene.
This is where the fight between the Hellions and the Scoobies is gonna happen. And
Tara, making, you know, a point—this is a very like, Kristin Russo kind of a point.
Maybe—maybe it didn't work 'cause it wasn't supposed to. Maybe we should
consider that it wasn't supposed to work. Well, maybe you're right, Tara, and
maybe you're not. But. In walks Buffy.
Jenny:​ Ba-ba-baaa! Was that… dramatic enough?
Kristin:​ Yeah, yeah. That's definitely the music cue, I think, that could be put right
in the show. It would add up.
Jenny:​ Bad sign that Tara says, maybe the fates, you know—
Kristin:​ Mmhmm.
Jenny:​ Sent this destruction to like, prevent this. And Willow interprets that as, "so
this is my fault?!"
Kristin:​ Mmhmm.
Jenny:​ Not… great.
Kristin:​ Yeah, Willow is… Willow's really… going through something. We'll just say
that.
Jenny:​ Also, before Buffy—right before Buffy drops down, [laughing] Anya's like,
arguing with Xander. [Kristin laughs] Like, "maybe now is a great time to announce
our engagement 'cause everyone seems like they could really use a pick-me-up.
Especially Willow." [both laugh]
Kristin:​ Oh my god, Anya. Like, bless her. This joke of like—I mean, she literally,
in the next moment where like, Buffy is fully traumatized, cannot talk, and they're
like, what do we do? Anya's like, Buffy! I have something to tell you! Something
great has happened.
Jenny:​ Yeah, incredible news.
Kristin:​ So, um. Yeah. They realize in this moment—because they sort of like, call
to her, she runs away. And she doesn't even, like, run away. She just like, runs up
against the wall, which is really—


Jenny:​ Yeah…
Kristin:​ Very upsetting to see. She like, doesn't—ugh, god! She just, like—she
doesn't know what to do with herself. She doesn't know, like, how to escape this.
And they realize, in this moment, that of course the spell did work. And that
perhaps, before even doing the spell, they should have considered digging the
coffin up. Because if it had worked—
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ What was their plan if it had worked anyway? You know, like—
Jenny:​ I think they were just expecting her to like, rematerialize—
Kristin:​ In front of them.
Jenny:​ With them, yeah.
Kristin:​ Right. Right. Right, right.
Jenny:​ Also, everyone, for some reason, is like, kinda yell-talking. Like, thinking
that she can't hear them, which… [laughing]
Kristin:​ Which is—
Jenny:​ I feel like is a bad tactic.
Kristin:​ But it is true.
Jenny:​ Well, sort of. But it's like—I know she's like, getting her senses back to
their full capacity, but like—
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ I just… yelling is not the answer.
Kristin:​ In general, this is a very rough transition for Buffy. Who would have had
had a very rough transition anyway. But she sort of is like, dig—dug… she's
dig-dugged herself out of her grave, directly into a Hellion fight with her town on
fire and her friends in all sorts of disarray. And they, you know, say, "you're home
now. We brought you back." It's not the last time we will hear people saying that
Buffy is home now. And then of course, the Hellions are like, "party town!"


Jenny:​ Tara does a fireball thing and Razor just seems like, very high. His reaction
is just like, [whispers] "Oh… [Kristin laughs] yeah…" [laughs]
Kristin:​ Yeah, they're like—you know. Per Anya's last email, they probably should
not have left. [laughs] Because they really are not working with a lot of firepower,
even with Buffy now alive. Because Buffy has no idea where the fuck she is. Xander
is, you know, posturing, "I happen to be a very powerful man-witch myself!" And
we get a little, like—
Jenny:​ Yes!
Kristin:​ Comedy. Which is nice. Also, did you check out Anya? Who, last episode,
told everybody that they didn't know anything about zombies, using her own—
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ Mis-knowledge to try to scare Razor.
Jenny:​ Yep, yep.
Kristin:​ She's like, ahh, this Slayer might wanna eat some brains here. [laughs]
Jenny:​ Yep, yep, yep-yep-yep-yep. And then, you know, Willow's like, I got magic.
And Razor's like, what're you gonna do? Pull a rabbit out of a hat? [Kristin laughs]
And Anya is ​horrified​!
Kristin:​ "Why would she do that?!"
Jenny:​ Why would you do that? [both laugh]
Kristin:​ Oh, god. You hear us, we laugh, you know, because we must. Because if
we don't, what else will there be?
Jenny:​ We shall cry.
Kristin:​ This is—I'm not even gonna—like, I'm not gonna discuss the thing that the
Hellion says to them here. But this—
Jenny:​ Ugh!


Kristin:​ Really, really upsetting. And sort of like, ties into that first line, where
we're like, okay. So we've moved to the UPN. But also, what else is going on in this
season right now? 'Cause it's just feeling, um—that—the—what the Hellions say to
them about what they're going to do to them is something that, like, I feel we have
not really ever heard in so direct a way in this entire show so far.
Jenny:​ Ugh, no.
Kristin:​ And I—
Jenny:​ I don't know if I've ever heard anything so heinous on, like, a network
show.
Kristin:​ It's pretty fucking bad and I would like to, uh, not have it. I would like for
it to be gone, so thank you.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ Anyway. Buffy does something really cool. I don't know if there's a name
for this move. But she catches the Hellion's fist in her palm—
Jenny:​ Mmm! Yes.
Kristin:​ And pushes it back. Hot! Love that move.
Jenny:​ Hell yeah! Yeah. She kicks the crap outta this guy. And then there's a
moment where everyone's like, so… we… knocked Razor down, does that mean the
fight is over? It is not. Scoobies and motorcycle club clash. Cool jackets, everybody.
I wish I could be in a motorcycle club for the cool jackets, but without [Kristin
laughs] responsibilities. Or, um, having to ride a motorcycle.
Kristin:​ Mm.
Jenny:​ That would be great.
Kristin:​ So you just wanna buy a jacket?
Jenny:​ Can somebody please start a no-motorcycle motorcycle club that I can join?
Thank you. [both laugh] The no-motorcycle motorcycle club, which of course, in our
clubhouse, we prominently display large photographs of clothed nudes. [Kristin
laughs] Clothed nudes exclusively decorate the no-motorcycle motorcycle club
clubhouse.


Kristin:​ I'm telling you what. I would like to have a no-motorcycle motorcycle club
jacket, now that you've done all that yammering about, Jenny Owen Youngs.
Jenny:​ Yammering about?
Kristin:​ Positive yammering.
Jenny:​ Mm.
Kristin:​ I'm reclaiming the word "yammering." I'm making it positive.
Jenny:​ Okay… [both laugh]
Kristin:​ Okay. So. Dawn finds the Buffybot. Dawn, I love you. Dawn, you're
perfect. [laughs] Dawn… I was trying to remember the Cordelia lyrics. But—
Jenny:​ Mmm. Uh-huh.
Kristin:​ I really fucking love Dawn. And this girl has been through so fucking much
already. Now she's, like, down with the Buffybot. And you know what? Like,
probably a lot of people would have thought that like, okay, the Buffybot has been
dismembered and probably is just speaking nonsense. Dawn like, knows enough
about the Buffybot, I posit, that she understands what the fuck she's saying.
Jenny:​ Yes.
Kristin:​ And puts it all together in her little Dawn head!
Jenny:​ Yes. Totally. Also, the Buffybot says "Dawn" a bunch of times here. Which I
thought was interesting—
Kristin:​ Mm.
Jenny:​ Because when April the robot was powering down for the last time—
Kristin:​ Mmm! [gasps]
Jenny:​ The last thing she said was "it's always darkest before…"
Kristin:​ I got fully-body chills. I'm sorry, I had to pause—


Jenny:​ Mmm.
Kristin:​ Just pause and let the chills wash over me.
Jenny:​ Sure.
Kristin:​ Yeah. "My—you're my sister, Dawn." And then, you know, the way that
they write the Buffybot's line, I just think is really powerful. Like, she's saying,
"where did I go? I was here, but then I ran away."
Jenny:​ Ah!
Kristin:​ "Not me, the other Buffy." Like, where did I go? 'Cause at first—and it is a
misdirect, 'cause when you first hear her say "where did I go?" you just think that
she's like, powering down. It's just really beautiful.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ I'm sad to see the Buffybot go. I really—
Jenny:​ [inaudible] the Buffybot.
Kristin:​ Rest in peace, Buffybot. You saved the world a little. You know? Can we
get her a little—
Jenny:​ Yeah!
Kristin:​ [laughing] Can we get her a little headstone? And Dawn runs. And she
doesn't know where the fuck she's running, but she runs. And back in the alley,
Tara, again, why were you concerned? There's so many. Buffy has a bloody lip. And
Xander is like, you know, she's Buffy. She's back again, she's fighting. And Buffy is
like, no, I'm not okay at all. And she runs as well. So now Dawn and Buffy both
running, where possibly will they run to?
Jenny:​ I know where they might be headed. I know where they might go. That
rickety-ass tower.
Kristin:​ Yeah. I learned a couple of things. I learned that some of the scenes shot
on the tower, whether—probably most of them in The Gift, but maybe some
here—was scaffolding built around an oil rig.
Jenny:​ Oh!


Kristin:​ Which is pretty cool. And then the entirety of the scene we see on the
tower between Dawn and Buffy is a—it's built on the stage with hydraulics. So it's
actually—
Jenny:​ Ooh!
Kristin:​ Moving. And the background of the city is like a—I don't remember what
they call it. But it's like a massive photograph that has lights coming from behind it.
So it looks like—
Jenny:​ Oh, cool.
Kristin:​ Yeah. So I thought that was very fun. But anyway, yes. A rickety tower,
they are headed there. While Willow obfuscates—obs—obfis—[stumbles over the
word]
Jenny:​ Obfuscates?
Kristin:​ [keeps stumbling over the word]
Jenny:​ [slower] Obfuscates. [Kristin laughs] Ob. Fu. Scates.
Kristin:​ Ob. Fu. Scates. A demon.
Jenny:​ Nice. [both laugh] She freezes Razor's razors. And then they go—they
shatter.
Kristin:​ Yeah, that's cool. That's pretty cool. Good tricks. Willow's got some good
tricks in her bag.
Jenny:​ But then—you know, his retribution for losing his little razors is choking
Willow, but—[Kristin gasps] never… choke a… witch's girlfriend [Kristin laughs]
when there's an ax nearby! That the old—as the old adage goes. [laughs]
Kristin:​ Yes, yes, of course. Sorry to bring Marti Noxon into this one more time.
But one of my fav—my favorite moment of the little bit of the director's cut that I
saw, is Marti Noxon is like, yeah, this is like, where we make Tara butch. And then
she goes, no, no, I mean, that's the wrong way to say it. We just blah-blah-blah.
And I'm like, no, Marti. That is the ​correct—
Jenny:​ Own it, Marti!


Kristin:​ [laughs] You actually nailed it on first pass. Tara is like, straight-up—she's
like, killed—and I guess she had spoken to one of the Davids about how, very
similar to Cordelia, she really doesn't get to kill a lot of demons, you know? And so
she gets her moment here. She fucking axes the Hellion into oblivion. And she says,
"nobody messes with my girl."
Jenny:​ That's right. That's right! Meanwhile. Buffy is up on the tower. And as an
avid fan of the show Buffy the Vampire Slayer, she is reliving the finale of series
[sic] 5, mouthing along her lines. [Kristin laughs] Doing a whole bit. Something that
is hilarious about this scene to me is that if you watch it on Hulu with the, you
know, modern aspect ratio. Every time Buffy looks down, you see Dawn in red all
the way at the left of the screen, walking in the same line. I think you see it… three
times? But two of the—at least two of those times are when Dawn is up on top of
the tower with Buffy. They just got one overhead shot and reused it multiple times.
Kristin:​ Oh. I watched the DVD so I didn't get to see that, but I will gladly go back
and find tiny Dawn walking down there.
Jenny:​ Check it out.
Kristin:​ [laughs] Yeah, so this is pretty intense. [Jenny exhales] There is an
obvious inversion of what we saw on The Gift. Where at the end of The Gift, of
course, Buffy says "live for me." And here we're seeing Dawn saying to Buffy, "live
for me." Very intense situation, very—I think a very good job done here by Michelle
Trachtenberg in this scene. And sort of like, conveying the fact that she's very small
and she misses her sister and she needs her to say.
Jenny:​ Ugh! Yeah.
Kristin:​ And you can see—I think what I like about Michelle Trachtenberg's
performance or, you know, the lines written for Dawn or the combination therein is
that it seems that Dawn is very self-aware of the fact that she's asking for
something for herself. She is under no impression that she's asking for Buffy to stay
to be with her for Buffy's sake. She's very much aware that, like, she needs her and
she's just pleading with her. Please, don't go again, I can't believe that you're back,
I don't know how it happened. But you're here, please stay with me. And Buffy—I
mean, we don't really know what's going on with Buffy. But the very first words
that she speaks are, "is this hell?"
Jenny:​ [exhales, laughs] Buffy is like, literally all of us to real life in 2020.


Kristin:​ I know. I was gonna say, literally, #2020.
Jenny:​ Is ​this h
​ ell?
Kristin:​ [laughs] Is this… so this seems to be hell. Am I correct or incorrect? And
you know—
Jenny:​ Yeah. I—all the telltale—hell-tale signs are here.
Kristin:​ [laughs] Dawn's like, I cannot confirm nor deny, but it is home. And we're
like, okay! [both laugh]
Jenny:​ Sounds right.
Kristin:​ Could be hell, but it's also home. And you know, ultimately the thing that
gets Buffy to turn, again, in a replay of the end of The Gift, is that the tower is
about to fall and she wants to save Dawn. [laughing] I would like to just gently
remind us of the IMDB description. "Buffy climbs out of her own grave to save her
friends." [both laugh] Okay. Cool. [both laugh] Yeah, and I—you know,
obviously—or I would assume obviously at this point, we're gonna learn more. And
sometimes it's hard for us to—I think—have these conversations without spoilers.
This is like, one of those moments where, you know, I have more that I wanna say.
But I need to get more information before I can say it. And I believe we will learn
more and I think at this point, it is very hard to know what is happening here, apart
from that we have a very confused and very traumatized Buffy. And that the
tower… good job on that tower, standing for three fucking months! Great work.
Great work!
Jenny:​ Five months, actually.
Kristin:​ Five months! Oh my.
Jenny:​ Yeah. So. Once this tower really starts to come apart and debris starts to
fall, Buffy snaps into protect-o mode. She snaps back into—
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ Some semblance of Buffy-ness.
Kristin:​ Yeah.


Jenny:​ They ride a winch halfway down. [imitating Olaf] "It was just one winch!"
[Kristin laughs] Then they fall the rest of the way. Then, the entire tower collapses!
Kristin:​ You are… such a wonderful asshole. [laughs]
Jenny:​ Thank you!
Kristin:​ [laughing] "It was just one winch." She wrote in her notes, getting more
and more excited to reach the moment [both laughing] when she would deliver the
joke unto thy—unto thy ears.
Jenny:​ What—what, are you gonna roast me for caring about the quality of my
performance here? [both laugh] The hell?
Kristin:​ I'll tell you what. Why don't we go from just one winch over into the
Sexual fucking Tension Awards?
[SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays]
Sexual tension award!
Jenny:​ Well! Well, well, well, well, well, well! It's time for the Sexual Tension
Awards. And we have… some very exciting nominees for you. I can guarantee that
every single slot in the noms has—
Kristin:​ Ugh!
Jenny:​ Has a name that starts with T and is four letters long. In—
Kristin:​ "Slot in the noms" is very… upsetting.
Jenny:​ [laughing] In the first slot in the noms. [both laugh]
Kristin:​ Wow!
Jenny:​ In the first slot in the noms—
Kristin:​ C'mon!
Jenny:​ He seems like such a cool guy. And, uh, he always wears really nice
coveralls while he's doing construction. It's—


Kristin:​ [laughing] It's like, I wrote these and I don't even know who the ​fuck
you're talking about! [both laugh]
Jenny:​ It's Tito! [Kristin laughs] And Xander, of course. Xander wants to get to
know Tito a little bit better.
Kristin:​ [sings] "T-t-t-tito and the Xand!"
Jenny:​ [clears throat] Two contractors, measure twice and cut once, 1080P HD.
[both laugh] In the second slot for noms, we've got… [laughs]
Kristin:​ Oh, god.
Jenny:​ Tara and Anya, as they hide behind a rock together.
Kristin:​ Yeahhh!
Jenny:​ Crouched intimately. In the third slot for noms, we've got Tara and Anya as
Tara strokes Anya's hair. [Kristin laughs] So familiarly. And in the fourth slot for
noms, we've got… Tara and Willow! As Tara—​butchly—
​ axes a demon in the back.
And you know, when we say butchly, we mean it in the, uh, Brittany Ashley, Laura
Zak butch-off—
Kristin:​ It's an energy.
Jenny:​ Sensibility.
Kristin:​ It's an energy.
Jenny:​ Yeah, it's an energy. It's not limited to presentation.
Kristin:​ Mmhmm.
Jenny:​ And look at her go. So if you'd like to be a part of slotting in these
noms—[laughs]
Kristin:​ I—! [Jenny laughs] I, like, tried so hard to like, be the—like, to parent this
situation by ignoring it the last three times. And it didn't work. [both laugh]
Jenny:​ Go ahead and slot in your nom at our—on our Twitter poll, @BufferingCast.
[laughs] The Sexual Tension Award poll will be up for one week. Thanks a lot! Yay,
democracy!


[SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays]
Sexual tension award!
Kristin:​ Ohhh-kay! Guess what? It's Season 6 and it's harder and harder and
harder to [laughs] figure out how to nominate people for Sexual Tension Awards.
But we will always—
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ Bring you…
Jenny:​ Slots. And noms!
Kristin:​ Ohh-kay.
Jenny:​ So!
Kristin:​ So down—so the pulley—the pulley is like [makes long squeak sound].
[Jenny laughs] And then the fucking screw is like [makes screech sound] and then
they drop. [both laughing] And then they got close enough to the ground for like, it
to be okay that they drop the rest of the way. And they fall on, like, some drywall
or whatever. [Jenny laughs] And then the tower comes crashing and Buffy rolls
them away. It's very Indiana Jones for the last, like, moment here.
Jenny:​ Yep. Yep.
Kristin:​ And then they hug. And I think, in—the moment that got me the most was
this last one. Which I guess is probably the way you want it to work on television.
[laughs] But Dawn hugs Buffy and she's just saying "you're home." And her
squeaky little Dawn voice, you know? "You're home." And Buffy, over Dawn's
shoulder, is sort of like…
Jenny:​ She does not know—she looks like, "doesn't look like anything to me."
That's how she is receiving this information.
Kristin:​ [laughs] Exactly, exactly. So this is how, on October 2nd? 2001, is that
right? Was it the 2nd of October?
Jenny:​ Yes. Oh, yes.


Kristin:​ That is how you ended your evening. We're taping this on October 7th, so
it's not even that far away. You—
Jenny:​ Oh, wow.
Kristin:​ Yeah. It's rare for us to line up. We have holidays in all the wrong places
here at Buffering the Vampire Slayer. [Jenny laughs] But hey. We've hit October,
bingo. October Yahtzee, here in Buffering land. [Jenny laughs] So that's another
episode. Hey, we've done two, Jenny.
Jenny:​ Yay!
Kristin:​ Only 20 more to go! [laughs]
Jenny:​ Hey! And then 22 after that. Hey!
Kristin:​ Oh! And then we'll start at the beginning again!
Jenny:​ Yay! [Kristin laughs] Well! [both sigh] I'm Jenny Owen Youngs. And, you
know, in addition to making this podcast, I make a podcast called Veronica Mars
Investigations. And I also write and release songs. You can learn more about me
and those songs at jennyowenyoungs.com. I will tell you that I just put out an
extended version of my EP Night Shift, featuring some new remixes and a Teenage
Dream cover. Also, just released a new music video for my song Vampire
Weeknight. Which is a very, very cool animated video that I am so excited about.
You can find that in the places where people post videos. And hey. If you wanna
talk to me about slots and noms, you can always—
Kristin:​ Noo.
Jenny:​ Tweet @JennyOwenYoungs. Thanks!
Kristin:​ You know, I hope that you get all the tweets about slots and fucking noms.
And then you regret your decision.
Jenny:​ Okay, question for you, Kristin. Nick Lachey, slot or nom?
Kristin:​ Nom.
Jenny:​ Nick Carter. Slot or nom?
Kristin:​ Slot.


Jenny:​ Correct. [both laughing] Such a correct ans—set of answers.
Kristin:​ I am Kristin Russo. You can learn all about what I do, which is battle Jenny
Owen Youngs for control over the language used in this podcast [Jenny laughs] on
my website, kristinnoeline.com. That's K-R-I-S-T-I-N-N-O-E-L-I-N-E. You can use
that spelling to find me on Twitter and on Instagram. Please don't talk to me about
these words in those places, if you care about me at all. Also, Jenny, I asked you to
submit a biography for our website, bufferingthevampireslayer.com, very recently.
And you didn't, and so I made up my own bio and you should just go fucking look
at it yourself right now. Because that's what you get.
Jenny:​ [laughing] What the hell?!
Kristin:​ For not doing your homework.
Jenny:​ I… really did start writing it last night. It's just not done yet. But let me see
what you've… ​slotted ​in. [laughs] Let me see what you've ​nommed​ as my bio.
[both laugh] Okay. [clears throat] Ah, "Jenny Owen Youngs is a professional
musician and recreational Whedon-verse aficionado. [laughing] She did not submit
her bio as asked, so Kristin is writing the rest of this for now. She likes to write
songs while washing the dishes and has a dog named Frank and once, she left
[laughing] Kristin in the woods with an angry bear." It's all true! [both laugh] It's all
true.
Kristin:​ Anyway, Jenny. Apart from bufferingthevampireslayer.com where they can
find your glorious bio written by me, where else can they find us?
Jenny:​ Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram
@BufferingCast, or drop us an email at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com. You
can also leave us a voicemail at 216-30-BUFFY.
Kristin:​ Hell yeah. You can support the work that we do here in a few places. You
can support Buffering the Vampire Slayer on Patreon at patreon.com/bufferingcast.
You can find that, of course, on our website, bufferingthevampireslayer.com. You
can also now learn about LaToya Ferguson, hosting Angel On Top, on that same
site, bufferingthevampireslayer.com. And if you go to angelontop.com, it'll take you
to the Angel On Top Patreon page, where you can support LaToya directly. We hope
that you enjoyed last week's premiere episode of Angel On Top. We know we had a
fucking delight making it and are so stoked—
Jenny:​ Oh, hell yeah!


Kristin:​ So fucking stoked that LaToya is here. We're gonna learn so much this
season about Angel and The W-W-WB.
Jenny:​ Ha!
Kristin:​ [laughs] You can also—hey! We have new merch. We have t-shirts—
Jenny:​ What!
Kristin:​ That say Burn It Down, designed by A. Andrews. We have a Sleepaway
Witch Camp pullover sweatshirt for when you need to get cozy with the girl that's
dating that guy that Anya and Tara—you get it. It's fine. Just go get the sweatshirt.
Jenny:​ [laughs] Wow.
Kristin:​ You can find all of our merch [laughs] at bufferingthevampireslayer.com.
Just click on Shop, we have a US-based store and a European store as well. So
yeah. Go to those places, check out those things. And hey, if you want, you can
always rate and review us on iTunes or elsewhere. We love it. We love to hear from
you.
Jenny:​ [laughs] "Or elsewhere." In your journal. Whatever.
Kristin:​ [laughs] Yeah. Yeah, in your diary. You know, text your friends. [laughs]
Jenny:​ Yeah! And, you know. Till next time…
Both: ​Awwwwoooooooooooo!
Jenny: ​[whispers] Slots and noms!
[​“Bargaining Part Two” plays off the album Songs from Season 6 by Buffering
the Vampire Slayer]
I hit the streets every night
My sacred calling’s to bring the fight
To vampires and demons
So says my programming
The curtain fell, I was done
But there’s no choice for the chosen one


Seems I’ll forever be
Scouring cemeteries
And all my living friends
Are trying to pretend I’m real
When they look at me
All that they can see
Is somebody who was long gone
When they look at me
All that they can see
Is somebody who it hurt to miss
Dug my way up through the dirt
Clawing and climbing for all I’m worth
Up to a burning world
My vision dimmed and blurred
Night stretches endlessly on
Don’t know if I’ll ever see the dawn
Keep fighting, keep breathing
So says my programming
For my living friends
I’m trying to pretend I’m real
When I look at me
All that I can see
Is somebody who is long gone
When I look at me
All that I can see
Is somebody who it hurts to miss
I gave what I had to give
Gave you my only gift
I let go but
You, you never did


