Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 4.05: Beer Bad
Jenny:​ Hey!
Kristin:​ Hello!
Jenny: ​It's me, Jenny.
Kristin:​ Ooh, I squeaked.
Kristin:​ You did.
Jenny:​ I did.
Kristin: ​It's me, Kristin.
Jenny:​ Great, great, great; we're both here, obviously. Okay, fantastic. Holy
crap—we are about to take you to New York City for our live taping of “Beer Bad” at
Littlefield in Brooklyn. We have ​Autostraddle ​senior editor and feminist beer guru,
Heather Hogan; ​Buzzfeed​'s deputy arts and entertainment editor and “Beer Bad”
nemesis, Louis Peitzman; and professional gay person and cohost of WNYC’s ​Nancy
podcast, Kathy Tu ​all ​joining us to talk about beer and hating Parker in just a few
short moments. Get pumped. Before we get there, here's a few things of note:
Kristin:​ Yes, first of all, we have a ton of new things happening in the land of
Patreon. First of all, this Saturday, we will be posting a thread in the Patreon
Facebook group, and we will be choosing fifteen of you for pretty awesome
giveaway packages.
We have Buffy and Faith pops. We have ​Buffering​ T-shirts. We have “Randy for
Giles” pins. We have handwritten lyric sheets, we have vampyr journals. We have a
ton of really awesome shit, some of which we created and much of which you have
sent to us to give away to other people. So that's what we're going to do. So
heads-up, patrons: You can get yourselves in that Facebook group by Saturday so
that you can get into that little thread, enter yourselves to win, yada, yada, yada.
Jenny:​ We also created a new level on Patreon—the ultimate Scooby level, where
subscribers will be getting four exclusive T-shirt designs and also four exclusive
enamel pins every year. That's one pin and one shirt per quarter.
Kristin: ​If you're an accountant.


Jenny:​ Yeah [laughs]. You want to do some Hellmath; it's a little quick division.
First up, we've got a “Giles in the Streets, Ripper in the Sheets” T. You're welcome
in advance, and a vote for your choice of enamel pin. The first exclusive merge
shipments will go out in September. For the time being, this level is limited to
subscribers with US mailing addresses, but don't worry, overseas Scoobys—we will
be working on a way to let you into that level too. Hell yeah.
Kristin:​ Speaking of overseas—holy shit, holy shit. We will be heading to London
[Jenny shrieks] this November slash December.
Jenny: ​Jolly old London.
Kristin:​ Yes.
Jenny: ​Wait, can I show you my, um, Great Britain accent?
Kristin:​ Oh, I'm sure that all of Great Britain would love to hear.
Jenny:​ Right? Okay, so if you're from just regular old England or jolly old England,
I guess, you could say like, “literally” [in English accent].
Kristin: ​Great!
Jenny:​ Right? Okay. And then if you're Scottish, you could say like, “Great” [in
Scottish accent], right? [Kristin laughs] And then if you're Adele, you can say,
“Thank you!” [in Adele’s accent]. [Kristin laughs] How did I do?
Kristin:​ You did really good.
Jenny:​ I hope I didn't offend anyone.
Kristin:​ Yeah, except for Adele.
Jenny: ​Well, yeah. She's fine.
Kristin:​ She can handle it. Yeah, we're coming to London so that Jenny can add to
her repertoire.
Jenny:​ I need regional accents. [laughing]
Kristin: ​We're going to be going to the Vampire Ball put on by Starfury
Conventions. We will be there with James ​fucking​ Marsters.


Jenny: ​Oh, my god.
Kristin: ​Not to mention, a whole heaping scoop of other incredible cast members.
Did we mention, ​holy shit​? All the details can be found on our event page at
bufferingthevampireslayer.com. Just click on “Calendar,” and scroll on over to the
November, December area. You will see all of the details. Holy shit; we're going to
play Spike’s jingle for him. It's all I'm saying.
Jenny:​ I'm already ready to be breathing into a paper bag. [Kristin laughs] Okay,
just a few more things! We have a limited run of the “Beer Bad” koozies that were
sold in New York City, which will be up in our store through July 25th. If you don't
grab one by July 25th, they shall be gone ​forever​. And you can't say that we didn't
warn you. We also have a brand-new crop tank with our Girl Gang Slayers design
up in the store. Now, go get it! Bufferingthevampireslayer.com and click on “Shop.”
Kristin: ​Yes! Our last note: I just want to let you know, we referenced the T-shirts
that we are wearing several times in this episode very rudely, because you can't
see​ us and you weren't ​at​ the live taping.
Jenny:​ Oh yeah; sorry about that.
Kristin: ​So just in case you missed our social media posts, I made T-shirts for
Jenny and I. Mine said “Fuck Off, Parker,” of course.
Jenny: ​And mine said, “I Love Hunks!”
Kristin: ​Yeah, so now you have all the information you need to carry with you into
this—
Jenny:​ ​Beautiful​— [emphatically]
Kristin:​ Our biggest live taping to-date. Let's go, Jenny.
Jenny: ​Totally.
[​Buffering the Vampire Slayer ​theme plays]
[applause and cheers]
Jenny:​ Hello!
Kristin:​ Holy shit!


Jenny: ​Wow, looky here!
Kristin:​ Wow, wow, wow. [audience cheers continue]
Jenny:​ Good gravy; there’s a lot of you. [laughter]
Kristin:​ Yeah, there's a lot of heads. You have a lot of heads, you know that?
Jenny: ​There's definitely a lot of like DNA in the air co-mingling, wafting—science.
Kristin: ​I have a bone to pick with all of you. I know. I wanted to start us on a
good foot, you know? But here's the thing: The credits were playing, and Jenny
came up and everybody cheered, and I came up and everyone cheered. And our
guests came up… ​Faith and Buffy were dancing together​ [laughter] and ​none​ of you
all cheered! So—
Jenny:​ I think for a lot of people, that's a private moment, actually. [laughter] A
special time in a young person's life when Buffy and Faith are dancing at The
Bronze. Leave them alone, Mom! I'm busy in here! [laughter]
Kristin:​ Noted, noted. Solid point, Jenny. Thank you. I stand corrected; you're all
doing beautiful. I didn't mean to interrupt. [laughter] Wow. Oh, yeah—I made us
shirts! [audience cheers]
Jenny: ​Great job, Kristin.
Kristin:​ Originally, Jenny's was going to say “Boys Smell Nice” from the episode,
but she wanted—
Jenny:​ I wanted something I could wear every day! [laughter]
Kristin:​ So, yeah, I ironed these decals on just earlier today. [Jenny laughs]
Actually, using a friend's iron who's in the audience right now. Rachel, thank you for
your iron.
Jenny: ​Oh yeah, shout-out to Rachel’s iron.
Kristin: ​Actually, I don't know, it might be a shared Maddie-and-Rachel iron.
Jenny:​ That’s definitely the most attention that iron’s ever gotten. [laughter]
Kristin: ​Um, so we're really happy to be in New York City. [audience cheers]


Jenny:​ Yes, we are!
Kristin:​ Don't tell anyone, but this is our ​favorite​ city. [audience cheers] Oh, did I
speak for you? It’s ​my ​favorite city.
Jenny:​ No, it's my favorite city too. And you know, we have to publish this and
then people from other places will hear it, right?
Kristin: ​Yeah. Oh God, Philadelphia is going to be fucking pissed. [laughter] Philly,
we love you too. You're so close. You're like the sixth borough, right?
Jenny:​ Uh-huh.
Kristin:​ No, the audience hated it! They don’t like you! [audience boos] Oh god,
I'm digging myself deeper and deeper. But the last time we did a live event, I think
was the live event where I was like, “What's the lady with the hand-glove?” What’s
her name?
Jenny:​ Um... Yup. What's her name?
[audience shouts “​Gwendolyn Post!”]
Jenny:​ Yes, there it is.
Kristin: ​Yeah, I compared her to Her—you know, don't do it again. Okay, yeah;
you’re right. [laughter]
Jenny: ​Nobody likes that.
Kristin:​ Nobody likes it. I always find a way, you know? So, Jenny,
Jenny: ​Kristin,
Kristin:​ Do you want to talk about an epi—
Jenny:​ ​Hello! ​And welcome [cheers] to ​Buffering the Vampire Slayer p
​ odcast,
where we are watching and discussing every episode of ​Buffy the Vampire Slayer
one at a time, in chronological order, spoiler-free. Even this one. I'm Jenny Owen
Youngs.
Kristin:​ And I'm Kristin Russo, and I don't have my first page of notes is something
I'm realizing now. Hold on, let's see. Don’t worry; we'll edit this out in post.
[laughter] Yeah, I must be missing a whole—oh no, I just—these are ​old​ notes.


Jenny:​ What?
Kristin:​ You printed my old notes, ​Jenny​, but I think I can remember what I say.
Let's see: I'm Kristin Russo. And this week, we're talking about Season 4, Episode
4, “Beer Bad.” [cheers] Do you all really feel that way? Do you? Are you excited
about “Beer Bad”? [mixed audience reaction]
Okay, cheer if this is an episode you love. [cheers] Cheer if this is an episode you
despise. [louder cheers]
Anyway, you can stay tuned at the end of the episode every week for an original
song written by us, recapping the ​Buffy​ episode we are discussing. Here you go,
Jenny.
Jenny:​ I can't believe you don't have that memorized.
Kristin: ​I get nervous. I used to be an actor. I don't know how I did it. I can never
remember anything. I can't even remember people's names.
Jenny: ​I'm sorry I printed your sides wrong.
Kristin: ​I’m gonna look up the IMDB description while you do this first.
Jenny:​ Hmm, you know, I remember from when I was printing your notes that the
IMDB description was like, “This episode, starring Sarah Michelle Gellar, Alyson
Hannigan…”
Kristin:​ It does! [laughter]
Jenny: ​“Beer Bad,” of course, was written by Tracey Forbes and directed by David
Solomon and originally aired on November 2nd, 1999—just twenty days before I
turned 18. [laughter]
Kristin:​ Aw, you're about to be able to buy cigarettes and porn.
Jenny: ​Uh-huh [laughing].
Kristin:​ What did you do when you turned 18? Did you do anything rebellious?
Jenny: ​I don't remember [laughter], but probably not.
Kristin:​ Do you know where I was when I turned 18?


Jenny: ​In Philly…
Kristin: ​Uh-huh. Oh wow.
Jenny: ​Doing mushrooms, getting your eyebrow pierced, and eating—um, what do
they make in Philly?—uh, cheesesteak.
Kristin: ​Yeah.
Jenny:​ What do they make in Philly? [laughter] Sorry.
Kristin: ​I got my eyebrow pierced, I dyed my hair red.
Jenny:​ Oh yeah.
Kristin:​ And I had like a mushroom omelet. [laughter] Whatever; drugs are bad.
Actually, you want to know what's funny is the IMDB description, when I look it up
on my phone, doesn't say those things, but it did when I looked it up on my phone.
[laughter] Anyway, this is the one where—I was nervous when I got on stage and
now I feel fine. I'm like, are we even here? No, we're just in our basement taping.
[Jenny laughs] Okay, this is the one where Xander finds employment as a
bartender at a pub where some of Buffy's friends turn into terrifying Cro-Magnon
creatures. [laughter]
Now I have copied and pasted a whole bit about—cause I immediately looked up
“Cro-Magnon,” and I think I remember it. It's like, so there's a thing called a
European early modern human, and they were first discovered in a cave called
Cro-Magnon. Something like that! [laughter] [Jenny clears her throat] My real
question is, why did the writer of this description go ​there​, you know?
Jenny:​ “Cro-Magnon” is like a common-usage, early man thing.
Kristin:​ Oh my god…
Jenny:​ Okay, so what you actually copied and pasted was “The term European
early modern humans, or EMH, is equivalent to Cro-Magnon Man, or ‘Cro-Magnons,’
a term derived from the Cro-Magnon rock shelter in southwestern France where the
first EMH were found in 1868. Louis L-A-R-T-E-T [laughter] proposed ​Homo sapiens
fossils as the systematic name for “Cro-Magnon Man.” Thank you for listening.
Kristin: ​Wow, wow, wow. Thank you, Jenny. Um, I just—did you really know what
“Cro-Magnon” meant already?


Jenny: ​Yeah.
Kristin:​ Does everybody know what that means? Damn it! [laughter] Anyway,
right—so Cro-Magnon…
Jenny:​ You know what else about this episode?
Kristin: ​What else?
Jenny: ​Just before we like dig into what happens, thing by thing, just a couple
items of note. According to Wikipedia, this episode was nominated for an Emmy
award for outstanding hairstyling in a series! [laughter]
Also according to Wikipedia, this plot was written with the plan to take advantage of
funds from the Office of National Drug Control Policy available to shows that
promoted an anti-drug message. Funding was rejected for the episode because
drugs were an issue, but it was otherworldly nonsense [laughter], very abstract and
not like real-life kids taking drugs. Viewers wouldn't make the link to the ONDCP's
message. Uh-huh, or very many other things.
Kristin: ​Wow. I personally take so much enjoyment at live events because I get to
see what you all look like in your like cars when you know something that we're
saying, you know? Like you were like “This episode was anti-drugs,” and everybody
who knew it was like, “Yup, yup, yup, yup, yup, yup. I know. I know that too.” We
all get so excited that we know things together. [audience and Jenny laugh]
[Kristin sighs] Do you know why I heavy-sighed?
Jenny: ​Cause “Previously on Parker”?
Kristin: ​Cause fucking how many times [laughter] do I have to watch the reel of
Parker being the fucking worst over and over again? Somebody came in and saw
my shirt and was like, so I guess you're going to talk about Parker, right? Yeah, I
have plan on it, because what the fuck with this fucking guy? Sorry for my
language, but I'm not.
The only other thing that happens in the previously on is a mysterious look between
Oz and someone who we learn is named ​Veruca​. [laughter and boos]
Jenny:​ What, nobody’s just into Veruca? [sarcastically]
Kristin: ​I mean, she's gonna swallow the microphone. The microphone.


Jenny: ​Wait, can we wait until we get there? We got to talk about it. I just—hang
on.
Kristin: ​I have like a bodily—​not good ​bodily feelings. Yeah, like that.
Jenny:​ For those of you listening at home, I have my palms open sort of in front of
my ribs and I'm moving them up and down in a disgusted, I'm-going-to-heave kind
of, I-don't-know-what-to-do-with-myself manner. Great. Great, great.
Kristin:​ So, okay, then—
Jenny:​ Buffy’s hair looks amazing in this opening fight scene. Sorry…
Kristin:​ Does anyone else's hair look amazing?
Jenny: ​Als,o Kristin’s hair looks amazing! [cheering] Wow, I didn't know that I was
supposed to ​get a new look ​before the show. [Kristin laughs] Jesus.
Kristin: ​It was like between this or just really get the Buffy hair from ​this​ episode,
and I didn't know if I could do it. Anyhow, we go into this episode and we hit some
serious video game music, right?
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ I don't understand what it is. [Kristin and Jenny imitate video game
noises] We actually did it. We did the music, uh, with our mouths. Um, and I feel
like—so Buffy is having a, would you call it a fantasy?
Jenny: ​Yeah, this is totally a fantasy.
Kristin: ​She's like in class and she was—
Jenny:​ This is just like when I used to think about saving my classmates on
horseback when I was in first grade.
Kristin: ​In first grade! [laughter] Your lady classmates, right?
Jenny: ​Yeah, I was a skilled horseman in my mind at the age of six.
Kristin: ​You were saving lady friends?
Jenny: ​Of course! Who else would need to be saved but women, am I right?
[groans]


Kristin:​ When we were watching this episode together, I was talking about this
fantasy that Buffy was having, and Jenny was like, “You never imagined that
someone who hurts you horribly would need to be rescued by you?” And I was like,
“No, did I miss—?”
Jenny: ​Get your shit together, Kristin!
Kristin: ​I know, I really need to get the visuals going. But, yeah, so she's
envisioning this thing, and what I noticed in the first segment of this fight is that
there's like two vampires, and she has to stake one and then the other. And then
there's like two other vampires, and the whole time I was watching it, I was just
like, it would be really nice if Faith was here, you know? [laughter]
Jenny: ​To help!
Kristin: ​Because then the scene would go: Faith and Buffy stake the vampires,
Faith and Buffy stake the vampires, Parker's like, “Oh Buffy, I'm so sorry that I'm
the worst person in the fucking world,” and then Buffy and Faith make out.
[cheering] And say, “We don’t need your shit, Parker!”
Jenny: ​I thought you were going to say maybe like Faith and Buffy stake each
other. [laughter] I thought that’s where you were headed. No? Too soon? I mean I
know it's still light outside.
Kristin:​ I was warming up to it. Okay, we'll just jump right in.
Jenny: ​Just in case it doesn't come up again.
Kristin: ​Anyway, Faith was not there. Parker's stupid. We go to class. There was
almost a slideshow that I had playing for all of you as you entered, which was going
to be our logo and then two people in love and then a cheeseburger and then…
Jenny:​ A cozy house!
Kristin:​ Yeah, yeah: The pleasure principle. [laughter] What is it? Sex, power...
That's a Janelle Monae song. [laughter]
Jenny: ​Sex, food, shelter. Uh, security maybe?
Kristin:​ Really? ​Power​ wasn't on the fucking list?
Jenny:​ ​Power?
​


Kristin:​ I just feel like—I know we need those things to survive, but don't you feel
like a lot of this world doesn't care about the survival things and just cares about
the power is all I'm saying? Thank you!
Jenny: ​But I don't think that's what your pleasure principle is. ​Delicious power!
Succulent power! [​ mockingly]
Kristin:​ That’s why people twirl their mustaches. [laughter]
Jenny:​ Does anybody buy Professor Walsh’s teaching a class while Parker makes
that much noise in her classroom? [laughter] Is the question.
Kristin: ​No. Also, I didn't look into this, but a scientist did write to us and say—
Jenny: ​Scientists are always writing to us! [laughter]
Kristin: ​They always write to us! And a scientist was real pissed off that this was in
a science class—that the pleasure principle was included. So, I don't even know
why it's wrong, but it's wrong, say the scientists.
Jenny: ​Wait, but it's a psychology class.
Kristin:​ I know. But they were saying like, I mean, psychology, isn't psychology a
science?
Jenny: ​Yeah, but it's like a ​sexy​ science. [laughter] They're all sexy sciences.
Kristin: ​Listen, I just want to make sure that this episode makes all of Philadelphia
mad and all of the scientists happy. [Jenny laughs] Sorry, Philadelphia; I love you.
Jenny:​ Sorry for the Philadelphia scientists who don't know what to do with
themselves after this episode.
Kristin: ​They’re very confused. Okay, right, so you talked about that. My note is
“Ah gross, Parker.” Right, right, right. And then, of course, we get the other fantasy
and it's—
Jenny: ​The revamped—[laughter/groans]. It's not what I meant; it's not what I
meant! She improves upon—she builds upon what she was already working with.
Kristin:​ And he has a pint of ​Häagen-Dazs ​which was like,


Jenny: ​The sexy ice cream of the ‘90s.
Kristin:​ That's what I was going to say is, like, I know that we all still eat
Häagen-Dazs,​ but ​Häagen-Dazs​ was the fucking shit in the ‘90s. It was like you
could get whatever ice cream, or you could be fancy as fuck and get ​Häagen-Dazs,
you know? Right, it was? [laughter] [crosstalk]
Jenny: ​Yes, it was fancy as fuck! ​It was like the Giselle of ice cream. [laughter]
Kristin:​ Okay, so the opening shot—you found this out right?
Jenny:​ Mm, also according to Wikipedia. Please.
Kristin:​ Yes, our main research hub. Don't be mad at us, librarians. [Jenny laughs]
But the opening shot when we go to the school in this episode is actually a shot
from the first episode, because you can see—
Jenny:​ Of Season 4.
Kristin: ​Well the first UC Sunnydale shot, where you can see Buffy walking through
the crowd, like in her first—
Jenny: ​Remember when she was feeling so lost at the beginning of Season 4,
Episode 1, wandering through campus collecting flyers?
Kristin:​ Yeah. So if you missed it, go back and check it out. And then we get
Xander. Here's the thing about Xander: He's really turning a corner, you know?
[audience cheers]
Jenny:​ [to audience] You're all in one area! You had a meetup earlier.
Kristin: ​There was a Facebook group for people who like Xander and are coming to
a live event; they have to stick together.
Jenny: ​Hell yes! He is a real peach in this episode.
Kristin:​ He is! He’s got his lighter and his fake ID…
Jenny:​ I’ve got a couple problems!
Kristin: ​I meant to bring a lighter up here—dammit!


Jenny: ​Next time. I have a couple of problems. How do you get hired as a
bartender with a fake ID? Problem number one. Problem number two: that
mustache. Problem number three: Why is he carrying a bar rag around already?
Like he went out and got his own bar rag for practice.
Kristin​: And his lighter!
Jenny:​ The lighter makes sense. You BYO lighter to your bartending job, but a bar
rag? Also, bar racks are gross.
Kristin:​ But he's practicing; he's so excited about his new job. Also, um, did you
have a fake ID?
Jenny: ​I had somebody else's real ID.
Kristin: ​Well, yeah, that's what I had too; that counts as—
Jenny:​ It's different! I mean, it's a subset. You asked a question; I'm giving you as
thorough an answer as possible. [laughter]
Kristin: ​Thank you so much.
Jenny: ​And I only used it like three times… [laughter]
Kristin:​ Uh-huh?
Jenny: ​That's it, yeah.
Kristin:​ My, um—am I permitted to call it a “fake ID,” Jenny? It was a real ID, but
it was faked to me.
Jenny:​ You can call it whatever…
Kristin: ​My ​imposter​ ID [laughter] belonged to Jessica Lotus Corn. [laughter]
Jenny:​ Uh, sorry; is “Lotus Corn” hyphenated?
Kristin:​ It was the middle initial “L,” but I knew her, so I knew it was Lotus.
Jenny: ​Okay. What was her sign?
Kristin:​ She was a Capricorn, I guess, cause she was January. Right?


Jenny: ​Probably.
Kristin:​ January 12th—is that Capricorn? [audience agrees] Nailed it! But the
reason I bring up Jessica Lotus Corn, whom I don't know anymore, but who knows,
maybe she's a fan. She had brown eyes, and I have blue eyes. So, guys, get this: I
went to the eye doctor and I got colored contacts. [laughter] I was like, I'm not
fucking around; I'm getting into these bars. So, I put my brown-colored contacts on
to go out to the bars. That's my whole fake ID story.
Jenny: ​Great. [laughter]
Kristin: ​So, Buffy is just like—​ugh…
​
Jenny: ​Trying to rationalize Parker's trash?
Kristin:​ Yeah, I don't know; I'm giving her like a pass, you know? Her heart's
hurting or whatever, but it just—I don't know. I just feel like she should be done
with it, but she's not done with it. Not done with her hurt—done with trying to get
back with this…
Jenny:​ You know, Buffy’s at a disadvantage comparative to you cause you've
watched all of these episodes like three or four times each [laughter] in a very
short span of time, but Buffy I think, is processing at a reasonable rate for a young
woman who is wounded. Let her have her pain and work through it at her own
pace. Thanks.
Kristin: ​That's true.
Jenny:​ But I hate him too, and I want him to go. [laughter]
Kristin:​ The only other thing I want to talk about in this scene is—I don't even
know how we get here, but they're talking about men, and they're talking about
penises, and Xander says “Nothing can defeat the penis”? But no, I don't even,
whatever. But it's an overdub, so it's like everybody's like [speaks in gibberish],
and then it’s like “​No one can defeat the penis”​ totally loud. [laughter]
Jenny:​ It’s loud and it also sounds like he's in a room with like very slappy,
reverberous walls. It doesn't sound like he's outside.
Kristin:​ Jenny has sound notes. [laughter] Ah, man, you need some sound panels.
Something to absorb that sound…
Jenny:​ Okay.


Kristin​: Anyway, then we go to the pub. Ah, the pub. Yes? Are you excited about
the pub?
Jenny:​ I’m excited!
Kristin:​ Tell me why!
Jenny: ​A couple of things. Xander doesn't know how to bartend, [laughter] but, it's
very sweet and I feel for him.
Kristin:​ He’s “in the weeds.” That's an industry term. [laughter] 86 beer!
Jenny:​ Just ​no​ beer? [laughing]
Kristin:​ Really? Like are eight of you waiters? Or just like my jokes aren't funny.
Please continue, Jenny.
Jenny:​ You know what I like about this scene?
Kristin:​ What do you like? [Jenny laughs]
Jenny:​ It's related to some unpopular—not even opinions—it's an overstatement to
call my feelings about Riley “opinions.” [laughter] But, ah, Buffy spills a drink on
him, which... Wet T-shirt contest!
Kristin: ​No!
Jenny:​ Sorry—​wet button-down​ contest. [laughter]
Kristin:​ We got schooled on button-down versus button-up, so we’ve got to be
careful.
Jenny:​ So, button-up—​button-down​ has the buttons on the collar, sorry. See the
only person I know personally who knows the difference, um, other than I guess
whoever's writing it. Um, the other thing that I liked that immediately happens like
right afterwards—woo!—is Buffy's, like, “In my defense, you do take up a lot of
space,” [laughter] which is ​true​ because look at those broad shoulders, and he’s so
tall and look at that chest! What a great, fine specimen of a particular type of man
if you're into it, [laughter]which I could be convinced to theoretically be in favor of.
Kristin:​ I want to say for the record that I think Riley is a hunk. [cheering
tentatively] People were confused about how to respond; they didn't know if I was


trying to trick them. [laughing] They're like, “Woo!” and I'm like, “Just kidding! Now
I know who you really are!” I mean, Riley is a total hunk, and I also enjoy a hunk,
but I don't fucking like Riley, okay? [audience cheers] I can want to, like, touch
Riley's pecks and not like Riley, is all I'm saying.
Jenny:​ What do you think they feel like?
Kristin: ​Like alabaster. Isn't that a thing that you say for smooth, hard surfaces?
Jenny: ​I always think of alabaster as pale skin.
Kristin: ​Oh, it’s a color not a—so like marble.
Jenny:​ So really hard and not giving—
Kristin:​ Like the outside of the cantaloupe.
Jenny: ​So, kind of like bumpy and patterned.
Kristin:​ Can you tell…
Jenny: ​We’ve never touched a man!
Kristin: ​I’m like, “And then I ran my hands down his cantaloupe pecks.” [laughing]
Anyway, I don't know. Riley's just like, “That boy should have the attention span.”
Jenny: ​You don’t ​like ​that? He’s ​right!​
Kristin:​ No, because I feel like he's trying to move in.
Jenny:​ He's not trying to move in. He's just being a sweet, Southern, Iowan…
Kristin:​ ​Bull shit​!
Jenny:​ Fuck, that’s not Southern. Sorry; it’s a reflex to say “sweet, Southern.” A
sweet Iowan boy who’s talking about what his father says to be—
Kristin: ​Alright, that’s enough—you are cut off!
Jenny: ​A ​gentleman!!​


Kristin: ​Wait! Speaking of Riley, last episode I mentioned—I don't have the jingle
yet. It's being worked on, but I do have the lyrics, so I'd like to share them here
with you all today. [cheering] Thank you, thank you.
Jenny:​ I haven't heard them.
Kristin: ​Jenny has not heard them. The lyrics—I'm just going to read them so I
don't have to give away the melody.
Jenny: ​Cause you will never see this fucking melody coming. [laughter]
Kristin:​ The lyrics are: “Riley, you're kind of like cardboard. You're mansplaining is
best to be ignored.” You see that rhymes with cardboard. “No one cares that you're
a damn TA. Go away, Riley. Go away.” [cheering] How did I do, Jenny?
Jenny:​ Um, that was so great.
Kristin: ​Thank you.
Jenny:​ I mean, I can only imagine how much better it will get with the fucking
melody.
[GO AWAY RILEY jingle plays]
Riley, you are kind of a cardboard
Your mansplaining's best to be ignored
No one cares, you're our TA so please
Please go away

Jenny:​ Poor Riley!
Kristin:​ No, I think you were cut off.
Jenny: ​Look—cardboard? [laughter] How dare you? You’re going to blame
cardboard for being cardboard?
Kristin:​ No, what? [laughter]
Jenny: ​Yeah. I don't know. I'm just trying to like—
Kristin: ​You're spinning; you’re spinning.
Jenny: ​Okay, moving right along.


Kristin: ​Anyway, we have more to talk about in this scene, which is that then we
go to this girl who's a Delta Delta Theta Gamma monster, whatever. Uh, Paula. And
she's talking to Xander, and then this fucking dude is like, “Fuck you.” Right?
Jenny:​ Yo. We never get this guy's name, but we should give him a name so we
can refer to him specifically throughout. Ted!
Kristin:​ Chad?
Jenny: ​Chad or Tad? [audience shouts replies]
Kristin:​ It's very, very strong in favor of Chad. I would give it an 87/13 in the room
for Chad.
Jenny: ​Chad, it is.
Kristin: ​This guy is like, “Given your socioeconomic status, I see a BA dyad where
B rejects A dyad. ​Meh, meh, meh meh​.” [mockingly] Also though, I do want to
finish what he says, because he says, “We are the future of this country, and you
keep the bowl of peanuts full. We are what these girls want. [audience boos] To
that I say:
[THE PATRIARCHY jingle plays]
The patriarchy! [thunder clap, evil laughter]
[audience cheers]
Kristin: ​I cut it off early, cause I panicked cause it rolls into the next jingle, and
the next shingle is Patrol Cat. Alphabetical order, I guess. So, speaking of dudes
who suck, dyads, and beer, we should bring somebody to the stage.
Jenny:​ She's not a dude who sucks. [Kristin laughs] Just to be very clear. Oh, it's
me. It's my turn. Friend of the pod, America's sweetheart, beer enthusiast​. Wonder
Woman a
​ ficionado, the light of my life and the light of yours: Please come to the
stage, Heather Hogan! [audience cheers]
Heather: ​Hello!
Jenny:​ Holy shit, you brought notes.
Heather:​ I did.


Jenny: ​You brought as many notes as we have.
Heather:​ I liked when you were like, “Coming up, a woman who hates men and
loves beer,” I stood up, and then I was like, “Oh, I hope it's me.” [Kristin and Jenny
laugh] ​Buffering​ fans are the best people in the world. [audience cheers]
Jenny:​ Accurate.
Heather: ​The last time I was on this podcast, for “Dead Man's Party,”
Kristin: ​Oh yes.
Heather:​ Talked about how I sort of came into Buffy through like Pat and Joyce fan
fiction. [audience cheers] I've gotten no less than—hand-delivered to me—100 Pat
and Joyce fan fictions [laughter] and like really erotic fan art. [laughter] And I also
had at A-Camp—I don't know if you know A-Camp. It's a, I work for ​Autostraddle​.
Kristin runs a queer camp every year.
Kristin: ​We ​run, I think, collectively.
Heather:​ Anyway, I had a cabin called “The Sea Serpents,” and they were like sea
serpents and they were like ​Buffering​ fandom. And so our e-mails were going
around, and they were like, “So my main fandoms are like the Marvel cinematic
universe, ​Harry Potter​, and ​Buffering the Vampire Slayer.​ ” [laughter]
Jenny:​ ​What!
Heather:​ Yeah, like not even ​Buffy,​ but specifically ​Buffering the Vampire Slayer.​
Kristin: ​Also, I just want to tell this brief story about your cabin, because—so I am
the codirector of A-Camp, which means a lot of things, but if you sprain your ankle
or clog your toilet, I'm there for you. [laughter] And somebody sprain their ankle...
Heather: ​She fell out of a tree. Rachel? Hey, Rachel; I know you’re listening.
Kristin:​ Is Rachel here?
Heather:​ No, she’s a listener.
Kristin: ​Yes, in the ears of Rachel. So, I went with the nurse. And it was really
late—like 2:30 or 3 in the morning—and we wrapped Rachel's ankle and then left.
And then Heather told me... Is it okay that I'm outing your whole cabin [to
Heather]?


Heather:​ Please do.
Kristin:​ That ​everyone​ in the cabin woke up and was like, “If that happens again,
you wake us up!” [laughter]
Heather:​ “I can’t believe Kristin Russo was here and nobody woke us” [imitating
campers] [laughter and cheers]
Kristin:​ Which, yeah, I just thought it was very enjoyable. Anyway.
Jenny:​ Wow.
Kristin: ​Anyway, you’re here. At A-Camp, you do something very special.
Heather:​ I do. At A-Camp, I run a workshop called “Bitches Brew.” [cheering] It is
about the feminist history of beer, because here's a thing, I love beer. My partner,
Stacy, who is here, we both love beer. This is Stacy's first ​Buffering​ episode ever.
[cheering]
Kristin:​ Oh my god.
Jenny: ​Hi, Stacy!
Kristin: ​Welcome, Stacy.
Heather: ​So a couple of years ago, I was reading a book that was called, like, ​The
Complete History of Beer​. It was like a thousand pages. And in the first three
pages, it was like, “Every culture where beer brewing originated, it was created and
maintained by women.” And I was like, what? And then it never mentioned another
woman for like the next thousand pages of the book. [laughter] ​Patriarchy ​[softly].
Kristin: ​Would you like me to play the jingle again? Hold on.
Heather: ​My ghost jingle was pretty good. ​Patriarchy [​ ghostly] [laughter]
Kristin:​ I'll take it back to the top.
[THE PATRIARCHY jingle plays]
The patriarchy! [thunder clap, evil laughter]
Jenny:​ No, I think we need a new version with the Heather Hogan feature.


Heather:​ ​Patriarchy ​[ghostly]. Yeah. So that's what I do at this thing, and yeah,
that's all.
Kristin: ​So, how do you feel about this episode? Do you have anything specific for
this episode?
Heather: ​I just watched it this morning, and it wasn't as bad as I remember. And
my theory is that: Number one, even like the worst episodes of ​Buffy​ are still better
than what's mostly on TV now. [cheering] Number two, if you kind of watch it out
of context and you're not watching ​Buffy​ get better and better, and it's just like
you're watching it, you're like, ​this is really funny.​ [laughter] It’s pretty stupid, but
I had a soft spot for it when I watched this morning.
Kristin:​ I find that watching it back-to-back many times in a short span of time
also softens you to it. [laughter] My last viewing, I was like, ​this is great.​
Heather: ​I also think ​drinking​ softens you to it. You guys are a little extra sweary
today, actually.
Kristin:​ Oh, you think it's that Black Frost.
Heather:​ I think it's the black fat Black Frost. Oh my god, let me blow your mind!
Kristin: ​Yes, please.
Jenny:​ Please.
Heather: ​What do you call this thing that this beer is in?
Kristin:​ A koozie. [audience member shouts something] A what?
Heather: ​Okay, is there an Australian person here?
Kristin: ​What is it called?
Heather:​ Stubby holder. But wait a second, this morning I told Stacey—I was like,
“Kristin and Jenny got me a Black Frost koozie.” And she was like, “I think you
mean ​cozy​.” And I was like, “What?” And she was like, “Yeah, like it keeps your
beer cozy.” And I was like, “No, babe. It's like spelled with like two Os, like ​koozie.​
And so then I read a Wikipedia; like koozies were originated in Australia. So, I
texted my Australian friend Crystal, and I said, “Crystal, what do you call this?” And
she sent back the word “koozie,” and I was like, “Yes, right.” And then 10 minutes
later she was like, “And it's pronounced ​cozy.​ ” [laughter]


Kristin: ​Really?
Jenny: ​Fucking ​why​ though?
Kristin: ​Beer cozy…
Heather: ​It keeps your beer cozy.
Kristin:​ I mean, it does.
Heather:​ My girlfriend is a genius.
Jenny:​ I don't think you're trying to keep a beer ​cozy;​ you're trying to keep a beer
frosty.​ “Cozy” implies a warmth to me. But also, Australia’s on the other side of the
planet, so there might be like a disconnect…
Heather:​ Anyway, “stubby holder” is pretty good.
Kristin:​ “Stubby holder” is where we're going to land with that.
Jenny:​ Nice.
Kristin:​ This is like when Kate Leth had us call a beanie a “​toque​.” Yeah. We're
here. [crosstalk]
Jenny: ​We're a global podcast.
Kristin:​ Let's talk. I know you can't tell us everything about women and beer, but I
just feel like, what better way to harness the power of “Beer Bad” than to learn a
couple of things about women and beer from you?
Heather:​ Let me tell you my favorite feminist beer fact. And then we're going to go
riot in the streets. [laughter]
Kristin: ​Hell yes.
Heather: ​So, in the Middle Ages, women were in charge of brewing beer. And
every family, every age, drank beer every day. And they drank beer instead of
water, because water killed them and beer didn’t. Cause you'd have to boil water to
make beer. And they didn't realize that they were getting rid of all the bacteria and
stuff in water. They didn't realize that they were dying of, like, dysentery. They just
knew that beer kept them alive.


Kristin: ​Ah, I get it. Interesting.
Heather:​ So, they drank beer every day. And then the black plague came along
and killed like half the population, whatever. Suddenly, there were women who
needed to ​brew​ beer for people—for families they didn't have—and men who
needed to ​buy​ beer because their wives were dead. This is sad. [laughter] Anyway,
the women who started brewing beer were called “alewives.”
Kristin:​ Nice.
Heather: ​Alright, let me tell you what an alewife looks like. So, an alewife, when
she had beer to sell, she would put a broom out in front of her house—that was,
like, the signal. When she went to the market to sell her beer, she wore a big, tall
pointy hat so that people could find her out. Alewives brewed their beer and these
giant cauldrons. And they were notorious for keeping a lot of cats around to keep
like mice away from their grains.
Jenny: ​So basically, like, Professor ​McGonagall​? [laughter]
Heather: ​Right. So, I'm describing, obviously, a witch, right? Okay, so here's what
happened: Women who are alewives, who are brewing beer in the Middle Ages
became very powerful. They had a way to make money that didn't involve men,
and they were becoming very wealthy for the time and very affluent. And the
church did not love it. They were also living with a lot of other women, and not
marrying men. [cheering]
Kristin:​ For the listeners: I am smiling and nodding enthusiastically.
Heather:​ I gotta bring it back around. You guys have been talking about naked
men this whole time. [laughter] Anyway, so the church was like, “We gotta get
these ladies out of here.” And so they started creating all of this propaganda, and
what they started doing was deciding that they got to paint alewives as ​super
immoral. So they started writing these plays where, for example, the most famous
one is called ​The Chester Place.​
It's an eight-day play. At the beginning, on the first day, every—[laughter] super
fun—every profession that's immoral according to the Bible, plus alewives, they all
go to hell. So it's like tax collectors, pawn shop owners, women who serve beer.
And then over the next seven days, Jesus goes into hell, and he gets all of these
people out. Like one by one, he like brings out the tax collector, he brings out like
the pawn shop owner. And then at the end, at the very last day, he goes in and


he's like, “I'm going to leave this bitch here.” [laughter] And he leaves the alewife
in hell.
Kristin: ​What!
Heather: ​And he goes with everybody back, and that’s how the fucking play ends.
[laughter]
Kristin:​ Wow, wow.
Heather:​ It was very well-received. People loved it; they loved it. So then, the
church started creating these sculptures of women sort of holding a mug of beer,
riding piggyback on a demon into like the flames of hell. [laughter]
Jenny: ​Hot! It sounds hot!
Kristin: ​I know what our next T-shirt is! [cheering]
Heather: ​And drawing these women, sort of in these compromising positions with
demons and with like beer all over the place in hell—in like the hottest places in
hell—​to this day​ in Europe, to this day, the profession most depicted as hell-bound
in churches all across Europe is alewives.
Kristin:​ Wow.
Heather​: To this very day, more than any other profession.
Kristin:​ That is a great marketing campaign. I got to give them credit for that.
Heather: ​When the Salem witch trials came along pretty soon after this whole
thing started, the church was like, “How are we going to depict these witches so
that people know what they look like?” And they were like, “Oh, man: alewives. We
know exactly what people hate.” And so, the propaganda sort of became—what we
know as modern-day witches were really just alewives who had kept—ah-huh—who
had kept their families alive and serve the beer, and then the church just pushed
them out. ​Patriarchy ​[ghostly].
Kristin:​ Yeah [cheering] yeah. [cheering]
Heather:​ There's a lot of amazing stuff about women in beer history too and then a
lot of more infuriating stuff. But that's one of my favorite, favorite stories.
Kristin:​ It's a great story. I mean it's a horrible story, but it's a great, like what—


Heather:​ So when you see Professor ​McGonagall​ and little children—these little
girls’ dresses, which is on Halloween, you're like “alewife!” [laughter]
Kristin: ​If you dress up your kid as a witch for Halloween, please give them a
couple of mugs of beer next time. [laughter]
Heather:​ I thought that you were going to say your cat. And I was like, that's
right. You dress up your cat as a witch for Halloween.
Kristin:​ Holy shit. Heather Hogan. God, I love you.
Heather:​ I love you. Thank you for having me.
Kristin: Thank you for being here. Is there anything else that you wanted to say
about this episode? I mean you, you really... [laughter] Oh my gosh, is that your
packet?
Heather: ​I've written more on my notes for this podcast about women and beer
than that entire one thousand-page book about the history of beer.
Kristin: ​I also want to just put a pin in this. I would like to see some of the erotic
Pat and Joyce fan art.
Heather: ​No problem.
Kristin:​ Thank you.
Jenny: ​Would that be “Poyce” or…
Kristin: Is there a picture in that?
Heather:​ I was going to show you the picture of, you can put it on your site. It's of
the piggyback demon going—
Jenny: ​Hell yeah!
Heather:​ Here she is. She's piggy.
Kristin:​ Oh wow!
Heather:​ I think, I just noticed that she's naked for the first time.


Kristin: ​She is—she's naked and piggybacking on a demon. And she looks like
she's having a blast.
Heather: ​Alright, so I guess the only thing I want to say is, Chad… When Chad was
talking like someone who is never—who has kind of heard of what college is like
and they're writing dialogue for like… [laughter] Who fucking talks like that?
Anyway, when Chad says, “Had the earliest morality developed under the influence
of beer…” And I'm like, “Motherfucker, it did.” A [laughter] And B, it was assholes
like you that were pushing amazing woman out of it, ​Chad.​
Kristin:​ Yeah, fuck you, Chad!
Heather:​ Fuck you, Chad!
Kristin: ​I'm going to have a line of shirts that'll be: “Fuck off, Parker,” “Fuck you,
Chad,” “Go away, Riley.”
Jenny:​ Wooow.
Heather: ​“Fuck you, Chad” is like the most evergreen. [laughter]
Kristin: ​Yeah, you don't have to be a fan of anything to be like, “Fuck you, Chad.”
Everyone’s just like, yeah fuck that guy. Oh my god, I'm so sorry if you're here and
your name is Chad. [laughter]
Heather: ​Me too. In my profession, I'm not often thinking about the feelings of
men, and I am very sorry if your name is Chad. [laughter]
Kristin:​ Oh, Heather Hogan, you are the best if you. I mean, you all know Heather
Hogan at this point, but god damn it. Go find everything she's ever done because
she is a genius on Earth. [cheering]
Heather: ​Thank you both! [cheering]
Kristin: ​Hi, Jenny.
Jenny:​ Hey.
Kristin: ​How's it going?
Jenny: ​So great. I'm really metabolizing a lot of the things that I just took in. Ah,
that's going to be awhile.


Kristin: ​Yup! Do you want us to just sit for a minute while you...
Jenny:​ No, no, no. I'm going to put that in the background, and then concentrate
on how bad Xander is at pouring a pitcher of beer. [laughter] That is a un-full
pitcher of beer. If I received that pitcher of beer in my local pub, I would be
unhappy.​
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny: ​Generally, the rule of thumb with a container, right, is fill it? [laughter]
Kristin: ​It’s true. Generally speaking. Umm, Xander. After this moment, Xander
has a really good moment. I mean he has a lot in this episode, but he goes over to
Buffy—
Jenny: ​Right, he's been waiting for his “rough day?” moment, and it hasn't
happened. He's been practicing and practicing. And then Buffy is having a rough
day [sadly].
Kristin: ​And he just stops. He doesn't try to light anything. He just goes over, and
he is talking to her, and then the bartender [laughs]—I'm just going to skip ahead
for a second because the fucking like barkeep? What you call the person who's in
charge of the bar?
Jenny:​ Dave! [laughter]
Kristin:​ Dave, I have to give him a shout-out for later in the episode when he's
like, “Well, my brother-in-law’s a warlock.” Like, the line is giving nothing. It's just
like, you know we've been here four seasons. We're in fucking Sunnyvale.
Jenny: ​You get it! [laughter]
Kristin:​ You get it. Everybody's got a warlock in their family—somebody. But yeah,
Xander's just really comforting to Buffy, and it's really nice for the moment that he
has. I will say, later—I'm skipping again—but later, one of my favorite characters in
the entire episode is the girl with the ti—there are a lot of tiny bangs in this
episode, actually—this is a dark haired, a tiny bang. But she's like, “Boy, am I
having a rough day” [slowly, imitating] [laughter] I just feel like that actress
knocked it out of the park, you know?
Jenny: ​Yeah. It also was so perfectly placed. I mean, there are a lot of things
about this episode that are like—ahh—but the setup for that moment? Like you


think that Buffy is the payoff, but kind of that girl is the payoff of the rough day
moment warmup, and she nails it.
Kristin:​ She does a good job; she nails it. So anyhow, then these four dudes are
like, “You should be covered in men.”
Jenny:​ Okay gross! But listen—
Kristin: ​I had the instincts to take the mic out of the thing just so I could drop it on
the table, disgustedly. It’s a different kind of mic drop. Disgust, yes.
Jenny: ​Don't take it out on the microphone.
Kristin: ​Okay.
Jenny: ​Yeah, these guys are not…
Kristin:​ I mean, right. They're like “Thomas Aquinas, blah blah.”
Jenny: ​Ah, Thomas Aquinas(!) is a thing that happens in the episode. [laughter]
Only one of them is like, “Well, Thomas Aquinas…” and the other three have very
clearly​ heard enough about Thomas Aquinas, literally every night at the pub.
Kristin: ​Right, right. It's all they talk about. But before we get into the deep
conversation with these four...men...I went through so many words in my head
before I just settled on “men.” [Jenny laughs] We go to The fucking Bronze. And
you wanted to talk about this scene, Jenny.
Jenny:​ Mmm, mmm.
Kristin: ​You wanted to talk about—I actually think, if you give me a second, maybe
I still have it up. When we were watching this on the plane, I was like, “What is she
saying?” So, Jenny sent me the lyrics. [laughter]
Jenny:​ So, what you're hearing is a real band called THC.
Kristin: ​Yes. Not to be confused with TLC who were far superior in every way.
Jenny:​ But the girl—if you couldn't tell—playing Veruca is not actually singing or a
singer. I don't think she knows what it looks like when you sing. [laughter] Her
neck is like—she's kind of got the look of the hanged man from the last episode,
from the Halloween episode. [Kristin laughs] She's like all the way to one side and


all the way to the other. Then, as Kristin pointed out, she's got like a, “I'm going to
swallow the mic at any moment, look out” type of thing. She looks like a snake.
Kristin: ​Willow actually later says she “dressed like Faith with the voice of an
albatross.” [laughter] So good!
Jenny: ​Pretty tight.
Kristin:​ But no one can understand what she's saying, cause she's like, “I take you
uuuup” [imitating Veruca]. It's just like I don't understand what's happening. “I'll
take you up” is what she says. “Above ground, overfill over fire, newly emerged
from damp, rich Earth every, each inch a new sense—”—every each inch?—”a new
sensation stretches me out of my head, out of my head, into his to taste and smell
myself.” [laughter]
That's the lyric that made me say, “What are the lyrics in this? What did she just
say?” Did she just say, “to taste and smell myself”? I just want to know! She did.
Jenny:​ The thing about the '90s is that like ​anything​ could happen in music. Songs
could just be whatever.
Kristin: ​Yeah, it's true. It's true. And in the '90s, I feel like I probably would've had
different feelings.
Jenny: ​You probably would've ​loved​ that song in the '90s.
Kristin:​ I probably would've loved it. I probably would have been like ​wow​.
Jenny: ​You'd have been like, “Have you heard this? Listen to my mix that I just
burned.” [laughed]
Kristin: ​Yeah, I guess we were burning mixes about now, and it was like real cool.
Like, I ​burned​ this CD; it's not a cassette.
Jenny:​ So you're like, “Power achieved! Now all I need is shelter, food, and sex!”
[laughter]
Kristin: ​Good one; good job. So this is an important scene, because something
weird is happening and we don't know what. Willow is really sad because Oz has
been kind of distant.
Jenny:​ He's acting a freak.


Kristin:​ He's acting a freak, and he ​really is ​acting a freak. Like he's acting not his
Oz—
Jenny:​ Decidedly un-Oz.
Kristin:​ Yeah, decidedly un-OZ. I just looked to see what my other note was in the
scene, and it's just “OMG these lyrics.” We already covered that. [laughter] But
yeah, this is a scene where Oz is paying a lot of attention to Veruca and this band,
and it's like what's happening? And she's feeling upset, but I'm sure everything will
be fine.
Jenny:​ Yeah, me too. Everything's going to be completely fine [sarcastically]/
Moving right along and never looking back. Um, back in the dorm room. ​Back in the
dorm room ​[spookily]. Okay, well so many great things are happening. Willow's
doing amazing back-and-forth impressions of Oz and Veruca—so great. She says
that “dresses like Faith, voice like an albatross” thing. Buffy is watching a Luscious
Jackson music video for the song “Ladyfingers,” speaking of Faith. [laughter and
cheering]
Kristin: ​Yeah, yeah, yeah—good one!
Jenny: ​And there’s this great misunderstanding where Willow thinks Buffy has
decided that the best way to get over Parker is to have a fivesome—a
five-way—with four, and I quote, “really smart guys.” [laughter]
Kristin: ​But, you know, good on Willow. This is like, I think the second time that
Willow has been really sex positive.
Jenny:​ She actually is not sex positive. She definitely seems shook. She’s like “Oh.
Oh. Four?
​ ”
Kristin: ​I mean, it’s Willow! And she like just had sex with Oz like two minutes ago.
She is shook, but she's like, she's like, “Okay, and then you had sex with four men.
Are you okay?”
Jenny: ​She's not there as fast as she can.
Kristin: ​She, she's not like, “What the fuck, Buffy? That's fucked up.” I don't know.
She doesn't even have it in her eyes. She's just like, “Okay, well it's college.”
[laughter]
Jenny: ​“We're here to experiment!” [imitating Willow]


Kristin:​ “We’re here to experiment, and that's what you've done. Are you okay?
I'm here to support you because I'm your best friend.”
[audience shouts]
Kristin: ​You love Willow? I wonder if I have… [cheering] Yes, I do. Okay, great.
[WILLOW jingle plays, with audience singing along]
Who knows the square root of 1,225?
Willow!
Who’s gentle of heart and nimble with a hard drive?
Willow!
Willow, Willow, Willow.
[audience cheers]
Jenny: ​That was so nice.
Kristin:​ Hey, Jenny and I—
[HELLMATH jingle plays]
Hellmath!
Kristin: ​Dammit!
Jenny:​ Ehh!
Kristin: ​I knew, I knew I would forget at least one time.
Jenny: ​Let's get back to ​beer,​ which is foamy and comforting.
Kristin:​ I want to give a shout-out to Buffy’s butterfly pajamas in this scene.
[cheering] Yes, and I'll also just make a note that her hair has already gotten a
slight wave. [Jenny laughs]
Jenny: Fr​om the beer?
Kristin:​ From the beer, from the beer. Then, we go to class. Buffy is, we think at
this point, just super hung over. She's like, “She read the reading?” And then, she
does something that I have thought about doing every day of my god damn life.
Jenny:​ Slash have done​ to me​, because you felt like you could.


Kristin: ​Sure. Sure, sure, sure, sure. But I mean, like, strangers. Like I am a
human who has to tell myself, “Do not take a fry off that woman's plate! [laughter]
Don't! She won't think it's funny.” But then I’m like, “well, maybe she will and then
I'll get a fry.” [laughter] I just felt very seen in this moment. Ah, cool, great.
Anyway, then we learned that the beer is bad.
Jenny:​ “We learn that the beer is bad” [laughing]. We get a nice long look, almost
like an erotic sort of slow-pan across the magic rainbow chem set for warlocking
beer.
Kristin:​ Someone in our live watch—we recently did a live watch of “Beer Bad,”
and someone in our live watch called it ​Breaking Buffy,​ [laughter] which I thought
was pretty good. So yeah, the beer is bad; the beer is poisoned. Then when I got
my favorite girl.
We also get the GIF. We love to talk about GIFs, but the next scene in the pub
opens with the beer being poured and Buffy, like, down on the table, you know
what I’m talking about. Foamy, yes. And then we get a beautiful scene where
everybody just sits around the table and says, “You stupid.” [laughing] “No, you
stupid!”
Jenny: ​True.
Kristin:​ And I know that someone who is here works for Buzzfeed and made a list
ranking all of the Buffy episodes, from best to worst, and ranked this episode at the
bottom of the list—the last one, the very last one. And so, I think that at this point
in the dialogue, ​Louis Peitzman​ might have a thing to say. [cheering] Hello, Louis.
Louis: ​Hello.
Kristin: ​I said your last name on so many previous podcasts, and every time I was
like, I still haven't asked if you say “​Peitzman​,”​ and you do.
Louis:​ I do, yeah, yeah. Nailed it.
Kristin:​ Thank God. Welcome!
Louis: ​Thank you for having me to talk about “Beer Bad.”
Kristin: ​Yes, your favorite!
Louis: ​My favorite! [laughter]


Jenny: ​Don't be alarmed, but I'm just going to do this, you know what I mean?
[adjusting Louis’s mic]
Louis: ​Yeah. Here, I can just lean in.
Jenny:​ Oh hell yeah, that looks so good.
Louis: ​This is great. Thank you. I'm going to do it like Veruca. [laughter] I'm just
gonna—
Kristin:​ Tilt your head all the way—
Jenny:​ Yeah, touch it with two fingers.
Louis: ​I'm going to swallow—it’s very unsubtle, very unsubtle, which is that mic.
Kristin:​ So tell us that—let this be your like cleansing fire, you know? Let us know
all of your feelings.
Louis:​ Um, well I have a lot. Actually, you know, watching it again, I do agree, it
was not as bad as I remember it being. I think cause I had in my mind, it was just
like the worst possible episode. And I now know that's actually “Where the Wild
Things Are,” [cheering] but I won't skip ahead to where that is. No spoilers, but I
realized—same writer though.
Kristin:​ Ooh, sorry to that writer—yikes! [laughter]
Louis:​ I mean, it's still pretty bad.
Kristin: ​It's pretty bad, yeah.
Louis:​ It's not great.
Kristin:​ It's not the best dialogues; it’s not necessarily the best plot.
Louis: ​No, no. I actually—what I love watching it again is like how intellectually
superior these college kids are, and they go to UC Sunnydale, which is not like that
greatest school, right? [Jenny laughs] I don't want to sound condescending.
Kristin:​ Did you do the research?
Louis:​ No, I just mean like, I went to a UC, and it was great, but it's not like…
They're talking like they go to—


Kristin:​ Like an Ivy League.
Louis: ​Right. And they don't, so relax.
Kristin: ​But I feel like that can be a thing, you know, like if you didn't get into the
Ivy League...
Louis:​ Yeah, they're very insecure about it, and they're having this intellectual
dick-measuring contest.
Kristin: ​Yes, yes; they really are. ​The patriarchy ​[spookily].
Louis: ​I also really enjoyed all the Parker stuff, which I thought might be
controversial, but I
Kristin: ​Wait, explain. Tell us.
Jenny: ​You love Parker; Parker’s your favorite character!
Louis:​ I ​love ​Parker [sarcastically]. It's actually a tie between Parker and Veruca.
[laughing] No, I think watching it again, I was just thinking how there is not a lot of
casual sex on ​Buffy​.
Kristin:​ Right.
Jenny: ​Mmhmm.
Louis:​ And I really appreciate that this like delves into the reality of a casual
college hookup. It's very realistic to me. Like, all of it. He's a dick in such a specific
way that I know who that guy is.
Kristin:​ Yes, I think many of us do, right? [sadly]
Louis: ​I definitely had a freshman year, like fling with that guy several times—
several versions of that guy.
Kristin:​ Oh, you didn't go back to that ​that​ guy?
Louis:​ No, I did. [laughter] But then there were others.
Jenny: ​Just to be thorough?


Kristin:​ Cool, cool, cool.
Louis: ​Just to make sure. [laughter] The part that I relate to most is when she's
talking about how he has intimacy issues because his dad died. And like, I will just
keep making excuses for monsters forever because, you know, they're just, they're
sad inside and need out support—um, and our bodies, and we just have to keep
doing it. [laughter]
Kristin:​ Right. And I give Buffy a hard time for it, but I get it. It's, you know, you
wanna—
Louis: ​I mean, she had this like epic romance and doesn't get that like most guys
aren't like—
Kristin:​ 243 just fresh back from a hell dimension?
Louis. ​Right. Like they have that level of baggage [laughter],
Jenny: ​It’s unearned.
Louis:​ But they don’t have that romantic… He's just such a like—it's a sweeping,
epic romance, and you don't have that with the first guy you sleep with in college,
right?
Kristin: ​Yeah, typically. I don't know—anybody in here? Yep, nope, not a one.
[laughter]
Louis: ​But I do really appreciate that like I think what Willow does is so noble, but
she like—just to skip ahead a little bit—her intervention. But also, I would ​hate​ if
any friend ever did that. I think it's like so out of line. It's like very well-intentioned
and I think it shows her character, but also it's fucked up and really embarrassing.
Kristin:​ Yeah, but here's how I feel about that. Because like, yes it is, but it's also
one of those things that ten years later—because you know they're still going to be
friends—that's like, “Oh man, you were the fucking best!” You know? It's like, it
might not be cool right now, but when you realize how the world works, you're like,
fuck yeah, Willow.
Louis:​ it's just definitely not cool right now is the thing. [laughter] But like kudos to
Parker for trying to sleep with Willow. [laughter] He went for it, and I think that's
there's something really admirable about it.
Kristin:​ No, no, no.


Louis:​ I'm shaking my head, people listening! I’m shaking my head!
Kristin:​ “Kudos to Parker” is a banned phrase from this podcast.
Louis: ​Well, he had maybe like half a good point in there somewhere. He had his
point that you should be able to have sex with people without having to establish
you're gonna be together forever. And sometimes it's just sex. You should not
manipulate people into sleeping with you with the potential of a relationship,
certainly. But I think that his point about you can have sex and not have it be
forever—immortal.
Kristin:​ I don't know; every person I've had sex with, I've stayed with forever
[sarcastically]. [laughing]
Louis: ​Me too. Me too. It gets very crowded,
Kristin:​ But that's the way it works.
Louis: ​That's the way to do it.
Jenny: ​With rent in New York, yeah. [laughing]
Louis: ​We split it 67 ways. [laughing] I don't know if the number was too high or
too low. I’ll think about it.
Kristin:​ I secretly hope that you had a list and that was your actual number, but
we wouldn’t know.
Louis: ​I definitely lost count in college, but we're not talking about me.
Kristin:​ We're talking about Parker.
Louis:​ Parker. I also I looked up the actor who plays Parker, and he's aged very
well.
Jenny:​ Yeah, he looks great!
Louis: ​He looks really good.
Kristin:​ Whatever. Fuck that guy.
Jenny: ​But maybe he's grown as a person!


Louis: ​Okay. But here's the thing about Parker that I'm going to say that is going
to get me in trouble. Oh God, this is so bad. It's not that bad. It's not that bad. It's
not that bad. I, there's something about like—Parker knows he's a douchebag. Riley
thinks he's a really nice guy, [applause] and so does Xander. [mixed crowd
reaction]
Parker's not better than them. I'm just saying that I prefer knowing someone is
trash than having someone who thinks that they are like the “nice guy” thing. We
didn't have that term when ​Buffy​ was on, but I'm sure you've talked about that
Xander is like the quintessential version of that. And I think that Riley was trying to
step into with Buffy when she was talking about Parker, and I think that he feels
more entitled to her because he thinks he's like a nice Iowa boy. And I think that,
as we learn, I mean they're all—they're all trash. They're all garbage.
Kristin:​ Right. [cheering] I agree. You're not in trouble. You're not in trouble!
Louis:​ I didn't get in trouble! Except, I don’t know...
Kristin:​ Mean maybe Jenny's a little mad cause your boyfriend, Riley, goes along...
Louis:​ Listen, if you like a man who resembles an Ent from ​Lord of the Rings​, like
just a giant—
Jenny: ​He’s a human tree.
Louis: ​If you want something you can climb—
Jenny: ​Yeah, I want something I can climb!
Louis: ​But I do feel like he would feel very solid in an unpleasant way.
Kristin: ​So, like closer to my marble?
Louis: ​Exactly. Like that's the vampires in ​Twilight,​ the other—there’s also a
vampire series—they feel like cold and hard to the touch.
Kristin:​ And sparkly!
Louis:​ And it's the least sexy thing.
Jenny:​ Gross.


Louis: ​It's like the idea of cuddling with that is so unappealing.
Kristin:​ Right, but like not to yuck anyone's yum if you're into hard, stone vampire
chest.
Jenny: ​If you’re into humans made from cold marble.
Louis:​ But I feel like, yeah—no, I absolutely, no. Never.
Kristin: ​I see what you're saying about Parker. I would like to call that the “Dorito
theory,” because that's how I feel about Doritos. Doritos are like “I’m made of
chemicals, and I’m delicious!”
Jenny:​ “I’m trash!”
Kristin:​ And I'm like, you know what? That's fucking great.
Louis:​ The taste of MSG when you bite into a Dorito, and you get that MSG hit
right away and you know.
Kristin:​ You know, you know what you're doing. As opposed to eating an apple,
and you find out later it's also made of chemicals. What the fuck? [laughing]
Louis:​ I will say—not that anyone asked—that I think that Riley is better in bed
than Parker. I think Riley is. Parker is more selfish lover.
Kristin:​ Ah, yes. Okay, yeah.
Louis:​ But Xander’s worse than both of them. [laughter and cheers] This is like my
personal fan fic; it’s not based on anything. Yeah, I mean, I don't want to get
ahead of anything; I feel like definitely that's the right ranking.
Kristin: ​Okay. So, in terms of the game we're now playing is “Fuck, Fuck, Fuck.”
[laughter]
Louis: ​I just changed the rules just to make it—
Kristin:​ And it's Riley, Parker, Xander? In that order?
Louis:​ Yes.
Kristin:​ Okay, great. Great.


Louis: ​That's fair, right?
Kristin: ​Yeah, I think that's good. I was trying to go through my Rolodex of female
characters to find out what my Fuck, Fuck, Fuck would be. [laughing]
Louis:​ I mean, the thing about those guys is that you don't want to marry ​any​ of
them. Kind of fuck or kill is really the only… [laughter]
Jenny: ​Or maybe both? Maybe you don't have to choose!
Louis: ​You don't; you never have to choose things.
Kristin:​ Things are getting dark up here! [laughter] Louis, are there any other
things you'd like to talk in this episode?
Louis:​ You know, that Kal Penn was in it and I totally forgot about that, [cheering]
which was exciting. I took notes. The other thing that I want to mention is that I
thought it was funny that Sandra needed a fake ID, because they all look like well
over 21 at this point. [laughter] Like, that's not a mean comment; they were like in
their late twenties at this point. So, it's fine, it's fine. It's just, um, yeah—they were
not​ going to be carded.
Kristin: ​Also, let's be real. Dave, with the warlock brother-in-law didn't give a shit.
Louis: ​He’s actually the unspoken hero of the episode [Jenny laughs]. He had a
really good point. And also, the stakes are so low. They're like, there's going to be
damaged done; there's a fire. But, like, really what did he do? He had some had
some laughs. [laughter] And Buffy got a haircut or like a new hairstyle. And I think
we all ended up better for it.
Kristin:​ But, also, this guy, I love that he's like fucking—​ugh these college kids,
blah blah​. It's like, dude, you literally work at a college bar. It's not like he works at
a bar in town and, you know—
Louis:​ I'm sure he hates townies too, so it's not really that.
Kristin:​ Yeah that guy hates everybody, I think.
Louis: ​But those guys deserved it. They deserved just to be turned into
Cro-Magnon people.
Kristin: ​Yeah, I do agree with that.


Louis: ​So that's really on them.
Kristin:​ Wow. I'm so glad that you sat up here with us.
Louis: ​Thanks for having me.
Kristin: ​Taught us a new game.
Louis: ​The Fuck, Fuck, Fuck game? It’s great; play it with your friends. [laughter]
There's no wrong answer.
Kristin: ​I think there's a lot of queer people in the audience, [cheering] which
means we all do—that's what we do, right? Yeah. Anyway, [clears throat] on that
note, thank you so much.
Louis:​ Thank ​you!​
Kristin: ​Give it up for Louis ​Peitzman! [cheering]​ Jenny, do you have a Fuck, Fuck,
Fuck from ​Buffy?
​ I know—that's why I got stuck, but then I was like, ​Anya​.
Jenny:​ Anya.
Kristin:​ Yeah, I think Faith?
Jenny:​ Ehhhhh! [reacts to something someone in crowd said]
Kristin:​ What? I didn’t hear.
Jenny:​ Traditional “Kennedy!” from the back of the room,
Kristin: ​No spoilers!
Jenny: ​And then you're like, but after you fuck, she'd still be there!
Kristin: ​I think Faith, Anya. Oh, Kendra. [audience shouting] Drusilla’s a good pick,
because what would happen?
Jenny: ​What ​would h
​ appen? I think, instead of Fuck, Fuck, Fuck, we should play
Fuck, Fuck, Fuck, Fuck, Fuck. [laughter] Then there's room for Anya, Faith, Drusilla,
Kendr—
Kristin:​ And Buffy.


Jenny:​ You want to have sex with Buffy?
Kristin: ​Yeah. I'll be like, “Your blonde hair is so nice,” and she’ll be like, “Your
blonde hair is so nice.” [laughter] And then she’ll be like, “Do you wanna kiss?” And
I'll be like, “Yeah.” Again, you can tell that I write— [audience shouts “Cordelia!”]
Cordelia is, I feel ​too—
​
Jenny:​ She's too special!
Kristin: ​I want to watch a movie with Cordelia while holding her hand, putting my
head on her shoulder, and like then ​maybe w
​ e will fuck later, but like she's not on
my… Cordelia and I would make a list together. [audience shouts various things]
Alright, ​everybody get it together!​ [laughter]
Jenny:​ Oh yeah, we're working here. We're working.
Kristin: ​We're working. This podcast ​seven hours long​. All right, let's see what we
have to talk about. Oz is really fucking cool. “Jacket—cool.” [laughter]
Jenny: ​It’s a really tight note.
Kristin: ​Thank you. I mean, I just liked this fucking jacket. You know, we don't
have Kate, so… We talked about this with Louis, but, like, Willow. Yes. ​Yes.​ Like
fucking, oh my god. I'm just going to see what my notes say: “I'm tired of you men
and your men-ness” [laughter and cheering] is a quote. And then I quoted, “Most
are just two people passing through life,” and then I wrote in all caps, “Willow, go
on!” [Jenny laughs] Ah, then I wrote, “Yes Parker, but fuck you.” Because I do
agree. I think there was a point that Parker made, but he's an asshole, so he kind
of loses the point.
Jenny:​ Uh-huh.
Kristin:​ And then we got the moment that we came here for—when he fucking puts
his hands on her fucking hands and she's like, “How gullible do you think I am?”
Yes! [cheering]
Jenny and I talked early in the series when we made Willow's first jingle, which I
did already play, and we also have Vamp Willow’s jingle, but we talked about the
fact that we really feel like Willow is going to be the one that has the most jingles.
Because we're really getting into some new—like Willow is no longer finding out the
square root of whatever the number is in the song. Like, Willow’s getting—
Jenny:​ She’s still got time for math! [laughter]


Kristin: ​She does, but I'm just saying, like, I'm putting a seed down. I think it
might be almost time.
Jenny:​ Mmm. Oh no, another jingle?
Kristin:​ Yeah, they love jingles. Look at them! Make a nice jingle.
Jenny: ​Okay, alright.
Kristin: ​What do you got Jenny?
Jenny:​ Um, it's time for some knuckle-dragging, the kind of shirt removal I ​don't
prefer. [laughter]
Kristin: ​He’s like stuck in his shirt for a long time.
Jenny: ​Then they slap down a wad of vintage $20 bills, which did something to me,
which I wasn't expecting. I was like “My old money!” It was a lot. Then there was
some crashing from the bathroom, and then, oh my god, that guy went in regular
Chad and came out caveman Chad!
Kristin:​ Cro-Magnon Chad! Cro, Cro-Magnon?
Jenny:​ Cro-Chadnon?
Kristin:​ Cro-Chadnon! Good one!
Jenny: ​It’ not perfect.
Kristin: ​Also, there's a moment where the other three are like, “What the fuck
happened to that guy?”
Jenny: ​Yeah, they like evolve and then really hard ​devolve,​ which is weird.
Kristin:​ I just also want to say to anyone who works in the service industry, I
really felt seen by Xander in this moment as well, when he's like, “So how do we
calculate our tip?” [laughter]
If you're listening to the episode and you're ever confused, here's an easy way,
right? Your bill is $50? Take the five, and double it. Your tip is 10, at least—that's
how you do it. You don’t even have to… Oh my god, it's Hellmath! Oh my god, it's
Hellmath.


[HELLMATH jingle plays]
Hellmath!
[cheering]
Jenny:​ I think that's just ​regular​ math, Kristin! [laughter]
Kristin:​ I think I was thinking about my first job waiting tables at TGI Fridays,
which makes it Hellmath, you know?
Jenny: ​Wow.
Kristin: ​No, what was cool about TJI Fridays, back in the day, was that they would
let us r​un after people​. Cause I would have people that the bill would be $43 and
20 cents and, they would leave $44. [booing] Yeah, right. And I would go running
up with them and I'd be like, “Do you know how much I make an hour? $3 and 20
cents. Do you know how I make my money? With tips. Do you know what you left
me? 80—I don't remember what the math I said was—something cents!” And
sometimes they would give me more money, and usually they'd be like, fuck off.
And they were like, so tip your waiters and your bartenders and all of your people!
[cheering] Great, great, great. Then a caveman gets hit by a car, et cetera.
Jenny: ​We also find out that Black Frost is apparently, and I quote, “fruity little
microbrew,” [laughter]. It’s the honeypot of fruity little microbrews.
Kristin​: We also find out that these dudes, when they change, are afraid of fire,
which is an integral point.
Jenny: ​V caveman.
Kristin: ​Yeah. And then, Giles is here. [cheering]
Jenny:​ Dad's back! Hot dad!
Kristin:​ Hot dad. He didn't bring his chainsaw—womp womp. I prefer Giles with the
chainsaw all the time. But Giles is back, and Buffy is making cave drawings on the
wall with probably lipstick; it seems like it's not, but this was the ‘90s, and I think
that—
Jenny: ​Oh yeah, that was a stick of face lipstick, I think.
Kristin: ​Ah, oh great.


Jenny: ​Left behind. And then she's thumping the biggest man that she drew on the
wall and saying, “Parker bad.” ​Thump, thump, “​ Parker bad.” What [to Kristin]?
Kristin:​ I just got caught with “​thumping t​ he biggest man.” [laughter] I didn't
understand where it was going, but okay. Yes, right. She's doing that thing. And
then, Willow was fucking doing her thing.
Jenny: ​Oh god, remember when Parker was like, “I don't mean this in a bragging
way, but I do get to know a lot of women.” [laughter]
Kristin:​ If I wasn't already working so hard on my “Go away, Riley” jingle, I would
make also…
Jenny:​ Ew, also—sorry, now it's my turn with Parker. When he's like trying to
fucking get it, he's like, “Can I tell you something kind of private?” And then, they
say a couple things back and forth and then he's like, “I've enjoyed talking with you
here tonight.” That's not private; that's just regular! [laughter] Parker! It’s like
you’re not even trying!
Kristin:​ Oh, Parker, seriously. Also, Willow unfortunately says, “jump on my
bones”? [laughter]
Jenny:​ I don't think that's unfortunate; I think that's like pure Willow. She's like, “I
know I've heard this phrase. What is it?”
Kristin:​ “Jump on my bones.” Which is like accurate. I mean, I guess you're like
jumping on a, on—no, like bones.
Jenny: ​Let this moment pass, Lord in heaven. Let this moment pass. [laughter]
Kristin:​ “Men haven't changed since the dawn of time” is the line. So I ragged on
this episode for shitty dialogue, but that's kind of a good moment, because then the
cavemen answer, we see Buffy spinning around in her chair—another hot, hot GIF.
Jenny: ​Watching Giles watch Buffy [laughter] do this is one of the purest joys I've
known in my life.
Kristin: ​Truly. And Buffy’s hair is in full effect now; we have to note that. Buffy’s
hair—​Emmy. T
​ he Emmy is now being won. I have a question actually from before,
or just any time, which is, do you think that Buffy has a higher tolerance for
alcohol? [audience responds] Yes, we do.


Jenny:​ I thought you were going to say for like ​magic​, and I was ready for that.
Kristin: ​No, just like alcohol. Like I feel like, probably, she has to drink more.
Jenny: ​She seems like she's doing better than all those dudes. And she's like
chugging and keeping pace with them.
Kristin: ​Right, exactly. I also think we should just have meetings—like we don't
have to do a live taping, and I'll just say like, “Do you think ​this?
​ ” and then you can
let me know.
Jenny:​ You just check in on the lore?
Kristin:​ Yes, it’s really immediate. It’s quicker than the internet, you know? Okay,
so everything is devolving. Buffy—
Jenny: ​Punches Giles?
Kristin:​ Buffy punches Giles, but don't worry: your knockout count is still at 13. I
don't remember where we were, but he doesn't get knocked out. He just slides
down the wall, and he’s like “This again?” [laughter] And then Buffy says the line
that almost made it to Jenny's T-shirt, which is “Boys smell nice,” which they kinda
do?
Jenny: ​Sometimes, depends on the boy, really. It's a case-by-case thing you have
to assess as you go, is my experience.
Kristin:​ But I will say that nice smelling boys do smell nice.
Jenny: ​True!
Kristin:​ Let's take it outside of the gender binary and just say, anyone that uses
Old Spice of any kind, I will hug you longer than most. [laughter]
Jenny:​ Do you want to play a quick round of Smell, Smell, Smell? [laughter]
Kristin:​ I'll work on it. I'll work on it. Riley would be on it!
Jenny: ​Right, Riley probably smells ​great.​
Kristin:​ Parker fucking uses AXE Body Spray. [laughter] Alright, before we fall
down a hole of talking about men and how they smell, let's get Kathy Tu up here.


Jenny: ​Hell yeah! [cheering]
Kristin:​ Do y’all know Kathy Tu, from ​Nancy​, a podcast about queer humans? Hi,
Kathy!
Kathy: ​Hi!
Jenny:​ Kathy, who was the last man you smelled?
Kathy: ​Oh my god, nobody. [laughter]
Jenny:​ Great, great, great, great.
Kristin:​ “I’ve never smelled a man.”
Kathy: ​It might be weird, but it was probably Tobin.
Kristin​: Ah, yes.
Jenny: ​That's just to be expected. [crosstalk]
Kristin: ​I thought you were going to go for it.
Kathy: ​I’m gonna go for it.
Kristin: ​Great.
Jenny:​ Yes!
Kathy: ​I was wondering how you're going to connect me to this show, and I think
the connection is I would do ​anything​ for both of you. So that's why I'm here, right?
That's why I'm here. I literally changed my flight to come here.
Jenny: ​What!
Kristin:​ What! Kathy was just in—where were you, South Africa?
Kathy: ​South Africa.
Kristin:​ You came back from South Africa just to be with us?
Kathy:​ Well you texted me about the show, and I was like, ​oh my God, finally​.
[laughter] And I already had booked my flight.


Kristin:​ And you changed it?
Kathy: ​I had a conference, and I emailed the conference lady. I was like: I ​need​ to
come back two days earlier…
Kristin:​ Two days? [shrieks]
Kathy: ​Because I thought this show was last night. [laughter]
Kristin:​ It’s true, it’s true. Kathy texted me yesterday and was like, “So 7:30,
tonight?” And I was like, “No, no, no, no, tomorrow.”
Kathy: ​And so I got some sleep, which was great.
Kristin: ​That is good.
Kathy: ​And then, now I'm here. Still jet-lagged, but I’m here. [cheering]
Jenny:​ Wow!
Kristin:​ Wow!
Kathy:​ I also love the show—great show.
Kristin: ​I feel so honored. So you're a huge fan of ​Buffy?
​
Kathy: ​I am, yeah.
Kristin:​ And do you have feelings about this episode? Did you have any feelings
before flying back from South Africa to talk about it?
Kathy:​ My feeling about this episode is that it lacks the presence of Faith, [cheers]
and that’s about it. [laughter] I also can't drink, so I guess I can understand why
it's “Beer Bad,” but, I would ​love​ to be able to drink, you guys. It would make being
up here much easier.
Kristin: ​Your tolerance is low, so drinking doesn’t make you feel good.
Kathy:​ Yeah, I have a drink and I throw up, so I can’t. It sucks! I went to law
school, you guys, without drinking.
Kristin: ​Wow.


Kathy:​ It was hard.
Kristin:​ Um, I'm sorry that you can't partake in beer, but I am glad that you did
not​ have a beer because this interview would have gone a lot differently. ​Although​,
you know, we haven't yet had anyone throw up while talking to us.
Kathy: ​Do you want that? I mean, I would do anything for you guys. [laughter]
Jenny:​ It would be an ​event​! It would be something very memorable for all of us.
Kristin:​ Like, can you find that from South Africa and then throw up? I feel like
we've touched on a lot of points, but I feel like the reason you miss Faith perhaps is
because, like, what you do for a living is it's similar to what I do for a living. You're
a professional queer person.
Kathy: ​Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: ​So, do you want to talk about some of your queer feelings on ​Buffy?
​ Again,
I will remind you that this is a spoiler-free podcast. Um, Jenny once spoiled Jenny
Calendar’s death live, right here. Not right ​here​, but. [Jenny laughs]
Jenny: ​Yeah, let it go!
Kristin:​ The Jerry Springer’s—they’re here!
Kathy:​ I have one thing to say about Parker, which is, the actor, didn't he... Okay,
in another seminal teenage series…
Kristin: ​Yes, ​Dawson's Creek.​
Jenny:​ Yes.
Kathy: ​Wasn't he the guy that kissed Jack?
Jenny:​ Yes!
Kristin:​ Oh, I actually didn't know who he played on ​Dawson's Creek​, but
somebody tweeted at us to say that he was on it. Is he the guy that kissed Jack?
Spoilers for ​Dawson’s Creek​!
Jenny: ​Didn't we talk about this? It was ​the first​ two-boy network prime time sitch.


Kristin:​ I think we might've talked about that without microphones.
Jenny:​ Why would we ever… [laughter]
Kristin:​ I don't know! Yeah, why? So he gets a point for that, the actor, I guess. I'll
give him a point.
Jenny: ​Sure, if we must.
Kathy:​ And Faith just has played such a role in my life in that I love her. It split me
and Tobin apart quite a lot because he just recently started watching this series,
and he ​hates​ Faith. [audience is appalled]
Jenny:​ What?
Kathy:​ This is so lovely you guys. I feel so seen.
Kristin:​ Okay but hold on. For Tobin, I will say that even as a queer woman
watching for the first time, when I first came to Faith, I wasn't sure about Faith.
[laughing
Kathy: ​But then you see her more, and you're like, ​yeah​.
Kristin: ​But then, Faith grew on me, and then the second time around I was like,
hello ​[flirtatiously]. [laughter] So, like, Tobin might just need a minute with Faith.
Kathy: ​I also feel like you have to look at Faith in her entirety.
Kristin: ​I thought you were going to say— [crosstalk]
Jenny:​ You were definitely doing a full body gesture, you know, with her boob
window shirt and her leather pants!
Kristin:​ And I was like, yes, you do have to look at her in her leather to really
understand.
Kathy: ​Should I put her on my show? Is that a thing that should happen?
Kristin:​ Wait, Eliza? Are you saying should you put Eliza on your face?
Kathy:​ Yes.
Kristin: ​Can I ​be​ on that one? I want that one!


Kathy:​ Yes.
Kristin:​ Great, okay. Well, you heard it here first, folks.
Kathy: ​You know, when we were piloting our show, you are one of our first guests.
Kristin: ​I know. Where did that—did that even exist? Is it gone?
Kathy:​ I made a cut of it at some point, and then nobody gave me any response.
So I think it was me and not you. They were like, you were great, you were perfect.
Kristin: ​When Kathy and Tobin first found out—it was still part of the contest,
right?
Kathy:​ It was later when we were piloting the show to see whether or not we'd be
picked up and be an ​actual​ show and I would have a job.
Kristin: ​And I went and I interviewed. It's that little note. It's the B side of ​Nancy​.
Kathy:​ Eventually we’re gonna release it. One day.
Kristin:​ But I want to be on a ​mainstream​ episode with Eliza Dushku.
Kathy:​ 100%.
Kristin:​ I wanna talk to talk to her about my feelings and...
Kathy:​ How do we get her on this show? How does that happen?
Kristin: ​You know, I think we just need to keep asking politely, nicely. [laughter] I
think she's going to come on it. I think she will. I think eventually Charisma
Carpenter [cheering] is going to come on. I have big, big dreams. Jenny and I—
again, occupy?
Kathy​: Are you okay? [laughing to Jenny]
Kristin: ​Do you know—do you all notice that when we do interviews it's just me?
That's because Jenny can’t. [laughter] She gets so nervous.
Jenny: ​It's too much! There's just too much. And you're so good at talking to
people. Like, I'm just like trying to get in there and be a meaningful part of the
team, and it's not [clears throat] natural.


Kathy: ​You're both wonderful. I don't know what you're talking about.
Jenny:​ I like you. Please be a permanent part of the show, every day.
Kristin:​ Kathy, are you Hufflepuff?
Kathy:​ Yes! [cheering]
Jenny: ​Obviously ​Kathy’s a Hufflepuff!
Kathy:​ I thought all lesbians were. Is that not a thing? [laughter]
Jenny:​ No, that is not a thing.
Kathy: ​I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
Jenny:​ How dare you!
Kathy:​ I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I’m sorry.
Jenny: ​No, no, no, don’t be sorry.
Kristin: ​Such a Hufflepuff: “I’m so sorry!” [laughter] No, we know a lot of
Slytherin​. [cheering] Yeah.
Jenny: ​You do?
Kristin:​ Yeah. I'm not going to sit here and name our queer friends who are
Slytherins.
Jenny:​ It’s their business, okay.
Kristin: ​But yeah, we know a lot of Slytherins. Jenny’s a Ravenclaw. [cheering and
applause] Wow! Strong feelings about the Ravenclaws. And then I don’t know a lot
of ​Gryffindors. [cheering]
Jenny: ​Or you think you don't?
Kristin: ​Alright, then, who's a Hufflepuff? [cheering] Slytherins, did you cheer?
[cheering] Will the Slytherins just so “​Ssssss​.” [laughter] God, I was really intimate,
and then I got so panicked that we were going to cause a thing to happen.
[laughter] I was like, it's too much ​Parseltongue​! [laughter]


Okay, we've gotten off ​Buffy​ and beer and gone to Hogwarts. But, I have a question
for you, Kathy.
Kathy: ​Yes.
Kristin:​ Because you said when you drink a beer you just throw up. So I want to
know, was that something that you learned in college?
Kathy: ​Yes. [laughter]
Kristin: ​Okay. Can you tell us, is there a story?
Kathy:​ I took a shot, and I threw up.
Kristin:​ Immediately?
Kathy:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ Wow!
Kathy:​ It was like within five minutes.
Jenny:​ That is ​amazing​! I mean that sucks. [laughter] But just from a sheer
response time, you know, cause and reaction. That’s incredible.
Kathy: ​Yeah. My brother has the same thing, but he went to UC Santa Barbara and
just ​kept​ throwing up, and now he's better.
Kristin: ​Oh, he like got it out of the system
Jenny:​ You just gotta drink through.
Kathy: ​Yeah exactly. And I just didn't really want to go through that.
Kristin:​ So when I was younger, I smoked cigarettes. It's fine.
Jenny:​ But don't smoke cigarettes ​now​, and neither should you. And we are not in
favor of tobacco products of any kind. Let’s be very clear.
Kristin:​ No, we don't like tobacco products at all. However, I smoked cigarettes for
like, I dunno, a few months, and then I would wake up in the morning and I would
have difficulty breathing. It makes sense. And I called my friend up who is a


smoker and who smoked longer than me, and I was like, “Hey, man. I wake up in
the morning”—I'm like 17 or 18—“I wake up in the morning and I can just like,
can't breathe.” And he was like, “You just gotta smoke through it.” [laughter] And I
fucking did! [laughter] So, like, I get it, you know?
Kathy:​ Your lungs are like collapsing.
Kristin:​ I’m glad that you listened to your body, Kathy.
Jenny: ​Yeah, that was so smart!
Kathy​: Yeah, throwing up’s not fun, you guys.
Kristin:​ Kathy?
Kathy:​ Yes.
Kristin:​ Hi. [Jenny laughs]
Kathy: ​Hi. Are there any other things from this episode that struck you, that made
you feel—
Kathy:​ Oh no, I don't—feel like what?
Kristin:​ Anything, any feeling at all.
Kathy:​ Those four guys were definitely future men's rights activists, for sure.
Jenny​: Uh-huh. [audience grumbles]
Kristin: ​Oh yeah. That scene with that guy being like, “We're the one that women
want.” I was like: First of all, let's take a poll. [laughter] And second of all, you're
who I see on Fox News all the fucking time. Good to see your origin story.
Kathy:​ Yeah. That's how I feel. Yeah, it definitely needs more Faith.
Kristin: ​Kathy Tu’s rating of this episode: needed more Faith. [laughing]
Kathy:​ I know she’s busy doing other things at the moment, but, like, she could've
showed up.
Kristin:​ She could have. I mean, we needed her in the beginning. I said it already.
I think she would have helped.


Kathy:​ Tobin had me all set up that I was going to come here and feel like so
attacked about loving Faith.
Jenny: ​What​!
Kristin:​ m, I don't think Tobin understands our community.
Kathy:​ He doesn't. Well, here's the other thing. I think he thinks that because I
tend to like characters that are quote, unquote “evil with a heart of gold.”
Kristin: ​Oh, do you like... Spike?
Kathy:​ Spike? Oh yeah, yeah. I was thinking, of ah—
Kristin: ​Careful. I was so careful. I was like, do we know Spike? Yes, we know
about Spike. Spike exists! Okay, great.
Kathy:​ I was thinking of Jenny from ​The L Word​. [mixed audience reaction]
Jenny:​ Hell fucking yeah, hell fucking yeah.
Kathy:​ This will lose the room for me. Yeah, I know. I know. I brought it on myself.
I did.
Kristin:​ Heather Hogan just​ stood up.​ [laughter]
Jenny:​ Regardless of what you think about the moral compass or whatever of
Jenny from ​The L Word​, at this moment in time if you go back and watch ​The L
Word,​ there's nobody that's more entertaining on that show than Jenny. That’s the
whole point.
Kathy:​ Also, mental illness is a thing, and she has it.
Kristin:​ Okay, alright, okay.​ ​There's my favorite Jenny scene in the whole series.
It's so little. Listen, just for a minute, okay? Indulge us. She spits her gum at—.
[laughter] She spits her gum at Shane, and it's amazing and beautiful. I was here
for it and so are you. Thank you so much. [laughter]
Kathy: ​I think I have a moment like that too. There's an episode where
somebody's wrestling with oil. I
Kristin:​ It’s like her lover, Cindy, isn't it? Dawn Denbo and her lover, Cindy.


Kathy: ​And then they were like, “You want to join us?” And she's like, “Nah, I'm
good.” I loved that; I made that into a GIF for myself.
Jenny: ​Just for you. [laughing]
Kristin:​ Just for you to look at? Because you newly watching ​The L Word n
​ ow,
right? Are you done?
Kathy: ​I did; I just finished. It was quite a journey.
Jenny: ​Wow, congratulations. Welcome to the other side of that line.
Kathy: ​Now I'm trying to convince my girlfriend to watch it.
Kristin:​ Ah, wow. Kathy, I have to say that bringing you up here as the host of a
queer podcast and a queer professional, I think you've really done your duties.
[laughing]
Jenny: ​Faith? Check. ​The L Word?
​ Check. [inaudible]
Kristin:​ Hogwarts houses? Check.
Kathy:​ Yeah. What else do I—
Kristin:​ Do you have any astrology information you wanna give us? [laughter]
What’s your sign?
Kathy: ​Libra, always looking for a balance.
Kristin: ​Uh, Jenny, what's your sign?
Jenny:​ Well, I'm a Sagittarius, but I have a Libra moon.
Kathy:​ I don’t know what that means.
Jenny: ​It’s just, like, next in line.
Kathy:​ Oh, I think I have a Virgo moon. [a few cheers]
Kristin:​ Three people have a Virgo moon. [laughing] Do you want to hear about
me?


Kathy: ​Yes.
Kristin:​ I am a Sagittarius with a Sagittarius Rising into Sagittarius moon, and the
fourth one is Aries, which is also fire. So, consider yourselves warned.
Kathy:​ I don't know what that means. So great.
Jenny:​ Um, actually, Kristin, your moon is in Aries.
Kristin: ​Oh, I'm a Sagittarius, Sagittarius…?
Jenny:​ But your Sun Rising and Mercury are all Sagittarius. And your
Neptune—lookout.
Jenny: ​See this is when the lighter would've come in handy again—right now. Well,
Kathy Tu.
Kathy: ​I will come back; don't worry.
Jenny: ​Please!
Kristin:​ Please come back!
Kathy: ​ Maybe next time, I'm even further away. I will change the flight.
Kristin: ​Yes, now I know that no matter where you are... I want to tell you
something: you came here from South Africa. There's a person in the audience
tonight that flew here for this event from Singapore.
Jenny: ​What! [cheering]
Kathy: ​Oh, you win.
Kristin: ​I'm just saying, like, commitment is here! We love you all. You're all the
best. Kathy, thank you.
Kathy: ​Thank you for having me. [applause] [crosstalk]
Kristin: ​Well, we should have done it. And talked about gay things the whole time,
so... Has anyone seen ​Hannah Gadsby’s​, ​Nanette​? [cheering] Have you seen it yet,
Jenny?
Jenny:​ No, shut up, shut up


Kristin:​ Jenny’s behind the curve. But that's what that reminded me of—more
lesbian content, you know? Right here for everybody. Ah, so you know, whatever,
the whole place that's on fire.
Jenny:​ Buffy ends up saving Parker like non-Cro-Mag Buffy was only dreaming of
doing.
Kristin:​ But first, she sees Willow, and even in her Cro-Mag, Ma, Ma—is it
“Mag​mum​”? [audience replies] ​Non​. Even in her Cro-Magnon state, she recognizes
that Willow is her friend, and she carries Willow to safety.
But it's also—if you want to go back and look at the two girls who rescue each
other, there's a very non-necessary butt grab. [laughter] They have their own
storyline. Like, they went out, they’re best friends, they're trying to figure out their
feelings for each other. And she was like, “Oh no, a fire! Let me help you”
[laughter] Um, so they got out and then, yes, Buffy’s fantasy comes true, but it
comes true in the way that I would've dreamt it.
Jenny: ​Yeah. Yeah, which is that she ​knocks him out t​ o carry him outside of the
burning building. Then he comes to her in the way that he did in her fantasy and is
all like, “Oh, can you ever forgive me? I'm so ​bleh bleh bleh bleh.​ ” And then she
thinks about it for a second, and then just beats him in the head again, [cheering]
knocking him unconscious.
Kristin: ​Fuck off, Parker! And stay out, you know what I mean?
Jenny:​ And stay out.
Kristin: ​Also a few things that I just want to make sure we shout-out in this
episode. The jump that Buffy does to that fucking window is amazing!
Jenny:​ Muah hahaha.
Kristin:​ ​Wow​, Jenny.
Jenny:​ Muah hahaha.
Kristin: ​Reminiscent of Season 1?
Jenny: ​When she hopped over the school gate?
Kristin:​ Yeah. When, when she does the thing with Angel.


Jenny: ​Oh.
Kristin:​ I mean, no ​with ​Angel, but when she does the thing. I'm flipping upside
down in my chair, for the listeners. [laughter]
Jenny:​ That did ​not​ happen. [laughter]
Kristin:​ Okay, we talked about the butt assist—great. Is there anything else that
we forgot to talk about in this episode?
Jenny:​ What did we learn about beer? Foamy…
Kristin:​ Bad! Bad!
Jenny:​ ​Foamy​!
Kristin: ​Oh, and I just wanted to, and not to go too hard on this whole Xander
thing—I'm really taking us out of our comfort zone, but I think it should be noted
that Xander goes running right into the burning building, you know? Like, he
doesn't even hesitate. He just goes running right in it.
Jenny:​ Thanks, Xander! [applause] Good boy, Xander!
Kristin:​ The Xander section started the Xander clap, but we were all there for them
together. So yeah, I think we talked about cavemen and hair and the patriarchy
and beer.
Jenny: ​I think there's only thing one we haven't talked about.
Kristin:​ That's true. Do you know what it is, Jenny?
Jenny:​ It's a particular kind of tension. [cheering]
[SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays]
Sexual tension award!
Jenny: ​Well, welcome back to the 2018 ​Buffering the Vampire Slayer S
​ exual
Tension Awards! [cheering] Before we get into this week's nominees, we want to
talk about last week's winners and losers. For the episode—
Kristin:​ I really wish you had an almost sealed envelope, you know? [Jenny
laughs]


Jenny: ​For the episode “Fear, Itself.” Gosh, gosh, this was pretty much a landslide.
Coming in ​tied​ in last place, each with 7% of the vote, we have Riley and
Mansplaining [laughter] (a match made in some people's version of heaven), and
Xander and Anya, who I think deserves better.
Kristin: ​I think they deserved a little more, yeah.
Jenny:​ Only slightly ahead of those two with 12% of the vote, we have Joan of Arc
and God [cheering].
Kristin:​ You know, it probably would have been 14 except for there were like 2%
of people who were like a little scandalized. They were like, “Ah, okay, I'll vote for
that.”
Jenny: ​And then with a whopping 74% of the ​undeniable vote​, we have Giles, the
chainsaw and all of us! [cheering and applause] I think we all feel a little attacked
by that pairing.
Kristin: ​Yeah, that was a lot. That was a lot. I think about it still, and I think I'll
think about it forever. [laughter]
Jenny:​ It haunts my dreams.
Kristin:​ Um, shall I read the nominees?
Jenny: ​You're going to go for it.
Kristin: ​Do you want to share them with me? We'll go every other?
Jenny: ​Yeah. that sounds like a great plan. What could go wrong?
Kristin: ​Okay. Are you ready?
Jenny:​ So ready.
Kristin:​ The first nominee is Buffy and beer. [soft cheering]
Jenny: ​Nice, nice, nice.
Kristin: ​Yeah, it's like a live vote.
Jenny: ​The second nominee is Willow and feminism. [loud cheering] Okay, okay!


Kristin: ​It's pretty good, it's pretty good. Actually, this the order, you're really
getting both of the good ones.
Jenny: ​I don’t know, I like the one you’re about to read.
Kristin: ​The third one is Xander and his lighter. [laughter]
Jenny: ​They've got something special; I think it might last.
Kristin: ​Yeah, that's true.
Jenny:​ And the fourth nominee for this episode’s Sexual Tension Award is frat boys
and the sound of their own voices. [laughter and cheers] If you'd like to make your
voice heard, you can vote on our Twitter poll. We're @bufferingcast on Twitter.
Please stand up and be counted. Participate in ​Buffering​ democracy.
Kristin:​ New York City has made themselves clear: They vote for Willow and
feminism. [cheering] Oh, we know.
Jenny:​ But don't let them sway your vote—follow your heart!
Kristin:​ Um, listen, New York City, [cheering]
Jenny: ​You’re amazing!
Kristin:​ New York City has our heart. You're all the fucking best. This is the biggest
live show we've ever done. [cheering and applause]
Jenny:​ Thanks for selling it out.
Kristin:​ Yes, thank you for selling it out and making it so special. Thank you, Rocky
in the back for doing the sound!
Jenny: ​Hell yeah, Rocky!
Kristin: ​Thank you to everybody at Littlefield.
Jenny: ​For sure.
Kristin: ​Do I do I just say it now? Is it my new thing?
Jenny: ​Absolutely not! [shouts]


Kristin: ​Wait, wait, wait—Heather and Louis and Kathy, will you come up and help
howl out with us? [cheering and applause]
Jenny:​ Come to the stage! What's going to happen if, somehow—​just in case,​ ​ I​
Jenny and no one else, I'm going to stay “Till next time,” and we're all going to say,
“Awooo!” [crosstalk]
Kathy: ​I'm sorry; I just want to say we taught our cat to meow back at “Awooo.”
[cheering and applause]
Kristin: ​What!
Kathy:​ We did it just today, our cat Beth March.
Jenny:​ Holy...
Kristin:​ I need a video ​immediately​. Which cat? Oh, Beth March.
Kathy: ​But she did it a little better to “​Meowoo​.” [laughter] Alright. That's all.
Kristin:​ Okay, you have to get the rest of them too. Okay, as we “Awoo,” I’m going
to turn my mic around so y’all can “Awoo” with us as well, okay?
Jenny: ​Till next time…
Everyone: ​Awwwoooooooooo!
Kristin:​ Thank you, New York!
Jenny: ​Hell yeah!
[Jenny performing “Beer Bad,” off the album “Songs
from Season Four” by Buffering the Vampire Slayer]

Well it’s a lousy time in a young girl’s life
I spent one night, it didn’t go right
I been paying for my feelings with interest
For just one night, with the wrong guy


Now I’m staring at the TV, cause I was at the pub last night
Drowning all my feelings, drinking until I was like

BEER GOOD, FIRE BAD
BEER GOOD WHEN BUFFY SAD
BEER GOOD, FIRE BAD
BEER GOOD, BUFFY GET MAD
WHEN THERE’S NO BEER

Bad time, young girl’s life BOY SMELL NICE! BOY SMELL NICE!
Parker sucks, Parker lied
BOY SMELL NICE! BOY SMELL NICE!

Miss the people on the TV, miss the people in the pub last night
Drowning all my feelings, drinking until I was like

BEER GOOD, FIRE BAD
BEER GOOD WHEN BUFFY SAD
BEER GOOD, FIRE BAD
BEER GOOD, BUFFY GET MAD
WHEN THERE’S NO BEER

So, kids, what do I learn about beer in this episode?


Foamy!
Ok…

want beer, want beer, want beer, want beer

BEER GOOD, FIRE BAD
BEER GOOD WHEN BUFFY SAD
BEER GOOD, FIRE BAD
BEER GOOD, BUFFY GET MAD
WHEN THERE’S NO BEER

Parker sucks
Parker sucks.

