Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 6.18: Entropy
[CHIME]
Jenny: Hey! Everybody!
Kristin: [sings jaunty tune]
Jenny: [singing] Havin’ a good time! Yeah!
Kristin: [laughs] Well, we are having a good time, actually. Because—
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: The thing we needed—the very thing we needed to take a deep breath of
fresh air, to be able to sustain the balance of this season, is to speak with
somebody whose favorite season is this one. And we have—
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Truly, one of my all-time favorite podcast cohosts with us today. Who is it,
Jenny?
Jenny: Oh! It’s none other than Ira Madison III! [singing] I think you’re just what I
needed! [Kristin laughs] I needed Ira’s hot takes!
Kristin: So many hot takes. Like, literally—
Jenny: The hottest of takes!
Kristin: The closer we get to the end of the episode—
Jenny: [simultaneously] Don thy oven mitts, [Kristin laughs] dear listener. The
takes are so hot!
Kristin: We are so—like, I can’t even tell you, like, how much I personally needed
Ira in my life—
Jenny: Mmhmm.


Kristin: At this exact moment of our journey, so I’m just delighted. Before we get
into the episode, ‘cause I know that’s what all of you want now—who wants to hear
from us when you know that Ira’s on the other side of the theme song?
Jenny: Mmm-hmm!
Kristin: But a couple of things. You’re gonna definitely—even if you don’t wanna
listen to our episode on Seeing Red—understandable. I would tell ya to probably
listen to the introduction to it, because we’re gonna have some details on the next
live thing that we’re doing. Just teasing it a little. It is the day before—it’s the eve
of All Hallow’s Eve, that—if you wanna save that in your date books. And it is in the
geographical location of Philadelphia. So, you know. Put it in your—
Jenny: What—
Kristin: Take your little pens.
Jenny: Could be afoot?
Kristin: Your little pencils. Take your little books, your little—your little calendars.
Just jot it down there.
Jenny: [dramatically] We’re planning a heist of the Liberty Bell!
Kristin: [laughs] So—
Jenny: For our “bong!” We need a new bell for the pod.
Kristin: Ooh! Imagine we use the Liberty Bell for the gong?
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah. That’s what I’m saying.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Wow. There’d probably be a lot to talk about there,
actually. [laughs] The crack in the Liberty Bell that came from when Buffering the
Vampire Slayer used it for their podcast gong.
Jenny: Yes, of course.
Kristin: Yeah, tune in August 4th. We’re gonna give you all of those details. We’ve
got some things in the works and that’s the first one we’re gonna tell you about.
And hey, this is your reminder. It’s been a minute since we did any live events, and
now we are going to be doing live events again. If you’re a patron of ours, you get


the tickets first. You get advance ticket sales, so if you want your lil’ hands on those
lil’ tickets first, this is the time. ‘Cause the announcement’s going up next episode
for us, which is the 4th. And the tickets will be going on sale just a couple days
later. So if you wanna get in there, get on in there. It’s also the end of July, so if
you wanna hop on the next ultimate merchandise bundle, you gotta get in there
pretty soon. We’re doing a long sleeved t-shirt for the next—
Jenny: Wooooo!
Kristin: I know, it’s the first time—
Jenny: [simultaneously] Ow-ow-ow!
Kristin: We’ve never done a long sleeved t-shirt. Anyway, before we get to the
Sexual Tension Awards, I also wanna say. We mentioned up at the top of another
intro. We have a calendar on the website, bufferingthevampireslayer.com, where
we put up community events. This is part of our antiracist work, part of our
community building work. So there are a bunch of new events up there now for
you. They really run the gambit in terms of, like, the type of event, the focus of the
event, and all of that. And the one I just wanna put a spotlight on, it’s the next one
up on the calendar. It’s really cool. It goes from July until September. Mahogany L.
Browne is Lincoln Center’s first ever poet in residence, and Mahogany’s gonna be
curating monthly virtual and in-person events in a residency called We Are the
Work. The first one, the premiere, is July 24th at 7 PM, and it’s gonna be a panel
discussion on art as a form of social justice work. Leading art justice advocates are
gonna give tips and insight on how the practice of art can be transformative and a
powerful vehicle for change. So really, really cool. The link is in the show notes and
also bufferingthevampireslayer.com. You can see that event and a bunch of other
events in July and August that are really rad and are really great ways to spend
your time and great places to put your energy.
Jenny: And speaking of [Kristin laughs loudly] putting your energy places, it’s time
for the results of the most recent Sexual Tension Awards poll! We had a
very…[Kristin laughs] interesting round of noms in all of our slots last episode. They
all share the prefix “Xander, Spike and.”
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: In fourth place, with 16% of the vote, we have Xander, Spike and Releasing
Manly Things! I don’t even have to say anything about that. In the third slot, third
place, 21% of the vote, we have Xander, Spike and Alliterative Nicknames! [Kristin
laughs] I’m kinda disappointed to say, in second place—


Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: With 22% of the vote—
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: We have Xander, Spike and Getting a Bit of Truth on Them.
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah, I may have—I may have thrown the vote with my emojis.
Jenny: [groans]
Kristin: Because the next—the winner—you’re about to announce it—it came along
with the eggplant emoji, which I think—
Jenny: Oh! [laughing] Don’t you think there should have been an eggplant emoji in
each one of these?
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah, but I tried to get creative. So hey, listen—
Jenny: Ah.
Kristin: I’ve got the—Kristin, take the wheel.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: I’ve got the wheel, so—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Eggplant it was for this guy.
Jenny: You do as you must.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Okay. In first place, the number one slot with 41% of the vote, we’ve got
Xander, Spike and Altering His Reality.
Kristin: [laughs] Congratulations. Your eggplant-shaped trophies will be in the
mail, gentlemen!


Jenny: Ooh-ooh! Ow-ow!
Kristin: Real quick, before we roll into this conversation with Ira, we were planning
on opening our store today. But we had a little bit of a delay, so we’re opening
[laughing] the store next week, July 28th. So stay tuned, follow us on socials if you
don’t already, BufferingCast. Because [singsong] we got some new stuff and it
fucking rules, and yes it includes a patch. [sings tune]
Jenny: Kristin, did you perhaps intentionally mislead our audience, and make them
think the store was gonna open a week earlier in order to increase and allow for
additional building of tension?
Kristin: Oh, yes. Yes. The actual winner of the award is Kristin Russo and the
tension that she builds between her Scoobies [Jenny snorts] and their desire to put
hot—
Jenny: [laughing] Uh-huh.
Kristin: Hot merch on their—
Jenny: Hey.
Kristin: Perfect bodies.
Jenny: [laughing] All of our beautiful little noms wanna get inside those slots.
[Kristin laughs] And by slots, I mean new shirts!
Kristin: I don’t even know what we’re talking about anymore?
Jenny: Yeah…
Kristin: Speaking of—so the last thing. I usually read an email before we roll into
the episode. I’m actually gonna read a little bit of a tweet, because in the episode,
you’ll hear—
Jenny: [simultaneously] Oh! The modern email.
Kristin: [laughs] The modern—yes, the modern-day email. You’ll hear me,
in-episode, talking about the definition of entropy and being like, “uhh, it kinda
means this but also, what the fuck?” ‘Cause it’s—it’s just a deep hole. Somebody


sent us—Nicole said this “root beer float metaphor…[Jenny gasps] is the only thing
that’s ever gotten me to understand entropy.”
Jenny: I love root beer floats.
Kristin: As do I. So listen to this, okay? “Entropy, for information theorists, is
disorder.” Right. This episode fucking—we’ll talk about it. It’s a big, giant heap of
disorder. [Jenny laughs] “A system of low entropy with little disorder produces a
message. Likewise, a system of high entropy has lots of disorder and instead of
sending a message, it produces noise. A root beer float—scoops of vanilla ice cream
in dark brown root beer—when first made, has relatively low entropy because it
provides clear, unambiguous information and therefore sends a message about
where the root beer and where the ice cream are. When the ice cream melts and
the contents of the glass are stirred with a straw, the system has higher entropy,
more noise, because the order has disappeared, providing less detail and therefore
sending less information about the system as a whole. The systems become a
unit—”
Jenny: Wow!
Kristin: “Of undifferentiated parts, [Jenny gasps] a homogenized mixture of ice
cream and root beer.” So listen, I just—I know it’s, like, maybe a heavy way to
start the episode, a lot of science in your face. But I just thought it was great. It
was the only thing that I ever read that made me understand what the fuck entropy
is.
Jenny: Might I humbly add a far-too-late fifth nom into slot five? [Kristin laughs]
Xander, Spike and a Heap of Undifferentiated Parts.
Kristin: [laughs] Aw, they’d be so cute at the little counter, having their little
ice—their little root beer floats.
Jenny: Oh my god. [both laugh]
Kristin: Alright, shut the hell up, us two.
Jenny: Yeah. Let’s go!
Kristin: Let us get into the episode.
[Buffering theme plays]


Jenny: Oh! Hello and welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast where
we are watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, one by
one, spoiler free, in tandem with our BFFs, pics in the locker, also a wallet pic in the
wallet, Angel On Top! [Kristin laughs] I’m Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: And I’m Kristin Russo, and this week, we are still here, still standing,
talking about Season 6, Episode 18, Entropy. I’m just gonna stop here and say
that, like, we have some help. We have—we have someone to bring us some joy,
maybe? I don’t know. Ira Madison III, you are here with us.
Ira: [laughs] I’m back!
Kristin: I don’t know if you have joy to bring, but I’m glad you’re here. [laughter]
Ira: I do. You know what? I like this episode. [Kristin laughs]
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: Good, great. I mean, honestly—
Ira: Famously, I like Season 6, so. You know.
Kristin: Yeah. And we do too. I mean—and I promise, Jenny, don’t panic. I will
finish the introduction. [Jenny laughs] I’m a professional. I can detour and come
back. But—
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: We—I feel like we’ve been—like, we talk about Season 6 on, like, socials
and stuff, being like, “oh, fuck!” And people take it as like, “oh fuck, these episodes
suck.” And it’s like, no, no, no—
Ira: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Like, the—
Jenny: They’re just hard.
Kristin: They’re just really hard.
Ira: They’re rough to watch.


Kristin: Yeah.
Ira: It’s not Season 7, which I don’t wanna watch.
Kristin: Right. [Jenny and Kristin laugh]
Ira: So good luck with that. [laughs]
Kristin: Oh, no. Is it Ira’s last appearance in Buffering the Vampire Slayer?
Ira: [simultaneously] Good luck getting me back. [laughs]
Kristin: Yeah, you’re like—
Jenny: Noo!
Kristin: “Bye!” [laughter] Anyhow. If you stay tuned to the end of this
podcast—which you certainly should, since Ira is here with us—you’re gonna hear
an original song, written by Jenny, and she does that every other week because
she’s a champion.
Jenny: Mmm. [Kristin laughs] Mmm, Entropy was written by Drew Z. Greenberg
and directed by James A. Contner—
Kristin: There he is.
Jenny: And originally aired on April 30th, 2002. It’s worth noting that’s about six
weeks after our last episode, Normal Again, aired. Big break.
Kristin: We needed a fucking minute to recover from that shit.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Ira: Mmm.
Kristin: TV Guide describes this one—[laughs] I actually got a kick out of the
language that TV Guide used. [laughs] “Still smarting from being jilted at the altar
by Xander—still smarting from being jilted at the altar by Xander, Anya seeks
advice from Halfrek. Buffy tries to bond with Dawn while avoiding Spike. Andrew,
Jonathan and Warren experiment with a talisman. Willow asks Tara out for coffee.”
Ira: Mmm.


Jenny: Hmm.
Kristin: Here we are. Previously on Buffy the Vampire Slayer, my note is,
everything is horrible. [Kristin and Ira laugh]
Jenny: Everything is horrible. Also, I feel, like, a little…attacked that they’re using
Anthony Stewart Head’s voice in the Previouslys—
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: When Giles is long gone.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Ira: Mmhmm.
Jenny: How dare they.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Ira: Yeah. You know, I—I remember—obviously, as this being part of my youth,
right? It’s like, I feel like it was before you were used to—you know, this is the first
show I started, like, in middle school, ‘97. You’re not used to people leaving, right?
You’re like, everyone’s just on a show forever. [Kristin laughs]
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Ira: So—now as an adult, I would understand. As someone who works in TV, I
would understand Giles being gone. I’m like, okay, Anthony Stewart’s, like, been on
this show for years, he’s done. [Jenny and Kristin laugh] He needs a break.
Jenny: He’s tired!
Ira: But watching it when I was younger, I was always like, where’s Giles?
Kristin: Yeah.
Ira: This is weird.
Kristin: Yeah. I mean, I don’t work in television and I guess I understand it
logically. But I’m still upset that he’s not here. [Jenny laughs]


Ira: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Over in the land of Angel, we just got Cordelia back, actually, because
she—’cause Charisma was on her honeymoon.
Ira: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Ohh.
Kristin: And so she was—yeah, so all of the, like, oh right, these are real human
beings that are making decisions for their life.
Ira: Mm. So you’re in Season 3? Rough season for the first half. [Kristin laughs] I
would say.
Kristin: Oh, yes. Yes.
Ira: I also famously—I love Season 3 of Angel, the back end.
Kristin: Man, you just love—
Jenny: You love pain!
Ira: [simultaneously] And then I think the back end of Angel, Season 3, toward the
end of the series, is perfect for me.
Kristin: So you just like—as soon as the shit gets fucking miserable, Ira’s in.
Ira: [laughing] Yes!
Jenny: Ira says, “Hurt me. Please.” [laughter]
Ira: Yes. [laughs]
Kristin: I looked up the definition of the word entropy ‘cause I didn’t know what it
meant. And I have to say, I have left this experiment still with very little idea of
what it means, scientifically. It’s, like, this bananas scientific concept. But—
Ira: Mmhmm.


Kristin: It can be used to mean lack of order or predictability, a gradual decline
into disorder, which seems appropriate. I don’t know, if we have any, like, scientist
heads out there—and I know we do. Like, could you write me, like, the dummy’s
guide to the scientific version of—it’s very, like—
Ira: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Like, I felt like if I kept reading, I might time-travel, kind of science.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: You know? Yeah.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Ira: I think later in the series when they would use, like, a word like “entropy” for
the episode titles, I would get a little mad—with these later seasons, with that.
[Kristin laughs] ‘Cause I thought the episode titles used to be so, like, whimsical.
Kristin: Right? Halloween.
Ira: And—yeah.
Kristin: I know what that means.
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: I know what’s gonna happen there. [laughter]
Ira: Dead Man’s Party.
Jenny: Yes.
Ira: You know?
Kristin: Never Kill a Boy on the First Date. [laughs]
Ira: Yes.
Jenny: Words to live by.
Ira: Back when it was still camp, you know?


Kristin: Yes.
Ira: It was still satirizing camp, like—
Kristin: Yes.
Ira: Entropy…alright.
[Kristin laughs]
Jenny: You just wanna, like, faint on a couch or something?
Kristin: It was—yeah, yeah. So, well—gosh, Ira, we’re gonna have to gather a lot
of opinions from you, because it’s been a minute. And now we have, like—
Ira: Mmhmm.
Kristin: A Trio here that fucking kicks us off, tearing through the cemetery on
four-wheelers that have, like, stakes attached to the front. So, how—
Jenny: At the wrong height. Real dingdong squad shit going on here.
Kristin: Yeah.
Ira: [laughs] Yeah.
Kristin: Although I will say—and from a television writer’s perspective, I’m sure
you have thoughts on both the Trio and the fact that, I think for the first time,
we’re seeing a different part of this cemetery. There’s, like, big, ornate gates and a
fucking fountain, and I don’t think we’ve ever seen that before.
Ira: Mmhmm.
Kristin: So yeah, you can pick which one you wanna talk about. The fountain or
the fucking Trio? Good luck! [laughs]
Ira: [laughs] You know…every time I go back, I will say. This season was a little
slow. The—when they’re discovering cameras from the Trio by Episode 18. [Jenny
and Kristin laugh]
Jenny: [laughing] I mean…


Kristin: That are, like, in a fucking giant gnome and also in an open, gaping
eyeball—
Ira: Right.
Kristin: Of a skull. [laughs]
Ira: And they’ve been watching everyone, but haven’t really done anything with it.
[Jenny and Kristin laugh]
Jenny: Yeah!
Ira: It was a lot—like, when did they put these there? A week ago? It’s very—it’s a
little weird. [laughter] I don’t think anyone’s sufficiently creeped out from them
putting the cameras.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Ira: But didn’t Normal Again open with her, like, trying to go to their old lair?
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Ira: So maybe it’s new? I don’t know. But—
Kristin: Maybe? I mean, they did add the cameras to their new place. ‘Cause they
have, like, that screen of really high-tech Mac screens.
Ira: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Or that wall, rather, of really high-tech Mac screens.
Ira: Mmhmm.
Kristin: So maybe they put the cameras in last episode? But…I—
Ira: Maybe—within—it’s been six weeks. So, you know.
Kristin: That’s true. [Jenny and Kristin laugh.


Ira: Just a line establishing they’re new would have been nice. I guess when Buffy
sort of, like, notices the lawn gnome.
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah.
Jenny: [simultaneously] How do you not—
Ira: [simultaneously] But I don’t know how long that gnome’s been there.
Jenny: Notice a rogue gnome—
Ira: I know.
Jenny: That has just appeared?
Ira: Frankly. Lawn gnomes still creep me out, ‘cause of Goosebumps.
Kristin: Ohh.
Ira: There’s a book, Revenge of the Lawn Gnomes. That cover, it still creeps me
out. The lawn gnome—I’m looking it up. The lawn gnome in it looks like he’s, like,
playing rugby. [Kristin and Ira laugh] Oh, there’s a baseball in front of them, okay.
They look sporty.
Kristin: [simultaneously] I wanna see this. Oh, here they are. [laughs]
Ira: Yeah, sporty—
Jenny: [simultaneously] They look—they’re definitely the jock gnomes.
Ira: Yeah. Yeah, sporty gnomes. [Kristin laughs] Yeah, it’s nice seeing the Trio do
stuff. You know? ‘Cause I feel like there’s a lot of them not doing anything. Well, I
mean, killing women. But—[crosstalk]
[Kristin laughs]
Jenny: Sure, yeah.
Kristin: They did do that, yeah.
Ira: [simultaneously] Yes. But—yeah.


Jenny: [simultaneously] They’ve done plenty—enough of that.
Ira: At least they’re finally doing something. You know? Because I think one of the
chief complaints about the season is that, you know, they used to always have, you
know, the—the sort of mini-bad and then the big bad reveals themselves.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Ira: And this season, it’s really just them. It’s the big bad—
Jenny: [simultaneously] [laughs] Three mini-bads standing on each other’s
shoulders with a trench coat around them.
Kristin: Yeah, well—
Ira: Yeah. The big bad, I guess, is depression? [laughs]
Kristin: Yeah…
Jenny: Right, right, right, yes.
Kristin: That’s the real big bad of this season. I feel like if the Trio’s supposed to be
the patriarchy—and I’m playing the jingle at the end, so nobody get too fucking
excited. But, like, you know—
Ira: Mmhmm.
Kristin: It’s like, the pervasiveness of it all. Like, they’re just fucking there and
they’re there and they’re there, and slowly eroding away at the foundation of our
world. [laughs] Well, let me take us back to the fountain. I have a fountain fact,
because of course, my ridiculous 90s brain saw a fountain and was like, is it the
Friends fountain?! It’s not. [laughs] But I did find out that the Friends fountain is in
Hocus Pocus. So.
Ira: Mmm.
Kristin: There’s a fun fact. The first scene set us up for our, like, Spike/Buffy arc,
where he’s been—I think it’s been, like, two or three episodes that he’s just been
like, “Tell your fucking friends about us. Otherwise I will.” A man of mostly empty
threats with this. [laughs]


Jenny: Interesting that, like, now that they’re not sleeping together that he’s
pushing so hard for her to let them know that previously, they were sleeping
together, even though they’re not sleeping together anymore. But just so you
know, before, that was happening.
Kristin: Yeah. It’s ‘cause he feels, like, invalidated and like a joke and like people
will take him more seriously if he knows [sic] that Buffy had a bunch of sex with
him.
Jenny: Mmm.
Ira: Sure.
Kristin: Right? [laughter]
[Clip from episode plays]
[fighting sounds]
Spike: Save you the staking. All you gotta do is—
Buffy: I am not telling my friends about us.
Spike: Right, I’ll just be dropping him down to you then.
Buffy: You wanna tell them so badly? Go ahead. [staking noise] Know why?
I tried to kill my friends, my sister last week. Guess how much they hate me?
Zero. Zero much. So I’m thinking, sleeping with you? They’ll deal.
Ira: She’s done other things that they—that are worse than trying to kill them. To
be honest.
Jenny: Mmhmm!
Ira: [laughs] You know? If my friends aren’t mad at me for letting my boyfriend kill
Jenny Calendar, for instance.
Jenny: Mmm!
Kristin: [laughs] Ooh.
Ira: You know? [laughs]


Kristin: Ooh, that’s a…
Ira: But I’m stuck on the—the crux of why I do love this season but it frustrates me
is just the very 2002, um, TV morals on display.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Ira: Buffy, very distressed that she can’t sleep with Spike ‘cause she doesn’t love
him. And I’m like, girl, who cares? [Ira and Jenny laugh]
Kristin: Yeah. No, there is, there’s so much, like, sex-shamey stuff that happens
here.
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: And it—like, it’s even beyond—I mean, the bigger arc, of course, is just
like, she’s sleeping with Spike and she has so much shame over that. But there’s
also—
Ira: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Like, they talk about, like, the kinds of sex they have as, like—as though,
like, having anything but missionary style, hetero—
Ira: Right.
Kristin: No demons involved sex is, like, the only way to be good and—yeah.
Ira: Uh-huh. Which is wild because it’s like, she was having a lot of sex with Riley.
You know, but it’s a lot of, like, vampirism is sort of seen as, like, the no. You
know?
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Ira: It was sweet when she was in high school ‘cause it was like, Angel had a soul
or whatever. But you know, you then think about, like, Riley and the, like, sex
workers.
Kristin: Yeah.


Ira: You know, the vampire ones, you know?
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Ira: So that’s very—you know. It always goes that well of, you know, like, sleeping
with a vampire is very salacious and evil.
Kristin: Yes. Yes.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean, so much is made about, like, her being stressed
about her friends finding out that she’s been sleeping with Spike. Meanwhile, these
people have been spending time with Spike for, like, three seasons. Like,
collaborating in a non—sort of—
Ira: He kidnapped her in Season 5, in Crush. Like, and they weren’t done with him
after that. Like, he was helping them while Buffy was dead. So it’s, like—it’s very
weird.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Super weird.
Ira: And it all goes—we’ll get to that, but it all—yeah, it all feels very, you know,
like, weirdly moralistic. And, like, the stuff that Xander says about, like, sleeping
with this soulless thing?
Kristin: [simultaneously] Oof!
Jenny: [simultaneously] Ugh. Disgusting.
Ira: I’m like, it’s very much, what…man was responsible? [laughs]
Kristin: [simultaneously] Yeah. Right, ‘cause it’s, like—right. The thing that
pushes—the thing that pushes him to the place where he’s finally gonna kill Spike is
fucking that he had sex—like, that—yeah.
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: We’ll get there. I know, but like, yes. It’s all rooted in this very weird—


Jenny: Blegh!
Kristin: Sex moral place. Xander, like, the king of that mountain, I think. Like, the
king of the sex moral mountain is Xander Harris. [laughs]
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: Speaking of Xander Harris.
Jenny: Yeah. You know that thing when you’ve just gone through a breakup
because you made some very poor decisions and you’re sitting on your apartment
floor, drinking lots of beer. And then eventually, you leave your apartment to go be
sad somewhere else. And whoopsie-daisy, your ex is just hanging out in the
bushes, watching you [Ira laughs] with what seem to be recently lightened
eyebrows?
Ira: [simultaneously] Everyone’s so creepy this week!
Jenny: What’s up with her eyebrows? They’re disappearing.
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: I don’t know. Anya—
Jenny: Her hair in this episode is also particularly wild.
Kristin: It is.
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: It is. It’s extra curly, and also, she’s always wearing red. But like, red
that—I’m fine with Anya in red. But it’s weird—it’s like—
Jenny: Do you feel like it’s a deliberate, “and then she had sex with someone who’s
not her boyfriend! Because of course she does ‘cause she’s wearing red!”
Kristin: [simultaneously] Oh my god. It’s, like, a fucking—she’s just a walking
scarlet letter.
Ira: Yeah.


Kristin: Yeah. Yeah, there’s something—but it also just doesn’t look like Anya. Like,
this—especially this first look. She’s in, like, a fucking red coat with a fur collar. It’s
all very…
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: I get what they were going for, I guess. But not a big fan of the Anya looks
in this episode. [laughs]
Ira: Also. You know, like, she’s hanging out with her girlfriends in the episode. A lot
of stuff Anya deserved happened in this episode.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Ira: Friends who aren’t mean to her.
Kristin: Mmhmm!
Ira: That’s why I wish Cordelia was still around. ‘Cause she could have been friends
with Anya—
Kristin: Oh my god, Anya—[exhales]
Ira: Even just, like, The Wish stuff. You know? But it’s like—it’s sort of like them.
Like, people in this group of weirdos…
Kristin: Mmhmm.
[Jenny laughs]
Ira: Who are mean to, like, the funny, hot girl. [Kristin laughs] Just like they did
Cordelia, just like they did Anya. Like, Anya’s great.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Mmhmm!
Kristin: Well, and I mean, the reason that we would love to see Anya and Cordy is
also the reason that I think—I mean, listen. A complicated thing with Spike and
Anya, but like, I love to fucking see it. Because they’re—they are, like, genuinely
truth speakers. And, like—


Ira: True.
Kristin: Right? They say everything that they’re fucking thinking.
Ira: And the two best actors on the show, currently.
Kristin: Yeah…
Jenny: Woo!
Ira: Emma Caulfield—
Kristin: Woo. Sarah Michelle Gellar—Sarah Michelle Gellar takes a little bit of a
burn from that, I think. [Ira laughs] I would like to push back a little bit on Sarah
Michelle Gellar—
Ira: Oh, absolutely. Absolutely. And I’m a Sarah Michelle Gellar diehard. [Kristin
laughs] I just defended her recently on Keep It to my cohost, who thinks that, like,
people who obsess over Sarah Michelle Gellar [Kristin laughs] are really just
obsessed with Buffy. And like, there’s nothing else in the oeuvre.
Kristin: Ooh.
Ira: I love her. I really do, but at this current time—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Ira: In the cast, Emma and James are the two best actors on the show.
Jenny: Wow.
Ira: And that’s why it’s so fun seeing them together, too.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Mmhmm. Oh my god, it’s—
Ira: [simultaneously] ‘Cause they make that scene—they make it believable.
Jenny: Mmhmm.


Kristin: It’s so good. It’s so fucking—I mean, I cannot argue. It is just a delight to
watch them together. We’ll get there. We wanna get there now. I mean—that’s how
I felt when I got to the end of the episode. Like, I had taken notes the whole time
and then I got to the end. [Ira laughs] I’m like, okay, none of these fucking notes
even matter. It’s really just the fucking—[laughs]
Jenny: [laughing] Yeah, who gives a shit?
Kristin: Yeah, who cares? Let’s give a nod to the next moment where we get
introduced to fucking Tara and Willow, who—first of all, a note. Tara is wearing the
leather jacket that Dawn stole for Buffy in previous episode.
Jenny: [gasps twice]
[Ira laughs]
Kristin: Note it, note it. [Jenny gasps] I don’t know what story you wanna write for
it. She went back and bought it, who knows.
Ira: They can’t return everything. [Kristin laughs] ‘Cause it’s been worn.
Kristin: [laughing] That’s true. She—
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Ira: But Dawn does not get to have them. Is the twist.
[Kristin laughs]
Jenny: [simultaneously] Yeah, so they have to be distributed.
Ira: I don’t know if anyone—I don’t know if you’ve all discussed. You know, but
like, a lot—I feel like a lot of people went through, like, a teen little thieving phase.
You know?
Kristin: Oh, yes.
Ira: And it’s like, some of that stuff, like, you can’t return. And it’s funny when you
watch on TV and films, it’s always—I feel like it’s some executive or someone being
like, to make them good, you know, it has to be—you have to return the stuff to
the store. You know, shame them, and whatever. But I’m like, most of the things
you steal cannot be returned. [Kristin laughs] Like, what are you gonna do with it?


Jenny: Like lip gloss?
Ira: Be like, “ooh, I stole this thing.” Like, great. Like, if you’ve worked at any
store, you know capitalism, you know retail. You return the thing you stole,
someone’s gonna be like, “okay.” And then it will probably just get, like, thrown out
or sent back to a warehouse to be destroyed anyway—
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Ira: Because no one’s gonna wear it.
Kristin: Right.
Ira: They’re not gonna resell it.
Kristin: No. It’s been—it’s gonna go in, like, the bargain bin that’s by the cash
register. You know? Like—
Ira: Yeah. Loss prevention has already—they’ve already gotten their money back
for it. [Kristin laughs]
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: Yes, I have stolen things and I have never returned a single thing that I
have stolen.
Ira: Right.
Kristin: That would be foolish. Well, especially the cigarettes, which of course I
couldn’t return ‘cause I smoked. [laughs]
[Jenny snorts]
Ira: Yeah, here’s the box. [laughter]
Kristin: Just in case you wanna, like, fill it up and use it again. [laughter] All for
the environment. But yeah, Tara and Willow are…they’re getting back together. It
cannot be denied.


Ira: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And Tara—so, Tara’s, like, really fucking confident. And I don’t know—like,
Ira, we were talking before we—
Ira: Best she’s ever looked.
Kristin: Right?
Ira: Yes.
Kristin: She looks amazing and she is just—
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Ira: She looks amazing. Last time, we were seeing Tara—like, when I was
here—they were giving her, like, the frumpiest clothes.
Kristin: Oh my god.
Ira: They were ill-fitting.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Ira: She looked like renaissance faire lite. [laughter] It was not good. Like, she is
looking hot in this episode!
Kristin: And she has been for the last few—
Ira: Yes.
Kristin: Like, the breakup treated Tara fucking great. She is—
Ira: Yeah, it was like, okay, here’s the time for the glow-up. [Kristin laughs] You
can look good now that you’re single. [Jenny laughs] Kissing girls on the cheek, you
know, being very French. [laughter]
Kristin: Yeah. And Willow is the one that’s just like—[babbles] like, so nervous,
doesn’t know what to say to her—
Jenny: Oh, yeah.


Ira: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Doesn’t know how to ask her out.
Jenny: Total mess.
Kristin: I appreciate this for the cuteness. I think—personally, I just feel like these
two had a very significant relationship. So I would think that if they were to come
back together again, it probably wouldn’t include, like, Willow being like, [laughs
nervously] “Do you wanna get coffee?” Like, it’s cute. But I just—[Ira laughs] I
think it would more be, like, a very serious conversation.
Ira: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Like, I’m interested in getting back together and what the fuck do we do
about that? But. [laughs]
Ira: If I could say, a lot of—no disrespect to Drew Z. Greenberg, who I adore. And
we know that he probably didn’t even do all the final dialogue, anyway.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Ira: Because that’s also how TV works and this is, you know, his third episode.
But—also, I’m still not really clear on who was running this damn season. [laughter]
Was it Joss? Was it Marti? Was it halfway—like, it’s a lot going on.
Kristin: Yes.
Ira: But I feel like she was running the room and he was doing edits at the end.
Jenny: Mmm.
Ira: But a lot of the episode feels very, um, spec script, written by, like—
Kristin: Mmm.
Ira: You know, a TV writer trying to get hired. Because it’s like, you would lean on
Willow being that flustered Willow that we grew up with—
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Yeah.


Ira: Talking like that in a scene. But like, you two were in a relationship for years.
You’re a grown adult now. You’ve had your confidence. You know, like, you’re
abusing witchcraft.
Kristin: Yes. [Ira laughs] Serious shit!
Ira: A former witch drug addict. [Kristin laughs] In recovery.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Ira: I don’t think she’d be talking like that!
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: No, no, no, no. [laughs]
Kristin: Yes, agree. Agree. I love this—I love the—I feel like we get this from, like,
LaToya in the Angel On Top space. Like, I—not that I don’t think about what’s
happening in the writers’ room, but I have no reference point for it.
Ira: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And nor do you, Jenny, and so it’s just—it’s really very fun to think about,
like, oh. Like, here’s a reason why this might have been awkward—
Ira: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Like, Willow might have been awkward.
Ira: Yeah. It’s like, you’re going into Willow’s quote-unquote “voice,” but like,
Willow should have matured from that voice. A long time ago.
Jenny: Mmhmm. Mmhmm.
Kristin: Right, and has. Right.
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: And we’ve seen that she has. Like, they’ve all been through literal hell.
Like—


Ira: Okay, I mean, she snapped at Giles.
Jenny: Hoo-ooh-ooh! [laughter]
Kristin: And wow. The fucking snap to Giles heard round the world.
Ira: Mmhmm.
Jenny: [singsong] Yes!
Kristin: So, does anybody else wanna talk about Buffy’s fucking jeans in this next
fucking scene at the mall? Also—
Jenny: Oh my goodness.
Kristin: Any thoughts on what mall this is in Sunnydale?
Jenny: Oh, it’s Santa Monica…
Kristin: It’s a Santa Monica mall?
Ira: Yeah. Yeah, it’s very much that west side, outside mall. You know?
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Ira: It’s not the Grove, it’s not—
Kristin: That’s why—I was like, is it the Grove? No, it’s not the Grove. [Kristin and
Jenny laugh]
Ira: No. It would have been too busy. They’re not shutting down the Grove for
shooting. [Kristin laughs]
Jenny: No, no, no.
Ira: They don’t shut down the Grove for shooting anything, unless it is Extra with
Martin Lopez. And even then, people are just walking around in the background.
Kristin: Nice to know—


Ira: Yeah. [Jenny laughs]
Kristin: Nice to know where their priorities lie. [laughs]
Ira: Yeah, yeah. You gotta keep the mall going!
[Kristin and Jenny laugh]
Kristin: But yeah, these fucking jeans. I’m sorry. I know it’s not a plot point.
Jenny: Oh my lord.
Kristin: But they’re like—I lived through these years, we all did. And I know that a
lot of things happened. We see Willow in, like, a sweatshirt that’s been cut but then
re-hemmed to be like a “cool” sweatshirt. That all happened, I can vouch for that.
These jeans have, like, words on them? They look like, um…Nickelodeon jeans. You
know what I mean? [laughs]
Jenny: Mm!
Ira: A lot of bad 2002 fashion.
Jenny: The thing about the mall—I was telling Kristin—Ira, I don’t wanna pressure
you into anything you don’t wanna do. But there is an exchange of dialogue that
was in the script, but got cut—
Ira: Mmm.
Jenny: From the episode. And I’ve prepared a small script and I thought, if I could
possibly entice you—[laughing]
Ira: Absolutely.
Jenny: To either be…[laughs] to be A. the narrator, B. Buffy, or C. Dawn.
Whatever’s most appealing to you.
Kristin: First pick.
Ira: I’ll be Dawn.
Jenny: [excitedly] Yes! That’s what I wanted! [laughter] Amazing, okay.


Kristin: I was like, Ira—if Ira’s gonna do it, then he can play Dawn. And Jenny was
like, well, I think Ira should choose. And it all worked out for me in the end.
[laughs]
Jenny: Okay, I’m gonna drop a little Google doc link.
Kristin: I’ll narrate. You can be Buffy, Jenny.
Jenny: Okay, I’ll be Buffy. Got it, okay—
Kristin: [simultaneously] Where are you putting this for us?
Jenny: In the chat.
Kristin: In the chat. There we go, now I got it.
Ira: I see it.
Jenny: [simultaneously] A geriatric millennial.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Oh my god, Jenny, you did so much—you did so much
work on this. It’s color-coded! [laughs]
Jenny: Yes. I color-coded it. Okay, so here—here is the part of the shop—the mall
shopping scene that was cut, with me in the role of Buffy, Ira in the role of Dawn.
And Kristin reading the, um—Ira, what’s the technical term for the stuff that’s not
dialogue in a script?
Ira: It’s just the action across it—
Jenny: Action!
Kristin: I’m reading the action. It actually is—
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: And I think, like, it is an important scene that was cut.
Jenny: Yeah, I feel like it gives context to stuff that happens later that we don’t
get, a little bit.
Ira: Mmhmm.


Jenny: Okay, so. Doo-doo-doo, here we are. Me and Ira walking, outdoor mall.
[Kristin snorts] “And you know—”
Kristin: That’s my job. [laughs]
Jenny: [laughs] Well, it’s not on the page so I was just trying to give context. [as
Buffy] “And you know, maybe in a couple months, they’ll let us visit the leather
birthday jacket.”
Kristin: [as narrator] “A young mother pushing a baby stroller calmly cuts across,
about to bump into Dawn, who is looking at a store. Buffy takes Dawn’s arm to
steer her out of the way. Dawn jumps ever so slightly at Buffy’s touch, startled.
They both stop, looking at each other, embarrassed, realizing what just happened.”
Jenny: [as Buffy] “Oh! That wasn’t—I was just—sorry.”
Ira: [as Dawn] “No, no. I’m sorry.”
Kristin: [as narrator] “They walk for a moment in silence. The mood has changed,
become strained.”
Jenny: [as Buffy] “I would never—”
Ira: [as Dawn] “I know. You weren’t you.”
Kristin: [as narrator] “They walk for another moment. More silence. Then Buffy
forces herself to snap out of it, tries to lighten the mood.”
Jenny: [as Buffy] “Okay. You know what we need?”
Ira: [as Dawn] “What?”
Kristin: [as narrator] “Regarding the food court, which we see ahead.”
Jenny: [as Buffy] “Warm, chocolate chip cookies. Just as warm as puppies, and
somewhat tastier.” So—
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: I feel like later—like, we got a lot of, like, “previously, in the basement.”
And then we get some post-basement, like, trauma. But I feel like this little bit that


got snipped out kind of, like, gives just a little bit more of specifically, like, the
Buffy/Dawn dynamic.
Ira: Mmhmm.
Jenny: You know, Buffy is her protector, Buffy is her caretaker, Buffy is her literal
legal guardian. You know?
Ira: Mmhmm.
Jenny: And…
Kristin: Well, and it adds a little bit of, like—I think it’s nice to see the nuance,
because Dawn jumps. And like, it’s implied that, like, yeah, even though she
knows—like, logically, she knows not to be afraid, there is still, like, the lived
trauma of having almost been killed by your fucking sister. Which is—’cause without
this scene, we just go right to the scene in the kitchen where she’s like, “It’s fine, I
know it wasn’t you.” And it’s like, well…[laughs]
Ira: Yeah, exactly. They don’t—and it’s like, they’re not living in anything because
they’re just trying to move on to the next plot point.
Kristin: Yes. Yes. Yes.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: How much upsetting content can we cram into 45 minutes of television,
every other week?
Jenny: So much, actually.
Kristin: [sighs] Alright, so to the lair we go.
Jenny: Bunsen burners!
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah.
Jenny: Beakers full of colorful potions! How exciting—
Kristin: Fun.
Jenny: In the nerd lab.


Kristin: Do we think—I mean. The, like, queerness of Andrew is coming more to
the fore in this episode. I mean, not—
Ira: Yes. ‘Cause I—well, I—so this is what I was gonna mention, is there’s an
interview with Drew Greenberg, which is in his, um, Wikipedia bio as well. Where he
said, “I have never written an original pilot script that didn’t have at least one gay
character in it, even if I was the only one who knew that character was gonna be
gay. Telling stories about gays and lesbians is a priority of mine.” He was always
proud to, like, work homosexual characters into a script. And I feel like, maybe they
decided in the room that, like, Andrew was gonna be gay. But I feel like also maybe
he was a person who would—I mean, I’d love to ask him about it.
Kristin: Yeah!
Ira: At some point. But who was sort of, like, “I would like Andrew to be gay.” You
know?
Kristin: Yeah.
Ira: And was sort of leaning into it. But also, Tom Lenk is gay, so—
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Ira: You know, maybe they were just more leaning into that with him back. But
they were really—you know, like, the jokes about it—you know, like—I think are
really there. Especially—later in the episode, especially, when it’s like—
Kristin: Yes.
Ira: You know, they’re really leaning hard into “Andrew’s gay.”
Kristin: A thousand percent. That—and I think that’s it. Because we’ve gotten—you
know, we’ve had moments that are, like, “well, I guess you could maybe…” but I
haven’t even been willing to, like, talk about Andrew in this space, like, as gay.
Because I’m like, am I—is it, like, a spoil—but it’s like, this gives it—
Ira: In this one, you know he’s gay. Like, the scene where—
Kristin: [simultaneously] Yes. You know now.


Jenny: Oh, yes.
Ira: The scene where he’s like, “Spike’s cool.” [Jenny giggles] And then he’s like,
“Oh, the girl’s hot too.”
Kristin: Right.
Ira: That’s gay behavior. [laughter]
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah.
Kristin: Yeah, and that—
Jenny: Yeah, he definitely has big, like, “Oh, I couldn’t hear you over the clattering
of my wife’s breasts” vibes. You know?
Kristin: [laughing] Oh my god, Jenny.
Jenny: “I’m familiar with the naked female form, of course I am.” [Ira laughs]
Kristin: But my—like, my question to that end—because I think we can, like,
definitively read Andrew as queer, whatever—is—Andrew is, like, really on Warren’s
side. And not to excuse it. I mean, it’s fucked up. They fucking killed a girl. Like, it’s
all fucked up.
Ira: Mmhmm.
Kristin: But like, in this scene, it’s like, Jonathan—not in this scene, but in general,
at this point. Jonathan is like, “I’m gonna do this spell and it’s to get the fuck away
from you.” And he’s been, like, really fucked up—
Ira: Uh-huh.
Kristin: Since everything happened with Katrina.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Whereas Andrew is very much just like—
Ira: Katrina fucked me up too. You know? I was living in New Orleans then.


[pause]
Kristin: Oh. I was, like, thinking about tiny—[Ira laughs] I was thinking about tiny
you watching the show. I was like, tell us, Ira. Tell us how you felt about Katr—
Ira: I’m just being an asshole, as usual. [laughter] I mean. Can we just say it? Is
Andrew attracted to Warren?
Kristin: Yes. That’s what I’m ask—right?
Ira: [simultaneously] Yes. Yes. Yes.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Oh, for sure. For sure, for sure.
Kristin: [simultaneously] It’s the only reason—
Ira: Which is wild. He’s kind of hot, but he was—I feel like Warren was hot before.
Now he’s, like…he creeps me out.
Kristin: He’s a fucking—
Jenny: I think he’s, like—
Ira: [simultaneously] I can’t be attracted to any of that. ‘Cause I mean, he’s creepy
from the first moment we, like, see him. Right?
Kristin: Yeah. He’s building robots.
Ira: [simultaneously] ‘Cause his first appearance is in—yeah, I Was Made to Love
You.
Jenny: I Was Made to Love You.
Ira: Yeah. That’s—that’s creepy!
Kristin: Yeah. He’s been a fucking creep since the beginning. But I think that
Andrew has, like, a power thing—I mean. [laughs] Whatever, everybody has a
power thing. But I think—
Ira: Very Stanford prison experiment.
Kristin: He’s—[laughs]


Jenny: Yes.
Ira: Yes.
Kristin: But yeah, I think he just has—I think he likes—I think he’s attracted to
people who are in charge. And Warren, as much of a fucking asshole as he—not
even an asshole. Beyond asshole. He’s just a fucking evil human—is in charge.
Ira: Mmhmm. Wait, I’m sorry. You know what—[laughs] maybe I don’t pay enough
attention to the episode Family. But I did not know Tara’s last name was Maclay.
[laughs]
Kristin: Oh. [laughter]
Ira: What a name! [laughter]
[AD BREAK]
Kristin: Alright, so my main note that recurs in almost every scene in this episode
is “oof.” O-O-F, because oof.
Ira: Mm.
Kristin: I think this is my first oof, which is Xander and Anya. We get them
together in this fucking scene. Xander’s like, “I should have said something earlier.”
And he tries to be—like, he’s like, “I should have been honest with you before.” But
then of course digs himself into a classic Xander grave, which is just, like—
Ira: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Anya being like, “Well, what would you have told me before? Do you
wanna fucking get married?”
Ira: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And he’s like, “It’s complicated.” And she’s like, “Actually, it’s fucking not.”
Ira: Mmhmm.
Kristin: “Like, do you wanna fucking get married or do you not?” And he doesn’t.
He doesn’t.


Ira: He sucks.
Kristin: He wants to date…the woman that he left…at the aisle.
Ira: [simultaneously] At the altar. And here’s what—
Jenny: Oh, Xander, you fool.
Ira: Why…you know…[Kristin laughs] I hate him.
Jenny: He’s never gonna do better than Anya.
Ira: I know. I hate him.
Kristin: Yeah. He had, like, a moment where we were, like, almost there for him.
And then he just came sliding down the back of that hill. [laughs]
Ira: Listen. Yes, there’s a moment where, if you tell her you’re not sure about the
wedding, but you still wanna be together. There’s a moment where that could have
happened. And he had those moments leading—we saw those moments leading
up—
Kristin: Yeah.
Ira: To the wedding.
Kristin: Yeah.
Ira: The minute you leave someone at the altar, I think it’s over. [laughs]
Kristin: It’s done. It’s fucking done. Yeah, I could not agree more.
Jenny: I do really like where the writing and the performance intersect here, as
he’s sort of, like, making his grand statement. But then immediately jamming his
foot in his mouth and—with the sort of, like, sputtering and backpedaling, and like,
the fear in his eyes and the freezing-up. You know?
Ira: He loves that.
Jenny: [simultaneously] I think he did a great job.


Kristin: [laughing] He does love that. He was like, what is this unfamiliar feeling of
knowing what I’m about to say? Oh good, it’s gone, I can be Xander again.
[laughter] Yeah, and Anya, of course, learns that she cannot make—she can’t enact
vengeance on her own behalf.
Ira: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: And I mean, Emma Caulfield is fucking brilliant in this whole fucking
episode. She’s amazing in this moment, where she’s, like, wishing and wishing.
Wishing for all these shitty things.
Jenny: I love the wish that he had tentacles where his beady eyes should be.
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: That’s the top of the pile for me.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Ira: I love when they reference his beady eyes.
Kristin: [laughing] Yeah.
Jenny: [laughs] Does Nick Brendon have beady eyes? Do you experience his eyes
as “beady,” Ira?
Ira: Beady eyes has always been an insult, and I don’t even think I know what
beady eyes means. [inaudible]
Kristin: Like, does it mean they’re very shiny? Or does it mean they’re small? Does
it mean—yeah.
Ira: Yeah.
Jenny: I would think small and, like, close together or something. [Kristin laughs]
Ira: Mmhmm.
Jenny: But Nick Brendon has, like, big, brown eyes, right?


Kristin: Yeah.
Ira: Mmhmm. Yeah.
Kristin: I don’t understand why Anya doesn’t slam the door on her way out. Like,
that was, like, a—
Jenny: [laughs] She just leaves it open.
Kristin: She just leaves it open and I thought—I don’t know why I thought about it
for so long. ‘Cause I was like, maybe they wanted him to look down the hallway at
her. But then I was like, but what would have been the difference if he was looking
at the slammed door versus looking down the hallway? It was just, like, a weird
choice. And then, you know, we get a little bit of Halfrek. How—
Ira: Halfrek!
Kristin: What are your feelings on Halfrek? Yeah, how do you feel about Hallie?
Ira: I love her—well, this is what I mean. Like, a cute friend, a girlfriend.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Ira: She’s fun.
Kristin: She is fun.
Jenny: No one else—
Ira: Spike’s ex-lover.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: [exhales] Yes.
Jenny: No one else in the group knows what it’s like to have a friend outside of the
group. So it’s—
Ira: No!


Jenny: [laughing] Really nice to—
Ira: Which is a common TV thing, obviously, and it’s always funny. It’s like,
they—there’s always jokes when there’s a new person. It’s like, who is this?
[laughter] Which is funny and meta, but you know, it’s really like, yes, none of
these people have other friends.
[Jenny laughs]
Kristin: Yes. Well, that—I mean, that’s why, again, like, jumping ahead. But like, I
like to hear—I like to see Hallie and Anya. But more so, like, I just
delight—regardless of the fucking, I love to see demon Anya—which we should say,
right? Like, I mean—
Ira: Mmhmm.
Kristin: It’s obvious, but we see that her face changed in the last scene. So she
has made the choice to—because I don’t think we knew that until that moment,
right?
Ira: Mmhmm.
Kristin: That she made the choice to go back to vengeance demon. But like, I love
to see vengeance demon Anya and fucking vampire Spike talk about the Scoobies.
When Anya’s like, “Yeah, I fucking hate us.” Like—[laughs]
Ira: They suck!
[Jenny laughs]
Kristin: It’s good! It’s good. But yeah, so Anya needs to make the—Anya needs to
find somebody to make the wish for her. And so our plot, uh, moves forward.
Ira: Mmhmm. Very funny.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Ira: Funny scene. I also love the—[laughs] when Halfrek is like, “Girl. You know,
like, you don’t just need women.” [laughter]
Kristin: Yes. Oh my god.


Jenny: Halfrek begs her to expand her horizons.
Ira: Yeah, men need vengeance too!
Kristin: [simultaneously] Fucking, like, Anya doing, like, absolute backflips—
Jenny: [laughing] Gymnastics.
Kristin: Trying to figure it out. Like, “I’ll turn Spike into a woman and then…” Like,
and fucking Hallie’s like—
Jenny: “And then I can finally grant his wish.” [laughs]
Kristin: Yeah, you don’t—you don’t need to do that.
Ira: Mmhmm. Yeah.
Jenny: So, over at Summers HQ, Buffy shows and not tells us what her
interpretation of a balanced breakfast is. And it includes, but is not limited to,
pancakes, an enormous bowl of fruit salad, three boxes of cereal, and about eight
to ten pieces of toast.
Kristin: It’s like a continental fucking breakfast. She’s only stayed at hotel—at like,
a low—
Ira: Only ever happens on TV. [Kristin and Jenny laugh] Right? Like, even when
someone’s making it up to you and they’re making, like, a breakfast or something,
it’s usually, like…my best friend, for instance, Royce. Who’s my roommate. When
I—when I need to make up for something, like, I know his macha order.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Ira: And I know his breakfast burrito order, and I know his Starbucks order.
[Kristin laughs] It’s one of those, you know?
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Yes.
Ira: It’s not, here’s a whole bunch of food that I’m not sure if you’re gonna eat but
I’m just cooking it ‘cause I need something to do. And also, you need a visual cue
[laughter] for TV that I am trying to make it to you. You know?


Jenny: I got you three bushels of carbs.
Ira: Yeah. [laughter]
Jenny: Please, enjoy.
Ira: Who’s gonna eat this bowl of—all these bowls? Come on.
Kristin: No. No. All the syrups is really where it goes off the fucking rails.
Ira: Yeah.
Jenny: No, no, no.
Kristin: They’re not different, they’re all the same. They’re all—
Jenny: No, no, no, no.
Kristin: They’re all corn syrup syrups, so you know. [laughter]
Jenny: But Dawn doesn’t want a breakfast burrito. Dawn doesn’t want macha.
Dawn wants to go patrolling with her sister.
Kristin: It’s a fair—
Jenny: Dawn wants—[laughs]
Kristin: It’s a fair request.
Jenny: To jump into the fray, as it were.
Kristin: I think it’s a fucking—I am, like, Team fucking Dawn. I have to say. I
support her request. She makes a good case for herself. “You were doing this at my
age.”
Ira: Granted, you were a Slayer, but Willow and Xander—
Kristin: Yes!
Ira: Were doing it at her age.


Jenny: Yeah. Yep.
Ira: And they’re useless.
Kristin: Yes.
Ira: They were doing it at her age and frankly, are still at the same fighting level.
[laughter] So…
Jenny: Dude, yeah, like, take some—
Ira: Going back to Checkpoint. Xander had never took a single ounce of a martial
arts class, did he?
Jenny: I mean…what a waste of fucking time.
Kristin: [simultaneously] No. No training whatsoever, whatsoever.
Ira: None. None! A modern version of the show would have been like, alright. Like,
you can have these civilians with you, but, like…they gotta train!
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: They actually do that—in the Boom—that’s, like, one of the things I
remember from the beginning of the Boom comics—was that the Boom comics has
Xander and Willow in the fucking training room.
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: And I was like, exactly! [laughs]
Jenny: Thank god.
Ira: Learn how to fight.
Kristin: Learn how to fight—
Ira: Or else you’re gonna die!
Kristin: You’re gonna be doing it for a long time.


Ira: Mmhmm. Even though I always wonder, like, how do these vampires know
how to fight? Come on.
Jenny: I—
Kristin: Well, I mean, the ones—
Ira: Every single one?
Jenny: [laughs] Every single one.
Kristin: [laughing] The ones from this episode did not. There’s a moment when
they’re, like, going on the four-wheelers through the cemetery. And the one
vampire takes, like, what is a twig with some leaves on it and, like, throws it in
front of the four-wheeler. [laughter] It’s—those two did not know how to fight,
actually. So. [laughter] Oh gosh. So should we go to the Espresso Pump? The E
Pump?
Ira: Mmm.
Jenny: Yes. Speaking of Checkpoint.
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: This, like, rang major Checkpoint bells for me, when the Council members
are—have everybody separated and they’re interrogating them. And it’s like, lots
and lots of cutting back and forth and the answers kind of bleeding into each other.
We get kind of the same—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Treatment here, as Anya visits Willow and Tara, and Dawn, and Buffy,
[laughing] and tries to get all of them to wish for something terrible to happen to
Xander. Yes.
Ira: She should’ve visited me! [laughter]
Kristin: Literally, she should have visited any of us. [laughter]
Ira: Well, it’s also like—the funny part is like, ooh, who hates him? Like—I’m like,
who can say something about him? You know? If you knew other people—


Kristin: Mmhmm.
Ira: I’m sure there’s plenty of people, in Sunnydale, who do not like Xander. [Jenny
laughs]
Kristin: Oh my god. Fucking, call up Cordelia. She’s only in Los Angeles.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: She’ll probably make that fucking wish for you.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Although I guess she’s all, like, a fucking demon so maybe she’s using
her—
Ira: I don’t guess they…ever interact again, do they?
Kristin: I don’t think so.
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: No.
Ira: It’s good for her.
Kristin: It is. I think—yes.
Ira: Why would you interact with your high school boyfriend?
Jenny: Yeah. [crosstalk]
Kristin: [laughs] Especially if your—
Ira: And she only interacts with these other high school people that she, like, hung
out with for some reason, [laughter] when they truck over to LA to bother her.
[laughter] Usually when Buffy comes to LA to be a bitch.
Kristin: Yes, yes—
Ira: For no reason!


Kristin: Mmhmm.
Ira: To everybody! [laughter] Or Oz or, you know, uh…
Kristin: Willow?
Ira: Or Willow. Yeah. So—
Kristin: Yeah, Oz, like, delivers the ring, right?
Ira: Yes.
Jenny: Right.
Ira: The Gem of Amara!
Kristin: Yes. [laughter] I would like to play—[sighs] I would like to play two Anya
sound clips about lesbians. I’m gonna—this isn’t how they go in the show, but I’m
gonna play them back to back.
[Clips from the show play]
Anya: You’re lesbians, so the hating of men will come in handy. Let’s talk
about Xander.
Tara: Well, I guess it’s natural for guys to be interested in—
Anya: God, what kind of lesbians are you? If you love men so much, go love
men!
Jenny: A very fast turnaround.
Kristin: It’s good.
Ira: Fair.
Kristin: This is good. The whole—I really like the arc with Anya and Tara and
Willow. Because I feel like Anya really is, like—they’re really pulling apart, like,
the—you’re a lesbian so you hate men. And Willow’s like, “We don’t really hate
men. We just—” like, they’re trying to piece apart—they’re trying to pull apart
something and I appreciate it.


Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: It’s funny.
Ira: It’s fun also because, you know, even when you get—you know, like, “we just
prefer the girl-on-girl interactions.” You also have to remember, this aired on TV in
2002.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Ira: So—
Kristin: Yes.
Ira: This was all very new for TV.
Jenny: Oh yeah.
Kristin: Mmhmm. You can tell—
Ira: And forward-thinking.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: Right, and you can tell, by the way that Alyson Hanigan—who is a fucking
genius—delivers the line “girl on girl.” Which is—
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: Really not—I’m—I get upset about it. [Jenny laughs] I’m upset about it.
[Ira laughs] And I don’t falter. It’s because of everything you said, Ira. It’s kind of a
big deal that you can even say the words “girl on girl.”
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Ira: Yeah. I mean, I was just thinking, side note, recently. I think Mark Harris is
going on this Twitter thing about, you know, the gay 90s cover—
Kristin: Oh, god—


Ira: That Entertainment Weekly had done.
Kristin: [laughing] Yes.
Ira: And, like, a lot of younger people were, you know, sort of upset about the
cover.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Ira: And like, he had to remind people that, like, in the 90s, that even the actors
who weren’t gay, their publicists didn’t want them being on the cover, listed as
“gay.” Other people were closeted. It was hard. You know?
Kristin: Yeah.
Ira: And like, even in 2002, it was almost sort of novel for these actresses playing
lesbians, long-running lesbians, on TV.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Ira: On a show that wasn’t The L Word or something. ‘Cause it’s like, other people
would not wanna do that.
Kristin: Right. Right.
Ira: Back then.
Jenny: Yep, yep, yep.
Kristin: No, totally. I was just thinking about—what are their names?
Ira: There’s a reason why Andrew’s like that, you know?
Kristin: Pumba and Timon? Were they on—
Ira: Mmhmm. Yeah.
Kristin: I was just thinking about them today and having a chuckle, ‘cause they’re
on that cover. [laughs]


Ira: Yeah. But yeah, there’s a whole thing about things were queer coded back
then.
Kristin: Yes. Yes.
Ira: You know? And so it’s like…I mean, even Angel and Spike were, right? The
jokes about it?
Kristin: Oh my god. A thousand—yes.
Ira: And siring him? Yeah. That’s why Andrew—like, the jokes are still very, like—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Ira: That way.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Ira: It’d be a lot more explicit now. But you know.
Kristin: [simultaneously] I mean, it’s so easy—
Jenny: [simultaneously] Mmhmm.
Ira: [simultaneously] It’s not Riverdale. Okay? [Jenny laughs]
Kristin: Right. I mean, with all of this, it’s so easy to go back and—I mean,
with—even outside of, like, the queer relationships and what have you. It’s so easy
to go back now and look and say, like, how could this have ever happened this
way? But it’s like, you have to take it with the context in which it came. And it’s a
very different thing when you take a lot of these things in the context from which
they came.
Jenny: Yeah.
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: So. Lesbians, et cetera. Anya’s tactic—one more thing I wanna say about
lesbians [Jenny laughs] is Anya’s tactic of trying to get Tara and Willow to wish
something horrible to happen to Xander by saying, “Men love to watch girl on girl


action. Men like Xander.” [laughter] Quality! Quality tactic from Anya. I am here for
it, a thousand percent.
Ira: A real queen.
[ANYA jingle plays]
[cash register rings]
She spent one millennium, demonically vengeancin'
Speaks her mind and then some, you know
She's partial to the finer things
And down with double boyfriends, oh yeah
Exchanging cash for goods and also services
She'd love to hold the money for ya (she'll hold that cash)
Just keep the bunnies far from… Anya!
Kristin: A true—like, truly. Truly, a queen. Dawn—she goes, like, the kiddie route
with Dawn where she’s trying to trick her. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: She’s like, “So like, give me a for instance of what you wouldn't say.” [Ira
laughs] Or like, “So you just said that? Oh, what didn’t you say?” [laughter] And
then Buffy. Does she have a tiny bang? I saw a tiny bit of a tiny bang. I haven’t
seen a tiny bang since, like, Season 4. But I’m telling you that on the steps of this
house, I saw a tiny bit of a tiny bang in this little scene.
Jenny: A subtle wisp?
Kristin: A subtle wisp.
Jenny: I mean, you’d have to get in touch with the Trio and review—
Kristin: The footage?
Ira: The tapes.
Jenny: All of their surveillance footage. [laughs]
Kristin: Those tapes.
Ira: Run back the tapes.


Kristin: But this—I mean, this scene with Buffy is where things get serious.
I—like—
Ira: Mmhmm.
Kristin: I felt like this was really relatable. Like, this was relatable content. Right?
Anya is like, “This person hurt me so much and you all still love him. Like, how—”
like, she cannot reconcile that. Which I think is, like—I can just imagine—Ira, you
can correct me ‘cause I’m about to imagine being in a writers’ room, which I’m sure
will be very fun for you to witness. But I just, like, imagine people sitting around
and talking about, like, what is—what does it feel like when you break up with
somebody?
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: What are some of your memories? And coming with this—like, this fucking
nugget of, like, when you need everybody to hate them and they…don’t. [laughs]
Ira: Yes. I mean, it helps that she’s a—you know, like, fresh human. You know?
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Ira: But, like, first real breakup, right?
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Ira: First breakup. You know, ‘cause she’s been with him since…Season 3.
Kristin: Oh my god, yeah.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: A long time ago.
Ira: But yeah. That thing of like, if you’re dating someone and you’re—become
friends with their friends. You know? Like—
Kristin: Right, and—


Ira: Even if they’re horrible to you—unless they do something really horrible, and
even then. You know? [laughs]
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Ira: But their friends are friends with that person for a reason. They know who they
are. You know?
Kristin: Yes.
Ira: So they’re like, yeah, we know who you are, we love you. But—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Ira: What you did sucked, but we’re not gonna, like, get rid of you. But it was
telling—you know, even though, like—I mean, I feel like the women—like, I didn’t
feel like they were nice, though. ‘Cause I feel like—I feel like no one in that
group—like, if she weren’t going the vengeance route, I feel like no one in that
group was gonna be like, “You have to forgive Xander.”
Kristin: No.
Ira: And I feel like all of them would have been fine, like, still interacting with
Anya.
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah, I mean, I think—I actually think that they do a great job in
this episode and the last couple—well, actually, the last—oh my god, it’s only been
two episodes since Hell’s Bells. [laughing] It feels like a fucking lifetime. But like, in
both of those—in this episode and the one before it, I think they do a good job of,
like, showing the love that Buffy and Willow and Dawn have for Xander. And how
much they are so sad at what he’s done.
Ira: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: It’s like when you—it’s almost like all of us. Like, we were watching
Xander, like, wow, he’s growing, he’s growing, he’s growing. And then fuck, he just,
like—he did that thing. And maybe we were a little worried that he was gonna do
that thing and he fucking did it. And I feel like they do a good job in the writing and
the performances of giving us that, like, we love you but also, we know what you
did was not okay. And we, like, are here for—


Ira: Mmhmm.
Kristin: I mean, not that Anya wants them to be there for her, apart from making
this wish. But I think, like, if she did, they would—I agree 100%. They would be
there for Anya as well.
Ira: Mmhmm.
Jenny: I think—
Ira: Which is a long way from Selfless, when Buffy was being a bitch again.
[laughter]
Kristin: I can’t wait for the Listicle that you write [Ira laughs] for us, Ira. [Jenny
laughs] Like, “the 20 times that Buffy was a bitch.” And it’s just…[laughter]
Ira: She had a lot of rules for other people.
Kristin: Yes, yes.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: She does. Well, she is the Chosen One, so she’s special. [laughs]
Jenny: All of these people have a lot of rules for each other.
Ira: [simultaneously] No, she alone will be judgmental [Kristin laughs] to all of her
friends.
Jenny: Mmhmm. [laughter] I do think it’s worth just mentioning. I’m looking
forward to seeing how this comes back. I can’t remember if it does. But Dawn’s
trying to talk to Anya about working off her debt. But what we saw in terms of
Dawn shoplifting was just a box full of, like, jewelry and, like, tokens and shit that
all had, like, the prices still on.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: I’m just curious about what she couldn’t return?
Ira: I don’t know—yeah.


Jenny: Slug candles, maybe?
Ira: Even in Older and Far Away, right? Like—
Kristin: Yeah.
Ira: When she’s dumping the stuff out. I’m like, okay. And we know the leather
jacket and stuff. But where’s the other stuff she stole? And why’s it—I guess she’s
just a klepto and it’s a thing of, like—it was like, I’m just doing this, you know,
‘cause—compulsively—
Kristin: Right.
Ira: For attention, whatever. But it’s like, just keeping this stuff in this jewelry box?
Kristin: Right, with the tags on.
Ira: You weren't wearing it?
Kristin: Yeah. That’s what I—like, I remember at that time, being like, how—she’s
not wearing it ‘cause the tags are all on. We can see the tags.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: But I think she has to work—I mean, I think even if she returned all that
shit to Anya, the Magic Box, like, she needs to work it off.
Ira: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Like, not the cost of goods, but the, like—
Jenny: But the cost of trust?
Kristin: The cost of trust, exactly. Like, she’s gotta put in some working time for
that.
Ira: [laughing] Yeah.
Kristin: So, gnome. We’ve talked about the gnome.
Ira: Mmhmm.


Kristin: The fucking gnome gets kicked. There’s a camera in the fucking gnome.
We know that.
Ira: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Xander immediately thinks it’s Spike, which I think is…just not the best
option in terms of, like, what they know about what’s going on in town.
Ira: [simultaneously] He’s so obnoxious.
Kristin: But it’s because of Xan—right.
Ira: He’s so fucking obnoxious. Spike is—like, hangs outside of, like, you know,
um, houses. You know?
Kristin: Yeah, he stands there where the gnome is. [laughs]
Ira: A camera? Come on. Even then—
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah, Spike is his own camera.
Ira: Even when he had the Buffy, you know, bot.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Ira: He didn’t build it.
Jenny: He’s not a tech guy—
Ira: Warren built it—yes. [Kristin laughs]
Jenny: Xander, you fool.
Ira: He’s hundreds of years old, okay? [laughter] Which actually…maybe he should
know a little bit about—more about computers than the rest of us.
Kristin: That’s true. [Jenny laughs]
Ira: You know?
Kristin: But I don’t think—Spike is, like, a traditionalist, you know? Well. Not as
much as Angel. But—


Ira: Mmhmm.
Jenny: But he’s like…he’s fairly a Ludite. I mean, he’s living in a crypt.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: He’s stealing electricity from somewhere else in the cemetery to plug his
fridge into.
Kristin: Well, and his television to watch Passions, back in the day.
Ira: Mm, yes.
Kristin: So he has that.
Ira: That old TV in his crypt.
Jenny: Yep. Yeah.
Kristin: Oh my god, yeah, it’s like, from the 50s.
Jenny: Boxy. [laughs]
Kristin: He carries it around as he travels. [laughs]
Ira: I know, right?
Jenny: Yeah. A rounded screen.
Kristin: Yeah, so it’s not fucking Spike. We go to Spike’s. Buffy’s like, “Did you do
this?” and Spike is dumbfounded.
Ira: He’s like, “Girl, you’re dumb.”
Kristin: Yeah.
Ira: Come on. [laughter]
Jenny: Buffy is wearing what appears—
Kristin: Oh.


Jenny: To be an entire rose blossom affixed—
Kristin: [simultaneously] It’s upsetting. It’s not—
Jenny: To the top of her ponytail?
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Which…no?
Kristin: I mean, like, I think what is happening, costuming-wise, with Buffy
Summers in this part of the season is that since she broke up with Spike, they’re
trying to give her a different look. And they do not understand jeans for Buffy or
hair for Buffy. Now that they’ve gone through—she’s gone through her leather
phase.
Jenny: Yep.
Kristin: She’s gone through her mini skirt phase.
Jenny: Yep.
Kristin: And they’re like, we don’t know how to do the rest of this. And it shows. I
hope that she gets back to leather someday soon.
Jenny: [simultaneously] They say, what’s left?!
Kristin: [laughs] I would like to play this horrible, horrible exchange, between
Spike and Buffy.
[Clip from episode plays]
Spike: I’m trying to make it clear to you, but you won’t see it. Something
happened to me. The way I feel about you. It’s different. And no matter how
hard you try to convince yourself it isn’t, it’s real.
Buffy: I think it is. For you.
Kristin: This is…I think I said “ouch” out loud in my living room.
Ira: Mmhmm.


Kristin: “It is real, for you.” And then she makes it even worse by saying, “You
have to move on.” Like, is there anything worse than someone who is breaking up
with you for, like, the third time than telling you that you need to move on?
Ira: She needs to move on.
Kristin: She does.
Jenny: Mm-hmm!
Kristin: She’s the one who’s there. She arrived at his crypt.
Ira: She’s constantly following him around. [Kristin laughs]
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Ira: Constantly…just being obnoxious. [Jenny laughs] Get out of my crypt!
[laughter]
Jenny: Yes. Correct.
Ira: She’s always marching in.
Kristin: Yes, no boundaries—
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Ira: She’s so rude!
Kristin: She never even knocks. Yeah.
Jenny: Terrible boundaries, for sure.
Kristin: Yeah. Yes.
Jenny: Ladies night? At the Magic Box, ladies night?
Kristin: It gets us—right.
Jenny: Anyone?


Kristin: It gets us to both ladies night at the Magic Box, and also, it gets Spike so
upset that he has to go to the Magic Box. Which I am fucking here for. It’s the only
thing I really remember about this episode, like, before I rewatch it. I’m like—
Ira: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Entropy, the one where Spike and Anya fuck on the Magic Box table.
[laughs]
Ira: Mmhmm.
Kristin: It really kind of eclipses all else.
Ira: I wish Giles had came back then.
[Jenny laughs]
Kristin: Oh my god. What is Giles—would Giles’s opinion be of Anya and Spike? I
feel like he would understand it.
Jenny: Hmm.
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: Maybe not on his table. But—
Ira: Yes.
Jenny: Yeah. [Kristin laughs] I think he would take his glasses off and clean them.
And mutter a lot.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Yes, so he didn’t have to see all of the…bits and bobs, if
you will.
Ira: Mmhmm.
Jenny: I will not. Gone is the twinkle of recognition between Spike and Halfrek.
Kristin: Yeah, Hallie and Spike. Yeah.
Jenny: Weird. They had their moment in a different episode. But—


Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: It’s just such a delightful thing that they acknowledged, that like, to not
have them even—
Ira: Yeah. Yeah, I think they—there are just fun interactions between both of them.
They—it’s a wink to the fans.
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah.
Ira: I still think it’s her.
Kristin: [simultaneously] I wanted a second wink. I want—
Ira: I know, I needed a second wink.
Kristin: I just—like, we already got the wink—
Ira: I like Halfrek.
Kristin: Yeah, so give us one more wink. But yeah, Hallie—
Ira: We got rid of her—yeah. She ran out too quickly. It’s just like, Amy should
have stuck around too.
Kristin: Ugh. Oh my god, well.
Jenny: Mm-hmm!
Kristin: [laughs] Alright, so. The one ingredient at the Magic Box that Spike needs,
of course, is the whiskey that Giles left behind. And these two are gonna get
shitfaced, as the cameras are, of course, discovered. With permission from my
cohosts, I would like to play Willow her jingle, her original Willow jingle, in this
moment when she’s at the fucking dining room table, with her laptop.
Jenny: Just hackin’. Hackin’ away.
[WILLOW jingle plays]
Who knows the square root of 1,225?
Willow!
Who is gentle of heart and nimble with a hard drive?
Willow!


Willow, Willow, Willow
Jenny: So…you know, it’s pretty weird that Buffy hasn’t found these three guys
yet. Don’t you think? [laughs] Any—
Ira: Yes.
Kristin: To Ira’s earlier point. [laughs]
Jenny: It just seems like—
Kristin: It’s been 18 episodes. [laughs]
Jenny: [laughing] Yeah! And they’re just in a basement somewhere.
Kristin: Mmhmm. Yeah.
Ira: Yeah, I have questions.
Kristin: Mmhmm…
Ira: Where they at? Where they at? Find that—but also, Willow and her hacking
couldn’t figure out where the cameras are coming from. You also almost forgot she
used to be a hacker, right?
Kristin: I mean, it’s been—
Jenny: Oh, yeah. [singing] Been a while.
Ira: Then she’s sitting there, doing that classic, like—I mean…[laughter] typing
away.
Jenny: Dude, when you see the computer screen—
[Kristin laughing]
Ira: [simultaneously] Talking about fiber optics. Yes, I’m like—
Jenny: It’s just, like, a radar circle. Like—
Ira: I was like, it seems more ridiculous than what she actually used to do. You
know?


[Jenny laughs]
Kristin: Oh my god. She’s like, my name is Acid Burn. Jenny, what is it?
Jenny: I just—you know. It’s just…it’s just time. It’s just time to…
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Do shots. And commiserate. [Ira laughs]
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Shots, shots, shots, shots-shots-shots—
Ira: [simultaneously] These people need to be drinking more.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Yeah, it’s—
Jenny: [simultaneously] As a wise man once said.
Kristin: It’s time to get drunk and share—swap stories of heartbreak.
Ira: They should be drunk more.
Kristin: Yeah, I agree. This is a fucking well-written scene, if I do say so myself.
Ira: I love it. I love it.
Kristin: I think it’s fucking genius. The—
Ira: I love it, I do love Spike, so—and I love Anya.
Kristin: Yeah.
Ira: It’s a great written scene. Got two actors just, you know, like…going at it.
Giving it their best. They’re having fun in this scene, basically, you know?
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah.


Kristin: [pleased] Ugh. So much fun, and like, the one-two punch of, like, you
know—they’re going back and forth. And everything that Anya’s saying, Spike is
commiserating with—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: But making sure to kind of, like, “well, not that” or “well, not this.”
Jenny: Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: And leading to the direct, like, “well, I don’t have a sexy dance.” [Jenny
laughs] That is then called back again, somehow—like, the fact that they make that
sexy is incredible to me.
Ira: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Like, that is—that’s the moment when you’re like, oh, this is a fucking
performance.
Ira: It’s actors. It’s acting! [Jenny laughs]
Kristin: Actors. Yes.
Ira: Yeah.
Jenny: Ira. Have you ever referred to any gentleman as “bumpy in the right
places”? [Kristin laughs]
Ira: Absolutely not. [Kristin laughs]
Jenny: Do you have any idea what the “right places” would be for—
Ira: [simultaneously] And was she talking about Xander?
Jenny: Yes. Is she talking about his biceps?
Ira: [simultaneously] And so I was like, it made sense for Spike ‘cause I’m like, oh,
is she talking about the fact that they both get bumps on their faces? Which is
like—
Kristin: Right, like, their—


Jenny: Oh, oh, oh.
Kristin: Yes, yes.
Ira: Yeah. Which also, you know, maybe—special effects is cheap, these days. It is
Season 6. [laughter] And it was on UPN at this point.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Ira: But, you know, I feel like they both would have, like, demoned out.
Kristin: Yes! Ooh, that’s so hot! Yes! [laughs]
Jenny: [laughs] Especially when you consider that Spike’s praising Anya for being
forthright. And then he describes the rest of the Scoobies as uptight and repressed
with this hand gesture.
Kristin: Yeah.
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: They know.
Jenny: A spin—
Kristin: Can you imagine it, listeners at home?
Jenny: A spin and a jab.
Kristin: Yeah, mmhmm.
Ira: Also, how many people has Anya had sex with?
Kristin: Well, it doesn’t sound like many because—I mean, she starts this whole
thing off by saying that she had a thousand-year, like, dry spell before—
Ira: Yeah. That’s fair.
Jenny: Yeah. And so, spoilers, probably Olaf?
[pause]


Kristin: [laughing] Olaf the troll—
Jenny: [simultaneously] Xander.
Kristin: Followed by Xander. Which is probably why Xander scored such—
Jenny: [simultaneously] And Spike.
Kristin: High marks that I, for the whole time, didn’t understand how he was
scoring.
Ira: Yeah. Of course.
Jenny: Mm, mm. Oh, you mean, just in terms of being, like, the only second—in
line?
Kristin: For the troll that wasn’t—she probably couldn’t even—
Jenny: Well, Olaf wasn’t a troll, when they were a couple.
Kristin: Oh, right, that’s right.
Jenny: She turned him into a troll.
Kristin: Regardless. It’s been so long that I think—
Ira: Yeah. When was Olaf?
Kristin: Renaissance times?
Jenny: [dramatically] One thousand years ago!
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: I don’t know. A long fucking time ago.
Jenny: So 900—yeah, like, around the year 1,000.
[Kristin laughs]
Ira: Yeah. You know Spike was great, so—Buffy kept going back. So, seems like it
should—like, I’m sorry. You know. Spoiler alert. They don’t start dating. [laughter]


Kristin: Yeah.
Ira: But they should!
Kristin: They should.
Ira: They should!
Jenny: It’s like—
Ira: Why don’t you want the two best actors together? And they’re hot. You know,
like—
Kristin: Oh my god, it would have been so—I would’ve—
Ira: Fuck Buffy and Xander. They should have—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Ira: And if—and, like, this is leading more into, like, some nighttime soap territory
anyway. [Kristin laughs] Wouldn’t you just love Anya and Spike, like, being
together and just, like, terrorizing the Scoobies?
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: Yes!
Ira: And sometimes they help them and, like, they have to go over to them. Like,
Xander—Buffy has to go over to ask them for help, with like, whatever’s happening,
whatever demon’s attacking. And like, they’ve just finished having sex in, like,
Anya’s apartment. And they’re like, “I guess we’ll help you.”
Kristin: Dude.
Ira: You know, and they’re getting dressed. That’s fun.
Kristin: It is! It’s also, like—I mean, I feel like they have this one moment, where
they say—where Spike says, “We should have been dead hundreds of years ago
and we’re the only ones who are really alive.” So not only is it fun and sexy, but I
also feel like it’s fucking—it would be, like, a very interesting story line—


Ira: Mmhmm.
Kristin: To see how that sets up against the Scoobies.
Ira: Absolutely.
Kristin: It’s good shit.
Ira: But the show’s obsessed with Buffy and Spike, so.
Kristin: Don’t we know it? We can’t even put them in a Sexual Tension Award poll
without them taking the sweep.
Ira: I miss it. I miss—ugh! The lost potential.
Kristin: [sighs] Yeah.
Jenny: It’s—they’re very hot together and they’re wonderful to watch. However, I
can’t help but feel like once again, this show has hurt me when it was not strictly
necessary. Because, like, I should be way hornier, watching this. But it’s too sad.
Ira: It’s very sad.
Jenny: The context is too upsetting.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: And how dare they finally give us—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: What should be, like—I mean, what is great. But what could be even
greater, [laughs] but having—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Ira: Too hot adults, who could have sex with each other ‘cause they’re both
single—
Jenny: Oh my god.
Ira: Made to feel bad about it!


Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: Yeah, finally Spike is sleeping with someone older than him. [laughter]
Ira: Tea. Yes.
Kristin: Ugh. “I’m lonely and drunk and you smell good.” A valid reason to sleep
with someone—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And they do it.
Ira: Yeah. And—
Jenny: Good job.
Ira: Then—yeah. And that’s all we get. That’s rude.
Kristin: Yeah. Well. We get this—we talked about Andrew already. This is his
moment. He see—they see what’s happening. I do love the fact that they are so
stunned by what’s happening [laughter] that they don’t turn the camera off.
Ira: Yes.
Kristin: They’re just like, oh shit! [laughs]
Jenny: They’re not stunned. That’s not the reason why they don’t turn the camera
off. [laughter]
Ira: They loved it.
Jenny: There’s a different word, Kristin. [laughs]
Kristin: Oh, man.
Jenny: But—so they have this light that starts flashing once Willow gets into their
feeds. But why don’t they have some kind of notification when a gnome [Kristin
laughing] that was housing their camera is broken and then that camera is
detached? It seems…incorrect that one would be true without the other. [laughs]


Ira: Very—very, very confusing, is—
Kristin: Yes.
Ira: Is all I have to say.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Ira: So—
Kristin: Just don’t ask too many questions.
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: Well. Guess who else sees this shit? Buffy—
Ira: [simultaneously] Lil’ Xander. Lil’ X.
Kristin: Willow, Xander. And then Dawn, which is even more upsetting—
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: To everyone in the room. Yeah. Upsetting. Confusing to everyone, because
why does Buffy’s face look like that? Then Buffy flees and Dawn follows and Xander
flees, and Willow sees that the fucking weapons chest is open. Because Xander has
taken an ax and a stake—
Ira: Mmhmm.
Kristin: As we find out.
Jenny: [through gritted teeth] Oh my god. What is with these people and their
axes?
Ira: [simultaneously] I love that the weapons chest is just sitting there.
Kristin: That was when—
Jenny: It’s just ready.


Kristin: That weapons chest is a relic from when Xander was having a good
moment. Xander made that shit for Buffy for her birthday. We thought maybe this
guy has what it takes.
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: And that was our first mistake.
Jenny: But no.
Kristin: [laughs] No.
Ira: I miss her old weapons chest in her bedroom.
Kristin: With the, like, communion wafers in it? Yeah.
Ira: Yeah.
Jenny: Yes. [Kristin and Ira laugh] Correct.
Kristin: Oh, god. Alright, well. We’re getting to it, as much as we might wanna
avoid this last scene.
Ira: It’s awful.
Kristin: It’s awful. It’s so fucking bad.
Ira: They both suck.
Kristin: Dawn—you know, in case you’re here for continuity—for every moment to
be mentioned.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: Dawn and Buffy do have a moment regarding Spike in the backyard. Dawn
saying—
Jenny: Dude.
Kristin: Mmm?


Jenny: Do you buy that both, like—it feels like both Willow and Dawn have this
moment of recognition where they, like, look away from the feed to look at Buffy’s
face and they’re both like, oh!
Ira: Right.
Jenny: You’re upset that Spike is—why wouldn’t it be possible for Buffy to have
that, like—
Kristin: Dawn—
Jenny: Look because she’s so upset on Xander’s behalf? Dawn, it makes more
sense.
Kristin: Dawn, it makes more sense because in Normal Again, Buffy said it—like,
they were in the middle of a horrifying fight—
Jenny: [simultaneously] Said something offhanded, yeah.
Kristin: But she said it. But Willow, yeah, it doesn’t really make sense for Willow to
put that together.
Ira: Well, Willow’s a bad friend. [laughter]
Jenny: Are there any good friends in Sunnydale? I don’t know.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Ira’s like, the episode is almost over—
Ira: [simultaneously] They’re all bad friends!
Kristin: [simultaneously] Let me get in every hot take I can in the last ten
minutes. [laughs]
Ira: They’re all bad friends. [Kristin laughs] I don’t think they ever really dealt with
their fight in—at the end of Season 4. And then bringing her back from the dead.
They got a lot of trauma. They need therapy.
Jenny: They all need therapy.
Kristin: [simultaneously] They need—I mean. Honestly.
Jenny: Ooh, real bad.


Kristin: We say it so much. If we had—
Jenny: [laughs] Every episode.
Kristin: If we had one nickel for every time that we said these kids need therapy.
We’d have a lot of nickels. So—alright, Jenny, how you wanna play this? [Jenny
groans] Do you wanna fucking get sexy before we get sad? Or you wanna get sad
before we get sexy? Where are we going?
Jenny: Let’s get sad before we get sexy.
Kristin: Alright.
Jenny: Let’s get through this fucking slog. Ugh.
Kristin: So—
Jenny: How dare everyone?
Kristin: It starts strong. It starts strong. We’re back in the Magic Box. Spike nods
to Anya as he leaves, which I love. I love the moment of, like, we said what this
was. We are adults. We did this thing. I—like, they have a mutual—
Jenny: It was hot.
Kristin: It was hot, it was good, we respect each other and now, I’m gonna leave.
Jenny: And now we’re gonna both return to being sadness.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Return to our previously scheduled sadness.
Ira: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And then…whatever, Xander tries to fucking kill Spike—
Jenny: [simultaneously] And then here’s Xander, with his little ax. Ugh.


Kristin: [simultaneously] Which of course he doesn’t do. And Xander says—this is
awful. I’m just gonna—let me just play the Patriarchy jingle. Okay? ‘Cause that’s
what’s happening.
[THE PATRIARCHY jingle plays]
The patriarchy! [thunder clap, evil laughter]
Kristin: Anya holds her own, I will say, which, of course she does. But it’s just,
like—
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: She says all the things that I think we’re screaming at the television.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Ira: Yeah. Also, like…that’s the other thing—[sighs] there’s so much going on here
with Xander. He knows that Spike can’t fight back, too!
Kristin: Yes.
Ira: He sucks. [laughs]
Kristin: And he doesn’t fucking care. And it’s like, him kicking the shit out of Spike
is upsetting for a few reasons. But is nowhere near as upsetting as then him turning
on An—how—? I mean. Literally how dare you?
Ira: Yeah.
Jenny: Dude.
Kristin: You fucking leave this woman at the fucking altar, and then you have the
motherfucking gall to show up and tell her that she makes you sick? That what
she—
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: Ugh!
Jenny: No, no, no, no, no, no!
Kristin: I cannot.


Jenny: Simply no. Unsubscribe. Absolutely not.
Ira: She shoulda hit him.
Kristin: She shoulda fucking hit him. I agree. She shoulda fucking hit him. Buffy
shoulda hit him. Spike—everybody shoulda hit him.
Ira: All three of them, beating him up, [Kristin laughs] like the end of Death Proof.
[laughter]
Kristin: [laughing] Yes!
Ira: And then Xander’s dead. [laughs]
Kristin: Yes. Well. “You let that evil, soulless thing touch you. I look at you and I
feel sick.” Fuck you, Xander. And then Spike, giving us…[sighs] “It was good
enough for Buffy.” And as someone said in the Instagram comments, leave her out
of this! [laughter]
Ira: Yeah, that was Spike being—you know what?
Kristin: Yeah.
Ira: Hush. [laughs]
Kristin: Yeah—
Jenny: We couldn’t get out of the episode without somebody telling her friends.
Ira: Yes.
Jenny: And it had to be Spike.
Kristin: Yeah.
Ira: Telling her business.
Jenny: Mmhmm!
Ira: Which is fine.


Kristin: And this is where, like, you know, coming back, Ira, to where you kind of
started us. Like, this really lands back in that place of like, so what are say—like,
this is just so sex-shamey.
Jenny: It’s very weird, because Xander himself has repeatedly referred to and
vocally noticed Spike being attractive, well muscled—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Et cetera. It makes sense that women want to sleep with him, because he
is a hot, cool guy. [Kristin laughs]
Ira: Mmhmm.
Jenny: You should try it sometime, Xander.
Kristin: Yeah, well, that could be a whole—that’s the read you know I wanted to
do. But this episode is just so upsetting that I couldn’t even bring myself to bring us
to the Xander/Spike…
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: Love affair place. But yeah.
Ira: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Yeah. It’s a big “oof” from me. Two capital O’s and a capital F. But, I will
say, I do think that at least, for Anya, the moving on has happened. So at least we
get that. And I don’t know, no spoilers, but that’s just my—
Jenny: [simultaneously] Yeah, she’s definitely got a foothold of some kind.
Kristin: Yeah. I mean, we end the scene with her saying—or with Spike finally
saying, “You know, I wish.” And she says, “Don’t.”
Ira: Yeah. Growth!
Kristin: Growth. Spike, mm, maybe not so much.
Ira: [simultaneously] A character arc.
Kristin: But, yes. [laughter] Anya’s got it. Ah. Bless Anya.


Ira: My girl.
Kristin: And you know. There’s still one more scene.
Jenny: I can’t hear you, Kristin, over the roar of lesbians all around us, [Kristin
laughing] in every direction, screaming, pulling out their hair, gnashing their teeth.
Tara shows up at Willow’s bedroom door.
Ira: Mmm.
Kristin: Good Tara shit here. [Jenny exhales] Good Tara shit here.
Ira: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Yes.
Ira: Yeah, she doesn’t have time for coffee. [Jenny laughs] We’re adults!
Kristin: Mm-mm, she just wants to fuck! [laughs]
Jenny: She’s gotta get in there. [clapping with each word] Let’s talk later! It’s
nighttime!
Kristin: It’s so good, because like, Tara has been so mature and healthy and
boundaried. And like, has done everything right for so many episodes. And so,
like—
Ira: Mmhmm.
Kristin: That we get this from her—ugh! It’s—chef’s kiss.
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: ‘Cause Willow can’t. Willow can’t be the reckless one, given the nature of,
like, how they broke up and what have you. Like, she has to toe the line, she has to
follow Tara’s lead. And so when Tara’s lead is like, fuck it all. I just can’t keep my
hands off ya. Yeah, right.
Ira: Yeah. Just wait.
Jenny: There they go. Going for it.


Kristin: The lesbians, they do roar.
Ira: It’s what they deserve.
Kristin: It is what they deserve.
Jenny: The most extended…intense kiss that we have seen.
Kristin: Yeah.
Ira: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Between them. There they go.
Kristin: I imagine that—like, when we talked to Amber Benson, she was telling us
about the kiss in The Body and how, like—Ira, I imagine that you’ve probably heard
this story as well. But, like, how, you know, they were told to really go for it so that
the network would say “tone it down,” so that they would get to keep the kiss that
they had. Rather than giving them the kiss they wanted and having the network
say, no, you can’t have that fucking kiss.
Ira: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Gonna guess that the kiss that got cut probably looked a lot like this.
Kristin: Exactly. This is, I think—
Jenny: Imagine this kiss in The Body. Ahh. [laughs]
Kristin: Yeah, nah, right. You don’t want it there, but—
Ira: UPN! [laughter]
Kristin: You do want this kiss on the UPN and you do want it right now. It’s good,
it’s good.
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: Which I think takes us to…our Sexual Tension Awards, if you will.
Ira: Mmhmm.


Jenny: Indeed.
[SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays]
Sexual tension award!
Jenny: Here we go. We have four promising slots—
Ira: Mmm.
Jenny: Filled with four sets of delightful noms for this addition of the Sexual
Tension Awards. Here we go. In the first slot, why bother having any other slots
when the first slot is full of these two? Scream if you must, it’s Willow and Tara,
reunited!
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And it feels so good.
Kristin: It does.
Jenny: In slot number two, you know, sometimes things that seem cool take a turn
for the worst and you can’t enjoy them as much. So in this slot, number two, we
would like to include the nomination for Spike and Anya, in the precious, wonderful
span of time just before they bone—
Kristin: Hot.
Jenny: When things are still just hot with no consequences or sorrow.
Kristin: It’s hot. And I know our listeners, and I also know this television show.
And so I know—I know that Willow and Tara are gonna fucking take it, but I know
that I can—
Ira: You know the real winner.
Kristin: I know—in my heart, I know—[laughs]
Jenny: [simultaneously] Yeah.
Ira: [simultaneously] You know the real winner, okay?


Kristin: [laughing] In my heart, I know.
Ira: Sorry, ladies. [laughter] Sorry, lady listeners. [laughter] Call me an LLC,
‘cause lady listeners, cut it out. [laughter]
Kristin: Wow. Wow. On the fly. [Ira laughs] Call me an LLC. Get the fuck outta
here. [laughter]
Jenny: If the noms in slot number two are not quite pure enough for you, I have
prepared in slot number three…perhaps an even less painful option. And that is an
alternate universe where Spike and Anya can bone…a whole bunch of times. And it
doesn’t have to be sad at all and we get to watch episodes with that in it, all the
time.
Ira: Mmm.
Kristin: Honestly, it’s like—
Jenny: [simultaneously] And all of us.
Kristin: It’s like every episode, you just challenge me more to fit this shit into a
Twitter poll.
Ira: Mmm.
Jenny: Fit it. In. A poll!
Kristin: It’s, like, 17 paragraphs.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Speaking of fitting it in. [laughs]
Ira: [simultaneously] I do prefer two, though, because you know I like the
sadness.
Kristin: Ah.
[Ira laughs]
Jenny: Okay, okay, alright, alright. But what if I told you, Ira—
Kristin: [simultaneously] We know where Ira’s vote is going.


Jenny: What if I told you that in slot number four, the final pairing, the final sweet
pairing for this…mmm, scant sexual tension episode. Andrew and how cool Spike
looks! [Kristin laughs]
Ira: Mmm.
Jenny: Does that do anything for you, medium?
Ira: You know what? It does.
Jenny: Yes.
Ira: Yeah. You know? We stan. We have to stan.
Kristin: My heart votes for sad Spike and Anya. Listen. I’m with you. I’m with you,
Ira. Give me—
Ira: Thank you.
Jenny: Well!
Kristin: Give me that sad sex! I’ll take it! I’ll take it.
Jenny: Ow. [laughs]
Kristin: I’m voting for it. [laughs]
Jenny: Our beautiful listenership, if you wish to take part in this spectacular
democracy that we…revisit every episode, please visit our Twitter, @BufferingCast
and cast your vote in the Sexual Tension Award poll for this episode. Which will be
up for one week, starting now.
Kristin: Yeah, we’ll read you the results at the top of the next episode, called
Seeing Red. It’ll be…
Jenny: [sarcastically] I wonder what Seeing Red’s about? It sounds like a fun
romp.
Kristin: [flatly] Yeah, a delight.
Ira: You’re seeing Anya’s red dress, constantly.


Kristin: [laughs] Truly the only red I would like to see.
Jenny: I wish.
Ira: That’s what it’s about! [laughter]
Jenny: [laughing] I wish that’s what Seeing Red was about. [laughter]
Ira: Unfortunately. I do love Seeing Red. [laughter] It’s a good episode!
Kristin: Literally. Literally, like, the takes just keep getting more—
[Ira laughing]
Jenny: [simultaneously] The only person. The only person who’s ever said that
sentence.
Ira: I’m sorry, it’s a good episode! [Kristin laughs] For the most part. For the most
part.
Kristin: Alright, well, in that case, Ira, congratulations. You’re hosting it. [Ira
laughs] Goodbye!
Jenny: [laughs] Yes. See you next episode! [laughter]
Ira: It’s got one of my favorite fights in the show too.
Kristin: Oh, god help us all.
[SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays]
Sexual tension award!
Kristin: Ira, is there anything in this episode that, like, we did not give you the
space to explore properly? Is there anything that you would like to say about it?
Ira: I think we got there.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Any last hot takes to jam in there?
Ira: I think we got there. I like everybody.
Kristin: I think we did it.


Ira: I said my hot takes.
Kristin: You did.
Ira: You know, I love Spike and Anya, what I want for them.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Ira: Where’s Giles?
Kristin: Honestly, where the fuck is Giles?
Ira: Who else is missing?
Kristin: Well, Oz is off—I don’t know, on like a Wolverine yoga retreat still, I guess.
Ira: Yeah.
Kristin: I don’t know what he’s doing.
Ira: Sad.
[Jenny laughing quietly]
Kristin: You didn’t like—we didn’t like me calling him Wolverine? It mixed all
universes a little too much? [laughter]
Jenny: Yeah, it’s a little [crosstalk]
Kristin: Yeah, listen.
Ira: Yeah. Sad.
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah. So, I mean, the episode couldn’t have been any more
delightful.
Ira: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Having you here with us truly brought us the joy that we have needed, this
season. So thank you.


Ira: Thank you! This was so much fun.
Kristin: Do you wanna tell us—I mean, I don’t even know—like, you’re working on
so many things. I’m sure some of which you can talk about and some of which you
cannot. But do you wanna tell people what the hell you’re up to these days?
Ira: [sighs] What am I up to? [laughter] Nonsense. Nonsense, you know?
[laughter] Just the podcast. Just doing some movie rewrites. And still TV writing.
Kristin: Amazing.
Ira: Not doing anything interesting. Oh! I’m writing a book now. [Kristin gasps]
Yeah, sorry. [more gasps] Yes. Yes, yes. That was announced this week.
Kristin: Oh, yes! Didn’t you just—you just announced it, didn’t you?
Jenny: Yes.
Ira: Just announced it. I am writing a book, essay book, on growing up in
Milwaukee slash 90s pop culture and before. And my journey to coming out. It’s
called Pure Innocent Fun. I’m writing it with Random House. So—
Kristin: So fucking great.
Jenny: Beautiful.
Ira: Gotta write it, so it’ll—
Kristin: Oh! [laughs]
Ira: It’ll be out in, like, spring 2023. [laughs]
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah. No, serious—
Jenny: I understand that just announcing that you’re writing a book is, like, 50%
of the writing process. So you’re—
Ira: Absolutely, absolutely.
Jenny: At least halfway done.
Kristin: Mmhmm, mmhmm.


Ira: Yeah, I’m done, right? So. Yeah.
Jenny: Mmhmm!
Kristin: I mean, I cannot think of a book that would appeal more to the
listenership in this space than what you—
Ira: There’ll be a Buffy chapter! Definitely. So…
Kristin: Of course there will be! How could there not be?
Jenny: Yes.
Ira: Yeah, so. Look forward to that.
Jenny: [singsong] Yes!
Kristin: Wow. I cannot—
Ira: More of the takes.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: I cannot—I literally cannot wait. [Ira laughs] Like, I actually can’t wait, so
whenever you wanna send me an advance, please. You know my email address.
Just send it.
Ira: Yeah.
[Jenny laughs]
Kristin: Send it, send it, send it!
Ira: Also, I feel like by then, you’ll still be wrapping up Season 7, so. [laughs]
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: I mean, honest—we honestly—
Jenny: Clawing our way to the finish line.


Kristin: Still—yes. [Ira laughs] Well, Ira, thank you, thank you, thank you.
Ira: Thank you!
Kristin: As always. Know that you hate Season 7, but perhaps there’s something
we can reel you back in for. [laughs]
Ira: You know…we’ll talk. [laughter]
Jenny: Well! Could I interest you in—
Kristin: Nope.
Jenny: Spoilers—
[tune plays over Jenny saying “Redacted!”]
Ira: Hmm. Maybe.
Kristin: Look at his face—
Jenny: Alright.
Ira: Maybe.
Kristin: Your face is, like—your face was a fucking “no thank you.”
Jenny: [laughs] “No.”
Ira: Yeah. No Nathan Fillian, though. [laughs]
Jenny: No, no, no, no, no, no. [laughter]
Kristin: Alright, Jenny. You wanna take us out?
Jenny: Hey, well, I’m Jenny Owen Youngs. And when I’m not watching Buffy, I am
usually writing and recording music. You can learn more about that music at
jennyowenyoungs.com. Find me on all the streaming platforms, and you can also
listen to my new band, L.A. Exes. You can also hear more of my speaking voice—for
a limited time only, as we’re nearing the end of the series—[Kristin gasps] over on
Veronica Mars Investigations. The podcast!


Kristin: I am Kristin Noeline Russo. You can find me and more about my
work—especially the work that I do with LGBTQ communities—by using my first and
middle name. That’s K-R-I-S-T-I-N N-O-E-L-I-N-E. Also, you can feel free—this is
connected to the spelling of my name, as a matter of fact. You can feel free to rate
and review us. We would love for anyone who likes this podcast to simply flock to
our reviews, because as of late—our listenership let us know that as of late, we
have some people who are just unhappy that we are talking about, um, anything
quote “political.” My favorite of the reviews being from a man named Rick, who
said, “Jenny and Kristen,” spelled with an E, “please look up the definition of the
word patriarchy.”
Jenny: Oh, Rick.
Kristin: So we found—what I mean to say is we’ve uncovered a bit of a pocket of
Ricks over on our review space. So we could use the power of Scoobies united to go
over and tell those people to fuck off. [laughs]
Jenny: Or just—yeah. Bury those shitty reviews with your—
Kristin: Yes. Please.
Jenny: Glowing sunshine reviews. Thanks.
Kristin: And of course, you can support our work on Patreon. All of the things you
need to know about us can be found on our website,
bufferingthevampireslayer.com. [singing] Dot com!
Jenny: Ira Madison, third of your name, always…pure pleasure and nothing but.
Until next time…
All three: Awwwooooooooo!
[“Entropy” plays off the album “Songs from Season Six” by Buffering the
Vampire Slayer]

