Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 2.15: Phases
Jenny: ​Hello! Today’s episode of Buffering the Vampire Slayer is brought to
you by Mack Weldon. Mack Weldon make really rad men’s basics, including
by not limited to underwear, supersoft tees, and really cool socks. They
make me wish I had bigger feet. They also make me wish I wore men’s
underwear. But let me tell you, I possess some of their T-shirts and one of
their crewneck sweatshirts, and they are the softest things I’ve ever touched
or looked upon. It’s like walking around being hugged by an angel and
ensconced in the skin of a jaguar.
Kristin:​ Wow.
Jenny:​ Yeah. It’s like power and suppleness [laughs] entwined together in
one cottony package. They really make the coolest stuff. I wish so bad that I
was just a couple foot sizes bigger, because their socks in particular are very
handsome.
Kristin:​ Maybe someone who listens to our podcast is a sock stitcher—
Jenny:​ [laughs] Could you, uh, take these socks in for me?
Kristin:​ And can mend or… Yeah.
Jenny:​ Callout to any sock tailors out there. [Kristin laughs] In the
meantime, if any of you have feet that are bigger than mine, or other
cotton-based dreams for really classy, cool basics, Mack Weldon has a
special offer for our listeners. If you go to mackweldon.com, you can get
20% off your purchase using the promo code Buffy, that’s mackweldon.com
and use the promo code Buffy to get 20% off. Yeah.
Kristin:​ Wow, so if you go to mackweldon.com and use the promo code
Buffy you could have shirts that feel like an Angel?
Jenny:​ [laughs] Exactly.
Kristin:​ Nice.


[THEME MUSIC]
Jenny:​ Hello, and welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast
where we are watching and discussing every episode of ​Buffy the Vampire
Slayer​ one at a time instead of all at once. My name is Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin:​ And I’m Kristin Russo, and this week we are talking about season 2,
episode 15, “Phases.” Stay tuned at the end of this podcast every week for
an original song written by us recapping the Buffy episode that we are
discussing.
Jenny:​ “Innocence” [sic] was written by Rob DesHotel and Dean Batali and
directed by Bruce Seth Green. It originally aired on January 27th, 1998.
Kristin:​ This is the one where Buffy and her friends discover secrets about
themselves as they battle a werewolf, its hunter, and their own emotions.
Also known as; this is the one where Oz is a werewolf and Larry is gay.
Jenny:​ But also, I really like the IMDB description.
Kristin:​ Yeah, no, it’s good. It’s good, but just like, if you want to really
have your memory jogged...
Jenny:​ Right right right, this is the one where Oz is a werewolf and Larry is
gay. For sure. [Kristin laughs] And the one where Xander cannot keep it
together.
Kristin:​ He can’t! I am on such a journey with Xander.
Jenny:​ He is a whirling dervish.
Kristin:​ Right? I, like, I’m— I could not believe the peaks and valleys of my
emotions—
Jenny:​ Right?
Kristin:​ With Xander in this. I just went from hating him, like, possibly to
the most I’ve ever hated him, to being like, “Wow, Xander, great move!” or
like, “Wow, man, this is really interesting the way you’re handling this


situation.”
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ So we’ll get into all of that and more. Starting now.
Jenny:​ Starting right now.
Kristin:​ Did you like my announcer voice?
Jenny:​ That was great.
Kristin:​ [announcer voice] All of that and more. Starting now.
Jenny:​ [laughs] It didn’t register at all, because I’m always doing an
announcer voice.
Kristin:​ [laughs] So one of my favorite parts about this episode is the very
first moment where Oz—
Jenny:​ Callback!
Kristin:​ Yes! ‘Cause I got so excited. When the scene first started, I was
like, “Oh my God, Amy’s mom is in there!” And then they were actually
calling it out and referencing Amy’s mom. Because Oz is like, “Yo, the eyes
of the statue—”
Jenny:​ Yes! “—Are following me wherever I go!”
Kristin:​ And he comments on that, “I like it.” [laughter] Which is great. And
then Willow comes in, in a matching hat and sweater that deserve—
Jenny:​ Oh my God, the like, chenille.
Kristin:​ Yeah, we don’t have Kate on this episode, so I’m going to give a
few shoutouts to outfits. ‘Cause there are some serious—
Jenny:​ Yeah. There are some winners.


Kristin:​ There are some serious situations in here. But yeah, the fact that
her hat and her sweater is the exact same color I think is very special. So
good job, Willow.
Jenny:​ Were you doing that in the 90s? I for sure was doing that in the 90s.
Kristin:​ Yeah, I don’t have— I mean, you know, some of these outfits give
me really hard smacks of memories. This one doesn’t smack me quite as
hard. But I’m sure that… I’m ​sure ​that I played this game. [Jenny laughs]
I’m certain that I played it.
Jenny:​ And we see this great interaction between Oz and Willow, where
Willow comes up and is like, “Hi.” And Oz is like, very Oz-ily, “Well, that’s
what I was gonna say.” And they have a sweet little interaction talking about
how they went to a movie— They went to a movie.
Kristin:​ They went to a movie. They don’t— He doesn’t remember the
movie, cause it was just, like, the popcorn.
Jenny:​ Except he remembers the popcorn. It’s a whole thing.
Kristin:​ Right. He’s very— I mean, it’s setting us up for this episode of Oz
which is just full of mixed messages.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ Oz is all over the map. And Willow gets super flustered and has a
great line where she’s like, “Oh. There. I... have my friend, so I will go to
her.” [laughter] And just, like, runs to Buffy like, “Help.” But it’s really cute,
‘cause they’re in this, like, period of time— We saw them last episode almost
kiss, and Oz was like, “Not now. Later.” And Willow has been waiting and
waiting and waiting. And I love Willow’s entire arc of this episode, where
she’s like, “I am done waiting.”
Jenny: ​Yeah!
Kristin:​ Willow is after it.
Jenny:​ Yeah, she’s ready to seize.


Kristin:​ She is. And this— I wanna just call out the fact that this was a
really long pre-credit situation. You know—
Jenny:​ Really long.
Kristin:​ We had— I, like, kept having more notes to write down, and was
like, “Do they not have credits in this episode?” Because then we go to
Larry.
Jenny:​ Oh! Larry being such a pig.
Kristin:​ Oh, the worst. Larry really— Again, if you want to talk about
journeys we go on, we go on a real big journey with Larry in this episode.
Because he is a nightmare.
Jenny:​ Yeah, total nightmare.
Kristin:​ He’s been— he’s been presented as a nightmare. But he’s especially
a nightmare—
Jenny:​ But this is, yeah, very extreme.
Kristin:​ Knocks— you know, he goes over to Oz, is doing the classic
[imitating Larry] “Oh, man, you’re dating a junior? Bet it’s ‘cause she puts
out. You should tell me all about it. Tell me about her boobs.” [Jenny laughs]
Like, what? Why? You know what I mean? What is going— what is even—
Okay. That’s— but then this girl—
Jenny:​ Also, “Thank you, ThighMaster”?
Kristin:​ Yes. So, right. ‘Cause this girl comes over. He knocks the books out
of her hands—
Jenny:​ Right.
Kristin:​ So that she bends over and he can check out her—
Jenny:​ Skirt?


Kristin:​ You’d think her ass, but he’s actually really—
Jenny:​ Looking at her thighs?
Kristin:​ He makes comments about her thighs. But super—
Jenny:​ Interesting. Also, remember ThighMaster?
Kristin:​ Yes! I was gonna say, you know, last time I had a moment like this
it was with the Giga Pet and I bought one, so now—
Jenny:​ Right. Please don’t buy a ThighMaster! [Kristin laughs] Please don’t
eBay a ThighMaster while I’m out of the house. Please! We don’t need a
ThighMaster! We’re fine!
Kristin​: I just like… why were ThighMasters such—
Jenny:​ Wait actually, now that I’m thinking about it, I kind of want a
ThighMaster.
Kristin:​ You want a ThighMaster. Okay. But why were they such a big deal?
Jenny:​ ‘Cause infomercials?
Kristin:​ But like, why the ThighMaster? You know? Why did everyone get
the ThighMaster?
Jenny:​ It was just a trend. It just caught on like wildfire.
Kristin:​ It just, like, it only works one thing—your thighs! Just one thing!
Jenny:​ But the thing is that, like—
Kristin:​ I guess probably your butt, too.
Jenny:​ Yeah, I think maybe we’re societally moving towards a more holistic
approach to things every day that— we had to start from somewhere that
was more compartmentalized.


Kristin:​ Start with the thighs. I will say that in the early 2000s I lived with
my friend Ingrid, and she is notorious for her desire to purchase everything
off of the television set at, like, three in the morning. And she purchased us
both the ab slider.
Jenny:​ What? You don’t need two!
Kristin: ​Well, it was, like, a buy one now and get the second free.
Jenny:​ BOGO? Yeah. You act now...
Kristin:​ So… I think it was the ab— no, it wasn’t the ab slider. It was this
disc that, like— you put your knees in these, like, knee bowls— they were
called knee bowls, because I remember assembling it.
Jenny:​ Knee bowls.
Kristin:​ You put your knees in the knee bowls and then you, like— it was on
a circle track, and you, like—
Jenny:​ Did you, like, knee bowl and then you knobbled but you didn’t fall
down?
Kristin:​ Wow. [laughs]
Jenny:​ Cool.
Kristin:​ Thanks, Jenny.
Jenny:​ You’re welcome.
Kristin:​ Anyway. I will say that we had a great time on those machines for
about one day. And then we put them on the curb, because who uses them?
[Jenny laughs] Anyway.
Jenny:​ Thinking about things you wish you could have not done, um… Then
Willow, in talking to Buffy about how she wants Oz to get on with it already,
is like, “I don’t wanna be the only girl in school without a real boyfriend.”


Kristin:​ Yeah. Oh, I—
Jenny:​ Weeks ago, this wasn’t even a blip on Willow’s radar. She was like,
“I love my computers.”
Kristin:​ I know, but she—
Jenny:​ “And I’m not concerned with—”
Kristin:​ She’s awakening! She’s blossoming like a flower in the springtime,
Jenny.
Jenny:​ Mm-hm. Blossoming into someone who says things like
“1-800-I’m-dating-a-skanky-ho.”
Kristin:​ Yeah, that’s where I thought you were going at first. [Jenny sighs]
That’s a really rough moment. There’s a couple of moments in this episode—
I mean this is a rough moment because it’s directed at Cordelia, and it’s
girl-on-girl hate based on sexual activity, which is just super, super bummer
town. Especially because, you know, it just doesn’t seem like it’s in their
wheelhouse to shame based on— You know what I mean? Willow just two
weeks ago was like, “Yeah, seize that shit, Buffy.”
Jenny:​ Right right right, but what we’re seeing is like classic misdirec— like,
redirect your disappointment, your sorrow, and your anger at Xander for not
wanting you back ​at​ Cordelia the object of his... affection?
Kristin:​ Right. And I think that Cordelia also gets pushed into that
category— ‘cause as I was saying that I was like, well, but Willow was super
into Buffy doing it with Angel because they were ​in love​ and Buffy had never
done it before. And I do think that there’s a really marked difference in the
perception of people. But especially, like, in the perception of girls in the 90s
(speaking as a person who was a girl in the 90s) where, you know, if you
were having sex, that wasn’t necessarily bad. But if you were having sex
with a bunch of people, or even making out with a bunch of people, that
would put you in a particular category.
And that’s what Willow is saying here, and it’s really rough. And she kind of


brings it on herself later on, when she’s in the library and Buffy is like, “Yo,
you need to take action. You need to be the one to make the first move.”
And she’s like, “But what if that— doesn’t that make me a slut?” And Buffy’s
like— And Buffy doesn’t, ugh. I just want them to be… I want them to be
woke. You know? I want them to be like, “No, of course not, Willow. And you
shouldn’t refer to yourself as a slut. You should love your body.”
Jenny:​ Uh huh. Uh huh.
Kristin:​ But of course they don’t. ‘Cause they’re teenagers and they don’t
know yet that they’re being manipulated by a system larger than
themselves.
Jenny:​ What system is that?!
Kristin:​ It’s the patriarchy! Jenny, it is the patriarchy.
Jenny:​ Oh! I’ve heard of that somewhere. On a podcast perhaps.
Kristin:​ So, speaking of the patriarchy then we go— [laughter]
Jenny:​ Lover’s lane.
Kristin:​ Lover’s lane. Okay, I have to just ask you, because this is— I have
seen this in movies and television shows for my whole life, and I have never
experienced it ever that there was a place where multiple people would drive
to make out. Is this something that you know and have experienced?
Jenny:​ Uh. Well, I lived, like, in the woods.
Kristin:​ Right.
Jenny:​ So the population wasn’t really dense enough for us, I think, to
require a lover’s lane.
Kristin: ​Oh, maybe that’s—
Jenny:​ There were like individual back road pockets, you know?


Kristin:​ Right, I mean there were definitely—
Jenny:​ Like your own one pers—two person lover’s lane. However many
people you’re with. Whatever, it’s fine.
Kristin:​ [laughs] But there wasn’t, like, a hot spot at least for me, and
maybe that’s for similar reasons. Maybe there was just enough roads in
upstate New York to not—
Jenny:​ Yeah. I mean, sometimes movie theaters were a thing.
Kristin:​ Yeah, that’s true. But not— I just feel like I missed out on
something, is all I’m saying, you know? Like a bunch of cars parked with all
the windows steamed up. It just seems so fun.
Jenny:​ Mm-hm, mm-hm.
Kristin:​ So if anyone knows of any good parking spots— necking spots in
Los Angeles, let us know so that Jenny and I can go relive our youth.
Jenny:​ Yeah, so we can go necking. Yeah.
Kristin:​ [laughs] Go necking.
Jenny:​ You just reminded me of the first time that I was in a movie theater
with a boy who used our time in the movie to, um, ​attempt​ to make out with
me? I don’t know if we like actually…
Kristin:​ Oh yeah. I remember my first movie makeout. What was the
movie?
Jenny:​ Well, my movie was ​Varsity Blues​.
Kristin:​ Oooooh!
Jenny: ​Starring James Van Der Beek of ​Dawson’s Creek​ fame.
Kristin: ​Wow, what a connection.


Jenny:​ Yeah, sharing the time block now with ​Buffy​.
Kristin:​ Mine… So that was later on, then. Do you remember was year that
was?
Jenny:​ I was probably like a sophomore or junior or something?
Kristin:​ Okay, yeah. ‘Cause my first movie makeout was ​Baby’s Day Out​.
[laughs]
Jenny:​ What... is that?
Kristin:​ I don’t know! I don’t— the only reason I remember the movie title
is because I was—
Jenny:​ Is it a prequel to ​Dirty Dancing​?
Kristin:​ [laughs] I wish.
Jenny:​ Is it a movie about a actual baby?
Kristin:​ There, no, there’s an actual baby.
Jenny:​ You can’t…
Kristin:​ It’s like the classic movie where like the baby’s in a runaway
stroller. Like, I think that’s like what the deal is, you know? It’s totally
ridiculous.
Jenny:​ What?
Kristin:​ And I went to the movie with this guy and we made out.
Jenny: ​Wow.
Kristin:​ And I think I was in eighth, uh, maybe ninth grade. ​Baby’s Day Out​.
Somebody do the research. Find out when ​Baby’s Day Out​ was released.
This is just like ​Quest for Camelot​. The only reason that this movie is being
put into the universe is because it has a very specific foothold in my life.


Anyway.
Jenny:​ Yes, moving right along.
Kristin:​ Cordelia, do you even want to be here? Is like her general vibe.
Jenny:​ Yeah yeah yeah.
Kristin:​ I’m, I’m impressed. This is really interesting, cause I think this like,
indicates that Cordelia has feelings here. Because Cordelia would NOT deal
with this shit. We have never seen her put up with ​anyone’s​ bullshit, and
yet, she’s putting up with Xander's bullshit.
Jenny:​ It's interesting.
Kristin:​ It’s very questionable. I don’t understand. And the ​only​ reason I
can give for this is that she has feelings. And she probably doesn’t know
what those are, you know.
Jenny:​ Right.
Kristin:​ And they're very new to her. Um… you know I love Cordelia, but I
have a real problem with how she calls her father “Daddy.” I don’t like it. It
makes me uncomfortable.
Jenny:​ We have received multiple twitter requests to not “daddy-shame.”
Kristin:​ I’m not “daddy-shaming”. I’m “daddy-shaming” in the context of it
being your actual father.
Jenny:​ Right, right, okay, great. Just to be clear. I just wanna be respectful.
Kristin:​ You can – I am super – we received multiple twitter requests about
this episode?
Jenny:​ Not this episode. Previous “daddy-shaming”.
Kristin:​ I'm’ not “daddy-shaming”. If you you have a “daddy” that is totally
awesome and great.


Jenny:​ It's just that at a certain point, like, post bat-mitzvah, post
quinceanera, post your debutante coming out ball, however you transition
into young womanhood. That is ​absolutely​ the hard cutoff for calling your
dad “daddy.”
Kristin:​ For calling your actual father “daddy.” There’s like also, like a
context here.
Jenny:​ It's like you’re infantilizing yourself?
Kristin:​ I mean, it's such a trope, with, like, rich girls. I think that why
Cordelia is saying this, because it’s really positioning her like as the rich girl.
Because she specifically says like “daddy’s car” so that’s why she's saying it,
I get it. I’m just saying, like, most things Cordelia does turn ​me ​on, this
turns me off. Maybe you’re into it, I’m not trying to shame you if you like it.
I’m just telling you, Cordelia, if you and I are going to be together, we’re
gonna have to have a conversation –
Jenny:​ Wait, what? That’s not the only conversation you’re gonna have to
have… [Kristin laughs] But also, like, you do you, I just want to support you
and see you happy.
Kristin:​ And then, Jenny, we get our first look at… some of the most –
Jenny:​ [laughs incredulously] oh-hohohohoho. [sarcastically] Spared no
expense!
Kristin:​ [laughs] Guys, the werewolf though.
Jenny:​ It looks great!
Kristin:​ It is the silliest. It's like…
Jenny:​ It's like they had everything ready, the script had been circulated,
everyone learned their line, the sets were built, everything was ready to go.
And then they realized, just as they were about to shoot to first scene with
the werewolf, “oh shit, we forgot to get a werewolf costume.” And then
Jerome, in costuming, ran down to Party City and was like, “do you have a


werewolf costume?” They’re like, “well, it's off season, so we only have the
ones that didn't sell because they're so bad… they’re in aisle 17.”
Kristin:​ [laughing] Yeah, buried underneath a pile of witch hats… matted
and squished… was the werewolf costume.
Jenny:​ [laughing] Yes! Oh no!
Kristin:​ And what’s incredible about this werewolf costume, is that not only
is it so ridiculous, but the camera ​cannot stop​.
Jenny:​ The camera ​loves it​ [laughs]
Kristin:​ [laughing] ​Loves it. ​It can’t –
Jenny:​ They can’t keep the cam – there's no – it’s like in ​Signs​, you know,
how like ​Signs​ is happening, and you're like, this movie is interesting, and
cool, and you’re like, if we never see the alien that would be great. But then
you start seeing the alien, like, in daylight, [Kristin laughing] and all over the
place, and it’s like, I think this would be more effective if there was some
sort of [dramatic voice] “shroud of mystery” or like [dramatic voice] “shroud
of darkness.”
Kristin:​ Right, like, a little shadow. They’re like, hey, lighting team, what do
you think – how should we light the werew – ​full lighting, ​full blast.
[laughing] Every hair on it’s head.
Jenny:​ Spotlight! [laughing]
Kristin:​ You can see every tooth in it’s ridiculous mouth. It is ​lit​. But here
before the credits, actually all we get is the silhouette. And you ​still ​can tell
that it’s the silliest.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ They should have put an actual dog in the shot, and it would have
been better than this bobble-headed, ridiculous excuse [Jenny laughs] for a
werewolf. I’m sorry… okay, so.


Jenny:​ Ohh. So.
Kristin:​ Then Cordelia’s driving.
Jenny:​ Well, first, before Cordelia’s driving, I’m just gonna say, I think
pretty regularly about all of the reasons not to have or drive a ragtop
convertible.
Kristin:​ Oh yeah?
Jenny:​ Similar to driving a motorcycle. Or like, a jeep that just has roll bars.
What are you doing? You're putting yourself at risk!
Kristin:​ And you just mean at general risk –
Jenny:​ Just in general! I wasn’t even factoring in werewolves, previously.
But a ragtop convertible is a perfect vehicle to get grabbed from above by
any​ clawed monster!
Kristin:​ And there are many here, we’re on the hellmouth!
Jenny:​ Particularly – oh, I bet the insurance for soft-top convertibles is way
higher on the hellmouth than it is elsewhere.
Kristin:​ Oh yeah, the hellmouth definitely has higher –
Jenny:​ Probably just insurance rates in general are pretty high.
Kristin:​ We should check with Geico. [laughs]
Jenny:​ Yeah! And that’s not the only reason, right, that Cordelia’s insurance
might be high.
Kristin:​ Right, it might be the fourteen cars she’s destroyed in a season and
a half of this show. Right, but the werewolf reaches through, Cordelia knows
exactly what to do. Put that key in, turn the car on, and slam your foot on
whatever petal you find.
Jenny:​ Any old petal.


Kristin:​ Any old petal will do. The car flies into reverse. I just get such a
thrill any time Cordelia – any time one of the plot points is “and then
Cordelia drives her car –” [both laugh]
Jenny:​ It never disappoints.
Kristin:​ And then Xander. Now Xander takes a turn. This is where Xander
takes his first turn into asshole alley.
Jenny:​ Wow.
Kristin:​ The car is speeding off, and they have just been attacked by a
werewolf. Cordelia has managed to get the fucking werewolf off of the car,
and you hear Xander as they pull away, say “See, I told you I saw
something.” I want to murder you. I want to murder you. I – just – I was so
angry with him. And then the scene cuts, and we’re in, now, sunny day –
Jenny:​ I don’t know. I think if I was like “I heard something” and you were
like “no” –
Kristin: ​As we were pulling away? When I almost died?
Jenny:​ Well, I guess when we almost got attacked by bears that one time,
we did wait until we got back to the car to get in a fight about it.
Kristin:​ Yes. Yes, correct. [Jenny laughs] Jenny and I almost got killed by
bears once, that’s a story –
Jenny:​ A story for another podcast
Kristin:​ A story for another day… Um, but [laughing] you at least take a
breath. He doesn’t take a breath, and that’s what bothers me. Fine, fine, he
was right, but that’s the thing. He always has to say when he’s right! He
always has to say when he’s fuckin’ right, Jenny. I can’t take it.
Jenny:​ Yep. Ugh.
Kristin:​ And then we cut to the next scene, ‘cause I’m already annoyed


now. We go to the next scene. They're in the parking lot, Buffy’s examining
the claw holes, and she’s like, “hmm, yes, hmmm, werewolf-ian.” And she
says “are you sure it was a werewolf?” And Xander can’t just say yes, he
can’t just fuckin’ say yes. He’s gotta say [imitating a stupid Xander voice]
“huh, well, I don’t know, Buffy, it was like, six feet tall, and it was hairy, and
wolfy, and ugh, fangs and a snout, and like, maybe I’m a dummy, but
maybe you’re –” But, just, ughhhhh. Xander! So, now I'm off to the races,
cause Xander has started to piss me off, but –
Jenny:​ But he’s just all… he's just in a worse state than regular. Right, like,
his heightened emotions. He’s got his, like, news ticker of like, “Buffy should
date me” running in the background somewhere on a lower volume. And
now he's like, “Whoa, Willow with another dude, I don’t like this!”
Kristin:​ No, he’s definitely – definitely on Xandr overload. And we know,
because we’ve watched the episode now, that they’re taking Xander on, like,
a major arc… or even a rollercoaster ride, in this… So, certainly. And I get
where his emotions are coming from. But me, Kristin Russo, I’m pissed off,
I’m not ​having ​it. I don’t want you to correct me and tell me that you were
right, I don’t need it. I don’t ​need​ it.
Jenny:​ [laughing] You know what you ​do​ need?
Kristin:​ What do I need? Willow –
Jenny:​ When you’re worried about the fate of bunnies when there’s a
werewolf on the loose. You need Oz to tell you that “bunnies can really take
care of themselves.”
Kristin:​ You’re right, I do. I love this. I love this moment, and I love, also –
speaking of clothing, like costume choices, by the dressing department…
what are they called?
Jenny:​ I don’t know, wardrobe? Costuming? I don’t know.
Kristin:​ But Willow is wearing a littles little t-shirt that we see for the first
time in this scene in the parking lot. With a doe on it, a little deer, which is
very symbolic, since –


Jenny:​ Doe, a deer?
Kristin:​ Yes.
Jenny:​ A female deer?
Kristin:​ Yes…
Jenny:​ That’s the whole...
Kristin:​ That’s all you know?
Jenny:​ That’s the whole narrative of the deer in the song, nothing else
happens to the deer.
Kristin:​ [in Long Island accent] A cute little doe-eyed deer. [normal voice]
You’re all welcome.
Jenny:​ I, yeah…
Kristin:​ Anyway, so Willow has a cute little doe-eyed deer on her shirt.
Which is, of course, this larger symbolism for her role with this relationship
with Oz, who we find out is a – duh, duh, duh, dahhh – werewolf, later in the
episode.
Jenny:​ So, they’re talking about, “Oh, huh, I guess we’ll have to wait until
next month to catch this werewolf.” And Willow’s like, “well, what about the
full moon that’s tonight?” And they’re like, so werewolf mythology expanding
– night before the full moon, night after the full moon.
Kristin:​ Right, that we have a three-night window.
Jenny:​ Also, Willow just happens to be actively tracking the lunar cycle?
She’s like “ah, well, tomorrow’s the full moon”?
Kristin:​ Yeah, that makes sense to me…
Jenny:​ According to my lunar... studies.


Kristin:​ Yeah, she probably has, like, an app on her computer.
Jenny:​ There were no apps in 1998.
Kristin:​ A widget? I don’t know…
Jenny:​ There were no widgets! [Kristin laughs] You’re a widget! Anyway,
Giles is elated, “one of the classics,” he says.
Kristin:​ Oh, my God, Giles, cannot –
Jenny:​ He can’t keep it together.
Kristin:​ He is more excited about this werewolf than we have seen him
about most things in this series.
Jenny:​ “My books and I are in for a fascinating afternoon.”
Kristin:​ Came close to taking the sexual tension award.
Jenny:​ [laughs] Giles and werewolf mythology.
Kristin:​ Giles and werewolf mythology, precisely. So, Giles is all hyped up.
Also, before we leave this scene I want to talk about the fact that Buffy is
wearing a cross necklace that is different. You see her wear – how many? My
question to you, the listener, is how many? I want to know how many
flipping cross necklaces does Buffy Summers own?
Jenny:​ Somebody out there knows
Kristin:​ Right, I just wanna know. That is like, quintessential trivia. How
many does she own? We’ve seen like, at least eight, at this point.
Jenny:​ Yeah, there have been a lot
Kristin:​ There have been so many. So, that’s all.
Jenny:​ Yeah, let us know.


Kristin:​ Anyhow, then we go to gym class.
Jenny:​ Self defense class in gym. I want self defense class
Kristin:​ Me too. I had like, ziplining, you know what I mean –
Jenny:​ You had ziplining?
Kristin:​ Yeah, we had like, a ropes course in our gym class.
Jenny:​ Geez. We had a month of square dancing when I was a senior.
Kristin: ​Oh wow. We had a dance part of gym.
Jenny:​ But like, regular dancing, not square dancing.
Kristin:​ But not – wow, you’re doing some shaming on square dancing.
Jenny:​ No, but – oh, yeah, I’m shaming square dancing. I’m just, like, from
the woods, that’s all. And all our gym teachers were ​really​ excited about it.
Like, we got the impression that they all went to, like, town square dances
when they were our age –
Kristin:​ Aww, that’s so cute.
Jenny:​ So they were like, really into it, and all of us were just, like,
mortified.
Kristin:​ I mean, it’s not cute if you’re the high school student having to do
it. But now looking back it's very cute
Jenny:​ [disgusted] And having to dance with like every boy.
Kristin:​ Yeah, my dance class, I just remember –
Jenny:​ Not that there's anything wrong with boys, or dancing with them,
but in high school, it’s like everything is mortifying, so… you know
Kristin:​ Now, did your gym teacher wear a tracksuit, is what I want to


know.
Jenny:​ All my gym teachers wore track suits, at different points,
undoubtedly.
Kristin:​ God, this gym teacher nailed it. I just feel like the casting
department was like, “hey, we need to cast a gym teacher, we’d like Jodie
Foster in a tracksuit,” and they found this woman.
Jenny:​ They’re like “how ‘bout this?”
Kristin:​ I love the gym teacher, shout out to you, gym teacher.
Jenny:​ Yeah, she’s great.
Kristin:​ Then Larry, being a giant asshole again.
Jenny:​ Good lord!
Kristin:​ “Be still my shorts.”
Jenny:​ The ​worst ​thing I've ever heard!
Kristin:​ Is a line that he says to Theresa. Before he then partners with
Buffy... and grabs her entire ass.
Jenny:​ And is rewarded for it… by being thrown across the room.
Kristin:​ Yeah, I mean, it’s just… unbelievable
Jenny:​ I think that is, like, beyond the pale.
Kristin:​ They really took this far.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ They really took it far –
Jenny:​ And did they need to take it this far for the payoff of what happens


later with Larry? I don’t know.
Kristin:​ Yeah, I don’t either. But, I mean, at least we get the satisfaction –
‘cause we get satisfaction in this scene with Larry, that I feel we do not get
with Cain. Who we haven’t yet –
Jenny:​ Cain does not get what’s coming to him.
Kristin:​ No, but I have a lot to say about what Cain gets at the end. But we
don’t get that, like gratification of a dude saying, like, “hey, I’m more
powerful than you” and Buffy saying, “oh yeah, I’m gonna fuck you up.”
Which is what​ I​ want as a viewer. And so, we get that in this scene, where
like, automatically, Larry does something super fucked up, and then gets
flipped on his back. And learns his lesson? Probably not, but yeah. So, Larry
gets a flip.
Jenny:​ Then we go to the library where research is being done with an earth
and moon globe. So what I wrote down in my notes is, ​this​ is something I
need.
Kristin:​ A moon globe?
Jenny:​ In my home. An earth and moon, connected, globular system, that I
can hold a flashlight up to, to demonstrate the light and dark sides of the
moon.
Kristin:​ For me? You’re gonna demonstrate this for me?
Jenny:​ For ​all of us​! Can we have it? Please.
Kristin:​ [laughs] Yes Jenny, we can have –
Jenny:​ If anyone knows where to find it, please let us know.
Kristin:​ I have just been – you know what, every day I walk around this
house, and I think, you know what it's missing? A globular system. [Jenny
laughs]. All – I can ​feel​ it in my bones, that if there was a globular system in
this house, I would feel content.


Jenny:​ It would feel like a home.
Kristin:​ Also, Giles ​loses his mind​ over Xander’s moonpie joke. Which is a
moment I really love. He’s like [imitating Giles] “muh muh, moonpie,
muhuhuhuh” I can't, I cannot.
Jenny:​ It’s really great. [laughs]
Kristin:​ So then we get to this amazing scene in the library. And we’re just
gonna play a sound clip to illustrate what we love about the scene in the
library.
[Audio clip from episode]
Giles: ​And it, uh, acts on pure instinct, not conscience. Uh, predatory
and aggressive.
Buffy:​ In other words, your typical male.
Xander: ​On behalf of my gender – hey!
Giles: ​Yes, let's not jump to any conclusions.
Buffy: ​I didn’t jump. I took a tiny step, and there conclusions were.
Jenny:​ “I took a tiny step, and there conclusions were.”
Kristin:​ Just a tiny step Buffy. We ​feel you.​ Uh, I love when the series –
‘cause, you know, the series – of course, we talk about the patriarchy every
week. But I love when it just takes a nice little moment, out of its day, to be
like, let's talk about it ​directly​. Buffy being like, “yes, what you’re describing.
I know you’re describing an animal, but turns out, tiny step to the left…
you're just describing every man I’ve ever known.” And I love that Giles gets
a little flustered, Giles gets defensive too. It’s not just Xander who’s like
“Hey.” Giles is like [confused noises] “Excuse me, but these werewolves can
also be women.” [Jenny laughs] We had, like, a double take moment,
because Giles actually says, “they’re not only men, they can be women, or
any – ”
Jenny:​ “Anyone who's been bitten by a werewolf.”
Kristin:​ Anyone who's been bitten, and so we were like, is Giles
acknowledging non-binary genders in 1998? But then, just a moment later,
we hear him say, “him or her,” and we kind of put it together that he was


meaning a child, can also…
Jenny:​ Right...
Kristin:​ But whatever, we’ll take it. We’ll pretend he’s talking about
non-binary people.
Jenny:​ Progressive in the 90s was “women can be werewolves too.”
Kristin:​ [laughs] Yeah, it was a different time. It was a different time! So,
right, I think the last thing I want to touch on before we get to the next
scene in the library is this very important bit of a werewolf's existence,
which is a werewolf is still a human being all the other days that it’s not
werewolf. Which really complicates the monster narrative that we usually
follow, which is, it’s a monster, it’s bad, we kill it.
Jenny:​ Right.
Kristin:​ I mean, that’s not just the only monster narrative. There’s a couple
of really complicated monster narratives also going on. But I like the fact
that it’s complicated, because this only happens three days out of the
month.
Jenny:​ Yeah, like 10% of the month.
Kristin:​ Right, right, so it’s just interesting. Like, what's the math there?
How many days of the month do you need to be a monster, for you to be a
killable monster?
Jenny:​ Right.
Kristin:​ All of the days? You know what what I mean? I just... I’m just
curious.
Jenny:​ Yeah…
Kristin:​ Anyhow, then we go to back to Lover’s Lane.
Jenny:​ Giles and Buffy are in detective mode.


Kristin:​ They are, they are. I really want Lover’s Lane to have like a fun
punny name for Sunnydale. So, if anything comes to you...
Jenny:​ Oh yeah, let us know.
Kristin:​ Oh yeah, I meant you, Jenny, but...
Jenny:​ Oh, you meant me? Hmm...
Kristin:​ Yes, or our listeners.
Jenny:​ Giles’s plan is, like, let’s knock on windows of cars.
Kristin:​ Giles...
Jenny:​ And see if anyone’s seen anything?
Kristin:​ Giles does not get it. Also, shout out to the fact that Buffy has
upgraded her disguise outfit. [Jenny laughs] We have moved from a tan
trench coat and tiny sunglasses, to a black trench coat with a black skully
cap.
Jenny:​ Yes!
Kristin:​ Yes.
Jenny:​ Yes, she’s ready...
Kristin:​ I’m into it.
Jenny:​ Well, she just got off her shift down at the docks [Kristin laughs] and
now it’s time for werewolf detecting.
Kristin:​ So yeah, Giles doesn’t understand what making out means. Buffy
sees some scandalous things about Sunnydale High School students. [Jenny
laughs] That was a great moment. And then of course Buffy gets snapped up
into Cain’s werewolf trap.


Jenny:​ This guy is the worst.
Kristin:​ It’s like, this episode was really designed for you and I to just be
angry the whole time.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ And probably a lot of you listening. I mean, like, he is infuriating
and I just want him to get his from this very first moment. And I give Buffy
a lot of credit because she contains herself, she keeps herself composed.
Jenny:​ Praise.
Kristin:​ This reminded me of watching the presidential debates [Jenny
laughs] leading up to the election and being like, I would vote for this
woman solely for the fact that she hasn’t picked up an entire table and
thrown it at this man’s head. I was just so impressed by that because I
would never, I could never, I would just snap. And Buffy keeps her cool
despite Cain being the worst human.
Jenny:​ Oh god. “Good to get the fruit.” Blegh. “While it’s fresh?”
Kristin:​ Ugh, the fruit while its fresh? Disgusting. His tooth necklace over
his turtleneck? Disgusting.
Jenny:​ Yeah his turtleneck is a bummer. I’m in… I love a good tooth
necklace, I’ll tell you what.
Kristin:​ It specifically on this man over his–
Jenny:​ Yeah, it’s the worst
Kristin:​ Turtleneck sweater, as trophies for the werewolves he has killed,
skinned and sold for money. I am not into it.
Jenny:​ Yeah, it’s a bummer.
Kristin:​ And also one of his character development points is that he’s
hunted an elephant. And I’m sorry, I had a conversation recently with


somebody who was like, ‘Well so and so has hunted – has killed an elephant,
but got all the right permits and got all the right whatever’s. And gave the
meat to the people in the town that he had hunted the elephant and did
everything right.” And I was like, I have all the room in my heart for
everything you’re saying except I don’t at all. Because you still killed an
elephant! How do you kill an elephant?!
Jenny:​ Dude.
Kristin:​ I just… this is again, my personal stuff. Like, I don’t know. I’m sure
there’s other ways of looking at the world and whatever. But to me it’s just
this majestic, brilliant creature. So smart! So Cain, fuck off. That’s what I
have to say to you.
Jenny: ​Mm, yes.
Kristin: ​There’s a lot of cursing in this episode. It’s because of all the
patriarchy, I’m sorry.
Jenny: ​Oh yeah.
Kristin: ​Yeah, so you –
Jenny:​ He does get a sweet burn in when he says that Giles looks like he’s
auditioning to be a librarian.
Kristin: ​[laughing] Yes and Giles is so insulted–
Jenny: ​Incensed
Kristin:​ He’s like, “I’ve already gotten the role of the librarian.” [laughing]
Jenny:​ Yeah. And we also learn in this scene that werewolves are
apparently suckers for sexual heat.
Kristin: ​Yes! They love… there was a werewolf behind the scenes at every
sexual tension award site since the beginning of time, [Jenny laughing] you
just didn’t see them there.


Jenny: ​Yo okay so in the next scene, Theresa is walking home–
Kristin: ​I’m sorry, you’re not allowed to go there until we at least Mein
Furrier.
Jenny: ​Oh, I forgot about Mein Furrier.
Kristin: ​Okay, that’s all, we just have to say it.
Jenny: ​Mein Furrier.
Kristin: ​Mein Furrier. Okay, Theresa...
Jenny: ​Theresa is walking home at night, she hears something behind her.
She’s getting more and more spooked. She runs smack into Angel and we
witness the passage of time as demarcated by the fact that Angel has now
been evil long enough to go to CVS and buy some eyeliner. [Kristen
laughing] Evil Angel wears eyeliner. There it is. He was finally able to pick
some up at the all night CVS.
Kristin: ​Do you think he was really uncomfortable until he got his eyeliner?
Like, he was evil and he was like, “this just doesn’t feel right.”
Jenny:​ Yeah, he’s like, I’ve been smoking, I’ve been putting white powder
on my face so I look more undead. But I need to bring out my eyes
somehow.
Kristin:​ Also… do you think that he actually went to CVS to buy his eyeliner?
‘Cause I just feel like he probably is sharing with Spike. You know what I
mean? Like, Spike totally has eyeliner.
Jenny:​ Hmm, but I don’t think Spike shares.
Kristin:​ Ohh okay. I see
Jenny:​ With Angel. I don’t think that’s their vibe.
Kristin:​ Right, okay. Fair. Not even nail polish? Okay, fine. [Jenny laughs]
But Theresa, I’d like to give a shout out to Theresa.


Jenny:​ She’s great.
Kristin:​ She’s great! What a great character that we only get to hang out
with for a short while. She’s just… I just think that her acting is great. Like
the moment when she’s surprised by Angel and she’s still scared about
what’s behind her, I thought was just wonderful. I just love her character, as
little of her as we get to see. But I also wanted to take a Kate moment here
and say, nice plaid peacoat, Theresa. [Jenny laughs] I too had a plaid
peacoat.
Jenny:​ Oh, did you?
Kristin:​ In the 1990s.
Jenny:​ Wow.
Kristin:​ And I appreciate you. Speaking of outfits, unless you have more to
say about Theresa and Angel–
Jenny:​ Go for it.
Kristin:​ I would like to give a major shout out to Cordelia’s outfit in the next
scene at the Bronze. When she is wearing a Tommy Hilfiger turtleneck
sweater, with a strip across the chest that says Tommy Hilf–
Jenny:​ Tommy Tommy Tommy Tommy Tommy Tommy Tommy.
Kristin:​ A fold over turtleneck that has the Tommy Hilfiger colors striped
across the bottom of the fold. It is wonderful. I love it. [Jenny laughs] I love
it so much and the only thing I love more is that our girls are back together
again.
Jenny:​ Yeah! Reunited and it feels so good. Just griping together about
Xander and Oz and guys.
Kristin:​ God! They hate – they’re in the Bronze on a tiny little couch
together, hating men together. Oh, it’s great. It’s just what dreams were
made of, I think. I would like to give Cordelia her jingle for her Tommy


Hilfiger sweater and for this wonderful love affair, which I would like to
award Sexual Tension for.
Jenny:​ Wow.
Kristin:​ Yeah. Anytime I can give it to Cordelia and Willow [Jenny laughs] I
always will.
Jenny:​ Perfect.
Kristin:​ So Cordelia, for you a jingle.
[Cordelia jingle plays]
Cordelia (​ah-ahh​)
I love you Cordelia (​ah-ahh​)
You’re perfect Cordelia (​ah-ahh​)
Jenny:​ Great.
Kristin:​ Praise heavens. We haven’t heard the Cordelia jingle in a couple of
episodes now. I was starting to feel nervous. I also just wanna say, Jenny, I
think we’re really in some territory now for a Willow jingle.
Jenny:​ Oh!
Kristin:​ This episode in particular, I think, has inspired my feelings. I mean,
I’ve always had them, but they’re growing. And I think I just wanna put a
bug in your ear.
Jenny:​ Okay, I’ll have a think on it.
Kristin:​ That I think we should really work on that.
Jenny:​ Okay.
Kristin:​ Before we leave this I just wanna quote the line. “Guys, who do
they think they are?” and Willow says, “Couple of guys.” [laughing] So good!
Jenny:​ It was really good.


Kristin:​ So good. So then of course, the werewolf.
Jenny:​ The werewolf is at the Bronze.
Kristin:​ Yes, heat seeking leads him to the Bronze.
Jenny:​ Everyone runs out of the Bronze. Buffy’s rolling up.
Kristin:​ They slam the door.
Jenny:​ Behind her. For some reason, the werewolf did not chase any
humans. Any flesh bodies.
Kristin:​ Jenny, he was too busy knocking every single table over.
Jenny:​ [laughing] Every table over.
Kristin:​ He was like, ugh, they’re all leaving but [Jenny laughing] there’s
still three tables standing up. I must... [laughing]
Jenny:​ Bop, bop bop. Then he leads Buffy on a chase through several
beaded curtains.
Kristin:​ Yes. This is a moment for me where I was like, oh my god, I had
those! [Jenny laughing] I had those beaded curtains, I put them in my
bedroom doorway. So that even though my mom made me keep my door
open I still had some level of privacy.
Jenny:​ 40% privacy.
Kristin:​ Yeah! [laughing]
Jenny:​ Kind of like Angel, with his blind lighting.
Kristin:​ With his Venetian blinds, that was me in the 90s with beaded
curtains. [laughing] There must be just a great moment with the werewolf
because I just have in all caps written down, “Oh God this werewolf.”


Jenny:​ Oh, I think what you’re referring [Kristen laughing] to is after the
werewolf exits the Bronze, comes out into the moonlit alley. [laughing and
chokes on laughter] It’s gonna kill me, does this sort of T-Rex pose?
Kristin:​ And then kind of like dances for a second?
Jenny:​ Twists for two revolutions and then runs off into the night.
Kristin:​ Oh God.
Jenny:​ And comes across the body of our dearly departed–
Kristin:​ Yes, Theresa.
Jenny:​ Theresa. And we see this sort of monster face off.
Kristin:​ I called it a hissing contest. [both laughing]
Jenny:​ You are smart and funny and I married you on purpose.
Kristin:​ It is, right? It’s like the werewolf is hissing and fucking Angel’s
hissing [Jenny laughs] and Angel gets out hissed. And there’s a real dog-cat
situation happening here. Where like, obviously the werewolf is the dog and
Angel is very cat-like.
Jenny:​ Oh yeah.
Kristin:​ ‘Cause Angel has this look on his face, like he’s growling and he
knows that he’s out hissed but he’s rolling his eyes about it, like a cat.
Jenny:​ Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin:​ Ugh, fine I guess you can –
Jenny:​ I wasn’t even trying to out-hiss you, I was just like –
Kristin:​ [They both laugh] Um, right. Two things before we even get to the
hissing contest. Cain –


Jenny:​ Ughhhhh.
Kristin:​ “This is what happens when a woman tries to a man’s job.”
Jenny:​ Shut up Cain, shut up! Shut up!
Kristin:​ I literally – like, if these microphones weren’t so expensive, I would
bend it in half.
Jenny:​ As though it were a long gun?
Kristin:​ As though it were a long gun, yes. For that line alone because you
can fucking go fuck yourself, Cain. [They both laugh] That was me trying to
censor myself and failing at every turn.
Jenny:​ At least you didn’t offend anyone else by implicating them in
relations with Cain.
Kristin:​ No, no, no. Also, I just [laughs] – we already made fun of the
Bronze table tippage, but the fucking – the fact that the minute the werewolf
goes back into the alley, four Bronze employees immediately go back and
are cleaning up.
Jenny:​ There’s just like “Ugh, again? This is the fourth time this week a
werewolf has been in to tip over all the tables.”
Kristin:​ Shout out to the Bronze employees, you know?
Jenny:​ Hard workers.
Kristin:​ Hard workers, they always have to clean up that joint. Okay, so this
is why – we find out why we have the dollar store werewolf costume. It is
because they spent their entire budget on morphing the one dollar costume
into Oz.
Jenny:​ Who is priceless.
Kristin:​ Who is priceless [laughs]. Via the technology used in Michael
Jackson’s “Black or White” video.


Jenny:​ Mmhmm.
Kristin:​ As soon as it happened, I was like [sings] “Doesn’t matter if you’re
black or white.”
Jenny:​ You were both times.
Kristin:​ Both times – I just can’t – it’s such a memory! Right? Do you not
have this memory of that video coming out? It was mind-blowing that the
people morphed into other people and then that he morphed into a ​jaguar​ at
the end.
Jenny:​ Wow, I don’t – you know, we didn’t have MTV until I was in later
high school –
Kristin:​ You’re missing out. After this, you wanna watch the video for “Black
or White” for Michael Jackson?
Jenny:​ Probably, that would be good, yeah.
Kristin:​ Okay, it was a big deal ‘cause I think it was really new technology
and really expensive technology.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ So anyway, we get that here so that’s the budget. That’s where it
went.
Jenny: ​Great.
Kristin:​ Oz has this incredible response to waking up naked in the forest.
Jenny:​ [chuckles] Yeah.
Kristin:​ He just says “Huh.” [They both laugh] Then he goes home and he
calls his aunt and he’s like “Yo, is my cousin a werewolf?” And like, what the
fuck happens on this phone conversation?


Jenny:​ The aunt is just like “Yes.” And he’s like “How long has that been
going on?” And she’s like “A couple weeks. Why?” And he’s like “No reason.
Give my love to Uncle Ken.”
Kristin:​ But also, the aunt knows that he got bit by the kid.
Jenny:​ Yeah, so what irresponsible werewolf parenting.
Kristin:​ That’s what I’m saying! Yeah, I agree. That is my point. Also, Oz is
wearing another New York shirt.
Jenny:​ Oh yeah.
Kristin:​ I just wanted to shout that out because we saw Oz wearing a New
York Rangers shirt in his first moment and now he’s wearing a New York
yoga shirt and I just feel like there’s something there, that’s all. I like it, I
like the New York shoutouts.
Jenny:​ So moving into the next scene, we see Oz get to school and he’s
walking through the hallways and this is the first time we’ve seen him
anywhere close to flapped.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ He is flapped as hell!
Kristin:​ He is so upset and that’s what’s so interesting, is that he was totally
calm, cool, and collected until he got confirmation that he was a werewolf
and now…
Jenny:​ And started as any of us would, thinking about the larger
implications.
Kristin:​ Yes, what does this mean? Who can I tell? Interesting –
Jenny:​ Am I going to hurt somebody?
Kristin:​ Interesting parallel is drawn here, of course we haven’t gotten to
Larry yet. But I want to talk when we get there about the fact that they kind


of laid over this Oz finding out he’s a werewolf with Larry coming out as gay.
Jenny:​ Mmmm.
Kristin:​ There’s this overlap that’s a little confusing to me? But we’ll get
there. For now, why don’t we get to the part where Xander slips and lets
Buffy know that he actually does remember being a fucking hyena.
Jenny:​ Huuuurgh!
Kristin:​ Which is so problematic and upsetting because when Xander was a
hyena, he did super super messed up stuff to Buffy at the school and
pretended like he didn’t remember it instead of taking ownership and
apologizing for his atrocious actions.
Jenny:​ Gross.
Kristin:​ So not a great moment there for Xander. But we will turn some
bends with Xander, they’re coming despite this nonsense.
Jenny:​ Xander does put together “Oh, Larry. Predator. Werewolf. Larry got
bit by a dog…”
Kristin:​ Yes but I found this very odd because they are very clear with the
definition of a werewolf, that it brings out your most animalistic self for three
nights, right?
Jenny:​ Right.
Kristin:​ So I’m very confused here about how everyone suddenly pivots that
to mean that as a person, you’re animalistic and you act out and you
whatever.
Jenny:​ I think they’re just flailing, I think they just don’t know. They’ve
never dealt with this before so they’re just kind of turning over every rock
they can think of. Just going to say, Larry said, I believe, that the dog had
bit him a couple of weeks ago which would not fit in ​at all ​with the lunar
cycle of the werewolf vibe.


Kristin:​ Well, why? Oh, because you have to get bit when – no, ‘cause the
baby bit –
Jenny:​ Okay, but the baby was a baby when the baby bit Oz.
Kristin:​ Oh, right. Okay, got it. ‘Cause the dog –
Jenny:​ A ​dog​ bit Larry when the moon was not full.
Kristin:​ Yes, I see. Good math, Jenny.
Jenny:​ Thank you.
Kristin:​ You’re welcome. So then they think it’s Larry and Xander goes to
the locker room and oh what a scene.
Jenny:​ Yo, I think this is really great.
Kristin:​ Yeah, I do too. I’m way into this scene. It’s done –
Jenny:​ [laughing] I love when Xander says “I know what you’ve been doing
at night.”
Kristin:​ [laughing] I know.
Jenny:​ And that’s when Larry is like “Stop sticking your nose…”
Kristin:​ Yeah, has Larry been in the gay bushes? Like, what’s going on?
Jenny:​ Probably.
Kristin:​ Sunnydale is so expansive [Jenny laughs], it has so many
opportunities for people. Gay bushes, docks…
Jenny:​ Many alleys.
Kristin:​ So many alleys. Maybe there’s gay alleys…
Jenny:​ Oooo.


Kristin:​ Instead of gay bushes.
Jenny:​ Maybe. Maybe it’s all subdivisions of different alley neighborhoods.
Kristin:​ Yes, yeah [laughs].
Jenny:​ Gay alleys, the arts alleys…
Kristin:​ Oooo, nice.
Jenny:​ That’s where the Bronze is.
Kristin:​ So, I think that this scene is done really really well.
Jenny:​ The thing – my favorite thing about this is when Larry is kind of
pacing around and he’s about to say it and then he turns and says “What are
people going to think of me when they find out I’m gay?” And then his face…
Kristin:​ His ​face​.
Jenny:​ His face is really great, he has this – you see him kind of hearing
himself say it out loud for the first time and it’s very powerful but it’s cut
very short because they go to the reaction shot of Xander –
Kristin:​ But Xander’s –
Jenny:​ Which has to be prolonged in order to really have the effect.
Kristin:​ Yeah, but Xander – I have a note down to give Xander credit for his
– or not Xander, but Nicolas Brendon’s acting, I thought was incredible too –
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ His reaction is amazing. It’s not like – the scene is handled so
delicately and respectfully. There’s not shock and awe built into it really at
all. Obviously it’s a pivotal moment and Xander is like “Whoa, this is not
where I saw this going.”


Jenny:​ Right.
Kristin:​ But Xander does not have a response of like [intensely] “Whoa,
what?! You’re gay?!” Xander’s like “Oh wow, we are in a different place than
I thought we were going to be –”
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ “How do I handle this?”
Jenny:​ Coupled with “Oh, I just said I have gone through the same thing.”
Kristin:​ Yes, and he struggles with that but he – I gave Xander a lot of
credit, and maybe too much, I don’t know, you can let us know your
thoughts are on this scene. But I just thought that Xander really handled
himself pretty well and it wasn’t – he didn’t protest too much.
Jenny:​ Right. The amount of – the fraction of “no homo” –
Kristin:​ Right.
Jenny:​ Is so much smaller in his response than I think we would expect
from something that was made in this time.
Kristin:​ Yes and than we would expect from Xander. You know –
Jenny:​ His fragile masculinity, right?
Kristin:​ Right and I have a new little spot opening in my heart for Xander.
And I’m not saying that this is perfectly handled, but we are dealing with
teenagers in the 1990s dealing with the patriarchy as well, and dealing with
the masculinity that they are being challenged to present.
Jenny:​ Mmhmm.
Kristin:​ So there are a lot of factors and I have a space in my heart for
Xander that wasn’t there before this scene. Because I think that he did a
pretty decent job with Larry here and Larry… man, talk about turning on a
dime.


Jenny:​ Yeah, his face is soft all of a sudden.
Kristin:​ He’s so sweet. And sorry to turn this corner right now, but one of
my other thoughts – and I don’t know if this is going to be upsetting to
people or not – but I just feel like – okay. Two guys are in a locker room,
they’re both in high school. They’ve both just come out to each other in
Larry’s mind.
Jenny:​ Right.
Kristin:​ There is no way that you could tell me that Larry wouldn’t have it in
his brain that they were going to hook up. And I’m not saying that –
Jenny:​ It’s just a numbers game.
Kristin:​ It’s a numbers game and I’m saying that as a person who was gay
in high school, that if I met another person who was gay in my high school,
there’s no way I wouldn’t be like “Well, I guess we have to make out.”
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ That is not to hammer the stereotype of “all gay people are
attracted to all other gay people.” That’s not what I’m saying. I’m just
saying, when you’re in high school and you don’t know anyone else who’s
gay – although apparently Larry’s been getting some in the gay alleys – I
just feel that was a little unbelievable to me that there wouldn’t have even
been a moment… although I like that there wasn’t ‘cause I like what this
scene was. But I’m just saying.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ I remember high school and I remember being gay in high school.
And maybe Larry just went home and was like “Hmm, I wonder how I can
get closer to Xander.”
Jenny:​ Right.
Kristin:​ Oh, I wish we saw that plot.


Jenny:​ Now that he knows it’s okay for him to be sensitive…
Kristin:​ Awww, he picks up the books later… [Jenny squeals] He’s so nice.
Okay, anyway.
Jenny:​ So Willow’s researching violent students on the computer.
Kristin:​ Finding Buffy…
Jenny:​ And finding mostly Buffy.
Kristin:​ [laughs] And then in the following scene, we have Xander realizing
that Willow and Cordelia are hanging out a whole bunch.
Jenny:​ And he is sweating it out!
Kristin:​ He is sweating it out and I love it. Wow, these two gals are sure
[laughs]…
Jenny:​ Spending a lot of time together.
Kristin:​ So Cordelia and Willow go to meet up so they can work on their
quote “homework”.
Jenny:​ Yeah, yeah.
Kristin:​ Sure, girls, sure that’s what you’re doing. Mmhmm. And then
Xander and Buffy take the opportunity to go to the funeral home.
Jenny:​ But before they do, Xander lets Buffy know that Larry is not the
werewolf. In what I think is a pretty great little bit.
Kristin:​ Yes. He’s feeling really uncomfortable and that’s kind of – I’m not
actually going to dock points from Xander because I really do have a lot of
room for his process here. But this is where, if we were going to dock points
from Xander, we would. Because really the reason Xander is keeping it to
himself is mostly motivated, I think, by the fact that he’s afraid he’ll
implicate himself.


Jenny:​ Right.
Kristin:​ By outing Larry.
Jenny:​ Right.
Kristin:​ So it’s like, points to Xander for not outing Larry, but not really
because I think the reason you’re not saying anything is ‘cause you’re scared
that people might think you’re gay. Which again, I have room for all of this.
Jenny:​ But seeing that fragility and panic in action is pretty amusing.
Kristin:​ Exactly. No, it’s great. So then Xander and Buffy go to the funeral
home. Theresa has not been attacked by a werewolf, this is confirmed and
then has been attacked by a vampire. A vampire so brilliant that he has
sired Theresa with the instructions that when she awakens and sees Buffy
[Jenny chuckles], she deliver a message from Angel. Which is –
Jenny:​ Pretty sick.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ Pretty twisted.
Kristin:​ I mean, Angel is pretty incredible at being horrible.
Jenny:​ Yeah, he’s really going hard. Also for some reason that no one will
ever be able to explain, Theresa’s family has opted to bury her in a 60s flight
attendant Halloween costume.
Kristin:​ [laughs] Hey, maybe it was her favorite outfit.
Jenny:​ Maybe it was just down the alley – down the aisle from the leftover
werewolf costumes [Kristin laughs] at Party City.
Kristin:​ So this is a moment for Xander too.
Jenny:​ This is maybe Xander’s best moment on the series to date.


Kristin:​ It’s certainly Xander’s best kill. I mean, this is incredible.
Jenny:​ Oh, the ​kill​.
Kristin:​ Yeah. What are you talking about?
Jenny:​ Oh. His best moment in the series to date in my opinion is –
Kristin:​ When he hugs –
Jenny:​ “Don’t let him get to you, he’s not the same guy you knew.”
Kristin:​ Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Jenny:​ That’s pretty great.
Kristin:​ Okay so let’s – [stutters]
Jenny:​ So great kill –
Kristin:​ I think it’s a one-two punch –
Jenny:​ With the funeral home easel!
Kristin:​ With the easel feet! Which is a tight, tight kill, just really, really
great. He doesn’t hesitate, he doesn’t miss a beat. Buffy is super upset. And
he takes care of her.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ He does and this is – I don’t know that we have really – we’ve seen
it in little moments, but this is active. You know, Xander is actively being like
“Wow, she needs me right now and that’s more important than my stuff.”
And he does it. So he gets some points.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ This is good! This is good. “He’s not the same guy you knew,” he


says which is really – [Jenny sighs] again, this validating thing that Giles
gave to Buffy in the last episode –
Jenny:​ Mmhmm.
Kristin:​ That he was in love in you, he did love you, it was real. Xander’s
really giving that to her too in this moment, that this was real and he is
different now, and what you knew was valid and true.
Jenny:​ [sighs] I’m getting very emotional.
Kristin: ​Mmhmm. Yeah it was a good moment for them.
Jenny:​ Then…
Kristin:​ So…
Jenny:​ [They both laugh] Listen, we have to talk about this!
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ For somebody who claims to be a ​seasoned​ werewolf hunter, don’t
you think Cain would find time during the daylight non-hunting hours to be
making his silver bullets in his van workshop?!
Kristin:​ Probably but… I will say that it’s very satisfying to watch him make
the silver bullets.
Jenny:​ It kind of made me want to make some silver bullets.
Kristin:​ Right? Me too, I would love to make a sil – maybe we should pitch a
workshop for next A Camp: Making Silver Bullets with Kristin and Jenny.
[They both laugh] One more thing about Cain before we go to the next
scene is just: what is with this guy’s haircut? [Jenny laughs] It’s like he put
his head in a blender and was like “That’s good, I’m ready to go for the
werewolves, guys.” Just saying. So then we go to Oz. Number one question I
have…
Jenny:​ Oh my gosh.


Kristin:​ Oz, where did you get these cuffs?
Jenny:​ Oz is like “Thank god those manacles came from eBay just in time.”
Kristin:​ What? But they’re in an old cardboard box like they were in the
basement, you know?
Jenny:​ Or they were just shipped from an eBay seller in Phoenix.
Kristin:​ I don’t know if you remember the 90s, Jenny, but you cannot get
anything overnighted, even toothpaste, let alone…
Jenny:​ Well, I think he wanted them like days before, but they only just
arrived – oh, right.
Kristin: ​No, he just found out yesterday. Today!
Jenny:​ Sorry, forgot, I forgot. Well, maybe he wanted them for something
else and then he was like “Oh, thank god I wanted these exact –”
Kristin:​ Sure, right.
Jenny:​ I’m just trying to come up with something over here!
Kristin:​ Anyway, Willow is on –
Jenny:​ She’s seizing the day.
Kristin:​ A mission. And I love it. She barges in the door literally, she doesn’t
stop knocking until Oz gets up.
Jenny:​ Hell yeah.
Kristin:​ Then she gets inside the house and she’s delivering this whole
frantic speech [Jenny laughs] about how enough is enough. And she has this
mixed up line where she says “What a girl makes has to be the first move.”
So she’s all fired up and Oz is in a panic and Oz is like “Not now, please not
now.” And she is like “No, I am finally seizing the day here.”


Jenny:​ Mmhmm.
Kristin:​ And then Oz falls behind the couch and up he comes.
Jenny:​ And pop comes the wolf.
Kristin:​ And now I would like to play for you – I have a little segment here
that I would like to do about screaming because I would like to play Willow’s
scream which I think is incredible.
[Audio clip plays]
[Oz is growling]
Willow: ​[high-pitched scream]
Kristin: ​Okay, so incredible incredible scream by Willow and I played it
because as I listened to it, I was like “Wow, that’s a great scream.” And it
made me think of my favorite horror scream of all time which is Patricia
Arquette in Nightmare on Elm Street 3: Dream Warriors. She plays a
character named Kristin, I know you know this, I’ve already talked about it.
[Jenny laughs] But she has the most incredible scream and so I just want to
play –
So this scream, this Patricia Arquette, it’s an extended scream and it is the
scene in Nightmare on Elm Street 3 towards the end when Patricia Arquette
is in this giant room with this huge rug, this patterned rug. And Freddy
comes up through the floor as a giant worm with a giant fucking Freddy
head. And he comes up out of the floor in a way that scoops her up and he
eats half of her body basically and then the whole worm slams down on the
rug with Patricia Arquette.
Jenny:​ [grossed out] Ugh.
Kristin:​ It’s just – it’s really something and so – there’s many screams we
could have chosen of Patricia Arquette in this episode, but this is the one
you’re going to hear.
[Audio clip plays]
[Scary music plays; Freddy Worm busts out of the floor.]


Patricia Arquette: ​[screams for roughly 13 seconds]
Kristin:​ [sighs]
Jenny:​ Music to my ears.
Kristin:​ God it’s just, have you ever – please write to me and let me know if
there is ​anyone​ in history who has ever had a better horror scream than
Patricia Arquette. It’s like she gets the high pitch and then it rolls into this
moan pitch, it’s just – [Jenny laughs] I’m just saying, I think it’s an art
form, I think it’s beautiful and Willow taps into a little bit of that here.
Nobody can touch my Patricia Arquette but Willow takes a stab at it and
does a pretty good job.
Jenny:​ And then she runs and runs and runs and runs all the way to the
library.
Kristin:​ All the way to the library where Buffy is in another trench coat.
Jenny:​ Buffy has so many trench coats, you said.
Kristin:​ That’s another question, how many cross necklaces and how many
trench coats does Buffy Summers have? She runs in, Oz is the werewolf,
he’s in the woods but don’t kill him.
Jenny:​ Right and they’ve got this tranquilizer gun they’ve been putting
together and Giles says, oh, well it’s full of phenobarbital. And he says that
it’s enough for one small elephant, so it should be enough for one large
werewolf. And this is another installment of a segment I’d like to call Hell
Math –
[Hell Math jingle: Piano arpeggio plays. “Helllll Maaaaath”]
Jenny:​ [Kristin giggles] Where we discuss mathematic equations and
equivalencies –
Kristin:​ Yes.
Jenny:​ That only occur in the Hellmouth.


Kristin:​ In the Hellmouth. Last week, we learned that true love plus one
orgasm equals one negative soul. [Jenny laughs] That was our hell math.
Jenny:​ And today we’re learning that one small elephant is equivalent to
one large werewolf in terms of phenobarbital. Great.
Kristin:​ Great. Excellent, excellent, excellent. So they get out into the
woods, Oz is there, Cain is there, Cain is trying to kill Oz, Buffy kicks the
gun, right? As he shoots it, kicks the gun –
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ Throws Cain off his game.
Jenny:​ Mmhmm.
Kristin:​ Then it’s just like this dance that happens.
Jenny:​ Yes.
Kristin:​ Then Buffy is fighting, the wolf has Buffy up in the air –
Jenny:​ Yep.
Kristin:​ In his arms which is just ​hilarious.
Jenny:​ Giles can’t get a shot – yeah.
Kristin:​ Which is just a man in a wolf suit [Jenny laughs] holding Buffy.
Buffy has a great move where she takes the gun that’s on the wolf’s neck
and sort of slams it down to get out of his grip.
Jenny:​ Yes, right.
Kristin:​ But then she ricochets, knocks Giles and Willow down –
Jenny:​ Some Three Stooges shit.


Kristin:​ Really Three Stooge situation happening there. But then Willow
grabs the gun, she doesn’t hesitate.
Jenny:​ Nah.
Kristin:​ She picks up the gun, she aims it, she shoots Oz with the
tranquilizer.
Jenny:​ Hell yeah.
Kristin:​ Oz goes down, Cain is ​pissed​.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ And now we get this moment between Buffy and Cain that at first,
when we watched it the first time, I was disappointed because she just looks
at him, she bends the gun, and she’s like “Why don’t you get out of this
town?” And I was like “Come on, man.” I just wanted him to get beat up or
something, but I want to say, Jenny, on my second viewing, I was like “You
know what? No, this is pretty tight.” This is actually the fucking way of a
woman, you know what I mean? I don’t even have to drag you down, man,
I’m just going to bend this gun, let you know that I could kick your ass and
tell you to get the fuck out of my face.
Jenny:​ Yeah!
Kristin:​ I think it’s probably more powerful than actually kicking his ass.
Jenny:​ Yeah!
Kristin:​ And I’m into it.
Jenny:​ I would still like to see her kick his ass. [Kristin laughs] But I think
it’s a great second option.
Kristin:​ Yes.
Jenny:​ So then the next day at school, we see Larry is transformed. He is
picking up books for girls who are having books knocked out of their hands


by guys who are like Larry used to be back when he was overcompensating.
Kristin:​ Right and this is where we get this direct overlay. You know,
because Xander and Buffy walk in and Buffy is talking about Oz and how it’s
going to be weird to see Oz now that he’s transformed.
Jenny:​ Uh huh.
Kristin:​ And Xander has been having a conversation which is of course odd,
because he knows that Buffy doesn’t know.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ But whatever, we’ll let it fly. Xander’s been having the conversation
talking about Larry because Larry has transformed, right? So there’s two
transformations that have happened here. And I just think it’s an interesting
thing because I don’t – it’s not like this parallel that has lot of like, “oh, the
werewolf can symbolize this and this like is being gay and blah.” And I don’t
really exactly get it except for the fact that Larry has transformed because
he has been able to speak about who he truly is, and then Oz has gotten to
a place where he can accept who he truly is –
Jenny:​ Mmhmm.
Kristin:​ Which is a werewolf. I think that’s where the parallel stops? But I
found it interesting. And I also [laughs] – I also just want to give one more
shout out to Nicholas Brendon, the actor, for this moment he has where
Larry is approaching and [laughs] he doesn’t want Larry to come over and
talk to him because he’s still feeling fragile about his masculinity. And so his
tactic [Jenny laughs] to get Larry not to talk to him is to look at the vending
machine and run his fingers up and down the corner of the vending machine.
Jenny:​ [laughs] Very effective.
Kristin:​ It’s just a really good moment. And so Larry and Xander have this
moment that is kind of sweet.
Jenny:​ Yeah.


Kristin:​ I mean, it isn’t because it’s laced with Xander being…
Jenny:​ All panicky.
Kristin:​ All panicky but I do just like – it’s really sweet on Larry’s part that
he’s coming over to be like “I just need to thank you again, man, you really
changed me.”
Jenny:​ And I think it’s really important that we acknowledge – I think this is
ahead of its time in terms of illustrating how damaging it is for a person who
is gay to feel like they have to –
Kristin:​ Yes.
Jenny:​ Hold on to that and how toxic it can be to sort of keep that to
yourself and struggle with what it means in solitude.
Kristin:​ Right and how much pressure that puts on you and how – exactly.
Jenny:​ And how it can manifest in overcompensation that’s repulsive.
Kristin:​ Exactly. And it’s – we’re going to give the credit, of course, of how
this is lined up with being gay and holding that in. But there’s also
something to be said about the fact that so much of what we see with toxic
masculinity is a repression of things that men feel they cannot express
because of what the world tells them, right? So it’s not just with Larry and
Larry not being able to say he’s gay. It’s also with a lot of the guys in high
school who do keep knocking books out of people’s hands –
Jenny:​ Right.
Kristin:​ That’s certainly not to excuse them for that behavior, but it is a
really interesting thing I think to look at where that comes from.
Jenny:​ Mmhmm.
Kristin:​ And you’re right, this is really ahead of the curve in terms of
television tropes and stuff to see something like this, I think. To see it in
such a balanced way, it’s just so fucking balanced! They just do a really


sensitive job with it overall and I love that. Then Xander starts to take
another shitty turn here, right? ‘Cause he’s getting upset about Willow with
Oz like the same way that he was upset about Angel and Buffy.
Jenny:​ Yeah, yeah.
Kristin:​ Like well, Angel’s an animal or Angel’s a monster and now he’s
saying the same thing, and he starts to kind of spiral and then…
Jenny:​ Willow’s not safe.
Kristin:​ Right. But he doesn’t mean that –
Jenny:​ But he’s also saying “I want control.”
Kristin:​ Yes.
Jenny:​ Because he says, “If it was up to me…”
Kristin:​ “If it was up to me.” And then there’s a ​beautiful​ edit. Again, we
rarely talk about the edits, but this is a beautiful edit. Because he says “If it
were up to me” and then the scene changes to focus on Willow –
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ And then you hear Buffy say, “Xander, it’s not up to you.” It’s just
so – I got the chills just saying it.
Jenny:​ Mmhmm.
Kristin:​ Because it’s such a powerful moment for Buffy, putting Xander in
his place. And the way that it’s framed, it feels like – and we’ll see, we’ll be
paying close attention to Xander as we always do. But we’ll see how it
affects Xander. But it just felt like the way it was framed, it felt like maybe it
landed, you know?
Jenny:​ Mmhmm.
Kristin:​ That maybe it actually landed with Xander, that he was kind of out


of bounds and he needed to kind of –
Jenny:​ Rein it in, bro!
Kristin:​ Rein it in, figure your shit out, man. Enough is enough. And that is
what I think Buffy said in a very loving way, which I found to be very
powerful.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ And then there we go with, “I’d still if you’d still,” Willow says.
Jenny:​ “I’d very still.”
Kristin:​ [sweetly] I know.
Jenny:​ It’s really sweet.
Kristin:​ Oz has to have the best lines of the series in terms of –
Jenny:​ And also one of the worst.
Kristin:​ Ugh, I know, right? [laughs]
Jenny:​ It’s coming!
Kristin:​ But overall, the character of Oz, he just has these great – if you
were to say, hey, who has some great 90s lines? It’s like, Oz, all Oz, all the
time.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ “I’d very still.” So then – and there’s this beautiful cut where Willow
leaves the shot and then arcs back around to come into the shot from a
different angle to kiss Oz. And it’s this sweet kiss. It’s just like this quick
little… [Jenny happily sighs] Ugh, it’s just so sweet. And we’re there, we’re
ready for the credits to roll, to feel great and instead…
Jenny:​ Yeah [laughs].


Kristin:​ Instead – [laughing]
Jenny:​ The rug gets yanked out from under us.
Kristin:​ [high-pitched] Instead of the credits rolling, Oz basically in my mind
–
Jenny:​ Winks into the camera [laughing].
Kristin:​ Yes, exactly. Looks right into the camera and says, [suavely] “A
werewolf in love.”
Jenny:​ It’s like some fucking Looney Tunes heart-shaped cutout should
zoom in –
Kristin:​ Yes!
Jenny:​ From outside of the frame and like close the scene.
Kristin:​ Yes. And that might have been – that likely was the intentionality
anyway, you know? Maybe they just didn’t take it far enough.
Jenny:​ Ugh, it’s so goofy.
Kristin:​ But really funny. Yeah, and great episode!
Jenny:​ Great episode.
Kristin:​ Just such a – this was a long episode for us, for “Phases”. I did not
think we were going to talk that long, I kind of forgot about some of the
other plot points in this until we did the rewatch but just a really wonderful
episode overall.
Jenny:​ Mmhmm. A plus plus plus.
Kristin:​ So yeah. Thanks for listening with us.
Jenny:​ Yeah thank you. Well, I’m Jenny Owen Youngs and when I’m not


watching Buffy, I am writing and recording songs. You can learn more about
me at jennyowenyoungs.com/buffering and you can give me a shout on
Twitter at @jennyowenyoungs.
Kristin:​ And I am Kristin Russo, you can find me on Twitter at
@kristinnoeline [she spells it out]. You can also learn more about my work
with LGBTQ young people and their families over at kristinnoeline.com or
you can go check out Everyone is Gay or My Kid is Gay, both online for your
use.
Jenny:​ Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on Twitter and Facebook at
@bufferingcast and you can shoot us an email at
bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin:​ There are a couple of ways to support us. One new way to support
us: we are now available on Stitcher Premium. Stitcher Premium is an
awesome platform for podcasts, they have a ton of great shows. All of the
shows you normally listen to on Stitcher plus bonus episodes, comedy
albums, original programing, and tons of other premium content. You can go
over there now and support us by using the link stitcherpremium.com/buffy.
With the code ‘Buffy’, you will get $5 off your first year and a free month. So
for $30 – technically $29.99, you save even an extra penny – $29.99 you
get a ad-free experience with our show as well as all the other shows on that
platform for the year. So that’s exciting stuff and we will likely in the coming
months have some bonus content that will be happening on Stitcher
Premium as well.
If you don’t know, you can also support our work on Patreon. Patreon is an
awesome place where you get fun rewards for your support. You can pledge
at the $1, $5, or $10 level. At the $5 level, you get the mp3s of the songs
that we write the week that we write them. So that’s fun because you don’t
have to wait until the end of the season to purchase them. You get them
right in your inbox. We also do Buffy watches and we have a secret little
Facebook group going over there which is just so active, everyone is talking
to each other in that little secret group. I love it so much. Somebody was
like “Here’s the deal. My partner is going to watch three episodes and I need
to know which three.” And then everybody gave their opinions, it’s a whole
thing. So it’s a fun space and you can find that over at
patreon.com/bufferingcast.


And you can also go on over to our store if you want something physical to
wrap around your body and remind you of our podcast [Jenny laughs] and
Buffy all the time. You can find our store at bufferingthevampireslayer.com.
Just click on ‘Shop’ and you will find ‘Smash the Demon Lizard Patriarchy’
t-shirts and this just in, our tank tops are back in stock. They are pretty
awesome and ‘tis the season, if you are in a place that experiences hot
weather now [laughs]. And if not, stock up for when you get hot weather.
Jenny:​ Mmhmm.
Kristin:​ And don’t forget, if you are a Patreon supporter at the $10, you get
20% off all of our merchandise all the time plus the satisfaction of being the
best person in the whole universe.
Jenny:​ A lofty title indeed.
Kristin:​ Mmhmm.
Jenny:​ Guess that does it. That’s everything we have to say. Until next
time…
Jenny and Kristin:​ Awoooooooooooo!
Kristin:​ Or maybe we should say [singing] Awoooooooooo! [Jenny laughs]
[Jenny performing “Phases” off the album “Songs from Season 2” by
Buffering the Vampire Slayer]
Ah there’s a werewolf down on Lover’s Lane
Ah there’s a werewolf hiding in the evergreens
Ah there’s a werewolf walkin’ on hind feet
But even a werewolf’s better than misogyny
Larry grabbed me inappropriately so you know he had to get thrown
It’s enough to make a girl wanna go
Awoo, awoo, awoo
Awoo, awoo, awoo


Oz is the werewolf much to his surprise
Oz is the werewolf and he hopes that no one dies
Oz is the werewolf mainly cause the moon is full
but even a werewolf is more respectable (than)
Cain who’s such an asshole and he’s lucky that I have a moral code
It’s enough to make a girl wanna go
Awoo, awoo, awoo
Awoo, awoo, awoo
Awoo, awoo, awoo

