Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 4.09: Something Blue
Kristin:​ Today’s episode is brought to you by ​registering to vote.​ ​US-based
Scoobies, many of you live in states where the deadline to register is today, and
other states have upcoming deadlines as well. Please, ensure you are registered to
vote. Even if you think you are, check again. We need all of the Scooby power we
can get in the upcoming midterms, and we know that you all are going to be right
alongside us as we just. Keep. Fighting. We even made a short link for you:
bit.ly/buffyvotes will bring you to a list of all of the states, their deadlines, and the
links to get yourself registered. That’s bit.ly/buffyvotes.
Jenny:​ Today’s episode is brought to you by Krave. Made with tender, gourmet
cuts of beef, and elevated yet simple, all-natural ingredients, Krave jerky is a great
source of protein that’s low in fat and gluten-free. Not to mention, the range of
flavors is bold, and imaginative, [whispering for emphasis] and delicious. Lately I’ve
been snacking on the black cherry barbecue pork and the chili lime beef and they
are… ​so​ tasty. You could even try a flavor to keep the bloodsuckers away, like garlic
chili pepper beef Krave. Just go to kravejerky.com and get 20% off when you use
the code ‘Buffy’.
Kristin:​ Today’s episode is also brought to you by Nations Photo Lab. Nations Photo
Lab creates all kinds of fun items from your photos, including buzz books — their
new, soft-covered photobook. Relive the memories you don’t want to forget: that
first patrol in the cemetery, that time you sent your boyfriend to a hell dimension,
and of course, that time you got engaged to a vampire named Spike! All you have
to do is fill the pages with your favorite photos; it’s that easy to make something
super memorable. Make every moment matter; head to
nationsphotolab.com/buzzbooks and use the code ‘Buffy’ for your free buzz book.
[chime sound]
[Clip from episode plays]
Buffy:​ [tearfully happy] Giles! You’ll never believe what’s happened!
Jenny:​ Oh, hey! Uh… I won’t believe what’s happened, either! [Kristin laughs]
Kristin:​ Hi, Jenny.
Jenny:​ Hey, Kristin! Um, here we are, in the intro — or the pre-intro — the printro,
if you will. Uhhh… we have, of course, some things to tell you, before we get into
this ​fabulous episode.


Kristin:​ Oh, boy, what an ​episode!
Jenny:​ Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It’s so good. But first, do you know what else is good?
Oh my god. Do you know, like, the real reason that I pushed so hard for us to start
making a ​Buffy​ podcast?
Kristin:​ Oh, I know why, and it’s—it’s come to fruition. It’s come to fruition, Jenny.
Jenny: ​Truly! Truly, truly. My… my most passionate dream, of one day, uh, making
socks as merch has finally come true. [Kristin laughs] Uh, we have available our
first Buffering the Vampire Slayer socks. I don’t know what kind of person ​you​ are,
but ​I​ am a sock person. I love them, and I am so excited that we finally have these
cool socks, featuring, uh, the little hand gripping the stake in front of the moon,
and the cemetery scape, from our logo, they look ​so​ cool, they’re up in our shop
right now—
Kristin:​ Yes, Christine Tuna just— That, that logo just has more and more life in it,
every day. Now on our feet.
Jenny:​ So beautiful.
Kristin:​ And Jenny, have you received the socks yet? Because I’ve received the
socks.
Jenny:​ Um, I ​did​ receive a package of socks, and I am ​so​ excited about them. Oh
my god. They look amazing. I’m so happy.
Kristin:​ They really do, and they’re really soft! They’re really soft. And I will say: I
washed them, and they didn’t get any ink anywhere, so you can feel safe washing
your socks with whatever you do your wash with. So there you have it.
Jenny:​ Amazing.
Kristin:​ Another couple of things in the store: of course, just a reminder that we
have our very first vinyl, a seven inch, with Jenny’s version of ‘I Will Remember
You’ from Buffy’s perspective, and Ben Thornwell playing the part of Angel for
Angel’s perspective from ‘I Will Remember You’. That vinyl is up for preorder now,
so, get on over there and scoop one up. And! [singing] ​We have a new shirt, we
have a new shirt, we have a new shirt, we have a new shirt—
Jenny:​ [laughing] It’s ​pretty​ exciting.


Kristin:​ [still singing] —​I think it might be my fav-or-ite shirt! J​ enny. It. ​Rules!
[Jenny laughs] It is. So cool. It’s— what would you call this kind of shirt? It’s like
a— It’s in Sunnydale colors, so it’s maroon and gold, but it’s like a—
Jenny:​ It’s like a— It’s like a football jersey.
Kristin:​ Like a football jersey shirt, and on the front it says “Buffy Forever” and it
like, looks like iron-on letters, real cool, and on the back— Jenny, you tell them
what’s on the back.
Jenny:​ On the back, of course, your last name is displayed clearly as “Summers”,
and your number, which is “01” because you are… the Chosen One.
Kristin:​ [delighted laugh] Oh, we’re really excited about it. I mean, between the
socks, and the shirt, and the vinyl, I mean, who needs other ideas for holiday gifts?
Is ​my​ question.
Jenny:​ Yeah. Yeah, yeah. A lot of exciting things going on. In the shop.
Kristin: ​And you find all that, of course, at BufferingTheVampireSlayer.com — just
click on ‘Shop’!
Jenny:​ In other thrilling news: we. Will. Be. Doing a ​Buffy-​ watch of ‘Huuuuuush’.
Of ‘Hush’. [Kristin laughs] On Sunday! October 14th at 2PM PST. This is open to all
of our patrons, so if you are a supporter of ours on Patreon, uh, you can get all the
details there, and if you are not yet a supporter but you’d like to get in on that, you
can find everything you need to know by just going to
BufferingTheVampireSlayer.com and clicking on Patreon.
Kristin:​ Yes, we will also be doing a Q&A video for our $10 patrons, so get those
new questions into us when you can; there’s a whole thread over on Patreon. And a
reminder, since we’ve been talking about how excited we are about all of our
t-shirts and vinyls and ​socks:​ if you’re a $10 patron or higher, you get 20% off our
merchandise all the time, so, good thing to know, for you.
Jenny:​ Totally. [pause] Wow. In other, very different news, just a reminder, oh my
gosh, we’re gonna be at the Vampire Ball ​in London​ November 30th-December 2nd.
It’s a massive ​Buffy​ con: James Marsters, Juliet Landau, Julie Benz, uh, Mark
Metcalf, a whole slew of amazing cast members; it’s gonna be incredible. We will be
there, high-fiving you, uh, and having a blast. So if you are going to that event — if
you are anywhere near London — come on out; it’s gonna be amazing.


Kristin:​ Yes! And, uh, otherwise, we are also going to Podcon, which is in Seattle —
that’s January 19th and 20th. You can find out more of course at podcon.com —
and we will be there in ​such​ good company, so many other incredible podcasters. I
think we’ve already mentioned that the hosts of Still Buffering will be there, which
we’re really excited about, because that’s… quite a crossover waiting to happen, if
you ask us. And we have like— Hrishi is gonna be there—
Jenny:​ Hurray!
Kristin:​ I know! ​So​ many of our pals, and people that we’re not pals with yet but
will obviously become pals with once we arrive are gonna be there, and we hope
that you are there, too! Okay, Jenny, so are you ready to talk about Buffy and
Spike getting engaged, or what?
Jenny:​ I am so happy for them. This is, like, such an exciting time.
Kristin:​ Oh, I can’t wait to see what they register for.
Jenny: ​[Cackles] I feel like they’re gonna register for, uh, a set of four ‘Kiss the
Librarian’ mugs—
Kristin:​ Oooooooh.
Jenny:​ —because I think, after living with Giles, that’s all Spike’s gonna want to
drink blood out of.
Kristin:​ Yeah, maybe some like, glass straws, so he can be like, super fancy.
Jenny: ​Oh, yes. Yes. Wow, okay. Well. Let’s definitely get into that discussion, right
now.
[Theme song plays]
Jenny:​ Hello ​and​ welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast where we are
watching every episode of ​Buffy the Vampire Slayer,​ one at a time, spoiler-free. I
am Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin:​ And I am Kristin Russo, and this week we are talking about season four,
episode nine, ‘Something Blue’. Stay tuned at the end of this podcast every week
for an original song, written by us, recapping the ​Buffy​ episode that we are
discussing.


Jenny:​ Yeeeees! Something Blue was written by Tracy Forbes and directed by Nick
Mark, and originally aired on November 30th, 1999.
Kristin:​ [teasingly] Just eight days after Jenny turned— [laughs]
Jenny:​ Heeey now! Thank you.
Kristin: ​I just wanna keep it going, you know?
Jenny:​ Yeah yeah yeah! [Kristin laughs]
Kristin:​ This is the one, according to IMDB, where “one of Willow’s spells causes
her statements to become reality, with consequences both entertaining and
life-threatening”. [laughs]
Jenny:​ But mostly entertaining.
Kristin:​ Yeah, I just like that it like, it self-acknowledges itself as entertaining, you
know?
Jenny:​ Right, yeah yeah yeah yeah.
Kristin:​ Like whoever wrote that was like, “Boy, isn’t it funny when Buffy and Spike
get married!”
Jenny:​ Yes. Well, they only get engaged.
Kristin:​ Oh, right, right, right, right, right. They’re ​planning ​their wedding. And,
uh… this is… we’re in like a little… streak, of season four episodes, I think, that are
phenomenal. We just did ‘I Will Remember You’, which is in the ​Angel-​ verse, but
which is just a gut-wrenching episode. Then we’re onto ‘Something Blue’, and
next— I believe we go to ‘Hush’; is that what’s next?
Jenny:​ Uh huh! That’s right.
Kristin:​ Um, yeah, so like, just, you know, and then like not soon thereafter is, uh,
‘A New Man’, I think is the name of an episode that— [Jenny wordlessly shouts] It’s
just— There’s like—
Jenny:​ Yeah, there’s a lot of good stuff, all in a cluster.


Kristin:​ So I’m really excited. Also, I realized how excited I was to be back in ​Buffy
because, Jenny, the last time we talked about an episode of ​Buffy​, it was ‘Pangs’,
and that was at the end of August, and now here we are at the start of—
Jenny: ​Oof, a lifetime ago.
Kristin:​ I know, the leaves are ch— I mean, the leaves are changing in ​some​ areas
of the country [they laugh]. The leaves are changing, it is no longer the heat of
August, and when the “Previously on…” started, I was just like, “Oh my god!
Remember? Remember all of my friends?” Like I, I just— [Jenny laughs] I’m so
happy to be back. We got this scene where Spike is, uh, impotent, or, uh, flaccid,
or the many, uh, words that are used in this episode to describe his inability to
attack, uh, human— harm a human, ​and​ we get this flashback of Oz… ​leaving,​
which, you know, not knowing what’s going to happen in the episode, like, “Okay,
so why are we— Is Oz gonna like, gonna come back? What’s gonna happen?”
Jenny:​ Yeah. Well, ​first​ we’re just gonna get a good sniff of his t-shirt.
Kristin:​ Awww. This is... ​so sad.​
Jenny:​ This is sad. A hard to watch this scene.
Kristin:​ And doesn’t it feel like this scene is set up to let us know that like, Willow’s
been doing this since ‘Wild at Heart’? Like, that like—
Jenny:​ Yeah, it feels like she’s been doing this on the daily.
Kristin:​ Right, especially when then she goes back again. Like, it’s— Willow has
appeared to apparently everyone but Spike, which I want to talk about, but Willow
has appeared to everyone to sort of be like, slowly mending, but in actuality she’s
been living in a reality where for her it’s not over. She’s like visiting—
Jenny:​ She’s just waiting for Oz to come back.
Kristin:​ Yeah, and visiting his room, and smelling his shirt, and [groans] ​Willow,​
it’s very, very, very sad. Also, where is Oz’s room? Like, is this— Is he in a dorm by
himself? Like, he doesn’t have a roommate?
Jenny:​ No, I think he lives in a house the way that like, Riley and the Initiative
guys live in a house.
Kristin:​ Ohhh, okay, okay. All of the—


Jenny:​ A many-bedroomed house.
Kristin:​ All of the men live in houses and all of the women live in dorms because of
the patriarchy?
Jenny:​ Well, I think Oz lives like with his band? It might be like, off-campus. And
then, uh, Riley and those guys are older.
Kristin:​ [laughs] Right, they’re sophomores, so much older.
Jenny:​ No, I think Riley is… is... Riley’s a TA, I think he’s older than a sophomore.
Kristin:​ Ohhh, you think he’s a little bit closer to 243?
Jenny:​ [laughs] A little bit closer. [Kristin laughs] Just slightly.
Kristin:​ Okay so it’s a house, so his room is just— That makes more sense, I
guess, because she did say, like— Later she says Devon sent for his stuff, um—
Jenny: ​Exactly.
Kristin:​ Or he sent— Devon tells her that he sent for his stuff. So, that makes
sense. Okay. Thank you for clarifying; I was just like, “Where ​is​ this? Where are we
right now?”
Jenny:​ Here to help.
Kristin:​ My next— [starts laughing] My next note, Jenny, is capital “hahaha”s for
like seven paragraphs, because this is one of my favorite little mini-scenes in all of
the entire season, and I remember watching it the first time, uhhhhh, where Riley
is assisting [Jenny laughs] the Lesbian Alliance of UC Sunnydale in hanging up their
sign and I have a ​lot​ to say about this. Okay?
Jenny:​ Okay. What do you have to say about it?
Kristin:​ First of all, the lesbians of UC Sunnydale are all femmes all the time. All of
them are long-haired, all of them are ​giggling​ with Riley— Like, I’m very confused
about the lesbian demographic at UC Sunnydale.
Jenny:​ Aaaaas a lesbian… [Kristin laughs] As a queer lady, I would just like to say
that if ​I​ had the opportunity to giggle with Riley, I’d be doing it.


Kristin:​ [cackles] Fine, but— I added in the Riley thing, but my main— My main
point was that, visually speaking, these are all femme-presenting lesbians, so I
thought, “Hmmmm,” you know? Hmmmm. Like, who— Who made this call for all
the long-haired lesbians?
Jenny:​ Yep, yep.
Kristin:​ And I ​also​ wanna know where my utility lesbians are at, here? Like, what
kind of fucking ​lesbian alliance​ is like, “Excuse me, cis dude, can you hang this sign
for us, teehee?” Bullshit. I call bull. Shit.
Jenny:​ Hmmmmmm.
Kristin:​ Those lesbians would be finding one of their own to hang that goddamn
sign, so— [laughs]
Jenny:​ May… maybe. Maybe so—
Kristin:​ [incredulous] Are you—
Jenny: ​Maybe there’s a whole other campus group of— Maybe there are multiple
sects of, uh, various campus groups.
Kristin: ​[jokingly] Division within queer community? What possibly could you be
speaking of, Jennifer?
Jenny: ​[chuckle] Less division and more subdivision. It’s like—[laughs] It’s like
how, apparently, the secret Buffering Facebook group has a bajillion subgroups?
Kristin:​ Yes, splinter groups. Mhm, mhm. Subgroups.
Jenny:​ Right? Just like atoms… splitting… and splitting again, and splitting again.
Kristin:​ ​I​ think you are being defensive because you are excited that Riley is
helping and you know, as a queer woman, that ​you​ would want Riley to help you
hang the sign, and I’m here for that. Like, I am a queer woman and I have long
hair. I am a queer woman and I would probably get someone to help me hang a
fucking sign. But I’m just ​saying​, that like generally—
Jenny:​ Utility lesbian erasure is real in this episode of ​Buffy the Vampire Slayer.​
Kristin:​ Yes, as is masculine-presenting— You know what I mean? Just give me a
little bit of—give me a little bit of reality here. I know it’s ’99, but I’m ​pretty​ sure


that lesbians looked many ways, [laughing] and also hung their own signs in 1999,
is all I’m saying. That’s all I’m saying!
Jenny:​ Yes. Yes, yes.
Kristin:​ Um, their meeting is December 18th, which is the day after my birthday,
just so everyone knows—
Jenny:​ Oh—
Kristin:​ Sooo—
Jenny:​ —my god.
Kristin:​ —when I go to the Lesbian Alliance meeting at UC Sunnydale, we’ll have
like, cupcakes for my birthday, it’ll be really fun. [giggles]
Jenny:​ Wow, you will have just turned 19.
Kristin:​ [laughs] Yup! Yup. And—and luckily for me, I will be out, so I will actually
be at this meeting.
Jenny:​ Yeeeeeeeees! Yes yes yes.
Kristin:​ So let’s pivot from queer to really, really, really, uh, cishet Riley here, who
is now flirting—
Jenny:​ I thought you were gonna say, “Let’s pivot from queer to like, really gay”
because he wants to go on like a ​picnic​? [Kristin cackles] Is that—is that too far?
Kristin:​ Well, I—no, no, I’m here for that. But I, I really… Okay. You know, you all
know how I feel about Riley… in general, but Riley has some good moments in this
episode, for me, a critic. One comes in this exchange with Buffy where he’s like— I
mean, at ​first​ I’m rolling my eyes because he’s like, “You’re such a mystery.” He
calls her a puzzle like, 47 times in this fucking episode. [laughs]
Jenny:​ Yeah. Yeah, yeah. He’s like, you’re just like a Rubix Cube, [Kristin laughs] I
wanna twist your midsection one way, and then twist your lower body another way,
and then twist your— And then, then line all the color panes of your various…
facets, like… [Kristin laughs] I’m sorry, I lost it, but you know what I was saying.
Kristin:​ No, no, I was there with you; I paused silently so we could see where you
were gonna go with your Rubix Cube metaphor. [laughs]


Jenny:​ [laughs] Nowhere good, apparently.
Kristin:​ He stops himself, though, and he’s like, “You know, probably every
beautiful girl has some jerk telling her she’s a mystery,” and I thought, “Well this is
a—”
Jenny:​ [shouts] ​True!
Kristin:​ And he— listen, I know some dudes, a lot of dudes… Actually I don’t know
any dudes, but I— [laughs] No, I know some dudes who would say this as a line,
right? Like, “I’m sure ​everybody​ says [unintelligible mocking noises]”. But like,
the—Riley was believable, to me, in this moment. That he like recognized the like,
“Oh, I might seem like an asshole right now, like, telling this girl that she’s like ​a
mystery​”, so, um, I liked it. Points for Riley from Kristin, which is rare. It’ll happen
every so often.
Jenny:​ Okay. Here are my points. This is actually— You know how ​I​ feel about
Riley, and… I feel like the Riley/Buffy thing in this episode is like, the lowest dip
that it’s had, for me, up to this point. I ​do​ like him hanging a Lesbian Alliance
banne, and then telling Buffy that he’s a lesbian.
Kristin:​ [laughs] Yes! Oh my god, I skipped over that, we cannot— [both laugh]
Jenny:​ Oh, I ​love​ that.
Kristin:​ [still giggling] Can we actually just play the sound clip of Riley saying that
he’s a lesbian?
Jenny:​ Please.
[Clip from episode plays]
Riley:​ Oh. [laughs] Yes. I am a lesbian.
Jenny:​ ​Nice. [​ Kristin laughs] Welcome, Riley. So… um, I— Like, that stuff didn’t
work for me; I was just like [skeptical noises] mystery… puzzling out… Like, it’s just
all, like… 25% more Iowan than it needs to be, for me, personally.
Kristin:​ Yeah, I mean… This, this—
Jenny:​ [laughs] I ​do​ like when he compares her to an oral exam — double
entendre much?


Kristin:​ [laughs] Wow.
Jenny:​ Yeah. [pause] Also, ​how​ can he fucking look at her, with a straight face,
and tell her that she’s beautiful, when her hair looks like that?
Kristin:​ ​I​ am ​here​ for Buffy’s crimped hair, I’m ​sorry.
Jenny:​ Her hair looks ​so bad​. Her hair looks ​epically​ bad in this scene. And I won’t
hear any different.
Kristin: ​[laughing] I mean, it is—it goes through many faces of crimp-ed-ness,
um… but, I—
Jenny:​ This is the ​worst​ phase, particularly in this episode, and this moment,
within this episode, is ​peak​ bad.
Kristin:​ This is— But you know what? Jenny, you and I are not, uh… We don’t have
credentials to properly discuss Buffy’s crimped hair, but you know, someone who I
have missed so much in recent weeks, who ​does​ have those credentials ​is​ here with
us, so—
Jenny:​ [gasps] Some kind of ​professional​??
Kristin:​ Some kind of person who, you know, really knows a lot about hair, and
fashion.
Jenny:​ [bigger gasp] Wow!
Kristin:​ [laughs] So, without further ado, because we’ve all missed you so much,
let’s hear from Kate Leth.
[Fashion Watch intro theme plays]
It’s time for our friend Kate
To give you the Buffy fashion update!
Kate:​ Welcome back to ​Buffy​ Fashion Watch, and it has been a ​minute,​ hasn’t it?
We come back in on ‘Something Blue’, which is — and I know I say this a lot, but —
one of my favorite episodes. I love it for so many reasons, but… primarily, above
all, more than anything else… is Buffy’s crimped hair. She has so many different
hairstyles throughout the series and so many of them are ​so​ cute, but oh my god.
This crimped look. I… am pretty sure it only shows up in this season. It is
highlighted in this episode more than in any other; it is worn in so many styles, in
so many degrees of, uh… [skeptical] goodness? But, ​I​ love it. I am a personal fan of


crimped hair in the mid-to-late 2010s, so, at this point in time? Yeah, it’s perfect.
It’s absolutely perfect.
Honestly, on rewatching this episode, I was surprised at how many fashion
highlights there were. Willow gets so many outfits because it takes place over so
many days, and she is just absolutely ​rocking​ that particular point in time. She’s
got all the peasant tops, she’s got all those… sheer… chest… tied… frilly… ​things​,
whatever they were. They weren’t sweaters, they weren’t shirts, they were just…
there, and they’re perfect for her. Her hair’s a little flat, but we get it; she’s
grieving. She’s going through a terrible time. Side note: the fact that everyone in
this episode is all like, “Oh my god, Willow, get over it” when it literally ​just
happened is… very out of character? I get that it needs to happen for the plot, but,
you know, [skeptical sound] whatever.
But really: Buffy’s outfit when she’s having the picnic is ​super​ cute — her little
shawl is adorable, all those bell sleeves and her [delighted] ​poncho​ in the beginning
of the episode? It’s very cute. Everyone’s pretty on point. Even Xander? I mean,
hey, I’m a sucker for a baseball tee, but he looks cute. Anya’s hair is not at its best,
but we know it’s going to get there. And it’s not ​bad​, plus her shirt is adorable.
And we get to see casual Giles, and I ​love​ casual Giles. Plus this episode has the
scene of Buffy feeding Spike blood through a straw in a mug that I own, which is
great. All in all, this is just a really fun episode. Everybody looks great, everybody’s
having a good time, even when they are having a terrible time. We get to see
D'Hoffryn, it’s just… it’s awesome. And until this world does the right thing and
starts making peasant tops popular again, I’ll see you at the mall.
[Fashion Watch outro theme plays]
That was our friend Kate
She gave you the Buffy fashion update!
Jenny:​ Welcome back, Kate Leth! Long have we missed you.
Kristin: ​Oh! So good!
Jenny: ​Thank you for educating us.
Kristin:​ So good to hear your voice, the dulcet sounds of Kate Leth’s voice—
Jenny: ​Mmmmmm


Kristin:​ —we’ve all missed it so, so much, so thank you, thank you for telling us
about crimped hair, thank you for telling us about wedding dresses, we’re gonna
get to that ourselves very soon—
Jenny:​ Of course, of course, of course
Kristin:​ But first: to your point about this being too Iowan, this scene ends with
Riley saying [mock suggestively] “Don’t ya just love a picnic?” [laughs]
Jenny:​ [laughs]
Kristin:​ [laughing] Soooo…
Jenny:​ So he’s working backwards.
Kristin:​ [high-pitched laughing] I know! But it’s like so—
Jenny:​ It’s like ​soooo​ goony, it’s so ridiculous
Kristin:​ It really is, I laughed out loud at that ending line.
Jenny:​ So like… cut to…
Kristin:​ Cut to the cemetery.
Jenny:​ Yeah, Buffy’s like talking it through with Willow and she’s like, “Mmm, his
arms are good arms”, and I’m like, “​I… hear… you!​”
Kristin:​ Yeah, yeah, we all hear you — Riley’s got good arms, I mean there’s no
denying the facts of the matter. Riley’s got good arms…
Jenny:​ ​Right b
​ ut she’s, you know, she’s like, “Mmmm, he’s so… ​nice​ and… ​normal
and… where’s the ​pain a
​ nd… I have to get away—” Here, here’s something! She’s
like, “I have to get away from the ‘bad boy’ thing”. Has anybody ever looked at
Angel and been like, “What a ​baaaad​ boy!​”
[both laugh hysterically]
Jenny: ​That is not—
Kristin:​ [simultaneously] I mean…


Jenny:​ Angel is many things, and he has a darkness within him, but he is not what
anybody would call a [seductively] ​bad boy​.
Kristin:​ I’m sure there’s some Giles/Angel fanfic in which Giles calls Angel a bad
boy but I mean, I digress.
Jenny:​ [disgustedly] Ooh! Ahhh! Blehlelelele!
Kristin:​ [laughs] Uh, you’re correct, but Angel is dark and broody and is, you
know, her one true pairing that will never be, so he fits into the category of dudes
who are not good for her but she cannot, you know, bear to be apart from.
Jenny:​ Right, right, right, right, right.
Kristin:​ Um, I think Willow does a great job here of calling it out, right? Of being
like, “Oh there’s fucking nothing wrong with him so that doesn’t work for you,
Buff?”
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ And they have this whole exchange which I wanted to talk to you about
because this is something that I have had exchanges with, like, in talking to
friends, giving friends advice, I’ve thought about it, like, with my own self — you all
know I’m a big Spike fan... But they have this whole exchange, Buffy’s basically
like, “Can a nice, safe relationship have fire?” Right? Like, have that ​passion​, as
Angel would put it.
Jenny: ​Haaaa!
Kristin:​ You know, does— Real love has to— Like, she says, “Real love has to go
hand-in-hand with fighting”, like, you know— “Why do I feel like real love has to go
hand-in-hand with fighting? Can there be this calm, nice, thing that also has the fire
with it?” And I am 37 years old, Jenny, and I still don’t have the answer to that
question, and it’s something that I think about all the time, like, what is ​good​ in
terms of a relationship? What is ‘safe’ and— Not ‘safe’, but like, you know what I
mean, what is… ‘safe’ like Riley-‘safe’, like, this nice guy who, blah blah blah…
Jenny:​ Right, right — who seems steady, reliable, normal…
Kristin:​ Right. But it feels like then, and I’m speaking as myself but also this is
basically what Buffy says, it feels like something’s missing, and she says, “I don’t
know why I would feel like that” as the then, of course, slays a vampire, which is
like a [joke punchline drum noise] moment, right?


Jenny:​ Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin:​ But I don’t know, what are your thoughts?
Jenny:​ Ok, first of all I wanna say I’m not ​necessarily​ rooting for Riley! I’m just
here as the devil’s advocate for Riley Finn in general because I feel like he gets
dumped on way, way, way,​ ​way,​ way​ more than is, like, proportionate to, like, how
offensive he is as a human being and a boyfriend—
Kristin:​ Right, no, I know but, but you’re into him being a nice guy and so I
thought maybe that would connect to some of your—
Jenny:​ Yeah, well, does it… Is it— Is the idea of Buffy dating Riley as exciting as
the idea of Buffy dating Angel? Did you ​see​ ‘I Will Remember You’? Come on!
Kristin:​ Right, right!
Jenny:​ Who knows though? Like, I mean, I think maybe… Different relationships
with different people offer different things, right? And like, maybe the best thing ​for
Buffy at this moment, is… Like, after her relationship with Angel, maybe the best
thing is for her to like, bounce over to the other end of the spectrum. I think one
relationship can hold multitudes. I think that fire and passion can coexist with
warmth and security, that’s what I believe.
Kristin:​ Something else I wanna talk about is in this scene is a little
heart-wrenching nugget that happens where Buffy says to Willow, “Seeing Angel in
LA was painful, even for those five minutes” — and we’re all like, [gasps abruptly].
Jenny:​ [laughs] It wasn’t five minutes, girl!
Kristin:​ It wasn’t! There was a ​temporal fold​, Buff! There was a temporal fold!
Jenny:​ It was twenty-four hours and five minutes!
Kristin:​ You licked mint chocolate fudge cookie dough ... whatever, ice cream off of
his pecs! Oh, you’ll never know…
Jenny:​ Off of his ​bare chest​.
Kristin:​ You’ll never know! Anyway then we get to the credits.


Jenny:​ Yes, and is it just me or did they edit out Oz’s face from the ​end​ portion
where they’re like [mimics ending drum roll]
Kristin:​ [intrigued] Ooohhh… I don’t know!
Jenny:​ And there’s two quick cuts of them when they’re on their way to fight the
Judge at the mall, and I’m pretty sure, in earlier episodes, you used to be able to
see Oz’s face [Kristin gasps] very clearly and I think they changed the cut there so
it’s, so it’s snips from the same moment of them walking down the hallway, but you
don’t see Oz, I think.
Kristin:​ Oh my gosh, whaaat? Ok listeners, that’s on you, send us a—
Jenny:​ Yeah I’m sure somebody out there already knows, please confirm or deny,
thank you.
Kristin:​ Yeah, please let us know, ​bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com​, thank
you ​so much.​
Jenny:​ [laughs]
Kristin:​ So, Spike is in the bathtub…
Jenny: ​Hell yes!
Kristin:​ I have in my—
Jenny: ​We have entered the beautiful era of Spike in the bathtub.
Kristin:​ [laughing] Yes! I have: “Yes! Spike is in the bathtub! Yes! ‘Kiss the
librarian’ mug!” — like, now we’re gettin’ into it, season four! You know, the images
that come to our minds when we think of season four, ​I​ think, is Spike in the
bathtub, Spike tied up in rope, Spike with the fucking ‘Kiss the librarian’ mug and
the straw of blood… So here we are, we’ve arrived. Now a question I had for you,
Jenny, is do you think Olivia gave Giles the ‘Kiss the librarian’ mug?
Jenny: ​[gasps] ​Oh my god! Yeesss!
Kristin:​ [laughs] Ok, great, great, great, so we’re just gonna insert— That’s now
canon, people, listeners, Scoobies.
Jenny:​ Yes, a gift from Olivia.


Kristin:​ A gift from Olivia, that’s where that fucking mug came from.
Jenny:​ Wow, I ​love​ that, I can’t believe I didn’t fucking think of that. I ​was​ thinking
like, “Where did this mug come from?” You know what version of reality I like is the
version where like, Giles was in a trinket shop and he saw that and like, sort of
giggled to himself [Kristin laughs] and then bought it. [laughs]
Kristin:​ [still laughing] I had to laugh off mic for that ’cause it got real loud.
Jenny:​ Yeah, can you ima— Can you just picture him, being like—
Kristin:​ Oh my god, yes! I can, I can. You know, maybe he like, when he went on
his Halloween rampage and he was just like, “Oh, I should get this” and, “Oh, I
should get this!” — do you think he was also there and he was just like, in the best
mood of his life?
Jenny:​ Oh, my god… Wait, his Halloween rampage when he bought his unfortunate
hat and poncho?
Kristin:​ Yes, but also the like, Frankenstein that hung and made noise that he
could make little—
Jenny:​ Oh yes!
Kristin:​ You know… yeah.
Jenny: ​I’m trying to figure out why a Halloween shop would have a ‘Kiss the
librarian’ mug but maybe it’s just part of the librarian— the ​sexy​ librarian costume.
Kristin:​ Right right. [laughs]
Jenny:​ Oh my god, maybe Giles was like, “I’ll either go as this ​or ​a sexy librarian.
Like unbutton my black button-down that I wore over to Joyce’s one time, I’ll just
undo a couple of the buttons…”
Kristin​: Ok…
Jenny:​ “Hold this mug, throw some tweed over my shoulder…”
Kristin:​ Alright, you’re getting everybody— This is turning into—
Jenny:​ Getting everybody riled up for Daddy?


Kristin: ​Yeah, you’re really starting to read your like, erotic novel out loud,
everybody in their cars is like, fanning themselves—
Jenny: “​Daddy, could you direct me to the card catalogue, please?”
Kristin:​ [laughs] Alright, Jenny. Actually this is the perfect way to turn this corner
because we go from Jenny telling us about sexy Giles, to Giles making fun of Spike
for being impotent, or, as Buffy says, “flaccid”. This is an ongoing joke.
Jenny:​ I could do without all of this personally…
Kristin: ​I, yeah, I think it holds up because, you know, feeding is sort of like, sexy
and whatever but who knows, maybe there’s problems there, I don’t know.
Regardless! So Spike is being a fucking pain in the ass, right? He’s like, not giving
them the information that they need, he’s complaining because he wants to watch
the telly, and—
Jenny: ​Yeah, but he looks great doing it.
Kristin:​ He does! He does, I mean, he’s having a great time being a pain in the
ass, I mean, that is kinda the definition of Spike: he has a great time being a pain
in the ass. And Buffy then is , like, sort of challenging him and wanting to make​ him
uncomfortable and ​him​ upset, so she does this m
​ ove​ where she like, tilts her bare
neck to the side, and she’s like, “Look at my ​bare neck​… Oh, the veins are just
pulsing​ with my blood...” And Giles, like, her dad is ​right there.​ This is
uncomfortable for everyone.
Jenny:​ [laughing] Yeah it’s ​so gross…
Kristin:​ And Giles is like, visibly uncomfortable, rolls his fucking eyes and leaves
the room — he’s just like​ so​ over the two of them.
Jenny:​ Yeah, and then while he’s out in the living room, Willow’s all like, “What
about a truth spell?” and he’s like, “Tight, pick up the ingredients, please, and meet
me back here tomorrow,” and she’s like, “You got it, boss” — and then she leaves.
Giles comes back in the bathroom and is like, “Mmmm, Willow had a good idea.
Guess she’s not as emotionally damaged as she used to be,” and Buffy’s like,
“Yeah, I think she’s getting better” — and Spike, of course, Spike — always the
highest emotional IQ—
Kristin: ​Yeah.


Jenny:​ —in the room on this show. Spike is like, ”Are you people idiots?” [Kristin
laughs] “She’s very clearly hanging on by a thread.”
Kristin:​ Right, Spike is… Why do you think it is that Spike is ​so​… I mean Spike and
Willow, like, def—
Jenny:​ I think he’s just a more— I think he’s more sensitive than anybody gives
him credit for because he’s always busy hiding behind his like, black fingernails and
his like, bleach blonde hair and his big leather duster and he’s all like [mockingly]
“I’m tough” ​— but then on the inside he’s all…
Kristin:​ [affectionately] … ​gooeyyy!
Jenny:​ … soft. Remember how in love he was with Drusilla?
Kristin:​ I ​do,​ I do… [excitedly] Ooh, we’re gonna get to talk about Drusilla just in a
little bit!
Jenny:​ I think too, without saying anything in particular, I think we’re gonna see,
when we learn more about Spike’s beginnings, I think we’ll see where some of
this… you know, him being more ​attuned​ to other people’s emotions and him being
sensitive to other people is like, kind of leftover from his human times.
Kristin:​ [mock intrigue] Oh​… ​ooh​…. ​whatever might you be speaking of, Jennifer?
[both laugh]. So, we take a hard corner here from Spike saying the truth into us
then seeing the stripped raw naked truth.
Jenny:​ Ah!
Kristin:​ This is—
Jenny:​ Speaking of hanging on by a thread.
Kristin:​ This is ​horrible a
​ nd this is like… This is the moment that I’m sure all of us
have had, some of us ​many times​, where you end a relationship and you’ve lived
with the person that you’re in a relationship with, and it’s ​over​ and you know it’s
over, but ​then​ you empty the home. And then you’re like— Like that viceral thing,
it’s just like— I remember, like, my last ex of five years, I remember living on the
upper east side with her and I remember when the apartment was empty. And it’s
just gut— Like, I think as humans there’s like, this visual link, you know, like, you
know you’ve been feeling it, you know that it’s this and you know that it’s that but
like, when your ​home​ is still ​together,​ it’s still together. And so like, then once that


visual thing is broken, it like, signals to your body, like: trauma. This is like, now
trauma has set in, and that’s exactly what Willow is going through in this moment.
Jenny: ​A hundred percent. Especially if you’re like, you know— Willow and Oz
weren’t living together but she was spending a lot of time at his place, and like, the
place that you spend all of your time with the person you’re with, takes on like—
It’s almost like another sort of character in your relationship, or it’s the context for
your relationship.
Kristin:​ Yeah, a hundred percent — ​and​ we know that Willow has been holding on
to​ the relationship by visiting this space so it’s, for ​her,​ it’s even ​more​ than these
things we’re talking about, it is like— She kind of is having, like— The character of
Oz is gone but the character of this space they shared was ​still there.​ So this is like
a loss on the initial loss, and it’s, for her, and we’ll see this now, this is like the final
door closing, and she—
Jenny:​ Totally.
Kristin:​ —of course was devastated before, but this is a whole ’nother level of
devastation for her. So, we cut right to, of course— [sadly] Ugh! The Willow-crying
it’s just so much, you know? It’s just really a lot [Jenny sighs] and she says, “I feel
like I’ve been split down the center and half of me is lost”, and—
Jenny:​ [sympathetically] Willowwww!
Kristin:​ [guttural sob noise] Like, I mean, come on… And Buffy in this moment— I
just wanna like generally say, I really wish that Buffy was doing a better job
supporting Willow. I ​don’t​ think that Buffy does a good job in this episode, there’s a
couple of moments in specific, which I will talk about when we get there, but, in
this moment, Buffy’s trying to say she’s lived through this, she’s lived through
feeling like half of her is gone — ’cause it was, she sent that half to hell, as a
matter of fact. And she, you know, and so she knows this pain, and she is— Also I
think what is cool about Buffy is that she recognises that it ​is​ the same pain; that
just because she’s the Slayer and her boyfriend was a vampire, and she had to
send him to hell — it’s the fucking same pain. That Oz got in his van and left, and
that Willow is in it, and so she— she’s trying to tell Willow, “It feels like that ​now​”,
right? That’s ​now,​ but you just like— And later she says to her, “You have to move
through it”, and Willow just answers, “Oz is gone”. And that’s when we know like,
that’s what this is to her, like, he wasn’t gone before; he’s gone now.
Jenny: ​Noooooo…


Kristin:​ It’s real sad. Um… then we cut to an establishing shot, which I thought you
would enjoy, Jenny, because the establishing shot to let us know we’re at Giles’ is
his car.
Jenny:​ Oh, it’s his car! His car’s out front.
Kristin:​ [laughing] Yeah…
Jenny:​ Piece of shit.
Kristin:​ [still laughing] Yes, which is really funny. Also—
Jenny:​ I missed it, I’m glad they got that out of storage for this episode. [giggles]
Kristin:​ [laughs] Yeah, uh something else they got out of storage for this episode
is the green mug, which we see on the counter while Giles is talking on the phone.
Jenny:​ ​Awoooga!
Kristin:​ Yes—
Jenny:​ Wait! Wait, I have to jump back now and say that like, I think that maybe if
Olivia gave Giles that mug, he wouldn’t be feeding Spike out of it.
Kristin:​ Oohh… you’re right and you know what—
Jenny:​ And that lends strength to my theory of [laughing ]he just saw it and
bought it for himself.
Kristin:​ That’s true and you know what? Honest to god, you know what mug
fucking Olivia bought him is probably the god damned green mug. Like, Olivia is
like the classiest bitch around, you know what I mean?
Jenny:​ Yeah, she’s a classy lady.
Kristin: ​[simultaneously] She’s like— They’re always like drinking whiskey and…
yeah, exactly.
Jenny:​ Yep yep yep, she’s like hanging out in his shirt… Classic.
Kristin:​ [laughs]


Jenny:​ Uhh, but that was then and this is now… and uh, Spike needs to see
Passions​, Timmy’s down a bloody well.
Kristin: ​So I looked into this because I remember ​Passions​. I didn't watch
Passions​, but my sister was like ​ob-sessed​ with ​Passions​ and I was like, “Timmy, I
remember the character of Timmy.” And so I just want to like insert here a little,
little nineties… trivia? Is it trivia? It's not trivia. It's actually really sad, but it's also
really bizarre. So Timmy, um, Timmy Lennox is the character's name from
Passions​, which was a— In case you don't know, ​Passions​ was like a soap opera,
but it was like a… I don't know, I guess it was just a soap opera, but it was very
popular with younger people, whereas like ​Days of our Lives​ and stuff was not as
on the, on the map, you know? I don't know why it's… Talk amongst yourselves
about that. But anyway, ​Passions​ had this whole storyline where this woman had
this doll, and the doll became… a real boy and the real boy was Timmy.
Um, something really bizarre and sad is that Timmy, the character of Timmy, was
played by an actor named Josh Ryan Evans, and in this crazy, like, ironic and
horrible twist of fate, that actor, um, died of a congenital heart defect the day his
character died on the sh— Like the day that that episode aired—
Jenny:​ Oh…
Kristin: ​—is the day that the actor—
Jenny:​ … my…
Kristin: ​Isn't that fucking spooky and crazy and weird?
Jenny: ​That's fucking wild.
Kristin: ​So I wanted to just say that because that was not what I was looking for,
but I found it and was like, “​What?!”​ And also I, I couldn't — and I might just have
missed it, I didn't do, like, a deep dive on this — but I couldn't find anything about
that character Timmy being down a well. But Timmy being down a well is like—
Jenny: ​— is a Lassie thing, right?
Kristin: ​Exactly. And it's like a thing that is used, like it's like a tro—, almost like a
trope of like, “Timmy’s down the well again”, you know, from Lassie. And so I don't
know if that was… you know what I mean? Like I don't, I don't know if that was
intentional. I don't know if there's a plotline in ​Passions​ where Timmy was down a
well or if it's Spike like, tongue in cheek, like, wanting to watch ​Passions​ and then
like, also making fun of, you know… I don't know! I don't know. So I would love to


hear your thoughts, uh, listeners, on like, what the structure of that line was
intended for. Probably it's something really obvious that I just haven't thought of.
[laughs]
Jenny:​ Maybe it's like they can't, like, reference specific plot points of somebody
else's intellectual property? Is that…?
Kristin: ​[doubtfully] Hmmm…
Jenny: ​That's boring. Anyway. [both laugh] Okay, so the reason that Giles can't
get into the bathroom right away and turn the telly on, uh, ​Passions​ for Spike is
because he's busy leaving a voicemail for Willow, who didn't show up as they had
planned to do the truth spell.
Kristin: ​Very unlike our Willow, but we know why, um, we know what she's going
through. Sooo, goody goody for us—
Jenny:​ [groans]
Kristin: ​—we have arrived at the picnic — ​how fun​ — and Riley is going to—
Jenny: ​So this is the lowest, lowest point for them, as far as I'm concerned, up to
this point. It's supposed to, I think, be hot? And he's all like, [faux sexy voice]
“Yeah, you just like, roll the windows down and let it wash over you and, like, let it
all go. And I'm—” Like, it's almost shocking that he wasn't like, [faux sexy voice
again] “Hug the curves”, you know?
Kristin: ​Yeeeah. Yeah, also he has a line, and like, I know that contextually it's not
at all this, but he says, like, “It's just— Like, you don't like driving because you just
haven't had a good experience yet.” And like, as a qu—
Jenny:​ Ewwww.
Kristin: ​As a queer woman, I was just like, “Uh-uh. Not. Here. For. It.” And
obviously, like, that's a ​totally​ different thing of like, a dude being like, “You just
haven't tried the right guy yet.” And Buffy is a straight, straight woman for all of
our— I mean [laughs], probably, I mean I just remembered Faith so I don't know if
we can call her straight but—
Jenny:​ Mhm!,
fKristin: ​But​, you know, he's, he's saying, like, “All those other guys weren't me.


All those other drives weren't the kind of drive we would take in ​my car​” — and
like… [slight groan]
Jenny: ​[skeptically] Weeell…
Kristin: ​I know, I know, it's a stretch, and so I'm not going to play my jingle. I'm
not going to play my jingle.
Jenny: ​Oh, ok.
Kristin: ​He didn't, he didn't get me that upset, but it just bothered me—
Jenny: ​Also, I mean, he's not wrong. Like, you can have the same category of
experience with, with two different people and have it be very, very different.
Kristin: ​Right. Totally, totally, a hundred— And you know, he doesn't know
[laughing] Buffy’s history yet.
Jenny: ​My main complaint is that this just isn't hot and it should be.
Kristin: ​[laughing] Ok. Your complaint has been filed. This is actually… I have a big
complaint to file with Buffy in this scene. Okay, so they're having their fucking
picnic and I get it, like, she likes Riley, whatever: her friend just fucking lear— her
best​ friend just learned that her ex-boyfriend has moved all of his stuff away, and
she has no idea where, and he is ​gone,​ and she is devastated and Buffy knows
she's devastated, and Willow comes over to the fucking blanket and is like, [sadly]
“Hi, the apples are turning brown, like they do.” [laughing] And like just so—
Jenny: ​Jesus, lady!
Kristin: ​She's so sad. And ​Riley​— And this is why I didn't play the jingle for Riley
because ​Riley​ is like, there for it, you know? Riley's like, “You know what? Sit down”
— like, this girl's not okay, “take a seat”. And Buffy is just kinda like, “Well, this is
weird, isn't it?” It's like, “Get over yourself, Buffy!”
Jenny: ​And this isn't the first time that we've seen Riley like, go out of his way to
like, take care of Willow—
Kristin: ​Yeah.
Jenny: ​—in the wake of her break-up with Oz.


Kristin: ​I'm going to go out on a limb here and say I think at this point, Riley has
been a better friend to Willow than Buffy, and I…
Jenny:​ [laughing] I think you’re right!
Kristin: ​[laughs] I just need Buffy to get, get it together and support her best
friend.
Jenny: ​Yeah, this is just like not how— This is not how Buffy functions in
friendship. She's not what you think of when you think of a good friend. That's just
like not who Buffy is!
Kristin:​ No, it's not. Sigh! So, we cut to the Bronze, and we get a great song
placement — they probably paid a pretty penny for this Blink 182 song. [sings] All
the… small things… Dah dah… Dah dah… I like literally— I played it for myself, like
the whole song, ’cause I got so excited. I loved Blink—
Jenny: ​Reeeally…
Kristin: ​I ​loved​ Blink 182! I loved them so much.
[BLINK 182 “All The Small Things” plays]
All the small things,
Truth care, truth brings
Kristin:​ And—
Jenny:​ Anya just reminding us here that she used to be a vengeance demon. You
know, saying, “Oh I wish I had my powers back, I'd liquefy his entrails for her.”
Kristin: ​[laughs] Yeah, thanks for that, Anya.
Jenny: ​Right. But don't worry — Willow’s dancing up a storm. But do worry,
because she's… [skeptically] apparently really drunk on light beer.
Kristin: ​This is funny to me and like, we've kind of experienced it already with
‘Beer Bad’, and like, just in general because they don't drink, um, in college, but I
just feel like— And not to say that like everyone drinks in college, but a lot of
people drink in college. And I think it's really odd that… I mean, I know they have
to do this because it's a television show and like young people are watching it and
they can't just like, have people drinking under age and like, have that be okay or
whatever.


But it's just funny to me because like… Willow's having ​a​ beer; Willow is standing
up and dancing. She's being a little mean, but like… she's been through heartbreak
and the, like— Xander and Buffy’s response to her is like she, she, like, is
developing a problem. And it's like, [laughing] “Guys!”
Jenny: ​Yeah, it's like very extreme. But also, I think tonally that's kind of like, in
line with the approach at the time on like, you know, major network television.
Kristin: ​Yeah, right. Right, I just want to make sure everyone knows that in the
’90s, in college, we definitely drank beer.
Jenny: ​We were drunk! We were so drunk.
Kristin: ​[laughing] At least, Jenny and I were.
Jenny: ​Um… [laughing] yeah. Then — mm! — you know when you're just like,
[dramatic voice] in college and you're like, trying new things for the first time and
you like, also just experienced a great heartbreak. The only way you could possibly
[Kristin laughs] deal with that is by embracing the classic co-ed activity of rolling
out of your bed in the middle of the night, gathering your supplies, traipsing down
the hall to your bathroom that you share with like, the 30 other people on your
hall—
Kristin: ​Yeah!
Jenny:​ —setting up a nice, big candle circle and praying that you won't get
interrupted while you're all like, “Goddess Hecate! Mleh-mleh-mleh-mleh!”
Kristin: ​[guffaws] Yeah, I mean, also, like, the book made me laugh so hard ’cause
it's just a giant book that says—
Jenny: ​Oh — ‘Witchcraft’?
Kristin:​ [laughing] —’Witchcraft’ on the front.
Jenny: ​I want you to know that I'm, I, when I said, “Witchcraft”, I pivoted my, my
shoulders, so that one was leading and one was behind me.
Kristin: ​Oh, okay, [laughing] thank you for that visual.
Jenny:​ Let me just say it again so you can picture me doing that while I say it.
Kristin: ​Okay.


Jenny: ​Witchcraft.
Kristin: ​[laughing] Yeahhh, there it is, Jenny.
Jenny:​ Did you feel it?
Kristin: ​I did. I really did. [laughs] Um, also— Right, I'm glad you talked about the
shared​ bathroom. It's like, this really happened — if this actually happened — if
Willow got up at 3.30 in the morning, pulled out her ‘Witchcraft’ book, set up all her
candles — if no one had walked in while she was setting up that circle, some bitch
would have stumbled in drunk, with a toothbrush, when those candles erupted in
flame, and would've been like—
Jenny: ​A hundred percent.
Kristin: ​—“What. In. The Fuuuck.” You know? Like… come on.
Jenny: ​A hundred percent. Also, like, after the flames blaze up and then, like,
things get really blown out, and there's like a bunch of quick cuts and then they
like, [getting more and more high-pitched] zoom in on Willow's face really fast…
[Kristin laughs] It's um… It’s, uh, those kinds of high production values that make
Buffy​ a show that really stands up today, 20 years later. Hmm.
Kristin: ​Yeah. My, my note, my last note in this scene in all caps was, “Cool fire!”
[both laugh] Uh, so Giles is, um, expanding his family here. He's branching out on
his fatherly duties and he is checking up on Willow. And this is like—
Jenny: ​Aww!
Kristin: ​This— Right, it's really sweet, but it struck me too, like I had a moment of
being like— Because, because he comes in and he's like, “Listen, you like, shirked
on your responsibilities.” And at first I was like, “This is nice that he's checking in
on Willow.” And then the second thought I had is, “What responsibilities?” Like,
Willow isn't the Slayer! And like I understand they have like this established thing,
but it just occurred to me that like, we've all gotten real comfortable with each
other now and, and our roles, like it is ​so rooted​ that Willow is the witch of the
group that… she's part of it, she has just the same kind of responsibility that Buffy
has, where if she doesn't show up, Giles is going to come to her door and be like,
“Um, excuse me, young lady, [laughs] but you haven't participated in this family
that we have and you— you know, I want to know why.” Um…


Jenny: ​Yeah, I don't, I don't know. What do you think? Do you think that's weird? I
mean…
Kristin: ​Uh… I— I went back and forth with it. At first I was like, “Hmm, I don't
think I like this,” and then I was like, “No, you know, I think I do.” Like, I think that
it's been four years that they've been together and working together, and they
have roles and like, there's expectations now based on their history. So like, I am
here — I think that Willow wants to be held to those expectations; I don't think that
they're being, like, placed upon her in any way, I think she really wants that. So I
feel good about it, but it just… struck me, you know?
Jenny: ​Yeah, well I think when you like have a chosen family, um, you have to —
aside from just figuring out, like, what that means, like what that is shaped like —
you also have like… the possibility of, um, assigning or stepping into various roles,
uh, where everybody's kind of like figuring out… what they are in this larger context
of like, Giles, and Buffy, and Xander, and Willow and now like other— you know,
formerly Oz and, uh—
Kristin:​ —now Anya.
Jenny: ​—Anya now, mm-hmm.
Kristin​: Mm-hmm, yeah.
Jenny: ​And now Spike.
Kristin: ​[laughing] And now— Honestly, now Spike! Listen, Spike’s in, man.
[laughs] Um, so, and, and they have this— Giles and Willow have this pretty
intense fight. I think it is probably one of the more intense fights that they've
gotten into, where Willow's had it and she says like, “You know, everybody cares
but nobody wants to be inconvenienced.” And ​I​ think that Willow is upset with
Buffy. Like, I, like— And she should be, because—
Jenny: ​Right?
Kristin: ​—because Buffy was fucking inconvenienced by her and it was really
fucking not okay. And I know I already got upset about it once, but I'm very upset
about it. And I think Giles has just sort of like, stepped in and is taking the place of
Buffy for Willow because like, Giles hasn't done anything wrong and Willow knows
that, but she's lashing out at him because she's so hurt by the fact that she doesn't
feel like her best friend has her back! And she gets so fired up, in fact, that when
she says to Giles, “You can't see anything”, Giles—


Jenny: ​He immediately starts losing his vision.
Kristin: ​And oddly. Like, I'm sorry, but if you were in a room with somebody who
you were pretty close with, and suddenly you just couldn't see anything? Like his
response is very bizarre—
Jenny: ​Wouldn’t you be like, “Whoa, something just happened.”
Kristin: ​[laughing] Yeah. But he's like, “I'm going to actually go right now. I'm
going to leave.” And then he like, stumbles down the hall, like, bumps into some
kid, um, and heads home without being able to see very well. And with him, it's a
gradual thing, um, because later he says like, “I'm completely blind” — like, “Now I
can't see anything.” So we know that for him it was just like, at first it was just
foggy, and it, and it increases over time.
Jenny: ​Right, right. So even though Giles is, uh, having some vision difficulties,
he's not gonna let that stop him from at least trying to do the truth spell on Spike
by himself, but he can't even like get through the whole spell ’cause he can't make
out every single word. Meanwhile, Spike somehow gets the handcuff key that's just
laying on the floor? Don’t know if we saw it fly there or not, but he snags it, he
unhooks himself and he runs to the door — [laughing] grabs his leather jacket, of
course! — and then exits. Like I love that he just like couldn't, couldn't possibly
leave it there.
Kristin: ​No, of course not. What is Spike without his leather jacket? Come on. Uh,
right. So, then we get this like, beautiful cutaway scene, uh, beautiful little side
scene where we’re back in the dorm room. Spike has escaped but Buffy doesn't
know yet, and Buffy and Willow are in the room, and Willow is like, “You know, I
just don't ​know​, I did this ​thing​ and like, I just don't even have my p
​ owers
anymore.” And we see [stifling laughter] Amy on the bed, and Amy's a rat, and
Willow is basically like, “It's just like, Amy had so many powers. Like it's like, first
she was a real girl” — and like, ​poof​, all of a sudden, we see Amy who's ​finally​ not
a rat — and then in her next breath—
Jenny: ​What’s up, Amy!
Kristin: ​[laughing] Yeah — hey, Amy! And in her next breath, she's like, “And then
poof​, she was a rat” — and then ​blam,​ she's a rat again. No one ever saw it except
for us, um, that Amy had one brief moment of being a human again, uh, which is
really funny. And also, Amy's hair color is different, um, so I dunno if the rat got
like a dye job or like, what—
Jenny: ​Right, sure, [laughing] very possible.


Kristin: ​[laughing] Whether the rat had some time to go to the salon, I guess, at
some point.
Jenny: ​Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Um, I've got a, I've got an issue which is
that there is no way that a, uh, UC campus allows pets.
Kristin: ​Yeah, but you know what else there's no way? There's no way that any
students listen to any rules ever. So… you know?
Jenny:​ Alright. Alright.
Kristin: ​I had, I had a girl write in to me once when I gave advice on Everyone Is
Gay, and she wanted to know if she should buy a dove for her girlfriend. They had
been dating—
Jenny: ​[laughing] Oh right…
Kristin:​ They had been dating for one month, uh, and she wanted to know if she
should get a dove for their one-month anniversary.
Jenny: ​Well, the traditional one-month gift ​is…
​ dove.
Kristin: ​[laughs] And part of the question was— But you know, like, part of the
struggle was not like, “Well, I've only been with her for a month, maybe I shouldn't
get her ​a​ ​dove”​ — that wasn't the question. The question was, “But my dorm—
Like, her dorm doesn't allow pets, but like I still think maybe I should get it.” And
so I was like, “Girl, maybe you shouldn't get a fucking dove ’cause you've been
together for 30 days. How about that?” [laughs]
Jenny: ​Also birds are just like…
Kristin: ​Yeah.
Jenny:​ I've long maintained that birds are the creepiest, um, division of animals
that we still like, generally think of as like, cute, or whatever.
Kristin:​ Aren't they— Like aren't they like, the closest to dinosaurs or something?
Wouldn't— You would know.
Jenny:​ Which I'm into, yes, but, but look at their scaly feet and their beady little
eyes and there's are the dinosaur Lilly unknowable, uh, allegiances and motives.
I'm sure that we're going to get like 75 emails that are like actually my silky


chicken and I have a very meaningful bond and here's how it took care of me when
I was sick and I'm sure that like, please prove me wrong. I want to know about it.
But birds just seem difficult to connect with.
Kristin:​ Okay.
Jenny:​ In my view. And also they're loud and squawky. They're bad, bad dorm
pets if you're trying to keep it on the low, I guess is the least of what I could say.
Kristin:​ Yes. So please go with a rat, especially a rat that used to be a human
witch.
[ad music plays]
Kristin:​ Today’s episode is brought to you by PrettyLitter. That’s right, kitty litter is
helping to bring you vampire commentary. Many a queer woman’s Venn diagram
dream. If you’ve ever thought about getting a cat but can’t get past the gross
litterbox, you should really check out PrettyLitter. It’s a cat litter 2.0. It comes
shipped right to your door in a small, lightweight bag that lasts the whole month,
which means no inconvenient trips to the pet store or cramming oversized bags of
litter into your closet. PrettyLitter has next-level odor protection. Instead of using
clay or compost that clumps and is impossible to clean up, PrettyLitter has
super-absorbent crystals that trap and conceal odor and moisture. No smell, no
mess. But the coolest thing about PrettyLitter is that it monitors your cat’s health.
PrettyLitter changes colors to detect underlying illnesses before urgent medical care
is needed, saving you money, stress and potentially your cat’s life. I’ve had cats my
whole life and I think many of you know our current child, Sam. Sam loves
PrettyLitter, although she is embarrassed that we’re talking about it on air. The
thing we love most about it is the convenience, honestly. Not having to remember
to go and grab more litter for her is a plus and it gives us more time to tend to her
many needs. Being petted, being brushed, being petted again, playing with her
mouse, playing some more with her mouse...you get it. Try PrettyLitter today by
visiting prettylitter.com and use promo code “Buffy” for 20% off your first order.
That’s prettylitter.com, promo code “Buffy” for 20% off.
Jenny:​ Today’s episode is also brought to you by HelloFresh. As your family is
getting back into the swing of balancing school schedules, late-night cemetery
patrols and making constant supply runs to the magic shop, let HelloFresh take the
guesswork out of meals week after week. With three plans to choose from, Classic,
Veggie and Family, HelloFresh’s meal kits make dinner easy, even amidst the
after-school and after-slay chaos. No more having to plan, spend money on takeout
or worry about gathering ingredients week after week. Not to mention, the
easy-to-follow recipes and pre-measured ingredients are all delivered right to your


door in recyclable, insulated packaging. Which comes in handy on those hectic
school nights when your to-do list is a mile long or you’re busy chauffeuring the
kids to the on-campus wicca group. There’s even a one-pot recipe, for maximum
flavor with minimal clean-up. Especially practical if you’re, say, throwing a
HelloFresh Thanksgiving dinner at your Watcher’s house, so you can get back that
time to do more of what you love. Kristin and I are huge fans of HelloFresh, it’s
really fun to get wildcarded with a dinner that you might not necessarily think of
making for yourself and it’s so convenient to get the delivery and have everything
you need ready to go. It really can take the stress out of cooking for yourself. For a
total of $60 off, that’s $20 off your first three boxes, visit
hellofresh.com/buffering60 and enter code “Buffering60”. It’s like receiving six
meals free when you go to hellofresh.com/buffering60 and enter code
“Buffering60”.
Kristin:​ Today’s episode is also brought to you by Away. Away offers high-quality
luggage that is designed to be resilient, resourceful and essential to the way you
travel. Available in a variety of colors and four sizes, including carry-on sizes that
are compliant with all major US airlines, the Away suitcase is lightweight and made
with premium German polycarbonate, that’s unrivaled in strength and
impact-resistance. Not to mention, it has TSA-approved combination lock, four
360-degree spinner wheels and a patent-pending compression system to help
over-packers. Hi, I feel seen, I’m an over-packer! Better yet, both sizes of the
carry-on are able to charge anything that’s powered by a USB cord. A single charge
and the suitcase powers your iPhone five times over. Ok, honestly I have two Away
suitcases now because I had the first one for speaking about Away suitcases, I got
the little carry-on, and I was so obsessed with it that I bought the larger size Away.
I love them! The wheels are incredible, I say that as someone who is often in cities,
rolling around my suitcases. They’re super sturdy, the suitcase moves well, it holds
a ton of stuff and the charging in the carry-on is really, really, really killer, for me
especially, because I’m always on my phone, which— We can talk about that some
other day. Anyhow, for $20 off an Away suitcase, you can visit
awaytravel.com/buffy. Just use promo code “Buffy” during your checkout. That’s
awaytravel.com/buffy and use promo code “Buffy”, you’ll get $20 off your Away
suitcase and you will probably thank me later.
[episode resumes]
Kristin:​ So then Willow is like, “Yo, so Spike, you know, he's like…” and Buffy's like
“I have to go” and she's not nice about it. She's not fucking nice about it. She's
like, “Willow, you fucking got to understand this. It's like duty calls.” Like, fuck you,
Buffy, be nice!
Jenny:​ Just be warm!


Kristin:​ Right. Be like compassionate in any fucking manner. And instead she's
like, you know, “I'm gonna go.” And so Willow was like, “Oh, he's probably just
standing out there.” And so then poof, Spike is just standing in the middle of the
field, right when Buffy gets out there, which is hilarious. And they're both like,
“Huh, that's funny.” And then they like sort of, Spike’s like, “But I think this is
where the initiative door was,” but it's not and he can't find it. And then they get in
this fight, which is really funny because Spike manages to punch Buffy, but it hurts
him way more than it hurts Buffy. And then Buffy punches him right on the heels of
him basically punching himself. So just very, very funny.
Jenny:​ [laughing] Yeah. Then she marches him back to Giles’ house.
Kristin:​ Oh yes. Here we go.
Jenny:​ And yeah. And at the same time Willow's having a conversation with Xander
about how frustrated she is that that Buffy abandoned her to go get Spike. And uh,
of course, this naturally leads to what you say about anybody who's spending time
with somebody else when they should be spending time with you. “Why don't they
just get married?”
Kristin:​ Yeah, the classic Pee-wee Herman line.
Jenny:​ Yeah!
Kristin:​ Uh, I also want you to—
Jenny:​ And this is when shit really starts to get good.
Kristin:​ Yeah. This is— Exactly! And before we get to the brilliance of this episode,
I just want to say I do appreciate the line of Buffy saying, “Oh I got the stones.”
Cause Spike is basically like, “You don't have the stones to hurt me.” And she's like,
“Oh I got the stones. I got a whole bunch of stones.” So, with this wish, with this
intention, Giles comes out and Spike and Buffy have become engaged. They are
just smitten with each other.
[clip from episode plays]
Buffy:​ It's just so sudden. I don't know what to say.
Spike:​ Just say yes. Make me the happiest man on earth.
Buffy:​ Oh Spike of course it’s yes.


Kristin:​ And—
Jenny:​ [laughs]
Kristin:​ Oh my god. And also Giles immediately pours a drink. Like, immediately.
Like he can't see anything and he knows this is happening and he's like, “Fuck this
shit.” He goes immediately to his whiskey bottle and uncorks it and it's just like “I
fucking cannot with these children and these vampires and my life. I'm, I just, it's
too much.”
Jenny:​ God!
Kristin:​ There is a scene. So whatever, Giles calls Willow cause he's like, “What the
fuck is going on?” And in the meantime, Willow has also told Xander that he's a
demon magnet, which will happen later. Implications. And then we get this scene.
There's a lot of scenes, but this scene in particular, so, so Spike and Buffy are like
intertwined. They're just like all tangled.
Jenny:​ It’s a lot!
Kristin:​ Spike says to Buffy:
[clips from episode plays]
Spike:​ “Oh, pouty. Look at that lip, gonna get it! Gonne get it!
Buffy:​ [coquettishly] Stop.
Giles:​ Yes, please stop.
Kristin:​ And like Sarah Michelle Gellar— Like one day I just want to find out how
many times they had to do this scene because it looks like she barely fucking
makes it through the scene without like just hysterically laughing at James
Marsters. And I mean it's just hysterical. And this is the first, right? They've,
they've obviously like never, never had to do a kiss scene, never had to do
anything. So I feel like they went from zero to a hundred with this episode.
Jenny:​ Oh my god, yeah.
Kristin:​ It's just so delightful in so many ways


Jenny:​ So many of the small bits of dialogue and the small like physical decisions
that they make. Like later there's a scene where like, uh, somebody is revealing,
you know, oh, I think Xander is like, “Oh my brain. I know. What is it? What is it?
What is it? And it's while Spike and Buffy are like deeply making out and embracing
each other and then like Spike is like still trying to make out with Buffy and she's
like, “Honey!” She's like, “What is it? Honey, honey, get off me.” Like there are so
many tiny things like that that make it look like they've been, uh, passionately
making out with each other for like, you know, two years.
Kristin:​ Yeah, yeah, exactly. They're like somehow in the throws of passion but
also an old married couple, like all at once. I'm just really—
Jenny:​ Also, that he proposed with his like huge silver skull ring. And Buffy just
wears it for the rest of the episode and like shows it to Giles when she's like,
“Something wonderful has happened.”
Kristin:​ Also— And so Giles, this moment that happens right away with Giles is
hysterical because, and I feel like Giles plays the role of the viewer in this scene
where Buffy is like, you know, “You're my—” she says something that very, it's very
interesting. And she's like, “You are my real family.” Like, she really, and she's, I
mean we, we've been speaking about them as chosen family for a long time, but
like to say “You're my real family,” essentially, “You're my real dad.” Like that's
pretty big.
Jenny:​ Yeah. Yeah.
Kristin:​ And she, and she says to him like, “I want you to be the one to give me
away.” And we all, I think as, as the audience are like, “Aww!” Which is exactly
what Giles does. He's like, “Awww.”
Jenny:​ Exactly, right before he's like, “Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.”
Kristin:​ Right. We like all get caught up in his moment and then we're like, “What
the fuck are we doing? Like this is crazy. This is not even...What?!”
Jenny:​ Yeah. Yeah. Then Buffy drops the A-bomb.
Kristin:​ Yes!
Jenny:​ She says Angel's name and Spike is like, “You weren't going to say that
name.” He gets so dark, so quick.


Kristin:​ He’s like, “Oh, are we going to have the florist Angel would have, and are
we going to do the thing Angel would want to do?” Oh, it's so good.
Jenny:​ Yeah. Yeah.
Kristin:​ Then of course—
Jenny:​ And then Buffy’s like, “Oh, like I don't live under the shadow of Drusilla.
You know, it's really hard for me to believe that you're not going to be thinking
about her on our honeymoon when you're making sweet love to me.” And then
Giles I think wills himself to go completely blind at this point. This is when he loses
his vision all the way.
Kristin:​ Oh God. And then we get this like new caveat, which is that Spike is going
to be helpful because he's marrying Buffy and he wants to help his future
father-in-law, which is nice.
Jenny:​ Oh my god.
Kristin:​ Um, and then cut to, oh my goodness. Now we're on Main Street. Buffy is
walking down the street cause she's going to go get some mugwort or whatever the
fuck for Giles to try to figure out what's going on with Giles’ vision. And she sees a
wedding dress in the window and like a cartoon character being caught away,
carried away by the smoke of the smell of a pie. She, um, she is caught by this
wedding dress and just sort of plasters herself against the window. And who
happens to walk by, I mean the, you know, you can't go walk down the main drag
here in Sunnydale without some hunky dude walking by you. Like it’s either going
to Angel or it's going to be Riley or it's going to be Faith. Who is it going to be? You
know?
Jenny:​ Mmhmm.
Kristin:​ And this time it's Riley and she's like, “Oh Riley, aren't these dresses
beautiful?” And later it seems like Riley reacted in a way where he recognized that
it was a wedding dress and got uncomfortable. But to me, I read it as Riley doesn't
know what a wedding dress is. He was like, “Ah, it’s nice, but it seems fancy for
school.” Like what?
Jenny:​ Yeah. Yeah.
Kristin:​ Um, and then of course, this scene—


Jenny:​ I just want to say this is like, this is the best, well, while I think this is
overall kind of like the worst episode for me watching Buffy and Riley interact, this
scene is like one of my favorites of theirs together so far.
Kristin:​ Yeah, it’s good.
Jenny:​ Yeah. I, yeah, I think they're making some great comedy together. And I
do question that she shows him the skull ring after she's like, “I'm engaged,” and
he's, and he's not like, “Are you sure you're engaged? Cause that's a great big
silver skull ring.”
Kristin:​ Yeah, I think he's just so turned around. He doesn't understand what is up
and what is down because she's—
Jenny:​ Totally.
Kristin:​ —literally out of her mind. He's totally old, not as old as my last boyfriend.
Jenny:​ [laughs] Yeah! You'll really like him. Well nobody really likes him. I don’t
even really like him, but I love him.
Kristin:​ Oh, it’s so good!
Jenny:​ And then when she’s like, “Spike.” And he's like, “That's a name?”
Kristin:​ [laughs] Oh God, if we get to the name shit later, cause that's a whole
thing too. But first we go to Xander's, we're in the basement and now I want to just
say here in our mailbag episode, we talked about the fact that, um, we thought
Xander's mom had made fruit punch because she had a crush on Giles. But now we
learn that Xander's mom just left, like she was just down there with snacks hanging
out with Anya and Xander. So—
Jenny:​ Maybe she also has a crush on Anya. Yeah!
Kristin:​ Oh, excuse me!
Jenny:​ I mean, who wouldn't?
Kristin:​ Wow. Maybe we can work them into our sexual tension award.
Jenny:​ Nice!


Kristin:​ Anya and Xander's mom. Great. Um, but we get a really unfortunate line.
“Just think of my lips as the fruit rollups of love,” says Xander.
Jenny:​ Yeah, I wish I could hear that. That was a pretty big bummer.
Kristin:​ It's pretty bad, but it's also pretty funny, in its horror. Um, I want to say
that I think Anya is a very good kisser. Um, I feel like we see her kiss, like there's
just a scene where they kiss and I mean maybe Emma Caufield is a really good
kisser, is what I mean to say, but, um, I just feel like she gives good kiss in the
scene and I'm like—
Jenny:​ Gives. Good. Kiss.
Kristin:​ —just here for it. Uh, then of course the demon party begins and Anya
hilariously is like, “Xander that's not how you kill this kind of demon.” Obviously
you have to drown this demon. Luckily there's a sink full of water in which they can
drown this demon.
Jenny:​ So weird.
Kristin:​ And um—
Jenny:​ Meanwhile like after that demon drowns, it's not like it turns to dust,
they're just going to have to like lug that human-sized demon body out of Xander's
basement and do something with it later.
Kristin:​ Right. But, well we never see what happens with the dead demon bodies
or if Xander's mom comes back down with fruit roll ups and sees a dead demon in
the same—
Jenny:​ Oh Jesus.
Kristin:​ [laughs] But we cut to a sweet cake topper, walking up the—
Jenny:​ [hums the wedding march]
Kristin:​ And fucking Giles is like, “I can hear the smacking like I can hear, I can—”
Is it worse to see them like for him, for Giles, is it worse to see them making out or
is it worse with what he has, which is he can't see it. He can just hear it.
Jenny:​ I think just hearing it is worse.


Kristin:​ I do too. Um, Buffy suggests putting a little dribble of blood on the boy
cake topper and Spike is like—
Jenny:​ Oh yeah, and she says “Blood of the innocent.” All like sexy.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Both:​ [laughs]
Jenny:​ And they have a brief discussion about like what are the invitations going to
look like? Is it going to be ‘William the Bloody’ or just ‘Spike’.
Kristin:​ And obviously—
Jenny:​ Either way it's going to look weird.
Kristin:​ Obviously the answer here is ‘William the Bloody’. I mean think of a
wedding invitation.
Jenny:​ Totally.
Kristin:​ William the Bloody, I disagree, I think William the Bloody would look
fantastic on a wedding invitation.
Jenny:​ I agree. Mmhmm.
Kristin:​ And then Spike is like, “Don't make fun of, my names, your fucking name
is Buffy.” And has anyone ever discussed it in the series to this point? I don't think
so.
Jenny:​ I feel like there might've been something like really early on in season one
where Buffy says her name to like some powerful vampire maybe. And they’re like,
“Really? ​Really?
​ ”
Kristin:​ Oh maybe. God, but this is hysterical. But, and we learn, first of all, I think
it's, is it Spike who says like, “Oh yeah, Buffy, it's that touch of classic elegance”?
Jenny:​ Oh yeah, that hurts.
Kristin:​ Which is just real good. And then we learn that Joyce is the one who gave
Buffy her name.
Jenny:​ Yeah. How bout that?


Kristin:​ How bout that!
Jenny:​ I wonder if she's named after like Buffy Saint Marie or something.
Kristin:​ Yeah, of course. So Xander and Anya roll up cause they're like, “Mother,
fuck, there's some demons, help!”
Jenny:​ Mmhmm, mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin:​ And they almost immediately learn that, well Giles can't see and also Spike
and Buffy are engaged to be married.
Jenny:​ Oh my God.
Kristin:​ Xander says, “How? What? How?” to which Giles replies, “Three excellent
questions!”
Jenny:​ [laughs] Yeah, and then Xander starts putting it together. He's like, “Oh I
remember these very specific phrases,” which is great. And Buffy is like, “I probably
only escaped because I'm the Slayer and I have natural immunity.”
Kristin:​ [laughs] Yeah. And shout out to Xander, this is like a really good moment
for Xander. I mean really this, he saves the day here cause he's the one who
connects the dots and then helps Giles to start connecting the dots. And in his
conversation as he's connecting the dots, he says something like, Willow has just
been like, “Oh my God.” And Anya gets this great little Anya moment where she's
like, “I don't have to be nice about her anymore.” Like immediately.
Jenny:​ Poor Willow though.
Kristin:​ No, no. For real, for real.
Jenny:​ Poor WIllow for not getting the support she deserves.
Kristin:​ I agree. But I just, you know, it just tickled me.
Jenny:​ Yeah, totally.
Kristin:​ That Anya is here. So speaking of poor Willow. Willow, now this is a touch
of like, ‘Oh, Willow has some power, right?’ Because now not only have we seen
Willow like levitate things and do spells that work like this one and like all this shit,


but now D’Hoffryn has showed up because he wants to make her a fucking demon,
which is pretty major.
Jenny:​ Yeah. D’Hoffryn is recruiting.
Kristin:​ Yeah. “You have much anger and pain.” Like whoa man, you know, he's
like— What does he say to her? Something like, “You've caused—” like, “The pain
you have brought upon your friends shows that you have immense power,” which
you know, Willow doesn't want to be a demon and she says no to this offer or
whatever, but I just feel like put a pin in that because I think it's indicative of the
fact that Willow's power is increasing, and increasing so much that it's been
recognized by a demon maker.
Jenny:​ Hell yeah.
Kristin:​ And we also—
Jenny:​ Hell. Yeah.
Kristin:​ —and tell me if I'm wrong, Jenny. I think we also learn here because did
we, did we know Anya’s history before she was turned into a demon before this
episode? Cause she's like, “I was doing spells, I was like, you know, putting boils on
penises and shit.” Which, here for it, here for it Anya.
Jenny:​ [laughs] Gross.
Kristin:​ Um, but like, but like you know, she's like “I was doing spells that dah dah,
dah and then I was called,” so it sounded like, you know, Anya was, in a similar
bent to Willow was called and said yes to this. Did we know that?
Jenny:​ Yeah. We haven't actually, I don't think seen any of Anya's backstory. So I
think this is the only information we have about her history.
Kristin:​ Cool.
Jenny:​ Up to this point.
Kristin:​ I thought it was cool. I was like, “Oh yeah, fucking Anya was a person
before.” Like I didn't, I don't think I considered that Anya was ever a person. I just
thought that she was like born, I thought she was born like that, born a vengeance
demon.
Jenny:​ Yeah, but vengeance demons are made and not born, apparently.


Kristin:​ Yes, as we learn. So they're on the way to this, to the cemetery. And allJenny:​ [laughs]
Kristin:​ Oh yeah?
Jenny:​ Yeah. Well, you know, a demon pops up and Buffy has just seen a really
nice crypt that she'd love to have wedding photos in front of. It really makes you
realize how Buffy probably spends as much time in cemeteries as like Spike does.
That's just like one more thing they have in common. And when the demon rolls up,
she's like, okay, we're going to do this without destroying any of the foliage
because she is thinking ahead to her wedding photos.
Kristin:​ Oh my God, it's too much. It's truly too much. And she kicks like, she kind
of, she doesn't kill it, but she like kinda knocks it all away and then like a bunch of
other fucking demons arrive and they flee to the crypt. They go inside the crypt.
Anya like draws a circle around herself and is like, “Err, D’Hoffryn. Err, call on thee
err.” She's like, yeah, she can't remember.
Jenny:​ She said that poem or whatever for that new vocation all the time for a
thousand years. She's been human for like a semester and a half.
Kristin:​ I know, but she's just, she lost her. She lost her words. And luckily, I
mean luckily she doesn't need them, D’Hoffryn doesn't need to get summoned
because Willow says, “I do not want this.” Also hot second pause for whoever's on
D’Hoffryn’s AV team, that like helps him out when his fucking like projector that he
rolls out between his fingertips to show her the inside of the crypt.
Jenny:​ [laughs] Ah yes, the metaphysical AV team.
Kristin:​ Yeah, yeah. I just pictured like when that happened, I really had a good
laugh cause I imagined like all these little demons that were like setting up the
cameras in the crypt and then like running back and being like, “Okay, the wires
are connected to the fucking...okay. Yeah, all you have to do man is,” and he's like,
“It's kinda staticky.
Jenny:​ Oh...my God.
Kristin:​ So, shout out to the D’Hoffryn’s AV team. They did a great job. It worked
really well.
Kristin:​ Yeah, yeah, yeah.


Kristin:​ Willow, of course, doesn't want to cause her friends pain. So she says no,
and D’Hoffryn, you know, it's this big build where you think D’Hoffryn is going to be
like [makes angry/disappointed noise] and instead he's like, “Okay, well here's my
talisman. So you know, if you change your mind, give us a chant.”
Jenny:​ Yeah, yeah, yeah. He's a classy civilized dude.
Kristin:​ Yeah, he is.
Jenny:​ All things considered.
Kristin:​ I mean D’Hoffryn has never done us wrong. Right? I mean D’Hoffryn
seems on the side of good for the most part.
Jenny:​ Or at least the side have a good time.
Kristin:​ Yes, exactly. So, Willow is transported back into the crypt where she, you
know, does a spell like only Willow can do, like she's still new, but it seems like no
matter how powerful she gets, she's always like delivering her spells confusedly.
Like she's like—
Jenny:​ Totally!
Kristin:​ And then you say this word and then you say this other word, and then the
words together make the power and like it works. Uh, and the demon disappears in
between Anya and Xander. And we didn't even talk about this, but fucking Spike
and Buffy were helping no one, they were just making out
Jenny:​ They were just making out on the floor!
Kristin:​ On the floor! Which of course like is a set up so that when the spell is
broken, we get the glorious moment of them being—
Jenny:​ Where they’re both just like [makes disgusted spitting noise]
Kristin:​ [laughs] Yes! Um, Buffy says “Spike lips. Lips of Spike,” which is pretty
good and we get a bellowing, “Oh bloody hell!” from William the Bloody.
Jenny:​ [laughs]


Kristin:​ They're both very upset about this make-out that has been happening, uh,
between them. Uh, and then, you know, the wedding is called off. No wedding for
those two, sadly.
Jenny:​ It's such a bummer that they didn't figure out a way to make it—
Kristin:​ Right? I could have used, I could have used more time of watching the two
of them fucking think that they were in love with each other, I'll tell you what!
Jenny:​ Oh my God. Oh my God. Well Willow's got a lot of cookies to bake to work
through her guilt.
Kristin:​ Yes, she does. And she, you know, what she gives us Jenny, she gives us
some hell math.
[HELLMATH jingle plays]
Hellmath!
Kristin:​ The hellmath is that the cookies are, they assuage...as-suage, how do you
say that word?
Jenny:​ Assuage, I think.
Kristin:​ Assuage, that's great. It was one of those words that like I've only read.
Jenny:​ ‘Ass wash’ is basically what you said.
Kristin:​ [laughs heartily] Assuaged, they assuage 30% of her guilt but only 7% of
her inner turmoil.
Jenny:​ Yeah. That is some proper hellmath, isn't it?
Kristin:​ It is. I think it is indeed. I was very excited because we have not used the
hellmath jingle in quite some time. I was actually very disappointed in you, Brittany
and Laura for not playing the hellmath jingle when you did all of your orgasm
math—
Jenny:​ [simultaneously] Orgasm count?
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ Sorry about that!


Kristin:​ Very deserving of a hellmath jingle.
Jenny:​ You know what's heavy on hell and light on the math is that Spike reveals
for all of us that Buffy wanted a particular song for the first dance and the song that
she wanted was ‘Wind beneath my wings’.
Kristin:​ Oh—
Jenny:​ Wind beneath my wings!
Kristin: ​Oh… my God, and she's mortified in a way where you know, Spike is ​not
lying.
Jenny: ​It’s true.
Kristin: ​That it is true. And she's like, “It was the spell. That was the spell.” [both
laugh] And I just feel like, you know… Kathy and Buffy got off on like a really rough
foot and like… But I just feel like, you know, a Celine Dion fan and a lady who
wants to play ‘Wind Beneath My Wings’ at her wedding are not that… distant from
each other.
Jenny: ​Truuuue. True.
Kristin: ​I think they perhaps had more in common than they ever got to find out.
Jenny: ​Wow!
Kristin: ​[laughs] And so of course, in this moment, she also remembers, “Holy shit,
I ran into Riley. I like— Oh my God, how will I ever undo this?” And so, the last
scene in the episode is Buffy going—
Jenny: ​—Buffy just straight up gaslighting Riley.
Kristin: ​Exactly.
Jenny: ​[Valley Girl voice] “You thought I was serious? Oh my God, you’re so silly!”
Kristin: ​And I'm glad that they kind of like call this out for what it is, which is like—
’Cause he's straight up says to Buffy, like, “So you're insane, but you're still—”
Jenny: ​And she’s like, [cute voice] “Uh-huh!”


Kristin: ​Right, “—but you're still single.” And it's like, okay, so… I mean, it's kind of
endearing, I thought it was a little endearing that Riley was like, “Oh my God,
you're out of your fucking mind, but I still really like you, and you're saying that it's
still possible for us?” Like, I thought that was nice. Uh…
Jenny: ​I really like that. What I don't like is what immediately follows it, which is
Buffy's like “You have a lot to learn about women, Riley,” and Riley's like, “You're
gonna teach me” — and then he… lopes off into the wilderness. Ummm…!
Kristin: ​What don't you like about that?
Jenny: ​What I don't like about it is that he's… I don't know, it feels like he…
[laughs] Oh no, maybe I've just been steeped in this for too long, but it feels like
he’s… I don't know, putting the burden of, of the education of Riley about women
on Buffy.
Kristin: ​I see, I see, I see. And so, me as a person who’s always drawn to, sort of
like, the bad, the bad boy, um, that's who I go for — I actually paid no attention to
what Riley said or the context at all, and only saw the fact that Riley, who's
normally pretty passive, was not passive at all, and like, sort of like, put his hand
behind her head in like a very strong manner, and looked at her, and I, and I was
there for it, Jenny. I was there for it. And I am not—
Jenny: ​It’s also weird for that to happen and for him to then not have kissed her.
Kristin: ​Well, that's why I… That's why I liked it, because it was like… she thought
he was going to kiss her and he was like, “Not yet.” And like, he's a dude, and he's
a dude I have issue with, so there's like some stuff there, but just in general, like—
Listen, if you're trying to appeal to me, the way to do it is a move like that. Like,
I'm just… you know? Remember when Oz—
Jenny: ​If you're trying to appeal to me, just have big strong arms, apparently
[both laugh]
Kristin: ​Nah it’s just like, remember when Oz like, flipped over the caldron on
behalf of Willow? Like, you know what I mean? I'm just like— I'm here for the,
like… I'm here for the strength, I'm here for the stature. I'm here for that. As long
as it's, you know, as long as it's consensual, which this certainly was, uh, I'm very
much here for it. So I don't know what happened to me this episode. I really
thought you were going to get a ‘Go away, Riley’ jingle, but you didn't because I
didn't really want Riley to go away this episode. I thought he was… ​whatever,​ um,
but he didn't bother—


Jenny: ​Ha!
Kristin: ​He didn't bother me as much as I thought that he would. Um, I had, I had
just a joy, a joyful ride with Spike, um… I mean this is, you know, we've talked
about like some of the individual moments, but like this is Spike at Spike's fucking
best. This is like… This is the reason why when I watched the series for the first
time, I came out the other end being like, “Spike’s my favorite!” It’s because he
embodies this… Like, kind of what you said in the episode, Jenny, like it's like, he's
like, dark and broody, he’s got peroxide hair and dark nails — oh my God, let's play
his fucking jingle, are we serious?
[SPIKE jingle plays]
Spike! I love you
Spike! So dreamy
Spike! Your trench coat
Spike! I love you
Spike! Your black nails
Spike! Peroxide
Kristin: ​And, and in the, in the middle, in his center, he's kinda like gooey and soft,
and he's also like really fucking funny! Like the combination of that—
Jenny: ​So funny.
Kristin:​ —dissonance is what, like, creates such a, such a great comedy. And
James Marsters is brilliant — he's brilliant, he's ​fucking​ brilliant, and so is Sarah
Michelle Gellar, so like getting to see them in this episode do this thing that is
totally​ the opposite of their normal interactions with each other is so fun, and I
have to imagine that it was just so fuc— like it was just so much fun. It reminded
me of, um, when we talked to Christine Sutherland about ‘Band Candy’ and like
how she was just like, “It was so fun ’cause it was ​totally​ opposite of what we all
played!” Like Giles getting to be teenage Giles, and Joyce and Principal Snyder all
getting to be like their teenage selves — it was just like, you know, just like a fun
adventure as an actor, I'm sure, when you get to like, throw off all the stuff you
normally do and try on something else for an episode.
Jenny: ​Yeah, seeing them in these like totally, uh, different and also inherently
hilarious roles is such a delight.
Kristin: ​Right? So fun! So… [sighs] I guess we'll just have to see what happens
next with this whole situation. [Jenny laughs] [faux-cluelessly] I think it's an
episode called ‘Hush’ — I haven't heard much about it.


Jenny:​ Yeah, it's one of the… It's like a… not even one of the fan faves, right?
Kristin: ​No, no, it's a smaller, kind of a throwaway episode.
Jenny: ​It’s a B-side of an episode.
Kristin: ​[laughs] Um, and I think we've done a decent job of discussing ‘Something
Blue’ — what do you think, Jenny?
Jenny: ​I think it's great, I think there's just [sexy voice] one thing missing.
Kristin: ​You're right.
[SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays]
Sexual tension award!
Jenny: ​Weeeell, here we are in what is traditionally the sexiest part of our episode:
[Kristin laughs] the Sexual Tension Awards. And today we are blessed with, uh, not
just one set of results, but actually two sets of results from the episodes ‘Pangs’
and the ​Angel​ episode, ‘I Will Remember You’, which we had a bonus Sexual
Tension Award poll for. So, let's talk about the winners and the losers — but we're
all winners when it comes to the Sexual Tension Awards.
Kristin: ​It's an honor just to be nominated. Jenny.
Jenny: ​Truly!​ [Kristin laughs] Truly. Okay, so in ​Buffy​ season four, episode eight.
‘Pangs’, here are the results. We've got coming in last place with 8% of the vote:
Anya and dying together — “I think it's romantic.” Maybe if it was the ​Romantic
Tension Awards—
Kristin: ​Mmm.
Jenny: ​—Anya and dying together could have taken it. Then in third place with
23% of the vote, we've got Anya and ritual sacrifice. And just one percentage point
ahead with 24% of the vote: Anya and the word ‘girlfriend’. Hot, hot, hot, hot, hot.
And then coming in first place, our winners for ‘Pangs’: Anya and Xander digging,
with 45% of the vote. Congratulations, Anya and Xander's digging.
Kristin: ​Yeah. I don't know how you mail a trophy to Xander's digging, but I'm sure
you're going to figure it out, Jenny.
Jenny: ​Yeah, maybe you dig a hole, bury the trophy — just hope for the best?


Kristin:​ Ohhh, yes, yes, I like it. [Jenny does a sneaky laugh] All right, we're going
into ‘I Will Remember You’ now — now I don't know if this is going to be included in
the finale vote at the end of the season, so we'll have to like really have a
discussion about that, but! We did a vote for a Sexual Tension Award in ​Angel
season one, episode eight, and coming in in last place was Angel and Lady Oracle—
otherwise known as—
Jenny: ​Boooo!
Kristin:​ —Lady Power — I know, I think they deserved some attention there, but
they were up against some heavy competition. Uh, two more percentage points up
— I'm really surprised at the lack of voting here — is Angel and Doyle. 7%!
[laughing in disbelief] They only got 7% of the vote!
Jenny: ​So low!
Kristin:​ And I think that's because of our other two nominees. Coming in in ​second
place for the episode, I will remind you, ‘I Will Remember You’, [laughing] is Angel
and Buffy with 34% of the vote. [Jenny laughs] Of course, the only combination
that could beat out Angel and Buffy — in their most important episode perhaps?
Who knows! — is Angel and food, [still laughing] coming in at 54%. Angel and food,
congratulations.
Jenny: ​Yeah, well the passion was high, you know… Buffy and Angel had sex like a
season ago, a season and a half ago; Angel and food haven't been together in like
243 years.
Kristin: ​That's true, the tension has been building for ​centuries!​
Jenny:​ [laughs]
Kristin:​ All right, Jenny, give us her nominees for this episode. Today's episode.
Jenny:​ Okay. For ‘Something Blue’ here are the nominees:
Both:​ [make drumroll noise]
Jenny:​ Buffy and Riley’s arms. Nice. Nice, nice. Nice. Okay. Buffy and Spike.
Kristin:​ Yeaaaah!
Jenny:​ Of course!


Kristin:​ Give me some of that Spuffy love!
Jenny:​ [laughs] Then we've got Spike and Passions, the television program. He
seems very invested emotionally. And a wild card, uh, your fourth option, Anya and
Xander's mom. Is there something going on there? Let's find out.
Kristin:​ What do those fruit roll ups mean? You know?
Jenny:​ Truly! They could mean anything. So if you want to participate in this
beautiful sexual tension award democracy, please, uh, check our Twitter for the
poll. We are @bufferingcast and you can ​cast y
​ our vote there.
Kristin:​ Ooh, nice. Nice little wordplay that ya did there, Jenny.
Jenny:​ I don't know. I don't know. Well, I'm Jenny Owen Youngs and when I'm not
watching Buffy, I am usually writing and recording songs. You can hear some of
those songs and learn more about me at jennyowenyoungs.com/buffering and you
can give me a shout on Twitter any old time @JennyOwenYoungs.
Kristin:​ Yes, and I am Kristin Russo. You can find more about me and the work
that I do with LGBTQ communities over on my website, kristinnoeline.com that's K,
R, I, S, T, I, N, N, O, E, L, I, N, E. You can use that spelling to also find me on
Twitter and on Instagram, where I post pictures of like, you know Sam the cat
and—
Jenny:​ [gasps] I know that cat!
Kristin:​ —stacks of my books with like ‘Kill your local misogynist’ mugs. Like things
I think most of you would be into if you want to like go on over there and give me a
shout, you can.
Jenny:​ Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram
@bufferingcast and you can always drop us an email at
bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin:​ Yes. And if you want to support us, there are many ways to do that. Many
ways for you to help lift us and help us lift you...and whatever. You can go to
iTunes and you can rate and review our podcast. That would be amazing. You
probably at this point know about our sister podcast ‘Angel on Top’. Um, but if you
don't, you should check them out. You should give them a listen and you should
also rate and review them because it helps people find our podcast and theirs. You
can also join us on Patreon, go to our website, bufferingthevampireslayer.com, click
on Patreon and you can join us at many levels over there and find out about all of


the really fun, wonderful rewards that you get for giving. And Jenny, you can also
go to our store and there's something in our store now—
Jenny:​ [gasps] Oh my god!
Kristin:​ —that you’re excited about. So why don't you tell people what they can
find in the store. It's justJenny:​ Well, it's just the reason I wanted to start a podcast so that we can
eventually make branded socks. Our very first pair of socks is availablel now in the
store. They’re so cool. They have our little hand-and-steak-in-front-of-the-moon
logo. They've got like the cemetery, uh, it's not a skyline, but I guess like a
headstone line, you know, repeating down the body of the sock. They say ‘Buffering
the Vampire Slayer’ on them. I love them so much!
Kristin:​ They're, yeah, they're really good. And um, you can find that, and also the
new seven inch vinyl that we have from last week's collaboration event, the little ‘I
Will Remember You’ featuring Ben Thornwell and of course Jenny Owen Youngs.
Plus all sorts of other fun goodies, t-shirts and enamel pins and mugs and what
have you. Just go to bufferingthevampireslayer.com and click on shop and you can
find all of those things.
Jenny:​ Yes, indeed. And till next time...
Both:​ Awoooooo!
[clip of Bette Midler performing “Wind Beneath My Wings” plays]
It must have been cold there in my shadow
To never have sunlight on your face
You were content to let me shine, that's your way
Jenny:​ Oh my God. The classic vampire love ballad. “It must've been cold there in
my shadow. Never the sunlight on your face.” That's right, Spike. Never the
sunlight on your face. Only the sunlight on your tattered blanket that you're
running around town in.
Kristin:​ That is of course not this week’s song, but we just had to make you think
it was for just a moment. Oh goodness. Okay. Without further ado, Jenny, let’s get
into the actual song for this week.
Jenny:​ Here we go. Here we go.


[Jenny performing “Something Blue” from the album “Songs of Season Four”]
Have you met my boyfriend — I mean, my fiancé?
Who needs a living boy when you have a vampire bae
He’s not the kind you take home to open arms and hearts
But when he gave me his skull ring, I knew we’d never part
He’s oil, I’m holy water
I’m the chosen one, he’s a cold-blooded killer
But we’ll be cozy forever
in a crypt with a picket fence
We’ve got nothing in common
I like doily pillows, he sleeps in a coffin
And though it might interfere with my calling
Somehow this just makes sense
Doesn’t it?
I’m ninety-eight point six-ish, he’s room temp til the end
But y’know we heat up real quick cause he’s my ride-or-undead
I can see him in our future whittling my stakes
And every night I’ll feed him
Blood from a mug til we’re old and grey
I mean, blood from a mug til *I’M* old & grey
He’s oil, I’m holy water
I’m the chosen one, he’s a cold-blooded killer
But we’ll be cozy forever


in a crypt with a picket fence
We’ve got nothing in common
I like doily pillows, he sleeps in a coffin
And though it might interfere with my calling
Somehow this just makes sense
Doesn’t it?
Spike, so dreamy
Spike, your trench coat
Spike, don’t ever change
Spike, peroxide
Spike, your black nails
make me go insane
With the love that pounds inside my chest
And you breathe me down like a Morley’s cigarette
He’s oil, I’m holy water
I’m the chosen one, he’s a cold-blooded killer
But we’ll be cozy forever
in a crypt with a picket fence
We’ve got nothing in common
I like doily pillows, he sleeps in a coffin
And though it might interfere with my calling
Somehow this just makes sense
Doesn’t it?


Jenny: ​Today’s episode was brought to you by PrettyLitter. If, like me, you love
your cat. If you’re listening, Sam. And are tired of dealing with heavy bags of cat
litter, you need to make the switch to PrettyLitter, cat litter 2.0. PrettyLitter not
only conceals odor and moisture better than conventional cat litter, it also monitors
your cat’s health by changing colors to detect illness. Try Pretty Litter today by
visiting prettylitter.com and use promo code ‘Buffy’ for 20% off your first order.
That’s prettlitter.com, promo code ‘Buffy’.

