Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 2.07: Lie to Me
Jenny: ​Hey, everyone. Before we get started today, we wanted to alert you
to our two upcoming online events. On Sunday March 5th at 1 p.m. Pacific, 4
p.m. East Coast Time, Kristin and I will be broadcasting via the online
concert platform Stageit, performing all twelve songs from Season 1 as well
as a handful of songs from Season 2. If you’ve never used Stageit, let me
tell you, it is a hoot! You’ll be be able to see and hear us and you’ll be able
to ask us questions and talk to each other via an embedded chat screen.
Tickets are $5 and you can grab one at stageit.com/bufferingcast.
Kristin: ​[laughing] Also, on March 10th– many of you probably know what
March 10th is, but if you don’t, it is the 20th anniversary of the first episode
of ​Buffy the Vampire Slayer​ airing here in the United States, on the WB. And
so, we are in quite a festive mood about it and we are going to be doing a
free live streaming ​Buffy​-watch of Season 1, Episode 1, “Welcome to
Hellmouth,” at 8 p.m. Eastern Standard Time– that’s 5 p.m. Pacific Time– on
facebook.com/bufferingcast. We’re gonna watch through the episode. The
way that it works is that you have your DVD or your Hulu or your Netflix or
however you watch ​Buffy​. We all queue up together, you hit play on your
end, we hit play on our end. You hear some of our commentary, we all chat
together. It is… very, very fun and it is going to be a wonderful way to
celebrate [whispers] 20 years!
Jenny:​ Hooray!
Kristin:​ Can you even believe it? Twenty years! So we will see you hopefully
on March 5th ​and ​March 10th. And if not, we’ll see you sometime soon.
Jenny:​ Yeah!
[Theme Music]
Jenny:​ Oh my God, hello and welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a
podcast where we are watching and discussing every episode of ​Buffy the
Vampire Slayer​, one at a time. I am Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin:​ And I’m Kristin Russo and this week, we’re talking about Season 2,


Episode 7, “Lie to Me.” Stay tuned at the end of this podcast every week for
an original song written by us recapping the ​Buffy​ episode we are discussing.
Jenny: ​“Lie to Me” was written and directed by Joss Whedon, a guy we’ve
heard of [Kristin laughs] and originally aired on November 3rd, 1997.
Kristin:​ And this is the one where Buffy is lured into a trap by a group of
undead wannabes who hope that Spike will make them vampires in
exchange for giving him the slayer.
Jenny: ​Wow.
Kristin:​ You like the IMBD?
Jenny:​ They did a great job!
Kristin:​ IMBD rocks it out with their summaries.
Jenny:​ I would’ve said,this is the one where Angel gets jealous, Willow can’t
lie, Ford is stupid and… Buffy is great.
Kristin:​ There’s the episode. We can just– that’s the– awwwooo!
Jenny:​ Yeah, awwooo!
Kristin:​ Just kidding. [laughs]
Jenny:​ So wow, what a great episode!
Kristin: ​Yeah, this is a phenomenal episode. I have ​a lot​ that I wanna talk
about and I know you do too.
Jenny:​ Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes.
Kristin:​ So let’s just jump right into the opening shot, where–
Jenny:​ That playground!
Kristin:​ What d’you call that thing?


Jenny:​ Ooooh, it’s not a merry-go-round.
Kristin:​ That’s what I called it, a merry-go-round thing–
Jenny:​ Right.
Kristin:​ At the park where you spin around and you use your feet– you spin
and then you hop on– it’s a great playground pastime.
Jenny: ​If you know the name of this playground staple, please tweet it at
us, thank you.
Kristin:​ Yeah. @Bufferingcast.
Jenny: ​Mhm!
Kristin: ​That’s like, 722 mentions. [laughter] Everybody has the name for it.
It’s more fun than Google, you know?
Jenny:​ Yeah!
Kristin:​ Anyhow, this opening scene. I screamed. You know if you listen to
our series, how much I am obsessed with Wes Craven and this is– this
playground tool is in many a Wes Craven ​Nightmare on Elm Street.
Jenny: ​Yeah!
Kristin: ​That’s where the little creepy children sit–
Jenny: ​Yes!
Kristin: ​And they sing, [sings] one... two... Freddie’s coming for you.
Jenny: ​Yes. Is there anything creepier than a swing swinging slightly at
nighttime empty playground?
Kristin: ​You know, I think a couple of things, but–


Jenny:​ But it’s up there, right?
Kristin:​ It’s up there.
Jenny: ​It ranks?
Kristin:​ So the other day, I took a shower. I do that sometimes.
Jenny: ​Oh, fuck.
Kristin:​ I know, I have to keep telling people now. This happened to me and
I didn’t tell Jenny about it until that night, it happened to me in the morning.
I was taking a shower and our bathroom is set up where it’s like, a stand up
shower, like little square situation, and then directly next to it is a bathtub.
It’s– [laughs] it’s so pointless ‘cause you can either, like, take a bath and
use all of the space or you can take a shower and be stuck in a little box.
Jenny: ​Mm-hm!
Kristin: ​Anyhow, I was taking a shower. I had turned the water off and
when I turned the water off in the shower, I heard water still running and so
I was like, oh god, is there like a leak somewhere? It sounded like, you
know, if there’s a huge leak in your house, like the toilet is leaking to floor
below or something. [Jenny laughs.] And I was like, oh god, what is that
noise? And I looked and the bathtub faucet had been turned on–
Jenny: ​[uncomfortably] Ughh!
Kristin: ​And the water was running and I– this is like a true testament to
the power of the human brain. ‘Cause I was like, [higher pitched] I must
have just knocked that… [Jenny laughs] on… with my body accidentally. And
[laughs] learned very quickly when I said it out loud to Jenny that, no, it’s
terrifying. I don’t know what happened. So that ranks up there with an
empty swing swinging, I think.
Jenny:​ Yeah. Also–
Kristin:​ Faucets turning on by themselves.


Jenny: ​Yeah. The chair that your sitting in right now–
Kristin:​ C’mon! What!?
Jenny: ​Okay. [laughing]
Kristin:​ What about it?
Jenny:​ Nothing!
Kristin:​ What? Oh, the ghost that’s in the studio.
Jenny:​ Yes! Yes.
Kristin:​ Go ahead, tell them.
Jenny:​ Well, some friends of ours–
Kristin:​ You didn’t have to start by being like, “the chair you’re sitting in
right now–”
Jenny: ​You could sharing space with a ghost right now.
Kristin: ​Well, I would be happy to share space with a ghost–
Jenny: ​That’s very nice.
Kristin: ​As long as it’s a nice ghost.
Jenny: ​Yeah, yeah, yeah. So friends of ours stayed in our place while we
were out of town. And after they left, they got in touch with us and they
were like, “do you have a ghost?” And we were like, “fucking– not that we
[yells] know of! Why are you bringing it up?” [Kristin chuckles] And they
were like, “well, every time we walked past the door to your studio, we could
see a shape in the chair–” the chair that Kristin’s sitting in right now.
Kristin:​ No big deal. Okay! You– I think you’ve established your point,
[Jenny laughs] Jennifer…


Jenny:​ We live in haunted-ass house, I guess?
Kristin:​ So we have– it isn’t– I wouldn’t classify it as haunted but I think
there’s some–
Jenny: ​[laughs] I thought were gonna say, “I wouldn’t classify it as
haunted-ass.”
Kristin: ​[laughs] I mean, there’s something going on but there’s– like, let’s
be real, there’s something going on in everybody’s house. A little bit.
Jenny:​ Now I’m going through my mind files of all the times you’re gonna
be out of town in the next, like, six months…
Kristin:​ Oh, brother.
Jenny:​ And I’m gonna be here alone. Wahhh.
Kristin: ​Yeah, and the ghost is gonna be like, “hey, remember that chair
you were sitting in?” And make you feel scary–
Jenny:​ No!
Kristin: ​Scared. Anyway. [Both laugh.] We get past this scene in the
playground with the spinny thing and now we meet this child–
Jenny: ​Oh my god.
Kristin: ​This unnamed child who has one of my favorite moments in the
entire episode ‘cause I think it’s the first line we hear which is, [laughs]
“C’mon, Mom. She’s ​always ​late.” And it’s like– [both laugh] thank you for
the exposition, like, we’ve established what is happening via this child’s line.
Jenny: ​Yeah. Mm-hm, mm-hm.
Kristin:​ So yeah, this child is alone.
Jenny: ​And then from the gloom, emerges...


Kristin: ​As always.
Jenny: ​A pure white lamb. [Kristin laughs] Actually, speaking of lambs, I
guess this is why I have the image, because I wrote down the lyric of a song
that her mother used to sing her–
Kristin: ​Ugh!
Jenny:​ [sings creepily] “Run and catch, the lamb is caught in the blackberry
patch.” Ahhhh!
Kristin:​ Yeah and she follows her, like, rendition by saying, “she had the
sweetest voice.” [laughter]
Jenny: ​Yeah!
Kristin:​ I think either you’re singing it differently or you misremembered,
Dru.
Jenny:​ Yeah. So good.
Kristin:​ But yeah, so Dru is just creepy as all get out.
Jenny:​ And gettin’ closer and closer to the kid. He’s like, “I’m not supposed
to talk to people.” She’s like, “I’m not a person.” Yes!
Kristin:​ Yeah, “I’m not a person” and then she’s like, [in Dru’s accent] “I
wonder what your mother will think when she finds your body.” [laughter]
Come on!
Jenny:​ And then Angel, who we still continue to wonder, can he fly?
Kristin: ​Right?
Jenny:​ Inserts himself at light speed–
Kristin: ​Yeah.
Jenny:​ Between Drusilla and this kid. And he’s like, [deep growly voice]


“Run home. Now.” [Kristin laughs] Yeah, who’s scarier in this scene? To the
kid, do you think?
Kristin:​ To the kid? I think–
Jenny: ​Probably Angel...
Kristin: ​Drusilla.
Jenny: ​Really?
Kristin:​ I would remember…
Jenny:​ She seems unhinged but Angel seems like–
Kristin: ​I mean, Angel’s definitely, like– I mean, the kid listens, so the kid is
scared to the point of running from Angel, but I think it’s more of a powerful
fear than like a– haunting you for the rest of your life in your nightmares
kind of a fear, which is what Drusilla, I think, presents here.
Jenny: ​Right. Right, right, right.
Kristin: ​And then I have to give– I mean, and I’m sure I’m gonna do this so
many times. But Juliet Landau. [Jenny laughs.] Are you kidding me? This
scene between her and Angel, between Juliet Landau and Angel. [laughter]
But this scene between them is– she is incredible. The way that she, like,
angles her head up towards his face while she talks to him and then,
[laughs] please go back and rewatch when she walks away.
Jenny:​ Oh my god. The look while she’s walking away.
Kristin:​ It’s unbelievable! Like, I can’t imagine– you know, a lot times
you’re like, oh well, you know, what a great decision on the director’s part to
say, “oh, do this this way and would probably be effective” or what have
you. And, you know, that there’s this equal shared space between, like, an
actor and the director and how it comes together. I just don’t believe that
this had much to do with the direction. It just seems to emanate from her
being.


Jenny: ​Yeah. Yeah, yeah.
Kristin:​ Even if somebody said, “walk away creepily.” Like, I would
[laughing] never wind up being able to do what–
Jenny: ​Yeah.
Kristin:​ Drusilla does, Juliet Landau does in this moment.
Jenny: ​Well, what’s– I think that what makes her extra creepy is that she’s
rarely... deliberately menacing.
Kristin:​ Right!
Jenny: ​There’s always this just sort of like… detached, kind of unhinged…
Kristin: ​She’s just telling it like it is.
Jenny: ​Slow creep– yeah, yeah. Very matter of fact within her own
universe.
Kristin:​ ​Yeah. Ugh! I love her and I know this is early but I think that
Drusilla earned this early. Can we hear the Drusilla jingle?
Jenny:​ Here it is.
[Drusilla jingle]
Drusilla, you fill up my heart with dread
And still I’m led right back to you
Jenny:​ Okay, so that was the Drusilla jingle [Kristin laughs] and just in case
you’re wondering, if you’re an iPhone user, that ringtone is now live. You can
go into the iTunes store on your phone and find the Drusilla jingle. We’re
very excited about it.
Kristin:​ So good.
Jenny:​ Our growing catalogue of ringtone jingles.


Kristin:​ Also, shout out– someone– we retweeted someone within the last
couple of weeks who tweeted at us about Drusilla and used the most
remarkable emoji combination to describe Drusilla. It was like a bat, a dead
rose, the witchy globe– [Jenny laughs] and I think the coffin and one other
thing– it was–
Jenny:​ The dark side of the moon, maybe?
Kristin:​ Yeah, yeah! It was just, like, unbelievable, so shout out to you,
human being.
Jenny:​ Way to go.
Kristin:​ Way to go. Nailed it, totally nailed it. Last thing before we get to the
credits is, at first, when I watched this opening, I was like, how long has this
kid been waiting for his mother? It’s like–
Jenny:​ It is so dark!
Kristin: ​It’s so dark! But then, later on in the episode–
Jenny:​ Ohh, sunset–
Kristin: ​We learn that sunset is at 6:27 now, so you know–
Jenny: ​Right, not that late.
Kristin:​ After school programming, yeah.
Jenny: ​Sure, sure.
Kristin: ​I gave the mom a little bit more of a pass [laughs] than I did in the
initial viewing.
Jenny: ​Yeah. The two things that I want to say before we go past the
credits, is Buffy sees this happening?
Kristin: ​Yep.


Jenny: ​Buffy sees Angel and Drusilla engaged and they’re very close and
especially with her head tilting, it looks like maybe they could be kissing or
something.
Kristin: ​Right.
Jenny:​ Okay, and also…
Kristin: ​Drusilla kind of always looks like she could be kissing the person
she’s talking to.
Jenny: ​That’s true.
Kristin: ​[laughing] Right?
Jenny:​ And also, the way that Angel says “hello Drusilla.” It’s, like, very
formal and very guilty. As someone who really, like, gets guilt.
Kristin: ​Yeah.
Jenny:​ That really just rang out to me. [Kristin laughs] I was like, yes, I
know where you are.
Kristin: ​Yeah, you have a lot of overlap with Angel’s ability to feel guilty.
And as we’ll talk about in a little while, I noticed a parallel between you and
Giles in this episode.
Jenny: ​What a delight. What a delight, hooray.
Kristin: ​So right, so Buffy sees this, setting the tone for this episode, which
really orbits arounds lies.
Jenny: ​Right, right, right.
Kristin: ​And the complicated nature of lies, that they’re not black and white
things, they’re not always bad and they’re not always good and they’re
usually somewhere in between.
Jenny: ​Mm-hm, mm-hm.


Kristin:​ But before we start digging into that... can we talk about Jenny
Calendar and Giles? [Jenny and Kristin giggle and hoot]
Jenny: ​Yes!
Kristin: ​Because... so Jenny Calendar gets a sweet, sweet burn in here in
the opening moments of the episode, where, you know, Giles is so upset
that Jenny is not telling him what they’re gonna do on their date. And just
sidebar here, they’re very openly, like…
Jenny: ​Planning dates in school!
Kristin: ​Yeah! Just like– ‘cause I went to high school where two of the
teachers were starting to date.
Jenny:​ Oh my god, me too!
Kristin:​ And it was like, the ​hot​ gossip.
Jenny: ​Yes! The big secret.
Kristin: ​Everybody was, like, “do you think that they’re dating?”
Jenny: ​Wait, were they​– ​was one of them getting a divorce though?
Kristin: ​Ooh, I don’t know! Maybe.
Jenny: ​‘Cause that was ​definitely​–
Kristin: ​Actually, maybe!
Jenny: ​The situation at my school, which made it hotter goss.
Kristin: ​Yeah! Actually, I think you might be right, but regardless, it was,
like​– ​you know, we were, like, watching their every move!
Jenny: ​Yeah!


Kristin: ​You know, if he would come into her classroom, everybody would
be like, [deeper voice] “ha ha ha ha ha…” You know? [Jenny laughs] So I
feel like ​–
Jenny: ​Ugh, kids are such assholes.
Kristin: ​[laughs] Yeah. So I just feel like seeing them​– ​seeing Jenny
Calendar and Giles operate in the hallways, it just seems like the students
don’t care and I beg to differ with that assessment.
Jenny: ​Yeah, beg to diff.
Kristin: ​Students ​super ​care when teachers date each other.
Jenny: ​Uh huh, uh huh.
Kristin: ​Anyhow, Giles is upset because Jenny won’t tell him where they’re
going on their secret date. [Jenny laughs] And he’s like, “how am I supposed
to know what to wear?” And Jenny says, “Do you own anything else?”
Jenny: ​Just​ all​ tweed, all the time.
Kristin: ​All tweed all the time, for Giles.
Jenny: ​I’m picturing him going swimming, going to the beach, you know, in
like... well, I guess what​– ​I was trying to think about, like, tweed swim
trunks [Kristin laughs] but I feel like he just wears one of those one-piece
black and white striped, sort of like...
Kristin: ​Jenny.
Jenny: ​Like, if you picture a StrongMan.
Kristin: ​Jenny?
Jenny: ​What?
Kristin: ​I don’t mean to take you off course here, but Giles does ​not ​go to
the beach!


Jenny: ​[laughing] Oh yeah.
Kristin: ​[laughing] Come on!
Jenny: ​No, but like what if he has to for​–
Kristin: ​No.
Jenny: ​Research...
Kristin: ​Giles​– ​literally, he would go in his tweed suit.
Jenny: ​With a parasol?
Kristin: ​With a parasol. Yes, and his fucking green mug, which we still
haven’t seen but one day, we will.
Jenny: ​[sings] One day!
Kristin: ​I can’t wait. Oh my god, I don’t even know when the first
appearance is. It’s gonna take us by surprise. I’m gonna scream. [Jenny
chuckles] I’m gonna scream so loud when I see it for the first time. Anyhow,
so this, you know, fun moment between Jenny Calendar and Giles passes
and we cut to class. There’s so much going on in this classroom.
Jenny: ​Oh my god.
Kristin: ​Willow and Buffy are passing notes to each other. Your standard
high school, you know, fodder here​– ​passing notes, except for their notes
are, [laughing] like, “was she pretty? Vampire, question mark?” Which is
hysterical.
Jenny: ​[laughs] Yeah.
Kristin: ​And Cordelia and Xander are sitting across from each other. Xander
is wearing this, like, ​incredible ​red, shiny​–
Jenny: ​Oh my god.


Kristin: ​Adidas, with the stripes down the side.
Jenny: ​I’m glad that you brought this up.
Kristin: ​I am glad that I brought it up too.
Jenny: ​Because he’s also wearing Salvation Army, like, plaid old man pants.
Kristin: ​Uh huh.
Jenny: ​And I just wanted to say that I absolutely 100% owned and wore a
variation of that outfit.
Kristin: ​That entire outfit​?
Jenny: ​That combination together. Yeah, what a great idea! Let me just
wear this shiny Adidas jersey.
Kristin: ​[laughing] Yeah!
Jenny: ​With these old, like, herringbone [laughter], fucking grandpa pants.
Kristin: ​Hey, we were reinventing the wheel, Jenny.
Jenny: ​Right, yeah. That’s what we were doing.
Kristin: ​We were making a name for ourself, and it was the kids of the 90s,
what the hell were they thinking? [laughs]
Jenny: ​And a hemp necklace​–
Kristin: ​Oh, yeah.
Jenny: ​And a pair of Airwalks.
Kristin: ​I had ​many ​hemp necklaces.
Jenny: ​Me too!


Kristin: ​I actually​– ​I adopted my cat​–
Jenny: ​Oh my god.
Kristin: ​In 2001. I named him Trey, after Trey from the band Phish.
Jenny: ​This is ​so​ embarrassing.
Kristin: ​And had my girlfriend make him a hemp collar! So there’s some
factual information [Jenny laughs] about my life and my past. Anyhow.
Cordelia. This is, I think, the only time we see Cordelia in this episode? It’s
not a very Cordy-heavy​–
Jenny: ​No, I think that’s her only moment.
Kristin: ​I think it’s her only moment, but it is quite a moment.
Jenny: ​She leaves an impression.
Kristin: ​She does. She is defending Marie Antoinette. [Jenny makes a
nervous sound] And what’s ​really ​special, is that she’s very confused. She’s
very confused about Marie Antoinette, and what Marie Antoinette was about,
and Marie Antoinette is a complicated figure. We did some reading on Marie
Antoinette.
Jenny: ​Mm-hm.
Kristin: ​And there’s a lot, you know, is it Marie Antoinette? Is it the
patriarchy? Is it a combination of both? I can’t believe you didn’t shout “the
patriarchy!”
Jenny: ​[yells] The patriarchy! [Kristin laughs] Sorry, sorry, I was just so
entranced​–
Kristin: ​By my speech?
Jenny: ​Listening to you talk.


Kristin: ​But the one thing we do know is that falsely as it may be attributed
to Marie Antoinette, this quote, “let them eat cake,” that Cordelia references
by saying, [imitating Cordelia] “I mean, she at least let them eat cake.”
Jenny: ​Oh my god.
Kristin: ​Is really underlining something here, which is​– ​so the quote “let
them eat cake” is attributed to, right, that the poor people in France​– ​it was
told to Marie Antoinette the poor people in France didn’t have any bread.
And she was like, “well, why not let them eat brioche then?” And, like, first
of all, I don’t​– ​what we read says that that quote actually wasn’t even really
Marie Antoinette, blah blah blah blah blah.
Jenny: ​Uh huh, uh huh.
Kristin: ​But the context of it is this, is that, you know, she’s ​so ​tone deaf to
the circumstances of people living in poverty that it doesn’t occur to her that
they don’t have bread because they are poor. She just thinks, oh well, if
they don’t have bread, then give them something else! Give them cake, or
brioche.
Jenny: ​Right.
Kristin: ​Or whatever, in the translation it was.
Jenny: ​Also, isn’t brioche just bread?
Kristin: ​No, brioche is ​delicious ​bread!
Jenny: ​Well, yeah, but it’s like, of the bread family.
Kristin: ​But it’s ​fancy ​bread.
Jenny: ​Oooh, right right right right.
Kristin: ​Which I think where the dichotomy is, right?
Jenny: ​Fancy bread.


Kristin: ​Like, oh, they don’t have regular bread? Give ‘em fancy bread! Like,
it doesn’t occur to, you know, Marie Antoinette, or whoever in this quote,
that​– ​how poverty affects people. She’s totally clueless.
Jenny: ​Mhm, mhm.
Kristin: ​And so the fact that [laughs] then Cordelia, adding a layer to this
cake​– ha, ha, ha!
Jenny: ​Oh my god.
Kristin: ​Cordelia is misinterpreting that thing, right, on top of itself, thinking
“but she gave them cake,” is underlining some of Cordelia’s, you know, lack
of awareness around the situation in France at the time, the situation in her
life oftentimes–
Jenny: ​Right, right, right.
Kristin: ​You know, what people do and do not have access to. And I think
that is a really important Cordelia thing to just keep our eyes on. Because,
you know, Cordelia– we love her for many reasons, but this moment is
pointed.
Jenny: ​Yeah, yeah, yeah. I wish we had time for you to read all those
Wikipedia articles you read aloud to me. [Kristin laughs] In the kitchen.
Kristin: ​Stay tuned for our side podcast “Kristin reads Wikipedia Articles on
Marie Antoinette.” [laughter] So yeah, so anyway, Cordelia, thank you for
your presence, but we are not giving you a jingle this week.
Jenny: ​No, no, no.
Kristin: ​We need you to brush up on your history.
Jenny: ​Please.
Kristin: ​Just a wee bit.
Jenny: ​But also… well, I don’t really know enough about Marie Antoinette to


really posit something. But I'm just wondering, like, Marie Antoinette was
not the only person in power at that exact moment. She became queen
when she married Louis the [mutters exaggeratedly].
Kristin: ​Yes. I think 16th.
Jenny:​ Yeah, I thought so, too.
Kristin: ​Which sounded like what you censored yourself saying, yeah.
Jenny: ​Right, yeah. Cool, cool, cool. So, like, why doesn’t ​he ​get the flack?
[yells]​ ​Is it because of the patriarchy?!
Kristin: ​Well, and that’s the thing! That’s the thing with Marie Antoinette, is
that, you know, it seems like a lot of things point to her ​really ​being the
scapegoat, if you will, for the French Revolution. That, you know, when
Marie Antoinette was beheaded, it was much more about the symbolism–
Jenny: ​Right, right, right.
Kristin: ​Of that, that kind of processing, the spending she would, you know,
that she purportedly did, and her lack of awareness and what have you, that
she was really killed as a symbol of what was dying as a result of the French
Revolution, which ​of course​ is tied into the patriarchy. Why not Louis XVI?
Why not a million other people who are participating in this. But–
Jenny: ​Do you know what I think?
Kristin: ​What do you think?
Jenny: ​We are gonna get so many long emails. [Kristin laughs] And I’m
really excited.
Kristin: ​I know, ‘cause we, like, read two Wikipedia articles on Marie
Antoinette and certainly–
Jenny: ​We’re like, “well, actually…”
Kristin: ​[laughs] Yeah. Everyone’s like–


Jenny: ​And so, please let us know your thoughts.
Kristin: ​Yeah, please!
Jenny: ​I’m sure there is at least one Marie Antoinette or French Revolution
scholar who listens to this podcast.
Kristin: ​Who’s like, “oh, brother.”
Jenny: ​And they've just been waiting for this episode.
Kristin: ​[laughs] They thought Cordelia was bad until we opened our
mouths.
Jenny: ​Yeah. [laughter]
Kristin: ​Anyhow. We have– speaking of problematic things, Xander has
some moments here.
Jenny: ​Oh geez. Ford shows up–
Kristin: ​Right. That's the trigger.
Jenny: ​That's what prompts it.
Kristin: ​Mhm, that's Xander's trigger. You know, we know by now that
Xander loves Buffy and any threat to his relationship to Buffy– which he
knows he doesn't really have a shot at, but he just holds out this hope– is
going to trigger him to, typically, do some things that are kind of fucked up.
Jenny: ​Mhm.
Kristin: ​And he does, he does. First of all, before Ford shows up, they're
talking– I can’t remember what they're talking about, but he's like, "gives
him a happy." Something–
Jenny: ​Ohh, he said when Angel does bad things or something–


Kristin: ​Oh, so similar context. Yeah, when Angel does something bad, it
gives Xander a happy. Now–
Jenny: ​Gross!
Kristin: ​I don't know about you, but I would like to put out a ban–
[laughter] on anyone saying that.
Jenny: ​"Gives me a happy."
Kristin: ​No, thank you.
Jenny: ​I was just giving– I was just cementing the example.
Kristin: ​Right. We do get to see Xander dancing, which I'm–
Jenny: ​[yells] Oh, god!
Kristin: ​It's like, I hate it [Jenny laughs] so much, I ​love ​it.
Jenny: ​Yeah. It's so bad-good.
Kristin: ​I really do, I really love when Xander dances. But then Xander
makes this comment, after Ford is there and Buffy is, kind of all over Ford.
It's a little weird.
Jenny: ​Oh my god, instantaneous. It's so– it just feels, like, not ​her​.
Kristin: ​Yeah, because they're, like, immediately holding hands and she's,
like, linking arms with him–
Jenny: ​Yeah. “I had ​such ​a crush on you, I moped over you for ​weeks​."
Kristin: ​Yeah. It's like a whole–
Jenny: ​They're laying it on really thick!
Kristin: ​But I think, perhaps, some of the motivation for this is that she's
just come off of seeing Angel–


Jenny: ​Yeah...
Kristin: ​And Drusilla, so she's like really acting out–
Jenny: ​Trying to make herself feel better. Mm-hm, mm-hmm.
Kristin: ​Yeah, yeah.​ ​Because it doesn't seem like Buffy at all. Anyhow,
Xander makes this comment when they walk away.
Jenny: ​Ugh.
Kristin: ​"Doesn't she know– geez, doesn't she know any fat guys?" Which
is–
Jenny: ​[yells] Ughhh!
Kristin: ​Super shitty, super fat shaming of Xander and, you know, and falls
in line with some of the other stuff that we've called Xander out on. And that
we've called out more than just Xander on, when it comes to being crappy to
people who don't fit a particular mould that you have in your mind of who
Buffy might be attracted to–
Jenny: ​Mhm.
Kristin: ​Or want to hold hands with, or link elbows with.
Jenny: ​[chuckles] Link elbows with.
Kristin: ​So Xander...
Jenny: ​Come on, man. Should we have a Xander shame jingle?
Kristin: ​[laughing] Ohhh, no!
Jenny: ​No, no, no. We have enough jingles.
Kristin: ​Xander, come on.


Jenny: ​We have enough jingles, we have enough jingles.
Kristin: ​Xander, come on man. Oh man, okay, well, we'll see what happens.
[laughter]
Jenny: ​Also, there's that great moment where Buffy has revealed that she–
while she was moping, she listened to the Divinyls' song, "I Touch Myself."
Kristin: ​[laughs] Yes.
Jenny: ​And, 45 to 60 seconds later, Willow has an awakening moment
where she realizes, "oh, that's what that song was about."
Kristin: ​Yes.
Jenny: ​Which is nice.
Kristin: ​Which is nice, and this was very believable to me. I don't think that,
like, I knew what masturbation was until I was in high school. Like, I didn't–
you know what I mean?
Jenny: ​Yeah!
Kristin: ​So this added up to me that, like, they would be, like, "Ohh, that's
what that song meant." In fifth grade, you were, like, you know– you
thought it was inappropriate and silly and kind of sexy, but you didn't really
know–
Jenny: ​Yeah.
Kristin: ​What it meant. You thought, like, maybe they were like touching
their skin and like, dancing sexily...
Jenny:​ [laughing] Kristin is– has her hand [Kristin laughs] pressed to her
clavicles right now, just FYI. [laughs] That's what's going on ​here​. Uhh,
yeah, this is just making me think about, like, kissing your pillow–
Kristin: ​Right.


Jenny: ​And, like, that thing everybody would do where you wrap your arms
all the way around you so it looks like somebody's hands are holding your
back.
Kristin: ​Yeah. Exactly!
Jenny: ​And you're making out with them.
Kristin: ​Right! [Jenny laughs] It was like what sex was when you were a
kid, if you were– especially if you grew up in the 90s, but unfortunately, still
if you grow up now. People don't really talk about sex or masturbation or
bodies to young people, and so we're all just left kissing our pillows.
Jenny: ​Aww.
Kristin: ​And finding out, later on in life, that the songs we'd been singing
loudly, and with passion, have been actually meaning, “when I think about
you, I masturbate all the time.”
Jenny: ​Hooray! [Kristin laughs] So... Xander changes his outfit for the
Bronze. He's now wearing a brown shirt-jacket with some contrast stitching,
you may remember from the 90s, and now. And, like, a white T-shirt and
some, like, regular pants that aren't plaid. Better look.
Kristin: ​And this is the Xander, the jealous Xander, that I like. [Jenny bursts
out laughing in agreement] I'm suuuper down with–
Jenny: ​With the, [imitating Xander] "you're not wrong!" The "you're not
wrong" refrain.
Kristin: ​Yes, like Xander– and I think that underlines this point, that, like,
you can be jealous and have feelings, and actually be hilarious.
Jenny: ​Yeah. Yes! Exactly, totally.
Kristin: ​You know?
Jenny: ​Because this is a great, great moment for him.


Kristin: ​Yeah. 'Cause Ford of course is like, you know, "oh, he seems older."
[laughing] "You're not wrong!"
Jenny: ​[laughs] Cold hands!
Kristin and Jenny: ​"You're not wrong!"
Kristin: ​[laughs] Yeah. Really, really good.
Jenny: ​Also, this velvet shirt on Angel–
Kristin: ​Ohh god.
Jenny: ​We were wondering aloud, did he wear this last week or the week
before or something, or am I just... maybe he wears it in a later episode
that we did a Buffy Watch of.
Kristin: ​That we did a Buffy Watch– yeah, that's what I was thinking. That's
what throws me off, actually, in remembering, did that happen already, is
that sometimes we've watched an episode forward, and I'm like, ohhh.
Jenny: ​But that deeply patterned–
Kristin: ​Oh my god.
Jenny: ​Crop circle, velvet shirt. Good gravy.
Kristin: ​You know, my ex-girl– when I started dating my ex-girlfriend, like,
probably a month or two into dating, she was like, "can you help me clean
out my closet?" [Jenny laughs] And I swear, I swear to you, that she had,
like, at least three of the Angel shirts.
Jenny: ​Jen?!
Kristin: ​Yes.
Jenny: ​Listen.
Kristin: ​Called out!


Jenny: ​Kristin's ex, Jen, my favorite person [yells] on the planet.
Kristin: ​[laughing] She liked her polyester, she liked her fancy, button-y
shirts.
Jenny: ​[whispers] God! What a lady.
Kristin: ​She was really holding tight to that. But yeah, so okay, then Angel
lies, right? This is when we get, I guess– well, no, it's not our first lie. It's
our second lie because Ford has lied to Buffy, right.
Jenny: ​Said he's matriculating.
Kristin: ​Yeah.
Jenny: ​[yells] Lie!
Kristin: ​Lies! But we get this moment between Angel and Buffy where she
asks him what he was doing and he says, "I did nothing, I was just home
reading." And she's like, oh. Fuck. And I get like a pit in my stomach in this
moment ‘cause I know– you know that feeling. I think most of us know that
feeling of–
Jenny: ​When you know somebody's lying to you?
Kristin: ​Yes! [Jenny makes uncomfortable noises] It's a horrible feeling. Oh
my god, it just made me think of The Jinx.
Jenny: ​Ugh!
Kristin: ​The worst of all. The worst of all.
Jenny: ​Dear lord.
Kristin: ​Which I won't– if you haven't watched that, please, go and watch it.
It's upsetting but it's necessary. Okay, anyway. So this lie happens, and
she's like, "I'm fuckin' outta here." She takes Ford, they go on a walk. You
know, whatever. It's like, I know that is a major plot point, but I don't really


care about it very much. She slays a vampire–
Jenny: ​Well, I think it's important–
Kristin: ​You talk about it.
Jenny: ​To just mention, they're just taking a nice stroll down one of
Sunnydale's premier creepy dark alleys in the warehouse district.
Kristin: ​Uh huh, uh huh, uh huh.
Jenny: ​And Buffy realizes she has to slay a vampire so she tries to distract
Ford, and asks him to go get her purse–
Kristin: ​Run! [laughs]
Jenny: ​Run. And then, while she's slaying the vampire, and then Ford
comes up, and is like, "what happened?" And she's like, "a cat!" [Kristin
laughs] "And another cat!" Great cover story.
Kristin: ​Yeah, that's true, that is really good.
Jenny: ​See, this is Buffy lying.
Kristin: ​Yeah, Buffy–
Jenny: ​[laughing] And doing a bang-up job.
Kristin: ​And only to be topped soon by Willow.
Jenny: ​By Willow. Oh my god.
Kristin: ​Which we will get to.
Jenny: ​And then Ford reveals that he knows she’s the slayer. They don’t get
into any details whatsoever about it, why he knows what a slayer is, how he
found out, none of that, which seems odd.
Kristin: ​No, it’s sort of like, “well, I was at your last school and I put the


pieces together.” It’s like, what? Don’t you know how this show works?
Nobody puts the pieces together. That’s not how it works. Anyhow, later–
Jenny: ​[laughs] So later in Willow’s room…
Kristin: ​Buffy and Willow are on the phone and this brought me so much
nostalgia. Buffy’s phone, especially. Buffy’s cordless white plastic phone that
she has cradled between her shoulder and her ear, it gave me all these
flashbacks to my ear, my one ear being, like, bright fucking red–
Jenny: ​Being like, smashed.
Kristin: ​So hot from having been on the phone for just hours upon hours
upon hours with my friends. And then Willow–
Jenny: ​Oh my god. Laying on her stomach on her bed with her fucking
knees bent and her fucking elephant slipper feet!
Kristin: ​Yeah, she’s adorable.
Jenny: ​Flapping in the breeze.
Kristin: ​With this long sleeve Ringer T-shirt nightgown.
Jenny: ​Yes! Ideal, ideal nightshirt.
Kristin: ​So cute, Willow, so cute.
Jenny: ​Great job.
Kristin: ​And then, who comes to the door?
Jenny: ​Rap tap tap, fucking... Angel–
Kristin: ​Angel!
Jenny: ​Vampire fives delivery service.
Kristin: ​Theirs is a forbidden love.


Jenny: ​Theirs is a forbidden love.
Kristin: ​As Willow says later.
Jenny: ​He has– he needs her to track some stuff down on the ‘net.
Kristin: ​On the net.
Jenny: ​He doesn’t even know what he’s looking for, but he’s looking for
something, anything weird. And it turns out, there’s weird stuff right away
[Kristin chuckles] when Willow Googles?
Kristin: ​No, there was no Google.
Jenny: ​When Willow... web searches?
Kristin: ​She probably asked Jeeves. [laughs]
Jenny: ​Oh my god. Willow looks online at the school records and sees that
Ford is not listed anywhere.
Kristin: ​Right, right. And Willow, this is an important– there’s a lot of shit in
this episode. This episode really contains a lot of important character
moments.
Jenny: ​Like Willow frantically hiding her bra?
Kristin: ​[laughing] Yes. Yes, like that.
Jenny: ​I’m with you Willow. That’s my vibe.
Kristin: ​That is a total Jenny move.
Jenny: ​Yes.
Kristin: ​God forbid a person of any gender were to see the undergarment–
Jenny: ​Heavens–


Kristin: ​Of Jenny Owen You– Jenny Owen Youngs does not wear
undergarments!
Jenny: ​No, I’m like a Barbie doll under here, it’s just all plastic. [Kristin
laughs] Plastic and smooth.
Kristin: ​But this–
Jenny: ​But with real-life proportions, obviously, because a Barbie is not
real-life proportions. ‘Kay.
Kristin:​ You good?
Jenny:​ Sorry, I just didn’t want anybody to think for one–
Kristin: ​Do you want to whisper the patriarchy?
Jenny: ​[whispers] The patriarchy.
Kristin: ​[laughs] But Angel and Willow have this exchange where Willow is
like, “I’ll look for you, but I have something to say.” And Angel, being 241, is
like, “I know. You think I might be jealous and like, I get it, but I’m not and
this is why I’m not.” But he has this little monologue where he talks about
the fact that he historically has not been a very jealous person, that for the
hundred years he really just moped around feeling very guilty–
Jenny: ​Woo, feel that! Feel that.
Kristin: ​Yeah, he really honed his brooding skills.
Jenny: ​Well…
Kristin: ​Oh, you don’t feel that as much?
Jenny: ​I don’t feel that, I just feel like– feeling guilty, not being jealous.
Yeah.
Kristin: ​Right, right, right. And then to end this scene, Willow’s mom is like,


“Willow!” or whatever and she says–
Jenny: ​Like a Cathy cartoon come to life!
Kristin: ​“Ack!” She says the word “ack” and I fucking love you, Alyson
Hannigan, for your ability to deliver “ack” via Willow. I mean, this is Willow,
right?
Jenny: ​Yeah.
Kristin: ​She’s one of the only people who could say “ack” out loud and
you’re like, yep. That’s believable.
Jenny: ​Yes, exactly.
Kristin: ​That’s 100% believable. Also, we skipped over–
Jenny: ​Oh my god, the Sunset Club?
Kristin: ​Yeah, the Sunset Club. [laughing] Also, the name. The Sunset Club,
you guys.
Jenny: ​Yeah, it does sound– well, it sounds really L.A. or something.
Kristin: ​It sounds like [singing] “midnight at the Oasis.”
Jenny: ​Where’s the Oasis, Las Vegas?
Kristin:​ I don’t know, just–
Jenny: ​It just exists in the song?
Kristin: ​If you told me that we were gonna go on a date to the Sunset Club,
I’d be like–
Jenny: ​You’d be like, “do I need to help you clean all the polyester and
velvet shirts out of your closet?”
Kristin: ​Yeah, I’d be really excited for the umbrellas that were gonna be in


my cocktails, you know?
Jenny: ​Yes. Just want to mention that while Ford is talking Diego, he takes
a pill that he says is Ritalin.
Kristin: ​Yes.
Jenny: ​Which we later, I think, can safely assume is not Ritalin but some
kind of medication, some kind of anti-nausea or brain cancer related
medication.
Kristin: ​But also an interesting cover, right, that you’re saying Ritalin and I
think another 90s– you know? This is a very 90s thing.
Jenny: ​Yes.
Kristin: ​First of all, today, it would probably be Adderall and second of all–
Jenny: ​Def.
Kristin: ​I don’t know the history of Ritalin and Adderall and ADD, but I do
know growing up in the 90s that that was a big fucking topic of
conversation. It had to be a boom of sorts of when kids were just being
diagnosed all over the place with ADD. So just a little 90s nugget.
Jenny: ​Nice. We also see Ford lip syncing this vampire movie which we did
some quick research on.
Kristin: ​Very Home Alone right? [laughter] “You filthy animal”, it’s totally
that scene.
Jenny: ​Yes, yes, exactly.
Kristin: ​But with ​Dracula​?
Jenny: ​Yes so this is– depending on your source, it’s either a 1973 or 1974
British television movie, Bram Stoker’s ​Dracula​. But it looks like it’s been
more recently rebranded as Dan Curtis’ ​Dracula ​because Dan Curtis directed
it and then in 1992, of course, the Bram Stoker’s ​Dracula ​that Winona Ryder


is in came out. So I think to separate it from that, they have rebranded it as
Dan Curtis’. Just a quick, quick note: this one was written by Richard
Matheson who wrote I Am Legend, which of course, the Will Smith zombie
movie was based on and directed by Dark Shadows creator, Dan Curtis.
That’s who Dan Curtis is. He created Dark Shadows, which I have very
specific three-year-old memories of seeing Dark– like, I think my mom was
watching it or just left–
Kristin: ​You were three? Wow.
Jenny: ​Yeah, not like I was watching a whole episode or anything, but I
remember seeing clips of it, seeing the opening credits or whatever.
Kristin: ​Yeah. Cool.
Jenny: ​Just vampire vibes.
Kristin: ​All these connections. Also, a connection that I didn’t mention is
that Ford is played by Jason Behr and a few years later, I guess seven, eight
years later, we’ll see Jason Behr and Sarah Michelle Gellar together in the
movie The Grudge which came out in 2004.
Jenny: ​Wow, I saw The Grudge in theaters.
Kristin: ​I think I did too, although I feel like I’m confusing The Grudge with
that movie where they were on the rollercoaster and he–
Jenny: ​Final Destination?
Kristin: ​No, no, no, it’s the one where the guy writes on his chest “Nicole 4
Eva” It’s Nicole and then the number 4 and then “eva.” Come on, it’s a
classic.
Jenny: ​I got nothing.
Kristin: ​Oh, maybe it’s The Crush.
Jenny: ​The Crush, the Grudge.


Kristin: ​I’ll find out. I’ll find out and get back to you.
[Post-production jingle plays]
Post-production fact correction,
Post-production fact correction!
Kristin: ​I was mistaken, dear listeners. The movie with the roller coaster
and :Nicole 4 Eva” is the movie Fear, which was released in 1996 and stars
Mark Wahlberg and Reese Witherspoon. Not to be confused with 1993’s
movie The Crush, which stars Alicia Silverstone. You can see how I might
have gotten them confused. There’s sexy stuff, there’s dangerous stuff,
there’s obsession, it’s the 90s? How could you know? But now you know.
[End post-production jingle]
Jenny: ​Thank you.
Kristin: ​Anyhow, now we get to my–
Jenny: ​The best thing ever.
Kristin: ​Yeah, I think it’s my favorite scene, with Willow lying. I love it so
much that I recorded the audio so that we can all experience it together.
Here we go.
[Audio clip plays]
Buffy: ​What’s up?
Willow: ​[nervously] Nothing.
Buffy: ​Do you want to hang? We’re cafeteria bound.
Willow: ​I’m gonna do work in the computer lab on school work that
I have, so I cannot hang just now. Hi, Ford.
Ford: ​Morning.
Buffy: ​Okay, Will, ‘fess up.


Willow: ​What?
Buffy: ​Are you drinking coffee again? ‘Cause we’ve talked about this.
Willow: ​[high-pitched nervous laughter] It makes me jumpy. I have
to go… away.
[End audio clip]
Kristin: ​[laughing] Oh my god! Willow.
Jenny: ​This is the best.
Kristin: ​That laugh. It’s an incredible– she has one of my favorite awkward
laughs of all time. There was an episode in Season 1 where she does this
awkward laugh as well, that I remember. It’s like, when her and Xander
have their inside joke–
Jenny: ​Oh, yeah.
Kristin: ​And Buffy isn’t a part of it and she’s just hysterically– ugh, it’s just
great. It’s just great.
Jenny: ​Also, a treasure that you can’t hear in the recording is what she’s
doing with her arms and hands that are sort of clasped in this sort of circle.
And she’s kind of nervously gripping her own hands, but also kind of twisting
her shoulders so that she’s standing kind of like a triumphant Revolutionary
War statue or something?
Kristin: ​Incredible acting.
Jenny:​ Really good.
Kristine:​ Incredible acting by Alyson Hannigan with the sly.
Jenny:​ Praise.
Kristin:​ And then this is the moment where Giles comes in and is like,


[imitating Giles] “Buh-buh-uh, but Buffy, I–” [Jenny laughs] You know, he’s
panicked because he might be taking a night off to have a good time with a
woman that he likes.
Jenny: ​Uh-huh. But don’t worry, she has a beeper thing. Here’s the number.
Kristin: ​Here’s the number and he has– if you want to know what it’s like to
have a conversation with my wife, pay attention to the moment where Buffy
says “go have fun.” And Giles has at least three seconds before the scene
ends where he looks at Buffy, and then he looks away, and then he looks at
Buffy, and he thinks, and then he looks away and he thinks, and then he
looks back at Buffy and then he walks out the door. I was like, if that is not
you– I mean, it’s Jenny. That’s the Jenny way. The Jenny way is the Giles
way.
Jenny: ​Wow. So much me in this episode.
Kristin: ​Yeah, I see a lot of you in a lot of these characters. Ugh, then
fucking Ford and Buffy on their date or whatever the hell this is.
Jenny: ​Whatever it is [makes a spitting sound]– blegh.
Kristin: ​First of all, Ford starts off by saying, “is that more vampires?” Um,
it’s ​are those ​more vampires, Ford. Maybe you should talk better. And for
seconds, he has a fucking stake with him? I hate this guy.
Jenny: ​Yeah.
Kristin: ​I don’t like him. I don’t like him one bit. I don’t know what he’s
about, that he fucking lies.
Jenny: ​He presumes too much, he lies.
Kristin: ​He corners this vampire and says, “give me the information now.”
Here’s where I need to stop us. Because what the fuck is with Ford? Like,
who are his parents? What do ​they ​think? Has he run away? They have a
sick kid, right? They have a sick kid who has left Los Angeles and is just
gone and missing. And I’m gonna follow the arc all the way through here. He
has found a bomb shelter to build a thing in. I’m assuming that Diego has


funded it, because Diego seems very huffy and is like, “the lease is up on
this place man, what are we going to do after that?” So I don’t– the
mechanics or the backstory on Ford is really shaky for me. Where is he
getting the funding and where is he getting the information? How the fuck
does he know about Spike and that he needs to know how to get– it took the
Scoobies this whole time to fi– Spike– just come on. I don’t understand how
this kid is so strong and how this kid is so knowledgeable and how this kid
has just run away from home and no one is looking for him.
Jenny: ​Yeah…
Kristin: ​I just don’t know and then– whatever. I’m taking this to the end
and we’ll talk about this in a more serious way. But like, then he dies and is
buried in Sunnydale?! Why don’t–
Jenny: ​Right.
Kristin: ​Come on. You guys…
Jenny: ​Where are his parents?
Kristin: ​Where are his– where’s his family or anyone that he knew in his
past life?
Jenny: ​Yeah…
Kristin: ​Just, so anyway.
Jenny: ​Mysteries abound.
Kristin: ​My issue– that’s my issue with Ford, the character.
Jenny: ​Okay, then we have Xander, Angel, and Willow. Together.
Kristin: ​Ugh! The dream team.
Jenny: ​So good.
Kristin: ​And this is really the first time we’re seeing them– I mean,


especially with– we’ve seen Angel and Xander have their thing.
Jenny: ​Uh huh.
Kristin: ​Lots of sexual tension awards have gone in their direction.
Jenny: ​Praise.
Kristin: ​But Willow has not really had a standalone relationship with Angel
and certainly them as a trio… this is new territory for them.
Jenny: ​Yeah. And it’s great.​ ​And Xander and Angel have this wonderful old
married couple moment, where Xander calls Angel “dead boy” and Angel
says, “Could you ​not ​call me that?” So huffy, the best.
Kristin: ​Yeah. So mad, so mad.
Jenny: ​Xander and Willow: Not. Dressed. For the Sunset Club.
Kristin: ​No, they’re not and that’s how Chan– Chanterelle?
Jenny: ​Yes, Chanterelle.
Kristin: ​Chanterelle spots them immediately and says, “oh you’re new, I can
tell you’re new. Don’t be ashamed.” She’s so sweet.
Jenny: ​She is so nice even when Angel is like, [imitating Angel] “You’re a
fool.” She’s like, [high-pitched] “Have an open mind, I’m really sweet.”
Kristin: ​This is– but you know, this is a triggering thing for me. This is
really– this moment to me reminded me a lot of conversations that I’ve had
with my extended family members.
Jenny: ​Ahh.
Kristin: ​About things like, you know, abortion rights and so on and so forth,
where– and this election– where, you know, they’ve been so nice but also–
‘cause the setup is Angel is really mean and she is really nice. So you kind of
feel for her. But the truth of the matter is that Angel holds the knowledge


that she’s about to– like, she’s gonna fucking get killed.
Jenny: ​Yeah.
Kristin: ​She has no idea what she’s talking about.
Jenny: ​He’s in touch with reality and she’s not.
Kristin: ​Exactly. And she has this line that I wrote down. “You don’t have to
be so cruel about it. Other viewpoints than your own could be valid, you
know.” And it’s a trigger for me, because this is what everybody has fucking
told me on the other side of the line for the last however many months.
“Hey, agree to disagree” and it’s like, no! You’re putting me at risk, you’re
putting yourselves at risk. What is the tweet that you loved so much that’s
about–
Jenny: ​[laughing] Oh my god.
Kristin: ​Can you say what it is?
Jenny: ​It was something to the effect of: “I never thought jaguars would
eat ​my​ face: quote attributed to woman who voted for Jaguars Eating
People’s Faces Party 2016.”
Kristin: ​[laughs] Right, right. You’re like– I see that I’m in danger, I see
that you could even be in danger. I’m trying to fucking protect you here.
Don’t give me this shit about– you’re so– “it’s just a different viewpoint,
don’t be so cruel.” Like, there are reasons I think that– whatever. I won’t
lose it over it, but I was like, wow, this is really capturing something here.
Because she’s totally clueless. She really– she has no idea what she’s talking
about but she believes so deep–
Jenny: ​Yeah.
Kristin: ​Like, she believes so completely in it.
Jenny: ​In the lonely ones?
Kristin: ​And it’s devastating to see the moment when she realizes [Jenny


sighs] that she was wrong. It really is so sad when she sees Spike and she
recognizes instantly that–
Jenny: ​She’s like “oh fuck.”
Kristin: ​Everything that she thought was true was not true. Anyway, not to
go off on too much of a rant there, but it was a very poignant moment for
me.
Jenny: ​Yeah.
Kristin: ​And yeah, the lonely ones.
Jenny: ​The lonely ones.
Kristin: ​The lonely ones.
Jenny: ​Immediately followed by this fantastic moment where Angel’s going
off. [Kristin laughs] He’s like, I’ve seen enough. I know this kind of people,
they’ve made up these fantasy stories about how vampires are friendly, they
don’t know anything about how vampires really are or what they do or how
they dress. And as he says “how they dress,” a guy who has just descended
the stairs wearing the exact same outfit as Angel–
Kristin: ​[laughing] It’s so good.
Jenny: ​Sort of passes between him and one of the Scoobies.
Kristin: ​Xander gets a ​big ​kick out of it. [Jenny laughs] It’s a really good
moment.
Jenny: ​It’s really great.
Kristin: ​And you know, something that must happen in the next scene is
really important, which is that we know Drusilla, we’ve known Drusilla for a
few episodes now–
Jenny: ​Yeah, yeah.


Kristin: ​But this is the first episode where Buffy and the Scooby Gang in
general learns about Drusilla and about the fact that Drusilla is alive.
Because Giles had thought her dead based on the mythology and the–
whatever, his books.
Jenny: ​Right, angry mob in Prague.
Kristin: ​What a– yeah, angry mob in Prague. [Jenny laughs] So yeah, I
think that’s a big deal and Buffy sees this photo– beautiful derogatype [sp]?
What is that called?
Jenny: ​Wow!
Kristin: ​Right, isn’t that– I don’t know. It’s one of those moments where–
Jenny: ​I think it’s dagu-dagu–
Kristin: ​Daguerreotype?
Jenny: ​Yeah.
Kristin: ​Yeah, derogatype sounds like it’s a bad picture–
Jenny: ​Right right right.
Kristin: ​A picture that’s not representative of the person who is in it.
Anyway…
Jenny: ​She looks great.
Kristin: ​It’s a nice photo. And we learn– and I’m skipping a little ahead here
but I think it fits with this– we learn Drusilla’s backstory and as it relates to
Angel.
Jenny: ​Yes.
Kristin: ​This is a big fucking deal. BFD, guys. Angel confesses or whatever
you want to call it to Buffy, that he was– you know, he was really obsessed
with Drusilla, her purity, her chasteness. And that not only did he sire her,


but he drove her insane by killing everyone that she loved, sending her
literally to a nunnery and then on the day that she was supposed to become
a nun, turned her into a demon.
Jenny: ​Yeah.
Kristin: ​So this is important and this– and it’s important for a lot of reasons
and it will continue to be important. But I think it’s clarifying if you’re just
watching now, in terms of why Angel would let Drusilla in that moment on
the playground.
Jenny: ​Right, right. Guilt, guilt, guilt.
Kristin: ​So much guilt. Like, he knows that vampires are bad. But also, he
knows the reason that Drusilla is crazy and a vampire is all because of his
actions. And there’s one of these moments, and we’ll talk about this more as
we get towards the end of the episode, but one of these things where: how
do you know what is good and what is bad? Things are fucking complicated.
Jenny: ​Mhmm.
Kristin: ​Drusilla is not just evil. Drusilla had a life, she had everyone that
she loved taken away from her. You know? It’s complicated, it’s really
complicated.
Jenny: ​You know what else is complicated?
Kristin: ​What else?
Jenny: ​The back door of the Summers’ house is always cracked!
Kristin: ​It is, it’s true.
Jenny: ​It’s always open! [Kristin laughs] Listen, I live in Southern California
and everyone’s like, “oh, there’s no bugs compared to the East Coast,”
whatever. There’s not, like, a neverending cloud of mosquitoes that you
have to wade through, say, in the summer. But if we leave the door of our
house open–


Kristin: ​One loud fly always gets in.
Jenny:​ Immediately.
Kristin: ​Immediately.
Jenny: ​So there’s– I’m not buying the Summers’ house leaving the door
cracked, especially when it’s dark outside, it’s light inside–
Kristin: ​Especially with that fruit bowl.
Jenny: ​[laughing] And the fruit bowl.
Kristin: ​Can we talk about the fruit bowl for just a hot second?
Jenny: ​One of every– it’s like the half of a fruit ark.
Kristin: ​Yeah, it’s like they were like, “what should we put”– the set
designer was like, “we need a fruit bowl. Should it be bananas, apples,
pears, kiwis?” And they were like, put one of everything! [laughter] Just go
for it. Also, let us not forget–
Jenny: ​Oh my god.
Kristin: ​In the library scene, it is revealed what Giles has been doing with
his time this evening with Jenny Calendar. [Jenny laughs] He has been at a
fucking monster truck rally.
Jenny: ​Hell yeah!
Kristin: ​Whoever you are– if it was you, Joss, I give you all the credit. If it
was another writer in the room– whoever it was who was like, “I know”.
Jenny: ​That’s exactly what Jenny Calendar wants to do in her spare time.
Kristin: ​And it’s exactly where every single person who watches this show
wants to imagine Giles. [Jenny laughs] You know? It’s just great.
Jenny: ​Yeah.


Kristin: ​And then, so Giles– if it’s okay, we’ll go back to the library for a
second.
Jenny: ​Yeah, yes.
Kristin: ​Because Giles is– right, monster trucks, Drusilla, we see the
picture. But then this vampire, who Ford has said he has killed, runs through
the library, steals a book, and runs out the library. But by the way, the
library has so many ways to get in and out.
Jenny: ​Yeah.
Kristin: ​They should work on that, they know what they’re up against. Don’t
you think that they should–
Jenny: ​Yeah, narrow down the ins and outs.
Kristin: ​Yeah. But Giles is ​incensed​. He’s so–
Jenny: ​“My book!”
Kristin: ​[laughing] “My book, they took one of my books.” It’s just…
Jenny: ​He’s so bummed. And I get that.
Kristin: ​So good. Yeah, I get it too.
Jenny: ​Also, Jenny Calendar’s reaction shot to the vampire, so dramatic.
Kristin: ​So dramatic. Speaking of dramatic, I believe we then go to Spike’s
lair or whatever we’re calling it.
Jenny: ​Uh huh.
Kristin: ​Drusilla is talking to this bird. [laughter] I just– if I hadn’t already
given her the jingle earlier, we’d give it to her again right now because she
just wants the bird to live. Why is the bird not talking to her, why is the bird
not standing up on its two little bird feet?


Jenny: ​Uh huh.
Kristin: ​She doesn’t get it, and Spike has this moment with her that is– oh
god, I love their love. I love their– you know what, maybe we should stop
and do a Sexual Tension Award while I’m talking about loving their love?
Jenny: ​Is it a three-way sexual tension award between Drusilla, Spike, and
the bird?
Kristin: ​And the bird. Well, I don’t know. I think for it to be a three-way, the
passion has to be felt in a triangulated way…
Jenny: ​I can confirm that that is not… necessary.
Kristin: ​[laughing] For– what are you inferring?!
Jenny: ​Nothing, gotta go!
Kristin: ​[laughing] Alright, well if you’re not gonna give us the reasoning,
I’ll just have to believe you.
Jenny: ​I just feel like there could be three people–
Kristin: ​Uh huh.
Jenny: ​And in order for them to all [Kristin laughs] earn a sexual tension
award together, they don’t necessarily need to feel the attraction in equal
measure in all directions.
Kristin: ​Okay, and actually, maybe it adds to the sexual tension award that
Spike feels a deep disdain towards the bird.
Jenny: ​Right, right. Twisted.
Kristin: ​Yeah, very twisted. Very Spike and Drusilla. Alright, Jenny.
[laughter] Since you’ve revealed some personal aspects of your life–
Jenny: ​What?! No, no, no.


Kristin: ​To get us here to this Sexual Tension Award, I’ll give it to you and
to Spike, the bird, and Drusilla.
Jenny: ​Then we’ve got this ridiculously bright sunshiny school campus shot
where Buffy’s like, [whistling sound] and Ford’s like, [stomping sound]–
Kristin: ​[laughing] Yeah.
Jenny: ​And he’s like, “Buffy, got any plans tonight?” and she’s like, “none
that I know of” and he’s like, “meet me” and she’s like, “when?”
Kristin: ​And the camera– the camera’s spinning around.
Jenny: ​Just like relax!
Kristin: ​It’s a very– and I don’t even know if this is accurate, but it
reminded me of I Know What You Did Last Summer?
Jenny: ​Yes!
Kristin: ​Right? Which has just happened.
Jenny: ​Right, it just reminded me of any– like, Scream, any teen horror–
Kristin: ​But that spinny camera move, because you know, what’s incredible
about camera angles and cinematography in general is that if they had acted
this scene and the lighting had been different and the cameras had been
different, it would not have had that feeling at all. They really– the way they
deliver the lines to each other is pretty mono– not monotone, but there’s not
a lot of creepiness inherent in the way they’re talking to each other. It’s
much more communicated by the camera spinning and the lighting being
very severe–
Jenny: ​And the music.
Kristin: ​And the music, exactly. So yes, they set a time to meet, it’s like a
showdown. You know? “See you here at nine,” except that they’re
pretending it’s date two.


Jenny: ​Uh huh. But instead, Buffy goes to the Sunset Club around 6:25pm
and then the sun sets at around 6:27pm.
Kristin: ​[laughing] 6:27.
Jenny: ​Perfect timing!
Kristin: ​She should really think about these things, like, you know…
Jenny: ​Oh, yeah.
Kristin: ​I know she’s got a lot on her mind, but she knows that she
operates– you know, she has a particular– I guess she has school though.
School really cuts into when she can be doing a lot of this work safely,
‘cause the vampires can’t come out. Something we skipped over because we
talked about Drusilla’s backstory as a separate thing, is this moment
between– [Jenny inhales sharply] Angel and Buffy. This is a really good
underline to the complicated nature of their relationship, because they don’t
get to have the moment that many of us have in our relationships where we
say “I love you” for the first time and it’s simple. I mean, it’s never simple,
but at least it’s usually just rooted in being in love. This is not that. Angel
says, “do you love me?”
Jenny: ​‘Cause I have to tell you something terrible.
Kristin: ​Right, and Buffy says, “I love you. I don’t know if I trust you.” So
this is like–
Jenny: ​And he’s like, “maybe you shouldn’t do either.”
Kristin: ​Wow. Loaded, it’s loaded. It’s a hefty moment, you know?
Jenny: ​Yeah.
Kristin: ​And it’s a big moment, I think saying– everyone knows, I think,
that saying “I love you” to someone for the first time is a pretty loaded
moment.


Jenny: ​Mmhmm.
Kristin: ​Do you remember when I said–
Jenny: ​[awkwardly] Up bup bup bup bup.
Kristin: ​Do you remember? Do you remember? Do you remember?
Jenny: ​Bup bup bup. Moving right along.
Kristin: ​That’s how it went, too. That was how– [laughter]
Jenny: ​Kristin was like, “I love you” and I was like, [loudly] “Uhhhhh…”
Kristin: ​That’s not true, she said “I love you” back.
Jenny: ​Okay!
Kristin: ​And it was in London.
Jenny: ​Oh my god!
Kristin: ​[yelling] And it was great!
Jenny: ​Enough! [Kristin laughs] Enough, woman!
Kristin: ​You’re all–
Jenny: ​This is nobody’s business!
Kristin: ​You’re all welcome. This was so much fun for me and I think so
much fun for you at home.
Jenny: ​That’s why you wanted to include this part of the episode.
Kristin: ​No, I didn’t even think– I didn’t think of it until right now.
Jenny: ​Ugh, I felt it coming from a mile away. [Kristin laughs] I was like,
how long is it going to take her to get around…


Kristin: ​[laughs] And it’s great ‘cause you can’t go anywhere. You got
headphones on, you’re wired to the spot.
Jenny: ​I hate you.
Kristin: ​You’re stuck, it’s great. I’ve got a lot of power in this podcasting
world of ours.
Jenny: ​Anyway.
Kristin: ​Anyway. Oh! The other thing that I wanted to say about this scene,
which I think is important in a set kind of way, is the scene between Buffy
and Angel ends with this shot from outside the house through a curtain and
they’re sitting at the dining room table.
Jenny: ​Beautiful.
Kristin: ​It’s a beautiful shot and it may be– it’s either the first time or one
of the first times that we’ve seen the dining room table from outside in this
way and that spot in Buffy’s house is a very important spot. It’s a very
powerful spot, at least in my one time through the season, that that’s a very
meaningful place and so– you know, I think establishing, establishing,
establishing.
Jenny: ​Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: ​So on and so forth. So anyhow, they say they love each other. No
one in this room knows what that is like.
Jenny: ​No.
Kristin: ​‘Cause we have never said that to each other.
Jenny: ​Gross. Ugh.
Kristin: ​And then another chapter of lies is sort of resolved? Not really
resolved though? Buffy comes into school and Willow and Xander are like–


Jenny: ​Right.
Kristin: ​“Hey, hey, Buffy…”
Jenny: ​“Hey…”
Kristin: ​“Did Angel talk to you?” And you can see that Buffy is visibly upset.
Jenny: ​Yeah.
Kristin: ​And in the exchange, honestly, between Angel and Buffy too, she’s
sort of like, “this is a conspiracy, what is going on?” That feeling– I’ve been
there before where you find out–
Jenny: ​All your friends are talking about something about you, without you.
Kristin: ​Yes. And you don’t know?
Jenny: ​Mmhmm.
Kristin: ​That’s a cutting thing, it really is. It goes deep and I don’t think I
ever had the experience of that happening when it was also surrounding
somebody who I was in love with. Where like, somebody I was in love with
and my friends were all on a particular page and had intentionally kept me
out for better or for worse. It’s hard. And then... Buffy gets locked in the
dungeon.
Jenny: ​Locked in the dungeon. She’s all like, “You’re all about to be the
all-you-can-eat moron bar. You don’t know anything about vampires.” Then
Ford’s like, “I have a nest of tumors liquefying my brain.” [Kristin laughs] A
phrase that has stuck with me since the first time I heard it.
Kristin: ​Yeah, which is why I laugh. Not about– I was not laughing at Ford’s
tumors. I was laughing at who I’m married to. [Jenny laughs] And that you
know the exact phrasing of that line.
Jenny: ​Yeah.
Kristin: ​Yeah, so there’s a big plot twist here. Where, again, what is bad


and what is not bad? Certainly, wanting to– and this is taking a line from
Buffy, but mass murder in exchange for your own life is never justifiable. But
it does add a layer of complexity to what Ford is doing here. Ford’s not just
after this for fun. Ford knows that he has not very long to live and so you
know, it’s hard. It’s hard to view the character of Ford now as only bad.
Jenny: ​Right.
Kristin: ​Right? Also, there’s an interesting exchange between Ford and
Buffy where she says– you know, he’s like, “I’m gonna become a vampire,
I’m gonna become one of them” and she says, you know, “that isn’t what
happens. You die and a demon takes up a place in your body and
remembers your life, but it is not you.” And that’s important. That’s a piece
of– I don’t know if you want to call it the mythology or whatever, but I just
think it’s important for us to remember the way vampires are portrayed in
this series as a whole–
Jenny: ​Right.
Kristin: ​When they are a vampire, they are not the person they were.
Jenny: ​Unless they’ve been re-ensouled by a curse.
Kristin: ​Unless they’ve been re-ensouled of course. [laughing] Also, so
Spike gets there. Spike arrives and I always love a Spike arrival. It’s always
done with [Jenny laughs] lots of fanfare and the particular breed of fanfare
we get in this episode is that he walks in, he looks at Chanterelle and grabs
her choker and rips it off of her body. [laughter] And throws it on the floor.
For no reason!
Jenny: ​Yeah, that’s–
Kristin: ​No, actually– I’m sorry. I just realized that the reason of course is
that he has to feed off of her.
Jenny: ​Yeah but like, it wasn’t like the choker was taking up her whole
neck. It was thick but it wasn’t that thick.
Kristin: ​Right, his teeth would probably–


Jenny: ​I get it but like, oh boy.
Kristin: ​We watched Planet Earth the other day. We watched a tiger eating
part of a deer or something and the tiger kept getting the fur in its mouth.
[Jenny laughs] So I picture– Spike doesn’t want that kind of humiliation, you
know?
Jenny: ​[laughing] Yeah.
Kristin: ​Having a choker stuck to his tooth, it’s just a little too much.
Jenny: ​Mmhmm, so embarrassing.
Kristin: ​But yeah. Then we see this moment where Chanterelle realizes “oh
fuck, I’ve been wrong.” They all realize “oh fuck.”
Jenny: ​Yeah and then every vampire is attacking every person.
Kristin: ​Yeah, one per body.
Jenny: ​And Buffy’s looking around like, “oh fuck” and then she sees, up on
the balcony, one lone vampire.
Kristin: ​Yeah. Not smart, Spike.
Jenny: ​Yeah and that doesn’t–
Kristin: ​That’s just a big gap in Spike’s plan.
Jenny: ​Yeah but it just seemed foolproof, I guess, right? And there were so
many of them…
Kristin: ​Right. But he didn’t– they didn’t have– it wasn’t like, you know,
when you play football and you’re like, “okay we’re going to do this and then
we’re going to do that and then we’re going to–” They didn’t have a plan!
Jenny: ​Not looking ahead, right.


Kristin: ​Yeah, they didn’t get enough steps ahead of themselves. Also,
perhaps he thought that Drusilla would be okay up on the balcony and didn’t
realize that Buffy could fly. [laughs]
Jenny: ​Yeah, Buffy can jump 20 feet up in the air.
Kristin: ​She– that jump!
Jenny: ​Yeah, well you’ll remember in “The Harvest,” maybe, when Buffy’s
leaving campus and Principal Flutie’s like, “Leaving campus?” and she’s like,
“oh no, never!” And he locks the gate and then she jumps straight up over
the school fence.
Kristin: ​Also– yes, I remember that. I also remember the episode where we
see Angel for the first time when Buffy jumps up all the way up to that pole
above their heads–
Jenny: ​And does the handstand on the pole.
Kristin: ​Buffy’s powerful. And of course, Buffy has Drusilla and so nothing
matters, you know?
Jenny: ​[squealing] I love it!
Kristin: ​I know, I love it too. I have in all caps: “Spike loves Dru” just
written in my notebook [Jenny laughs] because I– it’s just amazing. Spike
has goals in life, he wants to kill the slayer, it’s really important to him but
nothing– ​nothing ​comes close to his feelings toward Drusilla. And so Drusilla
is in danger, he’s like, everybody get the fuck off and get the fuck out.
Jenny: ​Mhmm.
Kristin: ​Just stop what you’re doing. And Buffy, I think, knowing that she is
outnumbered, makes the decision to make this move where she gets
everyone, almost everyone, out to safety, throws Drusilla at Spike. Which is
also interesting.
Jenny: ​Interesting that she doesn’t just dust Drusilla?


Kristin: ​Dust Drusilla, leave, and close the door, right?
Jenny: ​I think– you know what I think? I was thinking about this. I think it
was like, if she dusted Drusilla, she would have lost the time she’d need to
get out the door and close it.
Kristin: ​To get out the door? I thought maybe it had something to do–
because Spike and Buffy are establishing a relationship.
Jenny: ​Uh huh.
Kristin: ​And I did feel that maybe it had to do with the fact that she said ‘if
you do this thing for me, I will do this thing for you–
Jenny: ​Right.
Kristin: ​And if she had dusted Drusilla, it would have broken all manner of
trust between them? Which sounds weird.
Jenny: ​Yeah, but she didn’t lie.
Kristin: ​Oh, snap.
Jenny: ​She did. Not. Lie.
Kristin: ​She did not lie. And so she gets out, but she leaves Ford behind.
Jenny: ​So this is, like, the first time…
Kristin: ​Yeah, I mean, it’s the first time that Buffy has some influence in a
human being dying.
Jenny: ​Well, there are people she hasn’t been able to save, right?
Kristin: ​Right, right. But this is the first time that it’s very clear that she
made the decision to leave him in there and it’s– again, here’s another one
of these fucking moments that’s super layered. Because he says– Ford says
in the Sunset Club, “I’m not gonna die having lost my hair, having lost my
strength– I don’t want that,” you know? So there is an element of, like,


assisted– it’s not assisted suicide. But it’s assisted death here for him– but
there’s just a lot. There’s a lot of pieces. But it is the first time that she has
a direct hand in a human being dying, that is not just by her not saving
them.
Jenny: ​Yeah and that raises some kind of morality question.
Kristin: ​Of course. I mean, gosh. If you want to talk about morality
debates, there’s a huge morality debate around assisted suicide and people
being able to or not being able to have the ownership of their own person to
say “I would like to die now,” when they’re super ill or suffering or what
have you. So, you know, not to put too, too much on this. But this is a big
moment and it’s given that space in the episode. There’s a lot of weight on
the moment when Buffy says, “we have to come back” and they all say
“why?” And she says “For the body.” Or does she say “for the body”?
Jenny: ​Mmhmm.
Kristin: ​Yeah. With that little scratch on her head. It’s real stuff. This
episode ends with– you know, the episode ends with a scene that describes
everything we’ve been seeing in the entire episode–
Jenny: ​Right.
Kristin: ​And in the entire series. It’s a really pivotal moment when Ford–
unbeknownst to us as to why he is being buried in the Sunnydale cemetery
but–
Jenny: ​I wonder if Buffy went back for the body, buried him in the cemetery
because in order for a vampire to change–
Kristin: ​Ohhh…
Jenny: ​They have to be buried in consecrated dirt? I have no idea. And then
waited so that he wouldn’t be shipped home to his parents and become a
vampire living in L.A.? I wonder?
Kristin: ​Right, that makes sense. But now he’s dust so how are they going
to explain that? Whatever.


Jenny: ​Difficult to say.
Kristin: ​One day they’ll make the series “Behind the Scenes of Buffy the
Vampire Slayer.” [Jenny laughs] But this exchange between Giles and Buffy–
it has to be one of the more meaningful exchanges in the series, right? It
underlines ​everything ​that is to come and that has even gone past in the
series, that things are hard, that high school is fucking hard, this time in
your life when you’re learning that it’s not just good or bad, it’s not just A or
B, that things are really complicated. And Buffy is saying these words, you
know? I can’t tell anymore, I can’t tell what’s good and what’s bad anymore,
things are getting more confusing. And she asks Giles, “Does it ever get
easy?” Right? And then Giles is like, “What do you want me to say to that?”
And she says, “Lie to me.” And he says, “It’s very simple. Yes.” [Jenny
laughs] The villains are always wearing capes and you know? He doesn’t say
that, but he–
Jenny: ​Uh, how dare you? How dare you cast–
Kristin: ​Oh, capes? [laughing]
Jenny: ​Yes, in such a unflattering light?
Kristin: ​[laughing] Sorry, Jenny. But you know, this is beautiful. It’s really
beautiful and we’re going to see so much of this as the series continues of
how do you tell what’s good and how do you tell what’s not good? And this is
what we live in our day-to-day lives.
Jenny: ​Mmhmm. It’s just really beautiful. We’re seeing all of these
relationships that we’ve seen built and developed, this network has
expanded, and the ropes that bind individuals to one another have
thickened. And now that that foundation is established… we begin to have
reasons to call into question, what is this relationship and what does that
relationship mean and what does it mean when this person lies to that
person?
Kristin: ​Yeah, it’s no longer, there’s a slayer and there’s a vampire and it’s
very clear what needs to happen.


Jenny: ​Yeah.
Kristin: ​That has been tossed to the side and now we are in relationships
where we don’t know. We don’t know what we want even, right? ‘Cause the
big bad right now is Spike and Drusilla, and I don’t know how you all are
feeling, but I surely do not want them to go away.
Jenny: ​No, I want them to stay forever.
Kristin: ​I want them to stay forever too and that’s hard. We’ve saying– we
love Spike and Drusilla’s love, but their love is rooted in killing people.
Jenny: ​Yes, yes. It’s complicated.
Kristin: ​It’s hard, it’s very hard.
Jenny: ​Does it ever get easier, Kristin?
Kristin: ​What do you want me to say to you, Jenny?
Jenny: ​[singing] Lie to me. [normal speech] Lie, lie to me.
Kristin: ​Yes, Jenny, it gets easier. Decisions become clear–
Jenny: ​Oh.
Kristin: ​You can tell who’s good and who’s bad.
Jenny: ​Thank you.
Kristin: ​And you’ll be okay.
Jenny: ​[gasps] Hooray!
Kristin: ​The sky is clear.
Jenny: ​It sure is.
Kristin: ​What a journey we have to go on together.


Jenny: ​Can’t wait for the rest of it! Thank you so much for listening. I am
Jenny Owen Youngs and when I’m not watching ​Buffy ​and making this
podcast, I write songs and record them. You can hear some of them at
jennyowenyoungs.com/buffering and you can give me a shout on Twitter at
@jennyowenyoungs.
Kristin: ​And I’m Kristin Russo and when I’m not watching ​Buffy​, I am
helping LGBTQ young people and their families with my work at
everyoneisgay.com and mykidisgay.com. If you’d like to know what’s on my
brain at all hours of the day, you can follow me on Twitter at
@kristinnoeline. K-R-I-S-T-I-N-N-O-E-L-I-N-E.
Jenny: ​As we mentioned at the top of the show, we have two upcoming
online Buffering events. You can get all the info about our upcoming events
as a duo or any upcoming events that we have individually by visiting
bufferingthevampireslayer.com and clicking on Events. Follow us on Twitter
at @bufferingcast or drop us an email at
bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin: ​If you like what we do, there are three really great ways that you
can support us. The first being that you can become a patron of ours over at
patreon.com/bufferingcast, you can become a $1, $5, or $10 a month
patron and there are super fun rewards for all of those levels. This week, our
$10 patrons got a bonus mailbag episode, our $5 patrons every week get
the mp3 file of the song that we have recorded, and our $1 patrons this
week got the spoiler delivered to them…[Jenny laughs] $1 or more,
everyone on Patreon got to finally find out what Jenny spoiled during the live
taping of “Reptile Boy.” So it’s a very fun place to be. If you can, join us
over there.
If you don’t have the funds to support us, that is totally cool. You can go on
over to iTunes and leave us a review, especially if you like it. And last but
certainly not least, we have a store which you can find by going to our
website bufferingthevampireslayer.com and clicking on Store. We have
T-shirts, we have enamel pins, we have all manner of fun things and you can
go on over there and deck yourselves out to your Buffy heart is content.
Jenny: ​[laughing] Deck yourselves out. [Kristin laughs] Good gravy. Alright


well, that about does it for us. Thank you so much for listening. ‘Til next
time…
Jenny and Kristin: ​Awooooooooooo!
[Jenny performing “Lie to Me” off the album “Songs from Season Two” by
Buffering the Vampire Slayer]
Late night route patrol
I see you but you don't know
That girl looks strange to me
But you look like you've known her for a century
I'll ask and you'll reply
“Where were you last night?”
You lie to me
You lie to me
You don't seem the kind
Yet I know you went behind
My back, I can't believe
Never thought you'd do this to me
The reasons that you say
Don't take away the pain
You lied to me
You lied to me
You lied to me
You lied to me
Now things get less clear
Thought I understood what was happening here
But the lies pile up so high
Can't dig down to you though I try
To trust you with my heart
Will it always be so hard?
Please lie to me
Lie to me


Please lie to me
Lie to me

