Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 5.11: Triangle
[CHIME]
Jenny:​ Hey, everybody! Hello!
Kristin:​ [clears throat]
Jenny:​ [clears throat] Before—[talking through teeth] oh my god. [Kristin laughs]
Before we get started with this week's episode… [normal voice] we just have to tell
you a couple things.
Kristin:​ Jenny's—listen, we're both really excited about Trixie, but wow. Jenny
pre—
Jenny:​ I'm having! A time!
Kristin:​ Yeah. A time. So let's get them the news so we can get into this and you
can hear Jenny have—
Jenny:​ Oh my god.
Kristin:​ A meltdown in the intro.
Jenny:​ Yeah. Yeah. Okay, so hey, this Saturday, if you're one of our Patreon
supporters, I will be playing some Buffering songs in a little streaming concert
format, this very Saturday, in the secret Facebook group for Patrons only. So
please, join me if you're part of our Patreon community. And if you're not yet, get
on board and come party with me on Saturday! Please.
Kristin:​ Hell yeah!
Jenny:​ Requests accepted, respectfully.
Kristin:​ Wow. And you can—if you are like, how do I get in on this? You can go to
bufferingthevampireslayer.com, click on Patreon and all of our Patrons, any level of
giving, are popped on over there into the secret Facebook group. So you can join
before Saturday if you wanna hear Jenny sing the beautiful library of songs created
for this podcast. How exciting.
Jenny:​ Beautiful.


Kristin:​ Do you wanna know something else exciting, Jenny?
Jenny:​ I do! Tell me right now!
Kristin:​ You already know, but—
Jenny:​ Oh yeah.
Kristin:​ None of you listening do. Which is that, guess what? Chicago, we're
coming to your city! This is a tease—
Jenny:​ Ahh!
Kristin:​ This is just a tease, because you will get the full details and how to get
tickets next episode, two weeks from today. Checkpoint, which we are doing with
Ira Madison III, how fucking exciting. We love Ira.
Jenny:​ Mm-hmm, mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Kristin:​ In the intro of that episode, we will tell you all about the venue. We will tell
you the ticketing links, all of that, all of that, all of that. Please know that if you are
a Patron, you will get the ticketing links and the code to advance purchase tickets
at 10 AM Central on March 4. That's the day that that episode goes live. If you are
not a Patron, tickets will go up on March 6, which is Friday, at 10 AM. Oh my god.
Chicago!
Jenny:​ [talking like a radio announcer] Speaking of joining at any level! [Kristin
laughs] It's time for the Sexual Tension Award results from Into the Woods! Are
you ready?
Kristin:​ [laughing] I'm ready.
Jenny:​ Ahh. Get some tissues, because in fourth place… [Kristin laughs] [pause]
Oh, the implications of "get some tissues" in this context.
Kristin:​ Oh, wow.
Jenny:​ It's Riley and Buffy, with 2%! That has to be the smallest percent anybody's
ever received in the Sexual Tension Awards, right?
Kristin:​ ​Two​ percent! Two—
Jenny:​ Two percent!


Kristin:​ No, no, somebody got 1%—somebody ​has​ gotten 1%. I can't remember.
It was recently, actually.
Jenny:​ Hmmm.
Kristin:​ And I have a feeling it was also Riley and somebody else. [laughs]
Jenny:​ Oh, poor Riley. Poor sweet Riley!
Kristin:​ Sorry, bud.
Jenny:​ He deserved so much better. Well! Shockingly. Shockingly, in third place,
with only 19% of the vote, it's Spike and Buffy. Okay, interesting. Now you're
keeping me on my toes, people!
Kristin:​ Mm-hmm.
Jenny:​ Then, wow.
Kristin:​ Mm-hmm!
Jenny:​ Thank you. In second place, with 30% of the vote, it's [singsong] Spike and
Riley, Spike, Spike and Riley. Spike and—
Kristin:​ Is their couple name… Spiley or Rike?
Jenny:​ Ooh, I like Rike.
Kristin:​ Yeah, Rike.
Jenny:​ R-I-K-E. Okay, and then. In first place. Something for everyone, 49% of
the vote. It's the three-way combination of Riley, Spike and Buffy. You're welcome,
hurray! Enjoy.
Kristin:​ Well-deserved. We love to see a throuple. We just love it.
Jenny:​ Mm-hmm.
Kristin:​ Thank you for voting the way we wanted you to this week, everyone.
[laughs]
Jenny:​ Good. Job.


Kristin:​ Jenny, um… last episode, our special episode with Marc Blucas. I teased a
bit that I was going to be changing the format of Spooky News for a few episodes.
Jenny:​ I'm ready.
Kristin:​ Are you ready?
[SPOOKY NEWS jingle plays]
Spooky news!
Kristin:​ Okay, everyone. This is a story that I wrote on November 30, 1992. I
believe that that means—
Jenny:​ Oh my god!
Kristin:​ Yes?
Jenny:​ Just eight days… [Kristin laughs] after I turned… eleven.
Kristin:​ Eleven. And I was—it was actually that magical time of year, when you and
I were both—
Jenny:​ Ha!
Kristin:​ Eleven.
Jenny:​ Right, right.
Kristin:​ So, um, I'm going to split this up into a few pieces, leaving you hanging.
And in the words of Jenny a few episodes ago, it's kind of like a podcast-ducken
happening here. It's a little mini—
Jenny:​ Wow.
Kristin:​ Spooky News podcast. Are you ready?
Jenny:​ I'm ready.
Kristin:​ The Death of Old Man Seaver. [clears throat] "Ouch!" I said, as I got
squeezed into the bus seat with two other people. [Jenny starts laughing quietly]
The warm smell of fake leather mixed in with a faint smell of body odor, and I
desperately wanted to get off the bus. After what seemed like years, the bus


stopped at my house and I pushed my way through the bus crowd. As I made my
way towards the door, I saw a face peeking out from a bush that was right next to
my house. If it were—
Jenny:​ [laughing] A lot of people, like, stand up in the aisles of your bus every
time it stops? [laughter] You have to elbow your way out?
Kristin:​ Excuse me! Excuse me.
Jenny:​ Sorry.
Kristin:​ I'm telling a story.
Jenny:​ [laughing] Okay.
Kristin:​ Please interrupt me at any point, because there's a lot of points in the
future when I think you'll wanna interrupt me. [clears throat] If it were a stranger,
I don't think I would have even begun to tell you about this story. It is a story
about the many horrors I witnessed only two years ago.
Jenny:​ Mmm. At the tender age of ten!
Kristin:​ It had all started while I was in fifth grade. I was at a birthday party, and
we were all sitting around the fireplace, telling spooky stories. Then someone said,
"Let's tell the one about Old Man Seaver." [Jenny laughs] And for some strange
reason, they all looked at me.
Jenny:​ The titular Seaver.
Kristin:​ [laughs] "W-w-why are you looking at m-m-me?" I asked, in total shock.
Jenny:​ [laughs] Oh my…
Kristin:​ [laughing] It's all written out, I'm just reading it verbatim. "Well," said
Tanya, one of my friends. "See, the story sort of took place in your new home."
Parenthetical—
Jenny:​ Whaaaat!
Kristin:​ [laughs] Parenthetical, I had just moved from Pennsylvania seventeen
months ago. Seventeen months ago! [laughs]
Jenny:​ [laughs] It would be improper to round up to a year and a half.


Kristin:​ [laughs] Okay, this is the—the very end of the first segment here. [clears
throat] Uh, "What?!" I screamed. No way could a horror story take place in ​my
house, I thought. Tanya continued. "See, an old man named William Seaver used to
live in your house until… well, until he passed away." And that's how the story
began. [laughs]
Jenny:​ O… kay!
Kristin:​ Tune in in two weeks for your next installment of this horror story that I
wrote when Jenny and I were both eleven years old.
Jenny:​ Great.
Kristin:​ [laughing] That has been… your Spooky News.
[SPOOKY NEWS jingle plays]
Spooky news!
Jenny:​ Well! I don't know how I could possibly go on after that, but I'll try to be
brave. You may have thought to yourselves, “Jenny and Kristin are probably done
making merch and selling it and there's no more Buffering shirts to be had, woe is
me.” Wrong! Wrong. [Kristin laughs] We still have shirts! Including a brand new
design by Cheyne Gallarde that is ​so s
​ pectacular. It's the frickin' snake. It's… the
frickin' snake with the tiny arms. And— [both laugh] help, jump in.
Kristin:​ Uh, yes. The snake, the snake with the tiny arms, on a shirt, for you.
Bufferingthevampireslayer.com, just click on Shop. [laughs]
Jenny:​ Yeah, we got other stuff too, but that's really the crown jewel at the
moment.
Kristin:​ You're distracted, Jenny, because you just wanna get to Trixie. As do we
all, so…
Jenny:​ I can't… take it!
Kristin:​ Let's just go. Let's go.
Jenny:​ This is the most perfect conversation that's ever happened, and also my
favorite howl of the entire series.
[Buffering theme plays]


Jenny:​ Hello! And welcome to what will certainly be the greatest ever episode of
Buffering the Vampire Slayer. [laughter] A podcast where we're watching and
discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, one at a time, spoiler-free,
keeping our cool! I'm Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin:​ I am Kristin Russo. This week, we are discussing Season 5, Episode 11,
Triangle. We're in a triangle right now, as a matter of fact. But we're not gonna talk
about it yet! [Trixie laughs] You don't even know! You don't even know who's
laughing. You don't know! Stay tuned at the end of this podcast every week for an
original song, written by Jenny, recapping the Buffy episode we are discussing.
Jenny:​ [loudly] Triangle was written by Jane Espenson and directed by Christopher
Hibler and it originally aired on January 9, 2001.
Kristin:​ Jenny's just gonna shout the whole time. [laughter]
Jenny:​ I'm trying to be ​cool!​ Uh…
Kristin:​ Why don't you introduce our guest before your head explodes, and then I'll
say what the episode's about? [laughter]
Jenny:​ On this blessed—okay, you've already identified the iconic laugh. [laughter]
There is but one… in all the world. Uh, she alone… has brought you and the globe
so much joy on Rupaul's Drag Race, via my favorite thing to ever look at and listen
to at the same time, called—
Kristin:​ I just—wait, pause, pause, please. 'Cause I need them to have the visual
that, like, when Jenny gets at her peak excitement, she covers her eyes, because
like a cat, she thinks, like, we can't see her.
Jenny:​ No one can see me!
Trixie:​ I think her eyes are rolling back.
Kristin:​ Yeah, yeah. So sorry, continue. I just wanted them to picture you properly.
Jenny:​ [getting increasingly excited] This is a… intimate moment. [laughter] You've
seen her on… uhh! [laughter] Uh, you've seen a shiny new documentary called
[high-pitched] Moving Parts! You've seen her everywhere! And anywhere. She plays
the autoharp! [Trixie laughs] And she's here with us today, and I will not survive,
it's Trixie Mattel!


[everybody cheers]
Kristin:​ Wow!
Trixie:​ Thank you!
Kristin:​ Congratulations on completing that introduction. Holy shit.
Trixie:​ Wow.
Kristin:​ Thank you for being here.
Trixie:​ Thank you for filming just a few blocks from my house. [Jenny laughs]
Kristin:​ Yeah. Anything—anything for you.
Trixie:​ So if any real fans out there wanna murder all three of us, it's just two
stops. [laughter]
Jenny:​ Now's the time.
Trixie:​ Two stops.
Kristin:​ Yep, we're right here. All in the same room.
Trixie:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ Whew!
Kristin:​ You're trying out—you were telling us before we started recording that
you're trying out a new wig for the tour that you're about to go on. Is that—
Trixie:​ Yeah, I'm really trying to go above and beyond for the new tour. So I'm—I
designed, with my wig stylist, a style of wig that has basically, like, a snap cap?
Like, there's a base wig and then it has a bunch of wigs that quick change based on
what's on it. It's basically inspired by—do you remember that doll from the 70s,
[sings] "Beautiful Christy—Christy has beautiful hair, that grows—"
Kristin:​ No.
Trixie:​ There was this doll that you could pull her ponytail and it would grow.
[Kristin gasps, Jenny laughs] So the wigs for the tour are inspired by that.


Kristin:​ That is… some Spooky News—
Jenny:​ Wait. Could you then retract the hair?
Trixie:​ Yeah, you could then wind the hair back into her head.
Jenny:​ [laughing] Hoo-ooh!
Kristin:​ Like, she had a dial on her back, or you like, spun her arm around and—
Trixie:​ She had a dial.
Kristin:​ Okay.
Jenny:​ Oh my god.
Trixie:​ So you could point it to her feet and like, brush it. And then you could be
like, short again, and make it a bob.
Kristin:​ Wow. Kinda into it.
Trixie:​ Yeah, I mean, it's a very innovative doll. Kinda dumb, I have three of 'em,
but. [laughs]
Kristin:​ Like, you have them from the original dolls?
Trixie:​ No, I bought them if, like, drunk, a few months ago. [laughter] EBay drunk
is very much, like, my gig.
Jenny:​ Wow.
Trixie:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ Um, I did not say—because I was worried for Jenny's health—which
episode this is, in case you don't know. This is the one, according to IMDB, where
"while Giles is in England, meeting with the Watchers' Council, a bickering Anya and
Willow mind the magic store and inadvertently conjure up a fearsome troll."
Trixie:​ Mm-hmm.
Kristin:​ Olaf. To be precise.
Trixie:​ Yeah, it's a great episode.


Kristin:​ It's a really fun episode.
Trixie:​ You know it's a good episode when, like, you said, "We're doing Triangle"
and I knew exactly which episode—I probably didn't even have to rewatch it, but I
did.
Kristin:​ Yeah, let's start there for a second. What is your—because we
know—people have been tweeting at us, like, "hey, um, do you know that Trixie
Mattel is a huge Buffy fan?! Could you like, maybe have her on the podcast? Do you
know, do you know, do you know?" Like, we—you are known to Buffy fans as a
major Buffy fan, so—
Trixie:​ Yeah, but I'm also pretty closeted about it, especially since I'm friends with
Tom. I'm always like, just… don't t—don't let him know, you know? [Jenny and
Kristin laugh] Like, Tom doesn't need to know that in high school, you know, I had
a part time job where I would buy the box sets of DVDs to rewatch it so much, you
know.
Jenny:​ Yes.
Trixie:​ Tom doesn't need to know that.
Kristin:​ We won't tell Tom.
Trixie:​ Um, but I just—
Kristin:​ [laughing] Tom, if you're listening, turn this off.
Trixie:​ Yeah, jerk the wheel! Flip the car. [Jenny and Kristin laugh] I remember
this episode, 'cause I remembered it was, uh… this is right when Riley just left.
Kristin:​ Yeah. Just went up on his helicopter.
Trixie:​ The hottest boyfriend she ever had.
Jenny:​ Ah-ha!
Kristin:​ Oh, boy.
Trixie:​ Don't you think? I mean…
Jenny:​ This is great. Uh…


Kristin:​ We have a long-standing feud on this podcast—
Trixie:​ It depends what you like. 'Cause he's like, a good guy, and I—I don't know.
Kristin:​ And I don't like a good guy.
Trixie:​ Okay.
Jenny:​ Yeah, some people are into, like, an emotionally available, very
supportive—
Kristin:​ I wanna like a good guy. [laughs]
Jenny:​ Like, good-hearted, not evil, can go out in the sunlight—
Kristin:​ Yes.
Jenny:​ And takes care of you and will take care of your sister and your mom too,
kind of guy.
Trixie:​ Yeah!
Kristin:​ I know. And he has taken a few really great steps before his demise, last
episode. But we also interviewed Marc Blucas—
Trixie:​ You ​did?
​
Kristin:​ Yes. And my—I was like, "fuck Riley, fuck Riley, fuck Riley!" And then we
interviewed Marc Blucas and I was like, "anyway, Riley's fine." 'Cause he's ​so
beautiful.
Trixie:​ Wow, is he perfect in real life?
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ He's like, more—I think he's more beautiful in real life than—
Trixie:​ Was he, like, 6'4" too, or some crazy shit?
Kristin:​ He's ​giant​.
Jenny:​ He's so fucking… tall.


Kristin:​ We actually—you should show Trixie your picture.
Jenny:​ I don't—
Trixie:​ Is he still in great shape and everything or—
Kristin:​ Oh my god, he—
Jenny:​ Yeah. Strapping, broad of shoulder. [Trixie and Kristin laugh] Uh, blue of
eye. The most beautiful smile you've ever seen.
Kristin:​ We had Jenny compare her hand size to Marc's hand size, because…
Trixie:​ Oh, is he just—I mean, he—
Jenny:​ His hands are ​huge​.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ Which you can—the clearest way you can see it is when he puts his hands
on Buffy's, like, rib cage.
Kristin:​ Right. 'Cause she's—
Jenny:​ And basically could just pick her up, one-handedly.
Trixie:​ Yeah. She's little. She's really little, this one here.
Kristin:​ [laughs] She's super tiny.
Trixie:​ We didn't get there yet, but it really makes a really good moment, where
like, Buffy talks to Dawn as like an equal about Riley being gone in this episode.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ Yeah! We can talk about it. We can bounce around.
Trixie:​ They have that great moment where, like, wow, she really is a few years
younger and she really is asking what it's like to have a real relationship problem,
and…


Kristin:​ Yeah, because she's—I mean, it's very sweet. The whole Dawn thing, I
mean, we've just kind of uncovered—I guess this episode is the episode where she
is starting to put two and two together that, like, something's up with her. But you
know, we've gotten to this point where Buffy knows that she's the Key and Joyce
knows that she's the Key. And they still treat her like family.
Trixie:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ Which is really powerful. And in that scene that you're talking about, she's
like, "It'll all be okay… right?" You know?
Trixie:​ Right.
Kristin:​ Like, I actually don't know, but big sister, can you let me know that, like,
when your heart is broken, it can heal.
Trixie:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ Which is really sweet. Okay. So, let's start at the beginning where Xander
is in bed with Anya. Missing Riley, which I find enjoyable.
Jenny:​ Hot.
Kristin:​ We do a Sexual Tension Awards on this podcast, and we've been really
eyeballing Xander and Riley and their love. So I thought it was very amusing that
we opened and Xander, in bed with Anya, is like, "I just can't stop thinking about
that time that Riley asked me to borrow a crescent wrench and I didn't give to
him." Because, you know. He misses his boyfriend.
Jenny:​ He misses his boyfriend and also, like, after the last episode, they—the
writer—the show needs us to know, like, Riley's gone. He's been gone for like, a
little while.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ And he's not coming back. And the only way we can—or like, a clean way
we can get that is from Xander and also, like, Anya. So dry. [Kristin laughs] So very
dry. "You can't give him that wrench. Unless he comes back, and I don't think he's
going to."
Trixie:​ Yeah, and if he does come back, it's not gonna be for the wrench.
[laughter] She says, like, "if he comes back, not for the wrench."


Kristin:​ Right, not for the wrench. To clarify. Beautiful Anya.
Trixie:​ They're all kind of in limbo in this episode about—there's a part where Buffy
says, "who knows, maybe he'll come back." He's not coming back, girl.
Kristin:​ Yeah. [Jenny groans] I mean, when somebody leaves on a helicopter, it's
pretty final. In my—in my experience. [laughs]
Jenny:​ [laughing] Yeah? A lot of people leaving in helicopters?
Kristin:​ [laughing] They've never come back.
Jenny:​ Okay.
Trixie:​ Yeah. And then Anya preaches about how, like, sometimes it's the person,
not the boyfriends. It's like, Sarah Silverman has that joke about like, if you're the
person who always has bad roommates, you're the bad roommate.
Kristin:​ You're the problem.
Jenny:​ Right, right.
Trixie:​ You know?
Jenny:​ I also think it's interesting that the angle they're coming in on is like, "wow,
Buffy can't keep a man! That's two—"
Kristin:​ Two!
Jenny:​ She's like, 20 or something!
Kristin:​ [laughing] And it's been two.
Jenny:​ Like, people have relationships when they're young! And then they end!
Trixie:​ Totally. "She can't keep a man"—that is the energy, big time.
Kristin:​ Yeah. But yeah, I do like that Anya—because Anya—I mean. Anya's a
former fucking vengeance demon, so we usually get Anya on the other side of this
line, where's like, "fuck men. They always fuck up." So I like that they gave her
this, like, "well, here's the thing. Sometimes I would go to this woman and she'd be
like, fuck this guy. And then I'd like, smite him. And then I'd come back and it'd be
the same fucking woman with the same fucking problem all over again." [laughs]


Trixie:​ Totally.
Kristin:​ Which is a nice, you know, a little depth for Anya.
Trixie:​ That is how people are.
Kristin:​ Yeah. Yeah, we all have patterns.
Trixie:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ I know—I agree with you though, Jenny. I don't know that we can call it a
pattern yet for Buffy, since it's—
Jenny:​ Yeah, I think it's a little early to call.
Trixie:​ I know, everyone's like, "I can't believe you didn't marry that TA."
[laughter] You know? "Why didn't you marry your TA from your psych—your Intro
to Psych class. [laughter] There must be something wrong with you."
Kristin:​ Oh my god.
Jenny:​ Uh, 20. She's a spinster!
Kristin:​ She can't lock it down.
Trixie:​ Well, she has to know that's the hottest guy she's ever gonna get.
Jenny:​ Mm.
Kristin:​ [sighs] Well. We'll see. In ​my​ opinion.
Jenny:​ Okay. Okay.
Kristin:​ [laughs] I can't say any more.
Trixie:​ She's had a lot of hot guys, though.
Kristin:​ Yeah, I mean, she does well.
Trixie:​ Including, like, Season 2 Xander who she didn't want.
Kristin:​ Is Season 2 Xander—


Jenny:​ Season 2, swim-team Xander—
Kristin:​ Yes.
Trixie:​ Oh my god.
Jenny:​ Speedo Xander.
Trixie:​ Which is very, like, "we got a Season 2, I got a personal trainer." The actor.
Kristin:​ [laughing] Yes.
Trixie:​ It's very like, "I'm LA now. I'm hot now."
Jenny:​ Uh-huh, uh-huh, uh-huh.
Kristin:​ [laughs] "Can you put me in a Speedo for one scene?"
Trixie:​ The reveal—yes. She's had though—even some, like, little—what was his
name?
Jenny:​ Parker?
Trixie:​ Parker was a little hot. Remember, from Season 1, Owen?
Jenny:​ Owen! The guy who liked—
Kristin:​ Oh my god, the film guy?
Trixie:​ He was hot.
Jenny:​ No, he liked poetry.
Kristin:​ Oh. Who was the film guy?
Jenny:​ Um, the film guy was…
Trixie:​ How to Kill a Boyfriend on the First Date. That was the episode.
Kristin:​ Yeah!
Jenny:​ Yeah, yeah, yeah. And then, um, ooh! Uh, Scott Hope.


Kristin:​ Scott Hope!
Jenny:​ Scott Hope.
Kristin:​ Can we talk about—can we talk about Buffy's purple silk shirt? And the fact
that she's at a convent in the next scene.
Trixie:​ [laughs] Oh, I love this scene! I love when she asks, "how's the food?" to
that nun. [laughter] Oh my god.
Kristin:​ I love that later, we get wimple talk, which actually—
Trixie:​ Yes!
Kristin:​ Yeah. I had to look up what a wimple—I kind of contextually—
Trixie:​ Is it the flying nun hat?
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Trixie:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ It's the hat.
Trixie:​ It's the thing.
Kristin:​ Yeah, it's the—it's the—right. I don't know why it's called a wimple.
Trixie:​ Religious people are wild. [Kristin laughs] I know we're talking about
vampire folklore, but like…
Kristin:​ They're—it's a fine line.
Trixie:​ Real, existing religious people? Not that crazier. Not that much crazier.
Kristin:​ Right. No, it's a—yeah. Exactly. [laughs]
Trixie:​ What if you're wearing a wimple and the wind blows? Know what I mean?
Kristin:​ Well, that's where the flying nun came from.
Jenny:​ Oh, right. [laughter]


Trixie:​ Good point.
Kristin:​ Okay, so. We've talked a lot about Marc Blucas and Riley. And this is very
important because he flew away in a fucking helicopter, and he's not in the credits.
So the credits play and Marc Blucas is sliced right out.
Jenny:​ Wow.
Trixie:​ Whoa.
Kristin:​ Which is important—
Jenny:​ [laughing] Even the credits know, Riley's never coming back.
Kristin:​ Even the credits—the credits were like, "uh, it was a helicopter. He's
not—he's not coming back." Yeah, so I just wanna point that out. Anya has moved
up. Faith and Buffy dancing has moved up earlier into the credits. So we have, like,
a pretty serious shift in this episode.
Jenny:​ Hmm.
Kristin:​ If only Buffy herself could watch the credits, she would know.
Trixie:​ Great moment for Emma Caulfield.
Kristin:​ Yeah. [laughs]
Jenny:​ Hell. Yes.
Kristin:​ Alright.
Jenny:​ Well! It's time for a little father-daughter boxing… stuff?
Kristin:​ Yeah. Giles is drooling all over his books. That he hasn't yet gotten his
hands on, the Watchers' Council have some good books. All sort of a… I mean,
we're not to the next episode, but this is all sort of setting us up for the episode
that follows this episode, Checkpoint.
Trixie:​ Which I watched after, I had to, because I ​love​ Checkpoint.
Kristin:​ Yeah.


Trixie:​ It's one of my favorite episodes.
Kristin:​ So anyway. Giles—
Trixie:​ Anyway. Next—listen to the next one. [laughter] If you were gonna quit
today…
Kristin:​ [laughing] Yes, stay—hang on for one—
Trixie:​ [crosstalk] one more week.
Kristin:​ Hang on for one more. So Giles is gonna go to get more information on
Glory, and this scene is kinda here to set us up for the next episode. But also, to
set us up for like, Buffy's panic that, like, "Giles, don't tell them anything about
Dawn." Right? Like, she's really concerned that even the Key is being brought up—
Jenny:​ Right.
Kristin:​ Because she wants to make sure that nobody's—yeah.
Jenny:​ Well, you gotta assume the monks very carefully crafted some
Dawn-related memories—
Kristin:​ For the Watchers' Council?
Jenny:​ Yeah, absolutely.
Kristin:​ I like that. Now they just know that Buffy, their Slayer or former Slayer,
was—like, has always had a little sister.
Jenny:​ Mm-hmm.
Trixie:​ We start to realize—I mean, this is like, the preview for Checkpoint and
that, like, oh yeah, the Council's still out there. Doing god knows what.
Kristin:​ Right.
Jenny:​ And like, what are they doing?! With no Slayer! [laughter]
Trixie:​ I don't know.
Kristin:​ Like, seriously, are they just playing cards?


Trixie:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ They just play Solitaire and like, backgammon. [laughs] What do Watchers
do?
Jenny:​ You know what's wild is that they haven't—they haven't had Faith, who is
currently in prison right now, right?
Kristin:​ Yeah, we know that 'cause of Angel.
Jenny:​ They haven't had Faith, like, offed so that a new Slayer could rise that they
could then mold and shape.
Trixie:​ That's a really good point.
Kristin:​ Honestly. And the fact that they've learned that they can—we've talked
about this a little bit, but it's like, they've learned that if a Slayer dies even for a
moment, another Slayer is risen.
Jenny:​ Oh, yeah! They could be like—
Trixie:​ Choke her out.
Kristin:​ Choke—right, exactly. [laughs]
Trixie:​ You know?
Kristin:​ I mean, I wouldn't put it past them. Remember fucking Helpless? Like,
they don't fucking care!
Trixie:​ They don't care.
Kristin:​ They don't care at all.
Trixie:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ So I don't know. I don't know what's going on with them.
Trixie:​ I love this—I love this scene where it's like, Buffy clearly hates the Council.
And Giles is like… pornographically reminiscing about their library. [laughter]
Kristin:​ Truly. She's like, "You get real weird when you talk about the books. Dad."
[laughs]


Jenny:​ [laughing] Yeah.
Trixie:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ "Please don't do that in front of me." Um, Anya is like, fucking—
Jenny:​ Oh my god! Over the moon!
Trixie:​ Girl, Anya's like, "Great. Leave."
[Jenny laughs]
Kristin:​ Yeah! "Goodbye. I'll see you never. Could you never come back?"
Trixie:​ I love that. I mean, it's one of the funniest things about her character, is
they gave her this, like, enthusiasm for retail.
Jenny:​ [laughs] Yes!
Trixie:​ Which some people really have.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Trixie:​ You talk to people who own small stores, they are like her.
Kristin:​ Yeah, yeah.
Trixie:​ They love being at their store every day. I have friends who own a wine
shop in my hometown, and they're like, "We love it." They're like, "We're both here
every day, we don't even want days off." I'm like, "work."
Jenny:​ [whispers] Wow.
Kristin:​ [laughs] It's like, satisfying to—
Trixie:​ But also, she's like, world's best employee, but too far? You know, and
that's why she—Willow's like, "I'm gonna supervise."
Kristin:​ Right.
Trixie:​ And Anya's like… Anya couldn't—it's like a slap in the face, that she needs
supervision. 'Cause she's like, "but I'm the best saleswoman."


Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ Right, 'cause she doesn't understand the nuance—'cause they're like,
"yeah, you're great"—
Jenny:​ She's like, "the goal is, make the most money."
Kristin:​ Right, "make the money, count the money. I am so good at all of those
things."
Trixie:​ Uh-huh.
Kristin:​ She doesn't really understand that the other side of sales is, you know,
being kind to the customers. [laughs]
Trixie:​ Yeah, Giles tells us that she lacks finesse.
Kristin:​ Yes. And she says that she has finesse coming out of her bottom.
Jenny:​ She also says that she can completely lie to the health inspector [Kristin
laughs] and bribe him with money and goods.
Kristin:​ This scene—
Jenny:​ She has all the skill sets in place, she just needs—like, it just needs to be
sanded down a little bit.
Kristin:​ Should we play Anya her jingle?
Jenny:​ Give it.
[ANYA jingle plays]
[cash register rings]
She spent one millennium, demonically vengeancin'
Speaks her mind and then some, you know
She's partial to the finer things
And down with double boyfriends, oh yeah
Exchanging cash for goods and also services
She'd love to hold the money for ya (she'll hold that cash)
Just keep the bunnies far from… Anya!


Trixie:​ Then Willow's like, "don't worry, I'll take care of it." And Anya's like, "you're
talking about me like I'm not here."
Jenny:​ So rude!
Trixie:​ And she says it to—but she says it to Xander. [laughs] "She's talking about
me like I'm not here, make it stop." So funny.
Jenny:​ Like, have the conversation with Giles privately, afterward—like, there's no
need—you do not need to do this in front of Anya.
Kristin:​ Well, but this is the whole episode.
Jenny:​ I know.
Trixie:​ Have you guys ever had a relationship where your best friend and your new
beau don't get along?
Kristin:​ Didn't you write a song about that?
Jenny:​ Yes, but it was fictional.
Kristin:​ [simultaneously] But from a different perspective?
Jenny:​ It was base—it was made up.
Trixie:​ She's a liar.
Jenny:​ It was lying.
Trixie:​ She's a liar.
Kristin:​ Okay, so you lied.
Jenny:​ I did.
Trixie:​ Her life has no dynamics to draw from. [Kristin laughs] Everything's perfect.
Kristin:​ It's all made up. [Jenny laughs] Um, I don't think that I've had this
experience.
Trixie:​ There's gotta be a lot of people who, if—you know, this wasn't fictionalized,
this has gotta be a common thing.


Kristin:​ Yeah.
Trixie:​ Probably more common for straight people. Because you know how the
girl—
Kristin:​ Well, but think about lesbians. [laughs]
Trixie:​ Oh, yeah, I guess.
Jenny:​ Mmm.
Trixie:​ But don't you think, like, if you're best friends with someone, it's very
common to think that no one's really good enough for them.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Trixie:​ You know?
Jenny:​ True.
Trixie:​ And then if you're the new person in their life, you sometimes ​are
threatened because you'll never know them as long as the other person.
Jenny:​ Right, right, right.
Kristin:​ Right. You don't have those inside jokes and the history, totally. I mean, I
felt like that a bit when my sister—my sister dated this total asshole. And she's well
aware that he was an asshole. But it was really hard for me, because she had not
dated anyone seriously, like, as an adult person. And that dynamic was really
tricky. Because you don't wanna get in the middle of a thing, 'cause what if it lasts?
Trixie:​ Right.
Jenny:​ Mm-hmm.
Kristin:​ But you also wanna advocate for, like, hey, this—you could do a lot better
than this person. So it's tricky. But with the Xander/Anya dynamic, like, it's—I do
not think that Xander could ever do any better than Anya. So I think Willow is
incorrect with her assessment.
Trixie:​ Yeah. I love that scene where Willow is trying to do a spell and Anya
confronts her about being a thief.


Jenny:​ Mm-hmm!
Trixie:​ 'Cause that's when the fight happens, right?
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ Yeah, well, it's like the seedlings for—
Trixie:​ Yes. And Willow's like, "that's right, I'm a broad daylight, in front of
everyone burglar."
Kristin:​ Right.
Jenny:​ Well, okay, but like, Willow… is a fucking menace in this episode?
Kristin:​ Willow is.
Trixie:​ She is stealing.
Jenny:​ She is literally stealing. [laughs]
Kristin:​ She is—well, but no, I mean…
Trixie:​ And she's doing something that—she's doing something purposely while
Giles is gone. Because she knows she doesn't totally have Giles's trust either.
Jenny:​ Yes.
Kristin:​ That's true. I had room for Willow with her taking the herbs, but she is a
fucking menace outside of that. I mean—
Jenny:​ She even—she's identifying favorably with the Cat in the Hat.
Kristin:​ Thank you! That's exactly—I reread the Cat in the Hat. [laughter] I just
wanted to, like…
Trixie:​ I did some literature study for this. [laughter]
Kristin:​ I did, I did. I really do a lot of work for this podcast. But the fish is correct,
in the Cat in the Hat.
Jenny:​ Right?


Kristin:​ The fish has a fucking point.
Jenny:​ The voice of reason.
Kristin:​ The fish is like, yo, this fucking cat—you don't even ​know​ this cat. This cat
is making a mess of the house and your mother is not here. So I agree, Willow is a
menace in this—I mean, we love Willow. We are big Willow fans, but she's poking at
Anya.
Trixie:​ Well, Xander gets chased out of the magic shop. [Jenny and Kristin laugh]
But also—also, um, Tara's also like, "I'm not doing this either, dude."
Kristin:​ Tara— [laughing]
Trixie:​ The—you know.
Kristin:​ Yes. In the fight. Sorry, I—
Trixie:​ The friction is—for everyone. There's friction for everyone.
Kristin:​ I laughed because you saying Tara reminded me of, A., that Tara's eye
shadow game is really on point—
Jenny:​ Ahhh!
Kristin:​ At this point in the season. She's really going hard on eye shadow. And
two, the first line that Tara has in this episode is when she's—she calls Giles, still,
"Mr. Giles." And she's like, [nerdy voice] "Oh, Mr. Giles, you're going to the UK"—or
going to London, or whatever she says.
Trixie:​ Mr. Giles!
Kristin:​ "So exotic!" And then she's like, "Unless you're from there and then I
guess it's not."
Jenny:​ Uh-huh.
Kristin:​ It's just like, so… I feel like the writers are going a little hard on, like, the
innocence of Tara right now.


Trixie:​ Yeah. Oh, I love that scene where Willow and Tara are talking about the Cat
in the Hat. And Anya's acting like it's the most obscure reference, inside joke.
[Jenny and Kristin laugh] Like it's an inside joke.
Kristin:​ Yes. Yes, I love it.
Trixie:​ When she's like, I would never—she's like, "I would never know what this
is."
Kristin:​ [laughs] Yeah, you're being—
Trixie:​ "No one knows what this is. You're purposely excluding me," yeah.
[Jenny laughs]
Kristin:​ [laughing] "You're excluding me and you're doing that thing where you're
gonna try to make me do drugs and drink alcohol."
Trixie:​ Smoke drugs—yes.
Kristin:​ Yeah. [laughs] There's also something important that happens in the first
Magic Box scene, where we learn—and this is important for later when we talk
about our Sexual Tension Award nominees. We find out that Buffy and the nun, in a
scene that was cut, the nun—
Jenny:​ Too hot for TV, probably.
Kristin:​ Too hot for TV. The nun let Buffy try on her wimple. So I just—
Jenny:​ Under what circumstances?!
Kristin:​ I demand to know—
Jenny:​ The fact that the nun had that, like, that sort of like, misdirecting curl that
was supposed to maybe make us think for a half-second that Buffy joined a
convent, coming out of her wimple. [Kristin laughs] Like, that's—that conflicts with,
like, nun—nunnery, like, ethical…
Kristin:​ Right, the whole point the wimple—
Jenny:​ Like, anti-vanity vibes. Right?
Kristin:​ Yes. That nun seemed on the fence.


Trixie:​ Well, that's like Jewish people who wear wigs for modesty.
Kristin:​ Right.
Trixie:​ I'm here to tell you. Wigs are not modest. [Jenny and Kristin laugh] Wigs
aren't worn to make people not notice you.
Kristin:​ Right!
Trixie:​ Especially since a lot of times, people who wear wigs for religious reasons,
they wear the same style as their hair. But it's fuller, glossier, longer. It's like,
that's not vanity.
Jenny:​ More majestic.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Trixie:​ That's not vanity. That's "look at me. I'm at the airport with a wig on."
Kristin:​ Right.
Trixie:​ Anyway.
Kristin:​ Wig expert.
Trixie:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ I mean, truly.
Trixie:​ It's just so funny to me. "I cover my hair with more beautiful hair because
I'm modest." [Jenny and Kristin laugh] Okay, same.
Kristin:​ I never really thought… about that.
Trixie:​ [sarcastic] Same. I'm being modest right now.
Kristin:​ Yeah, I mean, truly.
Trixie:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ I would have never noticed that you were even there. [laughter]


Trixie:​ [joking] Yeah, I'm very modest.
Jenny:​ So just to be very clear. Xander leaves in some distress.
Kristin:​ Yes.
Jenny:​ As does Tara. They are like, nyeh! Uncomfortable with what's going on, and
they wisely vacate the premises. So that we can go to the Summers house and get
the update on Joyce's bathrobe.
Kristin:​ Right, and we talked about this scene—this was actually the scene that we
kind of opened with. I mean, Joyce is out of her bathrobe. It—her—the title of
Joyce's memoir in this episode "Out of the Bathrobe and Into the Bandanna: the
Joyce Summers Story." [laughs]
Jenny:​ [laughing] Sure, yes.
Trixie:​ Yes. Um, yes. I love when they're reading her for having a smelly bathrobe.
[Jenny laughs]
Kristin:​ She's so insulted.
Trixie:​ Yes.
Kristin:​ "It doesn't smell."
Jenny:​ I have a practical question. When you have brain surgery—
Kristin:​ They would have shaved her head.
Jenny:​ Oh, sure, sure, sure, sure.
Trixie:​ You think?
Kristin:​ I think.
Jenny:​ Well, I think part of it is shaved. I think that's what the bandanna is
covering, right?
Kristin:​ But not enou—I feel like—
Jenny:​ Do you think they would have given her more of, like, an undercut?


Kristin:​ Yeah, I think—[sighs] if only we had gotten Joyce with an undercut.
[laughs]
Trixie:​ A trendy kind of butch undercut. Yeah.
Kristin:​ Yeah. Maybe she got some purple in there.
Trixie:​ And like, a cartilage piercing, you know. [laughter]
Jenny:​ Hell yes!
Kristin:​ Ugh, RIP Pat, but Pat would have loved that.
Jenny:​ Uh-huh.
Trixie:​ Yes! [Kristin laughs]
Jenny:​ But like, when you have a hole in your skull, when they have to make a
hole in your skull to go in and do something—
Kristin:​ Mm-hmm.
Jenny:​ What happens to that part of your skull? Do you just have a hole forever or
do they cover it with a steel plate?
Kristin:​ [simultaneously] Like a plate?
Jenny:​ Or…
Trixie:​ I think they replace it.
Kristin:​ Like, with the bone—they put the bone back? Or they—
Trixie:​ I think they put it back.
Jenny:​ [gasps] Ooh!
Kristin:​ Well, we have definitely—we have a lot of people pausing right now to
email us.
Jenny:​ Yeah. Yeah, someone will know.
Kristin:​ We have a lot of doctors who listen.


Jenny:​ Please let us know.
Trixie:​ A lot of doctors, yeah. Self-proclaimed doctors.
Kristin:​ [laughs] Our scientists are all clicking and clacking to let us know. So
yeah, please let us know what happens to the brain chip that they take out. Not to
be confused with Spike's brain chip.
Jenny:​ A whole other kind of…
Kristin:​ Which is actually a fantastic transition that I just did, because the next
scene is fucking Spike.
Jenny:​ Wait, before we go to Spike, I just need to tell you one thing that we left
out when we first talked about Dawn and Buffy talking about Riley. Which is that
Dawn is wearing a sweatshirt that says "Glamour is my occupation"? [laughter] And
it has a tube of lipstick on it.
Trixie:​ I… I…
Jenny:​ Trixie, your thoughts. [laughter]
Trixie:​ Ahh! I—I mean, I love—something I love about this series is that Michelle
Trachtenberg is… 35 years old. And they're really playing her like she's, like,
eleven. 'Cause I think I heard this somewhere, I think they were originally casting
younger.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Kristin:​ They were.
Trixie:​ But Michelle Trachtenberg was really good, which she is. She is good in this,
and they do try to, like, infantilize her sometimes.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ Mm-hmm.
Trixie:​ You know, she always has braids and no makeup on.


Kristin: ​Yeah. Buffy's always playing with her hair.
Jenny:​ [simultaneously] Yeah, yeah. And barrettes in this part of the season.
Trixie:​ Even though she's like, a whole foot taller than Buffy.
Jenny:​ [laughs] Yeah, yeah.
Kristin:​ [laughs] Yeah, I think that you said she was supposed to be twelve, at
first. The character.
Jenny:​ They originally wrote her as twelve and they didn't change the first, like,
three episodes worth of scripts. To age her up once they cast Michelle and decided
that Dawn would be, like, fourteen instead of twelve or eleven.
Kristin:​ I'm proud of you for reading what that sweatshirt said. Because I tried and
I, like, tried a couple of times and failed and just gave up. I was like, I can't read
what it says.
Jenny:​ It called to me.
Trixie:​ I love the fashion in these shows sometimes, and especially in Buffy. It's
like a time capsule.
Kristin:​ Truly.
Trixie:​ It's really amazing.
Jenny:​ But also, was ​anybody​ wearing… like, the amount of leather pants.
Kristin:​ Yeah!
Jenny:​ The amount of like, sleeveless, silk, ruffle-throated blouses. [Trixie laughs]
[laughing] Were 19-year-olds running around wearing this shit?
Trixie:​ A lot of silky, like, ruffled blouses. Very—and a lot of like, borderline hard
nipples. Like, no bra. Fabric clinging to skin.
Kristin:​ Yeah. Yeah.
Jenny:​ Uh-huh, uh-huh.
Trixie:​ Very LA though, I guess.


Kristin:​ Yeah. And actually, Spike's mannequin has serious nipples.
Jenny:​ Serious nipples!
Trixie:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ Which—
Trixie:​ I mean, Buffy's so often wearing a shirt that is actually fabric on a neck
string. [laughter] It is.
Jenny:​ [laughing] You are correct.
Trixie:​ It's like, flowy at the boob, flowy at the—and usually it's like, lower back
open.
Jenny:​ Uh-huh, yep.
Trixie:​ She's also very—shows back. I mean, whatever, listen. She's 20 years old.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Trixie:​ What are you gonna do, wait till you're 40? [Jenny and Kristin laugh] No,
like. Do it now.
Kristin:​ But if you're listening—
Trixie:​ And she's not gonna make it that long!
Kristin:​ Yeah. Aww.
Trixie:​ She thinks she'll die young, so she's like, "I gotta be a hooker now." Yeah.
Kristin:​ [simultaneously] Right, that's true, she's gotta get it— [laughter] So, um.
Okay, so. Fucking nipple mannequin. Which, by the way, now that I've said that.
Mannequins don't have nipples.
Jenny:​ Depends on the mannequin.
Kristin:​ Really?
Jenny:​ Mm-hmm.


Trixie:​ I think sometimes they do.
Kristin:​ Sometimes they do? I'm so used to, just like, the boob bulge, no nipple
mannequin. But okay. So this mannequin has nipples.
Jenny:​ Store by store variations. [Trixie laughs]
Kristin:​ Right. Spike has explicitly chosen the nipple'd mannequin.
Jenny:​ Well…
Trixie:​ Like, they do at Victoria's Secret.
Kristin:​ Oh, okay.
Jenny:​ Uh-huh.
Trixie:​ I bet they don't at, like, The Limited Too.
Kristin:​ That makes sense.
Jenny:​ [laughing] Oh my god, I hope not!
Kristin:​ Which is where Dawn shops.
Trixie:​ Big hard nipples at The Limited Too, yeah. [laughter]
Jenny:​ Do your twelve-year-old nipple—I—you know what? Never mind.
Kristin:​ Gives a whole new meaning to The Limited Too. Okay. So, um. Spike—this
is very—I find this scene to be very fascinating. I don't mean to be too serious, but
Spike is trying to practice being a good person. Like, he's essentially—first of all, it's
ridiculous. He has a box of chocolates and he's trying to be, like, "So, Buffy…" you
know, to the mannequin. But he gets really angry, flips out. He fucking throws all
the chocolates to the ground. And then he picks them back up and he starts back at
the beginning again.
Jenny:​ I don't think this is the beginning of this process for him at all, right? He's
been at this, like, half the day.


Kristin:​ Exactly. But it—I just think it's very interesting for the character, because
we're just learning—you know, we're only a few episodes in to knowing that Spike
is obsessed with Buffy.
Trixie:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ In a very unhealthy way. But Spike's had a chip for a long time and it's
sort of—he's sort of been, like, walking this line of like, why are they letting him
live? Like, even though he can't fucking kill anybody, like, he's still—he has evil
intentions. He is trying to—
Jenny:​ He would kill people, if he could.
Kristin:​ He would.
Trixie:​ Well, and some people feel bad for him. But I love that Buffy's always down
to kill him. [Jenny and Kristin laugh] And someone always stops her.
Kristin:​ Right. But also, she hasn't. You know?
Trixie:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ And so I just think that it's important to just put a little pin in this moment.
Because we've seen Spike do a lot, but we've never—I don't think—seen
Spike—apart from the little pat, pat that he gave to Buffy in Fool for Love. We
haven't seen him, like, trying to change his anger patterns, which is—
Trixie:​ Yeah, this scene is psycho.
Kristin:​ Right? Yeah, I mean, he—
Trixie:​ Where he's talking to this mannequin. Also, this one-sided fight he has with
her? Where he's like, "I'll insult him if I want to!" and she hasn't said anything,
'cause she's a mannequin.
Kristin:​ Yeah. [Jenny laughs]
Trixie:​ I love that.
Kristin:​ It is, and it's very, like, ugh. Not to like, again, take us serious. But it is
very, like, abusive. Sort of like, it doesn't matter what she was saying. This guy
who has an anger problem is going to get himself angry, no matter what she says.
She's a fucking mannequin.


Trixie:​ Yes.
Kristin:​ She's literally not replying and he's still angry with what she has, quote,
"said."
Trixie:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ So there's—yeah.
Trixie:​ Also, the busted Buffy wig on the mannequin. So good.
Jenny:​ [laughing] Oh my god.
Kristin:​ Yeah, this is like a real… there's a lot of wig happening in this episode for
you.
Trixie:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ We didn't do that intentionally, but yeah.
Trixie:​ A lot of wiggery, yeah. [Kristin laughs]
Jenny:​ I just wanna draw attention for one moment in time to the fact that there
is, at the cash rap station of the Magic Box?
Kristin:​ Mm-hmm.
Jenny:​ There's like your, you know, "shoplifters will be transfigured" and "Magic
Happens" signage. But then there's inexplicably a little poster for McCabe's Guitar
Shop?
Kristin:​ Oh yeah!
Jenny:​ Which is a guitar store in Santa Monica? Uh, for absolutely no reason.
Kristin:​ It's a ​real​ guitar shop in Santa Monica.
Jenny:​ It's a—yeah. Like, who in set design found that and was like…
Kristin:​ Is it still a guitar shop?
Jenny:​ Yeah.


Kristin:​ Wow!
Jenny:​ Yeah, alive and well.
Trixie:​ Wow.
Kristin:​ That's a fun piece of trivia.
Jenny:​ But it's like, nowhere near… Santa Barbara.
Kristin:​ [simultaneously] Santa Barbara. [laughs]
Jenny:​ Sunnydale.
Trixie:​ Is that what Sunnydale's supposed to be?
Kristin:​ Yeah. We've been putting together a lot of facts across the seasons, and it
does seem pretty explicitly, like—actually, just a couple episodes ago, the area code
for the Magic Box is the Santa Barbara area code.
Trixie:​ Oh, wow.
Jenny:​ Oh yeah. And the mayor of Santa Barbara and, uh—
Kristin:​ The actual mayor of Santa Barbara, currently. Well, then.
Jenny:​ Now she's no longer the mayor, but she and some of her friends who were
all into Buffy invited us up and took us all over town. And showed us, like—
Kristin:​ They gave us a binder full of research. And they were like, "you are here
because we are proving to you once and for all that Sunnydale is Santa Barbara."
[Trixie and Kristin laugh]
Jenny:​ Like, here are the sites of all the exterior B-roll town shots that you see,
like, time and time again across the seasons. It's like—there's a lot of supporting
evidence.
Kristin:​ Yes.
Trixie:​ Wow.
Kristin:​ So we believe, here at Buffering the Vampire Slayer, that—


Trixie:​ I wonder if Joss Whedon ever lived there.
Kristin:​ In Santa Barbara?
Trixie:​ You know how a lot of people write about places they've been?
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Trixie:​ Like in It, which I read this year. Derry is supposed to basically be Bangor,
Maine because Stephen King lived in Bangor, Maine.
Jenny:​ Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Kristin:​ Ohhh. That makes sense.
Trixie:​ Did you read that book?
Jenny:​ Oh, hell yeah. Way too young.
Trixie:​ It's crazy. So scary.
Jenny:​ Way, way, way too young.
Trixie:​ Ugh, it was scary.
Kristin:​ Yeah, my Stephen King phase was, like—I was like, 13 and 14 and like—
Trixie:​ Everybody has read It when they were like, a kid. And I didn't read it till
now—
Jenny:​ You're so lucky!
Trixie:​ Yeah, it was manageable as an adult. It was manageable.
Jenny:​ But still pretty bad, right? Like, ooh!
Trixie:​ Still pretty intense, yeah.
Kristin:​ I didn't read—I actually have not read It. I read—
Trixie:​ It's scary.


Kristin:​ Yeah.
Trixie:​ And long.
Kristin:​ I read Misery when I was a kid. And that was fucked up.
Trixie:​ And I read Doctor Sleep this year too.
Kristin:​ Ooh, I've never read that.
Jenny:​ I haven't read that either.
Trixie:​ It was great. Anyway.
Kristin:​ Anyway.
Trixie:​ But he probably lived in Santa Barbara or something, or else why would he
purposely pick that?
Kristin:​ Yeah. Yeah, I don't know. Maybe it's cheap to get B-roll there.
Jenny:​ Uh, maybe.
Kristin:​ Okay. So… now we're at the Magic Box.
Jenny:​ Yeah, now we're at the Magic Box. Willow is taking ingredients off the shelf.
Kristin:​ And also… again, not a key point in this episode, but we have been on Amy
watch. Amy's been a fucking rat for, like, seasons. You know? Willow is fucking
creating trolls and—I mean, she's doing massive magic.
Jenny:​ She's doing all kinds of shit, how is Amy still a rat?
Kristin:​ And she gives a nod to Amy still being a rat in this scene. And she's like,
"but I think that the spell that I did, even though it didn't make her human, made
her smarter because she's always looking at me, rubbing her paws." So I like to
extrapulate from this that Amy is fuck—Amy is as mad as we are that Amy is still a
rat. And Amy the rat is plotting against Willow.
Jenny:​ But also, like, the number one thing rats do regularly—
Kristin:​ Is rub their paws. [laughter]


Jenny:​ Is rub their paws together.
Trixie:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ For sure.
Trixie:​ I took it as, like, she's kind of imagining something that's not really
happening.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ But this is like, hang out with me for a second.
Jenny:​ But like, between Giles—all the resources at their fingertips—
Kristin:​ It's ridiculous.
Jenny:​ For this girl to still be a rat is wrong.
Kristin:​ It is. Okay, so we talked about this scene a bit, with the Cat and the Hat
and the fish and this is where, you know—we're getting a little bit more—the whole
episode sort of takes us step by step to, like, the root of what ​really​ is making Anya
upset with Willow. And what's really making Willow upset with Anya. So we get a
little bit further in that here. Anya is fucking typical Anya. Like, Anya, you just need
to be quiet for like, four seconds?
Trixie:​ Yes, I love this, when she's itemizing every piece of the—ingredient. [Jenny
and Kristin laugh]
Kristin:​ Yes!
Trixie:​ And that one piece, she goes, "Bargain." [Jenny and Kristin laugh]
Kristin:​ And the next one, she's like, "that one's fucking pricey."
Jenny:​ "Ooh, it's gonna cost ya." [laughter]
Trixie:​ Yeah, that's gonna cost ya.
Kristin:​ Whether we're behind Willow wanting to do this, whether it's wrong or not,
it's a good idea. She wants—


Jenny:​ Great concept.
Kristin:​ She wants to make a daylight weapon?
Trixie:​ Yeah, it's cool.
Kristin:​ Like, that's pretty fucking cool. But she, of course, does not. I love her line
when Olaf appears. They've manifested Olaf, because Anya interrupted the spell.
And very reminiscent of—what was the episode where Willow made the fairy lights
to guide her and the more confused she got, the more they attacked her? Do you
remember what I'm talking about?
Trixie:​ Oh, this was the, um—the nightmare one in Season 4.
Kristin:​ Yeah!
Trixie:​ When they were in that haunted man—haunted house.
Kristin:​ When they were in the frat house.
Trixie:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ Yeah, yeah. The effect was very similar and it was like, the angrier she
got, the more the light ball that she had half-created—anyway, Olaf comes out. And
Willow has this amazing line where she's like—
[Clip from episode plays]
Willow: ​He's not a ball of sunshine.
[Kristin laughs]
Trixie:​ So good.
Jenny:​ No, no, no.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Trixie:​ And then I think right away, they are driving down the street, trying to
track him.
Kristin:​ Oh my god. In Giles's car.


Trixie:​ In Giles's car. His little hot rod.
Jenny:​ Oh, it's so stressful! [Kristin laughs]
Trixie:​ And Anya reveals that she has never driven.
Jenny:​ [laughing] No!
Trixie:​ And she says, "I didn't know I could until I tried."
Kristin:​ Right, she's so mad.
Jenny:​ Which, true!
Kristin:​ Which, right, good point. And there's a—somebody wrote in to us and was
like, do you remember in the beginning when Anya was first not a demon anymore.
She asked Xander to drive out of town with her. So they were like, is it a continuity
issue? Like, 'cause—could she drive then and she says she's never driven. And so
the consensus was that she had a driver. [laughs]
Jenny:​ Ah, okay. Okay. [Trixie laughs]
Kristin:​ She had a driver back then, and this is—
Jenny:​ Yeah, from her D'Hoffryn…
Kristin:​ Pension.
Jenny:​ Vengeance demon stipend-slash-sunset pay.
Trixie:​ Very fancy.
Kristin:​ Yeah, yeah. Anya's a fancy lady.
Trixie:​ I also love that Willow's like, "I can't believe I made that troll." And Anya's
like, "You didn't."
Kristin:​ Yeah. [Jenny and Kristin laugh]
Trixie:​ "It was in the crystal, calm down. You didn't do that." [Jenny and Kristin
laugh] And then the pages are flying out of the car, and she's like, "Hope we didn't
need those!"


Jenny:​ [laughing] Yeah.
Kristin:​ Oh my god. The two of them in the car is maybe one of my favorite scenes
in the episode, just 'cause it's so chaotic and so… it's so well-acted, I think, by both
of them too.
Trixie:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ It's just very funny.
Trixie:​ Buffy and Tara find the shop dismantled and they're like, "oh shit."
Kristin:​ Yeah. Before they get to the—back to the shop, they have this scene at
college, which—
Trixie:​ Oh, right!
Kristin:​ I point out only because, remember college?
Jenny:​ Oh, right.
Kristin:​ Like, it's the first time we've seen college in a long time.
Trixie:​ It's when she's hashtag-triggered.
Kristin:​ [laughing] Yes, yes.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Trixie:​ 'Cause she thinks that their relationship is gonna fall apart.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ They have a miraculous love.
Trixie:​ A miraculous love!
Kristin:​ [fake sobbing] They have a miraculous love! [Jenny laughs] She remind—
her crying sounds so much like Sarah Jessica Parker's crying in that scene. It
reminds me of—
Jenny:​ Hmm.


Kristin:​ Listen, I know it's niche, but The Family Stone. Like, Sarah Jessica Parker
crying in The Family Stone is identical to the sound that Sarah Michelle Gellar
makes in the miraculous cry love [sic].
[Clip from episode plays]
Buffy:​ [sobbing, muffled] They have a miraculous love.
Tara:​ What?
Buffy:​ [sniffles] A miraculous love! [sobs]
[Clip from The Family Stone plays]
Sarah Jessica Parker:​ [sobbing] Isn't there anybody that loves me?
Kristin:​ Okay. So yeah, Buffy is crying. She's very triggered. Really, her being
triggered is kind of what defeats Olaf in the end. You know.
Jenny:​ Uh-huh. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin:​ We'll get there, but.
Jenny:​ I love seeing somebody give Anya and Xander's relationship this
enthusiastic of a two thumbs up. You know?
Trixie:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ 'Cause I feel like—
Kristin:​ Yeah, that's true.
Jenny:​ Anya has been around way longer, but has not really been accepted into
the group in the loving way that, like—
Kristin:​ That Tara has?
Jenny:​ Tara has been, recently.
Kristin:​ What do you think, that's 'cause of like, gay guilt? Like, Tara got warmly
welcomed 'cause they felt guilty, like…


Jenny:​ Maybe, but I think it's just people have a hard time with, um, directness.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Trixie:​ I don't think anyone really likes Anya.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Trixie:​ I don't think anybody in this group looks forward to this person. You know.
Kristin:​ Yeah. And Anya—I don't remember even what scene it is, but Anya has a
really great moment where she's like, "you know, there are a lot of people who are
much stranger than me." And, like—
Jenny:​ She's got a point!
Kristin:​ She does have a fucking point. So there's this little scene at The Bronze
between Spike—where Xander runs into Spike.
Trixie:​ Uh-huh.
Jenny:​ And I think this is the first time we're finding out about Spike's—
Kristin:​ It is!
Jenny:​ Love of bloomin' onions?
Kristin:​ Yup! He loves that it's shaped like a flower. He later recommends it to
Olaf—
Jenny:​ Nice.
Kristin:​ Who's hungry for babies.
Jenny:​ Yes. Xander's also very possessive of his basket of peanuts, which to my
eye, looks like the free basket of peanuts you get at a bar, right?
Kristin:​ I agree. And I—
Trixie:​ Well, Xander also hates Spike.
Jenny:​ [laughs] True.


Kristin:​ Yes. But I'm glad you brought up the peanuts specifically, because I'm
pretty sure that Xander slaps Spike's hand away from the peanuts.
Jenny:​ Oh, hell yeah.
Kristin:​ Which is a note that I took. And I gave it the stars that put it into the
nomination bin for Sexual Tension. Doesn't mean it'll be there at the end—
Jenny:​ Okay, okay.
Kristin:​ But I liked the little, like, hand slap away from my peanuts between
Xander and Spike. Okay. So… Olaf has destroyed the Magic Box.
Jenny:​ "Puny receptacle!" he screams. [Kristin laughs]
Trixie:​ Yes!
Kristin:​ So this—this—you should talk about this actor, Jenny, because we were
having a battle of who knew what about Benjamin—
Jenny:​ Oh yes. Wait.
Kristin:​ What is his full name?
Jenny:​ Where is this—[crosstalk]
Trixie:​ He's great in this.
Kristin:​ He's amazing. Yeah, he's—
Trixie:​ What a memorable character. Did you notice that he talks like Anya?
Jenny:​ A hundred percent!
Trixie:​ It's like—gives context to why she talks like that.
Kristin:​ [whispers] Oh.
Trixie:​ They're both from this weird fictional, like, Midsummers—
Jenny:​ Yeah, like, some kind of Scandinavian… land.
Trixie:​ Right.


Kristin:​ Right. Where they have Renaissance fairs.
Trixie:​ And they talk the same. Weirdly specific, and like, you know—
Kristin:​ Yeah. Oh, I didn't notice that.
Trixie:​ They talk the same.
Kristin:​ I love that.
Jenny:​ Maybe it's just like—you know how certain languages, when they're
translated to English, you—or when you're learning a different language, you see
like, that you put the verb in a different place. You know, like the ordering of
sentences—
Kristin:​ Yeah, yeah.
Jenny:​ Feels different, and they kind of approach things similarly in that way too,
but—
Trixie:​ Like when people learn foreign languages in high school, they oftentimes
talk, like, too proper?
Kristin:​ Mm-hmm, right. Totally.
Jenny:​ Mm-hmm, mm-hmm. Cool. So that's… Abraham Rubin ​Hercules ​Benrubi.
Trixie:​ That's his name?
Jenny:​ Yeah, yeah.
Kristin:​ That's his fucking name!
Trixie:​ Wow.
Jenny:​ He's been on everything. He was on ER, I think, for a while.
Kristin:​ A very long time.
Jenny:​ He was in the X Files. He's kind of been…
Kristin:​ He's Kubiac on Parker Lewis Can't Lose.


Jenny:​ There it is.
Kristin:​ He is known for his towering height, like, when you look him up on IMDB,
that is like—they're like, "notable features: towering height." He's 6'7".
Jenny:​ Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Trixie:​ Whoa!
Kristin:​ Yeah. And he's amazing in this role as well.
Trixie:​ He's so funny in this.
Kristin:​ Yeah, he's great.
Jenny:​ Dude, the way that he says, "It was one wench!" [Kristin laughs] is like…
mmm!
Trixie:​ Also, they're—I love when they're like, "but don't you​ like​ being a troll?"
And he's like, "yeah." [laughter]
Kristin:​ He's like, yeah—
Trixie:​ He's like, mad but also, he likes it.
Jenny:​ Like, he's gotten ​used t​ o it.
Kristin:​ Right, right. He's adapted.
Jenny:​ I think he's playing it down. I think he actually enjoys it a little bit more
than he wants them to know, 'cause he wants his, like, rage at being made troll to
be justified.
Kristin:​ Right, right.
Trixie:​ Well, not a spoiler, but in future seasons, we do get a glimpse of him, out of
drag.
Kristin:​ Right, right.
Trixie:​ Before he's a troll. And he's not very different.


Kristin:​ He's kinda the same? I don't remember.
Jenny:​ Yeah, yeah.
Trixie:​ He's sort of like, a misogynistic, you know. He still talks like that, like, very
direct and weird.
Kristin:​ So are we to believe, then—do we understand Anya's full arc here? Like,
she was just a person like Willow.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ And she got mad enough to—
Jenny:​ To learn how to do a spell.
Kristin:​ And turn—
Jenny:​ To turn her boyfriend into a troll.
Kristin:​ Into a troll. And so then D'Hoffryn, just like with Willow—
Jenny:​ Recruited her.
Kristin:​ Recruited her.
Jenny:​ Oh yeah.
Kristin:​ Okay. I just wanted to make sure that she was just a regular old Anya—
Jenny:​ Yup.
Kristin:​ Living in whatever fairyland they lived in together.
Jenny:​ Yes.
Kristin:​ Great. But we also get—
Trixie:​ It's like, Finland or some shit.
Jenny:​ Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Kristin:​ Right. Adjacent to the world without shrimp—


Trixie:​ Yes.
Kristin:​ Which is brought up for the second time in this episode.
[sound of jewelry falling onto ground]
Trixie:​ Sorry. [creaking chair] Thank you.
Kristin:​ I like that actually—that, Trixie, sound effect. [laughs]
Trixie:​ Oh, thank you. Jewelry hitting the ground?
Kristin:​ It was like, jewelry clattering. [laughs]
Jenny:​ So! Spike and Xander are playing pool! Venting about people not
understanding. Their significant others, relatable.
Kristin:​ Fucking—yes.
Trixie:​ Do you think this is gay?
Jenny:​ I think they're just getting closer and closer.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ They just have so much to talk about, these guys. [laughter]
Kristin:​ I love when Spike is like, "I really know how you feel, man. Nobody really
understood Dru." [laughs] You know? Like—
Trixie:​ It is true.
Kristin:​ Yeah. Yeah!
Trixie:​ I see her at my gym all the time.
Kristin:​ Juliet?
Trixie:​ Yeah. I've seen her three times.
Jenny:​ Wow.


Kristin:​ [laughs] Have you ever said hello?
Trixie:​ No, I mean, she's at the gym, she's doing her thing. She's a very, um—
Kristin:​ That's true, the gym is a bad place to—
Trixie:​ She has that movie star thing where, she's, uh… you know, very beautiful
and very odd-looking in person. 'Cause she really has, like… you know, like, people
who are really beautiful on screen oftentimes have, like, ​really​ big eyes, ​really ​big
cheekbones?
Jenny:​ Like, exaggerated features.
Kristin:​ Right.
Trixie:​ [crosstalk] and you're like, whoa.
Kristin:​ Yeah. [laughs] Totally.
Trixie:​ And she's ​so​ thin and so, um, she's always just doing her thing. Staying in
shape. She looks great.
Kristin:​ [sighs] She's amazing. Okay! Uh, Olaf busts in, breaks up the boyfriends
at the pool table, because he is so thirsty and hangry. He's—
Jenny:​ Yeah, he wants ale! He wants—
Kristin:​ Babies.
Jenny:​ Some succulent babies to eat.
Kristin:​ [laughs] Spike's like, "I think you can just get some of those at the
hospital" and Xander's like, [impact sound effect]
Jenny:​ [laughing] Oh, god!
Kristin:​ [laughs] Back of the head slap. So this is, like, fun. I mean, I don't know,
whatever. Fucking Olaf wants to, like, pillage the town of Sunnydale and eat babies.
Trixie:​ I love that.
Kristin:​ So if you're taking it literally, it's not fun, but it is a very—right, it's a very
fun—


Trixie:​ And then there's this fabulous reveal of him—
Kristin:​ Ugh!
Trixie:​ Of when Olaf says, "You're just like when we were dating." It's great.
Kristin:​ [makes record scratch noise]
Jenny:​ [simultaneously] And then everyone's like, record scratch! Fucking…
Kristin:​ [laughing] Yeah.
Trixie:​ It's great.
Kristin:​ It is. And Xander's like, "um, what?"
Trixie:​ So it's like, Willow's fault that this troll's out of the crystal. It's Anya's fault
that this troll exists.
Jenny:​ Yes.
Kristin:​ Right.
Trixie:​ Now it's everyone's problem. It's everyone's fault. You know? Now it's
everyone's fault.
Jenny:​ [laughs] So it was a joint effort.
Kristin:​ Joint effort!
Trixie:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ Right, right. They can share the blame. Okay, so, Olaf also hates witches,
we learn. Willow is really struggling to get her spell out. She's like, trying over and
over again, it's not working. Olaf knocks the whole fucking balcony down, which—
Trixie:​ Oh, that's right.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Trixie:​ That happens a lot at The Bronze.


Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ [laughs] They should probably rethink the—
Jenny:​ ​Something.​
Kristin:​ Like, you know, this is a place where—
Jenny:​ Steel—maybe steel construction.
Trixie:​ The Bronze, where they've been going since they were… in high school.
Kristin:​ Sophomores in high school.
Trixie:​ Sixteen.
Jenny:​ It's everything. It's a coffee house, it's a music venue, it's a night club—
Trixie:​ They get some fabulous—I know—I mean, there's no musical guest this
episode, I don't think.
Kristin:​ No.
Trixie:​ But they have some incredible music—
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ They seriously do. I don't—and like, 20 people show up. For, like… Cibo
Matto. [laughter] Who we've seen.
Trixie:​ Michelle Branch, who cares. [laughter] Five people. [laughter] I mean,
Charmed did the same thing.
Kristin:​ [sighs] Were you a Charmed fan?
Trixie:​ Uh, yeah, but I mean, I was just talking to my boyfriend about this. People
who live in the fantasy that Charmed is as good as Buffy…
Kristin:​ [disapprovingly] Oh…
Trixie:​ Need to get real.
Jenny:​ Ha! [laughs]


Kristin:​ I agree with you.
Trixie:​ I know a lot of people who think it's better.
Kristin:​ Seriously?!
Trixie:​ Dead serious. It's never better.
Kristin:​ How. We should do a live event where people battle this out.
Trixie:​ [simultaneously] The best episode of Charmed is not as good as the worst
episode of Buffy.
Kristin:​ Yeah. I agree. And I'm—I mean, I like Charmed.
Trixie:​ Of course! I've watched the whole thing, but you know.
Kristin:​ Yeah. [whispers] Wow. [normal voice] Okay, so. Spike is like, trying to
fucking show off by not devouring the victims of the fucking Bronze—
Jenny:​ And is ​shocked​ that this fails to impress Buffy.
Kristin:​ He has a really creepy fucking moment. I mean, he's creepy—he's being
creepy. He's been being creepy.
Trixie:​ I love it, and then she goes, "Are you—you really want credit for not feeding
off a dying person?" And he's like, "What does it take?!" [laughter]
Kristin:​ Right.
Jenny:​ Like, "what does she want from me?"
Kristin:​ But he has—I think a little bit before that, she falls on him. And he like,
doesn't let—like, he's supposed to be helping with the battle, but instead, he like—
Jenny:​ Ohh.
Kristin:​ Holds her for an extra second. And it's like, ughh.
Jenny:​ Sir. Excuse me, sir. [Trixie laughs]


Kristin:​ Sir. Very—yeah. [Jenny shudders] Anyhow. Buffy basically gives her battle
orders. And she's like, "Xander, follow Olaf." So. Now we wind up back at the Magic
Box.
Trixie:​ Oh, yeah.
Kristin:​ And fucking Olaf is like—oh, this is rough.
Trixie:​ [hitting the table rhythmically for emphasis] Olaf snaps Xander's wrist.
Kristin:​ It is, like—
Trixie:​ Shocking.
Kristin:​ It hurts my wrist to watch the scene. Like, it's—
Trixie:​ It's shocking.
Kristin:​ It is.
Jenny:​ It's brutal.
Kristin:​ 'Cause we don't see… injuries like that often. Where it's… you know—
Jenny:​ Like, something that's gonna require a cast and a significant time to heal.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ And possibly bone could be jutting out of skin, maybe.
Kristin:​ And they… it's like they—I mean, they really want you to see that Xander—
this is a very, like, Solmon's baby kind of setup, right? Of like—
Jenny:​ Right, right.
Kristin:​ We—like, we can tell that Xander loves them both because Xander won't
choose. And we can tell, and ​Willow​ can tell, how much Anya truly loves Xander
because she says "take me, don't take him."
Trixie:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ And this is, like, right after—before Olaf rolls up again, when it's just Willow
and Anya, they're having this conversation where they're sort of like, revealing to


each other, like, what their fears and insecurities are, re: one another. Like, Willow
is afraid that Anya's gonna hurt Xander, either physically or, like, break his heart.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ And Anya is afraid that she's, like, never gonna be truly accepted by the
other really important people in Xander's life.
Kristin:​ Mm-hmm.
Jenny:​ And they're like, gaining a little common ground. And then… [Kristin
giggles] Yes?
Kristin:​ Sorry, I'm laughing because in that exchange—it's a very important
exchange, and I'm with you. It's also where Willow says to Anya, like, "Did you get
your thousand years of hurting men gold watch?" Which I feel is just very enjoyable
and—
Jenny:​ A thousand years, you'd hope it'd be better than a gold watch. You know?
Kristin:​ I agree, I agree.
Trixie:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ But to me—
Trixie:​ And a little below the belt. And I mean, I think her concerns are kinda
warranted. It's like, you literally…
Kristin:​ Yes.
Trixie:​ You have a history of fucking guys up. Of course I'm concerned.
Kristin:​ Yeah, no. Right. I agree. I just liked the watch. [laughter]
Trixie:​ Of course, so funny. And then, they're so good at writing in this. They
always come up with this supernatural problem that parallels the real life problem,
right?
Kristin:​ Right.
Trixie:​ I mean, they're asking him, in the beginning of the episode, to choose a
side. And now he has to choose which one of them lives or dies. You know.


Jenny:​ Mm, mm-hmm.
Trixie:​ So good. They do such a good job of that. They do so many—there's so
many parts in this episode where, if you took out the supernatural part of it, it
could be a real fight.
Kristin:​ Mm-hmm. Well, and that's like, I mean, obviously we all know this. But
like, that is the beauty of this genre of show and like, what this show does so well,
better than maybe—everyone in this room agrees—any other supernatural show—
Jenny:​ Mm-hmm!
Trixie:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ Is that it takes that and it just—it lets you drill down even further to the
point. It's like, all those people that you were talking to through the microphone
earlier, like, have you ever been in this position? I feel like a lot of people have. It's
like, well, those people don't get to have this blow-out of a situation to really get
down to the bottom of it all and to see the truth. Most people in day to day are
never gonna get to this truth, and they're just gonna be like, fucking pissed and not
have a good relationship. But these guys, like, we see them get deeper because we
get the supernatural.
Trixie:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ To get us there.
Jenny:​ Mm-hmm, mm-hmm. Willow… in this flurry… there's a couple really nice
things. When Olaf first gets there, he's got this whole attitude of like, "ugh, I could
be eating babies right now, but because you're doing this magic, I had to come
here and stop you. Like, you're really cutting into my baby-eating time." [Kristin
laughs] Then we have, like, the wonderful moment where, you know, Anya's like,
"take me instead" and then it's like, ​very​ crystal-clear to Willow that, like, you
know, things are chiller than she suspected.
Kristin:​ Mm-hmm.
Jenny:​ Or feared. And then Willow makes the cash register disappear.
Trixie:​ So funny.
Jenny:​ Not for the first time. [laughs]


Kristin:​ Right, that's true, it's the second time. [laughs]
Trixie:​ So funny.
Jenny:​ And then they find a beautiful way to each, like, lean into their strengths
and team up to defeat Olaf. Uh, Willow directs Anya to piss Olaf off.
Kristin:​ Yes, and I—
Jenny:​ Which she's so good at.
Kristin:​ She's so proud of the fact that Willow has, like, you know, given her
accolades for this skill that she has.
Trixie:​ Right.
Jenny:​ [laughing] Yeah.
Kristin:​ Of pissing everybody off. Olaf also, when he walks in, says, "You fight well
although you are a tiny man." [laughs]
Jenny:​ Yes, yes, yes.
Kristin:​ [laughing] Which I think is a fun line and, um…
Trixie:​ Yes. And then the plot twist is, I'm gonna give you a reward, only one of
them has to die and you have to choose.
Jenny:​ Eeuuggh!
Trixie:​ Which is kind of almost worse.
Kristin:​ Right. It is ​definitely​.
Jenny:​ Oh, def—way worse.
Trixie:​ Okay, who would you have picked, though?
[someone gasps]
Kristin:​ How dare you!


Trixie:​ Come on, what do these people listen for? [Jenny and Kristin laugh] They
wanna know!
Jenny:​ If it's based—ugh, god, we're gonna get burned alive. If it was based ​only
on the behavior in this episode… Willow's gotta die. [Trixie cackles]
Kristin:​ I'm not—I can't—
Jenny:​ Pay for the ingredients!
Trixie:​ The lesbians would like a word with you right now.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ [laughing] I know, I'm fired.
Kristin:​ Ooh! I'm glad you brought that up, actually. This is a very important
episode for Willow. And a great way for me to distract from the choice I will never
make. [laughter] But Willow, in her exchange with Anya, her defense of "how could
you think"—because we haven't really talked about it, but Anya is like, "well, I don't
know. Last time you fucking kissed him, and that's what ended him and Cordelia,
so like, maybe." And so fucking Willow is like, "hello? Gay now." Like, her whole
argument against, like, why this wouldn't happen is that she's gay now, so she's
not attracted to men. And I only—I'm sorry to bring you into this, Trixie, but this is
the episode that you're on with us. And we have had people "at" us for quite some
time. This is a very heated debate, because we've seen a very meaningful
relationship between Willow and Oz. And we're seeing a very meaningful
relationship between Willow and Tara.
Trixie:​ Right.
Kristin:​ And so people have wanted to know our opinion for a long time, but we
haven't been able to talk about it because it would be a spoiler. What do we think
about the fact that Willow self-identifies as gay? And this is where it happens.
Discuss.
Jenny:​ Identity's fluid. As long as Willow's, like, getting it good, like, who gives a
shit? She used the word, not us.
Kristin:​ Well, that's where my opinion comes in.
Jenny:​ [simultaneously] And the time indicator. Go ahead.


Kristin:​ No, no.
Trixie:​ I mean… I just think of it as shorthand. Basically, when you say you're
straight, what you're really saying is, that's my go-to, I'm primarily interested in.
Kristin:​ Fair.
Trixie:​ It doesn't really mean, like, forever. It doesn't mean… it kinda just means
today.
Kristin:​ And I'm there with that. Like, I say I'm gay and that doesn't really—you
know what I mean? Like, I don't—it's not very true in the sense of, like, you know,
whatever you might take it to mean. But Willow is using it at the reason she
wouldn't be attracted to Xander, which I think is important? Here's my opinion. If
these are real people and Willow is saying "I'm gay"—
Trixie:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ Then she's fucking gay! Like you said.
Jenny:​ Mm-hmm.
Kristin:​ She is what she says she is. But this is also a writer's room. And so I think
that a lot of people who are very frustrated about her being written as a character
who says "I am gay now" is that—we have a lot of people who listen who identify as
bisexual and who constantly feel erased because if they're dating a woman right
now, then their bisexuality is erased. Or if they're dating a man right now, their
bisexuality is erased. So I think that it's at least important to point that this is a
writer's room choosing to make Willow gay because she's now with a woman,
rather than like, real life, where Willow's like, you know, "I'm gay now." Which is
fair.
Trixie:​ I mean, we always knew she was a little gay. Like, do you remember in—
Jenny:​ Mmm!
Kristin:​ Yes!
Trixie:​ Is it The Witch?
Jenny:​ Mm-hmm.
Kristin:​ Yes.


Trixie:​ We always knew that she at least had an idea of it.
Kristin:​ Right.
Trixie:​ A lot of people don't realize till late in life.
Kristin:​ Yeah, and I'm here—
Trixie:​ They just don't get the shine in—you know, they're not on the CW having a
story line as, like, a 35-year-old, becoming gay.
Kristin:​ Right. Right.
Trixie:​ It's always like, a 12-year-old crying. You know? [laughter] So, you know.
Kristin:​ And Will—you know, just for you—for those of you who've been waiting for
this, for our discussion—
Trixie:​ It's like, who turns lesbian and then goes back to straight? Nobody. [Jenny
and Kristin laugh] The other way around, maybe. But like… nobody's going, like,
"Lesbianism isn't what it's cracked up to be."
Kristin:​ [laughing] Yeah.
Trixie:​ They're like, oh never mind, this is fierce.
Kristin:​ This is amazing. [laughter]
Trixie:​ Really, I think, I mean. Plus, if you look at the type of relationship she has
with Tara, it's—we're talking about her high school boyfriend?
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Trixie:​ And we're talking about her adult woman, first real relationship. The
gender's almost not important, 'cause the relationships are different.
Kristin:​ Very different.
Trixie:​ The depth is different. I mean, this is like a soulmate situation with Tara.
Kristin:​ [sighs] Yeah.


Trixie:​ You know? I mean, it's so obvious—I mean, of all the couples on the show,
they're the real, like, soulmate couple that we ever see.
Kristin:​ Fuck yeah. Yeah. Yes.
Trixie:​ Where it's like, they're just meant to be together.
Kristin:​ I agree.
Trixie:​ Ugh!
Kristin:​ We love them.
Trixie:​ I am so gay for them. [Jenny laughs]
Kristin:​ Oh god, right?
Trixie:​ [laughing] I really am.
Kristin:​ I mean, they were—
Trixie:​ I think we already have it—oh, was this Family, where they're slow dancing
and they're floating?
Jenny:​ Uh-huh.
Kristin:​ Oh god, yes.
Trixie:​ Oh my god.
Jenny:​ I know.
Kristin:​ [takes deep breath] We, like, wept through that episode, talking about
that episode.
Trixie:​ That episode's amazing.
Kristin:​ It's so fucking good. Sorry that I derailed us—
Trixie:​ That was that episode. [Trixie and Jenny laugh]
Kristin:​ To talk about sexuality, but that's my responsibility. You're all welcome—


Jenny:​ Sure, sure, sure, sure.
Kristin:​ And I'm sorry. Back to the fight. Willow and Anya are doing their battle
plans behind the cash register. Xander's got a snapped wrist. Buffy—
Trixie:​ [hits table for emphasis] Xander's getting his ass kicked, by the way.
Kristin:​ I know, and like, really—
Jenny:​ Oh my god. He's like, breaking himself against [covers mouth] that
hammer over and over and over again.
Trixie:​ Thank ​god​ Buffy walks in.
Kristin:​ He's like, really throwing himself into it, which is… like, that is kinda
Xander's deal. He's like—
Trixie:​ [laughs] And then Willow says, uh, "Buffy." Uh, and then, "Tara, stay back."
You think ​Tara's​ gonna sprint at that troll? [laughter]
Jenny:​ [laughing] Yeah. Tara—if you watch Tara in this scene, she is just like, at
the door of the Magic Box, like, with her back against it, just watching, standing
stock still for so long.
Kristin:​ [laughs] You'd think she'd maybe throw some of her witch knowledge into
the—in here.
Jenny:​ I don't think that she's, like, as confident or ready to get involved in that
way.
Trixie:​ She ​just s
​ tarted wearing eye shadow. [laughter]
Kristin:​ [laughing] That's true!
Trixie:​ She's really finding herself.
Jenny:​ [laughing] True! Baby steps, Kristin!
Trixie:​ She's finding herself.
Jenny:​ One—thing—at a time!


Kristin:​ So… okay, so yeah. Buffy—you know, Anya's like, "the power is in the
hammer." So Buffy gets the hammer and then goes back to Olaf, who's— [laughs]
Trixie:​ [laughing] And then gets hit again.
Jenny:​ Oh my god.
Trixie:​ And then he goes, oh, by the way, he's still a troll.
Kristin:​ Yeah, he's still fucking strong, so…
Jenny:​ [simultaneously] Yeah, he still has troll strength, obviously. Also, I was
watching with the closed captioning on, and when Buffy pulls Olaf's arm up behind
his back?
Kristin:​ Mm-hmm.
Jenny:​ The closed captioning is, uh, in brackets: "ligaments tearing."
Kristin:​ [gasps] Oh god!
Jenny:​ [laughing] Yeah! Yeah!
Kristin:​ Who did the closed captioning?
Jenny:​ I don't know.
Kristin:​ Gross!
Trixie:​ Buffy whoops his ass pretty fast.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ And then Willow, right? Poofs him to—
Trixie:​ Back into the crystal.
Kristin:​ She thinks.
Jenny:​ Right, right, right. Well, but first, before Willow can poof him away, Olaf—


Kristin:​ Yes.
Jenny:​ Olaf ​dares​ to say that their love will never last. [Trixie laughs] He calls
Xander "ludicrous and far too breakable," which like, okay.
Kristin:​ Fair, yeah. It's a good assessment.
Jenny:​ And then Buffy's like, "Love is real!"
Trixie:​ Yes.
Kristin:​ Yes.
Jenny:​ And then she beats him into submission. And then the poofing.
Kristin:​ It's a fun way of coming off of Into the Woods. Because they—like, they
wanna show that—
Jenny:​ Oh, yeah.
Kristin:​ Buffy is struggling with this. And I love the way that they do it.
Trixie:​ The comedy of it.
Kristin:​ Yeah. That they let us have an enjoyable, fun, funny episode, but they still
get to the point of like, Buffy's struggling with this. She's not struggling like she
struggled when Angel left.
Trixie:​ No. It's also very her style to hit something to cope, that's always been her
thing. You know?
Jenny:​ Oh, yeah.
Kristin:​ Yeah. Action. She's an action girl, you know?
Jenny:​ Yeah, remember just a couple episodes ago when she was pounding that
rubber snake face?
Trixie:​ Yes!
Kristin:​ Oh my god.
Trixie:​ Beating the hell out of it, that completely realistic— [Jenny laughs]


Kristin:​ Yeah… very realistic. Yes. [laughs]
Jenny:​ Right at the cutting edge of available technologies.
Trixie:​ And then she gets this cool hammer out of it.
Kristin:​ Yes!
Trixie:​ And who knows, we might see that again someday.
Kristin:​ We might—I mean, you know, it seems like a good weapon.
Jenny:​ Mm-hmm, mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Kristin:​ So perhaps it will…
Jenny:​ So heavy!
Kristin:​ Come back. Also, not to talk about a GIF, but I'm gonna talk about a GIF.
There is, like, the most frequently used Buffy crying GIF happens in this episode.
And it's when—
Jenny:​ Pigtails, wadded-up tissues.
Trixie:​ Oh, yes.
Kristin:​ Yeah, she's like, [fake sobbing] "You guys are so good together and you're
alive" and she—
Trixie:​ "Beautiful and alive." [laughs]
Kristin:​ Yeah, and she puts her sort of face into a tissue and cries.
Trixie:​ I love emotional Buffy.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Trixie:​ How funny to make it comedy and not just boo-hoo.
Kristin:​ Yes.


Trixie:​ It would have been a little exhausting for her to be just moping the whole
episode.
Kristin:​ Agree. That's why I really like how they treated it.
Jenny:​ Yeah. And she's like—everything is sort of through the filter of her, like,
looking at her friends' relationships. And like… actually! Kind of uncharacteristic for
Buffy.
Kristin:​ [laughs] Yeah, that's true.
Jenny:​ Like, processing her pain but like, in a productive way, worrying about her
friends. Usually, she's very, like… uh…
Kristin:​ Wow.
Jenny:​ Inward focused? You know?
Kristin:​ Do you think—that's really an interesting observation. Because the whole
assessment of Riley—like, basically what she's facing right now is that Riley said
she was not open—
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ And was not able to do X, Y and Z. So it is interesting, that.
Trixie:​ Is it too early to ask this?
Kristin:​ Never.
Trixie:​ If you were the Slayer… and the Key was the only way that the world was
gonna end. You'd kill Dawn, right? [Jenny laughs] 'Cause I would kill Dawn.
[laughter] I'm just saying.
Jenny:​ [laughing] You're like, given the choice—
Trixie:​ Is that dark? I've thought about this every time. I've thought about this.
She killed Angel.
Kristin:​ She did.
Trixie:​ What's the fucking difference? Like…


Kristin:​ Oh, but it's her ​sister!​ Not like… [groans a little]
Trixie:​ I—listen. I would have walked in, said, "Dawn, what are you doing?" Bam!
Elbow, like— [Jenny and Kristin laugh] I mean, I would have made it quick.
Kristin:​ Wait, so—okay, so who would you choose between Willow and Anya?
Trixie:​ Oh, uh…
Jenny:​ While we're killing people.
Kristin:​ Yeah, while we're killing everybody, who—
Trixie:​ Willow.
Kristin:​ You would kill Willow?
Trixie:​ Yes.
Kristin:​ Everybody's killing Willow.
Trixie:​ You save the lesbian. But also, you, um… she's been friends longer.
Kristin:​ Yeah, I wouldn't kill Willow. I don't—
Trixie:​ Anya's lived a thousand years. She's had a good life.
Kristin:​ I wouldn't survive long, because I would kill no one and I would just be
killed.
Trixie:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ That's my problem in life. [laughs]
Trixie:​ Anya's already lived forever.
Kristin:​ That's true.
Jenny:​ Yeah, she's had a—
Kristin:​ Anya's had a good run.
Trixie:​ She's had a good run.


Kristin:​ Um, I would also not kill Dawn. Ugh! I'm sorry, everyone. It's just not my
way.
Trixie:​ I guess you're just a really good person.
Kristin:​ [ditsy voice] I'm just so—I'm just so—such a good person, yeah.
Jenny:​ [laughs] Well, it's a good thing that we aren't the Slayer. I guess you're
fine, but—
Trixie:​ You would've killed Dawn? I mean, how many—
Jenny:​ I mean… I would at least have thought about it. [Kristin laughs]
Trixie:​ When I heard that Dawn was the Key. I would have killed her.
Kristin:​ Okay, so speaking of Dawn. This is how the episode—so, Olaf is poofed
away into we think, maybe—you know, Willow is like, "I'm not really sure.
[laughing] It's kind of like throwing a bee at a puppy."
Trixie:​ Yes.
Jenny:​ As you do.
Kristin:​ As you do, all the time. And the immediate threat is put to rest, but of
course, we have our larger arc of Season 5 and…
Jenny:​ Mm-hmm, mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Kristin:​ These—this is not the point of the scene, but I wanna give a shout out to
Michelle Trachtenberg's fishtail braids? Because they're fucking beautiful. And I love
them, and I love a fishtail braid.
Jenny:​ [laughs] Okay.
Trixie:​ Her hair is so beautiful in this show all the time.
Jenny:​ Very shiny.
Kristin:​ Her hair—yeah.
Trixie:​ So long and strong and beautiful.


Kristin:​ You can tell that, like, the hair people are just like, "what can we do?" and
like, play with Michelle Trachtenberg's beautiful hair. [Jenny laughs]
Trixie:​ I mean, do you remember that opening in season—what's the second
episode, like… where she—
Jenny:​ Real Me?
Trixie:​ Yeah, the Real Me. She has, like, hair clips. They really make her a child.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ Oh, yeah.
Kristin:​ That's before they had given up on her being twelve.
Trixie:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ So she overhears… first of all—
Jenny:​ These motherfuckers! Can't they go somewhere—
Kristin:​ Dude… I know…
Jenny:​ They're always having this conversation, one to two rooms away from
Dawn. Just like—
Kristin:​ I talk about this in the My So-Called Life podcast, too—
Jenny:​ Go somewhere else!
Kristin:​ Like, just, you've learned the acoustics of your home. [Trixie laughs] How
many times you gonna make this mistake, of like—please. But yeah, they're talking
about Joyce knowing.
Jenny:​ Mm-hmm.
Kristin:​ And Dawn overhears. And…
Trixie:​ We—I mean, we knew she was gonna find out. We didn't know, but how
would you not?


Kristin:​ How would you not find out eventually? But this is a shit—
Jenny:​ With people fucking talking about it one room away from you, yeah, how
would you not find out?
Kristin:​ Yeah. This is a shitty way to find out, though. It's like, basically everyone
she loves the most, in a room, talking about it. It's rough. Dawn's had a rough run.
And you know… it's gonna continue.
Trixie:​ Well, the metaphor here in this season is sort of about mixed families and
about, like, maybe adoption or, you know, how much is someone your chosen
family, really?
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Trixie:​ And I guess if you were her, how would you wanna find out, you know?
Kristin:​ Mmm…
Trixie:​ It's like, you don't wanna find out that way.
Kristin:​ No, you want somebody to sit you down and have a conversation with you.
But also…
Trixie:​ And nobody likes to feel like people are talking about them. You know?
Nobody likes to feel like there's this thing about me everyone knows about but
I—you know. How long have you guys been talking about this, you know?
Kristin:​ Right, right. [takes deep breath] So… [Jenny groans] That's where we end.
Trixie:​ Great episode.
Kristin:​ Such a good episode. Maybe our favorite podcast episode ever that you
were here with us and talking about it.
Trixie:​ Oh, of course. It was a blast.
Kristin:​ Thank you for being here.
Trixie:​ Have me back sometime!
Kristin:​ Please!


Jenny:​ Oh my god, please.
Kristin:​ We would love to have you back.
Trixie:​ Yeah, next time you're filming in this neighborhood. [laughter] I'll put in my
requests, 'cause I love, uh… I love Season 6. And I have some—
Jenny:​ Hell yeah.
Kristin:​ Oh yeah, tell us your episodes. We would absolutely love—
Trixie:​ [simultaneously] Uh-huh, some great ones. And 5 still has some wonderful
episodes. I actually did an episode of a Buffy the Vampire Slayer podcast…
Jenny:​ Was it Slayerfest?
Kristin:​ Slayerfest… 98, yeah?
Trixie:​ Slayerfest, maybe? And I got to talk with, um, Clare…
Kristin:​ Kramer!
Trixie:​ Yes.
Kristin:​ Who we just—I just spoke with—I just did an interview with her.
Trixie:​ Yeah, and she was cool. She talked so much about how she loved playing
Glory. And she told the story of how she got the part, which was cool. She said she
was like, you know, "I was working on Bring It On and I was, like…" She was
say—kind of like, "let's be honest, I went out the night before." [laughter] And she
was like, "I did, like, scrunch spray in my hair. And I went in there and just made a
choice to channel Jack Nicholson in The Shining."
Kristin:​ [whispers] Yes!
Trixie:​ Just like, a little unhinged. And she's like, "I got it." She said she loved it.
And she said—she said of all the things she's done, she's like, people find it so
amazing that I was only in one season, because people remember me so strongly
from that series.
Jenny:​ Oh, yeah.
Trixie:​ Even though I'm only in ten episodes, or whatever?


Kristin:​ Right, it's funny, rewatching the season—
Trixie:​ She's barely in it.
Kristin:​ 'Cause for me, it's only my second—right! It's like, we have so many
episodes without Glory. And I'm like, I just—that's what I thought the whole season
was, was like, Glory in every episode. 'Cause she makes it count.
Trixie:​ She's so good in it. Oh my god.
Kristin:​ She's fucking incredible.
Trixie:​ And the looks. The hair and the looks and the shoes and—I mean.
Kristin:​ [sighs] The shoes. Ooh! I'm glad you said "the shoes." Because we got to
the end of the episode and we didn't do the Sexual Tension Awards.
Jenny:​ Okay.
Trixie:​ Oh, what's the Sexual Tension Awards?
Kristin:​ Okay.
Trixie:​ Which one?
Kristin:​ Well, I'm so glad that you asked. [Trixie laughs] So we, um—we do a
vote-off every episode. We give the listeners four nominations, and then they vote
on Twitter for who they think has the most sexual tension.
Trixie:​ Okay.
Kristin:​ It's been a rough string of episodes for us. You know, Season 3 was great.
It was basically Faith and Buffy were nominated every week, four times. Um, but…
Trixie:​ They did seem like at some point, they were just gonna kiss.
Kristin:​ Oh, Jenny has a whole theory. She'll tell you—
Jenny:​ Trixie! [Kristin laughs]
Trixie:​ Seriously, because—only 'cause people who hate each other that much, it's
very much in movies where they're fighting and then they have sex, you know?


Jenny:​ Mmm! Mm-hmm. [loudly] Also, consider for a moment—
Kristin:​ Oh, boy.
Jenny:​ Before they, like, went back to hating each other, when they were like, in
Bad Girls—when they were like, ​best friends.​ When Faith comes up to Buffy's
classroom window and, like, fogs up the window and draws a little heart and a little
stake and then Buffy just fucking… leaves class! And they go off together, in the
middle of the day. School, so it's like, before 3 PM sometime, right?
Trixie:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ [speaking quickly] They walk to the nest of vampires. The fucking… you see
the door. And the glowing sunlight outline from inside the crypt. And then there's
like a long string of ascendo and they kick open the door! And they both whip out
their stakes and then they kill all the vampires. And then hard cut to… them…
[clapping for emphasis] dancing, all over each other, at The Bronze. Gotta be at
least 9 PM. That's like, a six-hour window… [Trixie laughs] Minimum! What
happened in those six hours?!
Kristin:​ This is kind of her…
Trixie:​ You turn gay in that six hours.
Kristin:​ Yeah… [everyone laughs]
Jenny:​ Yeah, yeah. Yes.
Kristin:​ This is kind of Jenny's thing—
Jenny:​ Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa!
Kristin:​ It's becoming your practiced monologue.
Jenny:​ I just feel like—
Kristin:​ No, it's great!
Jenny:​ The people need to know.
Kristin:​ They do!


Trixie:​ The people have a right to know. [laughs]
Kristin:​ They do, they truly do. ​We​ truly do, I should say. Um, okay. So let's—
Jenny:​ Sorry, okay, right.
Kristin:​ No. Never be sorry, ever—
Trixie:​ Are Spike and Xander nominated? For their pool scene?
Kristin:​ Uh, if you'd like them to be.
Trixie:​ Oh, well—
Kristin:​ They will be.
Trixie:​ I thought 'cause their pool scene, they're standing there, two sticks, hello?
Kristin:​ Fuck yeah. [Jenny bursts into laughter] Alright, let's play the jingle and get
in.
[SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays]
Sexual tension award!
Kristin:​ Okay, so—
Jenny:​ That's what… they all said. [Kristin and Trixie laugh]
Kristin:​ Um, okay, so Trixie, you would like for Spike and Xander to be in the
running? One of the four?
Trixie:​ Well, yeah, I think so.
Jenny:​ That's only reasonable. It's—
Kristin:​ I agree. They're on my list.
Trixie:​ It's very, like, "women, huh? Well, you know… [Jenny and Kristin laugh]
There's other ways…" It's very that. It's very that. It's very like, "girl problems?
Hmm…" [laughter] You know?
Jenny:​ "That sounds rough."


Kristin:​ "One way to solve that," yeah. [laughs]
Jenny:​ "You look tense."
Trixie:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ [laughs] Great. Jenny, do have a—
Trixie:​ Women, can't live with them. I have a dress—a closet full of dresses.
[laughter] I've used that pickup line how many times! [laughter] "Women, can't live
with them? Why don't you have sex with me?" [laughter] Yeah. You know, it
works… a good 12% of the time, I'd say.
Kristin:​ Oh my god, just in case anyone thinks I'm not laughing— [Trixie laughs] I
had reached the point of laughter where it became silent, so…
Trixie:​ Do you guys get—do you guys nominate the people?
Kristin:​ Yeah, but do you have anyone else you'd like to throw into the ring? You
are our special guest of honor.
Trixie:​ I mean, I think that's the only ​clear​ one, right—I mean, obviously Buffy and
Spike again. Always.
Kristin:​ Uh, Jenny, do you have any nominations?
Jenny:​ Uh, I'm—I'm all about Xander fondly reminiscing while caressing his
crescent wrench.
Kristin:​ Yes.
Jenny:​ Uh, about when Riley was here, it seems like only yesterday.
Kristin:​ I know. And we've really been throwing Xander and Riley into the ring a
lot, but I'm sorry, Xander is shirtless, in bed, talking about a crescent wrench that
he didn't loan to Riley.
Jenny:​ To his girlfriend.
Kristin:​ To his girlfriend, so I agree.
Trixie:​ Yeah.


Kristin:​ They're in. And then—alright, I am—I said to Jenny before this taping, I
refuse to not put Buffy and the nun in the running. Because I wanna know what the
fuck happened with that wimple!
Jenny:​ Again, what happened in that window with the wimple?
Kristin:​ The wimple window! [laughter] What happened with it? And then, I
think—because, Trixie, you also brought it up. Giles and his British books would be
my fourth pick.
Trixie:​ Yeah, he loves the books! [laughs]
Jenny:​ The drool…
Kristin:​ He ​loves​ the books. Have either of you seen Little Women? The new one?
Trixie:​ No.
Jenny:​ Mm-mm.
Kristin:​ There's a fucking scene—it's literally the most intense porn I've ever seen.
It's a book-binding scene at the end. It is, like, the most salacious thing. If you've
seen the movie, you know. It's just them binding the book at the end, but it is like…
they are, like, folding the pages and then they stamp it and they brush off the gold
seal. And it—it's just really sexy, that's all I'm saying.
Trixie:​ Whoa.
Kristin:​ So those are our nominations. Go to BufferingCast on Twitter. The poll is
up for a week. Cast your vote.
Jenny:​ Make your voice heard!
Kristin:​ Yes.
Trixie:​ Your voice matters. [laughter]
Kristin:​ It does, this is a democracy.
Trixie:​ And if somebody wasn't nominated… angrily tweet at it, yeah. [Jenny
laughs]
Kristin:​ Yeah. Write in. Write-in votes always encouraged. [laughs]


Trixie:​ Yeah.
[SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays]
Sexual tension award!
Kristin:​ Um, okay. Trixie, I think that most of our listeners, since they have been
begging​ us to have you on the podcast, know where to find you?
Trixie:​ Oh my god! Of course!
Kristin:​ But will you tell them, like, what you're up to, where you would like for
them to find you?
Trixie:​ Well, I'm going all over the United States on tour for my 30-city tour.
Kristin:​ [whispers] Yes! [normal voice] Wow, that's a big tour.
Trixie:​ I just sign—I just flash, like, a lesbian bat signal to the sky. [laughter] And
we all just party.
Kristin:​ Yeah, we know where to look for it.
Trixie:​ Yeah. And then you can catch me weekly on queen's [sic] I Like to Watch
on Netflix, UNHhhh Season 5 is starting. Um. Buy my cosmetics and my new record
Barbara comes out on the 7th.
Jenny:​ Ahhh!
Kristin:​ [gasps] Holy shit.
Trixie:​ Yes!
Kristin:​ Is that the 7th of February that it comes out?
Trixie:​ Yes, in just, like, two weeks.
Kristin:​ Great.
Trixie:​ I know. Wild.
Jenny:​ Wow.


Kristin:​ Wow.
Trixie:​ Yeah. Thanks for having me.
Kristin:​ Ugh! God.
Jenny:​ Thank you for being here.
Kristin:​ Any time. As soon as we stop recording, you can tell us your whole list of
episodes. We'll have you on for any and all of them.
Trixie:​ Yes! And stream Night Shift on iTunes, how about that? [laughter]
Jenny:​ [laughing] What the hell!
Kristin:​ [laughing] Nice!
Trixie:​ What a great name for a record, by the way.
Jenny:​ Thank you so much.
Trixie:​ I was so jealous of it. Night Shift, it's so smart.
Kristin:​ [laughs] She's pretty smart.
Trixie:​ Shifting into night, and also, a night shift.
Kristin:​ Um, last request, Trixie. We howl out at the end. Jenny says "until next
time" and then we howl out. We would lo—be honored if you would howl out with
us.
Trixie:​ Oh yeah, sure.
Jenny:​ So. Till next time…
All three:​ Awwoooooooooo! [Trixie stops short to laugh]
[CHIME]
Jenny:​ We-heh-heh-hell! [Kristin laughs] We've barely survived.
Kristin:​ Truly.


Jenny:​ We barely made it out with our lives.
Kristin:​ Wow.
Jenny:​ Uh, reality is… coming, uh, unwoven at its fragile edges, but. Still we must
tell you that I'm Jenny Owen Youngs. When I'm not making this podcast, I make
songs! You can hear some of them at JennyOwenYoungs.com and learn more about
my musical endeavors. Also, I host another podcast. You can listen to me talk
almost as long as I talk on this podcast, about a different, tiny, petite blond
protagonist named Veronica Mars! That podcast is called Veronica Mars
Investigations, and you can find it wherever you find fine podcasts.
Kristin:​ Hell yeah. I'm getting really attached to hearing you say "petite." I just
want you to know.
Jenny:​ [laughs] Well, I did—
Kristin:​ It's becoming like a very satisfying—
Jenny:​ Spend months and months of my young life working at Petite Sophisticate,
as you recall. [laughter] So.
Kristin:​ Okay. We'll save that for another podcast discussion. In the meantime, I
am Kristin Russo and you can learn about what I do over at my website,
KristinNoeline.com. That's K-R-I-S-T-I-N-N-O-E-L-I-N-E. Namely, I do work with
LGBTQ communities. But I also just finished a wonderful journey on a little podcast
called The Boiler Room, where Joanna Robinson and I talked about all 19 episodes
of My So-Called Life. And guess what? This week, we put up a little surprise, an
interview with Winnie Holzman, the creator of the show which is so fun! So go on
over there and check that out. Also—
Jenny:​ Wow!
Kristin:​ Yeah! Really special. Also, spoiler alert, um, Joanna read Winnie a
message from and she cried. So! Go listen to it.
Jenny:​ Oh my god!
Kristin:​ Go listen to it! Okay! What about us? Where can they find us, Jenny?
Jenny:​ Well, Buffering the Vampire Slayer's on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram
@BufferingCast. And you can email us at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.


Kristin:​ Yes. And lastly, before we roll on into the wonderful song—get ready for a
bop! Uh, we wanna let you know that you can support the work that we do here,
you can join our Patreon family. Bufferingthevampireslayer.com, just click on
Patreon. You get tons of things. Songs—speaking of bops—you get the songs in
advance. You get to join the secret Facebook, if you're into it. The Slack group, if
you're into it. There's book clubs, there's concerts.
Jenny:​ Woo!
Kristin:​ There's all manner of fun things over there. Bonus episodes, as a matter of
fact. In just a couple of days, you're gonna get a Mailbag if you're a pledger over
there. So head on over there, support our work. It's gonna be great. Let me stop
talking so that we can get to the song.
[Jenny performing "Triangle" off the album Songs from Season 5 by Buffering
the Vampire Slayer]
Oh oh, Xander in the middle
Oh oh, Xander in the middle
Oh oh, don’t make Xander choose
My watcher took a trip to the land of tweed + scones
But when Giles’s away, witches gonna play, you know
Now get a load of the great big green-skinned hungry troll
With a thirst for mead + a hatred deep of puny receptacles
Oh oh, Xander in the middle
Oh oh, Xander in the middle
Oh oh, don’t make Xander choose
Oh oh, Xander in the middle
Oh oh, Xander in the middle
Oh oh, he’s got so much to lose
I might not have the best dating history
Though I’d never swipe right on a big green guy who likes to eat babies
But Anya, I feel ya, we all have some exes we’d sooner forget
(Olaf: It was just one wench!!)
Oh oh, Xander in the middle
Oh oh, Xander in the middle
Oh oh, don’t make Xander choose
Oh oh, Xander in the middle
Oh oh, Xander in the middle


Oh oh, he’s got so much to lose
Whoever will he save?
Stuck between a troll and a hard place
Well Sunnydale might be a wreck but we survived
And the triangle that caused trouble is back to circle vibes
No more Xander in the middle
No more Xander in the middle
Oh no, you can’t make Xander choose
No more Xander in the middle
No more Xander in the middle
Oh no, I won’t let Xander lose

