Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 6.03: After Life
[CHIME]
[both laughing]
Jenny:​ [laughing] Hello!
Kristin:​ Oh, Jenny Owen Youngs!
Jenny:​ [laughing] Hey, everybody!
Kristin:​ How are you doing?!
Jenny:​ [laughing] Oh my god.
Kristin:​ How are you feeling?
Jenny:​ Whew!
Kristin:​ What a—what a few days it has been!
Jenny:​ Well.
Kristin:​ Listen, we talked a little bit last episode about how we're sort of rooted in
an election cycle, as a podcast—
Jenny:​ Mmm.
Kristin:​ Because we had only just begun when the United States election—
presidential election happened in 2016. It shaped a lot of the work that we were
doing in this space. It shaped a lot of the community that has happened here. This
community has come together in some incredible ways. We have people who were
listening to the podcast who wrote in to say they ran for office. We have people
who have organized, we have people—I mean, like, you all have done a lot of shit
as a collective community. And so, fuck yes. Like, let us take a moment of
celebration to just, you know, feel good for a minute. [laughing] Let's feel good for
a minute.
Jenny:​ I don't… I don't recognize this feeling.


Kristin:​ [laughs] I posted on Twitter—I don't know if you saw it—but somebody
tweeted, like, "this is me trying to receive good news." And it's this raccoon who's
like, [Jenny laughs] poking his little hands out like, maybe this is a treat? But also,
maybe not. As I think our listeners are aware, there's so much work to be done.
And also, the election, you know, put in a bright shining light what we already saw
over the last four years, which is like, wow, there's a lot to do here. So it's
celebrating the good things and allowing ourselves to feel joy for a moment. But
also, I've felt a bit anxious over the last few days and I'm sure a lot of people have
too.
Jenny:​ Yes, a hundred percent. And could I just say, while we are really tuned in to
feeling good feelings where we can get them, and presidencies and that raccoon
you just brought up. [Kristin laughs] Could I tell you and everyone listening that I
just learned about Rebecca the raccoon, who was a raccoon kept as a pet by US
President Calvin Coolidge [Kristin gasps twice] and First Lady Grace Coolidge.
[Kristin gasps] Rebecca came from Mississippi. She was sent to the White House—
Kristin:​ What?!
Jenny:​ To be served for the 1926 Thanksgiving dinner—
Kristin:​ What?!
Jenny:​ Wha—served, like, I guess as food, but they decided to keep her as a pet
instead—
Kristin:​ Wait, they were gonna eat Rebecca—this has gone off the rails. [both
laugh]
Jenny:​ Sorry, I didn't—I didn't read all of this before I started reading it out loud.
[both laugh] But let me just tell you a couple more things. For Christmas, an
embroidered collar was made for her, inscribed with the title "White House
Raccoon"—
Kristin:​ Shut the fuck up.
Jenny:​ She enjoyed participating, as you might expect, in the annual White House
Easter egg roll. [Kristin laughs] She was also fed shrimp and persimmons. She was
let loose in the White House and walked on a leash outdoors. At times, she could be
mischievous, and was known to unscrew lightbulbs, open cabinets and unpot
houseplants.


Kristin:​ Oh. My. Fucking. God. Okay, petition begun for a new White House
raccoon. [laughs] But so yeah, Jenny, you know, I just—I'm happy to hold a little
bit of space here with you and with all of our listeners. We've been doing a lot
together, we're gonna keep doing a lot together. And we celebrated this weekend.
We celebrated and we took a deep breath and onward ho! Eh?
Jenny:​ How dare you. [clears throat] Hey, don't we have a live taping [both
laughing] coming up?
Kristin:​ Yes, we do. We do have a live taping coming up. We had to—
Jenny:​ On a very special day.
Kristin:​ We had to postpone our live taping that was scheduled in October, and we
moved it. So if you weren't able to do that or if you're catching up with the podcast
now, guess what? You're in luck. Our first live taping of Season 6 is happening on
Sunday, November 22nd. It's a day that has some meaning…
Jenny:​ I can't recall exactly what that's the anniversary of.
Kristin:​ Mmm.
Jenny:​ But—oh, right, of course! It's the day of my birth, the blessed day of my
blessed birth.
Kristin:​ Mmm. Yes—
Jenny:​ November 22nd. That is the day that I shall begin to be the same age as
Kristin, which is something I do every year for 25 days.
Kristin:​ You know what I just realized? I should get an advent calendar every year,
but instead of it leading up to Christmas, it should be celebrating—
Jenny:​ Yes.
Kristin:​ The 25 days that I get to be the same age as you. Ha!
Jenny:​ Delightful.
Kristin:​ Ha!
Jenny:​ Please.


Kristin:​ Yes, two 39-year-old hosts will be live on the internet—
Jenny:​ Mmm.
Kristin:​ November 22nd, at 6PM. [laughs]
Jenny:​ This is a once in a lifetime opportunity to see us tape an episode while
we're both 39.
Kristin:​ Yeah, you can grab tickets at bitly—bit.ly/LifeSerial. You can also go to the
calendar of events and you can find all the information there. Also, a lot of
you—especially people who are not in the United States—were like, hey, but what
about PayPal? You only are accepting credit cards. Well, guess what? I built a robot
to allow us to accept PayPal. [Jenny gasps] So if you go to either of those links,
you'll be able to use PayPal to buy a ticket if you don't have a credit card and want
to join us. So that's a fun thing. Jenny, you and I have to make sure that we get
hard hats. We—I promised that we would be wearing hard hats—
Jenny:​ Mmm.
Kristin:​ For the taping.
Jenny:​ Okay.
Kristin:​ So yeah, wow. Two hosts, both 39, both in east coast time zones—
Jenny:​ Incredible.
Kristin:​ Talking about things in hard hats. I mean, you really can't miss it.
Jenny:​ Looking forward to it.
Kristin:​ Mm, same.
Jenny:​ Now, listen. As we already addressed, there was an election. You know. But
it wasn't the ​only​ election.
Kristin:​ That's true.
Jenny:​ It wasn't the ​only​ democratic process to go on [Kristin laughs] in the
recent—very recent past. I'm of course talking about last episode's Sexual Tension


Awards! Listen. [sighs] You Tara and Willow purists. [Kristin laughs] I respect your
convictions, but how could you only give Tara and Anya hiding behind a rock 7% of
the vote and put them in fourth place? How could you allow them to be beaten out
by Tito and the Xand, in third place with 8% of the vote?
Kristin:​ I'm shocked.
Jenny:​ How further still—how further still could you leave Tara stroking Anya's hair
out in the cold in second place with a mere 22% of the vote? And why must you
insist, no matter what the circumstances and no matter who else is running...to
always award Willow and Tara the top slot, in this case, with 63% of the vote? I feel
like we gave you ​so​ many hot noms in all of our slots—
Kristin:​ No, Jenny—
Jenny:​ And you insist on—you always go back—
Kristin:​ That's—you took advantage of your position in this intro to say "slots and
noms" again. [Jenny laughs evilly] And I would like to—I would like to defend our
noble listeners—
Jenny:​ Mmm.
Kristin:​ In the fact that Tara literally put an ax in a demon's—
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ Back for Willow.
Jenny:​ It's true. It's true!
Kristin:​ So I—what I am—what I am actually most upset about is that we wrote an
entire script for a show called T-T-Tito and the Xand and you gave it 8%.
Jenny:​ Yes. Booo!
Kristin:​ I think that Tito and the Xand really deserved—
Jenny:​ How do we not take that personally, listeners?
Kristin:​ A better showing. Though rumor has it, Jenny—rumor has it that Episode 4
of this season, Flooded, may give us a little bit more of Tito and the Xand.


Jenny:​ Mmm!
Kristin:​ So—
Jenny:​ Well, something to look forward to.
Kristin:​ Congratulations to Butch Tara and Willow. We will be sending you your
trophies. They'll have little axes in their hands—
Jenny:​ Nice.
Kristin:​ [laughs] For you. In case you missed it, we released on Halloween a brand
new T-shirt, designed by Isabella Rotman. It is so beautiful. It says "you messed
with the wrong witch."
Jenny:​ That's right.
Kristin:​ And—really on brand right now.
Jenny:​ Mmhmm.
Kristin:​ I think—I think some people messed with some wrong witches. [both
laugh] And it has this incredible drawing of a witch on it, who is covered in Buffy
the Vampire Slayer themed tattoos. So really, it's just super fun. You can obviously
find all of our stuff at bufferingthevampireslayer.com. You can just click on Shop.
Those shirts are available in the UK store and the US store. And Jenny, you know I
like to read a little email from one of our listeners up at the front here. I figured I'd
stay on the witch theme.
Jenny:​ Hell yeah.
Kristin:​ You ready for an email from Tyler?
Jenny:​ I've never been more ready.
Kristin:​ Great. Tyler writes in, "Hey. Just finished this week's episode and I wanted
to email in with a little bit more of my witchy knowledge. For the record, Kristin,
you recounted your research on Aradia beautifully." Thank you so much, Tyler.
Jenny:​ Wow.


Kristin:​ "So Aradia in the mythology of Gospel of the Witches was sort of regarded
as the first witch on Earth. Her archetypal energy is very similar, in this humble
witch's opinion, to that of Jesus. She's a human of divine parentage sent to Earth as
a savior of the oppressed. What is extra fascinating to me is who Aradia's parents
actually are. [Jenny gasps] It is said that she's the daughter of Diana the moon
goddess—who we have heard invoked in the show before, in Season 2 by Amy—and
of Lucifer, the archangel and bringer of light. Diana and Lucifer were siblings."
[Jenny gasps] It's getting really Game of Thrones up in here! "As they grew, Diana
lusted after Lucifer and he spurned her advances. So Diana used a glamor to
assume the form of his beloved cat to lie in bed with him."
Jenny:​ Uhh…
Kristin:​ "Eventually, she seduced Lucifer and gave birth to Aradia."
Jenny:​ As the cat? Or in her Diana form?
Kristin:​ That's what I wanna know—
Jenny:​ You know what? None of my business.
Kristin:​ None of our business. Tyler does say, "Really dicey morally on Diana's
part. I've only read through the Gospel of the Witches once, but if you're interested
in learning more, Holy Strega by Raven Grimassi has been recommended to me in
the past and has more on the subject from a more relatable lens than the Gospel of
the Witches." The last thing in Tyler's email that made me really happy was that
they say, "On a more personal and serendipitous witchy note, I've been feeling an
overwhelming call to work with Aradia in my craft and had been holding out for a
sign. I definitely took her name-drop in my favorite podcast as confirmation." Hell
yeah!
Jenny:​ Ye-e-es! [both laugh] Yes!
Kristin:​ So, okay. You know, we should get into this episode. You've all been so
patiently waiting. We took last week off to just sit and count—we were counting
votes. We were just one—
Jenny:​ Mmhmm.
Kristin:​ Did you see the meme that was like, Nevada counting votes?
Jenny:​ [singing] One…


Kristin:​ [laughs] [singing] Another dream come true…
Jenny:​ [singing] Two…
Kristin:​ There's some great memes. I gotta—I gotta give it to the election for
memes, man.
Jenny:​ Mmhmm.
Kristin:​ They—the internet was really full of creative, wonderful, hilarious things.
We did take last week off, so we have this special Monday episode for you. And
Angel On Top will be back next week on November 13th. Mack MacDade is gonna
be talking to LaToya Ferguson about the next episode of Angel On Top. And you can
go to the calendar on our website and see the updated schedule. We basically just
pushed out a week, so you'll get us the week of November 25th.
Jenny:​ Hell… yeah.
Kristin:​ Deep breath, everyone.
Jenny:​ Mmhmm. [takes deep breath]
Kristin:​ As they say, just keep fighting. And hey, you know, we didn't put this
jingle in the podcast proper, Jenny, and it seems appropriate, given some of the
celebration that we are having.
Jenny:​ Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin:​ Let us continue together to smash…
[THE PATRIARCHY jingle plays]
The patriarchy! [thunder clap, evil laughter]
[Buffering theme plays]
Jenny:​ Hello! And welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast where we
are watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, one by one,
spoiler free. [Kristin laughs] I am… road-weary Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin:​ [laughs] And I am totally wide awake, ready to tackle the world, Kristin
Russo. Hey, this week we are here to talk to you about Buffy, Season 6, Episode 3,


After Life. I would like to report that Jenny Owen Youngs is sitting in a closet in the
dark recording this episode. It is a joy for me and perhaps, if you're lucky, I'll share
a picture with you, the internet.
Jenny:​ Please do not.
Kristin:​ Also being recorded in that closet is a song. Because every other week,
this podcast has an original song, written by road-weary Jenny Owen Youngs
herself, recapping the Buffy episode that we're discussing.
Jenny:​ That's right. Well! My personal injuries aside, After Life was written by Jane
Espenson and directed by David Solomon and originally aired on October 9th, 2001!
Just… [both laugh]
Kristin:​ We'll give you a pass this time, Jenny. Just a—
Jenny:​ I can't do math right now!
Kristin:​ Just a hop—just a hop, skip and a jump before your twenty… fifth birthday.
Jenny:​ Eth. Twentieth.
Kristin:​ Twentieth. Hey, this is the one where Buffy and her friends battle a demon
that may have hitched a ride with Buffy as she crossed into the world from another
dimension, another dimension! Also, I like that this—I like that whoever wrote ​this
IMDB summary was like, keeping it spoiler-free. Like, it may have hitched a ride.
Tune in and find out.
Jenny:​ Very thoughtful.
Kristin:​ Yeah. [laughs]
Jenny:​ Yeah!
Kristin:​ So… you know, I mean, magic. It always has its consequences, doesn't it,
Jenny?
Jenny:​ That's what they say.
Kristin:​ It is, it's what they say.
Jenny:​ It seems to not be what they consider. You know?


Kristin:​ [laughs] I mean, listen. One of my biggest issues, jumping into Season 6
of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, is the lack of consideration that has happened by the
Scooby gang in their efforts in the first two episodes. And like, I feel—so, you know.
We'll get to the—we'll get to the beat-by-beat, you know we will. But for a moment,
let me just talk about how it's Spike and Dawn, in this episode, who are the only
ones who have ​any ​fucking idea what to give to Buffy, what to do for Buffy, and
how to take care of this situation. Spike and Dawn, two of the three people that
were kept in the dark about this entire fucking plan.
Jenny:​ Mmhmm.
Kristin:​ The other one, of course, on his way—on a plane, apparently, back from
the UK. Thank god. He's probably used his personal item for the green mug so that
it will not be broken upon his return.
Jenny:​ [laughs] And you know if Giles was here, he would be Team Spike and
Dawn.
Kristin:​ Yes! Yes!
Jenny:​ What's wrong with these yahoos? Get it together, team!
Kristin:​ You know, and they just—they're fucking horrible in this episode! I've
never been so disappointed in the Scoobies as I am in this episode, After Life.
Jenny:​ Mmmm.
Kristin:​ Truly, truly. Very let down. Mom is ​very ​disappointed. [both laugh]
Incredibly let down. But… [sighs] I suppose we should start at the beginning. In the
alleyway, where else?
Jenny:​ [simultaneously] Start at the beginning!
Kristin:​ Where else, but an alleyway?
Jenny:​ Where else? And ahh, Xander's senses are ​primed f​ or danger! [Kristin
laughs] As you would expect.
Kristin:​ Yes. Unfortunately, they were not primed, because vroom-vroom, baby,
there goes the motorcycle gang.


Jenny:​ Hey.
Kristin:​ They almost run them over on their way outta town.
Jenny:​ I like that Xander refers to this as "the big skedaddle."
Kristin:​ Yeah, it reminds me of "the big switcheroo."
Jenny:​ Oh!
Kristin:​ The big Halloween switcheroo. You know? Similar vocab.
[Part of "Halloween" plays]
It's the big Halloween switcheroo
It's the big Halloween switcheroo
You don’t even know who you’re gonna be
It depends where you got your costume you see
It’s the big Halloween switcheroo
Kristin:​ So Jenny, all of Sunnydale is on fire. And the Scooby gang here, they're
walking through the streets, not—
Jenny:​ Man!
Kristin:​ Nary a one person. Nary a one, not a fireman, not a police officer—
Jenny:​ No.
Kristin:​ Nobody cares about Sunnydale on fire.
Jenny:​ And this is a ​casual ​stroll. [Kristin laughs] Everyone's just walking and
talking so casually, smelling the flowers. I mention this now 'cause I'm gonna talk
about it later. So just—
Kristin:​ Okay.
Jenny:​ Stick that in your pipe and do not yet smoke it, thank you.
Kristin:​ Okay. Pipe loaded, lighter… waiting.
Jenny:​ Nice.


Kristin:​ So, um, you know, Willow is like, it was really Buffy, right? This is the
beginning of Willow's, like, unraveling throughout this episode of—I mean, Willow
hits a lot of beats here. But this one—
Jenny:​ Mmm.
Kristin:​ This one is just her being like, uhhh, is it okay? Anya, just ramping it
up—Anya is non-fucking-stop in this episode. Anya's just like, coming in with the
hits. She says she's broken. You know, she doesn't think she's okay. And Willow is
like, what if she never gets over it? Where… I ask, is the plan for recovery for Buffy
the vampire slayer? Where is Buffy Summers' trauma recovery plan? How did we
not have one for her, upon her arrival?
Jenny:​ Oh, why make a plan when you can just go about bringing back the dead all
willy-nilly?
Kristin:​ God.
Jenny:​ I also think Anya is often picking up the torch where Cordelia dropped it.
Kristin:​ Mm.
Jenny:​ The person who says what everyone is probably thinking, but doesn't
wanna say.
Kristin:​ Yeah. Yeah. I mean, she literally does that for this entire episode. And
Spike too, you know?
Jenny:​ Yeah, yeah.
Kristin:​ I mean, Spike—but Spike and Anya are very Cordelia-esque in that way, of
just like, speaking this shit out loud. And… they're being quiet in all the wrong
places and loud in all the wrong places. You know, there's something to be said for
keeping Buffy a bit protected in these first few fucking hours, post digging herself
out of her own grave, for sure. But they're keeping her in the dark about things she
should be kept informed about. And they're informing her about shit that she need
not be informed of and being very loud about it. So. Dawn, returning home with
Buffy, after the tower has collapsed. They are back home and Buffy is looking, um,
very similar to Beer Bad Buffy, actually. I was thinking about the comparison, you
know. It's a very similar styling for her, post-grave and cavewoman Buffy.


Jenny:​ Totally. I love that they were like, well, when you die, your hair keeps
growing for a while. [Kristin laughs] So her hair is longer than it was.
Kristin:​ Mmhmm.
Jenny:​ And extra fluffy…
Kristin:​ So fluffy.
Jenny:​ And she's kinda, you know. She's a little—she's got some dirt around her
neck. Which, uh, will be addressed shortly.
Kristin:​ [sighs] Yeah, so. You know, Dawn says, "home." She's—you know. There's
this—there's a very big comparison in this episode and ones prior and perhaps the
ones that lie ahead between home and hell. Which is relatable content in this, the
year 2020. But then we go to the credits. And now, to your neck dirt topic, Jenny.
It seems like Dawn has given Buffy, like, a light pat-down with a washcloth in—
Jenny:​ You're gonna crawl through six feet of dirt after laying in a grave for three
months, five months, whatever it's been—
Kristin:​ Right?
Jenny:​ And you're not gonna get in the shower?!
Kristin:​ Right? Like, at least give the girl a bath—
Jenny:​ Get in the shower!
Kristin:​ Get her, like, a nice suds going. Let her soak herself. Her bones are
probably all creaky from being immersed in soil for 147 days. I mean, come on! So,
anyway. She's clean and the choice of post… resurrection outfit by Dawn is a white
shirt, which is an interesting choice since she has very bloody knuckles.
Jenny:​ Mmm.
Kristin:​ But it is—it actually is, like, costume to mood-wise, a good choice. Because
Buffy, when she dresses herself, dresses herself in a black shirt, later in the
episode. So I think, like, fine. Practically, no, but we get what you're trying to say
here. The Scoobies—everybody wants—
Jenny:​ Yes, yes. Theme recognized.


Kristin:​ Yeah. Everybody wants Buffy to be okay, and Buffy is like, guess what?
I'm fucking not.
Jenny:​ Mmhmm.
Kristin:​ I am not okay. The thing that I wanted to talk about—well, two things.
One is before they go up to clean up—you know, they're walking through the
house. And Buffy is disoriented already, as is, but is doubly disoriented because so
much is different in the house. Willow and Tara live there, and they've moved some
tables around in the room and what have you.
Jenny:​ Oh, yeah.
Kristin:​ And when she looks into the living room, she looks at a picture of Joyce
and they hold it a beat, you know, and—
Jenny:​ Ah!
Kristin:​ That's really rough, especially with what we learn in this episode. And you
know, just wondering if there was any kind of… I mean, she says—she talks about,
like, this warmth and that like, she was loved. And so you have to really wonder if
the biggest loss that she had in Season 5, which was her mom, is something that
she lost all over again… in—with this, with this resurrection.
Jenny:​ Yeah. [groans]
Kristin:​ And it's—yeah. It's rough. And then my second question for you, Jenny, is
what do you think happens after we die? Just a light—just a light, um—
Jenny:​ Uhhh…
Kristin:​ You know, just a super—
Jenny:​ Listen, I'm in a closet right now [both laughing] and it's very dark. I don't
know! What do ​you​ think happens?
Kristin:​ Something that I feel like I have experienced as a person growing up in a
Catholic family was the very rigid ideas around a lot of things that, like—
Jenny:​ [sarcastically] Hmm. Rigid, I don't know what you mean.


Kristin:​ You know, there was no room for not knowing, and that always bothered
me. So in a "what happens to us after we die" place, you know, a lot of my
extended family has this very, very visually explicit idea of like, we walk through
the gates and Jesus is there. And then we see all the people who we've lost before
us. And it's great, good on them. I mean, you know, screw a lot of them for a lot of
other reasons. But good on them that they have this wonderful picture [inaudible].
I've never believed that, but I have always believed that there is something. And so
I—like, I would say that I probably align with a bit of what Buffy describes. That
like, hey, you know what? I know that I'm limited enough in this human bag of
bones and skin to not be able to fucking know how to envision what that's like. But
I do think that there is some sense of it, that there's some sense of it, after.
Jenny:​ Some sense of, like, chilling?
Kristin:​ Yeah. Just like… you know when you have—you know, every once in a
while, you're just like, washing the dishes, and you just feel good. Just like, for no
fucking—just—you don't even know why it happened. But it's just there, and you're
like—there's this fleeting little peace inside. I think it's just like that—
Jenny:​ Mmm.
Kristin:​ Extended. Or I think it's just like being asleep where, you know, you don't
know where you go. A la Billie Eilish. [laughs]
Jenny:​ Right. Well, last night I had a very long, complicated, claustrophobic
dream—
Kristin:​ Ooh.
Jenny:​ The whole time I was asleep about travelling across Ireland in, like, a
two-person container that was like—[Kristin laughs] we were in a tunnel
underground and then we were on a mountain. It was very… bad. So I'm just
saying, sleep isn't always relaxing.
Kristin:​ [sighs] Cool. Well. [both laugh]
Jenny:​ Well, I mean, listen. Just two sides of the coin.
Kristin:​ [laughs] Okay, well, anyway. I'm curious about afterlife thoughts, you
know? I would love—I would love for you to write in to me, Kristin Russo, at
bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com and tell me what you think about the


afterlife and if they're scary enough, I'll forward them to Jenny Owen Youngs, to
read in the dark of her closet. [both laugh]
Jenny:​ Lit from below by my iPad only. Also, if you wanna tell Kristin, when you're
writing in, what you think will happen specifically to me when I die.
Kristin:​ [laughing] Oh my god!
Jenny:​ That would rock.
Kristin:​ [laughing] That's so creepy. [both laugh] Bringing Halloween right into the
shiny month of November for you over here.
Jenny:​ Yeah, so Buffy's just on a little speed tour of the house on Revello Drive.
And Dawn is like, [singing] "could you please slow down?" And Buffy is like, "no!
What else is different?" And Dawn's like, "well. Giles left today." It's interesting that
she doesn't say where he went.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ But, you know, he'll come right back, somebody's gonna call him. And then,
[gasps] a noise from downstairs—
Kristin:​ Ugh!
Jenny:​ Spike is back!
Kristin:​ Ugh!
Jenny:​ Spike has returned.
Kristin:​ Ugh! Okay, so Spike has two incredible, like, quip-slash-lines before the
moment that then will, like, take us deep into Spike feelings territory, [laughing]
which is an—
Jenny:​ Mmm. Mmhmm, mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin:​ He says—first he says, you scared me—to Dawn. He's calling up to Dawn
from the bottom of the stairs. "You scared me half to death." And then he
reconsiders it. "Or… more to death." Which I appreciate. [both laugh] And then he
says, "I—I'm so angry with you, I could rip your head off and drink from your brain
stem." Glorious, glorious.


Jenny:​ Now… a question for our beautiful, scientifically-inclined listenership.
Kristin:​ Oh.
Jenny:​ Does anybody know if there's anything you could drink out of the human
brain stem? You know, kind of easily. Like, if suddenly, Spike were to have a head
and attached brain stem, in his hand—
Kristin:​ Mmhmm.
Jenny:​ Would he actually be able to drink anything out of there, or is this more of
a—like, hyperbolic or whatever.
Kristin:​ Wow, can't wait to report back on our findings for that. [both laugh]
Jenny:​ Don't forget to write in to Kristin at bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
[both laugh]
Kristin:​ So Jenny, you and I were supposed to tape this episode live. This was our
planned live taping. But then you got ill. Thankfully, you are better, and also now
3,000 miles from where you once were. Over here—
Jenny:​ It's true!
Kristin:​ Yes, your podcast hosts are reunited on the east coast in the same time
zone. What will happen?
Jenny:​ Wooo!
Kristin:​ But I'm really glad that we are instead taping Life Serial together, because
I really didn't—on my first viewing, like, I did not realize how intense this entire
episode was, with Spike and Buffy.
Jenny:​ It's pretty intense.
Kristin:​ I knew that obviously there's the big reveal at the end. But yeah, this is
devastating. The beginning of the devastation of… I was thinking about this. So—
Jenny:​ [laughing] Oh, good.


Kristin:​ [laughs] I think that I'm a person—I don't know if you would put yourself
in this category, Jenny, but you may. I think I'm a person who's walked through,
like, a pretty decent amount of loss in my life. You know, like, there's been some
fucking serious shit that has happened in my near-to-40 years. Not there yet, real
close, but not yet. [both laugh] And—
Jenny:​ Make every second remaining count.
Kristin:​ Yes. And I have found that I have a very immediate and instant connection
when I engage with somebody who has… lost. Who has—who has, you know,
experienced loss, of varying kinds. You know, I'm talking about, you know, losing a
parent or losing a pregnancy or losing a marriage or losing—you know, there's a
lot. And so it doesn't have to be the exact same loss that, like, I have gone
through. But I feel that there's a connection and I just, like, really picked that up on
this most recent watch of After Life, of, oh okay, Spike and Buffy are—they're on
the same level now.
Jenny:​ Mmm.
Kristin:​ They've seen—I mean, you know, it's quite literally laid out for us, with
Spike knowing that she has dug herself out of her own grave because he has dug
himself out of his own grave. So that's the way they spell it out for us, but I feel
like one of the metaphors in it is that they have both seen that piece of life that is
so dark and so hard, that you can't really look at it for very long and you have to
kind of move to the edge. But you can always see that in people, I think. So that's
my deep thoughts. I'm so sorry, I'm full of deep thoughts. It's a—you know, it's
November 2020. So like, fucking give me a break. [laughs]
Jenny:​ Yeah, yeah, yeah. [sarcastically] What? I was—is anything serious going
on? [laughs] Anything got you on edge? Huh. Um… yeah, I think we really are—this
is the beginning.
Kristin:​ Mmhmm.
Jenny:​ This is the first layer of foundational bricks being… masoned? Hmm. [Kristin
laughs] Whatever. You get it.
Kristin:​ I mean. His fucking—his face when he realizes—like, split second. It's like,
we kind of are reliving the moment when he kissed Buffy, right? The, like—the—
Jenny:​ Mmhmm.


Kristin:​ And it was Buffy and not the Buffybot and he knew? It was—it's like that,
replayed, where he's like, bot, not a bot. And… Buffy very, like, self-consciously
buttons her shirt. She's very, very vulnerable in this entire episode, especially the
first, like, three-quarters of the episode. And she—you can tell that she feels, like,
very exposed, in many ways. And so she's like, hiding her hands, buttoning her
shirt. Spike so gently walks her into the living room. And she, I think, asks the first,
like, real, real, real question to him, because of that trust.
[Clip from episode plays]
Buffy:​ How long was I gone?
Spike:​ 147 days yesterday. 148 today. Except today doesn't count, does it?
Kristin:​ Ugh, and then he says, "How long was it for you?" Again, this like—he
knows—he knows the questions to ask. He knows the questions not to ask.
Jenny:​ Mmhmm.
Kristin:​ She senses that, and is just completely real with him. And he also is
gentle.​ He ​listens—
Jenny:​ So gentle.
Kristin:​ To her. When she says "longer," and you see his face. I don't know that
I've seen an actor deliver listening so completely, intensely and perfectly as James
Marsters does in that last beat of this scene. He is fully, completely there for her.
And really wanting to, like, make sure that she knows she has an ally in this
traumatic fucking experience. I mean, we see him—
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ Later in the episode literally punch a wall. His hands mirror her hands.
Jenny:​ Mmhmm.
Kristin:​ He wants to—he wants to carry this, with her. Which is what is so hard to
witness here. Because we've been on such a journey with Spike. And you know, we
saw how he was broken at the end of Season 5 with the loss of her. And… you
know. We're gonna have a lot to navigate. That's all I'll say.
Jenny:​ Yeah. And then… this is weird. Then a herd of wild water buffalo—


Kristin:​ I mean, seriously.
Jenny:​ Just trample in the front door. I didn't even know there were water buffalo
in Sunnydale.
Kristin:​ This fucking—yeah. They got outta the fucking zoo, man. They left the
hyenas behind—
Jenny:​ Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin:​ And fucking came rolling in. Oh my god, they're awful! They're awful.
They're just like, loud. You know, first of all, like—
Jenny:​ So loud.
Kristin:​ The loudness of it? It—it's just like—you know. It's like a—
Jenny:​ It really highlights, like, the contrast between like, the interaction that—
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ She's having with Spike and the interaction they're trying to have with her.
Kristin:​ Yeah. Yeah, and you know—and I know that that's the point. But I do
wanna say that I think—I don't think Tara would have shown up in this gang like
this. I think that Tara would have been on the Dawn/Spike page. She just seems
like she is way more intuitive than this, and to know to make them be quiet. And I
know, they have to be the united quartet so that we can have this parallel.
Jenny:​ Right, right, right.
Kristin:​ But you know.
Jenny:​ Oh, yeah! This herd of buffalo—here's where I wanna come back to their
casual stroll through the flaming alleyways of Sunnydale. They bust in through this
door like, out of breath like they've been sprinting all the way here. [Kristin laughs]
But they haven't been. They were doing their walk and talk, covering a lot of
expositional ground, really just taking their time, you know? Exploring the space.
Kristin:​ Ugh. And it's Dawn who is the one to say—first of all, she's like—


Jenny:​ Back off.
Kristin:​ You fucking knew she was back? What the fuck did you do? Dawn doesn't
say that, but let me tell you what, Dawn would say that if this was not on
television. [laughs]
Jenny:​ Mmm. Uh, yeah.
Kristin:​ So she's like, "guys, back off." And they're basically like, oh, okay, yeah,
you're right. We should ask Buffy what she wants. Which also, is not a good—like,
none of their ideas are good. And Buffy says—[both laugh] Buffy says, "I wanna go
to sleep." And then Willow has one of the worst lines of the episode, though she has
a couple other [Jenny groans] pretty shitty ones before this one's out. "But Buffy,
be happy. We got you out." It's really rough, especially when you look at—I
mean—telling somebody who's just suffered a measurable trauma to find happiness
is not the way. It's literally never the way. You know?
Jenny:​ Yeah. I get where Willow was coming from, because they've had five
months—it's been five months, right? Yes. 147 days, about five months.
Kristin:​ Sure. Yeah. Sure.
Jenny:​ So they've had five months to really drill down on the idea that like, Buffy is
definitely—has definitely been in a hell dimension.
Kristin:​ Right, right.
Jenny:​ Because she had a, you know, paranormal…
Kristin:​ Mystical death, yeah.
Jenny:​ Fucking—dimensional rift death. [both laugh] Or whatever. And so I get
where Willow was coming from. But even when Angel came back, Buffy didn't like,
jump to conclusion—you know what I mean? She, like—
Kristin:​ Yes.
Jenny:​ Felt the situation out. She was reading the room nonstop.
Kristin:​ Yeah. Yeah. Anya giving us the second of many joys in this episode from
her. "Jet lag from hell has gotta be… jet lag from hell." [laughs]


Jenny:​ Nice. [laughs] Followed by, when everyone seems a little stressed out that
Buffy went to bed, and Willow says, "She's fine! She used to go to bed all the time."
Kristin:​ All the time! [both laugh]
Jenny:​ Which is nice.
Kristin:​ What we didn't say is the moment that the herd of water buffalo comes in,
Spike—
Jenny:​ Oh, Spike—
Kristin:​ Is out.
Jenny:​ Swoops out, yeah.
Kristin:​ He doesn't even—he doesn't even acknowledge them. He just fucking
leaves. It's like—it's like magnets facing the wrong way, you know. Just like, boom,
one comes in, the other shoots out. Anya and Xander… leave. I didn't mean to say
"Xander" like Spike does when he does an American accent. [both laugh] It just
happened. And you know, they have a brief exchange, kind of acknowledging that
it's ridiculous that they would think that Buffer—that—[laughs] that Buffy—
Jenny:​ That "Buffering" would be okay?
Kristin:​ Well, I almost said "buffering" because Xander calls Buffy "Bufferin." Which
I thought was funny—
Jenny:​ Right, right.
Kristin:​ 'Cause it's only one letter off from the name of our podcast, but—
Jenny:​ Mmm.
Kristin:​ Yes. Essentially, Anya is like, oh yeah, sure, six to fucking seven days,
that's all you need after, like, being tormented in a hell dimension, to recover.
Spike is crying at the tree.
Jenny:​ Spike is… in his pla—at his place. Spike's place.
Kristin:​ [laughs] Spike's tree.


Jenny:​ Now this is interesting. He grabs Xander by the collar and puts him up
against the tree and feels no neurological pain.
Kristin:​ Interesting. You think it's because he has no—'cause he has to have an
intent—
Jenny:​ 'Cause it's not—it's intent, right?
Kristin:​ Right, it's intent. And so he—
Jenny:​ So—
Kristin:​ He doesn't wanna hurt—he's not—his plan is not to hurt Xander.
Jenny:​ Right. Right, right, right. But I think there are other situations in which,
like, he could have made a similar move and experienced pain. But his, like,
motivation is so… pure. Right?
Kristin:​ Right, right. It's like, he's—he's so devastated. And the fact that
Spike—that we are seeing Spike say to Xander, you didn't tell me. I worked beside
you all summer. It's so—I don't think we've ever seen Spike say anything like that.
Jenny:​ No, god, no.
Kristin:​ He's so vulnerable. He's like, genuinely hurt—
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ And feels so betrayed.
Jenny:​ And then he, um, turns a little flashlight on.
Kristin:​ Mmhmm.
Jenny:​ And highlights for Xander that Willow must have opted to keep him out of
the loop, and Dawn—
Kristin:​ Mmhmm.
Jenny:​ And Giles—
Kristin:​ Mmhmm.


Jenny:​ Probably, all for the same reason, that if—that she knew there was a
possibility—
Kristin:​ Mmhmm.
Jenny:​ Buffy might come back not totally Buffy. And that something might have to
be done about it. Right?
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ And that Spike, Dawn and Giles are all people…
Kristin:​ Mmhmm.
Jenny:​ Who potentially would not let that happen.
Kristin:​ Yeah. A thousand percent. And this, like, really dovetails quite nicely with
the fact that in Episode 1 of this season, we saw Willow kill a cute little [New York
accent] doe-eyed deer. [Jenny laughs] And this is… [laughs] sorry, but I'm not
gonna just say a deer.
Jenny:​ Mmm.
Kristin:​ We've seen that Willow is hiding things already, and that Willow is capable
of things that we would not have thought her capable of. And I don't mean her
magical talents. I mean her ability to kill a fucking animal, a baby—a little tiny
animal—to bring her best friend back and, you know, allegedly out of a hell
dimension, sure. But Spike is—Spike is spot-on. Spike is fucking—Spike is always
spot-on—
Jenny:​ Mmhmm.
Kristin:​ With his assessments of the situation. You know, he really knows what the
fuck is up. And Xander is shaken by this. Like, he tries to play it off like he's not,
but he says, "Willow wouldn't do that." And we see him obviously—like, there's a
few scenes later—asking Tara about it. Because he—
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ He does have a little spidey sense that maybe Willow could do that. And
what the fuck does ​that​ mean?


Jenny:​ Yeah, a lot of questions about "what does that mean" with regards to
Willow lately. And then Spike reminds us, of course, on his way to his little motor
scooter, that magic always has consequences. Something we hear all the time, but
no one ever seems to take into account.
Kristin:​ I agree. Also, can you even believe that Spike has not had a motorcycle
until now?
Jenny:​ It's pretty stupid. The only reason that I can think of is because of the sun.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ But he should definitely be nighttime motorcycling.
Kristin:​ Agree!
Jenny:​ Get outta here.
[SPIKE jingle plays]
Spike! I love you
Spike! So dreamy
Spike! Your trench coat
Spike! I love you
Spike! Your black nails
Spike! Peroxide
Kristin:​ I mean, we know now, you know, that's how the Pride parade begins every
year, with the Spikes—
Jenny:​ Spikes on Bikes? [Kristin laughs] Wow. Gotta go. [laughs]
Kristin:​ Um, cool. So, yes. Spike says the thing that underlines the whole point of
this episode, which is, the thing about magic is there's always… consequences. In
this case, in the form of a CGI blob that also is—
Jenny:​ Oh, yeah.
Kristin:​ A bit misty, at one point, and who—
Jenny:​ Hey!


Kristin:​ [creaky voice] "Has a crazy kind of a Babadook voice." [both laugh]
Jenny:​ Listen, states of matter, especially when it comes to paranormal beings and
supernatural beings, is fluid.
Kristin:​ They are. They are. I know you know this, Jenny. I've begun my watch of
Vampire Diaries and there's a lot of fucking mist and fog—
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ In that universe.
Jenny:​ Yeah, I hope this doesn't accidentally become a Vampire Diaries podcast.
[both laugh] 'Cause there's a lot to talk about.
Kristin:​ There really is. So for now, let's talk about Tara brushing her hair. Oh, do
you think she does a hundred strokes?
Jenny:​ Hey! Probably, it looks very silky smooth. But listen, I'm building… I've got
a great big stack of logs in my yard right now. And I'm gathering some twigs and I
have some newspaper and a long stem lighter. And I'm going to make a very large
fire and I'm going to collect Willow and Tara's pajamas and I'm going to burn them.
[Kristin laughs] I feel… so—there's so much adult clothing on 20-year-olds. You
know what I mean? Well, it's sort of like, Willow's pajamas look like children's
clothing. Tara's pajamas look like they came on an American Girl doll. [Kristin
laughs] It's like, well, when you're changing your American Girl doll's outfits from
her, like, school skirt set to her, like, outdoor birdwatching getup, you don't wanna
have a naked doll. So she's gotta have some very, you know, Puritan feeling white
underset. [laughs]
Kristin:​ Mmhmm.
Jenny:​ You know what I mean?
Kristin:​ I do. I—let me let you go on your pajama rundown roll call. [laughs]
Jenny:​ No, I should just—I've already tuckered myself out. Please go on.
Kristin:​ Last episode or two episodes ago, who knows what time and space are?
But at some point in the recent history of the podcast, I was talking about my
frustration about the sort of like de-sexed nature of Tara and Willow's relationship.
And like—


Jenny:​ Right.
Kristin:​ Just like my frustrations around that. And somebody wrote in and
made—and brought up, like, a really good point. And said, you know, as somebody
who's asexual, I felt really hurt to hear you talk about their relationship—to talk
about it like, the sex is what makes a relationship. And I—that was my not my
intention, but hey, intention/impact. So I just wanted to clarify that what I mean is
not that a relationship needs to include sex to be a valid relationship.
It is just that often, gay male couples are portrayed as, like, fucking all the time.
And, you know, queer female couples are portrayed as just like, gently stroking
each other's cheeks. And that—there's—gender is in there, and I just—I would like
it to be that, like, men can have meaningful relationships without fucking. And I
would like it to be that women can fuck. That's all I'm saying, is that like, I would
like a full palette. And my frustration with this is that I feel we don't have a lot of
representation at this point in time, in history, so it's just interesting to me. That's
all. It's a thing to think about, but I fully respect all of you in the asexual
community.
Jenny:​ Absolutely, and also, if you love to fuck in, like, American Girl, Puritan-style
pajamas? Like—
Kristin:​ Of course.
Jenny:​ No shade to you either, I celebrate that.
Kristin:​ Absolutely not. Yeah, yeah. You've—[laughs] you go ahead and fuck in
your Puritan pajamas.
Jenny:​ Please.
Kristin:​ You do whatever you need to do.
Jenny:​ We'll wait. [Kristin laughs] You can pause the pod and come back.
[AD BREAK]
Kristin:​ Okay so, you know, back to… these two, Tara and Willow. You know,
Tara's sort of like, "if you're worried, you can tell me." They get into bed together.
She's like, trying to soothe Willow. And you know, they're talking about, basically,
the lack of preparation for things to have gone right, which is also what we've been


talking about. And then they get to this place where Willow is like, "wouldn't you
think she'd be happier?" And Tara clocks: "she hasn't said thank you. Like,
you—you were looking for gratitude." And Willow says, "Would I be a horrible
person if I said yes?"
Jenny:​ And we're like, yes!
Kristin:​ [laughs] Exactly, thank you for—thank you for taking that joke bait. [both
laugh]
Jenny:​ Give it a minute, Willow!
Kristin:​ I mean, like, it's nice that Willow feels safe enough with Tara to admit
to—we all have feelings that—
Jenny:​ Totally.
Kristin:​ We know are like, okay, blah-blah-blah. So like, I have space for it. But it
is an issue that—and the issue isn't that Willow is looking for gratitude. The issue is
that Willow knows that she did something she should not have fucking done. Like,
that's​ the issue.
Jenny:​ Mmm. Mmm.
Kristin:​ She's not looking for gratitude 'cause Willow is a person who, like,
need—does things for gratitude. That's not what it is.
Jenny:​ Mmhmm.
Kristin:​ It's that, like, the gratitude would absolve her—
Jenny:​ Would be validating, yeah. Totally.
Kristin:​ Exactly. Exactly.
Jenny:​ Over in the other room. Buffy takes a moment to look over her many
photos with friends. And you know how sometimes, you know, you go to a
bachelorette party and you got a little disposable camera. And you get them
developed and they come back and they have a little frame around the picture of
penises or… [Kristin laughs] maybe you don't—you're not at a bachelorette party
[laughing] and you have a disposable camera and it has, like, a little frame around
it when you get the pictures developed of anything other than penises—


Kristin:​ Of penises. Just also. [laughs]
Jenny:​ Just recreational penises. [both laugh] Yo! No Buffering—no context
Buffering Cast. [laughing] Recreational penises! [both laugh] Well, it looks like
Buffy went to the photo shop that does the thing where, when you develop photos,
you can get it set so that when you turn the photos in the light, you go from a
regular face to skull face, to a regular face, to a skull face.
Kristin:​ [simultaneously] Oh, the hologram. Yes, the old—ye olde skeleton
hologram choice—
Jenny:​ [simultaneously] Yeah, skull—skull-ogram.
Kristin:​ At CVS, yes.
Jenny:​ Mmhmm.
Kristin:​ Singles, doubles, or skeleton holograph—
Jenny:​ Yes.
Kristin:​ How would you like your photos developed? [both laugh] Remember photo
collages, though? Like, everybody fucking had a photo collage. It was just all we
did, was fucking take photos and put them on walls and in mirrors. Would love a
photo collage.
Jenny:​ Listen. It was a different time.
Kristin:​ Mmhmm.
Jenny:​ Doomscrolling had not yet been invented, so we just all had so much free
time. [both laugh]
Kristin:​ We would just scroll through, like—run our eyes across our dorm room
walls to doomscroll—
Jenny:​ Oh, yeah.
Kristin:​ Looking at all of the memories that we had placed there.
Jenny:​ Yeah, the original doomscroll. [both laugh]


Kristin:​ If you haven't looked at the photos, you should go back and just enjoy the
one that is of Willow and Anya. It's like—
Jenny:​ Oh my god, Anya is making such a—they are in two different photos. You
know what I mean?
Kristin:​ It's so funny.
Jenny:​ Anya's [sic] like, "hi!"

Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ And Anya's [sic] like, Blue Steel. Or whatever the fuck. [both laugh]
Kristin:​ Wow. Fucking—who had Blue Steel on their Bingo card? 'Cause I didn't.
[both laugh] Okay, so. Right. So the pictures change to skeletons, dead people,
whatever, and then they change back. Meanwhile. "You're like filthy little bitches!"
says weird—
Jenny:​ Ah, yes.
Kristin:​ Buffy demon thing.
Jenny:​ Yeah…
Kristin:​ "Rattling the bones!"
Jenny:​ [simultaneously] I like to wake my friends—oh my god! [both laugh] I like
to wake my friends up by throwing a nice projectile into a glass-framed poster
above their bed. You know?
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ Just a little rain of shattered glass.
Kristin:​ Speaking of the [New York accent] "cute little doe-eyed deer," the Buffy
manifestation demon thing, whatever, says, "Did you cut its throat?"
Jenny:​ Oh, god.


Kristin:​ "Did you pat its head?" Which totally is—
Jenny:​ Blegh!
Kristin:​ Right? That's totally—I mean, this demon is real, like, willy-nilly. This
demon—the properties of this demon are just whatever they need to be in any
given moment. It can—
Jenny:​ Mmm.
Kristin:​ It can make a new Buffy. It can possess a body. It can—like, it's just—just
whatever. So—but I did think in this moment, at least—
Jenny:​ [laughs] It's like an infomercial demon.
Kristin:​ [laughs] Call before 9 PM, and you will get a free infomercial demon with
your original purchase of infomercial demon.
Jenny:​ Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin:​ So, whatever. It's scary, it's great. The horror in this episode is very, very
fun. It's very, very fun, especially when we get to Anya in a minute. And then, you
know, they basically realize—Buffy disappears. There's no glass in the bed.
Jenny:​ Yeah. Yeah, Buffy disappears when Willow does something that people, like,
never do in horror movies and it makes me so mad. She turns on the light. [Kristin
laughs] What any responsible person would do in such a situation.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ You turn that fucking light on, please! Thank you very much!
Kristin:​ [laughing] Fair. Fair.
Jenny:​ I don't remember which one of them says this, but I wrote down just the
quote, "What in the frilly heck is going on?" [Kristin laughs] The frilly heck, I say.
Kristin:​ I think it's Willow.
Jenny:​ And then we see something moving in the walls! CGI bubble!
Kristin:​ It's a snake, it's a snake, it's a teenie-tiny snake! [laughs]


Jenny:​ Yeah, who knows.
Kristin:​ Yes. So they call Xander to warn him, and Anya is like, fully inhabiting
Kristin Russo… mode here. "Are you awake? Are you awake? [laughing] Will you
talk to me? [Jenny laughs] I'm awake. If I'm awake, you have to be awake. Wake
up, wake up, wake up." And then the clear phone, the 2001 clear phone rings on
the headboard.
Jenny:​ Wow.
Kristin:​ But also, sorry. I know maybe our episodes are getting longer, and you
know what? Take me or leave me, as Maureen says to Joanne. [laughs] But the
game that Anya wants to play with Xander is, "I'm going to describe an adjective
[Jenny laughs] with accurate but misleading clues." And like, when she said it, I
was like, ooh! This will be fun, I'll try to play it with Jenny. And then I was like, this
doesn't make any sense. I don't understand how you could describe an adjective
with accurate but misleading clues.
Jenny:​ Well. I'm sorry I didn't prepare anything. But you know how, like, a
crossword will have accurate but misleading clues?
Kristin:​ Ohhh.
Jenny:​ But it's weird that she specifically wants to do adjectives.
Kristin:​ Right. Adjective is what really—
Jenny:​ I'm gonna describe a description.
Kristin:​ Describe a description, exactly. I'm like, how do you describe "smelly" in a
misleading way?
[long pause]
Jenny:​ I'll have to get back to you. [both laugh]
Kristin:​ Anyway. Then Anya goes into the kitchen and brings a butcher knife back
and slices her whole face open. And it's scary.
Jenny:​ Eek! Eek!


Kristin:​ And it's great.
Jenny:​ Her eyes are all white.
Kristin:​ And Emma Caulfield—Emma Caulfield's fucking face when she's like,
coming through the door, it's so good.
Jenny:​ What is this even—I guess it just, like, scares Xander. [laughs] But I was
just wondering, 'cause I feel like—
Kristin:​ That's what I mean.
Jenny:​ Sometimes it has a purpose.
Kristin:​ Yes.
Jenny:​ Sometimes it's just fucking around. You know?
Kristin:​ Right. And—and like, I know it's a newborn demon, right? 'Cause they
manifested it. But I don't know that we've ever seen a demon of any kind who does
not know what it's after. And that's what's so confusing—
Jenny:​ Mmm.
Kristin:​ Is that until later, when the demon finds out how it can live forever, it
doesn't know what the fuck it's after. So what is it doing? It's just literally fucking
around. It's just fucking around.
Jenny:​ These are great questions. These are great, great questions. [both laugh]
Kristin:​ Anyway. Outside! Is this the first time we've been in the Summers' yard?
Jenny:​ Um. Well, I think we've seen the back porch before—
Kristin:​ Yes, of course.
Jenny:​ Because that one time Spike was gonna kill Buffy—
Kristin:​ Pat-pat. [laughs]
Jenny:​ But we've never seen this much of the yard. And what a lovely yard—


Kristin:​ Lovely.
Jenny:​ It appears to be. Gosh.
Kristin:​ Right? Some nice furniture, it looks like teak. You know?
Jenny:​ Mmhmm. [laughing] Yep, it does look like teak.
Kristin:​ [laughing] Doing alright.
Jenny:​ Help, we're old. [both laugh] They're theorizing and Anya's like, I bet it's a
hitchhiker. There are, like, these—you know, demons who ride across—they like,
catch a ride across dimensions.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ And then she says, we kill the beastie and we're rolling in puppies. Which is
what I'm always saying to you, Kristin, about this podcast!
Kristin:​ Kill the—kill the beastie and then we can just roll around in puppies?
[laughs]
Jenny:​ Yeah, I mean, I've gotten Frank. So far.
Kristin:​ Uh-huh.
Jenny:​ I just need one more puppy.
Kristin:​ A few more—one?
Jenny:​ And then—[crosstalk]
Kristin:​ That's all it takes? Okay.
Jenny:​ Well, two is plural. You know? So it—
Kristin:​ Is plural. I just didn't know if it would be enough puppies—
Jenny:​ Three or four would be better.
Kristin:​ Yeah, 'cause—in a roll—


Jenny:​ Inarguably.
Kristin:​ Like, you… roll around in two puppies is just—[crosstalk]
Jenny:​ Totally. And just more pup—the more, the merrier.
Kristin:​ Yes, yes. The more, the puppier. Anyway. "I knew it was gonna end
badly," Anya says. "I should have said something." Love that. [Jenny laughs] Love
that! Buffy comes out. She hears them saying that they're maybe gonna be killing a
demon. "What are we killing?" Anya, again, zing! "A demon that you brought back
from hell with you." [both laugh] Don't worry, Anya will get her jingle, but I—I have
a particular place where I would like Anya—
Jenny:​ Oh, okay.
Kristin:​ To get her jingle. It is not yet, but it will be in this podcast.
Jenny:​ Buffy catches them up on the skull photos from CVS. And says, you know, I
saw them and I thought I was just, you know, like, going crazy, but I guess
something else is going on. [laughing] And then Anya, very helpfully, is like,
"Maybe you ​are​ going crazy, from ​Hell​."
Kristin:​ [laughing] "No, no, no," she says, "you're fine. You're fine." [both laugh]
She, like, finally catches on and it's like, seven hours too late.
Jenny:​ It's great. It's great.
Kristin:​ Sarah Michelle Gellar—just like, before we get to the Magic Box—is really
remarkably performing again. She looks—
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ Like, I think probably the costume department gave her clothing a little bit
bigger than usual, 'cause she looks very small and frail when she's standing in the
yard with them.
Jenny:​ Mmm.
Kristin:​ She—her speech is, like—you know, the way she's communicating—is
she's stopping, she's pausing. She's kinda disoriented at moments.
Jenny:​ Yeah.


Kristin:​ It's just really effective.
Jenny:​ Stilted, like, in the exact right way.
Kristin:​ Yes.
Jenny:​ It's research time! Yay! [Kristin laughs] They're looking for possible
hitchhikers. They've narrowed it down, or they've discovered some candidates,
including small bone eaters and large bone eaters. [Kristin laughs] And Dawn's like,
"I hope it's small bone eaters over large bone eaters." And Anya helpfully points out
actually that Dawn's bones are smaller than everyone else's, so maybe she
shouldn't be so quick—
Kristin:​ Are they? Like, I mean, are they?
Jenny:​ No! She's taller than Buffy. She's way taller than Buffy.
Kristin:​ That's the thing. Like, Dawn is—first of all, Dawn has normal adult-sized
bones.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ And second of all, Dawn is, like, 15. She's gonna drink a fucking coffee. I
was drinking 4,000 coffees at Denny's—
Jenny:​ Oh my god.
Kristin:​ By age 15. So bullshit with your hot chocolate. We'll get there. Meanwhile.
Buffy is like, I miss, fucking, Giles.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ 'Cause you dingdongs are just not what it's about here. She's real
frustrated, she doesn't like it. [Jenny laughs] She doesn't—she's like, who brought
the water buffalos? Give me Giles. And Willow, feeling super self-conscious, again,
is just like, I know I'm a poor substitute, but Giles is gonna come back.
Jenny:​ Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin:​ And Buffy's like, I've gotta get the fuck out of here.


Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ Which is also relatable content. Really, really have had—
Jenny:​ Yes. She—
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ Escape to patrol and Dawn is like, [flatly] "yeah, you should go, I'll be safe
here, don't worry." White eyes! Ahh!
Kristin:​ [laughs] Yo—
Jenny:​ Smiles at the camera with her white demons eyes. [laughs]
Kristin:​ Fucking Dawn, breathing fire like one of Khaleesi's fucking dragons is
literally my favorite fucking thing—
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ In the entire world. It's so great. If I was an actor, that would be my
dream, to breathe fire. Like a dragon.
Jenny:​ Yeah. Anya's like, "you're too young for coffee." And she's like, "what about
breathing fire?!" [Kristin laughs] Whoooooosh! [both laugh] I love that after—after
Dawn spouts this fire from her mouth and passes out [both laughing] Anya
immediately is like, "I hope I didn't look like that. Did I look like that?" [both laugh]
Kristin:​ Yeah! And she's like, "I bet you'll be experiencing some dry mouth." Oh,
it's good. It's—
Jenny:​ Yes, dry mouth imminent from fire, Anya predicts.
Kristin:​ It's great—a great, great Anya episode. In between this moment, sort of
right after Dawn's eyes go white and we go to commercial in 2001. When we come
back, before we get back to the Magic Box to finish the fire breathing, we get this
really stunning shot of Buffy—
Jenny:​ Oh, yeah.
Kristin:​ In the cemetery and she's walking by this beautiful, like, angel statue. And
they frame it so that she has the wings.


Jenny:​ Yeah, and they—and they pivot so that she keeps the wings even though
she's, like, walking forward.
Kristin:​ Yeah. It's really cool.
Jenny:​ It's very nice.
Kristin:​ And some great foreshadowing to what we will shortly learn. "Evil things
have plans!" says Anya, cueing to Spike in his lair. And I think—I think we can—
Jenny:​ Yeah, some of their plans include pacing, punching the wall…
Kristin:​ Buying new red chairs and setting up bars in your basement.
Jenny:​ Mmm! Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin:​ Spike is not kidding. It is quite posh down there.
Jenny:​ It is quite posh.
Kristin:​ Right? He's done a great job. And I, like—I have so much respect for
somebody who works through their trauma and loss by redecorating because—
Jenny:​ Yeah, totally.
Kristin:​ That's what I do. [laughs]
Jenny:​ Mmhmm, mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin:​ So Spike has—yes, in addition to redecorating, has punched the wall. And
Buffy walks in and scares him.
Jenny:​ Clearly, clearly Buffy did not want to patrol. Clearly Buffy wanted to go be
around the only person who has any shred of understanding for her current state.
Kristin:​ Yeah. It's like the only living boy in New York, [Jenny gasps] but the only
unliving boy in Sunnydale.
Jenny:​ Yes. [laughs] Correct.


Kristin:​ Spike points out to Buffy—you know, Willow, again, and her powers. It's
hard to get a good night's death around her, he says.
Jenny:​ Mm. Mmhmm.
Kristin:​ They have a moment where she notices his hands, which is a mirror to
what happened just moments ago when he noticed hers.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ And then they sit down and I would really like to play what Spike says to
Buffy when they sit down.
Jenny:​ Yes.
[Clip from episode plays]
Spike:​ I do remember what I said. The promise. To protect her. If I'd have
done that, even if I didn't make it, you wouldn't have had to jump. But I
want you to know I did save you. Not when it counted, of course, but after
that. Every night after that. I see it all again. I do something different. I'm
faster, more clever, you know? Dozens of times, lots of different ways. Every
night, I save you.
Jenny:​ Can you stand it? I can't fucking stand it.
Kristin:​ I can't. I can't stand it. I can't, I can't. I, like—I—listen. I can't. [laughs]
Jenny:​ How dare.
Kristin:​ He just is so full of… you know, what's interesting though is, like,
he—Spike is full of such grief and guilt over what he couldn't do that resulted in
losing Buffy. And meanwhile, Willow is now riddled with this guilt for bringing Buffy
back.
Jenny:​ Mmm.
Kristin:​ And I will say that Spike, as devastated as he was—like, truly, reliving this
every night to do it the correct way—never even ​considered​ bringing anybody back.
Jenny:​ Yeah, that's interesting, huh?


Kristin:​ You know, Spike really gives his whole heart and then some to the object
of his affection. Once it got, like, deep, you know? I think that he has just made a
lot of choices that have nothing to do with him and that have a lot to do with her
and helping her.
Jenny:​ Yeah. Yeah.
Kristin:​ After her mom died. Like, I think that was probably the turning point. You
know?
Jenny:​ It all goes back to my favorite episode, Season 5, Episode 18, Intervention.
Kristin:​ Yeah. Yeah. It's true.
Jenny:​ I think that's Intervention.
Kristin:​ It is. I mean, I don't know if that—I think that's right, the number.
Jenny:​ [laughing] I think it's the 18th episode of Season 5, okay, bye.
Kristin:​ [laughs] Tara's talking to Xander about seeing the sun rise from the wrong
side. I thought that was a nice turn of phrase, Jane Espenson. Very—very lovely.
Jenny:​ Mmm.
Kristin:​ And we've talked a little bit about this. Xander is questioning if she
knew—if Tara knew. And then when Tara says no, she's—he says, "did anyone? Do
you think anyone knew?" It's very pointed. Tara knows what he's asking.
Jenny:​ Mmhmm.
Kristin:​ And she's like, "Willow couldn't do that." Or could she?!
Jenny:​ That's what you think! What Willow could do—
Kristin:​ [saying it slowly] Thaumogenesis
Jenny:​ Thaumogenesis!
Kristin:​ Thaumogenesis! Jenny, I hope in the near future that we do a special
episode—we've been talking about it a little bit—with the wonderful Helen
Zaltzman, who co-hosts Veronica Mars Investigations with you—


Jenny:​ That's right!
Kristin:​ Because Helen is just a word—she's a linguist. And I think it would be
delightful. Because thaumogenesis is a fake word. It's totally fake, and I was
talking to some of our listeners about it and they were like, yeah, there's like a
whole butt-ton of research on the etymology and like, the creation of words in the
Buffyverse.
Jenny:​ Oh, yeah. Well, all you need is a good prefix, a good suffix, [Kristin laughs]
a basic grasp of Latin and you're just fucking off to the races! Maybe a little Greek.
Kristin:​ Great, can't wait for you to tell that to Helen and—
Jenny:​ Don't wo—I'll explain language to Helen, don't worry. [laughs]
Kristin:​ Anyway, for today, we don't have Helen, but hope to soon. For today, we
know thaumogenesis means that when you want a thing, you have to take this
thing too. Uhh, Anya corrects—[both laugh] this is where I wanna give her—this is
where I wanna give her her jingle.
Jenny:​ Oh, yeah.
Kristin:​ Right? Because… [laughing] she says, "Um, if you have—if you, like, want
this and you have to get that other thing too, that's actually not a price, it's a gift
with purchase."
[ANYA jingle plays]
[cash register rings]
She spent one millennium, demonically vengeancin'
Speaks her mind and then some, you know
She's partial to the finer things
And down with double boyfriends, oh yeah
Exchanging cash for goods and also services
She'd love to hold the money for ya (she'll hold that cash)
Just keep the bunnies far from… Anya!
Kristin:​ Love you. Love you forever, Anya. Forever and ever.
Jenny:​ Okay, so they're brainstorming, oh my god. If the demon is linked to the
spell and if they send the demon away, then it would be like the spell never
happened. And Dawn's like, yo, you can't just…


Kristin:​ Fuck with people's lives like this!
Jenny:​ [simultaneously] Bring Buffy back and then send Buffy away? Yeah.
Kristin:​ Right? Like, that's such a—that's such an integral line from Dawn. "You
can't mess with people's lives this way." That is true, and that is why it is very
questionable, the choices that have been made by the quartet, I will call them. So…
Jenny:​ But you know, these people love to, like, get all expositional when they're
only halfway reading through the fucking entry in the demon-opedia. [both laugh]
After this brief interjection, well, oh wait, keep reading, because the demon is
temporary. It can only live if it kills the object of the spell, right? And then, "thanks
for the tip!" [Kristin laughs] Old—old Demy White-Eyes, popping into the Xander
bod for a quick how do you do.
Kristin:​ That's what, uh—that's what Xander said to Tito last night. You know what
I mean, you know what I mean?
Jenny:​ [laughing] That is what Xander said to Tito. [both laugh]
Kristin:​ Okay. So Ghosty McGhosterson who's not a ghost—Ghosty
McNotGhosterson has arrived—
Jenny:​ Yes?
Kristin:​ To Revello Drive. And—
Jenny:​ And suddenly has, like, a shape and a look and—
Kristin:​ Yeah, it's like a weird—
Jenny:​ A face and a mistiness.
Kristin:​ Skull and a mist. And is like, [spooky voice] "You don't belong here!"
Jenny:​ How did it get out of the floors and walls?
Kristin:​ [spooky voice] "Were you offered pretty little lies, girl?"
Jenny:​ Oh my god! [Kristin laughs] This is like—this is like a fucking—it's just like a
stew. It's like a horror movie stew. They're like, what—where—what is it like when


you're getting haunted or whatever again? I can't remember. There's like, this and
this and this and this and this and let's not worry about it too much. [both laugh]
Kristin:​ Yeah, like, that's not the point. We just—we need to learn that Buffy was
in heaven, okay? That—
Jenny:​ Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin:​ Just like, get us there, get us there.
Jenny:​ Just—yeah, get us there.
Kristin:​ So Anya is like, you are driving this car slower than Riley drives a car.
Jenny:​ What the hell?! [Kristin laughs] What—how did—what… alright.
Kristin:​ Riley drove so slow! He drove ​so​ slow.
Jenny:​ He is a safe driver and I respect a safe driver.
Kristin:​ Just in case you were wondering, Jenny also drives—
Jenny:​ [simultaneously] He has precious cargo whenever he's driving.
Kristin:​ [simultaneously] Very slow, because she's a law-abiding—
Jenny:​ [simultaneously] He. Has. Precious. Cargo. Whenever. He's. Driving!
[laughs]
Kristin:​ [simultaneously] Citizen. Anya actually says that Xander's driving the car
like a snail, and then she realizes, hmm, that doesn't quite make sense. You're
driving the car like a snail who's driving the car slowly. [both laugh] Willow and
Tara are like, Spelly McSpells. Trying to make the mist solid.
Jenny:​ These girl memorize a lot of magical poems, am I right?
Kristin:​ Yeah. They do and so much—
Jenny:​ Don't you feel like—why do they always have to memorize them? Can't they
just get a little… cheat sheet?
Kristin:​ Like a teleprompter? [laughs]


Jenny:​ Yes!
Kristin:​ A witch teleprompter?
Jenny:​ Uh-huh.
Kristin:​ I mean… I feel like it's hard—you know, as somebody who references
notes, even during the taping of a podcast, it is nice to not have to reference—you
know, not look at the paper—
Jenny:​ Sure, but like, every time you bring your friend back from the dead [Kristin
laughs] and then there's a demon created by the spell. Every single time you do
that, you have to learn a whole fucking 'nother 16 bars?
Kristin:​ It's true. It's true. And also, don't you think that Tara is also frustrated
that she memorized this whole fucking spell, but really, all that needed to happen
was Willow needed to be like, "solid!" [laughs]
Jenny:​ Right?! Yeah. That feels like another moment in this ep, too, of like, oh,
Will-Willow. I guess Willow's got it, I guess Willow has some stuff going on with
this?
Kristin:​ Yeah, yeah. She didn't need Tara's assistance in the least, it does not
seem. [laughing] Also, I love the, like—moments later, then, Buffy—you know, the
demon—the whatever-the-fuck it is, demon ghost—Demon NotGhosterson—is
beheaded. And—
Jenny:​ Mm. A tidy little decapitation!
Kristin:​ And it—but it ​is​ so tidy. It's like, literally solid. Like, they—like, Willow—
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ Was like, "solid," and it was like, okay, I will make you a demon out of
styrofoam.
Jenny:​ Thunk!
Kristin:​ [laughs] Yeah, out of solid foam.
Jenny:​ Yeah.


Kristin:​ So yeah, she beheads the demon. And Dawn is like, "That's probably
something I'm not supposed to see." And the only reason I bring it up is because
Anya [laughing] just pats her on the shoulder, very like, Spike. Like,
pat-pat-pat-pat-pat, you're fine.
Jenny:​ Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin:​ You're fine, tiny child. It's the first of many beheadings that you will
witness.
Jenny:​ It's the next day, it's the next beautiful, sunny day. Dawn's on her way to
school.
Kristin:​ Very—
Jenny:​ But wait!
Kristin:​ Very horror movie-esque, by the way.
Jenny:​ Buffy… 'cause it's like, a little too sunny?
Kristin:​ A little too sunny, yeah, yeah.
Jenny:​ And 'cause Buffy got…
Kristin:​ Oh, god.
Jenny:​ She put on—
Kristin:​ It's upsetting.
Jenny:​ What is—[laughs]
Kristin:​ I would like to really—we'll do a separate poll for this week, where we talk
about what upsets us the most. Is it: Willow's Elmo—you know, they killed an Elmo
to make that sweater she wears later.
Jenny:​ Uh-huh.
Kristin:​ Is it that sweater—with, by the way, like, a patchwork Christmas quilt
skirt.


Jenny:​ Eek!
Kristin:​ Is it Buffy's fucking Ann Taylor loft fucking shit?
Jenny:​ Yeah, like, um. Real estate agent?
Kristin:​ Yeah—what? Yeah, what is happening?
Jenny:​ Kind of vibe.
Kristin:​ Or is it—it's not, 'cause this is the least offensive, but we didn't talk about
it. Anya's fucking fashion clash, up—outside? Anya's wearing, like, striped pants
with like a leopard shirt that has fur around it. It's very clashy.
Jenny:​ Anyas can do what they want.
Kristin:​ Anyas can, but yes, to your point, this is a rough look for Buffy. It's like,
worse than the funeral dress, somehow. [laughs]
Jenny:​ Yeah, it's a lot. But she—hey. That's the kinda clothes you gotta wear if you
wanna make your kid sister lunch while she's on her way to school.
Kristin:​ And Dawn has a very important line. So this is pretty massive, like, kinda
from here till the end. Because Dawn says to Buffy, you know, it was bad when you
were gone and basically, you know—
Jenny:​ Mmhmm.
Kristin:​ All they want is to see you happy. They just want to see you happy.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ Reminds me of, like, how parents fuck their kids up a lot. You know? Like,
this idea that like, you have to be—you have to be happy to be whole. And—
Jenny:​ Mmm.
Kristin:​ And Buffy—right? I mean, I don't know that, like, I'm drawing the parallel
to this particular moment for Buffy. But it just reminded me of these larger pieces
of our society. Of like… as an adult person now, I'm realizing that it would have
been a lot healthier if I had been brought up in a way that was like, it's okay to be


sad. It's okay to be angry. It's okay to be happy. It's okay to be all of these things
and all of these things are what make you, like, a full person.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ You know. And in this moment, it clicks something for Buffy. And it's
really… I don't know what we've seen—I mean, obviously Buffy jumping off of the
tower and sacrificing her entire self for Dawn and the world was very big. But in a
lesser—like, in a less dramatic form, I don't know that we've seen Buffy do anything
like she does right after she gets this information, when she walks into the Magic
Box.
Jenny:​ Yeah, this is not, like, characteristic Buffy behavior, right? She is like, cut
and dry—
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ Cold, hard truth, kind of vibe.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny:​ But she goes into that Magic Box and looks into all her friends' eyes. Or
maybe she stares at the floor. And says, you know, whew, I was in hell. Whew, that
was bad. Thanks so much for getting me out. Knowing that that's what they need
to hear.
Kristin:​ Yeah. She—it's interesting too, the way she says it. 'Cause there is the lie
of, "I was in hell." That is an untrue statement. But the way that she phrases the
rest of what she says. She says, "it felt like the world abandoned me there." And
when we connect it with what she says to Spike, that's not necessarily untrue. It's
just that the assumption is that that would be bad. But it wasn't.
Jenny:​ Right.
Kristin:​ She says, "You guys gave me the world." Which is true. She is in the world
again. And she says—
Jenny:​ [laughs] Unfortunately.
Kristin:​ "I can't tell you what it means to me." Also, very true.
Jenny:​ Wow!


Kristin:​ I know.
Jenny:​ [chanting] Buffy! Buffy!
Kristin:​ And then they hug her, and I just wanna say that, like, I didn't really
realize that every time somebody sends me that hug GIF, this was the context. And
I feel a bit upset about it, because… [both laugh] it's not as—
Jenny:​ Boo!
Kristin:​ It's not as sweet as I thought it was. [laughs]
Jenny:​ Yeah. Then she goes out the side door, the alley door, the back door, the
door, the door, the door.
Kristin:​ Yeah, sure, mmhmm.
Jenny:​ Spike is there.
Kristin:​ Sun's low.
Jenny:​ Spike is there, chilling in the shade. [both laughing] As he does.
Kristin:​ Sun's low and it's shady. I'm like, [doubtfully] mm… [laughs]
Jenny:​ Mm, or…
Kristin:​ Or you needed to start shooting scenes in daylight and couldn't do them all
in the dark.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ There had to be a workaround for Spike, because—yeah. He—she says she
wants to be alone and he gets up to go. But like, the shade is not quite shady
enough, across the line. So she says, "I can be alone with you here." He takes it as
an insult—
Jenny:​ [laughs] And he's like, "thanks."
Kristin:​ But it actually is, I think, quite nice. I mean, I—to me, that just like, reads
very nice. Like, if you can feel—


Jenny:​ Like, comfortable.
Kristin:​ Yes, exactly.
Jenny:​ Weirdly, yeah.
Kristin:​ He says, "Buff. Slayer. Are you okay?" She says, "I'm here. I'm good." And
he says, "If you're in pain, let me know if there's anything that I can do, anything
at all." And they have this, like, kind of quick exchange about—like, he's sort of
saying, like, you know, it's been a minute since I've been in a hell dimension. But
like, I know a thing or two. And then, we're gonna play what she says back to Spike
when he says, like, you know, I know about hell dimensions.
[Clip from episode plays]
Buffy:​ I was happy. Wherever I was… I was happy. At peace. I knew that
everyone I cared about was alright. I knew it. Time didn't mean anything.
Nothing had form, but I was still me, you know? And I was warm. And I was
loved. And I was finished. Complete. I don't understand theology or
dimensions, any of it, really. But I think I was in heaven. And now I'm not. I
was torn out of there, pulled out by my friends. Everything here is hard, and
bright, and violent. Everything I feel, everything I touch. This is hell.
Kristin:​ Whew!
Jenny:​ Oh my god!
Kristin:​ Put it back in the DVD case and put it under the bed! We don't want it!
Keep it! [laughs]
Jenny:​ No. I still have the pajama bonfire going, actually, if you just wanna toss it
on. [both laugh] Good lord!
Kristin:​ Oh my god! Oh my ​god!​ [both sigh] Well.
Jenny:​ Well. Yep. [Kristin laughs] Yep.
Kristin:​ I mean, I don't even know—
Jenny:​ Well.


Kristin:​ Like, I don't even know what to tell you. I don't know what to do for you.
Any of you. I can't help you. I can't help myself.
Jenny:​ What the fuck. For those of you watching for the first time, good god!
Kristin:​ Oh, god. So sorry. We're so sorry. We didn't mean for this to happen the
way that it has happened. But we are here! [singing] "We are here in hell
together!"
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ [singing] "Pulled out of heaven by our friends!" Is that this week's song?
"Here in hell together!"
Jenny:​ Yeah, you know, it's weird how you cut out the part of her speech where
she was like, um, I was, uh, complete. I was loved. I was held in the rippling arms
of a certain butterscotch deity, [Kristin laughs] cradling me through eternal rest
and—
Kristin:​ What the actual fuck? [both laugh]
Jenny:​ [laughing] I don't know!
Kristin:​ Could you imagine—could you imagine if she fucking died and she was like,
oh, I'm feeling so good. And then she found out that heaven was just being held in
Riley's arms. I feel like she'd be pretty bummed out. [laughs]
Jenny:​ No, that sounds tight! Literally.
Kristin:​ It would probably be, like, Riley and Angel, like, carrying her around on
their shoulders alternately. You know? Like, all of—all of the kissing from Angel and
all of the boot-removal from Riley.
Jenny:​ Oh, yeah!
Kristin:​ Yeah!
Jenny:​ Nice and slow.
Kristin:​ [laughs] I knew we would figure out how to do Sexual Tension in this
episode. See? We just needed to talk about it first.


[SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays]
Sexual tension award!
Jenny:​ Kristin.
Kristin:​ Jenny?
Jenny:​ Who are today's Sexual Tension Award nominees? Tell me all about it. And
I'll chime in.
Kristin:​ Why are you talking to ​me?
​ Okay, um…
Jenny:​ Because I didn't write them down when we just paused to discuss them.
[both laugh]
Kristin:​ We had none—no, we had one. Jenny brought one to the table. Usually,
we have like, four out of the gates. And I was like, okay, if we only have one when
we get to them, then like, maybe we'll just ask our listeners to help us. But we
figured it out. So, first is the one that you brought to the table, Jenny. What did you
walk in with?
Jenny:​ I walked in with… Anya's foot. [Kristin laughs] And Anya's mouth.
Kristin:​ Yeah! They have a lot of tension in this episode. I think.
Jenny:​ They're just constantly circling one another, thinking about it, thinking
about it, thinking about it. [Kristin laughs] A light touch? Backing off, thinking about
it, thinking about it.
Kristin:​ We've got, um, Buffy and Spike, which off-mic, Jenny and I were
discussing that this might not be—this isn't a 1080 PHD? What do you call it?
Jenny:​ [laughing] Oh my fucking god! Yeah. It's not a porn doctor, as Kristin would
have you believe. [Kristin laughs] But rather, an emotional connection so deep that
it defies—
Kristin:​ Mmhmm!
Jenny:​ Even the high-definition of 1080P.
Kristin:​ Wooowww…


Jenny:​ So. Yeah.
Kristin:​ Get your plasma TVs out, kids. In the third… position. Wow, I just realized
you put me in charge, which gives me safety.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ In the third position, we have Angel and Riley and Buffy, in heaven.
Jenny:​ Hell yeah, heavenly fucking!
Kristin:​ [laughs] Heavenly creatures, part 2.
Jenny:​ Uh-huh. And how.
Kristin:​ And how. And in the fourth slot, we have all—
Jenny:​ Oh, the fourth slot, you say?
Kristin:​ I know, I fucked up—
Jenny:​ One more nom for the fourth slot?
Kristin:​ Shut up, shut up, shut up! [Jenny laughs] All of you… all of you, with
whoever, wearing Puritan pajamas.
Jenny:​ Nice. You kids have a great, safe time out there.
Kristin:​ Yeah. I'm gonna call it—on Twitter, I'm gonna call it the Puritan pajama
party. So…
Jenny:​ Hell yeah.
Kristin:​ We did it. I think we deserve some kind of award for figuring out four
different fucking things to put in this poll. But you can follow us @BufferingCast on
Twitter. The poll goes up the day that the episode airs. It lasts for seven days, and
we count the votes right away. We know immediately who has won.
Jenny:​ Uh… yes. [Kristin laughs] Yeah, we are fast counters. Immediate return on
your deposit, as it were.


Kristin:​ We're taping this episode on November 5th, so that joke that we just made
may not age like fine wine or a cheese. But you know what—
Jenny:​ Mm. Mmm.
Kristin:​ Who cares?
Jenny:​ You miss 100% of the shots you don't take, Kristin. So…
Kristin:​ That's what I've heard. That's what I've heard.
[SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays]
Sexual tension award!
Jenny:​ Wow! Good to know that if something unforeseen were to happen to
me—not like, death or anything. [Kristin laughs] But if I were rendered temporarily
orally unavailable, that Kristin would be able to [laughs]—Kristin would be able to—
Kristin:​ Orally. Unavailable. Jenny Owen Youngs!
Jenny:​ [laughing] Kristin would be able to… fucking record this fucking segment.
You know what I mean?
Kristin:​ Yes. Jenny—happy—
Jenny:​ If, for example—
Kristin:​ Happy—[both laugh] happy to take over for you orally, any time.
Jenny:​ Yikes. [both laugh] Okay, moving right along.
Kristin:​ Somebody tweeted at us the other day and was like, "I don't know when
this became a thirst podcast." And I was like, I don't even know exactly what that
means, but now I feel like I do.
Jenny:​ [snorts and laughs] Kristin.
Kristin:​ Like, in this moment, it has come to clear to me that perhaps that person
was right. And you're all welcome. So Jenny, who are you?
Jenny:​ Well! I'm ​so​ glad you asked. Oh my good gravy, my name is Jenny Owen
Youngs. And when I'm not making this podcast with Kristin, I am usually writing


and recording songs. I've put out a lot of stuff since the last time we taped an
outro, and I'm just gonna run it down really quick. I hope that's not offensive.
[Kristin laughs] A few things. A few things, a few things have come to light. I just
released a really—what I think is a very beautiful video for my song, Vampire
Weeknight. I collaborated with this incredible—this incredible digital painter and
artist, Mariela Sandia, who is from Costa Rica. She is so sick and it was such an
honor and privilege to work with her and her team. You can find that video on
Youtube and where videos live.
Kristin:​ How about in the show notes?
Jenny:​ Oh. Yeah, and I'll link it in the show notes, why not? And then also, last
Friday, November 6th—[laughs] which is actually tomorrow, from where I'm
currently taping.
Kristin:​ [laughs, makes siren noise]
Jenny:​ I, oops, accidentally released four songs, and here's what they are.
[laughing] On Bandcamp. On my Bandcamp, you can find an acoustic version of my
song, Wake Up, which I decided to release on Bandcamp because—
Kristin:​ Mmhmm.
Jenny:​ A. It's Bandcamp Friday, and B. the original album version of Wake Up just
passed a million streams on Spotify—
Kristin:​ Aww!
Jenny:​ Because of Bojack Horseman. Thanks so much, Bojack Horseman—
Kristin:​ Aww!
Jenny:​ For featuring the song. I also put out two songs, Sunfish and Follow You,
which were just on Bandcamp previously, now they're on Spotify and all the DSPs.
And Charlie Harding of Switched On Pop and I collaborated on a very emotional
Blink 182 cover that just came out?
Kristin:​ Wow.
Jenny:​ We covered Dammit in a slow sort of atmospheric piano ballad form. So you
can find that on Bandcamp as well. And hey, I also make a podcast with Helen
Zaltzman, who rocks, called Veronica Mars Investigations. You can listen to that.


You can learn about me on jennyowenyoungs.com. Give me a shout on Twitter,
@JennyOwenYoungs! Thanks for letting me talk this long, Kristin! [takes deep
breath]
Kristin:​ This one time, on Bandcamp…
Jenny:​ [laughing] Wow.
Kristin:​ I'm… Kristin Russo. And mostly, I just read emails from everybody about
Buffy and science, math, porn, all sorts of things, you know. It's just, whatever
wing—whatever you wing my way. But I also—hey, I do a really fun—
Jenny:​ [laughing] Whatever you wing my way, the Kristin Russo story.
Kristin:​ [laughs] I also make a very fun Patreon-only podcast with Joanna
Robinson called Feels Like the First Time. We just finished a really fun jaunt through
October, which had us watching all manner of spooky films. One of them being the
Babadook, which I had never seen. Pretty freaky.
Jenny:​ [creepy voice] Babadook! Dook! Dook!
Kristin:​ [laughs] Oh wow, that was a treat I didn't expect. Thank you, Jenny. And I
work with the LGBTQ community. I do talks, I do workplace talks. It's—you know, I
used to do them digitally before there was a pandemic. And now that there is, it's
even more convenient that I can do that. So I talk to workplaces, I talk to schools, I
do GSA talks. And you can find out all of that good stuff at kristinnoeline.com. Did
you know that once upon a time I wrote a book? 'Cause I never talk about it.
Jenny:​ Oh my god! Yeah, you wrote a book, huh?
Kristin:​ I wrote a book. Yeah, I wrote a book. It's called This Is A Book For Parents
of Gay Kids, and it—if I do say so myself, it fucking rules. I think every parent
should read it. And I never talk about it. I, like, forget that it exists, but it's a very
useful tool. And now you know, if you didn't before. And hey, you can follow me on
Twitter and on Instagram, @KristinNoeline. That's K-R-I-S-T-I-N N-O-E-L-I-N-E.
Jenny:​ Well! Buffering the Vampire Slayer's on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram
[sinister voice] @BufferingCast. [normal voice] Or! Drop us an email at
bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com. In fact, you can even go one step further
and leave us a voicemail at 216-30-BUFFY.


Kristin:​ Hell yeah. You can support us on Patreon. Patreon is a very, very amazing
community. You get really cool shit, like access to the secret Facebook group. You
get music in advance before it releases. You get to do Buffy Watches with us. You
get to do live stream hangs with us. You can even get exclusive merch, if you're up
there in one of the top tiers. And I will say, it is the reason—the support that we
see on Patreon is the reason that we've been able to grow our team over the last
several months.
Jenny:​ Oh, yeah.
Kristin:​ And I, like, you know—I'm sure some of you understand that. But just in
case you don't understand that, that—it is literally because of that support that
we've been able to do some really, really, really important work here in the space
and with the podcast. So if you don't support us over there and you'd like to, we
would really love that. Because we are continuing to grow and continuing to do new
stuff here in the space. You can find out all about our Patreon at
bufferingthevampireslayer.com, just click on Patreon.
And hey, you can also find the new fucking t-shirt by Isabella Rotman! It rules! It's
a fucking witch—[Jenny sings a tune] with Buffy tattoos upon their body,
surrounded by—this is a little trivia—the three flowers that Willow needed to create
the lightning ball, to—you know. She was trying to—with Tara, for the light ball?
The vampires? Yeah. [Jenny laughs] And it says… [laughs] and it says… you messed
with the wrong witch. So it's fucking great. And we released it on Halloween, it's up
in the store. It's up in both stores, US and UK and you can go find that also on the
website, bufferingthevampireslayer.com.
Jenny:​ And now… it is my pleasure, honor and privilege to say… till next time…
Both:​ Awwwooooooooooo!
[​“After Life” plays off the album Songs from Season 6 by Buffering the
Vampire Slayer]

