Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 2.19: I Only Have Eyes For You
Jenny​: Hey everybody, just a couple of announcements before we get
started. I, Jenny Owen Youngs, will be on tour opening for my friends
Streetlight Manifesto from June 23rd to July 1st. If you’re in Denver, Las
Vegas, Tempe, San Diego, Anaheim, San Francisco, Portland, or Seattle- I
will be coming to a venue near you. You can get all the details at
jennyowenyoungs.com/tour
Kristin​: Yes, and hopefully I’ll be at the Anaheim through Seattle shows
with any luck–
Jenny​: Woo!
Kristin​: With any luck I’ll be there too, but if you live on the east coast near
to New York, you should come out and celebrate pride with me at my 5th
annual all ages pride celebration. It’s being held at Housing Works Bookstore
Cafe down on Crosby Street in Manhattan. It is my favorite event that
Everyone is Gay puts on.
Hundreds of young people and their families come out, we are having music
from B Studwell, Julia Weldon and we are this year having the slam team
from Urban Word New York City perform. Gabby Rivera and myself will be
hosting, it is a blast and there will be free snacks! So come out it’s June
24th, that is a Saturday, from 2 to 4pm. You can find out more about
Jenny’s tour or my pride event by going to bufferingthevampireslayer.com
and clicking on our events page.
[theme song]
Jenny​: Hello! And welcome to yet another episode of Buffering the Vampire
Slayer, a podcast where we are watching and discussing every episode of
Buffy the Vampire Slayer one at a time. My name is Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin​: My name is Kristin Russo, and this week we are talking about
season 2 episode 19, “I Only Have Eyes For You.” Stay tuned at the end of
this podcast every week for an original song written by us recapping the
Buffy episode we are discussing.


Jenny​: “I Only Have Eyes For You” was written by Marti Noxon and directed
by James Whitmore Jr. and originally aired on April 28th, 1998.
Kristin​: This is the one where Sunnydale High School is haunted by the
ghost of a former student and teacher who reenact their tragic romance
through the bodies of the school’s current inhabitants.
Jenny​: [soft laughter]
Kristin​: I don't know, I didn't write it. The school’s current inhabitants.
Jenny​: Inhabitants.
Kristin​: Inhabitants. Well, I mean, it’s one way to put it.
Jenny:​ It is.
Kristin:​ Jenny?
Jenny:​ Yes?
Kristin:​ Do you wanna tell them? Or should I tell them?
Jenny​: I’ll tell them right now.
Kristin​: That you tricked me.
Jenny​: You… can’t…
Kristin​: Into having a Buffy the Vampire Slayer themed wedding.
Jenny​: Well…
Kristin​: Is what I learned this episode.
Jenny​: Umm, Buffy the Vampire Slayer themed first dance.
Kristin​: First dance, okay, fine.


Jenny​: Our first dance was to The Flamingos recording of “I Only Have Eyes
For You” which you hear twice in this episode.
Kristin​: Twice but, we found a piece of information about the song.
Jenny​: It’s mysterious and this might be a poltergeist intervention or
something [Kristin laughs] because these flashbacks happen in 1955 but The
Flamingos didn't release their version of “I Only Have Eyes For You” until
1959.
Kristin​: Maybe… maybe the initial memory was the original recording.
Jenny​: [mmm in agreement]
Kristin​: And then the ghost, the poltergeist, you know...
Jenny​: The ghost was really into records… sure, sure.
Kristin​: Heard the new version and just really needed a pick me up.
Jenny​: Yeah, well, it is definitely the best version.
Kristin​: You know what I would have picked? For my song?
Jenny​: What’s that?
Kristin​: Any song by Frente, remember how Frente is sort of in this
episode?
Jenny​: Frente is kind of in this episode, in that Angie Harts’ post-Frente
band Splendid is performing on stage at The Bronze at the top of the
episode.
Kristin​: Which, like, blah-blah-blah... Frente!
Jenny​: Ok! Yes.


Kristin​: I’m sorry its just I only have an association with Frente, I love
Frente, you love Frente.
Jenny​: ​Love​ Frente.
Kristin​: Most people who grew up in the 90s and who were alternative
music fans. Remember alternative music? That was like a whole genre.
Jenny​: Vaguely. It was… a thing.
Kristin​: Is that even a genre anymore? Is that a real thing?
Jenny​: It's unclear.
Kristin​: Anyway… we loved Frente! If you don't know Frente, you know
what, if you do know Frente, congratulations, I'm gonna play just two tiny
clips. If you ​don't​ know Frente you should immediately go out… what was
the name of the album with the fish on it?
Jenny​: Uh that was Marvin the Album, but I personally really love Shape.
Shape, her follow up.
Kristin​: I don’t know, I think I just had, I think I just had that one album, I
don’t know. I don't know anymore, but anyway, on that album there is a
cover of “Bizarre Love Triangle” you might remember this.
[Frente performing “Bizarre Love Triangle” off the album “Marvin the
Album”]
Every time I think of you I get a shot right through into a bolt of
blue...
Kristin​: Listen to her, you know, it’s real [singing] “it’s no problem of mine,
but it’s a problem I find”.
Jenny​: Oh boy.
Kristin​: [singing] “Living the life that we have left behind” is that the lyrics?
Jenny​: Yeah. You’re very...you're dangerously close to it.


Kristin​: [chuckling] Dangerously close is good for me.
Jenny​: Well above your average.
Kristin​: Anyway. We pan from Frente, or whatever, to Willow wearing an
incredible rainbow sweater, and then pan up… really nice shot where Willow
looks up and the camera follows Willow’s gaze up to the rafters where Buffy
is standing in her gold lamé pants.
Jenny​: [mmmm]
Kristin​: We do not have Kate Leth here with us this week but, oh boy!
Jenny​: It’s a crying shame!
Kristin​: It is a crying shame, I’m sure that Kate will have many thoughts on
these gold pants.
The theme of this entire episode is the Sadie Hawkins dance. Usually we
make it more than like 2 seconds into the episode without talking about the
fucking patriarchy.
Jenny​: uh-huh
Kristin​: We don't make it here, do we Jenny?
Jenny​: We sure don’t!
Kristin​: Because this ​guy…
Jenny​: [disapproving noise] ugggh
Kristin​: Walks up to Buffy
Jenny​: [said with disgust] ​Ben
Kristin​: Is that his name? Ben?


Jenny​: His name is Ben, he’s wearing a paisley shirt and dress pants…
Kristin​: [disapproving noise] ugggh
Jenny​: For some reason.
Kristin​: Despicable! [laughter]
Jenny​: I mean…
Kristin​: And he’s like, [sarcastically] “mm don’t you remember me from
Algebra 2, you sat in the row next to me three chairs back.” Creepo.
Jenny​: Yeah yeah yeah.
Kristin​: But fine, whatever, he’s not an immediate creepo, I didn’t think he
was an immediate creepo but he like…
Jenny​: It’s not like he’s been sketching her while she sleeps or anything.
Kristin​: ​True!​ Solid point. But he walks up to her and he’s like, “Hey I heard
about this Sadie Hawkins dance and wondered if you wanted to ask me.”
Jenny​: ​uuuuggggghhhhhh
Kristin​: I have a lot to unpack here.
Jenny​: Okay…
Kristin​: I wanna start there, ‘cause the fuck man, ​the fuck are you doing?!
You’re supposed to… it's the one, the one time, we’re gonna get there don’t
worry i’m not just gonna say blanketly this is the one time where girls get to
ask boys to the dance and leave it there, I’m coming back.
But it’s the one time where the girls are supposed to ask the boys to the
dance. And this ​ding dong
[Jenny laughs]


Comes up to her, at the thing, and basically asks her to the frickking dance
like a ding dong… I’m so…
Jenny​: Yeah, he’s a real ding dong.
Kristin​: He’s a ​real​ ding dong. Ben. Ding dong. You know what else is a ding
dong? The fucking Sadie Hawkins dance.
I looked it up, right, because I was like who is this Sadie Hawkins? Like is
Sadie Hawkins a feminist from yesteryear and that’s like what’s happening in
this situation?
Sadie Hawkins is not a real person, um sorry Sadie. The Sadie Hawkins dance
is named after the Li’l Abner comic strip character Sadie Hawkins. In the strip
Sadie Hawkins day fell on a given day in November, the unmarried women of
Dogpatch got to chase the bachelors and quote “marry up” with the ones
they caught.
Jenny​: [exasperated] Lord…
Kristin​: The event was introduced in a daily strip which ran on November
15th 1937, this is unlike traditional dances where the men chase the women,
this ​empowers…
​ I’m reading an article, I’m not, opining in case it wasn't
clear.
This empowers women to chase after what they want and not just wait for it
to walk their way.
Jenny​: Oh… dear.
Kristin​: So this is complicated, ‘cause I’ll give it… I’ll give it a kernel, a tiny
kernel that’s wrapped up inside of a mound of bullshit.
Jenny​: [in agreement] mhmm.
Kristin​: There’s a little kernel of like, hey, women don't get to have
autonomy over shit, like they’ve been positioned historically to just say yes
or no or oftentimes not even given the option to say yes or no. So, let’s give
them this great opportunity and there is a kernel…


Jenny​: A once in a lifetime chance…
Kristin​: Right, there's a kernel of like, sure I’m all for women having more
autonomy and the structure not just being that you know, men ask women
things and women then say yes or no- like fine. But it’s wrapped up in this
total, heteronormative bullshit way where it’s like, ooh we’re empowering
women and what is the power they get? To ask a man to take them to the
dance.
I immediately, after looking up where Sadie Hawkins came from and getting
angry, thought I wonder if Autostraddle has ever written anything about
Sadie Hawkins? I wanna hear what they have to say, and low and behold,
none other than Riese Bernard, the CEO and Editor-in-Chief of Autostraddle,
had written 4 years ago an article on an episode of “Glee” where they had a
Sadie Hawkins dance, and I just wanna read just, first of all, if you’ve never
read any of Riese Bernards recaps of episodes of ​anything…
​
Jenny​: Yeah, they’re pretty priceless.
Kristin​: You will, you could spend the next couple of months of your life
delighted to no end at the way that this girl recaps an episode. I’m just
gonna pull out this, so apparently in this episode of “Glee” the Sadie Hawkins
dance, the girls are going to sing to the boys to ask them to the dance.
So, Riese says, “This is so empowering, I feel like the Statue of Liberty,
maybe next week the girls can pick out their own wedding dresses and the
week after that they can pick out new drapes. The possibilities are endless.”
Jenny​: Yeah and I mean, really sort of the structure… well it’s just I’m
wondering how we would go to the Sadie Hawkins dance?
Kristin​: I don’t… I don’t know Jenny.
Jenny​: We would be caught in an infinite feedback loop.
[Kristin laughs]
Jenny​: Of not being able to ask each other…


Kristin​: No, of being able to ask someone but not each other because we
would have to ask a boy.
Jenny​: Yeah [gasp of realisation]
Kristin​: So what if we asked a boy, what if I was like, “hey Steve, do you
wanna ask Jenny if she will go with me to the Sadie Hawkins dance?”
Jenny​: I don’t think that…
Kristin​: It doesn't work! Because you would have to ask…
Jenny​: You’re right.
Kristin​: It doesn’t work, we’d have to go as a thruple. We’d have to both ask
the same boy and then ditch him. That’d be the only way.
Jenny​: Alright.
Kristin​: And you know what?
[both laugh]
Jenny​: ​What?!
Kristin​: Just that, because Cordelia has a moment with the Sadie Hawkins
dance and I just found it fucking fascinating and amazing and troubling all of
the things, I mean it’s Cordelia so of course.
Cordelia’s like, “I’m boycotting the dance because this is all wrong, it’s out of
order.” And I find it, it’s a troubling comment because in her opinion, in
Cordelia’s opinion the men should only ask the women, right, so it’s like
backwards.
Jenny​: And the men should pay.
Kristin​: And the men should pay. But also we know Cordelia’s character and
Cordelia’s character is somebody who always takes what she wants, exactly


the way she wants it and no other way, so there’s just something very
interesting because I feel, I feel troubled about the Sadie Hawkins dynamic.
I don’t think it’s good, I think it’s bad. I don’t think it’s the way to give
women their autonomy. I think there are better ways and I feel…
Jenny​: One day in the whole year!
Kristin​: Right and I feel like Cordelia’s like, “Yo the fucking system is like
this and I’m doing fine.” [laughter] Which is complicated because Cordelia
has a lot of power in different ways: she’s a white woman; she’s a wealthy
white woman, fine.
But I just, I guess what i’m trying to get at is I feel that we could do an
entire episode on the Sadie Hawkins dance, the character of Cordelia, Kristin
Russo’s feelings, I could go on forever.
Jenny​: Is it this episode?
Kristin​: Yeah it’s happening right now [laughs] there’s a lot to talk about so
I’m not gonna, I’m not gonna keep spielling but I… I have a lot of feelings
about it and some of them were summed up by this fucking ding dong. So…
Jenny​: This… ding dong.
Kristin​: Ding dong asking Buffy to the dance when he’s not even- of course.
Jenny​: Ugh.
Kristin​: The patriarchy.
Jenny​: Uh huh.
Kristin​: You have to say it.
Jenny​: [shouting] ​The Patriarchy!
Kristin​: [giggle] There it is!
Jenny​: Bleurgh


[laughter]
Kristin​: So soon… so soon in an episode.
Jenny​: ​Too​ soon.
Kristin​: Anyhow. Probably more patriarchy right around the bend in this
hallway scene.
Jenny​: We see two teens fighting… aaahhhh we don’t know yet what they’re
fighting about.
Kristin​: Luckily Buffy has chosen to patrol in the high school tonight.
Jenny​: Yeah, she left The Bronze to patrol and went right to the high school.
Kristin​: Yeah did she forget a book or something? I dunno, anyway, good
thing, good thing because here are these two teens and one of my favourite
kinds of Sunnydale High School scenes, which is the hallway scene.
Jenny​: So the camera can go…
Kristin​: I love it.
Jenny​: 360 degrees around the people.
Kristin​: Yeah it’s great it reminded me of the opening scene of “Welcome to
the Hellmouth” with good old Darla.
Jenny​: Darla!
Kristin​: Same hallway, or at least the same general vibe. And then we get a
gun. We get a gun, I don’t like a gun in a Buffy episode but I do feel that this
particular gun has a purpose, Jenny gave it a name.
Jenny​: It’s a polter-gun.


Kristin​: A polter-gun because it just disappears, ‘cause I was like where
the… how does… why does the gun just disappear? And if the gun disappears
why doesn’t the bullet disappear?
Jenny​: Hmm maybe the bullet…
Kristin​: You know what the answer is.
Jenny​: Maybe the bullet does disappear after it has penetrated.
Kristin​: Ooh so its likeJenny​: Like that old riddle.
Kristin​: What?
Jenny​: That the answer, the answer is icicles.
Kristin​: What? Oh [haha]. The way that Jenny loves to tell her riddles. She
gives you the answer, you have to…
Jenny​: Name that riddle!
Kristin​: [laughter] “What is icicles?” Wow. Anyway the answer I think to why
does the gun disappear and the bullet, it’s just metaphydics, right.
Jenny​: Metaphydics, ghost gun, polter-gun.
Kristin​: Metaphydics. Also I have a bone to pick with Buffy here, she’s in the
school, she sees the teens, she probably doesn’t think “hey there are some
teens” because she too, herself, is a teen. She sees these peers and she sees
one pull out a gun and her instinct, now she’s great with vampires, she’s
great with even werewolves. She’s great with all manner of demon but I just
don’t think that if a person is pointing a gun at somebody your first response
should be to go [shouts] “Hey!”. Like it just…
Jenny​: Yeah, you say that but you find yourself in that position you might be
surprised at how you react.


Kristin​: Well no, I’m not saying that it’s not a believable response I’m just
saying I don’t know that it is an effective response. [Jenny makes a noise to
express understanding]
Luckily these two characters are caught in a loop so it doesn't matter what
Buffy does unless she physically interrupts them, but I think that if it were an
actual thing happening right then, probably you don't want to startle the
person with the gun.
Jenny​: Bad idea.
Kristin​: I just, right, but it works out, we get one of our first 90’s references
in this episode with theJenny​: Oh yeah.
Kristin​: “You just went O.J. on your girlfriend” bit.
Jenny​: [drawn out] Yes.
Kristin​: Which OJ was acquitted? Is that what actually happened, is that
what you say when somebody's found not guilty?
Jenny​: [in agreement] mhmm
Kristin​: Ok, yeah ‘95, so this is enough years laterJenny​: FreshKristin​: Right but enough years for it to be like, in the canon of referencing
it. So we get that and she also, Buffy, later in the episode talks about Doctor
Laura.
Jenny​: Oh my god.
Kristin​: Yeah really. So Marti Noxon was like, ba-da-bing ba-da-boom.
Jenny​: Wow is that what Marti Noxon was like?


Kristin​: Well no because ba-da-bing ba-da-boom didn’t come out until later.
Jenny​: People weren’t saying ba-da-bing ba-da-boom before The Sopranos?
Kristin​: Well of course people were, I was probably saying ba-da-bing
ba-da-boom in the 90’s but I just meant The Sopranos wasn’t out yet. Great
talk.
Jenny​: Ok, so then we go to Snyder’s office where he’s furiously looking for
any possible way to blame anything and everything on Buffy.
Kristin​: Such a delight to see Armin Shimerman again.
Jenny​: Snyder!!
Kristin​: Love a Principal Snyder moment, and we get a double Snyder here.
Like a double Snyder punch with the “Buffy sit down in your seat, I have to
go deal with” what does he call it? “A pathetic little vegan”. The patheticJenny​: Billy. Billy the vegan.
Kristin​: “The pathetic little no life vegan” [Jenny ahh’s in the background].
Billy, who has… I would love to meet Billy.
Jenny​: Yeah.
Kristin​: Who’s Billy? The vegan in 1998.
Jenny​: Who’s the vegan in 1998Kristin​: Right? I didn’t even know vegans existed in ‘98. I knew, I was a
vegetarian in, I think I was a vegetarian already in 1998. I’m no longer a
vegetarian but I think I was a vegetarian from like ‘98 to 2000? Something
like that. Ate a lot of tomato sandwichesJenny​: Great.
Kristin​: Anyway, then we get, Jenny, then we get in our next scene. So
whatever, Snyder, yearbook-


Jenny​: Yeah the haunted book falls off the shelf.
Kristin​: The haunted book, but they don’t really get, it’s not really, Buffy just
puts it back. She just puts it back because she’s likeJenny​: Awwww because she’s responsible, if only Principal Snyder had seen
her put that book back, it might have earned her some points.
Kristin​: But then we go to Willow!
Jenny​: And we get some hell math.
[“Hell Math” jingle]
Hell Math
Jenny​: Not just any hell math but like a hell math joke?
[Clip of Willow speaking from the episode “I Only Have Eyes For You”]
“For next time read the chapters on information grouping and binary
coding. I bet you’ll think coding is pretty cool, I mean, if you find two
digit multi-stacked conversions and primary number clusters a big
hoot.
[laughter, school bell rings]”
Kristin​: I can't retain what she said but it was great, I loved it, but you were
very upset about this scenario.
Jenny​: Well I’m concerned for the welfare of the children because I don’t
think it's appropriate thatKristin​: Wow. Classic line Jenny.
Jenny​: Ah yes, what I’m always saying. I don’t think it’s appropriate when a
member of the faculty dies to just expect a ​high school student to take over
teaching the class.​ This is highly irregular.
Kristin​: I mean I think, right, I think that it was cute when Jenny Calendar
asked Willow to take over for like half a class, and like maybe fine, maybe


one more class but it’s been a while and Willow’s just excelling at her new
role as teacher and I feel like the Sunnydale parent teacher association
members are probably not thrilled that this is what their tax dollars are
paying for.
Jenny​: You know what else Willow’s doing? She is going through Ms.
Calendar’s effects and divvying them out.
Kristin​: Yeah which I guess makes sense because Jenny Calendar doesn’t
really have any family. You know, because her uncle diedJenny​: Uncle Enyos is gone.
Kristin​: And that was pretty much it, so… so yeah, this is where things take
a turn. Because I was, I was chuckling a whole bunchJenny​: You were having a good timeKristin​: I was having a great time, having a hootJenny​: [sarcastically] mmm gun violence, what a hoot.
Kristin​: [laughter] But I just… I just really enjoyed the Willow making a
really funny joke about math. And then it turns so hard around the bend
when Giles walks in and this is, you know a big part of this episode is us
seeing now, we’ve gotten through this Freddy Krueger Jr. nonsense of the
last episode and now we are really facing Giles’ grief.
And we see that through the whole episode and it starts with Willow saying,
you know “I found this and I did this,” and you can just see the pain in his
eyes and he’s so sad, and he takes the rose quartz and he walks away with it
and thenJenny​: We hear the remembering Jenny theme.
Kristin​: Yeah and I said to Jenny when we were watching this, how cool to
be somebody who scores television or movies, but like especially television,
because you have these themes that come back and they’re so effective.


Like, I was like, I feel… why am I crying? You know, like what is… and then
it's just my brain has associated that melody with the sad… I mean it’s a sad
song but I don't think that it would have affected me so powerfully had I not,
had my brain not made that connection earlier which is so fucking cool.
Brains are so coolJenny​: Brains are bonkers.
Kristin​: Music is so cool but sad, this is a sad scene. And then we go to
Buffy.
Jenny​: Buffy in class, falling asleep, dreaming a dream of class.
Kristin​: Dreaming a dream, yeah she doesn’t get far in space but does get
far in time.
Jenny​: HAH! She dreams of the same classroom in 1955 and that's where
she sees JamesKristin​: Right.
Jenny​: A studentKristin​: Yes and your classic scenario here of teacher-student love.
Jenny​: Right?
Kristin​: Right! Because this is like a whole thing, I mean this is a real thing
this happens all the time.
Jenny​: Oh yeah?
Kristin​: Yeah!
Jenny​: Oh. yeah, no you’re right.
Kristin​: I mean it's constantly, I feel like every other week there’s a headline
about, you know, some teacher-student relationship and there’s just a huge
amount of conversation around what is and isn't appropriate. Of course most


of the world landing in the camp of this is never appropriate, but then there's
like, but what… because this episode really does not judge their love.
Jenny​: No.
Kristin​: Like, at all.
Jenny​: Pretty neutral.
Kristin​: It’s super neutral. It’s like the entire pivot point is that she’s saying
we can’t do this and he’s saying but you love me, and like the end result is
that their love was so powerful that their ghosts stayed behind to resolve this
horrible thing that happened because their love couldn’t go forward and at no
point do the writers of the show, or does anything in this show say to us that
this love is wrong. It ends with them kissing and then going up into
somewhere.
Jenny​: Wow.
Kristin​: Right?
Jenny​: You are right.
Kristin​: I am right. I am right. And I like that, I like to push boundaries, I
like to really think about things, and I like to really challenge what is and
what isn't appropriate.
Jenny​: So classic move when you’re hitting on your male student.
Kristin​: Yes.
Jenny​: Lend him some Hemingway. Then Buffy wakes up in time to see her
teacherKristin​: Thank god, because who’d want to miss this.
Jenny​: Writing some possessed shit on this board.
Kristin​: “Don’t walk away from me bitch,” he writes.


Jenny​: Yeah which we know is of course an excerpt from the play that’s
going on on the balcony every night.
Kristin​: Skipping ahead, and we’ll talk about this more, I just wanna say
that I love that when we get to the end and this is Buffy and Angel and
they’re role reversed, because it’s a very Sadie Hawkins ghost moment where
the roles switch, but that they cut from the actual couple in the 50’s to Buffy
just so she can call Angel a bitch. I was like, good decision I enjoyed that, I
enjoyed it.
Jenny​: Satisfying.
Kristin​: Then Xander gives Sunnydale High School’s school motto.
Jenny​: “Something weird is going on.”
Kristin​: Right, which is great..Something weird, so I would like a t-shirt that
says “Sunnydale High - something weird is going on.”
Jenny​: Yeah.
Kristin​: And then, this might be one of my favourite poltergeist moments.
Jenny​: Oh it’s so great, so great. It’s a classic!
Kristin​: There’s so many good poltergeist moments actually but I love this
fucking locker arm.
Jenny​: Oh my god it’s so great.
Kristin​: Right. It’s so strong.
Jenny​: It’s a strong, strong, it’s been working out.
Kristin​: Xander like, now that i’m saying it I wanna go back and rewatch it,
because I just feel like Nicholas Brendon does a really good job of like… do
you think that they actually had something pull him or do you think that he
just acted that?


Jenny​: I think that, I think that the back of the locker situation was reach
throughable, I think they had a real arm.
Kristin​: I mean yeah when you see the arm yeah but it was just great, I
dunno, it just was great.
Jenny​: Yeah yeah.
Kristin​: And Buffy was like, really prying him off the locker. The students of
course, hellmouth students to their core, were just like [silly voice]
“mememememe.”
Jenny​: Right right right, of course.
Kristin​: But nobody wasJenny​: Hmm, it is Tuesday. Then, Buffy and Xander go to the library
immediately following this.
Kristin:​ Oh this is great.
Jenny:​ And everything is perfect, Willow is like, “oh Xander your shirt’s all
ripped, did you lose a round of locker time with Cordelia?” Or closet time?
Kristin​: “No, did Cordelia win another round in the broom closet?” is what
she says.
Jenny​: Right.
Kristin​: Great, Willow, sharpening her comedy chops. Is that whatJenny​: Yes, yes.
Kristin​: You don’t sharpen your chops? Do you?
Jenny​: Well… you hone them? You lick them?
Kristin​: Lick your chops [laughter]. Sharpen your wits.


Jenny​: We’re clearly masters of the English language.
Kristin​: Yeah we know a lot of things about a lot of things but then GilesJenny​: Oh my god there's this great moment of locker monster, loch ness
monster! So excited.
Kristin​: Oh my god he’s so excited about the paranormal, just “oooh, sounds
like paranormal phenomenon!”
Jenny​: Yep, yep, yep, yep, yep. And then Buffy says, “oh, we’ve got some
bad boo.”
Kristin​: Yeah. We’ve got a bad boo. A bad boo.
Jenny​: Great, so they’re sorting through this poltergeist thing and trying to
figure out “what do we need to do?” and what they determine is that the
poltergeist, the spirit that's haunting the school, needs some kind of closure.
So they realise we need to figure out what this thing wants.
Kristin​: Oh right.
Jenny​: And Buffy’s like, “I don’t care what it wants!” because she's all
conflicted, she is overidentifying much, as Cordelia notes later.
Kristin​: As Cordelia says.
Jenny​: Ok so then, we see George and Ms. Frank and, we haven’t even
mentioned, oh my gosh, all of the guest stars in this episodeKristin​: Oh my god so many.
Jenny​: Some of them did great things before, some of them went on to do
great things, the guy who’s playing James is of course Christopher Gorham
from Ugly Betty and Kristin’s favourite show Covert Affairs.
Kristin​: You guys I loved Covert Affairs, because I love Piper Perabo.


Jenny​: We also see John Hawkes in the role of George the Janitor, and he
went on of course to be one of the leads in Deadwood and he was in Me and
You and Everyone We Know and a bunch of other things and then, Ms. Frank,
who he’s about to shoot, is played byKristin​: What an intro for her. “She’s about to get shot”
Jenny​: Ah! Spoiler! Ms. Frank is played by Miriam Flynn who you might
remember as Cousin Catherine from National Lampoon’s Vacation, Christmas
VacationKristin​: Classic.
Jenny​: So great.
Kristin​: Right, so this scene happens.
Jenny​: Giles hears Jenny whisper “I need you” so he goes out into the hall
and sees this happening.
Kristin​: This is a fucking powerful poltergeist, like this is straight up in the
ranking with the poltergeist from the movie Poltergeist in power, it really,
and I’ll talk about it a little bit more at the end when it really gets fired up
here, but this is a fucking powerful ghost.
Jenny​: Yeah this is serious shit going on.
Kristin​: This ghost is not messing around so right, so this scene happens,
the polter-gun disappears again.
Jenny​: Right after Giles tackles GeorgeKristin​: I have a question about the consistency of this story, right, and
here’s my question. This happened in 1955 and we are to believe that this
ghost has been, well these ghosts but really the angrier one, the boyJenny​: I think what we’re seeing is all manifestations of James.
Kristin​: But then who possesses... oh he possesses both parties?


Jenny​: I think he possesses everyone and plays out both sides untilKristin​: Until he can resolve it. But so it’s 1998, this happened in ‘55.
Jenny​: It’s not even an anniversary of like an even numbered, 40 years.
Kristin​: So by the logic of the story, this would be happening at least every
year around the Sadie Hawkins dance.
Jenny​: Maybe they haven’t had a Sadie Hawkins dance since 1955 because
of this terrible tragedy.
Kristin​: But don’t you think they’d mention it, don’t you think they’d bring it
up, don’t you think the writers would have let usJenny​: Listen, perhaps that scene was cut.
Kristin​: I’m always suspending my, I’m happy to suspend my disbelief, I
love this episode, it’s a great fucking episode. I just wanna know what do you
think, what do you think out there, what do you think this ghost has been
doing from 1956 until 1998.
Jenny​: Just hanging out.
Kristin​: Maybe he’s gone on rounds, maybe he didn’t do it every year in the
same school he’s just been making the rounds of all the Sadie Hawkins
dances across the country.
Jenny​: But it happened at Sunnydale.
Kristin​: I know, I’m just trying to give them reasons here. Anyway, my next
note, Jenny, is “Our favourite throuple is moving?” Question mark?
Jenny​: Yes, yes, they are on the hunt for some fresh real estate and Angel
has found, Angelus has found, the perfect place.


Kristin​: Yes, replete with night blooming lilac or… I saw an Instagram post
about late blooming lilac and I think I confused that with night blooming
jasmine?
Jenny​: Ooh yeah…
Kristin​: So do you think that Willie the Bartender and the stationery man
who gives Angel his vampire stationery, there’s also a vamp realtor, who’s
like for the low, low price of 6 bodies you can get… you know what I mean,
how do they pay? Do they use money? We’re never gonna get the answers to
these questions.
Jenny​: Well they kill enough people that they could, like, if they’re crafty
about it, pickpocket or they could get a little more sophisticated that that.
Kristin​: Like stealing identities?
Jenny​: Stealing identities.
Kristin​: Credit cards?
Jenny​: Taking out insurance policies on people.
Kristin​: Well anyway, our favourite throuple is moving and this is, fucking
Angel.
Jenny​: This is particularly despicable.
Kristin​: It’s, but it’s soJenny​: It’s so over the top.
Kristin​: Right, he takes it to, he takes his ableist bullshit to a place where it
almost loses its power at this point, like it’s just ridiculous. He says, like
fourteen of his sentences in a row are just different plays on horrible ableist
jokes. He’s like, “hit the stairs, take a stand, roll with the punches,” like come
on!
Jenny​: Please-


Kristin​: It’s just, no.
Jenny​: No, no, no.
Kristin​: It’s not good but I’m happy to see the 3 of them again.
Jenny​: Yeah great. Also Angel’s eyeliner has thickened ever so slightly.
Kristin​: Has it?
Jenny​: Yes!
Kristin​: You’re doing a great job on keeping tabs on Angel’s eyeliner. Do
youJenny​: Angel eyeliner watch!
Kristin​:Do you think thatJenny​: Do I get a jingle?
Kristin​: Yeah well I was hoping that you’d make us a graph. Like could you
start keeping track now and graph the progress of Angel’s eyeliner?
Jenny​: Sure.
Kristin​: Ok thank you. So we’ll let you, we’ll give you the start of that graph
on social media. We’ll keep it… we’ll put it on the wall of your office Jenny.
Jenny​: Oh beautiful.

[Advert Break] {29:12}
Jenny​: This episode is brought to you by Bold Food. Do you travel to eat?
Bold Food Tours offer the experience of a lifetime to the hottest food cities
around the world, including Lima, Singapore, Barcelona and Austin, Texas.
Kristin​: You’ll travel to fishing villages, hawker centres and artisan
producers and other culturally rich food spots other tour companies


traditionally overlook. Experience everything from street food and cultural
attractions to stays at 5 star hotels and mind blowing restaurants, like
Central and Malabar in Lima and Restaurant Andre in Singapore. With Bold
Food Tours the research has all been done, so you can be guaranteed a
deliciously comprehensive experience.
Jenny​: With a limit of 12 guests, Bold Food Tours are intimate and highly
curated, there’s no other food tour in the world that's as food focussed as
Bold Food Tours, and nothing that offers such a range of culinary
experiences. All you have to do is bring yourself, your appetite and your
curiosity.
To learn more, go to boldfoodco.com and use code “BUFFY” to get $300 off
your first tour.
Kristin​: That’s boldfoodco.com B-O-L-D-Food-C-O.com offer code “BUFFY”
for $300 off your first tour.
Jenny​: This episode is also sponsored by Shudder, the premium streaming
video service devoted to thrillers, horror and suspense. Backed by AMC
networks, Shudder has a growing and dynamic selection of thrilling
premieres, exclusives and originals, including pregnancy horror comedy
“Prevenge”, Sophia Takal’s “Always Shine” and The Ring vs The Grudge
franchise mashup “Sadako vs Kayako”.
Kristin​: New this week is Shudder exclusive, the stylish and atmospheric
“Sweet, Sweet Lonely Girl”. When Adele is sent to look after her Aunt Dora
she is greeted with a life of loneliness, stuck in a room with a woman who
barely speaks. Adele’s lonely life improves for the first time however when
she meets the seductive Beth, but, after Beth pursues her to shirk her
duties, Adele faces a dangerous reckoning. Who is Beth? And what does she
want from Adele?
I hadn’t read this before and I am like, really hooked.
Jenny​: Me too!
Kristin​: Right! I was like ​Beth!


Jenny​: ​Seductive?!
Kristin​: From performances to visual style, A.D. Calvo’s queer, supernatural
chiller evokes the eerie atmosphere of 70s and 80’s horror, in the same way
Ty West did with “The House of the Devil.” “Sweet, Sweet, Lonely Girl” had
its premiere at the Fantastic Fest last September and is now streaming only
on Shudder.
Jenny​: Shudder is available on the web, iOS, android, chromecast, apple tv
and roku. For $4.99 a month or $49.99 with an annual membership, but our
listeners can get a free month by entering promo code “BUFFERING” at
check out.
Kristin​: I can’t wait to watch this.
Jenny​: Me neither.
Kristin​: That’s shudder.com S-H-U-D-D-E-R.com, promo code
“BUFFERING”.
Kristin​: So after we see our throuple moving we go back to the library.
Jenny​: Oh yeah and this is sad times.
Kristin​: And this is sad times mcgee over here because, first of all, first of
all before we get to sad times, Giles says that he has searched high and low.
He and the police have searched high and low for the gun and they found
nothing.
Jenny​: If both the police, if both Sunnydale PD and Giles have searched
high and low then the gun definitely isn't anywhere around.
Kristin​: [slightly talking over Jenny] Definitely isn't around, also great job
with the police being like sure, sure librarian help us look for the evidence.
Then my note here is everyone’s broken hearts are really clogging the
system.


Jenny​: Wow!
Kristin​: I mean it’s sad and we can talk about how it’s sad, it's just this
episode made me think about how Buffy is super fucked up because of losing
Angel, she’s really not over that nor should she be.
Jenny​: Not just over losing Angel but also over the fact that because of, in
her mind, because of her actions Angel not only was lost to her and to
everyone, but also killed Jenny Calendar.
Kristin​: Right, right, right. And how that of course affects Giles. It’s just
like they’re a mess and usually they are leading the charge here. So I feel
likeJenny​: But don’t worry. Willow, Xander and Cordelia are up to the challenge
of leadership.
Kristin​: They’re well aware of their limitations, I feel like their leaders are
really not firing at, firing with all cylinders and the 3 of them are like oh shit.
You know? Are we really supposed to be doing this?
But yeah this is devastating because this is the moment that we see Giles
say I know who the poltergeist is, it’s Jenny. Of course it’s Jenny and Willow
automatically of course using reasoning is like, why would this be Jenny?
Jenny​: Jenny doesn’t have anything in commonKristin​: Right there’s no overlap here at all, the only overlap is that there is
a spirit who had unresolved issues when that spirit passed, so, or when that
person passed leaving the spirit behind. So this breaks my fucking heart.
Jenny​: Me too. But luckily the Scoobies are ready to get into it. They’re not,
they go away from Giles, and have their separate conversation.
Kristin​: Yeah so this conversation really hit me. Jenny paused so I could
take detailed notes because this is, now Willow, Xander and Buffy, Cordelia’s
not in this conversation.


And they have this conversation, and Willow and Buffy occupy like polar
opposite ends of their experience of this story. Of the teacher and the
student falling in love and the student being furious that their love couldn’t
continue. Willow is like wow I really empathise with this situation and sort of
is trying to understand how feelings of love and abandonment and all of
these things could maybe get wrapped up to a place where you do
something that you didn’t mean to do. Whatever.
And Buffy of course, having been through what she’s been through, is like
fuck that. Like she is on the extreme of the other end saying like, you don’t
forgive this, you don’t whatever, he deserves what he got. And Willow is like
he deserved to die? Do you think that? And she’s, well no he deserved to go
to jail forever.
And Xander’s just like ping-ponging in the middle between them and I just, I
think that it’s a really interesting conversation. You know to think about
crime, a crime of passion and where it comes from and how we empathise
with people who have done something very, very, bad.
Or how we have the complete lack of ability to empathise with somebody
who has done something bad, it’s just, it’s really tricky and I feel like they
were trying to unpack it here. And I don’t know if we got a resolution but
that’s probably because there’s not a resolution, you know what I mean?
Jenny​: Right, this is complicated.
Kristin​: Deep, deep thoughts by Buffering the Vampire Slayer. But you
know what's not deep thoughts?
Jenny​: Cordelia?
Kristin​: Yeah.
Jenny​: Eating a school lunch? What happened to her medically prescribed
lunch waiting in the fridge after they found Doctor Gregory in the
refrigerator in “Teacher’s Pet” maybe she was like never againKristin​: Oh you think she was so scarred she could never go back to her
prescription lunches?


Jenny​: I just don’t, I don’t buy Cordelia not at least bringing lunch with her.
Eating that spaghetti? I don’t think so.
Kristin​: Yeah I don’t think so either, but I think also like maybe Cordelia,
Cordelia’s been changing a lotJenny​: That’s true.
Kristin​: She’s been really shifting in her values and her positioning in things
and she’s also been finding a little bit of happiness I think. So maybe she’s
like fucking I’ll have some goddamn spaghetti, you know.
Jenny​: Until it turns into snakes and bites her in the face.
Kristin​: Ugh. This is rough. Shout out to Xander for thinking that Sadie
Hawkins was invented by a quote “hairy-legged feminist”. I just, I was
personally excited about this because I am newly back from A-Camp and I
have not shaved my legs or my armpits since camp, and I just can’t do it
I’m just so proud of them. I just, I went swimming today at the pool, I did
my laps and I was like yeah mother fuckers! I have hairy legs! Suck it! You
know what I mean?
Jenny​: Oh wow.
Kristin​: So I would justJenny​: You told them to suck it?
Kristin​: I didn’t. In my mind I did. In my mind, actually nobody looked at
me, nobody cared. But if they did in my mind I would have told them to suck
it. So I just was like, shout out to me, shout out this hairy-legged feminist
right here.
Jenny​ I’m always shouting you out.
Kristin​: Thank you.


We get deeper on the Sunnydale governmental and police knowledge of the
hellmouth due to thisJenny​: Oh yeah yeah yeah, big conspiracy moment.
Kristin​: A lot of big things, like big important plot points. This, yes, Snyder
is talking to the police chief, we’re on a hellmouth how do you expect me to
handle this? The police chief is like do you want me to talk to the Mayor
about this, because we were told you can handle this shit.
[Jenny makes a noise in agreement]
So just like, we hear about a MayorJenny​: I wonder if we will ever meet that Mayor?
Kristin​: I wonder if we will, JennyJenny​: Snyder is squirming on that hook.
Kristin​: Yeah it’s just very interesting to me. I mean we’ll talk about this
more as seasons move on but I just, I’m very curious to know the inner
workings of the governmental system of Sunnydale. Because they know, and
there are people who know. I just, I wanna know more.
Jenny​: Interested to see what develops in that department.
Kristin​: So then the Scoobies now are like, on the case, they’re likeJenny​: They’ve got a plan!
Kristin​: Yes we’re gonna use the menghis tripod says Willow when she’s got
her little gold stars that she puts in a triangle and this is what they’re gonna
do, they’re gonna go to the school, they’re gonna light the candle at
midnightJenny​: Exorcism
Kristin​: Exorcism, which is so upsetting to Cordelia.


Jenny​: YeahKristin​: I saw that movieJenny​: Even the priest diedKristin​: Even the priest died. Which is a good call, I mean The Exorcist
[woo] I like horror movies, I don’t like that movie, uh-uh.
Jenny​: So Willow’s made these scapulas for them to wear around their
necks and she is really spearheading this situation. This casting if you will.
Kristin​: Yeah, she’s really going for it. She’s doing her duty, her Scooby
duty, we talked a little bitJenny​: Ha!
Kristin​: You liked Scooby duty?
Jenny​: Yeah it’s great.
Kristin​: We talked a little bit with Heather Hogan on the live episode last
week about how she loves Willow so much because of Willows bravery, that
Willow’s really going into these situations. Like Xander too, with no special
skills and no power but still sort of risking it all.
Jenny​: Just good hearts.
Kristin​: And Cordelia, my god. ‘Scuse me what’s going on that I forgotJenny​: Uh what’s… are you saying that Cordelia doesn’t have special skills?
Kristin​: You’re right, she has a million special skills.
We go to Dru and Angel. And Spike.
Jenny​: Angel’s being very suggestive.


Kristin​: Angel’s being extremely suggestive but also Dru has one of her just
incredible, brilliant, Drusilla visions. She is dancing, she is writhing, she is
making all manner of noises, I just… I love her, I really, Jenny I think she
earned her fucking jingle with this scene.
Jenny​: Oh by all means.
[“Drusilla jingle”]
Dru-silla
You-filla my heart with dread
And still I’m led right back to you
Jenny​: Great.
Kristin​: I have a question.
Jenny​: Yo.
Kristin​: The jingle made me think about things we do, where we talk about
the patriarchy and then I was like, who are we gonna give the sexual tension
award to?
Is it, the ghost and the ghost, because the ghost plays both parts. Is it
poltergeist on poltergeist action? Is that the sexual tension award?
Jenny​: Or it could go to student James and teacher Grace Newman?
Kristin​: It could.
Jenny​: Or it could go to Angel and DruKristin​: YeahJenny​: Because there’s a lot going on there, but that whole, you could
always use an extra set of hands that Angel says.
Kristin​: Right, because he doesn’t, he does not say Dru could use an extra
set of hands, he says Dru and Spike, well he says “you could both use an


extra set of hands” I find this interesting. I find it interesting that they are
both going to get help from Angel’s hands in a sexual manner. Tell me more!
[Jenny laughs]
Kristin​: I would like it to go, I mean I love the idea of giving it to poltergeist
on poltergeist because it’s fun, but I don’t know that I can make it through
an episode where these 3 are a throuple and not give it them?
Jenny​: Yeah…
Kristin​: Not to bore the listeners.
Jenny​: Yeah yeah, they’re working for it though.
Kristin​: So, I don’t know, Jenny you make the final call.
Jenny​: [without any hesitation] I’ll give it to the throuple.
Kristin​: Alright, throuple it is!
Jenny​: Great, great.
Kristin​: They’re gonna need a trophy room.
Jenny​: Oh I love a doomed love though.
[Kristin laughs]
Jenny​: Can we give out 2 trophies this week?
Kristin​: You know what, maybe we can leave this one up to our listeners,
maybe we could do a poll this week.
Jenny​: Please! Let us know.
Kristin​: We’re gonna do it togetherJenny​: We’re gonna do a twitter poll.


Kristin​: Everybody calm down, stop sending your emailsJenny​: Delete the email, delete it!
Kristin​: If you follow us on twitter you will participate in the first user
generated sexual tension award.
Jenny​: Oooh this is just like American Idol.
Kristin​: Yes, this is just like American Idol, we will tweet out on Wednesday
morning for who will win - poltergeist on poltergeist or the vampiric thrupleJenny​: OrKristin​: Oh.
Jenny​: The memory of James and Grace Newman.
Kristin​: Or the memory of… fine, that one’s not gonna win I can tell you that
right now.
Jenny​: What? Oh I guess it is kind of controversial.
Kristin​: We’ll put it there, we’ll put it there.
Jenny​: But, what theKristin​: No, not because it’s controversial because it’s a snooze-fest.
Jenny​: That’s the, that’s the love I love.
Kristin​: Ok, whatever, you’re influencing the audience! I’m influencing the
audience too.
Jenny​: ​You are! H
​ ow dare you.
Kristin​: Vote as your hearts desire. Ok, we’ll put it up Wednesday morning,
we’ll leave it up for 24 hours, that’s it! You’re listening to this episode a week
late that’s it, it’s over for you.


Jenny​: @bufferingcast on twitterKristin​: That’ll teach you, you’ve gotta listen right when it comes out.
Jenny​: So anyway, Willow runs into Giles while she’s preparing to start her
casting and they have this like very mutually distracted momentKristin​: You’re not supposed to be here.
Jenny​: Where, neither are you! Hmm scapula? Hmm sulphur? Very good.
Hmm yes and then he just goes back into the library and Willow goes on her
way.
Kristin​: And Cordelia! Nobody told Cordelia that when you’re in a horror
show or movie of any kind, dontJenny​: Don’t look in the bathroom mirror!
Kristin​: Ever! You don’t ever look in the fucking bathJenny​: And definitely don’t peel off a band aid while you’re looking in the
mirror, come on.
Kristin​: This is like straight out of The Craft, right, this is like the character
in The Craft, I can’t remember her name this is so embarrassing. The
character who plays Marsha in The Brady Bunch, the blonde in The Craft, I
can’t remember her nameJenny​: Sounds like a person, I don’t know.
Kristin​: Anyway, she is like the Cordelia of The Craft. She is very concerned
with her appearance, her looks and what-have-you and her thing is that all of
her hair starts falling out.
And so this reminded me of The Craft for 2 reasons - 1. Because the same
thing, it’s like the poltergeist knows that Cordelia’s weak spot, just like in
“Nightmares”, is her appearance. And so, gives her this huge scar on her
face, and also the scar reminded me of The Craft because Neve Campbell’s


character has the scarring on her back and that’s a whole thing, a plot point.
So i felt this was very craft-y.
Jenny​: Wow.
Kristin​: And then, Willow and the floor, now this is straight Poltergeist.
Jenny​: Just getting sucked into the floor.
Kristin​: Right, because the, have you seen the Poltergeist movies?
Jenny​: Uuuhhh?
Kristin​: ​Jennifer!​ Just a long umm?
Jenny​: I’ve definitely seen Poltergeist but not like recently enough tooKristin​: Remember?
Jenny​: Really remember. I know the TV is on, and like [mimicking the
movie] “they’re here.”
Kristin​: And she gets sucked into the TVJenny​: And the clown, the terrible clownKristin​: Right everybody knows the clown. And she gets sucked into the TV
and then she’s in this alternate reality where they can watch the white static
on the television and hear her in the background and it just reminded me of
this. With Willow getting sucked into the floor we’re like what would happen
to Willow if Giles didn’t take her out of that situation?
Jenny​: Yeah where would she?
Kristin​: Where would she be? Would she be in another dimension? Who
knows? They blow out their candles, they say their chant, it does not work at
all. And then bees, bees, bees, in all capitals.


Jenny​: So many bees. Also, Willow and Giles have a great shared moment
where after he saves her she’s like, Jenny could never be this mean. And he’s
like I know, I know it’s not her.
Kristin​: It reminded me that moment between Willow and Giles of that
moment between Buffy and Giles right after Jenny died, that like grief
moment where they are both also on the floor and like sharing that very
intimate thing. Uggh so Giles broke my heart this whole episode.
Jenny​: So they run away from the bees.
Kristin​: They run away from the bees and Buffy has a sweet door kick, she’s
like, get out of the way and Giles is like sure, and then she just slams her
foot, shatters the door, great great great.
Jenny​: Then they regroup at Buffy’s house whereKristin​: Oh my god, where is Joyce?
Jenny​: [chanting] Where is Joyce?
Kristin​: What if Joyce comes home and it’s likeJenny​: Oh it’s just my, my daughter, her 2 teenage friends and the librarian.
Kristin​: Drinking a cup of tea out of my teapot. Like come on. Also I loved
how Giles was drinking tea and there was a pot of coffee for the rest of them.
It’s like, he’s British so, he needs tea.
Right and then they have, we talked about this conversation a little bit about
Buffy and forgiveness and where that was all rooted and Xander has a really
powerful line here. Xander and Cordelia do a really great tag team, Buffy gets
very upset, she’s angry, she doesn’t want to forgive herself orJenny​: She says James destroyed the one person he loved in a moment of
blind passion and like, essentially concludes that no matter why he did it, it’s
just something he has to live with.


Kristin​: Right, and then Xander says he can’t live with it, he’s dead. Trying
to bring her back to reality which doesn’t really work, she storms out of the
room and Cordelia says “over identify much?”
Jenny​: Yes!
Kristin​: Ugh Cordelia.
Jenny​: Thanks Cordelia.
Kristin​: You know what? Goddamit give her her jingle, i can’t take it
anymore it’s been too many episodes without a Cordelia jingle.
[“Cordelia” jingle]
Cordelia (aah ah)
I love you Cordelia (aah ah)
You’re perfect Cordelia (aah ah)
Kristin​: Ok so then we go to what I called Buffy parting the black bees. You
know, because like parting the red seas… parting the black bees.
Jenny​: Wow.
Kristin​: Because it is. She walks up to them and they part and they allow
her inJenny​: We’ve been expecting you Miss Summers.
Kristin​: Yeah and we had a little conversation about Candyman in this partJenny​: Bleurgh.
Kristin​: And you haven’t seen itJenny​: Haven’t seen it, haven’t seen a single movie ever in all timeKristin​: Yeah apparently. You’re 0-4 or something at this point in this
episode, but if you have seen Candyman, ugggh, lot of bees, a lot of bees.


Jenny​: Lot of bees. Also, sorry we didn’t mention that the thing that prompts
Buffy to start walking back to the high school is that she finds the Sadie
Hawkins flyer from 55 in her jacket pocket and she hears Angel whisper the
same thing Giles heard Jenny whisper - “I need you.”
Kristin​: Yeah, right and so we go, Buffy goes into the school and I think we
all think on first viewing of this that Buffy’s going to be playing the girl and,
you know we don’t know who’s going to be playing the boy.
Giles, they get to the school, Giles is like well there’s nobody else in the
building how is this going to work? But Angel of course says that wasps don’t
care about the undead and it didn’t matter anyway because he could
withstand the stings and he’s here in the school, and so we think that he’s
gonna play the boy and she’s gonna play the girl and Buffy’s gonna get shot.
And that's what the Scoobies think, they’re downstairs saying she’s gonna die
what do we fucking do?
Nothing is their answer by the way, they just stand down there like I meanJenny​: We can’t get through those bees!
Kristin​: We can’t get through those bees. I mean I kinda feel them and then,
but no, there is a role switch here. The old Sadie Hawkins switcheroo. [sings]
The old Sadie Hawkins switcherooJenny​: That’s… great.
Kristin​: [singing] It’s just the old Sadie Hawkins switcheroo.
Jenny​: No… what do you thinkKristin​: [singing] You don't know who you’re gonna be it depends on who
the Sadie HawkinsJenny​: Do you mind if I? Do you think they switch roles because is it the
actual day of the Sadie Hawkins dance or do you think they switch roles
because in their actual pre Angel being evil relationship, Angel was older.
Angel was saying I just want you to have a normal life and you can’t have
that with me. Like oh she does say that-


Kristin​: He knewJenny​: That James identifies with her because she’s so sad.
Kristin​: Right. And this again, this poltergeist is so fucking powerful right,
the poltergeist is simultaneously pulling Willow through the floor, showing
Cordelia her face with scars, causing snakes to attack again in the thing,
immediately turning into bees … this is a powerful, powerful spirit.
So I think it is also possible that this spirit is so powerful that it knows if it
occupies them in these roles that it might have a shot at what it’s after.
Because for this cycle to be broken the person who gets shot cannot die. And
we know that Angel cannot be killed by a bullet.
Jenny​: Yep.
Kristin​: Unless its a teeny tiny wooden stake bullet. Do you think that would
work?
Jenny​: Maybe, like how big does, I guess I feel like eventually we see a
vampire get staked with like a pencil or something.
Kristin​: Yeah. So all I’m saying is - new invention. Guns for vamps - they
shoot little wooden daggers. Anyway. That is not what the polter-gun has
inside of it, the polter-gun has bullets so Angel doesn’t die.
Jenny​: Polter-bullets.
Kristin​: Ok.
Jenny​: But over the balcony he goes, falls on the steps.
Kristin​K: And shout out to the poltergeist for always having great aim and
precision here with the fallJenny​: Yeah, so precise.
Kristin​: The fall always happens the same, over the balcony.


Jenny​: And Buffy goes to the music room to kill herself.
Kristin​: So she is in danger stillJenny​: Oh my god but then Angel shows up!
Kristin​: Do we think Marcie is still up there? Like, just do we think Marcie is
just giggling upstairs?
Jenny​: No! Marcie’s with the FBI now.
Kristin​: Well maybe Marcie wants to like, go back to her old haunts some
time [Jenny groans] i’m just saying like maybe.
Jenny​: She could, maybe she could be watching everything.
Kristin​: So in the band room, Angel, Angel/the teacher… what’s her name?
Jenny​: Grace Newman.
Kristin​: Grace Newman. Comes back and they have this moment where she
says, I’m so sorry.
Jenny​: It wasn't your fault. Like it was an accident, I forgive you.
Kristin​: And then we getJenny​: While they’re listening to The Flamingos version of “I Only Have Eyes
For You” again. GreatKristin​: Great songJenny​: Love it!
Kristin​: Wonderful song. I’ll be putting up, just so you know, also on our
twitter and facebook pages a picture of Jenny and I dancing at our wedding.
Jenny​: Wow.


Kristin​: To “I Only Have Eyes For You”. It’s so thematic, don’t you think it’s
so thematic.
Jenny​: Very thematic. So thematic, I’m wearing my varsity jacket, the whole
thing. So making out ensues.
Kristin​: Well this is very cathartic for the viewer too, like we want almost as
much as Buffy wants to kiss Angel. You know, old Angel again. We want to
see their love again I think, I do, I shouldn’t speak for all of you but like I
know I wanted to see it, and getting that moment even though we know it’s
not them it’s these spirits living through them we get to see it. It’s really
nice, the spirits sort of ascend together into Marcie’s room and then Angel
comes to.
Well, Buffy sees Angel and ugh, heart, that’s a moment, that’s a really hard
moment. Because she’s just says “Angel” and then he just recoils and books
it. Just runs. And runs immediately to his new home where he takes a
showerJenny​: In the outdoor fountain.
Kristin​: With his pants and his shoes on. I’mJenny​: Furiously scrubbing his upper half.
Kristin​: We had issues with Angel putting all of his clothes back on before
going out into the alleyway in the rain and I have, I take issue again here.
Are you gonna shower or are you not gonna shower? We know that
everybody’s seen you naked, because you’re definitely all having sex
together. That much is clear. So why are you showering with your pants on
buddy? That's all I want to know.
Jenny​: Great question.
Kristin​: He’s disgusted with love, he felt even a millisecond is way too much
for a vampire to handle, so he needs a good kill.


Jenny​: So he and Dru leave.
Kristin​: Yes in search of a toddler. Sorry toddler.
Jenny​: And then.
Kristin​: And then!
Jenny​: Spike. Stands. Up. and kicks his chair unnecessarily.
Kristin​: Unnecessarily and also dangerous because probably he’s gonna
want to use, like i’m guessing that he’s gonna want to use the chair again.
Jenny​: Yeah if he didn’t stand up already, he’s definitely playing some kind
of con.
Kristin​: So like, maybe don’t break your chair man. But this is, this is a big
fucking deal, and Jenny I don’t know if you know this, there’s only 3 fucking
episodes left in the fucking season.
[Jenny makes shocked noise]
So Spike standing up and being back to, at least near to full power, at least
enough power not to need the wheelchair, and also his face has also healed.
Which I think we’re seeing really for the first time in this episode thatJenny​: No it’s been gradually healing.
Kristin​: It has been gradually healing, they’ve been doing a great job with
that.
Jenny​: I’ll be making another graph don’t worry.
Kristin​: So yeah, my last note of this episode is Spike’s back!
Jenny​: Really excited to see what that’s gonna mean.
Kristin​: Yeah.


Jenny​: Wow.
Kristin​: This was a great, this episode was fantastic. Well written Marti
Noxon, knocked it out of the park as usual.
Jenny​: Well acted. So many fun guest stars.
Kristin​: And we got to learn all about how much we hate Sadie Hawkins
dances.
Jenny​: Yes, yes we did.
Kristin​: So, a win win win win win I’d say.
Jenny​: Well hey, I’m Jenny Owen Youngs and when I’m not watching Buffy
with Kristin I’m usually writing and recording songs. You can learn more
about me and hear some of those songs at jennyowenyoungs.com/buffering
and you can give me a shout on twitter @jennyowenyoungs.
Kristin​: My name is Kristin Russo and you can find me twitter
@kristinnoeline that’s K-R-I-S-T-I-N-N-O-E-L-I-N-E. You can also learn about
the work that I do with LGBTQ young people and their families over on my
website kristinnoeline.com or at the respective websites that do that work,
everyoneisgay.com or mykidisgay.com.
Jenny​: Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on twitter and facebook
@bufferingcast and you can always drop us an email at
bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com
Kristin​: You sure can, you can also drop us a really great review over on
iTunesJenny​: That would be great!
Kristin​: We love those, we love you and we love those. There are other
great ways to support us. You can head on over to our website
bufferingthevampireslayer.com and click on Patreon. That is a place where
we have $1, $5 and $10 supporters who support us every month, keeping us
going and also get some really cool stuff.


At the $1 level you get into the secret facebook group which is rife with
wonder and vampire lore, and at the $5 level you get our songs every week
in advance, which is pretty rad, there’s tons of things over there. We would
love for you to join our Patreon family.
You can also support us over on Stitcher. Stitcher Premium is an awesome
place where you get exclusives, originals and you get our episodes ad free.
You can sign up for a free first month and get $5 off by just going to
stitcherpremium.com/buffy plus, one other way.
If you like shirts, if you like t-shirts, we’ve got ‘em. We’ve got t-shirts, we’ve
got pins, you can also find those on our website.
Thanks for all the support that you do give us because it is the reason that
we can keep this podcast alive. Or perhaps, undead.
Jenny​: Today’s episode was brought to you by Shudder. Backed by AMC
networks, Shudder grants you access to the best in thrillers, horror and
suspense, including Shudder exclusive “Sweet Sweet Lonely Girl”.
Kristin​: Find out what happens to Adele and Beth!
Jenny​: Wow what’s up with Beth?
Kristin​: Stream them all any time at shudder.com S-H-U-D-D-E-R.com and
use promo code “BUFFERING” at check out for a free month so you can find
out what the hell happens to Beth and Adele.
Jenny​: Thanks so much for listening, ‘til next time
Both​: Awooooooooooooooooooo
[Jenny performing “I Only Have Eyes For You,” off the album “Songs
from Season Two” by Buffering the Vampire Slayer]
Oooh-ooh-oh-oh oh aaah-ah-ah
Oooh-ooh-oh-oh oh aaah-ah-ah


Lunchroom snakes, killer bees
Quicksand stairs, and Cordelia-lia’s face
Fights repeat, and Ms Frank
She fell over the balcony
All because you need
forgiveness you can’t receive
Go on and haunt somebody else
Cause I’ve got some problems myself
Badder than you
Go on and haunt somebody else
Cause right now you flatter yourself
And closure for you
Is so long overdue
Oooh-ooh-oh-oh oh aaah-ah-ah
You were here, now you're gone
You don't know, but the shape of you still lingers on
Everywhere, can’t escape
From the dirt or the air
All because you need
Forgiveness you can’t receive
Go on and haunt somebody else
I see you've forgotten yourself
Hollow straight through
Go on and haunt somebody else
You leave me afraid of myself
And closure it’s true, is so long, overdue
Oooh-ooh-oh-oh oh aaah-ah-ah
Oooh-ooh-oh-oh oh aaah-ah-ah

