Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 4.11: Doomed
[Chime]
Kristin​: Hey there. We are releasing today's episode a day early because today,
November 6th, marks the midterm elections here in the United States. We know
that so many of you have been fighting the good fight and will continue to do so in
as many ways as you can and that some of you were even running for your local
office in this election. This is our call to all of you to remember to, of course, vote
today, but also to do your best to ensure that others vote as well. There are so
many people in this country who are not able to vote today and who would give
anything to have their voices heard in this and in every election. So keep them in
your minds and your hearts today as you go to the polls. Ask your neighbors if they
need a ride, call your friends and family, put on your Buffering best and send us
your selfies once you get your “I voted” sticker.And listen, keep holding each other
tight like you're so good at doing.
Another thing to remember is that we are all in this fight together and we love you.
As a measure of some of that love for you, I am of course going to bring you the
new segment I've started, which is spooky news. Now I want to encourage you all
to please send me your suggestions for spooky news. You can email us at
bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com. Send me all of the spooky news you come
across because I may feature it in this new little segment. And something to bring a
smile to all of your faces, Jenny has given us theme music for our new spooky news
segment.
[Spooky news jingle plays] Spooky news!
Kristin​: Okay, your spooky news for today is about a woman named Amethyst
Realm who is a spiritual counselor. Now I'm going to go out on a limb and say that
I'm not sure that Amethyst Realm is her given name, but maybe it is, I don't know.
It just seems like, was she named Amethyst Realm and then she decided to be a
spiritual counselor, or did she decide to be a spiritual counselor and then name
rename herself Amethyst Realm? Well, that's not the point. The point is that
Amethyst has come forward with the fact that she is, after having taken over 20,
ghost lovers in her life, she met a ghost who she fell in love with while she was
vacationing in Australia.
So let's, let's go through this, right? So Amethyst is in Australia. She's on vacation.
She walks and, sort of like, senses this presence, this ghost presence, and falls in
love with this ghost. And she's like bummed because she has to go leave and go
back home and she has to leave Australia. So she gets on a plane, she's like super


sad because she left her ghost lover behind. But then guess what, you guys, her
ghost lover was on the plane because the ghost lover loved her too. She was really
excited. And in one of the articles I've read on this story from news (dot) com (dot)
AU, she's quoted as saying [Kristin quoting Amethyst Realm] “I was happy and
excited, so excited that we had to do something about it.”
Kristin​: This is, she's talking about when they're on the plane [Kristin quoting
Amethyst Realm] “so excited that we had do something about it. So we headed to
the plane loo”
Kristin​: She's from the UK, can you tell? And, well, she says, [Kristin quoting
Amethyst Realm] “Now I'm a member of the mile high club”
Kristin​: so, um, she had sex with the ghost in the bathroom of the plane, first of
all, and then they like got home and they went to this cave like this, like whatever,
touristy cave and Amethyst was like super in love and ghosty was super in love and
halfway through the tour ghosty was like, I want to hang back, and that's when
ghosty proposed. Now Amethyst says there was no going down on one knee
because he doesn’t have knees, you guys, he's a ghost! But this was the first time
that Amethyst heard ghosty speak. Now she refers to him as him in this interview,
but in this interview she also says that his energy is like no other lovers, but that
it's more feminine and gentle. Adding quote, [Kristin quoting Amethyst Realm] “I'm
not 100% sure this lover is male”
Kristin​: Sooo, because the little queers. It's queer anyway because it's a ghost! It's
a ghost. Now, here's the part of the story that I find most interesting. Amethyst
says that she now wants to have a baby with her ghosty husband. I mean, rude,
why are we saying husband? We don't even know the gender of this ghost. So rude.
Amethyst said she knows the idea sounds crazy, but she adds that she looked into
it and she doesn't think it's totally out of the question.
Listen, we're here, we're talking about vampires and demons and ghosts and all
sorts of things and you know that I 100% believe in ghosts. I believe in them more
than ever. Now that I live alone and I'm watching The Haunting of Hill House, I
definitely believe ghosts are real. So I'm here for Amethyst. This story definitely
makes me chuckle because of all of its nuance and mostly because I love the fact
that Amethyst is like… I know, she's chill because she's marrying a ghost and she
wants to have the ghost’s baby. But I love that she's even like… that her chillness
extends into, listen, I don't even know. Ghosty, doesn't have knees. And I don't
even know if ghosty is a boy or a girl or if this is a non-binary ghosty. I have no
idea. All I know is I'm in love with ghosty, I want to spend my life with ghosty so,
to that say more power to you Amethyst, welcome to our spooky news segment,
keep us updated.


And I would also like to say that this really puts a spin on everything that's
happening with ghost Dennis and Cordelia. Like, you know, I didn't even think
about the fact that like maybe ghost Dennis had a crush on Cordelia, maybe they
made out a little bit. You know what I mean? I just didn't think about it. And
Amethyst is making me think about these things. So that my friends is your spooky
news for this week.
Just a couple of other quick news items that are related to Buffering the Vampire
Slayer and not ghost weddings. Angel On Top had an incredible episode last week
with “Parting Gifts”. They had an amazing interview with the actor who played
Barney, and next week they're coming at you with some “Somnambulist”, which is
hard to say, but I did it.
And very soon you're going to be getting some fun new jingles over in Angel-land
and some new merchandise. So if you aren't already listening, you should get on
over there and begin that watch ‘cause it's super fun and they have a lot of fun
things coming down the pipeline for you. We have, as always, so many fun things in
our store. You can go to bufferingthevampireslayer.com and click on “Shop”. We
have socks and we have shirts, we have CDs, we even have vinyl now. We have a
lot of fun things in there, and I know I'm a little bit biased, but I think they would
really make very wonderful holiday gifts, just saying.
As you probably know by now, but just in case you don't, we will see you London so
soon. We’re going to be at The Vampire Ball from November 30th ‘til December
2nd. And Seattle, we're also coming for you! January 19th and 20th we will be at
PodCon. You can find all the information about where we will be on our website.
You just go to bufferingthevampireslayer.com, click on “Calendar” and you know, if
you want to have a real good time you could actually just type in bufferingthe
vampireslayer.com/jennycalendar because that's how you find our calendar. All of
the details are there.
I'm going to stop talking now because I've given you spooky news. I'm going to
remind you one more time to please vote. Send us your pictures of you voting.
Make us feel so wonderful today that we are surrounded by this incredible
community, this incredibly active community, who is just doing so, so much to fight
the good fight to fight on behalf of all of those who can't fight. I love you all. Jenny
loves you all. Vote, and we will now get into the episode.
[Buffering theme]


Jenny​: Hello and welcome to Buffering The Vampire Slayer, a podcast where we
are still watching and discussing every episode of Buffy The Vampire Slayer one at
a time, spoiler-free. I am Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin​: Yes. And I am still Kristin Russo and this week we're talking about Buffy
Season 5, Episode 1, Doomed. Which, you know, it's not often that we have the
title spoken in the episode so many times, but boy do they say “doomed” a lot in
Doomed —
Jenny​: Yeah, right?!
Kristin​: [Laughs] Stay tuned at the end of this podcast every week for an original
song written by us recapping the Buffy episode we are discussing. And if you
haven't yet started listening to our Angel podcast, Angel On Top, hosted by Brittany
Ashley and Laura Zak, what in the good hell are you doing?
Jenny​: What indeed? Doomed was written by Marti Noxon, David Fury and Jane
Espenson and Directed by James A. Contner. It originally aired on January 18th, in
the year of our Lord, 2000 —
Kristin​: [Gasps] Wait, Jenny, do you remember? We made it through Y2K—
Jenny​: Y2K!
Kristin​: We survived! I've been so afraid!
Jenny​: Oh Thank goodness! Oh my God.
Kristin​: I’ve been so scared.
Jenny​: Phew!
Kristin​: I put all of my computers and electronics in the refrigerator —
Jenny​: In the refrigerator?!
Kristin​: I was just terrified, but we made it, congratulations!
Jenny​: Wow, I'm so glad that we didn't die, we didn't lose all our data, time didn't
start moving backwards or whatever people thought was going to happen at Y2K.
Kristin​: Just saying that if a Y2K reference makes it into the song for Doomed, I
personally will not be mad about it.


Jenny​: [Laughs]
Kristin​: So, this is the one… Also, three people wrote this?
Jenny​: I was going to say —
Kristin​: That's a lot of writers.
Jenny​: That's three good writers and this is kind of a bad episode.
Kristin​: Yeah, it's like, fine —
Jenny​: It’s like, okay. It's definitely not greater than the sum of those parts.
Kristin​: No, it has —
Jenny​: There are like enjoyable things, delightful things. Maybe each of them
wrote one of the plots and that's why it feels kind of like, disjointed. Buffy's plot
just feels kind of like, I don't care.
Kristin​: Yeah.
Jenny​: I don’t know, I care a little. Riley's very compelling. Sorry, sorry. Sorry. You
haven't even said “this is the one where” —
Kristin​: I haven’t even said what it is. Okay, this is the one where while attempting
to redefine her relationship with Riley, Buffy must also stop demons that are
determined to reopen the hell mouth. Thank you IMDB for that —
Jenny​: Why do demons want to die all the time?
Kristin​: Well a demon —
Jenny​: They just want to end the world.
Kristin​: Oh oh oh right. It's true. It's, you know, it's conflicting because often we
see demons trying really hard to stay alive and yet their whole mission is to end
everything. Like it makes more sense to me, you know, like the demons that we
were talking about in - what was the episode of Angel that like sort of paralleled
World War II?
Jenny​: Right, right, right, right, right.


Kristin​: Right, right right? The episode “Hero” that had more of a... Okay, these
demons are like… their intentionality is that they only think that pure blooded
demons should inhabit the earth. Like fucked up, but in the end they're living still. I
don't understand the whole end at all, end humanity. You want to keep the earth
for your demon selves.
Jenny​: It's weird.
Kristin​: Anyway. Apparently, you know, for an episode that we aren't totally
obsessed with, we have a lot to say about it already. We haven’t even gotten to the
previously on and we're like, wow!
Jenny​: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin​: So unless you have more to say about the previously on, which I don't —
Jenny​: No, no.
Kristin​: I am very pleased with how this episode begins. I think it's really nice. Like
it's really just the same shot that we left from Hush —
Jenny​: Right, picking up from the end of Hush.
Kristin​: Yeah. And there's silence, and then you hear a dog barking?! To which I
say, could dogs bark in Hush? Like could animals make noises in Hush? I don't
remember hearing any noises at all. So, I would love to see a scene that maybe
was cut where we see a dog barking, but there's no bark coming out of its mouth.
Jenny​: Oh, interesting. Yeah, we didn't see any... when they cut away, it's all the
people's voices getting sucked out of them. We didn't see any doggos.
Kristin​: No doggos shown. Speaking of doggos, just a small shout out - you all
know Emily McLongstreet at this point, who does our sexual tension bracket at the
end of the seasons. She's a wonderful human. And, if you didn't see, just scroll
back a bit on our Twitter because Emily did a side by side photo collage of
characters from Buffy and their doggos, like, the dogs that look just like them and
it's really, really brilliant. So you said doggos made me think of that. Wanted to just
shout you out, Emily for always doing really fantastic work on all of our behalves,
so thank you. So they start to talk, right? And I think —
Jenny​: Yes and here it is. Here it is. Indisputable proof. Buffy is a Capricorn on the
cusp of Aquarius. Here we are.


Kristin​: Yes, spoken right out of her own mouth. So confirmed. Something, Jenny,
that I noticed, is that they each ask each other a question. Riley says, “what are
you?” And Buffy says, “who are you?”
Jenny​: Rude, Riley!
Kristin​: Um, yeah! I'm going to give Riley a jingle later on for another more... I'm
a little bit more offended later in the episode with Riley, but I was just like, yo
dude, maybe take a cue from being a person and “what are you?”, but it kind of
underlines, I think some of the themes in this episode where Forrest is saying a
Slayer is like a boogeyman, it doesn't exist and blah blah blah. And the whole
Scooby gang and the way that they gather information is so at odds with the very
grounded military based way in which Riley and the initiative get their information.
So I just thought writing-wise it was like a cool little nod to what we were about to
journey through.
Jenny​: Yeah. I guess there is a lot of, sort of like, seeing both sides and how their
worlds, kind of like, function differently across this episode.
Kristin​: Yeah. And of course it gives us this hilarious — there's a couple of
moments in this episode as much as I did continually forget what happened in this
episode — I would like watch it and then a week would pass and I'd be like, wait,
what again it happens in Doomed?!
[Both laugh]
Kristin​: But there are some key little lines here that I've seen elsewhere and like
pulled from other places and this is one of them, right, where she's like “Slay-er,
chosen one. She who hangs out a lot in cemeteries. The Slayer, The”. It's pretty
nice.
Jenny​: But also, where are you going to look that up?
Kristin​: That's true. Well in any of Giles’ books, but The Initiative doesn't have a
hold of anything like that so —
Jenny​: No and search engines are pretty new at this point.
Kristin​: I know we usually really really go in order but I'm feeling inspired and so
I'm just going to jump ahead a little bit because I want to talk about this. The
books and like the way that they gather information and all of that, and how it's
presented to us is in stark contrast to each other: the Scoobies and The Initiative.


And, there's this moment that happens later where Forrest is talking about the
Slayer and Riley's like, “but what else is there?” and Forrest is like, “oh they're just
animals man.” Like that's it. It's just like whatever. And it just really made me think
about how as human beings we can compartmentalize to see only what we want to
see, right? Like Forrest literally inhabits the basement of a building where there are
all sorts of demons and monsters and is still like, “yeah, there's nothing mystical
here, they're just, rare animals”, and just lives that way without ever questioning
that there might be more to this. And I think that's one of the major differences
between The Initiative and, you know, the Slayer and the Watcher. And that whole
thing is like, one is rooted in facts and data and they are animals and this is
measurable. It's all measurable.
Whereas Buffy and crew are very much like, I feel like they're more like feeling it
out, you know? They're like really listening, really, kind of, in touch with the bigger
picture —
Jenny​: They’re, like,kind of listening. But there is that thing that we periodically
touch on which is that just because vampires want something different than
humans doesn't make one or the other necessarily good. Like, what if vampires
look at humans the same way that Buffy looks at vampires?
Kristin​: Sure, sure, sure. That's true. There's definitely a divide there happening
for them. But I just mean in general, they're thinking about what does this demon
want? What does it feel? What does it need? Like, how does it feed? They're sort of
thinking about it from all angles. You know, which as we see in this episode
obviously prepares them, and I think we'll continue to see, it prepares them much
more than just data on a page does or can —
Jenny​: Kill, neutralize, whatever.
Kristin​: Yes. And part of that might also be that Buffy is the Slayer and so she can
run after a monster in the forest without any weapons or backup. Right? And so —
Jenny​: Hell yeah.
Kristin​: [Laughs] So if you don't have that ability, then perhaps you do have to be
more grounded and practical for safety, for, you know, trying to stay alive. So I
don't know, apparently coming into Doomed with some big thoughts. I apologize
everyone, but I have big thoughts today.
Jenny​: I'm here for it, super here for it. You know what else I'm here for?
Kristin​: What else are you here for Jenny?


Jenny​: Well, they're having this whole conversation and he's all like, “I can't tell
you about myself”, and she's like, “cool, well let me tell you about yourself instead”.
And then she just bullseyes him point by point by point by point. And that's all
great. And then she's like, “I'm the Slayer”, and then he's like “you're amazing.
You're so strong. I'm a walking bruise today. If you see me with my clothes off…”
And then he breaks off there, and then they make some meaningful eye contact
with —
Both​: [Sexily] Yes
Jenny​: And then… What then?! What happens if she sees you with your clothes off,
Mark Blucas?
Kristin​: Jenny was like, “so what do you look like with your clothes off?!”
Jenny​: Yeah, it's very important for me, for science, to know.
Kristin​: How can I do this podcast without having all of the data?
Both​: [Laughs]
Kristin​: I think too that this really sets up another theme of, not only this episode
but really like this season, which is the fact that these two have just discovered that
they are way more than met the eye to each other. Right? But, like, sex is still
enough to just wipe all of it away. They're like, “yeah, we should really blah blah
blah”, and then he talks about his clothes being off for one second and they're
immediately derailed —
Jenny​: And they’re both like “ah, what were we saying?”
Kristin​: [Laughs] Yeah. So —
Jenny​: Dude, also, Buffy is like, “I thought you were a nice normal guy, but you're
not”, and let me tell you something, two episodes ago Buffy was like, “He's great.
He's just like a nice normal guy though.”
Kristin​: [Laughs]
Jenny​: And to that I say, at great personal risk to myself in the eyes of our
listenership, [shouts] women!


Kristin​: [Laughs] It is true. She is going against her own wishes here. She kind of
got what she asked for but doesn't want it. But it's complicated. It's complicated.
You know what is not complicated at all, Jenny?
Jenny​: What's that?
Kristin​: The giant earthquake that shakes Sunnydale right to its core and oh, the
cameramen! They can't keep their cameras steady —
Jenny​: Oh my gosh. The cameras are just shaking like crazy. Now, do you think
Amy, um, oh, what's the word? Anticipates this? Amy the rat?. And do you think
that — because later we see the demons, kind of getting all squiggly all over the
place, and we're led to believe that it has something to do with the impending
doom, you know?
Kristin​: Oh, are we? I thought it was just the impending earthquake.
Jenny​: No, but it's after the earthquake.
Kristin​: Oh, I just thought maybe some other earthquakes happened. [Laughs]
Jenny​: [Laughs] Well, I mean, this is one of the many places where this episode
really doesn't, like, totally nail it down. The corners are definitely coming up. But,
so, either those demons are just shook up after the earthquake, or they're shook up
because they sense something is a foot. And, as the Scoobies find out later, yet
another attempt upon the life of the world is being taken —
Kristin​: Again?!
Jenny​: By the porcupine demon squad. So, when Amy starts squeaking out, do we
think that it is supernatural or just animal instinct in nature?
Kristin​: I vote animal instinct in this poll. I very much thought the whole time that
even the riled up nature of the monsters was just the after effects of the fact that
the teutonic plates — is that what they're called? — shifted in the —
Jenny​: Tectonic, tectonic —
[Crosstalk]
Jenny​: Teutonic is Riley, tectonic is the earth’s plates.


Kristin​: [Laughs] Well, I mean, so tectonic and teutonic plates shifted in this
earthquake, if you know what I mean.
Jenny​: Sure, sure.
Kristin​: So, yeah, I read it as that, but a good discussion point. You know, feel
free to pause the podcast now if you're in the car with somebody or if you have a
friend that you're listening with and discuss amongst yourselves. [Laughs]
Jenny​: Yes. Talk it out. Immediately following the earthquake, Riley is me, and is
like, “wow, and earthquake, how exciting! Wow. Everything looks slightly different
now, I'm still alive. Wow!”
Kristin​: Buffy's like, “listen, bitch, I fucking died last time —
Jenny​: Buffy in the sunken place. Buffy is like, “you don't understand, I am
triggered”.
Kristin​: Buffy is fucked up, for good reason. And I forgot that there was an
earthquake involved at all in a previous season. Like that wasn't even on my radar,
you know? I remember so much about that episode, but I didn't remember that
there was an earthquake. But yeah, she's fucked up cause she's like “oh, the last
time this happened I fucking died.” Which she doesn't say to Riley, but she says
later on when we get to Giles and his map, can't wait to get there! But before we
get there, we go to the credits —
Jenny​: We have to go to the credits baby, because —
Kristin​: [shouts] Jenny!
Jenny​: Guess who's [sings] in the credits? It's Marc Blucas, looking so good. Yeah.
Kristin​: [Laughs] Beautiful song. I'm sure you prepared that one for many, many
days.
Jenny​: Yes. Yes. I'm very excited for everyone's least favorite butterscotch hunk to
officially join the cast, credit style. How exciting.
Kristin​: Yes. Welcome. Welcome Marc. Some of us are happier — no, we're all
happy to see you, Marc. Some of us happier to see you, Riley, than others in the
credits. But he's here —


Jenny​: [Shouts] Also, speaking of dudes being hot — I don't know when our
podcasts became mostly about dudes being hot — but Spike is hot.
Kristin​: I think it took the most of your turn when Xander put on the Speedo. Like,
I think that's the journey of us and this podcast. I think that's when shit really went
off the rails and became Hunkmania — Hunkomania? —
Jenny​: That was way back at the end of Season 2. So it's been a while. We've been
a hunk-centric podcast for some time now. But Spike is hot.
Kristin​: Spike is real hot. Spike is super hot in this scene and also, not to get too
ahead of — I'll talk about it later too — but later when spike finally gets his fucking
clothes back together, woo! Those blue jeans, excuse me, sir! Looking very nice.
Looking very nice indeed.
Jenny​: He looks so great.
Kristin​: He refers to his chair as his sleeping chair, which really tickled me.
Jenny​: [Laughs]
Kristin​: It has gotten sodden from the earthquake —
Jenny​: His sleeping chair. Listen, I'm here to fucking tell you. I'm here to tell you
and everyone listening that I recently went to my friend's house. My friend had a
new chair, I got in the chair. He was like, “push that button” and it kind of like,
swung me down and then he was like, “push it the other way” and then it swung
me back up to a regular sitting position. Then he was like, “turn this knob” and then
the whole chair started vibrating and I was like, okay. And then —
Kristin​: It just sounds to me like you were in Star Trek or something. It doesn't
sound like you were just a normal chair.
Jenny​: No, it felt very Star Trekkian. But the thing is that, and I was like, wow, this
is so great, and this chair was like the color of gold, right? And then I —
Kristin​: [Laughs] What is this story?
Jenny​: And then I turned on this episode and was like, holy fucking fuck, how did I
miss this? I was in the exact same chair that Spikes sleeps in. It's just a different
color, and in my friend DJ's house. And listen, I'm here to add, I'm here to pause it
based on this new information. That's Spike's sleeping chair is capable of vibrating.


Kristin​: You think?
Jenny​: You heard it here first.
Kristin​: Wow.
Jenny​: Do not fuck with me.
Kristin​: Okay.
Jenny​: It is the same chair. Trust.
Kristin​: Okay, well we can trust her. We can call upon you, listeners, to do some
research, to find out, do those chairs come and vibraty and non-vibraty options?
Jenny​: Yeah, let us know.
Kristin​: The chair you described sounds real expensive, you know, and it just
doesn't seem like, Xander, given his economic status, his family's economic status,
would have such a high level chair. Especially —
Jenny​: I think they got it at like a Salvation Army.
Kristin​: Like, somebody just didn't realize it's its worth and just tossed it and they
picked it up?
Jenny​: Uh huh.
Kristin​: All right. Okay. Well we'll find out. I can't wait. You can email us at
bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com, all of your chair facts.
Jenny​: Please.
Kristin​: Something else I want to talk about that we learned in this scene, is that a
Xander — well, Xander first of all, is really puffing his chest in a way that I'm kinda
into, you know? He's just like, “yo dude” —
Jenny​: Is that right?
Kristin​: I mean not like “into”, but I'm into the fact that he's like, “listen, I'm
fucking going to work, I'm doing all this shit, I'm buying your blood.” And that's
where the record scratches for me. I was like, wait, say what? So, you guys are
harboring Spike, but also part of Xander's salary is going toward blood for Spike?!
That’s like —


Jenny​: Yeah, shouldn't he be getting, like, a stipend from Giles or something? —
Kristin​: The vampire’s council? Yeah. But so, they're buying his blood. But yeah, I
just like how Xander — I like how Xander's telling Spike like, “listen dude, you're
like really leeching off of my shit, and the house is a mess and I have to go to work.
So like get your shit together” —
Jenny​: Do some laundry!
Kristin​: Yeah! do some fucking laundry.So before we get to the results of Spike
doing laundry, which is definitely my favorite part of the episode, we go to the
dorms, right, where Willow makes just a classic 19th century literature joke.
Jenny​: Oh my God. Yeah.
Kristin​: Thanks for that, Willow. You know who would've loved that fucking joke?
It's fucking —
Both​: [Shouts] Tara!
Jenny​: Yeah, where’s Tara, when that joke gets rolled out?
Kristin​: God, she would have laughed that zigzag part right out of her hair. She
would have thought it was the funniest thing.
Jenny​: [Laughs]
Kristin​: And other than that, the only thing that really happens in this scene is that
we learn that there's going to be an earthquake party. Of course there's going to be
an earthquake party —
Jenny​: College!
Kristin​: College, where there's always a reason for a party. And there's this
moment right where Willow is like, “you should bring Riley” and Buffy is looking
really hot in this scene, like, just real good. Buffy is like — in this orange shirt — “I
don't know. Riley's busy”, proving once again that all of the Scoobies are great at
lying.
Jenny​: Yeah, they're all so bad at lying.
Kristin​: [Laughs]


Jenny​: And then she's like, “I gotta go talk to Giles” and Willow's like, “is anything
wrong” and Buffy’s like, [Jenny imitates Buffy, who is bad at lying] “no, nothing is
wrong. Everything is fine. Do not worry Willow, my friend”. Like, everybody get
your shit together!
Kristin​: People really need to get their shit together. But you know who has his
fucking shit together Jenny? Is —
Both​: Giles!
Jenny​: If his shit is, fucking, pins all over a map, then fuck yeah, he's got it
together.
Kristin​: Oh, he's so literally — so it like reminded me of like a —
Jenny​: He is, like, giddy about this map.
Kristin​: It reminded me of, like, a little kid playing battleship, you know, he's just
moving points around and he's so excited.
Jenny​: Totally.
Kristin​: He's so annoyed with Buffy who's busy dealing with posttraumatic stress
and he's like, “just fucking shut up already. Can we play with my map?” You know?
Jenny​: I will say Giles is wearing a very nice sweater in this scene.
Kristin​: Well, you know, it's about time cause, you know, Giles —
Jenny​: He was wearing some not so great sweaters recently. This one is banging.
Kristin​: Yeah. He's probably just really sad about Olivia leaving. And you know,
when you get sad about a person leaving, sometimes you just need to make
yourself look really good so that you feel better about yourself. And that's probably
why Giles was wearing that nice —
Jenny​: He would be sending her selfies if selfies were a thing at this point in time
—
Kristin​: No, no, no. He wouldn't be sending her selfies. He would be taking selfies
and putting them on social media so she could see them, you know, like come on —


Jenny​: Still incredibly British — “pip, pip look at my map.”
Kristin​: [Laughs] So yeah, Giles is just like, “will you stop focusing on what may be
and focus on what is?” He's all hyped up, him and his beautiful map. And then we
go to Riley and Forrest, the love birds that they are. And it really gets — I think
they take it to a whole new level in this —
Jenny​: Really?
Kristin​: I do, I do. We'll get there, we'll get to the balls, we'll get to them.
Jenny​: The balls!
Kristin​: But for now, Forrest — and we talked about this a little bit already — but
like he's basically like, “the Slayer is like the Easter bunny”, you know, “this shit
isn’t real.” Like, “what we do is science. It's not magic.” [Laughs] Something that I
want to talk about — I mean these scenes are, like, kind of whatever — I feel like I
don't have anything massive to say in many of them, but this scene — so like
Forrest and Riley are talking and they're talking about like science versus not
science or whatever. And then this monster walks by and he's all fucking amped up
because of the earthquake or ‘cause of doom or who knows why. And he throws off
the person that's walking him and like attacks Forrest and gets forced in a
headlock, and Forrest is like, “um quick with that hypo” or whatever. He's talking
to this dude whose literal entire job is to fucking put liquid in a needle and give it to
a monster. And this dude — I don't know where they hired him — but he definitely
fudged his resume because he cannot keep it together. He drops the needle like
eight fucking times and I just really enjoy the mess of it all. I'm like, who is this
dude?
Jenny​: Yeah, yeah. He definitely got somebody else to take the hypo-loading test
for him or something.
Kristin​: [Laughs] Yeah.
Jenny​: So, it's off to the aftershock party, of course. And Willow has gone alone —
Kristin​: Did they have — remember aftershock? Isn’t aftershock liquor?
Jenny​: Oh, ew, yes.
Kristin​: That should've been the drink special at the fucking aftershock... Okay.
Sorry. Continue Jenny.


Jenny​: Okay. So wow, we see Percy and it's so exciting for 0.5 seconds before I
figure out that Percy's just being kind of a jerk.
Kristin​: Oh my God. He's being such a fucking asshole —
Jenny​: Mid-sentence that girl's like, “can we go away from here?” in his ear.
Kristin​: This is like a bummer. I don’t know why they did this to us and Percy, I
mean I guess they had to give us somebody who knew Willow in high school so that
that person could bring up all of her insecurities about her former self, and also all
of her insecurities about losing Oz in the first place. Like, Willow has a lot of shit
going on with her, like, nerd self, and then what a woman should be to a man or a
person. You know what I mean? She just feels a lot like — this nerd thing is not just
about being a nerd for her, it stirs up all of the like, “why did Oz leave me? Why did
Oz love Veruca?” like, you know, all this shit comes up for her.
But I'm like really bummed because I loved Percy and I loved the relationship that
Percy and Willow had. I thought it was really, really sweet and nice and I really am
bummed to see it take a turn like this. And I just look at Percy and I look at this
fucking girl who's a fucking asshole. And I'm like, dude, what are you doing? Like,
what are you doing?
Jenny​: Well, he likes his women hot apparently, call him old fashioned. Ew!
Kristin​: You know what I'll call him, I'll call him by the name of a certain jingle
written for this exact reason.
[THE PATRIARCHY jingle plays]
The patriarchy! [thunder clap, evil laughter]
Kristin​: Speaking of the patriarchy, Jenny, before we even get to Percy, I noticed
something that I haven't noticed on my previous watches before. We get to the
party and the camera sort of like pans, and in the pan there's this dude and a girl
up against a pole and they’re — at first it just like appears like, oh, they're making
out, right? It's just like kids making out at a party. But when you look at them, it's
actually, the dude is kind of like, making out on her and she's just looking off into
space. She's so —
Jenny​: [Laughs] Gosh!
Kristin​: She's so bored. She's just like, uhhhh —
Jenny​: She’s outside of her body looking down, like when will this be over?


Kristin​: [Laughs] She’s just fucking over it. So I don't know if that was like a
direction or if that girl just decided to fucking go for it. But whoever you are, extra,
I love you and thank you for that. It made me feel very amused.
Jenny​: Speaking of stuff that's going on at this party, we get a look at this guy
who's making drinks, and he is not wearing a shirt, he’s by himself in a room calling
over his shoulder, but no-one is anywhere near the door or anything. Who is he
talking to when he says, “oh, you guys serious about naked limbo? I’m in!”
Kristin​: [Laughs]
Jenny​: That guy just like made that — he was like, “maybe um, if I say something
like this, somebody will come talk to me. Maybe this will be a good conversation
starter if I just scream out into the void about naked limbo.”
Kristin​: Yeah. But instead we get this beautiful shot — a reveal of — I mean this is
basically a segment at this point — more manicured monster nails—
Jenny​: [Laughs]
Kristin​: Just like, every fucking monster has the most beautiful nails and I know
that so many of you have talents so, you know, if you have some extra time,
maybe you're going to go home for the holidays or whatever, and you're going to
be like, “oh I don't want to be around my family, what should I do?” What you
should do is you should go back and you should grab all of the manicures that
we've seen so far on the monsters for me because I just think that they make a
beautiful — I think it would make a beautiful set for us to see.
Jenny​: Oh my God, yeah!
Kristin​: This monster has the most beautiful shade of pink. He really looked at his
complexion. He was like, “you know, green, what's a great — what color should I go
for that could really make the green pop?” And he thought pink and he was right.
Like, he knows what the fuck is up. So congratulations. What did you call them?
Hedgehog monsters?
Jenny​: Porcupine demons.
Kristin​: Porcupine demons. Yeah. I think they did a great job. And so then he uses
those nails perhaps to murder and drain the man who was gonna play limbo and
that's a life lesson right there you know —


Jenny​: Later, Willow’s like, “I found the guy and he was propped up”. Was that guy
propped up?
Kristin​: He was not, no.
Jenny​: I feel like he was just laying in bed.
Kristin​: He was not not propped up, Jenny, and I wrote down —
Jenny​: What is this episode?! What is this episode? It's like they had three plots
from three other episodes, that they tried to cobble together into one episode after
the fact.
Kristin​: [Laughs] Yeah. I don't know, but I really thought the same thing. I was
like, oh that dude wasn't propped up. I mean, he did look drained of blood, but he
certainly wasn't propped up. Uh, I dunno, I dunno. But uh —
Jenny​: Too many holes, too many holes, I say!
Kristin​: Yes. I want to talk really briefly, because we don't have Kate in this
episode, about a couple of fashion things. Obviously we're going to get to Spike,
but before Spike, Willow's wearing a really nice coat that actually reminds me a lot
of Oz’s coat earlier in either this season or, yeah, I guess it was earlier in the
season. It’s fur on the inside and you know, it was a classic nineties coat —
Jenny​: Oh, she probably got it to remind her of Oz.
Kristin​: Probably. And underneath her coat, Jenny, she's wearing a “Bunny's Dog
Walking” t shirt —
Jenny​: What the fuck?!
Kristin​: But it's like, really — I don't know why I remember this shirt, like I
remember seeing it, you know? it just really —
Jenny​: Really?
Kristin​: Yeah it sticks out for me and I've considered maybe, just maybe, in our
exclusive merch level for Patrons we can offer — this is one of the choices for this
time around. Maybe we offer them the same shirt that Willow was wearing —
“Bunny's Dog Walking”. Like a deep dig. I'm just saying, I'm thinking out loud. This
isn't the place for business brainstorming.


Jenny​: Sure, sure, sure, sure, sure. But I'm happy to hear that you're having
thoughts.
Kristin​: Also, before we leave this scene and get to Spike and all of his glory. I just
want to say, what the fuck is Willow doing? Laying down in the bed of someone
else, in the dark, at a party?!
Jenny​: Dude, I noticed that too. Like, what? Party nap?!
Kristin​: Just go home! You go home, you don't —
Jenny​: Just go home! ‘Cause she's waiting for Buffy. But like what, Buffy gets
there and then what, Buffy is going to check the bedrooms? No!
Kristin​: Right? It's odd, but you know what, let's not get too tangled in the weird
writing things that happened and move right along to something great that
happens. And the setup of this scene is phenomenal. Right? Fucking Xander comes
down and Spike, in the spookiest voice is like — what does he say? Like, “don't look
—
Jenny​: “Don't turn around” or like —
Kristin​: Don’t turn around. [Sings] Don't turn around, ‘cause you’re gonna see
my…” I remember that song?
Jenny​: Of course I do!
Kristin​: [Laughs] He's basically like, “don't turn around” and you're like, oh my
God, you know what's going on? There's a monster! Something horrible has
happened —
Jenny​: Has Spike become a porcupine demon?
Kristin​: Right. But no, the horrible thing that's happened is Spike did the laundry
and he [high-pitched] shrunk all his clothes and now he's wearing Xander's fucking
shorts and like —
Jenny​: Dude! Dude! Dude!
Kristin​: [Laughs] I feel like he could have found a better outfit —
Jenny​: He could have, but I feel like it's all part of the thing to make him look as
ridiculous as possible because he's so pale and his hair is so light. He's like, fucking,


Phoebe Bridgers up in this piece, and he's got like a light pale Hawaiian shirt and a
super light khaki short pants, which later you can see when they're walking around
outside. He's also wearing his engineer boots with them, which come up really far.
The shorts come down really, really low, and he just looks so fucking goofy.
Kristin​: So goofy! And I would like to — in complete dissonance with this image of
Spike — give Spike a little bit of a feeling of pride and play his jingle for him.
[SPIKE jingle plays]
Spike! I love you
Spike! So dreamy
Spike! Your trench coat
Spike! I love you
Spike! Your black nails
Spike! Peroxide
Kristin​: Ah, Spike. Remember when you were cool and we wrote you that jingle?
now what's happened to you? [Laughs]
Jenny​: Well, a Spike in not Spike’s clothing is still a Spike.
Kristin​: That's true. Xander delivers, again, this whole monologue and he says a
phrase that I personally enjoy, which is — he refers to Spike's “shiny white bottom”
[Both laugh]
Kristin​: Personally —
Jenny​: Wait, is that his sexual tension thing, or no?
Kristin​: [Laughs, high pitched] I don't know! I don’t know. When we get there we
can decide. But to me it just really tickled me, like it really — you know, Spike is
being undone, his coolness is being undone at every turn. His clothing, his “shiny
white bottom” being referred to by Xander. And Spike, actually, I'm laughing but
Spike gets real sad now. He really does feel sad about what Xander says him. He
does feel like he's kind of lost his purpose in life and that's, this is real now. Spike is
bummed and Spike doesn't even want to live anymore.
Jenny​: Spike!
Kristin​: Spike! I know, I know. And we'll get there. But first [laughs, high pitched]
first, Jenny we go back to the college lobby where the party is, of course, ending as
every party does in Sunnydale, with the coroner —


Jenny​: With a dead body and an ambulance and a coroner, sure.
Kristin​: The fucking coroner. Please, somebody let me know. I really don't think
that a coroner wears a gigantic back patch that says only the word coroner on it —
Jenny​: The coroner!
Kristin​: I could be wrong, but I thought —
Jenny​: You know, that might be a thing. I'm riffling through —
Kristin​: Riffling?!
Jenny​: My memory of television procedurals. And I feel like they're always wearing
shirts that say “police” and “FBI”. So maybe the coroner is just like, “I want to fit
in”.
Kristin​: I guess. Yeah.
Jenny​: And not be misidentified.
Kristin​: When I said that I actually thought of the last scene in the first season of
Weeds, I think — spoilers for the first season of weeds — where she puts on the
jacket or the robe? Is it a robe?
Jenny​: It’s a jacket, I think. And it says DEA on the back —
Kristin​: DEA in giant letters. So I don't know, maybe people —
Jenny​: But that's a thing.
Both​: Yeah.
Kristin​: So who knows? Maybe the coroner really just needs you to know he's the
fucking coroner. It seems kind of morbid to me, but whatever.
Jenny​: He takes pride in his work.
Kristin​: And we get more, of course, of this Willow — we see this peppered
throughout — of Willow sort of being like, “you know, this dude died and all of his
blood was drained. It was really traumatic for me, I woke up right next to him, but
also Percy fucking called me a nerd”.


Jenny​: [Laughs]
Kristin​: Which is like, you know, it's funny in its set up, but I think it's very
meaningful for the reasons that I talked about before. This really has affected
Willow and she's carrying it with her very deeply.
Jenny​: Yeah. Mm hmm, mm hmm.
Kristin​: [Sings] Time for some balls, Jenny, time for some balls.
Jenny​: Dude, a little bedroom basketball?
Kristin​: Oh man, this fucking poster —
Jenny​: Is this a foreplay?
Kristin​: Is it what, foreplay? Yeah, definitely. Listen, later when fucking Graham
gets hit in the fucking head with the ball when he walks in the door. His entire
attitude is like, “can you two stop fucking making out somebody fucking died.
You're always making out”. He's so over it. But I think — is this the first time that
we've seen the balls poster? I feel like it is? And it's really important to me that we
all take a moment for how this became — first of all, this is like for real, right? This
is also really funny, like all the references to, you know... I can't even think of his
name. Riley! All of the references to Riley not being good at basketball or whatever.
Marc Blucas played fucking basketball for Wake Forest and it is like a fucking
basketball player. He's real good at palming more than just Buffy’s tiny body.
Jenny​: Ew. Yeah, but he can dunk on that too.
Kristin​: Wow. Yeah. We had some of you really into the dunking fan fiction. Asking
us to please locate some of that for you. I have not done a deep dive, but, you
know, I'm sure it's out there. If it wasn't already out there, I'm sure it is now being
crafted for you. So anyway, right. Forrest is just like, [imitation of Forrest being
annoying] “Buffy, uh, all you talk about is Buffy, because kiss me, Riley” —
Jenny​: Oh my God.
Kristin​: These two, you know, just saying.
Jenny​: Oh yeah, yeah, it's a bad scene. Bad scene. Resentment’s building up,
jealousy.


Kristin​: Right, right. And so whatever, somebody died, so they're like, “uh, fucking
ten four or lilac blah blah blah.” We don't get to lilac ‘til later, but they get all in
their military mode. And then this is where the dichotomy we were talking about
before is set up, right? We go to Giles and they're doing their thing their way. Yeah.
And this is really fun. I'm going to just take us in with a sound clip here.
[Clip from episode plays]
Giles​: It’s the end of the world.
All​: Again?!
Kristin​: So I just wanted to play that ‘cause it's just very tongue in cheek, the
whole series. Like goddamn it, the fucking world is always ending, right?. We're in
Season 4 now, so we've seen it happen enough for them to make a joke of it. And I
think it will continue to be a joke as the series goes on that they're just like, “Jesus
Christ with the fucking apocalypse.”
Jenny​: [Laughs]
Kristin​: Giles has such a fucking attitude in this scene. He's just fucking, you know,
“take it seriously” and like, “blah, blah blah blah blah”. And like, “the world is
ending, the world is ending.” It's just very, very intense, coming from Giles. Gile's
has a lot of odd Giles energy in this episode, actually, I noticed.
Jenny​: Yeah, it's kind of all over the place, right?
Kristin​: Yeah. He doesn't see —
Jenny​: It's almost as if three people wrote three different episodes.
Kristin​: [Laughs]. And of course we get to the end of the scene and this is really
important for you, Jenny, because you have talked at length about your frustration
with the choice of the crossbow. And so we get to the end of the scene and
everybody's like, “well, what are you going to do?” And fucking Buffy’s like, “I'll
stop it.” You know? And it's kind of weird, but she grabs the crossbow and I believe
in the next scene we see her enter into the fucking crypt or whatever with the
crossbow.
And now your whole point, Jenny, is proven in this scene, right? She fucking shoots
the crossbow, the thing bounces off the guy, she's got nothing left, she just throws
the whole crossbow at him because —


Jenny​: See, and that's just wasteful. I'm just deeply offended by this whole
situation, this ongoing mess.
[Ad music starts]
[Ad segment]
Kristin​: Today’s episode is brought to you by Nations Photo Lab. Your photos don’t
belong on your phone! Create something memorable with a Buzz Book, a new
soft-cover photo book by Nations Photo Lab. Nations Photo Lab is built by
photographers for photographers, to turn your images into memorable works of art.
You can create your first Buzz Book for free by going to
nationsphotolab.com/buzzbooks and using the code ‘Buffy’.
You can capture that time you had an earthquake party, or the moment you
realized you couldn’t hurt humans but you could fight demons. Or even that time
you woke up in bed next to that college dude who had all of his blood drained! Each
Buzz Book is printed on professional quality Mohawk matte paper, with a cover that
is soft to the touch. Choose from one of their professionally designed covers, or
create your own and fill the pages with 40 of your favourite photos.
With Buzz Books, it’s that easy to relive all of your favourite moments. Whether
you’re shopping for your grandparents, your parents, your ensouled ex lovers or
your new witchy gal pal, Buzz Books are a gift that definitely won’t be regifted.
Head on over to nationsphotolab.com/buzzbooks and use code ‘Buffy’ for your free
Buzz Book. I just wanna make sure you all heard that,
nationsphotolab.com/buzzbooks, enter code ‘Buffy’, you get a free Buzz Book! You
can make your own book of photos for free! Why would you not do that?! Cool!
Jenny​: Today’s episode is also brought to you by Hello Fresh. As your family’s
getting back into the swing of school schedules, let Hello Fresh take the guesswork
out of meals week after week. With three plans to choose from: classic, veggie and
family, Hello Fresh’s meal kits make dinner easy, even amidst the after school
chaos.
No more having to plan, spend money on takeout, or worry about gathering
ingredients week after week, when we all know you’re at the cemetery until about
two in the morning performing your sacred duty. The easy to follow recipes and
pre-measured ingredients are all delivered right to your door in recyclable,
insulated packaging and there’s even one-pot recipes for maximum flavour, with
minimal clean up. So you get back that time to do more of what you love, like
digging through 19th century literature in the UC Sunnydale library, for example.


I love using Hello Fresh, it’s so easy, so convenient, the food is delicious, especially
the apricot chicken. For a total of $60s off, that’s $20 off your first three boxes,
visit hellofresh.com/buffering60 and enter code ‘Buffering60’. It’s like receiving 6
meals free when you go to hellofresh.com/buffering60 and enter code ‘Buffering60’.
Kristin​: Today’s episode is also brought to you by Pretty Litter. If you’ve ever
thought about getting a cat, which you have, how could you not have?! But you
can’t get past the gross litter box, you gotta check out Pretty Litter. Pretty Litter is
cat litter 2.0. It comes shipped right to your door in a small, lightweight bag that
lasts the entire month. That means no inconvenient trips to the pet store or
cramming oversized bags of litter in the closet.
Pretty Litter has next-level odour protection instead of using clay or compost that
clumps and is impossible to clean up. Pretty Litter has super absorbent crystals that
trap and conceal odour and moisture. No smell, no mess. But the coolest thing
about Pretty Litter is that it monitors your cat’s health. It changes colours to detect
underlying illnesses before urgent medical care is needed. Saving you money,
stress and potentially your cat’s life.
Sam loves Pretty Litter and Sam doesn’t just love anything, you know? I also think
that the health detection element is really incredible and can just make the most
worried of us cat owners rest a little easier knowing that our cat’s health is being
monitored. Try Pretty Litter today by visiting prettylitter.com and use promo code
‘Buffy’ for 20% off your first order. That’s prettylitter.com, promo code ‘Buffy’ for
20% off.
[Ad music stops]
[Episode resumes]
Jenny​: And after that demon gives her a thrashing and runs off into the night. Oh
well hey! It's Riley! Riley is at the cemetery. We find out in short order that his code
name is Lilac One and Buffy is like, “Lilac?!”.
Kristin​: [Laughs] Yeah. Rude Buffy lilac is a perfectly fine color for a gentleman.
Jenny​: And a beautiful flower, it smells great.
Kristin​: Riley is very impressed with what he calls “the flippy thing”, which is the
jump that we see so many of our talented stunt people do throughout the series —
Jenny​: [Laughs] The flippy thing!


Kristin​: Also just a note to the stunt work in this scene because the slam of Buffy
over the headstone before Riley arrives is very intense and I don't understand how
anybody can do that.
Jenny​: Hurt to watch, hurt to watch.
Kristin​: It did hurt to watch. And this is like, I don't know, fucking Riley's getting a
little puffed up here, but it doesn't get to the point where the jingle happens just
yet. But he's like, “don't sweat it, we'll bag it” you know? He does have the line,
Jenny, “what you dated me before?” and that's kind of what you've been saying all
season as well.
Jenny​: Yeah. He's like, “well, you dated the white and dark chocolate version of
me, but you haven't had the butterscotch, therefore, flavors as yet untested” and
so on and so on. So I'm getting the sense that you hate everything Riley has to
say, and I want to say​ ​—
Kristin​: No, no. I actually wrote an erotic novel in this scene because —
Jenny​: Oh, how does it go?
Kristin​: Oh, it goes —thank you for asking, thank you. My erotic novel goes: “I can
feel my skin humming, my hands, my every inch of me.” That's, yeah, that’s the
whole poem.
Jenny​: It's just not the same when it's Riley. You know what I mean? I think the
only erotic novels worth writing and reading from this show are between Faith and
Buffy.
Kristin​: I agree. I agree with you. But it was just like really sexual. It was just
very, very sexual and very vulnerable on Riley's behalf. I think so. I was actually —
I got a little annoyed with Riley in this scene, but I was kind of here for him being
like, “I can literally feel you like vibrating my skin.” Like hell yeah!
Jenny​: I was poet laureate, special agent Riley Finn. I find what he has to say for
himself very compelling. He's not being — I think my read on this situation is that
he's not being a jerk. He's just being like, “I'm going to fucking lay everything out
and tell you exactly how I feel and tell you how important this is to me and how
real it feels and how like incredible and dah dah, dah, dah, dah. And like all I can do
is tell you that. But I'm not going to not take every shot that I have to make this
happen because I feel that strongly about its potential.”


Kristin​: Yeah. I can get behind that in this exchange, not in the next exchange.
And we'll get there shortly. But in this exchange, I am there for it. I do think that
Buffy brings up a point that will play in that next exchange that we're going to talk
about where she says like, “pain, death, apocalypse. You can't understand it.”
Right? Like he can't understand it. And that's the thing that is like a touchstone for
me and why I get so frustrated with Riley and men in the scene that we'll talk about
soon. But in this scene, I'm with you. I agree.
I think that he really, really loves her. Well, love is — maybe I'm getting ahead of
myself, but he really, really likes her. He feels very strong feelings for her and he's
definitely just trying his hardest to lay it all out on the table. So I agree with you,
Jenny.
Jenny​: And listen, Buffy for her part — I mean, okay, you went to high school on a
hellmouth. Okay. Shit's been really intense. Okay.
Kristin​: Wow. Jenny, Wow, you're upsetting me as much as Riley right now. Wow.
This is a whole different take on the WWow. Wow. Wow.” That's Kristin's annoyed
version —
Jenny​: How the other “wow” lives.
Kristin​: Let's wait until we get to the next scene between the two of them before
we get into this, ‘cause it sounds like we might have a fucking throw down here.
Jenny​: Alright. Meanwhile, mmm, blood of a man, mmm,bones of a child, mmm
Word of Valios, delicious!
Kristin​: Yes. And the Word of Valios —​ ​Giles has — there's a pan in on Giles and
he's like [Kristin pretends to be Giles thinking] “hmmmm” —
Both​: [Laugh]
Kristin​: Which will of course come clear later when he then finally remembers that
he has this fucking thing in his house. Xander has a line that I just want to give a
small shoutout to where they are looking at the monster in the book and Xander
says, “I second that revulsion” —
Jenny​: Ha! Pretty good.
Kristin​: Which I believe is a play on, “I second that emotion” and I thought it was
smart. And then we go to Xander's house and Willow and Xander walk in on Spike
—


Jenny​: “Goodbye drip, see you in hell.”
Kristin​: “Goodbye Dru.” I love it that he, you know —
Jenny​: No, he says “goodbye drip.”
Kristin​: Oh, he does?! I thought he said, “goodbye Dru”!
Jenny​: “Goodbye drip, see you in hell.”
Kristin​: Wow.
Jenny​: Am I way off? I'm pretty sure that’s what he said.
Kristin​: I don't know. I'm not going to even go back and check. I'm going to let
everybody get all riled up in their cars and on their headphones with whichever one
of us is right. But I really thought he said “goodbye Dru” and then tossed himself on
this stake, which is not set up very well at all. It's not going to support the body
weight of a vamp. And so everything clatters to the ground and they see this. And
of course, you know, Willow — this is a very Xander, Willow response. Xander's like,
“come on man, I would have done it for ya.” Like, “I’m over your shit. I've been
over your shit forever and I can't stand it.”
And Willow has a soft spot for Spike and for just anyone ‘cause she's Willow. And
she's sort of like, “no, he's hurting and we can't be mean to him in this dark time.”
[Laughs] And this amazing moment happens where Spike is like, “am I even
remotely scary anymore?” And he does this “grrr” motion.
Jenny​: Oh my God, it's painful.
Kristin​: [Laugh] It’s really embarrassing. But they take him with them on their
mission, which is like, you know — Spike's been sort of bordering Scoobyville as
we've moved into this season because he's been rendered harmless to humans.
And think this is a big moment for their coming together as a Scooby — as Spike
as maybe a Scooby. I'm just putting it out there —
Jenny​: Yeah, Spike might be part of the gang.
Kristin​: Yeah, we're seeing some friendship happen. And then there's this really
sweet line as they leave together as a trio where Xander's like, “hey, you know, if it
makes you feel any better, it might be the apocalypse” and Spike’s like, “oh man,
you’re not just saying that?”


Jenny​: [Laughs] He just wants to die. He just wants to be put out of his Hawaiian
shirt misery.
Kristin​: I know. It’s very sweet though. Okay. So here we are on fucking — what's
the main street in Sunnydale called? I always call it Main Street —
Jenny​: State Street!
Kristin​: State Street! And this is where Jenny and I — I mean this could be the end
of the podcast right here based on the way that you spoke about Buffy earlier.
Jenny​: [Laughs]
Kristin​: Riley has a stupid beepy thing that's fucking picking up traces —
Jenny​: A stupid beepy thing? A useful tool?
Kristin​: I mean, it's just silly. That wasn't a dig at Riley, it was a dig in general at
this show for being like, “I know what he should have, a thing that beeps and finds
monsters.”
Jenny​: Less pheromone traces.
Kristin​: Right. Riley's like, “this whole thing is stupid, you're stupid.” And then he's
like, “I didn't mean it, but also I kinda did mean it, you're being stupid.” Now I will
have a little bit of room for this as an extension of the previous scene. Right? But
then he goes and he's like, “you know, Buffy, you have this doom and gloom
mentality, and if you just change your mentality on things, everything would be a
lot different.” And like, yo dude, you don't even fucking know her. It's not like
Riley's been around since fucking Season One and he's assessing the situation.
He hits some points on the head, but he doesn't hit all of them on the head. I think
this is really fucked up because Buffy, apparently, this doesn't mean anything to
you, Jenny. But Buffy went to fucking high school on the fucking hellmouth she has
died and come back to life. Her life is in peril all the time. She is sent the most
beloved person to her on the face of this earth to hell. She has been through a lot
of shit and Riley doesn't know fucking any of it. And he's fucking coming up to her
being like, “you know what you need Buffy. You need to fucking cheer up and be
positive.” And to that I fucking say, go the fuck away, Riley.
[GO AWAY RILEY jingle plays]
Riley, you are kind of like cardboard


Your mansplaining's best to be ignored
No one cares, you're our TA so please
Please go away
Kristin​: Okay, Jenny. What do you have to say? [Laughs]
Jenny​: Well, I think that, um, [clears throat] maybe tonally there's some room for
improvement, but we're talking about people who are 18, 19, 20 years old. So,
everybody is still figuring their shit out.
Kristin​: Oh, so just like, kids will be kids, boys will be boys argument coming from
Jenny. Is that what you're saying?
Jenny​: No, maybe I'll just say what I have to say and just relax. I think that Buffy
and Riley have very different natures and they have very different experiences and
I think that they both have a lot to offer each other. And I think that Buffy could
occasionally stand to lighten up. Buffy is very serious. She's very mission-driven.
She's been through a lot. I'm not saying that she doesn't have a reason to be
serious and mission-driven and, you know, very fatalistic at times.
But, I would also say that I think she stands to benefit from the presence of
someone in her life who can offer her some levity to counterbalance the darkness
that she is constantly engaged with.
Kristin​: Well, and I agree with that. I'm not saying that having someone near to
her who is able to bring some levity to the situation would not be helpful for Buffy. I
just think it's very inappropriate how he's saying what he does and does not know
about her, when he doesn't know much about her at all. And she is mission-driven
and she can be dark and what have you. But I really think that she's doing her
fucking best. And when you think about the things that she carries every day, like
she's doing okay!
And that isn't to say — I'm not disapproving your point, Jenny. I agree. I think that
there are ways in which Riley, or someone like Riley, or someone with levity could
be good. It's like when Faith was around, there were parts of that that were good
for her.
Jenny​: Oh hell yeah, there were parts of it that were good for her.
Kristin​: Okay. But, that doesn't mean that you get a pass at not knowing her and
saying this shit to her, you know, you know who could've said —
Jenny​: So, what did he say that is like the most offensive to you?


Kristin​: I think —​ ​he said two things. Well really the doom and gloom mentality bit
pissed me off more than anything else. But then when he calls her self-involved,
and it's not that — we've talked about the fact that Buffy can be self-involved, but
it's not the things that he's saying. It's the fact that he is saying them and we have
seen how much he knows of her and I feel it's very out of line.
If this scene were happening between Faith and Buffy at the end of Season fucking
Three, I would be here for it. You know? I would be fucking here for it because
Faith really knew —
Jenny​: Because it would end in finger-banging?
Kristin​: Because it would end in finger-banging, and also because Faith knew her.
Faith had spent a lot of time — they knew each other very well. Riley does not
fucking know what she has been through. He doesn't know anything about her
fucking life. I'm not going to yell again cause I already yelled to get the jingle here
but I'm not — I don't feel okay about it. I don't feel okay about it at all. I will
though —
Jenny​: Well you said that Buffy is doing the best that she can and I would say back
to that that Riley is doing the best that he can with what Buffy has been able to
share with him up to this point.
Kristin​: [Shouts] No! No! No!
Jenny​: Buffy is also very closed off and she has been resistant because she felt like
she had to be.
Kristin​: Then ask questions!
Jenny​: They've only just opened the doors to each other's secret lives.
Kristin​: He is making declarative statements. He could be asking questions. That's
all I'm saying. He could be asking her about her shit before he decides who she is.
Now I'm going to say a nice thing about Riley so that we don't just fight, you know
— everybody's upset, mom and dad are fighting. [Laughs] So let's come together, I
think, on something that Riley says that I find very powerful and evocative and
important, which is — he says to her, “things fall apart, evil comes and goes. But
people pull each other through.” Right? And this I think is really brilliant of Riley to
say, like, this is a really good point and I just want to like — you know, I don't
know. How do you feel about that thing that Riley said, Jenny, do you like it?


Jenny​: I love it. I feel great about it. And I think that it is maybe where he's been
getting this whole time is to this moment of eloquence because Buffy is being a real
isolationist, you know?
Kristin​: Yes, she is. And I agree with you, and he can't know that — see this is I
think why I get so fired up about it — he can't know that he did that he doesn't
understand. Right? Like there's no —
Jenny​: Well, you know what Riley's problem might be?
Kristin​: What?
Jenny​: It's possible that one writer wrote this scene and didn't converse with the
other two writers and found what has happened before this point.
Kristin​: No, no, no, no. ‘Cause we've seen this about Riley before, right? Riley has
a really hard time — and I'm being gentle with him right now — but Riley has a
hard time understanding that there's more than he can understand. And that's the
thing that I think stirs up feelings in me as a woman, who has been spoken to —
Jenny​: Wait, are you a woman? Are you a queer woman?
Kristin​: I am a queer, cisgender woman and I've had many experiences in my life,
some with people like my own father who have, thought that they could understand
the experience that I have lived through as a woman when they cannot. Right? And
so this is obviously not situated in a man/woman way — I mean it is because it's a
man and a woman — but also there's a Slayer and not a Slayer. And I'm just saying
that I think that in general in the world, if men would ask women more questions
about their experience before declaring what they think about the way they're
behaving, it would be more powerful. So maybe we're getting to the root of why
I'm so screamy about this, Jenny.
Jenny​: Screamy!
Kristin​: [Laughs] oh my God. Okay, so we move along to the next scene.
Jenny​: Yes.
Kristin​: So I know Spike’s still wearing the same outfit, but I still wrote “Spike’s
fucking outfit”, I must've been delighted by it all over again in the scene.
Jenny​: Well out in the moonlight, it really takes on an even more bone white glow.


Kristin​: It does, it does. And they have this fight where Spike is pulling — just
picking out old scabs at this point. We've seen this shit before. Right? Telling the
Scoobies that they don't matter, that they're not helping, that Buffy is the only one
that matters. It's a sensitive sore spot.
Jenny​: Do you think that he's trying to get them to stake him —
Kristin​: No.
Jenny​: Or do you think — ‘cause the way that he walks away and smiles — do you
think it feels like a sliver of his former sense of purpose because he was mean to
somebody.
Kristin​: Yes, yes. That's exactly what I thought. I did not think he was trying to get
staked. I thought he was just like, “if I can't punch them with my fists, I can punch
him with my words.” Yeah, totally. And then we cut to Giles, who has a great line —
Jenny​: Putting it together.
Kristin​: A great line. “Oh, as usual, dear.” [Laughs]
Jenny​: [Laughs] Yeah. This was a good Giles moment.
Kristin​: Right. And we get three on one for poor Giles. He's so fucked up. When we
see the aftermath of this fight, the porcupine demons have —
Jenny​: Well that's what you get when you keep the talisman in your talisman chest
with all your other talismans.
Kristin​: Jenny, he bought it at a sorcerer's estate sale.
Both​: [Laugh]
Kristin​: Oh God. Just fucking Giles being on mysticestatesales.net and going on a
Sunday, you know?
Jenny​: Yeah, totally.
Kristin​: We learned that they're going to open —
Jenny​: Aww, that’s what he and Jenny Calendar probably used to do together.
Kristin​: Oh, that's even more sad than what I thought, which was, oh, I wonder if
him and Olivia went to the sorcerer’s estate sales together.


Jenny​: Oh my God.
Kristin​: Why do we have to make going an estate sale a thing that romantic people
do together? but it feels like that's true. And then, you know, they're going to open
the hellmouth.
Jenny​: Uh, classic.
Kristin​: And so that means he's got to go back to Sunnydale High School.
Jenny​: “We’re going back to high school” they say as they put their sunglasses
down on the bridge of their nose and take a drag of their cigarette and then throw
it, one drag smoked onto the ground and then crush it with the tip of their engineer
boot.
Kristin​: [Laughs] Speaking of that really cool, cool image. The really cool, cool
Spike really has a bone to pick with Xander's choice of saying “let's rock and roll.”
Jenny​: Love it!
Kristin​: I do love who's ever decision it was to put Mayor meat and snakeskin all
over the set.
Jenny​: Everywhere! So gross!
Kristin​: It’s fucking everywhere, but it's really funny and I love it. Everybody loves
a call back to the last season. We love remembering that, oh yeah, there was a
snake here and he did die in this school.
Jenny​: Yep, yep yep.
Kristin​: Xander quickly realizes as he's trying to fight off a demon, and the demon
just jumps off into the crack in the hellmouth, that the demons are the sacrifice.
This is the missing piece. They think they're gonna go in and find people tied up
and ready to be sacrificed, but they don't. And it's because the demons themselves
are going to sacrifice themselves to end the world.
Jenny​: Yes. Oh God.
Kristin​: So I really think — something that bothers me about this in general is,
don't you think that they should seal up that crack in the hellmouth?


Jenny​: I mean, wouldn’t that be nice?
Kristin​: I just feel like, you know, you guys went down there, you see there's a
crack in the foundation —
Jenny​: Get some cement down there dudes.
Kristin​: Yeah, get some fucking putty, put it in the hole, seal that shit up. The
really remarkable thing that happens in this scene is that Spike just can't take it
anymore. He can't take it anymore. And he pulls back his fist and he just punches
this fucking demon even though he thinks it's going to knock him cold, you know?
And he does it and it doesn't hurt him and he is so stoked.
Jenny​: He's reborn.
[Clip from episode plays]
[Fighting noises]
Spike​: That’s right, I’m back and I’m a bloody animal!
[Fighting noises]
Kristin​: Oh wow. So —
Jenny​: [Shouts] hooray! He’s back!
Kristin​: Spike is back! Oh, he's gotten a sense of purpose, he can live and he can
fight demons. How fun. How fun.
Jenny​: Yeah, that is so great. He's all like, [puts on British accent] “I can have a de
— [resumes normal accent] I'm sorry, “I can hurt a demon.”
Both​: [Laugh]
Jenny​: And stepping back really quickly, I just wanna mention Willow with the bag
of children's bones, just like very casually “I've got the bones” and then I think they
hot potato the bag of bones between her and Xander for a second. Everyone's just
very comfortable with this bag of a child's bones.
Kristin​: [Laughs] God.


Jenny​: [Laughs] and then Spike in his new found rising from the ashes. In his
excitement of that, he throws one of the demons into the hole, which he should not
have done.
Kristin​: He's so proud. He's like, “I was helping!”
Jenny​: And then Riley shows up, [high-pitched voice] what’s up Riley?! [Laughs]
and then the last porcupine demon sneaks his manicured fingers around the word
of Valios and starts crawling to the hole, slides right into it. Buffy’s like, “I'm going
in!” Riley's like, “I'm clipping you in on this carabiner ‘cause you're coming back
out.” Then Buffy just jumps in the hole. Then Riley's feeding the rope out, which
seems like a counterintuitive —Like it didn't seem like he would need to do that.
And then it's like running through his hands and we see how fast Buffy is falling.
And I'll tell you, I recently got my belay certification, so that I can belay people at
the rock climbing gym and part of belaying —
Kristin​: Wow, wow, an expert here among us.
Jenny​: Part of belaying is lowering people and you have this belay device, which
the rope runs through, right? But you're feeding it with your hands. Your hands
control the speed at which the rope can pass through the belay device. And just
lowering somebody down like pretty slowly, the belay device gets really, really hot
where the rope passes through. So this is a much thinner rope, moving much
faster. I don't understand how Riley is able to even have that on his hands or why
he would want to, because it's gotta be hot and burny.
Kristin​: Yeah. I am not certified to belay Jenny, but I wrote down “that tiny chord
on Riley's hand would cut it in half.” Now I don't mean to get all fucking hellmathy
up in here, but it's pretty basic math here to say if a human being is falling at the
speed at which she's falling and you put your hand on a skinny little fucking chord,
it’s going to slice you right open.
Jenny​: Yeah. It doesn't seem good.
Both​: It doesn't seem good.
Jenny​: But glad he survived for whatever reason.
Kristin​: Right. Then, of course, they pull — she pulls him out, which also seems
like — I know she's the Slayer, but this lift out seems very —
Jenny​: That just goes very fast and she's carrying a whole other guy.


Kristin​: Yeah. With one hand and pulls him out and whatever. But they save the
world, so thank goodness and they're walking out, Buffy and Riley, and, of course,
Willow and Xander and Spike are all there. And Riley is, you know — Riley must be
in the fucking credits now because he has also lost any ability to tell a good lie.
Jenny​: Yeah, yeah. [Laughs]
Kristin​: [Imitates Riley] “I was just passing by and a…” —
Jenny​: [Imitates Riley] “Ah, hmm, paintball, oh, hello. What are the odds? Wow.”
Kristin​: [Laughs] And there's a moment — I know we've played a few sound clips,
it’s sound clip heavy, but there's just, you know, it's not a great episode, but
there's some great sound clips. Because then in the middle of this like, obviously
him being found out, he looks at Spike and he's like, don't I know you? To which
Spike does my favorite accent of all of Spike's accents, his American accent and
says —
Jenny​: Oh my God.
[Clip from episode plays]
Spike​: [Imitating an American accent] Me? No. No, sir. I’m just an old pal of
Xander’s here.
Kristin​: Oh, thank you.
Jenny​: This is great because James Marsters, of course, is American doing a British
accent, which does —if you watch an episode from an early season of Spike and a
later season of Spike, the accent definitely develops and changes over time. But
he's an American doing an English accent and then doing an American accent as an
English person. It's just really great. Super hard “Rs”, it's like really, really funny. A
plus.
Kristin​: [Imitates Spike’s American accent] “Xander”
Jenny​: Then they're leaving and Xander and Willow have this exchange like, “wow,
it's weird being back. Everything seems so small.” Guys, you were there like five
months ago. When you, when you talk about stuff being small, it's like you go visit
your elementary school or whatever. It's not like — you're already adult-sized when
you're in high school.


Kristin​: I thought that this might be a play on —​ ‘​cause she says everything is so
small and charred, so I thought it might've been a joke about how everything is like
shrunken cause it's burned. But also, I don't know. Maybe? I dunno.
Jenny​: I don't think so.
Kristin​: So we go back to Riley's. And first of all, I want to say that in this series,
Angel has lived in places that are made of entirely glass, right? And Angel can't be
hit by sunlight and he just lives amongst all of the windows, glass ceilings, the
whole nine. And now we have Riley, who is a human totally fine with sunlight. His
windows are the size of thumbnails. They're just these tiny little windows up at the
top of the ceiling. And I'm just saying, it seems like perhaps Angel and Riley, you
should talk to each other. Swaps pads, you know.
Jenny​: Swap spots. Sure, sure. It seems safer.
Kristin​: Riley's all, “it's the end of the world” and Buffy’s all, “I know how to do this
role play. No, it’s not.”
Both​: [Laugh]
Jenny​: And then the kissing, and I would rank Sarah Michelle Gellar and Marc
Blucas kissing as like C minus material. At least this time, it's not great. They're
figuring their shit out.
Kristin​: And with that mediocre kissing, Jenny, why don't we roll right into the
Sexual Tension Awards.
Jenny​: Oh, hell yeah.
[SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays]
Sexual tension award!
Jenny​: Well, welcome back to the Sexual Tension Awards. Of course, for Season 4,
Episode 11, Doomed. Here are your nominees for your voting pleasure. Up first
we've got two sexy commandos in their military fatigues. Always sweaty. Always
playing bedroom basketball, if you know what I mean. It's Riley and Forrest.
Second of all we've got —​ ​wow, reunited and it feels so good — Spike and kicking
ass.
Kristin​: [Laughs]Yes. My vote goes with Spike and kicking ass. Am I not allowed to
tell them that?


Jenny​: No, you're absolutely —I encourage you to influence the voters.
Kristin​: Great.
Jenny​: Then we've got up third, wow, a man and his map. It's Giles and that map
of Sunnydale with Initiative push pins all over it. Hot, hot, hot.
Kristin​: So satisfying.
Jenny​: And the pairing that perhaps we should have seen coming all along, but
we've failed to notice on the horizon, just been under our noses, what the hell?! It’s
Xander and Spike’s shiny white bottom. You’re welcome, America and the rest of
the globe.
Kristin​: I know you didn't mean to do it, but you said this was right under our
noses right before saying Spike’s shiny white bottom. So I just really feel like you
set that one up well.
Jenny​: Well, thank you. Hot, hot, hot, hot, hot.
Kristin​: Well, should I tell people the winners?
Jenny​: From Hush? Yes, please.
Kristin​: Wow. So fucking Hush. Major sexual tension. We had, sadly with only 2%
coming in 4th place is Anya and Xander. They really — they tried but they just
could not outweigh the other contenders here. Nearly tied with 12% and 13%
respectively — third place we have Olivia and Giles, they did a great job, but you
know, there was a nominee in this group that was just gonna really outshine the
rest and we all knew —
Jenny​: It couldn't be helped.
Both​: It couldn't be helped.
Kristin​: With 13% —Olivia and all of us. And, Jenny —
Jenny​: Good gravy, this is probably the most sweeping landslide victory of Sexual
Tension Award history.
Kristin​: Yes. And it makes sense when you think about where we sit thematically
as a duo.


Jenny​: Sure.
Kristin​: 73% of you voted for Tara and Willow to take it for the first time and
perhaps not the last Sexual Tension — they moved a fucking vending machine.
Let's be real everybody. We knew they were going to win!
Jenny​: Very powerful.
Kristin​: Very powerful. If you didn't already see the costume that Jenny and I wore
for Halloween you might want to check it out because we were the winner of the
Sexual Tension Award, as a matter of fact.
Jenny​: Truly.
Kristin​: Yeah. If only we had known that we could have held up an award in our
hands. Given an illustration of this one —
Jenny​: Yes, the trophies in the mail, Kristin.
Kristin​: Yes. Congratulations to you both Willow and Tara and that does it for
Sexual Tension Awards. So, should we talk about the rest of this episode? The last
little bit here?
Jenny​: The last little bit. It is very special. Xander and Willow just want to watch
TV in the basement, of course. But Spike — Spike has a — well he's just plagued by
a sense of justice and wants to battle evil very desperately because it's the only
thing he can still battle.
Kristin​: Yes. And he is looking [shouts] hot!
Jenny​: Oh my God he looks so good.
Kristin​: He is looking so hot. Spike in fucking blue jeans and a black t shirt with a
belt. Hell fucking yes!
Jenny​: [Makes chainsaw noise] as I often say.
Kristin​: As you often do. Instead of playing Spike’s jingle again, which he does
deserve, I'd like to take us out of this episode with one more sound bite of Spike
just taking out the episode.
[Clip from episode plays]


Spike​: Come on! Vampires! Grrrr, nasty! Let’s annihilate them, for justice
and for the safety of puppies and Christmas, right? Let's fight that evil. Let's
kill something. Oh, come on.
Jenny​: Well, I'm Jenny Owen Youngs and when I'm not watching Buffy and making
this podcast, I'm usually writing and recording songs. You can learn more about me
and hear some of those jams at jennyowenyoungs.com/buffering and you can
always give me a shout on Twitter @JennyOwenYoungs.
Kristin​: Yes. And I am Kristin Russo. You can find out about the work that I do with
LGBTQ communities and with their loved ones over at my website, which is
kristinnoeline.com. That's K - R - I - S - T - I - N - N - O - E - L - I - N - E. You can
also use that spelling to find me on Twitter and on Instagram where I, you know,
talk about lots of things. You can get pictures of Sam as Freddy Kru-purr from
Halloween if you want to, which I can't see why you wouldn't. And also, you know,
you can check out mykidisgay.com which is a really brilliant resource for parents
and loved ones of LGBTQ people as well as educators.
I point it out specifically because I think it's good for kind for anyone, there's stuff
on that site that will help any human learn more about queer and trans people. So
go do that, would ya?
Jenny​: Buffering The Vampire Slayer is on Twitter, Instagram, and Facebook
@BufferingCast. And you can always drop us an email at
bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin​: Yes. And you can, of course, support our work and everything that we are
doing here. You can support us in a few ways. You can go on over to our website,
bufferingthevampireslayer.com and click on “Patreon”. Join us as a Patron, you get
really fun things — Buffy watches, the advanced MP3 files of the songs so you don't
have to wait until the end of the season, bonus mailbag episodes, exclusive
merchandise, plus, it's just really fun and at any level you get to join the secret
Facebook group, which is I think one of the most beautiful communities I've ever
been witness to in my life.
Jenny​: Oh my gosh, it’s so magical.
Kristin​: It’s so magical.
Jenny​: So magical. So join us.


Kristin​: You can also go over to our website and click “shop” if you'd like to
purchase things. We are past Halloween, which means that we are officially in the
holiday season. If you want to —
Jenny​: Is that how it works?
Kristin​: Oh yeah. That's how it works. It’s Halloween then it's the holidays. So if
you want to, you know, get some gifts for your loved ones or people who you think
really need to learn about smashing the patriarchy, you can do that in our store and
all that also helps us keep on keeping on over here. Last but not least, you can go
on over to iTunes and rate and review us. You can check out Angel On Top, our
Angel podcast hosted by Brittany Ashley and Laura Zak and rate and review them
too.
Jenny​: Yeah! And ‘till next time…
Both​: Awoooooo!
[Jenny performing “Doomed” off the album “Songs from Season Five” by
Buffering The Vampire Slayer]

It’s the end of the world again
I don’t know how this keeps on happening
There’s no rest for the wicked
Even less for me and my friends
It’s the end of the world again
It’s apocalypse time again
A bad time to commit to new boyfriends
He wants a beginning
But my calling never ends
And it’s apocalypse time again
Oh what’s the point of loving
When it seems like there’s always somethin


Trying its hardest to summon
The end of times, and this burden’s mine, all mine
It’s the end of the world again
Feels like a rerun that I’m watchin
And every time, my disbelief
Gets harder to suspend
When it’s the end of the world again
Oh what’s the point of loving
When it seems like there’s always some demon
Trying its hardest to summon
The end of times, and this burden’s mine, all mine
I stopped the end of the world again
And hey nobody even wound up dead
If my heart’ll beat for another week
I can open it to him
Cause I stopped the end of the world again

