Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 3.19: Choices
[chime plays]
Jenny: Hello! Hello! Hey, hi everyone.
Kristin: Jenny’s back!
Jenny: I’m here!
Kristin: Jenny, we’ve missed you in the intro!
Jenny: It has been so tough to not be here.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Thanks for letting me come back.
Kristin: But we—I feel a little closer, we’ve both had some special bonding time,
so—
Jenny: You and them?
Kristin: Me and them, yes.
Jenny: How dare you.
Kristin: Listen, you know? When the wife one is away, the wife two will play.
Jenny: So I’m wife one?
Kristin: Yeah—
Jenny: Cool.
Kristin: Probably not. [laughs]
Jenny: How dare you!
Kristin: Probably reverse that order. Anyway—
Jenny: All right, all right, all right.


Kristin: We have some things to tell you before we jump into Choices, today’s
episode.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: Okay, first of all, prom. Prom is happening so soon! It’s like a week and a
half away! As you all know, our Buffy prom in LA sold out in three tiny little
minutes.
Jenny: Yikes.
Kristin: Yeah, so we know that there are a whole bunch of Scoobies out there who
wanna join us but couldn’t! So here are some things you should know. There are
now prom meetups, which we are calling Prom-Ups, happening in Chicago, in
Atlanta, in New York City! You can find all of the details for those over at
bufferingthevampire slayer.com/prom.
And you can also submit a Prom-Up in your own city, if you want to, over on that
link. We know many of you also want to peek in on what’s going on at the Ace
Hotel, so we have two fun things to share with you. Number one, Brittany Ashley
and Laura Zak, who host the Daria podcast Sicker Sadder World, will be running our
Instagram stories throughout the evening.
Jenny: Yay!
Kristin: Yes! So fun! You can follow us over on Instagram @bufferingcast and join
us digitally. They’re going to have a lot of fun clips so you can get little peeks at
what’s going on as the evening progresses. Also, if you are a patron of ours, we’ll
be streaming both of Jenny’s live music sets on our secret Facebook page. We don’t
want to give too much away, but there’s going to be some guests and there will be
a Kate Leth and there might be lyric sheets for a singalong of a certain
song—[Jenny laughs loudly] I don’t know, we’ll see!
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: If you want to become a patron, you can go on over to
bufferingthevampireslayer.com, just click on Patreon. So again, we’ll be streaming
the complete live sets for you over on the secret Facebook page.
Jenny: Also, if you’re in the LA area, we will be doing a free, post-prom meetup at
Griffith Park on March 11th, that’s the Sunday morning after prom, at 11:30 AM. All


of those details will be posted up on our calendar on our website, as well as up in
our Facebook events. It’ll be so nice to see you all!
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: Oh my god, in the sobering light of day! [laughs]
Kristin: Who’s bringing the bagels, am I right?
Jenny: Who is bringing the bagels? Meanwhile, Last but not least, we’ve seen a few
questions come through about the LA prom and by this weekend, we will have put
up a few FAQs for you, all on the main prom page, so check for that if you have
questions, if you want answers. Friendly reminder that this is only our first prom,
and we will be doing another next year, and probably forever more after that. Yeah.
Kristin: Hell yes! Okay. Moving along, this month, we’re raising money for the
Brown Boi Project, and we still have a couple of lyric sheets left. We’d really like to
sell these out with your help, so go on over to our website and click the Brown Boi
Project link up in the top bar. You can grab a handwritten lyric sheet from us and
you can support a super, super worthy cause.
Jenny: Speaking of worthy causes, we had a limited edition t-shirt that said “Be
the thing monsters have nightmares about” up for two weeks, designed by Kristine
Thune, with all proceeds going to benefit Time’s Up. Thanks to you, we raised
$3,631, holy hell!
Kristin: Three thousand—
Jenny: Thank you so much!
Kristin: Six hundred and thirty-one dollars!
Jenny: Fucking amazing!
Kristin: Incredible.
Jenny: You are treasures, thank you, thank you.
Kristin: Yes, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you. Also, we had
the most amazing Buffy watch together this past weekend, where we cackled and
we gasped and we sat in awe at all that is Vampire Willow in Doppelgangland. So
just wanna thank all of you who joined us for that Buffy watch.


We’re gonna be doing a mega Buffy watch of Graduation Day, both parts,
Graduation Day Parts 1 and 2, in late March, so if you’re a patron at any level, stay
tuned, and there’ll be details coming for when exactly we will be doing that. I’m
pretty stoked. Last thing, “randy for Giles” pins are back, again. [both laugh] They
keep going and we keep getting them back. We’ve had them made in soft enamel
on this round, and they look really, really awesome. The black is really nice and it
pops. It’s—you can check it out. You can see what you think.
Jenny: They look good! Not unlike Giles in Band Candy.
Kristin: [laughs] You can go to bufferingthevampireslayer.com and click on shop to
find those. And that, I believe, is all we have to say—
Jenny: Sweet heavenly Moses, let’s get into it.
Kristin: Let’s do it!
[Buffering theme plays]
Jenny: Hello! And welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast where we
are watching and discussing every episode of my favorite show, Buffy the Vampire
Slayer, one at a time in sweet, heavenly chronological order, just as the lord in
heaven intended.
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: Yeah, that’s right. Um. I forgot what happens next in the intro! [laughing]
Oh yeah, spoiler-free, we’re doing it spoiler-free. And of course, I’m Jenny Owen
Youngs.
Kristin: Yes, and of course, I’m Kristin Russo. And this week, we are talking about
Season 3, Episode 19—where has the time gone?
Jenny: Just flown right on by.
Kristin: I’m just sad about it! Just—I’m gonna blink my eye and I’ll be forty-two
and this podcast will be over!
Jenny: Forty-two?
Kristin: No, I’m—
Jenny: Oh.


Kristin: I know. You know, I was trying—
Jenny: I got lost. You’re like, “ugh, you’ll never believe how huge this number is,
so you’ll definitely know it’s a joke, forty-two.”
Kristin: [laughs] I know, I don’t know what happened! I was trying to be dramatic
but I literally will probably be forty-one. You know, like—
Jenny: Uh-huh!
Kristin: [laughs] Okay, so anyway, we’re talking about Season 3, Episode 19,
Choices. Stay tuned at the end of this podcast every week for an original song,
written by us, recapping the Buffy episode we are discussing.
Jenny: Choices was written by David Fury and directed by James A. Contner. And it
originally aired on May 4, 1999.
Kristin: May the fourth be with you!
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: In 1999.
Jenny: Yah-huh!
Kristin: This is the one where the Mayor takes Willow prisoner after Buffy and her
friends steal away a box containing demonic energy needed for Ascension Day.
“Demonic energy?”
Jenny: [simultaneously] It’s like, “demonic energy”? Is that—
Kristin: Or is it fucking huge spiders?
Jenny: Big ol’ spiders.
Kristin: Big ol’ spiders. It’s like, were they trying not to spoil the spiders? ‘Cause
they spoiled everything else.
Jenny: Literally everything else.
Kristin: Yeah, [laughs] “leave ‘em one surprise.”


Jenny: You know? Man.
Kristin: This episode is important and we’re gonna spend almost the entirety of
this episode of the podcast talking about—
Jenny: This episode of the show, but we forgot something!
Kristin: Yeah!
Jenny: In the last episode—
Kristin: We sure did.
Jenny: Which is of course—
[Sexual Tension Award theme plays]
Kristin: Yes, we forgot—
Jenny: A gross oversight.
Kristin: The sexual tension award—
Jenny: The shaaaame!
Kristin: You just used the words “gross” and “shame” right after the Sexual Tension
Award jingle, so I just want to be clear—
Jenny: Focus on the context and what I’m actually saying—
Kristin: Right, right, right.
Jenny: And not just the words that you’re associating.
Kristin: Right, right. So you told us on the internet, there was something sexually
missing or some tension [Jenny laughs] was missing, I don’t remember.
Somebody—there was a little—
Jenny: “Something sexually missing.” Yeah, you know, this is a—
Kristin: [simultaneously] Somebody, “a little bi-furious” is their name on Twitter—
Jenny: Mmm. Sure.


Kristin: Tamika Olivia. “I can’t help but feel that there was a little tension missing
from this episode.”
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: That is what the tweet alerted me. And so then we retweeted it and got
some nominees from you all, which is a fun thing that happened.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Oh! Yeah, well, who did the listeners nominate?
Kristin: Okay, so Willow and her worksheets was, you know—
Jenny: Sure. Yeah.
Kristin: Cordelia and Willow’s worksheets was nominated.
Jenny: Sure!
Kristin: Willow and the power of interrogation.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: Freddie and his ego or his desk.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: Xander and his jello.
Jenny: Mmm!
Kristin: Cordelia and her own thoughts!
Jenny: Nice!
Kristin: Yep. How about Xander and Hogan Martin? Xander’s pretty adorably
flustered when Hogan knows his name!
Jenny: That’s true!
Kristin: Giles and Wesley were nominated.
Jenny: Wow. Woooow.


Kristin: Angel and comedy for the line, “I’m a funny guy.”
Jenny: Uh-huh! Great, A-plus Angel.
Kristin: But a couple of nominees [sic] for Giles and Joyce.
Jenny: Ohhh!
Kristin: I don’t mean to stack the deck here—
Jenny: Mmm, yes.
Kristin: With the way that I read those off, I think all of the suggestions were
great.
Jenny: He did wear that shirt.
Kristin: He wore the shirt! Like, that’s where I’m at, is—
Jenny: But also, nobody said the lunch lady and rat poison or the lunch lady and,
like, homicide?
Kristin: No, [laughs] nope, nobody said that!
Jenny: Well, I want to introduce those.
Kristin: Okay.
Jenny: But probably it should go to Giles and Joyce any chance we have the
opportunity.
Kristin: I just feel like that shirt—
Jenny: Yeah, no, he was going for it.
Kristin: Right?
Jenny: Mm-hmm.
Kristin: My vote is Giles and Joyce, with those—Cole nominated Joyles—Joyles!
Joyles.


Jenny: Joyles.
Kristin: Nominated Joyles.
Jenny: Cool, cool, cool, cool, cool! Alright!
Kristin: Kate S. nominated Joyles.
Jenny: Rupert, Joyce, look for the trophy in the mail, congratulations on this
momentous occasion.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Yes! Congrats! This trophy will have a little figurine
wearing a black button-up shirt.
Jenny: Mmmmm, yes.
Kristin: [laughs] Okay, so now that we’ve gotten that out of the way, shall we—
Jenny: Okay! Listen! The previously on, if you’re watching a version of the episode
that has a previously on, the previously on is so long! There are two entirely
separate scenes [Kristin laughs] to illustrate that the Mayor is now impervious,
whatever whatever, whatever. But the most important thing that happens in the
previously on is we get to see Buffy and Faith on their, like—sort of like, in lunge
positions, holding knives at one another’s throats?
Kristin: Hell yeah.
Jenny: And I could have just turned the episode off personally, there—
Kristin: Right then?
Jenny: And been like, cool.
Kristin: “Stick around.”
Jenny: [high pitched] “Stick around”?
Kristin: “Stick around,” she says, sexually.
Jenny: [laughs] Hmmm, yeah!
Kristin: [laughs] In my opinion, that’s an erotic novel, it’s just, “Stick around.”
Okay!


Jenny: Yeah. Speaking of knives—
Kristin: Yes! Speaking of knives—
Jenny: [like in Seven] “What’s in the box?”
Kristin: Oh my God, okay, wait, okay, so here’s the thing. Here’s the fucking thing!
Jenny: Uh huh?
Kristin: So this episode, Faith gets her knife. Right? Her own Mr. Pointy. If you will.
Jenny: Mm-hmmm. [laughs] Yeah.
Kristin: Faith’s own version of Mr. Pointy. She’s real excited about it. A few weeks
ago, I went to our P.O. box, I went to our P.O. box. Jenny was not even here.
Jenny: I was in New York.
Kristin: You were in New York, and I was like, “What is this hefty box?” And on the
box, it was from overseas, so it had a customs form on it—
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: And it was like, customs declaration: blunt knife. And I was like—[Jenny
laughs] I was like, “What? In the heck?”
Jenny: “Go onnn…”
Kristin: Yeah! “Please tell me more, customs form.” So I got home and I
unwrapped the box—
Jenny: I like that you waited til you got home.
Kristin: I mean.
Jenny: “Blunt knife!” Open it in the car!
Kristin: Listen, I had patience to get home, I opened the box, and inside as you
probably have gathered, was Faith’s knife.
Jenny: Ahhhhhhh!


Kristin: It’s called the Jackal. [Jenny laughs] Jenny? [laughs] Jenny? Do you have
something to say?
Jenny: Well, it’s like, it’s like extra—there’s like an extra weight—I don’t know if
you remember the episode of the West Wing where everyone’s like, “CJ’s gonna do
the thing, CJ’s gonna do the Jackal,” [Kristin laughs] and CJ Cregg like does this
weird lip-sync—
Kristin: Oh my god, yes! Yes! Wow!
Jenny: To this song, “The Jackal”?
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: So like, that is forever emblazoned upon my mind. And now will be
connected to this knife, forever, for me.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: CJ and Faith.
Kristin: Okay, great, wow, this is like a crossover crossover.
Jenny: Yes! Yes.
Kristin: Okay, so Lucy from across the pond, in Lucy’s own words, sent us this
knife and explained that they are a huge—they were a huge Buffy fan. I mean, still
obviously are. But when Lucy was 19, they had purchased this at the height of their
Buffy fandom, they had purchased the Jackal because their intention was always to
get it signed or put it in a display case. They never got around to it, and it’s been in
their cupboard ever since, and you know, they thought, “Who might—who would
appreciate–”
Jenny: Me! I would appreciate!!
Kristin: I lost my ever-living mind! I texted Jenny and then I texted everyone else
I knew because we hadn’t yet done Choices, so I couldn’t put it on the internet
right away.
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: It was a whole thing. Anyway—


Jenny: Yeah, back before there was the internet, if you wanted to, like, tell
everyone something—
Kristin: Yeah, you had to—
Jenny: You just had to—
Kristin: It took a long time!
Jenny: Just one at a time.
Kristin: One at a time! So, anyhow, we are now in possession of the Jackal—
Jenny: The Jackal!
Kristin: And if you want it, we put pictures up on social media and we’ll put the
picture up on Patreon of us with the Jackal. We’re very excited, Lucy. You know, we
really barely contained ourselves, so thank you! For that.
Jenny: Truly!
Kristin: I think we might have been as excited opening up that box as Faith was
opening her own!
Jenny: Yeah yeah, a hundred—yes, now listen!
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: We know that’s how excited we were because the first thing that I did when
I got home from New York was unsheath the Jackal and sniff it! [Kristin laughs]
Sniff it as hard as I could, which is exactly what Faith does when she takes it out of
the fucking box. And is like, “This is a thing of beauty, boss!” What? [laughs]
Kristin: [laughs] Yes, she does! She smells it!
Jenny: What?! The sniffing!
Kristin: She wants to smell that cold, hard steel.
Jenny: I mean, it might just be the camera angle, I’m willing to accept that it
might be the camera angle and that she’s just like, letting the light glint off of it and
looking at it from every angle and I—


Kristin: No, she’s totally smelling it!
Jenny: But it really looks like she’s smelling it.
Kristin: So, the Mayor and Faith, I really don’t—it’s getting grosser, for me, the way
that the Mayor is interacting with Faith.
Jenny: Mmm. Yeah.
Kristin: You know, we talked about it being a paternalistic kind of relationship—
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: And it was weird a couple episodes ago when he was like, “You should
probably try to have sex with Angel to take away—” like, ehhhhh.
Jenny: [simultaneously] Ehh, Dad!
Kristin: And this—yeah, and this scene, apart from your favorite knife sniff, I just
didn’t—it makes me very uncomfortable the way that he’s like, “I’m gonna take that
present away from you if you can’t be a good girl,” and like—
Jenny: Yeah, “no free rides.”
Kristin: And “have another cookie.” You know, just like, they’re playing into the
gross factor for us—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Of course, because this is a villian, never shall we forget, this is an evil
character.
Jenny: Listen, nobody is in the coupling that they want to be in, truly, in their
hearts, in this episode.
Kristin: Oh boy!
Jenny: Faith is hanging out with the Mayor at the Mayor’s office because what else
can she do? Buffy meanwhile has had to find somebody else to take to the
cemetery to kill vampires, and it’s just Angel.
Kristin: Yeah. [laughs]


Jenny: I mean, he’s just there, and like, he’s gorgeous and tall and whatever, but
you know what he’s not?
Kristin: What?
Jenny: Faith.
Kristin: Yeah, you know what else, Jenny?
Jenny: What?
Kristin: They sure didn’t finish at the same time. [both laugh]
Jenny: Listen! It’s like a very special, rare—
Kristin: Yes, yes!
Jenny: Sometimes you go your whole life slaying vampires and you never find
somebody who finishes at the same time.
Kristin: Yep! Right? And when you do, you should really keep that person close.
Jenny: Mmhmm!
Kristin: Sadly, that person is not close, and instead we have—
Jenny: And Buffy is forced! [Kristin laughs] Reduced to getting hungry and horny in
the cemetery with somebody who is not Faith, which, what a bummer.
Kristin: I have to say, like, Angel—we talked in the last episode about Angel’s
comedy line.
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: But he’s really—something’s happening to our Angel.
Jenny: He’s really leaning—he’s been reading the forums.
Kristin: Uh-huh! People like it when—
Jenny: [simultaneously] Everyone’s like it’s so great when Angel is dry. And he’s
like, “Watch me crackle.”


Kristin: Right? He’s like, talking about like, “What about that one time when I
brought you to that cave.”
Jenny: To the sea cave!
Kristin: Yeah, right.
Jenny: That other kind of demon.
Together: “I thought that was a nice change of pace!” [laughter]
Kristin: It’s like, pretty funny, man! Like, you're making me laugh and I like it, I’ll
take it.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: You know ‘cause as I always say, for every brood, you need a good laugh,
and Angel’s been giving us a lot of brood and no laughs for quite some time.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah, now he’s turning it around, making up for lost time.
Kristin: Yeah! One thing that I just want to call attention to before we move
forward is that the Mayor keeps pink Saran wrap in his drawer.
Jenny: Oh my god. Yeah, it’s pink.
Kristin: I just found it very sad—there’s a lot of little details in this episode. I
mean, we’ve seen details from the Mayor, right? The sanitizer wipes and the, you
know—
Jenny: [yells] Milk!
Kristin: The milk.
Jenny: [still yelling] Unrefrigerated milk alert! [both laugh]
Kristin: And the unrefrigerated milk. But in this episode, we have the Saran wrap
in the drawer, there’s also a scene later where Faith is entering and the Mayor’s,
like, busy sorting his pencils, making sure they’re all in their proper places? [Jenny
laughs] So just a lot of little details—
Jenny: Sure.


Kristin: Mayoral details. But anyway! The credits.
Jenny: [sings a few syllables]
Kristin: [sings a few syllables] Now we go to the house.
Jenny: Joyce is so proud!
Kristin: Joyce is the most proud.
Jenny: Northwestern! Do you have any friends who went to Northwestern?
Kristin: I don’t. Northwestern is in Chicago, right?
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: No, Northeastern.
Jenny: I have a friend who went to Northwestern.
Kristin: Who, Jenny?
Jenny: One of probably the sm—if not the smartest, like—
Kristin: Who?
Jenny: Uh, my friend Britt.
Kristin: Your friend Britt—oh, aww, I remember Britt!
Jenny: From my graduating class in high school.
Kristin: Yes!
Jenny: She went to Northwestern, and she was—
Kristin: She is very smart.
Jenny: And she is definitely in the top, like, two or three smart—if not the
smartest. Not that it’s a contest, not that intelligence is quantifiable, but—
Kristin: Sounds like maybe you’re making a list.


Jenny: The kind of person that you don’t want to have to square off against in
anything academic.
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah, I don’t know if I know anybody that went to Northwestern.
I always confuse it with Northeastern, and we definitely know at least one person
that went to—I know at least two—
Jenny: Tamara went to Northeastern, for a minute.
Kristin: Oh, and so did Maddie, and so did this other—
Jenny: We’ll just list some of our friends you don’t know. [laughs]
Kristin: Sure, yeah, that’s great. Because we know how to podcast. We know what
the people want.
Jenny: But hey, if the fucking smartest person I know from high school went to
Northwestern and Buffy got in, because of her SAT scores and as we all know, SAT
scores are the only thing that matter.
Kristin: Right. Well, I mean, I don’t know, I probably—I think she gets a leg up for
being a slayer, you know, they’re like, “Well, her SAT scores are pretty good and
also, she’s the chosen one.”
Jenny: “Very agile.”
Kristin: Yeah, you know, I think most colleges would take the chosen one.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: Just for the novelty of it.
Jenny: You think she put that in her personal essay?
Kristin: No, she didn’t. Joyce gives us our titular line here. “Buffy, you have so
many [pause] choices!”
Jenny: I made a list of some of the “choices” that occur in this episode.
Kristin: [laughs] Okay, great, tell us all the moments when we get the titular
moment.


Jenny: Can I just blow through it right now?
Kristin: Yeah, all of them, do it.
Jenny: Colleges for Buffy, colleges for Willow, colleges for Cordelia, a road trip for
Xander, taking the fight to the Mayor or not taking the fight to the Mayor.
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: Willow v. box, heyo.
Kristin: Uh-huh. [laughs]
Jenny: Willow reading books instead of escaping. That’s as many as I collected.
Kristin: Oh, wow, wow Well, I think one of the biggest choices is between—well,
we’ll get there, but between Wesley and the Scoobies. Wesley saying thousands of
lives versus—
Jenny: That’s Willow v. box!
Kristin: Oh, Willow v. box! I’m sorry.
Jenny: Sorry, sorry, sorry. I should have explained my shorthand.
Kristin: Yeah, yeah. [laughs]
Jenny: That could have meant a lot of things.
Kristin: Okay, so we’ll get there, because I want to talk about that.
Jenny: Of course!
Kristin: Of course, but for now, I just want to shout out to Joyce gets on the phone
with her relative in Chicago, maybe her sister?
Jenny: Yeah, like, Aunt Darlene, I think?
Kristin: Aunt Darlene. “How you doin’?” she says, doesn't take a breath, and says,
“Listen! You’ll never believe!” And I thought—
Jenny: Peak Mom! Peak Mom!


Kristin: Yeah, and I thought, you know, the Buffy apple doesn’t fall far from the
Joyce tree, you know? [Jenny laughs] This lady ain’t even gonna wait for her to say
what’s going on with her life, she’s like, “Let me tell you about mine.”
Jenny: Uh-huh! Wow.
Kristin: So, just saying. Snyder is really confused about what packaging drugs
come in for the whole episode. That’s his throughline.
Jenny: Yeah, totally! [both laugh]
Kristin: He’s like, “That lunchbag surely is where you’re keeping your drugs!”
Jenny: Yeah, never seen one of those rectangular craft paper bags on a picnic table
at school during lunch hours before.
Kristin: And certainly if you’re not keeping your drugs in your lunchbag, you're
keeping it in a giant box with a fucking—[laughs]
Jenny: Built-in mutant spider defense mechanism.
Kristin: Right, right. Also, where drugs are kept!
Jenny: Totally!
Kristin: So Snyder needs a little—this reminds me of—so I don’t mean to
scandalize anyone, but I got caught smoking pot—
Jenny: [fake outrage] What?!
Kristin: I was in high school, I was a sophomore, I was fifteen. And my parents
were upset, obviously. And my mom was like, not so sure about what pot might
smell like? Like, she definitely—my mom has definitely smoked pot at some points
in her life, but had been far enough away from it for long enough—
Jenny: Yo! Sorry, you are lighting a fire for me—please go on.
Kristin: Yes, well, okay, so just to—it’s a very quick story. I remember right in the
aftermath of it, like a week or two later, I was in the kitchen, it was late at night, I
had just come home from hanging out with my friends. And I was peeling an
orange. And my mom came downstairs and was like, “I smell pot!” And I was like,
“It’s the orange.” And she was like, “I smell pot!” [Jenny laughs] And I was like,


“It’s a orange!” I definitely did not smoke any pot, and it was just like—whatever,
my mom and Snyder share some commonality, is all I’m saying.
Jenny: Ahhh.
Kristin: Paranoia around pot.
Jenny: Yes. What is it about grown-ups who totally have smoked pot—
Kristin: Right?
Jenny: But, like, now can’t, like—I remember, once I went swimming in a local
creek with some friends and then—
Kristin: Uh-huh. As you do.
Jenny: As you do, and then my friends and I went back to one of my friends’
house, and their parents—their dad was like, convinced that the smell of creekwater
was the smell of weed.
Kristin: Like, what?
Jenny: And I was like, “Bro.”
Kristin: Right? But there’s no—
Jenny: We literally all just went somewhere in our clothes or swimsuits and jumped
in water and came back. Where even do you think—
Kristin: I mean. You definitely could have smoked pot.
Jenny: Sure, but it just was like, you know me. I’m not really into, like, the idea of
being told that I did something that I didn’t do.
Kristin: Yeah, you don’t like it! You don’t like it!
Jenny: [simultaneously] You know what I mean? If I fuck up and I do something
wrong, I’m happy to self-flagellate.
Kristin: Right. [laughs]
Jenny: But I’m not gonna take it for something I didn’t fucking do.


Kristin: Right—
Jenny: And like, shut up and learn what pot smells like.
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah but I think, you know, parents, they don’t have a lot of control
at that point in their parenthood, you know? It’s like, you have to let your kid go,
like, swim in a creek. You have to let your kid go hangout with their friends and you
can’t control what's happening. So you get in your head—[excitedly] it's funny
because smoking pot can make you paranoid, but smoking pot can also make your
parents paranoid—
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: Even if they don't smoke the pot! [makes a “mind blown” explosion sound]
Jenny: [Loud, extended, sarcastic] Wooooooooow. It’s a non-contact high side
effect?
Kristin: Yes! I hope that some stoned people are listening to this right now stoned
so that their minds just exploded! Okay, cool and now I’m the person who doesn’t
know what pot does. [Jenny laughs] I’m like [wacky voice] “They’re probably
hallucinating!” [both laugh]
Jenny: So—
Kristin: So—
Jenny: Xander’s taking it on the road.
Kristin: Yeah, this is funny, I like this. This is exactly what Xander would do. Like,
this is on brand for Xander—
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: He’s gonna take it on the road, he’s gonna read Jack Kerouac, you know.
He's gonna find himself in the beat poets—
Jenny: [flatly] Uh-huh.
Kristin: And you know what? Maybe there's something for him to find there.
Jenny: [doubtfully] Maybe.


Kristin: Like, I’m not gonna argue. I’m not gonna take Xander away from reading
Kerouac. I’m not gonna do it.
Jenny: Sure, I would like Xander to find somebody other than Cordelia to talk to,
and vice versa—
Kristin: Dude!
Jenny: Enough!
Kristin: I am so bored of this plot line!
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Like, it's enough. I just feel…listen. I don't mean to insult anybody but I
feel like there's a little bit of laziness happening in getting to Cordelia plot points?
Like, that the only way we ever get to Cordelia plot points is—
Jenny: Is by her and Xander scratching at each others’...underbellies
Kristin: [simultaneously] Her and Xander and also her being a total asshole in a
way that is…the season started—the series started with her being kind of
one-dimensional. And then she became multi-dimensional and somebody pointed
out—maybe we even talked about it in another episode—that like, since her and
Xander broke up she’s really lost a lot of her dimensionality. It just feels like
nobody’s trying—
Jenny: Uh-huh. Mmm.
Kristin: It feels like they’re really...I don't know and I’m bored! They've been
fighting like this forever, there's not even a reason for them to be fighting anymore.
Like, either she’s not on the show anymore or she’s on the show. If she’s on the
show, give her some damn, like, good—give her some good ins. Instead of just
walking onto set, walking onto screen, being an asshole—
Jenny: Well, do think though for a moment about how many people they’re trying
to juggle—
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: And keep us invested in all at the same time. Like, the cast has expanded
significantly. We've got…Oz, Angel is back and things are weird over there—


Kristin: Sure, fine, but then like—
Jenny: Faith, the mayor…[laughs] you don’t want me to make a long list?
Kristin: No! They’re doing a good job with everybody else, they can do a good job
with Cordelia.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: And I do not feel that a good job is being done with Cordelia. I believe that
everyone has forgotten that she has many layers and they're only focusing on one,
and I have had it!
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: That’s all.
Jenny: Noted.
Kristin: [laughing] Okay! Also, just a little shout out to a line in this scene where
they're outside. Because of course Willow has gotten into every school.
Jenny: [laughing] Mmhmm.
Kristin: But she’s talking about Oxford, not to be confused with Oxnard, and she
says—Buffy says, “That’s where they make Gileses!”
Jenny: [chuckling] It’s very cute.
Kristin: It was very cute! It was a very cute little line. So, shout out to it.
Jenny: So, Buffy, after being told that she has no future by Cordelia, immediately
storms into the library—
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: And is like: “I must—I suddenly must—the most important thing in my
entire existence is that I go away to school.”
Kristin: Right. And this is like…[sly voice] choices.
Jenny: [high voice] And Giles is so proud!


Kristin: Giles is so proud that she got into Northwestern. And also, like, I think that
an important thing that happens in this scene is Buffy's discussion. You know, it’s
brief, but it’s like, “I’m a person and I don’t want to be defined by being The Slayer.
Like, that’s not the only thing I am, I’m other things outside of that.” So, like—
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm. Listen, nobody wants to be defined by one dimension
of their personhood.
Kristin: Exactly.
Jenny: But like, this leads her to very proactive, “Let’s take the fight to the Mayor”
approach.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Let's take the fight to the mayor so I can defeat the evil so I can go away to
college!
Kristin: Yeah, not sound reasoning here. But it does at least get us a great move
from Wesley, who crosses two fingers by two fingers [Jenny laughs] over his chest
and says “By the power invested in me” [both laugh], which is delightful.
Jenny: It’s pretty good.
Kristin: But I’m annoyed with Wesley, you know? I feel like I had a more rounded
understanding of Wesley's character coming into Wesley, and I forgot how much I
did not like Wesley.
Jenny: Yeah, I mean, nobody likes Wesley right now.
Kristin: No! I mean he’s a pain in the fucking ass and—whatever I’ll get there later
because he really bothers me in this episode.
Jenny: Uh-huh, uh-huh, uh-huh.
Kristin: Bothers me with a lot of things but whatever. Over you, Wesley!
Jenny: Uhhhhhh...
Kristin: What. Is. Faith. Wearing. [Jenny laughs] To. The airport! What. Is she
wearing?
Jenny: Because her boobs, if i remember correctly—


Kristin: There are encased in sa-teen [satin]. [both laugh] And held up by leather.
Jenny: [laughing] Okay!
Kristin: I’m just saying it’s a...sight to behold! You cannot help but to be like, what
is happening?
Jenny: Sure.
Kristin: Like, she picked that outfit out!
Jenny: Also just putting this out there I mean…she's still lugging that compound
bow around—
Kristin: She loves the bow!
Jenny: And you’re drawing that across your chest, you know, with your arm out in
front of you and sort of to the side of your chest, right?
Kristin: And as we learned from The Hunger Games, the string is probably pressing
up against your mouth when you aim.
Jenny: Yeah, and it’s gonna whip across your body as you [laughs] release!
Kristin: So you’re worried about Faith’s breasts?
Jenny: I’m worried about her “sa-teen.” I’m worried about her leather. I’m worried
about the many available solid things with which the bowstring—
Kristin: [laughing] This is also how Jenny also talks about anyone else's breasts,
their “solid things.” Those solid things! That you have! On your body!
Jenny: [laughs] I’m just concerned for her wellbeing! It doesn’t seem like a) what
you want to wear to murder, b) what you want to wear to the airport, or c) what
you want to wear when you’re using your compound bow.
Kristin: [laughs] I agree.
Jenny: So.
Kristin: Not to be like, the line police here, shouting out lines.


Jenny: [laughing] Oh, yeah!
Kristin: But like, I’m sorry, the guy’s like, “You killed him,” and Faith’s like, [Boston
accent] “What are ya, the narrator?”
Jenny: It’s really—it’s quite good. It’s inarguably great—
Kristin: Like, it’s great, it’s really—good chuckle.
Jenny: From my perspective. Now what is this trash where she’s like, “Ah, he’s
cuffed to the box,” and then she draws her knife, and then, [laughs] the vampire’s
like, “That won’t cut through steel,” and she’s like, “It’ll cut through bone,” and then
the vampire’s like, “Whoa, this bitch is bad!” [Kristin laughs] Like, what vampire’s
gonna be like, [fake disbelief] “You’re gonna cut through bone?”
Kristin: Also, how does she know it will cut through bone? Do you think that’s why
she sniffed it?
Jenny: Maybe.
Kristin: She was like, [sniffing sounds], “Yes, this will do. This will cut through
bone but not steel.”
Jenny: Now, when I christen my knives—
Kristin: Uh-huh.
Jenny: I almost always start by cutting through some kind of bone.
Kristin: This is disturbing. [Jenny laughs] Backtrack.
Jenny: No, I just went to the butcher and I was like, “Give me your roundest–” no?
Kristin: [laughs] No, yeah, keep going, Jenny! Now where’s it gonna go? Your
roundest…?
Jenny: [laughs] I don’t know what—Kristin goes to the butcher, not me.
Kristin: “Give me your solid objects.”
Jenny: [laughs] Oh no.


Kristin: Okay, so, Buffy is back to hiding. She’s—you know, I really miss the trench
coat and the tiny glasses. From Season 1—
Jenny: Yes! But here we get a taste of it as she ducks into the bushes.
Kristin: Into the bushes. She’s just not—it’s not her thing. And the mayor is
organizing his pencils as noted, and yeah, this is—you know, she sees the box go
in, right? Is that what happens?
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: And then she goes after the vamp who’s scandalized.
Jenny: Yeah, and she’s like, [yelling] “What’s in the box!”
Kristin: Yeah, “what's in the box!”
Jenny: So…listen—
Kristin: Speaking of outfits.
Jenny: Yes?
Kristin: Willow’s dress!
Jenny: Is it the long crushed velvet thing?
Kristin: Yes, yes, yes. It’s good. It’s good.
Jenny: Wait, because also…just hang on.
Kristin: Okay.
Jenny: Okay. “Made him an offer he couldn't survive.” I feel like this episode is like
really snappy. Like, really, really, really snappy.
Kristin: Yes, it is! I’m sure that if we looked at other episodes written by David
Fury—
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: We would see the snappiness ‘cause that's what I’m noticing. Now that
we’re paying—okay, Sam. [Jenny laughs] I’m just gonna give you all—


Jenny: [both laugh] Sam!
Kristin: What are you doing, Sam?! Sam is trying to climb up onto an amp in the
room and she's all a fool. Today is Sam's birthday, everyone.
Jenny: Happy Birthday Sam!
Kristin: I mean, not the day you’re listening to this but the day we’re recording it is
Sam’s birthday and she's really upset with us for doing work on her birthday.
Jenny: She's really expressing her displeasure in a serious way. Okay, so before we
get to Willow’s dress that you like so much.
Kristin: Uh-huh.
Jenny: I wanna talk about a couple things that happen at city hall. First of all, the
mayor is like—oh, god. Dude, such a mistake. He’s like, “Oh, Faith you’re so
competent. Oh, Faith you’re so good at killing people I didn’t even ask you to kill.
Oh, the initiative, oh!” And she’s like, “Go on.” And he’s like, “Yeah, if Buffy
Summers came in here and said ‘I’d like to work for you’ I’d tell her to take a hike!”
And it's like, read the fucking room, bro!
Kristin: Yeah, dude.
Jenny: The only open wound to which you have immediate access and you're just
gonna fucking jam your finger in there and make [quietly, sadly] Faith feel bad.
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah. Faith—I had a lot of little sad emojis for Faith in this.
Jenny: It’s a rough, rough episode for— to see where Faith is at.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Right? It just is. It’s like, I dont think I’m ever going to
get to a point where I’m like, “Fuck you, Faith.” You know? I’m just always like,
[upset] god.
Jenny: Never!
Kristin: Nevah! No matter what!
Jenny: [simultaneously] No, I will only allow you to be in a place where you say
“Faith, we do have a guest bed.” [Kristin laughs] And also—


Kristin: Yes?
Jenny: And also, Faith is like—and this is not the first time this happens in the
episode. Faith is lifting up the lid and the Mayor is like, “Don’t do that!”
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Okay, so listen, don't you think if you have a huge, ancient-looking box and
it contains fifty billion—fifty billion horrifying mutant spiders the size of
footballs—don’t you think you think you would have fucking latches on that
goddamn box?
Kristin: Agree. Like, a lock and like many things—
Jenny: [simultaneously] Unbelievable! At least latches! Definitely a lock in my
book, but like what is everybody doing? Okay, now back to the dress you like so
much.
Kristin: Whatever, it's just a dress, it’s made of velvet, I like it. I think it looks
really good on Willow. I think it’s really—she’s really embracing her wiccan nature,
you know?
Jenny: Is that…okay?
Kristin: Yes, it’s great, its beautiful. She’s doing a good job, Jenny. She’s doing a
great, beautiful job.
Jenny: Yeah. She looks like the inside of a conch shell.
Kristin: Wow. A compliment, I suppose?
Jenny: Definitely. Have you ever seen the inside of a conch shell? So beautiful.
[Kristin laughs] Sorry.
Kristin: You gonna be alright? You need a minute?
Jenny: [laughing] I’m okay.
[Ad break]
Kristin: Okay. So this scene in the library is basically there to show us that nobody
cares what Wesley thinks and nobody’s listening to Wesley and Wesley’s getting
mad. Right?


Jenny: Yeah…
Kristin: I don’t have any other details here except for I get it, we don’t listen to
Wesley.
Jenny: Yeah, he’s—mmhmm, yes.
Kristin: Then we go to the shop where Cordelia is looking at a dress. Although
she’s—
Jenny: How dare she!
Kristin: [laughs] Although she’s not looking at a dress she’s work—I mean, she’s
looking at a dress but as we find out later—
Jenny: But as we don’t know yet—
Kristin: We don’t know yet! She also apparently just carries her acceptance letters
with her wherever she goes.
Jenny: And like, leaves her purse around on the floor when she’s working.
Kristin: Right, right. [laughs] So yeah, Cordelia—whatever. This is where I wrote
“the Xander/Cordy shit is getting old.” Xander walks in to be like. [in an
exaggerated mocking voice] “You didn’t get into any colleges and I know because
I’m stupid and my name is Xander!” [Jenny laughs] And then Cordelia is like, “My
name is Cordelia and I don’t remember having any layers so I’m just gonna show
you all the places I got into college.”
Jenny: “And also I’m mean.”
Kristin: Yeah, I’m done.
Jenny: Boo!
Kristin: Whatever, so then it’s time—
Jenny: To synchronize our watches?
Kristin: To synchronize the watches we don’t have.
Jenny: Beautiful.


Kristin: Very, very fun. So they’re all in the van, which I believe is the white hat
van in the episode where we’re in—
Jenny: Yeah, where’d that van even come from?
Kristin: Right?
Jenny: It’s not Oz’s van, Oz has a totally different van.
Kristin: No! Right, it’s like the white hat van is all I’m saying. Wait! Was the white
hat van Oz’s van? No, it was a different van so—
Jenny: No. Uh, yeah. Wait! I think that van was a whole other van.
Kristin: Oh my god.
Jenny: If somebody could just prepare a set of screenshots for us of every van
that’s appeared in this show up to this point that would be fantastic, thank you!
Kristin: Are they renting vans when they need them? What’s going on?
Jenny: Oh my gosh, oh my gosh!
Kristin: Okay, so right, nobody has a watch, they all have a plan. Who’s gonna do
what, who’s gonna do this, you’re gonna go there. Willow’s there for magic, which is
cool ‘cause she’s really starting to be used for her magic skills.
Jenny: Yeah, it’s so great. Now I know when I have an evil artifact that’s very
important to my demonic ascension—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: I always wanna leave that in an empty conference room underneath the
skylight, of course!
Kristin: Underneath the skylight, yes, exactly.
Jenny: Where else is safe to put it?
Kristin: Safest place. With no latch on it.
Jenny: No, no, no, no, no.


Kristin: Just leave it there and it’ll be cool, with some vamps in the hallway, not
even in there.
Jenny: Don’t you think—even with no latches on it, don’t you think the mutant
spiders could actually open it up themselves if they really—
Kristin: I don’t know, there’s probably some metaphydics happening here. You
know?
Jenny: Okay, right, right, right, sure, sure, sure, sure.
Kristin: So before we get to the big moment, [both chuckle] we go to the library
where I just really enjoy that Xander and Oz have been left behind to do magic.
Like, the basic magic now.
Jenny: Of all the—right, right, right, right.
Kristin: You know, Willow’s advanced to level 301. So I guess just give it to Oz and
Xander? And they’re like, they trusted us so I guess it can’t be that hard.
Jenny: And Willow made them a little set of diagrams.
Kristin: A little set of diagrams which is very cute. I also really liked that one of the
ingredients in their spell was twice-blessed sage.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: I feel like I’ve been missing out ‘cause I think—
Jenny: You’ve been settling for once-blessed.
Kristin: Once-blessed or maybe never-blessed! I don’t even know! I’ve never
heard—
Jenny: [simultaneously] Who even knows? If I bless it twice, does that count or is
there a particular protocol?
Kristin: [simultaneously] I don’t think so. I think you have to have some kind of
blessing power to bless it but—
Jenny: You don’t think I have blessing power?


Kristin: But I— [laughs] I didn’t mean—you know, I—
Jenny: We’ve been together for eight years and you don’t think I have blessing
power? What the fuck!
Kristin: [simultaneously] We’re making a podcast this is not the place to have a
fight. Listen everything’s fine we’ll talk about it after.
Jenny: Okay, okay.
Kristin: Great, [laughs] so now Jenny, now...
Jenny: [makes uncomfortable noises]
Kristin: Some stuff happens. First of all, Willow does—
Jenny: [to the tune of the Detective Angel jingle] Winch Master Angel!
Kristin: [laughs] No. We’re not there yet.
Jenny: Oh.
Kristin: It’s almost time for the jingle. But first, Willow uses her magic and baby
powder or whatever the fuck it is—
Jenny: Sure, yeah.
Kristin: To break the spell, so good on her.
Jenny: Beautiful.
Kristin: Now, break out the fucking zipline or whatever you call this fucking thing.
Now it’s time for what, Jenny?
[Detective Angel jingle plays]
Kristin: While that was playing, Jenny let me know that she had said “winch
master Angel.” I didn’t hear it, I thought she said something about witches and I
railroaded her joke.
Jenny: How dare you.
Kristin: So Jenny, I’m sorry.


Jenny: It’s okay. I’m not even sure that thing’s technically a winch.
Kristin: [laughs] It’s certainly not a zip line, that’s what I called it. [both laugh] So
detective Angel lowers Buffy— this is ridiculous.
Jenny: Oh, this is so stupid.
Kristin: It’s so stupid! He lowers her down to the box, she picks up the box and the
vamps are like, “uh-oh.”
Jenny: Well, an alarm goes off. It’s not attached to anything but just, like, a school
bell alarm goes off.
Kristin: Right, it’s like, there’s lasers that we can’t see in the room or something.
Jenny: Don’t you think we would have seen lasers from when the dust went down?
Kristin: Yes, I do, I really do, but you know what I think, Jenny?
Jenny: What’s that?
Kristin: I think that Angel is one of the strongest fucking vampires that exist on the
planet. He cannot lift her up with his arms? He cannot pull her up through the
window? Why? What is the point of making him strong?
Jenny: Maybe he’s pulling on the thing, it’s jammed, he’s like I’ll just pull harder
and then it will unjam, but that doesn’t work. And then by the time he might have
been like, “guess I’ll start hoisting you up,” the alarm was already going off. Help
was already on the way.
Kristin: No.
Jenny: It would have taken too long for him to hoist.
Kristin: This is ridiculous.
Jenny: Listen, I wanna watch Angel hoist…I wanna say “hoist” as many times as I
possibly can.
Kristin: [laughs] Winch and hoist!
Jenny: And I wanna watch Angel hoist people all the day long, but whatever.


Kristin: Anyway, he doesn’t and so she’s like, uh-oh, guess you’re not gonna help
me get down, are ya? And then Angel jumps down and they fight the vamps and
here’s what I love, is that—
Jenny: What do you love?
Kristin: Angel has a flashback and he’s like, remember that time that door fell on
me and I couldn’t get up for ages? I know. [Jenny laughing] I’ll put this table on top
of the vampires and they won’t be able to get up. And it works! Because you know
there’s just a couple of ways to disarm a vamp, you can stake ‘em or you can put
one flat piece of wood on top of them, [both laugh] they can’t do anything.
Jenny: Yeah, well, think about how many potential stakes are alive within that one
flat piece of wood.
Kristin: [laughing] Right, right, right.
Jenny: So this fight sequence—you know—
Kristin: It’s silly. It’s got some good box whacking, sorry.
Jenny: “Box whacking,” an American classic, of course. Yeah, it’s very proppy and
very, like, [singing] do-do-do-do-do-do.
Kristin: Right, but whatever…
Jenny: Blankety, shwankety do! But whatever, they fight the guys, they put a table
on top of them. And then they run out and duck into the bushes and then! The
black van somehow is perfectly timed to just, like, peel past—
Kristin: Distract them.
Jenny: Right, and what are they gonna circle back? Or they’re just gonna drive and
lose the vampires while Buffy and Angel run in the opposite direction and they all
meet back at the—okay.
Kristin: Yeah, I think that they knew what they were doing. I think they saw what
what was happening and they were like, they’ll think that they’re in the van or
whatever.
Jenny: Yeah, lot of stuff going on there.


Kristin: So the mayor loses his temper—
Jenny: Yo!
Kristin: [simultaneously] I think for the first time. I mean, he kinda lost his temper
a little bit with Faith here and there. But like, he loses it and it’s scary. I thought it
was scary.
Jenny: Yeah, yep, mmhmm, yep.
Kristin: Right? And then we find out that Faith has done something good. I mean,
it’s not good, but for her position as the mayor’s assistant.
Jenny: I really like seeing him go from—I feel like we see the pendulum swing and
then swing back. Like, we see him be like, “well, this is a gosh darn
disappointment!”
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: And then he’s like, [angry] “They’ve got my box!” in that scary, my jaw is
wired shut, angry stepdad way.
Kristin: Yeah, right, exactly.
Jenny: [laughs] Just a little rep for all you angry stepdad-having kids out there,
cool vibe. [Kristin laughs] And then when Faith busts in with her knife on Willow’s
throat, he’s just, like, right back to gleams-ville.
Kristin: Showing us, right, that as joyful and jolly as the mayor is that there’s such
a thin little layer of that, and underneath is some scary shit. So now we go to the
library—
Jenny: [blows out through lips] [sighs] Losing battle, Wes.
Kristin: But this is some real shit, right?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Because Wesley’s argument is a valid argument.
Jenny: Sure.


Kristin: It’s not where I side and it’s not where the Scoobies side, but it’s not like
he’s saying something ridiculous.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: He’s just saying, you don’t understand what you’re—like, you’re not
thinking of the big picture here, you’re only thinking of the immediate thing in front
of you.
Jenny: Uh-huh.
Kristin: And it’s a challenging thing to unpack, right? Like, if I were them and if I
am me, you go and you save Willow ‘cause that’s what you do. Because Willow’s
part of your group and part of your core and that is what people do, you’re loyal.
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: But in a larger scale, it is like, if you know you’re sacrificing one for the
lives of thousands and if you save that one, then everyone might die, it’s tricky.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: But you know who it’s not fucking tricky for?
Jenny: Well, I mean, everyone but most of all, Oz.
Kristin: Most of all, Oz. Now I have sexual tension award nominees that are
probably more aligned with where we normally give sexual tension—
Jenny: What! [laughs]
Kristin: But I just wanna put myself into the ring, that I would like to be
considered for a sexual tension award with Oz when he knocks over the—
Jenny: Woooooow!
Kristin: Because let me tell you what, as much as I love Faith and as much as I
love this person or that person, I don’t think I have been as turned on in the series
to date as I was when Oz got up out of his damn chair and was like, blam!
Jenny: [high pitched] What the fuck!
Kristin: Sorry. It’s how I feel.


Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: I’m into it, Jenny. I don’t think we’re gonna win but I just wanna put us as
nominees, okay?
Jenny: [laughs] Okay. Well, listen, it would only be fair for you to be considered in
a pairing.
Kristin: I agree. But soon, we’re gonna get to another pairing that I think might
take it.
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: But before then, we go to the mayor’s office. We’re in the mayor’s office
for a while now. A lot of things happen. First of all, Willow using that magic to slay a
fucking vamp with a pencil.
Jenny: Oh, hell yeah.
Kristin: This is great, this is a great skill. Maybe we’re gonna see Willow actually
levitating stakes and bigger objects to slay demons and monsters.
Jenny: [simultaneously] That would…rock.
Kristin: I’m into it. We learn that the mayor has had a dog named Rusty.
Jenny: And that he learned dog’s sense of friendship is stronger than reason or
their sense of self preservation, which makes me feel like he killed his dog, just
putting it out there.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Awwwwwww, oh no!
Jenny: Don’t you just like—
Kristin: God, it was already sad and now I’m sadder.
Jenny: I know. I don’t know maybe I’m wrong—
Kristin: I don’t think so. I think it’s just like, you know, the movie Up when the dog
hides under the thing.
Jenny: [gasps, high pitched] “I hid under the porch because I love you?!”


Kristin: Yes! It’s like—
Jenny: Okay, okay.
Kristin: Oh, Jenny, do we need to take a break so you can cry for a minute? You
gonna be alright?
Jenny: No, no. [laughs] No, no, no, no I’m good.
Kristin: But like, you know, it’s like a dog’s faithfulness is a thing. It doesn’t mean
you have to kill your dog to find that out. It’s kind of just a dog trait.
Jenny: Yeah but—okay, okay.
Kristin: We see the map of Santa Barbara in the mayor’s office.
Jenny: We sure do, and then Willow finds the books of the ascension in the dark
arts cabinet.
Kristin: She does. And they do a nice little crossfade here to show us that she’s
been reading them for quite some time.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, the passage of time, spanning time, spanning time.
Kristin: Yes, how did they—who do you think was the first person that ever did a
crossfade to signal the passing of time, ‘cause we all know that now, we see a
crossfade, we’re like—
Jenny: That’s what it means!
Kristin: Yeah, but I don’t know—
Jenny: But do let us know.
Kristin: Yes, please write in.
Jenny: Whoever out there knows.
Kristin: Bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com and let us know if you know where
the crossfade came in. So here’s where—
Jenny: [sighs] So much to say. Can I leap?


Kristin: Please, leap.
Jenny: So Faith finds Willow reading—
Kristin: Yeah, she does.
Jenny: And she’s like, “Mmm, the little bookworm.”
Kristin: Yeah, she does. She’s like, “a red head.”
Jenny: [both laugh] Okay, and then Willow does her bootstraps Rosenberg routine
where I have—first of all I like “it’s way too late,” even though I don’t believe that. I
thought it was great.
Kristin: No, great line.
Jenny: But then Willow does her whole, like, “Yeah, maybe you had a rough
childhood but like, you really fucked up and you didn’t, you know, reach your
potential and you didn’t work hard enough to not be evil” or whatever. And then she
says, “You had a lot more than many people, you had friends like Buffy.” [yells]
Buffy! Your friend who wouldn’t let you move in to her guest room?!
Kristin: Yeah…
Jenny: And plus many other things that we don’t need to go into here.
Kristin: Yeah, I mean, this is—Willow’s line of reasoning isn’t really spot on here,
but also, I love her. She’s furious with Faith. Faith has ruined people’s lives—
Jenny: Totally.
Kristin: Namely, her closest friend. You know, she knows Buffy feels like she can’t
even go away to college because Faith has just jumped ship and they were a team
before and whatever! You know, Willow—
Jenny: You think Willow’s mad at Faith for breaking Buffy’s heart?
Kristin: I do. I do. [Jenny squeals] I really do. ‘Cause like, this reminds me of my
best friend, who doesn’t ever have an emotion when something’s wrong for me,
except for to be angry at whatever the thing is that’s making me upset. You know,
she just—and that’s where Willow is. Willow’s just like, “You know what, you hurt


my friend and you’re a selfish piece of shit and I don’t care, you had friends and
you’re—boo-hoo!”
Jenny: And then Faith’s like, “You’re begging for some deep pain.”
Kristin: Yes, in case you missed what Jenny said, Faith says, “You’re beggin’...for
some deep…pain.” Okay, that’s fine, sure.
Jenny: [makes some throat clearing noises]
Kristin: So this is where I’m going to posit that another contender for the sexual
tension award in this episode—
Jenny: [long gasp]
Kristin: Is Faith and Willow. Right?
Jenny: Yes and then, of course, the third contender is Faith and the Jackal.
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah.
Jenny: Obviously.
Kristin: Obviously. So we’ll ruminate on that.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: And we’ll come back to it. You know what I think would be fun for Season
4? Jenny and everyone listening?
Jenny: What’s that? What’s that?
Kristin: Every time we do a sexual tension award, we say, here’s some nominees
and then we pick. But what if next season, we say the nominees and then we put
up a twitter poll.
Jenny: Oooooh.
Kristin: And we let them—you all—choose the winner.
Jenny: That’ll really streamline the bracket—end of season bracket process, it’ll
already be done.


Kristin: [laughs] No! They’re just picking the one, you don’t understand—
Jenny: I don’t know what I’m talking about, I should go.
Kristin: Emily, who makes our bracket is shaking her head, she’s like “the hell?”
Jenny: Sorry, Emily, I’m really stupid about brackets.
Kristin: [laughs] Anyway, I think it would be fun. We’ll see what happens but for
now, we’ll keep Season 3 consistent. We’ll still pick the winners for the rest of
Season 3. Anyway—
Jenny: So like, Buffy was like, “Giles, make the call.” And then they show up to the
trade and—
Kristin: Wait, wait, wait.
Jenny: Oh, oh, oh.
Kristin: ‘Cause I have a sad face for Faith—
Jenny: Okay—oh.
Kristin: Because after this whole thing that Willow says—
Jenny: Oh nooooo.
Kristin: She says, “I got someone. I got him.”
Jenny: Faith, noooooo! Come stay in our guest bed!
Kristin: [groans] You have an evil mayor, please, come to my arms. I’ll hold you so
tightly.
Jenny: Listen, sometimes when you don’t know what love looks like—
Kristin: Oh, it kills me.
Jenny: [simultaneously] You think love is a free nice apartment with a weird pink
couch that’s asymmetrical. And chocolate chip cookies and being told to wear your
hair back so that your pretty face is visible.


Kristin: [simultaneously] And warm milk, and not like warm milk. [Jenny laughs]
Milk that is warm in a way it shouldn’t be.
Jenny: Warmed in the sun.
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah. Okay, so anyway, now you were saying…
Jenny: Okay, so they’re meeting up for this—
Kristin: Stand off.
Jenny: This trade, which of course they’re doing in the school cafeteria and they’re
“securing all the doors.” I’m doing air quotes.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And don’t worry, Giles brought a baseball bat. And also don’t worry, Xander
brought a baseball hat [sic] with a hook on it.
Kristin: A baseball hat or a baseball bat?
Jenny: Oh my gosh! [both laugh] A baseball bat!
Kristin: I wish he had brought a baseball hat with a hook on it.
Jenny: Okay, okay, okay.
Kristin: Yeah, so they’re all ready and then somebody shuts the lights off.
Jenny: Yeah, someone mayoral.
Kristin: Right, or is it Snyder? Who knows.
Jenny: No, I think it’s the mayor. I think it’s pretty telegraphed to us via—
Kristin: So the mayor walks in and this is really great. The standoff here, I think is
done very nicely. I like the way it’s shot, I like the feeling of it. It’s the first
time—surprisingly, it’s the first time that Buffy and the mayor have met, face to
face. They’ve been in the same spaces a couple times—
Jenny: But never in this sort of context or directly contacting one another.
Kristin: They’ve never spoken to each other or really seen each other.


Jenny: And the way that the mayor uses this time is to just indulge in the
traditional “supervillain waxes poetic with relationship advice to couple who have a
225 year age difference” trope.
Kristin: Right?
Jenny: You know?
Kristin: Spike came first, now the mayor. [laughs]
Jenny: Ha! Yes, yes, yes.
Kristin: Everybody’s got something to say about these two lovebirds. But what’s
interesting— so the mayor, a lot happens. “She’s pretty, Angel, a little skinny.”
What?
Jenny: How dare you.
Kristin: You know what that calls for?
Jenny: [gasps]
[The Patriarchy Jingle plays]
Jenny: Keep your observations off my body.
Kristin: Yeah, and while we’re on the patriarchy train, let’s change that camera
angle and look over to Angel who says, “I like ‘em sane.”
Jenny: Okay, everyone’s doing a bad job.
Kristin: How ‘bout everybody needs to calm down.
Jenny: Also that leads to—I mean, not just for, like, don’t be a shitty person
reasons. But also don’t be a shitty person by, like, fucking insulting Faith who has a
knife pressed against the throat of Willow.
Kristin: Right, right, right. But this is really interesting. I find this to be really
interesting because the mayor—like, what is the mayor’s—the mayor isn’t doing—I
don’t think that the mayor is doing this for any reason but to just engage. He’s
just—


Jenny: That’s the kind of fucking weird guy he is. Like—
Kristin: Yeah, but he shares that he’s had this experience, that he was married and
he went through this shit with his wife. Like, what?
Jenny: Well, maybe there’s some, like, just wants to engage. But then maybe
there’s some, like, positioning himself as a person in a position of knowledge and
like, “I know better and I have this experience so I’m gonna tell you what you’re
too young and dumb to know.”
Kristin: Right and it could—I think maybe people would posit that he knows it’s
gonna mess with Buffy’s head and so it could be tactical in that sense. But it feels
like there’s more to it than just a tactical move, you know? So I just find it
interesting.
Jenny: I mean, he’s not wrong.
Kristin: No, he’s not wrong, and—
Jenny: Immortal and mortal does not make for an easy pairing.
Kristin: Exactly, and if we are believing him, if we’re assuming that he’s telling the
truth here, that he does have personal experience with it, that’s interesting. ‘Cause
he’s lived—he’s walked in those shoes, he’s actually done this thing. Sounds like
they were together till the end, although miserable. Just very interesting. What kind
of—
Jenny: It’s also like— yeah, oh sorry...
Kristin: No, just his line, “What kind of life can you offer her?” is very cutting and
very real and—you know?
Jenny: Yeah, and when he’s saying, “you wanna keep her from the life that she
deserves until it’s passed her by. Is that what you came back from hell for, is that
your greater purpose?” Like, where’s the mayor getting all of his information from?!
Kristin: Right? He knows about true happiness, he has a lot of back info on Angel.
Jenny: And then he’s just so disgusted, like, “ugh, make the trade there’s no
talking to these young people.”


Kristin: Yeah. He’s an interesting guy, that mayor, I’ll tell you what. Speaking of
layers, the mayor’s got a lotta layers too. So you know who doesn’t have many
layers—
Jenny: Snyder!
Kristin: Is fucking Snyder who walks in and is like, I knew you were dealing drugs
in this box full of spiders! [both laugh] It’s just ridiculous. So then we learn that
there are spiders in the box.
Jenny: Yeah, one of them eats a cop’s face.
Kristin: You know what this reminds me of, Jenny?
Jenny: What— uhh, Alien?
Kristin: [singing] Baaaaad Eggggs!
Jenny: Ohhhhhhhh. [both sing the tune]
Kristin: [singing] Baaaad egggggs!
Jenny: Mmhmm, yes, me too.
Kristin: I get the shivers the same way I got the shivers from the bugs in Bad Eggs
from these spiders, and they do a lot of similar things.
Jenny: A lot of scuttling.
Kristin: They are latching onto faces.
Jenny: Sure, sure, gross. So gross.
Kristin: They are getting knifed to the wall. Wasn’t that what happened to the bug,
they got knifed to the wall?
Jenny: [sighs] Actually I think it got scissored to the wall if I remember correctly.
Kristin: Same dif.
Jenny: Yeah, fifty billion.
Kristin and Jenny: Fifty billion.


Kristin: They made a sequel to this episode, was a movie called Arachnophobia.
Jenny: [laughs] Okay.
Kristin: That’s my 90s joke. I think it’s probably in the wrong order ‘cause I think
Arachnophobia came first.
Jenny: I think you’re right, I think it is in the wrong order. But Faith loses her knife.
Kristin: Oh god, yeah, okay, she does. I’m gonna talk about it in one second. We’ll
get there in one second, because I just want to make sure that everyone who’s
watched the episode saw Snyder’s reaction to the mayor’s face healing. It is
spectacular. [Jenny laughs] He is so horrified. Which is interesting because up until
this point, we’ve heard Snyder—like, we know Snyder’s in the loop in a sense.
Jenny: Tapped in a bit.
Kristin: Yeah. But yet, it seems like now, watching this scene, he’s very ill
informed. He only knows very surface things like, and follows orders without
knowing the depth and the scope of things. Because he really is not prepared for
what he’s seeing.
Jenny: No, no, no, no, no.
Kristin: And very scared, as evidenced by him holding up that damn chair against
his chest like a fool.
Jenny: Ha! Really good.
Kristin: Anyway. “Raise your hand if you’re invulnerable,” also, very funny. But then
the knife. This is a second sad face for Faith.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: ‘Cause it’s just like, nobody gives her anything. She really treasures this
knife. And the mayor is just like, “we’re going.” You know, snaps his fingers like
she’s a dog and she has to leave it and it sucks and I’m sad for her because I want
her to have a nice thing, you know?
Jenny: Umm, yes, I want her to have a nice deadly weapon.
Kristin: A nice, a knife thing. I want her to have a knife thing.


Jenny: So Willow recounting the whole situation to Buffy is pretty great.
Kristin: Ahh, it’s so good, let’s hear a little clip of it, actually.
[Clip from episode plays]
Willow: So Faith was like, “I’m gonna beat you up” and I’m all, “I’m not
afraid of you” and then she had the knife which was less fun. And and then
oh, I told her, “You made your choice, Buffy was your friend.”
Giles: Yes, this is fascinating but just to get back to the point…
Kristin: It’s really special, it’s very authentic. It’s exactly how I would tell a story to
a person, you know? I just identify with her excitement. You know who else is
excited?
Jenny: Who?
Kristin: Giles.
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: So excited—so excited when she hands him the pages.
Jenny: Ohhhhh! Notes!
Kristin: Right? [laughs] It’s like, oh my god! Christmas morning. And then Wesley
is a stupid idiot asshole. This is—my note is, “fuck you, Wesley.” This is when I was
like, oh, I don’t like him.
Jenny: [imitating Wesley] “Hmm, hope it was worth it, mmmm.”
Kristin: Yeah, like, ugh! Suck it, man.
Jenny: Yeah, he sucks. But hey, guess what?
Kristin: What?!
Jenny: Willow’s not going anywhere, she’s gonna go to UC Sunnydale.
Kristin: My note in all caps is, “Willow and Buffy 4eva.”


Jenny: Woooow.
Kristin: [laughs] It’s just really great. She looks so cute in her overalls and she’s
like, “I’m going to UC Sunnydale.” And Buffy’s gonna stay in Sunnydale and they’re
gonna be together. And it’s really special, because also, they just saved Willow and
she knows that. But then, to just put icing on this great cake, Willow’s like, “you
know what, it isn’t even about you.”
Jenny: I know, this is so Buffy to be like, “you can’t stay just for me.” And Willow’s
like, “Actually, bitch…”
Kristin: [laughs] But you know what, that’s the thing is that Willow—the reason
that Willow and Buffy are such good friends is ‘cause Willow isn’t like, “Actually,
bitch.” She’s like, [friendly] “No, actually…” She’s really like, “No, Buffy, listen, let
me tell you about things other than you.” You know?
Jenny: Ugh, I know.
Kristin: She’s just so patient and loving and knows that Buffy will someday
understand that not everything is about being the chosen one.
Jenny: And that’s all great and then this line happens…
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And the line is, “You look at something and you think you know exactly
what it is, and then you find out it’s something else entirely.” And what the fuck
does this line mean other than to set up the next scene that immediately follows? Is
it like, you think you see Willow getting into lots of schools and you know she’s
gonna go to Oxford or something but then—or like—what?
Kristin: [simultaneously] Right? But then you don’t? Or is it like you think that
Faith is gonna be a slayer pal but then...
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Throw this line in the trash.
Kristin: It’s very out of the thing—but before we go though, before we leave this
scene. I mean, I talked about Willow being like, “It’s not about you.” But I just
wanna give a minute for Willow here. Because she says, “you know, I wanna fight
evil, it’s worth doing. And I don’t think that you do it, Buffy, because you have to.
It’s because it’s a good fight.”
Jenny: Awwwww, best friends!


Kristin: And then Buffy says, “I kinda love you.”
Jenny: Ohhhhhh my god.
Kristin: And it’s just really great, it’s two social justice warriors coming together—
Jenny: Theirs is a beautiful friendship.
Kristin: To make change. And you know, we don’t have a jingle for Buffy and
Willow—
Jenny: Together.
Kristin: Together, so in the absence of that, let’s give Willow her jingle. But as we
listen to it, let’s in our hearts listen to it as their jingle right now.
Jenny: Wow.
[Willow jingle plays]
Who knows the square root of twelve hundred and twenty five?
Willow!
Who’s gentle of heart and nimble with a hard drive?
Willow!
Willow, Willow, Willow
Kristin: [sighs] so they go and they get mochas. Which is such a—you know how
sometimes things just really hit me in the nostalgia place?
Jenny: Oh sure, yeah.
Kristin: This really hit me in the nostalgia, because it just reminded me of being a
senior in high school or being a freshman in college and having friends and having a
kind of freedom that I don’t feel I have anymore. Life was just opening itself in
front of me and we could be like, let’s go to Wendy’s. You know, just like—
Jenny: Oh my god. Uh-huh.
Kristin: Let’s do a thing that’s just fun and that was it. You weren’t thinking like,
ahh, I shouldn’t do this thing but I’ll do it. You were just like, let’s do this thing.
Jenny: Yes.


Kristin: And it—I don’t know. It just made me nostalgic is all.
Jenny: I’m with that. Cordelia’s working in retail.
Kristin: Cordelia’s working in retail and…
Jenny: It’s hard to experience this as what the show wants us to experience it as.
Kristin: That’s exactly the note that I have—
Jenny: Like, I looked around for my violin…
Kristin: But it was playing, there was this dramatic music playing and—
Jenny: [dramatic] “And then…I had…a job!”
Kristin: Yeah. Okay, so this is probably gonna cause all sorts of chaos when I say
this. But Jenny and I have not watched Girls. We watched a few episodes and I
could not watch the show because I couldn’t get behind— the first thing in that
show is like, “Oh, no. Mom and dad took my money away and I’m a white girl with
rich parents and now they’re not supporting me, what’s gonna happen?” And listen,
I know that there’s more to it—I mean, Jesus, even bringing up Lena Dunham is
like an explosive—
Jenny: Yeah, good luck with our inbox.
Kristin: We’re not gonna dig into that. But just that plotline, I was like, I can’t
watch this. I can’t get emotionally invested in a plotline where somebody’s rich
parents took their money away from them. Unless it’s The L Word and it’s Helena.
Just kidding.
Jenny: Kristin!
Kristin: Deep cut for all The L Word listeners, watchers, you know what I’m saying.
Anyway, I just can’t, it’s very difficult for me to feel anything for—I mean, you
know? Like—
Jenny: Well, we don’t know what’s happening yet.
Kristin: We don’t.
Jenny: It could be…


Kristin: It could be what?
Jenny: It could be anything, I don’t know.
Kristin: Whatever. It just—
Jenny: She could have a life threatening illness for which the only way to slow it
down is to work in retail.
Kristin: Is the dress—? Oh. Is the sequin dress?
Jenny: Or it’s the dress!
Kristin: It’s a magic dress. Yeah, I guess we don’t know all the details but the
dramatic music behind this was like, oookay.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Like, what? I don’t know. So anyway, graveyard picnic!
Jenny: Okay, so this…scene! You know when you’re with your boyfriend and it’s not
the time of night when you’re gonna be killing things in the cemetery together, but
instead, you lay out your blanket and you cuddle up against a giant tombstone.
[Kristin laughing] And you’re talking about how [laughs] the evil mayor said a
bunch of shit and like, he doesn’t know what he’s talking about. Probably the only
lasting relationship he’s ever had has been with evil. Except Edna May who he
married in aught three, were you even listening! He was with her until the end.
Kristin: So was that— nineteen aught three...
Jenny: 1903.
Kristin: Right. I was like was it nineteen aught three or two thousand aught three?
Right, it’s literally 1999 so it was—
Jenny: And then Buffy’s like, he doesn’t even know anything about us. Except he
knows a lot of basic facts about how Angel can’t have one true moment of
happiness and Angel went to hell and then Angel’s back from hell. You know what I
mean?
Kristin: Yeah, well it’s called denial, my friend.
Jenny: Oh yeah, didn’t we start there at the beginning of the episode?


Kristin: Yes, yes, we did. So, full—
Jenny: A river runs through it and that river is de—
Kristin: [gasps] Brad Pitt?
Jenny: —nial.
Kristin: Is it also Brad Pitt?
Jenny: The Nile, no it’s just a joke about the Nile.
Kristin: Sorry, I just had a poster of A River Runs Through It on my— okay, you
wanna know something about me as we wind out of this episode? [laughs] I had a
Brad Pitt wall in my bedroom in high school.
Jenny: How big of a wall are we talkin’ here?
Kristin: It wasn’t a full size wall. I wanna say it was probably two feet wide, maybe
two and a half feet wide, but floor to ceiling—
Jenny: Wow.
Kristin: Was only Brad Pitt because I don’t know if you know this, but Brad Pitt is a
gateway to the lady lovin’.
Jenny: Ummmmmmm…
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: I’d like to ban the phrase “the lady lovin’” from this podcast moving
forward.
Kristin: [laughs] I’m just saying, yeah, it wasn’t phrased well, I also ban it.
Jenny: But yeah, Brad Pitt is the boy that you liked in high school because he had
long pretty hair and fine beautiful features and lovely skin.
Kristin: [simultaneously] Yes, and a pretty face. Yes, and a soft— you know he
would cry and whatever—
Jenny: Mmmmm-hm!


Kristin: So my centerpiece of the Brad Pitt was A River Runs Through It poster. And
then I had around it many, many, many pictures from magazines that I pulled out,
all of Brad Pitt. Some from Thelma and Louise. My least favorite one was—he went
through this phase where he bleached his hair bright, bright blonde and it was long
and bleach blonde. I didn’t like it but I had to fill the wall, so you know.
Jenny: Sure, sure, sure.
Kristin: Back in those days, you couldn’t really find shit on the internet and print it
out, so I was going through magazines to find my wallscape. Anyway, now you
know that I had a wall of Brad Pitt and that’s a great way to end this episode about
choices. Because you know what, I made a choice, Jenny.
Jenny: You sure did.
Kristin: And I stand by it. Brad Pitt is a hunk.
Jenny: Oh, you know, listen. Speaking of hunks, that reminds me. We still have
one final order of business to conduct.
Kristin: Mmmm, I know where you’re going.
Jenny: We have something to dole out.
Kristin: Mm-hm.
[Sexual Tension Award jingle plays]
Jenny: So, what do we say, the contenders are Willow and Faith—
Kristin: Yes, Willow and Faith versus me and Oz flipping over the cauldron.
Jenny: Woooow.
Kristin: I know where it’s going, okay, I know—I understand. I think that me and
Oz gave it a good show.
Jenny: No, you know, listen. I think—I mean, I know what the people want in
their—what they think they want.
Kristin: [laughs] Oh, wow, okay.


Jenny: Yeah, but I think even more than giving the sexual tension award to Faith
and Willow, I think the people want you to be happy. For you to be living your best
life and getting the most out of every moment. Therefore, as I was once paired with
Xander’s shirt, I think—I move, I—[Kristin laughs] the co-dictator—
Kristin: Co…dictator.
Jenny: Of this tiny island upon which we live, I wish to decree, if no one vetoes me
and the only person here to do that is you, so don’t do it.
Kristin: Okay, okay.
Jenny: If nobody vetoes me, I think it should go to you and Oz flipping over the
cauldron, I think you’ve earned it.
Kristin: Wooooooow, wooooooow, an upset. I’m not gonna veto you, Jenny,
because when you speak your mind, you really mean it, you know? I’m not
gonna—I don’t wanna get—
Jenny: Look, I’m a fucking red-blooded American woman, goddamnit! I want
Willow and Faith to spend more time together with knives and books, fine. [Kristin
laughs] But also, you’re my wife.
Kristin: Wow. Thank you.
Jenny: And I just want nice things for you.
Kristin: Thank you so much.
Jenny: You’re welcome.
Kristin: I will look for the trophy in the mail.
Jenny: Please do! [laughs]
Kristin: I can’t believe it after all this time, I won my very own sexual tension
award.
Jenny: Oh…my…god.
Kristin: [sighs] Thank you, thank you to Jenny, thank you to the academy.
Jenny: Mmmmmmm-hm.


Kristin: The academy of sexual tension.
Jenny: The academy of sexual…tension. Well, everyone—
Kristin: Yep, we did it.
Jenny: We sure did and by we, I mean, I’m Jenny Owen Youngs. And when I’m not
making this podcast with Kristin, I’m making hot, hot, hot, hot, hot jams. You can
hear some of them over at jennyowenyoungs.com/buffering. And you can always
give me a holler on twitter @jennyowenyoungs.
Kristin: Yes and I am Kristin Russo. You can find me on twitter @kristinnoeline
that’s k-r-i-s-t-i-n-n-o-e-l-i-n-e. And that is also how you can find my website,
kristinnoeline.com. And over there, you can learn about the work that I do with
LGBTQ communities and and their families and all the other sorts of bibs and bobs,
what do you call it?
Jenny: I think it’s “bits and bobs.” [laughs]
Kristin: Bits and bobs.
Jenny: If it has to be that, that’s what it is.
Kristin: [laughs] All of the other bits and bobs that I do when I’m not watching
Buffy.
Jenny: Buffering the Vampire Slayer is on twitter, instagram and facebook
@bufferingcast, and you can always email us at
bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin: You can and you can support us in a few ways. You can go over to iTunes
and rate and review us. So many of you have done that already and it’s really cool
because it helps people find the podcast. And so then you know, we all just get to
have more friends, really, at the end of the day. You can also support us on Patreon
by going to bufferingthevampireslayer.com. Just click on Patreon and you’ll see that
there are three different levels you can give at and you get all sorts of fun things.
We mentioned the Buffy watches. We’re also going to be doing some off-season
Buffy watches, there was a little rumor about us maybe doing a non-Buffy watch of
Bring it On.
Jenny: Mmmm!


Kristin: Which could be fun, while we’re off between Seasons 3 and 4.
Jenny: Or just watch of the super cut of Eliza Dushku’s scenes.
Kristin: Yes, Jenny just wants to watch Eliza Dushku’s scenes in Bring it On.
Jenny: That’d be fun.
Kristin: So we’ll see what happens. You also, at certain levels, get discounts in the
merch store, you get the songs in advance. There’s a whole bunch of fun stuff over
there. And speaking of merch, you can also support us by buying some patriarchy
smashing Buffy-themed apparel. Bufferingthevampireslayer.com, just click on shop.
And a reminder that the Randy for Giles pins, now in soft enamel, are back in stock!
Jenny: Hell yes. And just one last reminder, we still have a couple of lyric sheets
left for this month’s organization, which is of course the Brown Boi Project. You can
snag one of those for yourself by going to bufferingthevampireslayer.com and
clicking on the little bar at the top of the page that’s all like, hey, handwritten lyric
sheets, et cetera. [Kristin laughs] Okay, till next time!
Jenny and Kristin: Awoooooooooooooooooo!!
[Jenny performing “Choices” from the album “Songs from Season Three” by
Buffering the Vampire Slayer]

Hanging at the graveyard late last night
Slayin’ vamps with Angel and I’m feelin’ all right
You know I used to bring somebody else around here
But now she’s long gone and I never ever see her

I don’t know what I don’t know
I don’t know what I don’t know

The Mayor got a shipment of a big, black box


Unlatched, unlocked, by the name of Gavrok
Fulla demon spiders that are way too big
Far as Sunnydale mascots I preferred Herbert the pig

I don’t know what I don’t know
I don’t know what I don’t know

Breakin’ into City Hall we hit a snafu
But my boyfriend’s a detective and he doesn’t miss a clue
Willow she got kidnapped but found some first editions
Of step-by-step instructions for a mayor’s ascension

I don’t know what I don’t know
I don’t know what I don’t know

The cafeteria’s my favorite place to make a trade
But the Mayor thinks that me and Angel might not have it made
‘Cause we’re 226 years apart
And based on his experience that can be hard

I don’t know what I don’t know
I don’t know what I don’t know


