Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 2.03: School Hard

Jenny:​ Hey everybody, before we get started we just wanna remind you
that if you’re in the Los Angeles area, Kristin and I are gonna be doing our
very first live episode taping at the Nerdist showroom on February 2nd.
Kristin:​ Yes, February 2nd come and see us. We will also be joined by
special guests, Chris Farin and Brittany Nichols, who are really awesome and
are gonna sit with us for part of the episode. We’re gonna play a couple of
songs. And you can find out all about it and get your tickets over at
nerdmeltla.com.
Jenny​ If you are gonna come, don’t forget to watch Reptile Boy, season 2
episode 5, before you come so you’ll know what the heck we’re talking
about.
Kristin:​ Yeah, or don’t watch it and –
Jenny:​ Be pleasantly surprised.
Kristin:​ Exactly. [laughs]
Jenny:​ All right, here we go.
[THEME MUSIC]
Jenny:​ Hello and welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer, a podcast where
we’re watching and discussing every episode of ​Buffy the Vampire Slayer
one by one. I am Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin:​ And I am Kristin Russo, and today we are discussing season 2
episode 3, [sings] School Hard.
Jenny:​ School Hard was directed by John T. Kretchmer. The teleplay was by
David Greenwalt, and the story was by David Greenwalt and Joss Whedon. It
originally aired on September 29th, 1997.


Kristin:​ This is the one, according to IMDB, where “Buffy’s mother and
friends become trapped inside Sunnydale High School when a vampire
named Spike launches an attack against the slayer on parent teacher night.”
Jenny:​ Yay!
Kristin:​ Ahoo! Oh man oh man oh man oh man oh man oh man oh man
[sings] Oh man oh man oh man!
Jenny:​ It’s pretty exciting.
Kristin:​ Holy shit!
Jenny:​ Spike is here.
Kristin:​ Spike is – oh, okay, well –
Jenny:​ Drusilla’s here –
Kristin:​ Just –
Jenny:​ Okay, sorry sorry sorry.
Kristin:​ You gotta take it one at a time otherwise my head is gonna pop off
of my shoulders.
Jenny:​ Cool.
Kristin:​ [sigh] I feel like we need to talk about where we just were.
Jenny:​ Where we ​just ​were?
Kristin:​ Where we just were. Today is – we’re recording this on the 21st of
January. Doesn’t go up then so… this is a message from the past
Jenny:​ A time capsule!
Kristin:​ Umm. Yesterday was, um... the ascension


Jenny:​ [nervous laugh]
Kristin:​ [laughs] And today, Jenny and I marched in Los Angeles with
women’s march here in LA. And I just wanna say... holy shit.
Jenny:​ It was real serious.
Kristin:​ Like, we get to talk about Spike and Drusilla, and we just left a
march where – who knows how many people were there. I’ve seen reports
of 200,000. I’ve seen reports of 750,000. It felt like –
Jenny:​ It felt like 750,000.
Kristin:​ It felt like 750,000. I’ve never ever seen so many people in my
entire life. It was incredible. It was so incredible.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ So we are all all sorts of –
Jenny:​ Fired up!
Kristin:​ Fired up today and if you marched, hell yes. And if you did not or
could not march, we’re here to report that it was – it was the biggest thing
in the entire universe. I mean, there were –
Jenny:​ It was massive.
Kristin:​ There were so many people that I very nearly had an anxiety
attack.
Jenny: ​[laughs] Yes
Kristin:​ But it was very – I mean, it’s good!
Jenny:​ There were so many people that ​I​ very nearly had an anxiety attack.
Kristin:​ Yeah!


Jenny:​ Which is a higher threshold.
Kristin:​ That was upsetting to me because I turned around in a panic, and
Jenny ​was in a panic and normally she’s like the rock of us in a situation like
that. So I was like, oh no, oh no, oh no.
Jenny:​ But it was a brief panic.
Kristin:​ It was a brief panic.
Jenny:​ Brought on by very specific set of circumstances.
Kristin:​ Yeah, we somehow wound up in the very center of the march.
Which wasn’t really able to really be a march because –
Jenny:​ There were so many people –
Kristin:​ The people –
Jenny:​ That the route was completely full!
Kristin:​ Of people just trying to move, which is like, cool until you’re like,
wow. People are kind of packed in here, and we can’t move and if anybody
starts to panic – but guess what, guys? It was fine.
Jenny:​ It all worked out.
Kristin:​ It all worked out, and it was really massive and really, really
moving. And so yeah, what I wanted to say, the completion of that thought
was if you did not or could not march last week slash today, [laughs] we’re
here to tell you that there’s, I don’t know, hundreds of thousands, millions of
fucking people who came out today to say they will stand up for your rights,
and for my rights, and for Jenny’s rights.
Jenny:​ Pretty exciting.
Kristin:​ Really exciting. Back to the initial excitement.
Jenny:​ Right right right right.


Kristin:​ Spike and Drusilla, wee wee wee!
Jenny:​ [laughs] Oui oui oui?
Kristin:​ All the way home.
Jenny:​ Like French oui? Like yes yes yes?
Kristin:​ Oh no, I just meant like weeee.
Jenny:​ Wee wee wee all the way home, okay.
Kristin:​ Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Jenny:​ Got it.
Kristin:​ Um, but before we get there –
Jenny:​ First!
Kristin:​ We get to we get a big earful from Principal Snyder.
Jenny:​ He’s got a lot to say.
Kristin:​ Oh my gosh, he really does.
Jenny:​ He has found who he perceives to be Buffy’s equal in terms of
behavior, morals, ethics.
Kristin:​ Doesn’t really make any sense since this other student, Sheila, has
stabbed her horticulture teacher. Which by the way, horticulture class, huh?
Jenny:​ But also, ​stabbed​? Why is she still in school?
Kristin:​ They have a very confusing set of ethics in Sunnydale High School.
Jenny:​ It is tough to –


Kristin:​ Right?
Jenny:​ Figure out what’s what.
Kristin:​ Because the only reason that we can put together that Snyder
hates Buffy so much is because of shit she did before she even got to the
school. Although, I will say this, jumping ahead we kind of – we learn
something very important in this episode.
Jenny:​ At the very end.
Kristin:​ At the very end, after all is said and done and the cops are there,
which is also –
Jenny:​ For the first time!
Kristin:​ What, yeah, cops are there and Snyder comes out and is talking to
the sheriff or whatever, and the sheriff’s like, “well, what do you want me to
report, PCP gang?” and Principal Snyder’s like, “well, what else are you
gonna say? The truth?” And the cop is like, “you’re right, PCP gang.” So...
we know that there’s a knowledge –
Jenny:​ That Snyder’s tapped into some amount of the dark underbelly –
Kristin:​ Right.
Jenny:​ Of Sunnydale
Kristin:​ Which is, you know, I was gonna say maybe that’s why he doesn’t
like Buffy, ‘cause maybe he perceives her as being tied into the dark
underbelly and doesn’t quite understand the up – the workings of the dark
underbelly.
Jenny:​ Right, right, right. Could be, could be.
Kristin:​ But regardless, we meet Sheila.
Jenny:​ Ooh god, and then we almost immediately find out that Sheila’s
dating someone named Meat Pie.


Kristin:​ Meat Pie!
Jenny:​ Meat Pie.
Kristin:​ I’m gonna give a standing ovation – not really, because it’s hard to
get up with this microphone in front of me – to the writer who decided that
the boyfriend’s name would be Meat Pie.
Jenny:​ [laughs] Seriously. Also, god, Xander’s messenger bag is so big.
Kristin:​ It’s so 90s!
Jenny:​ It’s like – I also had a messenger bag the same size but it’s really
hard to not look at that and also everything else that he wears –
Kristin:​ And think about how oversized it is.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ Listen, let’s skip over Xander for a second and talk about Willow. I
screamed Willow’s name as though I was seeing her for the first time when I
saw her in this scene, where she comes out and she’s in the overalls with
the braids in her hair.
Jenny:​ Mmhm.
Kristin:​ And I think she’s wearing like some lipstick and some eyeliner.
Jenny:​ Woooo!
Kristin:​ She is like, Willow, like –
Jenny:​ Ladies night!
Kristin:​ I dunno, I just, like, I know – right, we’ve seen the series, Jenny
four hundred and eight times, me, once. And I know Willow, I love Willow,
and honestly, this is like the first time I feel like I got to see the Willow that
I came to love.


Jenny:​ Right.
Kristin:​ Right?
Jenny:​ Very recognizable.
Kristin:​ Which make sense, since I only started in season two last time so
that actually is the Willow that I first came to know and love. But she just –
she was looking like, you know, she was looking like Willow.
Jenny:​ [laughs]
Kristin:​ I was really excited about it.
Jenny: ​We also have this great moment where Willow and Buffy are talking
to Xander and Xander says the thing that you never say.
Kristin:​ Yes. I wanna talk about this.
Jenny: ​“As long as nothing really bad happens.” This is – I’m Xander in this
equation.
Kristin:​ You are, you do this all the time. And I wonder – ‘cause I have
huge superstitions around saying stuff like that. Anything like that. Like
when I used to watch football all the time, and the announcer would be like,
“well, he’s made this 47 yard kick at least 12 times, it’s gonna be an easy
one for him.” I would be like, “nooooo!”
Jenny: ​“Why’d you say that?”
Kristin:​ Yeah. [laughs] Also, you guys, I don’t watch a lot of football so I’m
not sure about 47 – [Jenny laughs] I think that’s a hard kick.
Jenny: ​That was great, that was great.
Kristin:​ That’s a far – I think that’s far to being –
Jenny: ​It sounded like real numbers.


Kristin:​ But I don’t know, you can let me know. [laughs] But anyway, I feel
the same way that Buffy and Willow feel, total jinx. It was a total jinx, you
know?
Jenny: ​And it really was.
Kristin:​ And it was.
Jenny: ​‘Cause something bad does happen as we see –
Kristin:​ [dramatic inhale]
Jenny: ​In the next cut.
Kristin:​ Listen, something great happens in the next cut. I mean, it’s bad
overall, but holy shit. I forgot – I think ‘cause i didn’t have any emotional
attachment to Spike –
Jenny: ​Right, the first time you saw it.
Kristin:​ When I saw this – right. What a fucking entrance!
Jenny: ​Just blasting through the Welcome to Sunnydale sign.
Kristin:​ Ohhh!
Jenny: ​In his old black beat up car.
Kristin:​ And that – and his boots come out.
Jenny: ​Yup.
Kristin:​ Like, hit the floor and then his cigarette –
Jenny: ​Lights his cigarette.
Kristin:​ Takes a big drag.


Jenny: ​All like, “Home sweet home.” [Kristin laughs]​ ​And credits!
Kristin:​ And credits.
Jenny: ​Very satisfying.
Kristin:​ And then, okay. After the credits, we go to the, like, lair. I’m just
gonna call it a lair forever, even though it’s not the original lair. We go to the
warehouse where they all hang out now, and I hate the Anointed One, I
think.
Jenny: ​The worst.
Kristin:​ I mean, the worst but like, I just don’t feel he runs a good business.
You know? It’s like, some vampire walks in, is like, “I could kill the slayer.”
And he’s like, “fine. You do it.” And then some other guy walks in and is like,
“but I can kill the slayer!” [Jenny laughs] And the Anointed one is like,
“you’re right, ​you ​do it.” I just feel like he has no reasoning and he trusts
everyone and it’s very weird.
Jenny: ​What would you suggest, that he have them fight to the death and
the winner kills the slayer?
Kristin:​ I mean –
Jenny: ​Because you’re just reducing the numbers of your cult at that point.
Kristin:​ I think I would at least suggest he ask them a couple of questions,
you know what I mean?
Jenny: ​Right, right.
Kristin:​ What’s your history? [laughs]
Jenny: ​Well, I think Spike makes an unfortunate bunch of statements.
Kristin:​ [annoyed sound]
Jenny: ​Sorry.


Kristin:​ Listen –
Jenny: ​Spike says some problematic things in this episode.
Kristin:​ Spike says – let’s just – let’s just tackle this.
Jenny: ​Let’s just talk about it right away.
Kristin:​ Let’s just get it up at the front because –
Jenny: ​He says nancy boy.
Kristin:​ Hold on a second. I wanna say that, you know, Jenny and I are
very big Spike fans. We love Spike. And so Spike, like Cordelia, is likely
going to get a jingle.
Jenny: ​But ​not ​for this episode!
Kristin:​ No! No, we were all ready to write it, and then we watched this
episode and I was like, okay, well, you know what, you gotta earn your
jingle, Spike.
Jenny: ​Yeah, you can’t just run around saying “nancy boy.”
Kristin:​ “Nancy boy” –
Jenny: ​And “Uncle Tom.”
Kristin:​ And “Uncle Tom.”
Jenny: ​Those are – no.
Kristin:​ And you know, yeah, that’s the thing. I think they’re just “no” all
around. Like, I see how perhaps one might say like, well, we’re trying to
frame a character, and Spike is coming in as the big bad, right? I mean, he
is the big bad and – but I think maybe you could make a person the big bad
without giving them these lines that are really problematic.


Jenny: ​Mmhm.
Kristin:​ So calling out Spike on “nancy boy.” Super calling out Spike on
“Uncle Tom.” Also –
Jenny: ​And als, “the biggest wrinklies”? [Kristin laughs]​ ​What a bummer.
Kristin:​ Biggest wrinklies, and also there’s a moment where he – when
Joyce – and we will talk about this more when we get there, but when Joyce
comes to the rescue, where he leaves and he says “women.”
Jenny: ​Oh, I liked that. [laughter] You didn’t like that?
Kristin:​ I liked it because ​you ​say it all the time. But you being a woman, I
think, have more claim –
Jenny: ​Right, there’s an​ ​inherent irony.
Kristin:​ Right.
Jenny: ​Well, I think I – yeah, there’s probably no good argument for this.
Kristin:​ No, I mean, it’s certainly less – I find it less problematic –
Jenny: ​Right, right.
Kristin:​ Than the others, but still, a list of shame for Spike here.
Jenny: ​But there is like – there is something staying with you at that
moment, a little bit later in the episode about like, you know, him going toe
to toe with Buffy, and you know she’s really not – I mean, she’s like,
delivering the goods, you know?
Kristin:​ Right. [laughs]
Jenny: ​And giving him a good match, and like, he is about to bash her face
in or whatever with that log – log? 2x4!
Kristin:​ Yeah.


Jenny: ​And then Joyce cracks him over the head. There’s something about
like, he’s been like, “ugh, nancy boy this and the biggest wrinklies that” and
then like, Buffy and her mom are like, “oh yeah?”
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny: ​“Suck on this!”
Kristin:​ Yeah. [laughs]
Jenny: ​And there’s something really satisfying about his seeing him like,
beaten and his retort just being like, “women.”
Kristin:​ Well, and it’s interesting because – and we’re really – now we’re
really jumping all over ‘cause we’re jumping to the end. But I do wanna just
say that it’s interesting to me in that scene that he leaves. Because he’s not
outnumbered, I mean – at all.
Jenny: ​No and he’s not even like, outmanned, really.
Kristin:​ No.
Jenny: ​Like, out muscled.
Kristin:​ Right, exactly. I mean, he could’ve kept fighting, but I think – and
what we really learn is that he’s like, oh, this is a different situation. This
slayer has other people on her team.
Jenny: ​Whereas we’ve – historically, the slayer has been a very sort of
solitary being.
Kristin:​ Right, right.
Jenny: ​Without worldly ties.
Kristin:​ So that’s really interesting and ties into all the things we’ve been
saying about the Scoobies from the beginning. That you know, they really
support her in ways that I don’t think a slayer has been supported in the


history of slayerdom.
Jenny: ​For real.
Kristin:​ Right?
Jenny: ​So, leaping backwards now –
Kristin:​ Yes, let’s get back to –
Jenny: ​Back the beginning of the episode.
Kristin:​ Spike and the – you know, the Anointed One is like, “you do it,
okay, you do it.” So Spike is now gonna kill Buffy. Spike has a line I enjoy
where he talks about being at Woodstock. Speaking of gatherings –
Jenny: ​Oh my god.
Kristin:​ Large gatherings of people.
Jenny: ​Yeah, yeah!
Kristin:​ Luckily at today’s large gathering, Jenny and I were spared from
the vampires –
Jenny: ​Yeah.
Kristin:​ Who were in attendance.
Jenny: ​We were not fed upon.
Kristin:​ We were not. But he talks about he fed on “a flower person” who
was apparently, you know, tripping on acid ‘cause then Spike, apart from
feeding, also gets the effects of the drug, which I thought was funny.
Jenny: ​And what I do love about the like, swaggy sort of machismo part of
this character introduction is that almost immediately, we see the other side
of Spike’s coin, which is Drusilla wanders into the room. And before she
speaks, he like, senses her. And as he turns to reply to her, his face


immediately changes back to his human face. Which is, like, so tender.
[Kristin laughs]​ ​I love it! Their creepy love is so awesome!
Kristin:​ Yeah, their creepy love is pretty awesome. Also I just screamed –
the entire episode, I just screamed.
Jenny: ​She really did.
Kristin:​ Because I just – [laughs] I’m so excited! I’m so excited that Spike
is here, and I’m so excited about Drusilla, whose first line is [imitating
Drusilla’s voice] “look at all the people.” [laughter] Her stupid little voice! I
love it so much and –
Jenny: ​It’s so good.
Kristin:​ She goes into this monologue where she’s like [imitating Drusilla’s
voice], “do you like daisies?”
Jenny: ​Yeah, yeah!
Kristin:​ [imitating Drusilla’s voice] “I plant them but they die. Everything I
plant withers and dies.”
Jenny: ​Oh dear.
Kristin:​ Oh my god.
Jenny: ​And then she scratches Spike’s cheek till it bleeds, and then she licks
the blood. Which tells us that vampires have blood, I guess, running through
their veins.
Kristin:​ Mmmmm.
Jenny: ​Even though it’s room temperature. Not really sure if it’s just the
same blood? We’re not really clear on the sort of, like, biology of vampires.
When they suck blood, does it just go into their stomachs or does it go into
their veins?
Kristin:​ Veins.


Jenny: ​Or like, what’s going on there?
Kristin:​ It would seem to make sense, even though they call it feeding, that
when they’re feeding the blood is going into their veins ‘cause it’s keeping
them – like, I can’t –
Jenny: ​Yeah...
Kristin:​ Which would mean that vampires wouldn’t go to the bathroom. Do
we ever see a vampire in a bathroom?
Jenny: ​I think we –
Kristin:​ We do?
Jenny: ​Do, but I can – I couldn’t say for sure without a cursory Google.
Kristin:​ Of course, of course. Well, and we don’t wanna spoil. I mean, you
know, let them have their big bathroom vampire reveal.
Jenny: ​Right, right.
Kristin:​ In real time if it does happen.
Jenny: ​But also –
Kristin:​ Yes.
Jenny: ​Regardless of, like, whether the blood they suck is going into their
veins or not, is the blood that one might lick off of Spike’s open wound
sustenance? Is it a sustaining blood for a vampire?
Kristin:​ No, I can’t imagine –
Jenny: ​Or that was just, like, something romantic.
Kristin:​ I think it was just sexy. Yeah, I think it was a sexy thing, for sure. I
think – [laughs]


Jenny: ​Wow.
Kristin:​ I think that’s what was happening there. So now we’ve met Drusilla
and Spike.
Jenny: ​Yay!
Kristin:​ Then we cut to Buffy’s room. There’s this scene, right, where she is
mad about her conditioner, and her mom is like, “are you ruining school?”
And she’s like, “no,” and her mom’s like, “I don’t know. You better not
disappoint me.”
Jenny: ​And Buffy’s like, “I’m under a lot of pressure.” Joyce is like, “wait til
you get a job!”
Kristin:​ Right. And then –
Jenny:​ And then – [laughs]
Kristin:​ And this is what my note is and why I had to talk about this scene.
Because then Buffy pulls out – now, we’ve already seen her go into her
closet and take out a chest that’s, like, so big of communion wafers and
tools and holy water.
Jenny: ​Yeah, stakes and crosses.
Kristin:​ Now she just opens up a drawer in another part of her room that
has – no, it’s not hidden at all. It’s not like she removes a book from on the
top of it. [laughs] It’s just like a whole bunch of shit, stakes and a bible and
I don’t even know.
Jenny: ​Brass knuckles, but like, spiked brass knuckles.
Kristin:​ Oooh, spiked, you say?
Jenny: ​I do say.
Kristin:​ And then for some reason, the writer had to hit us over the head


with the fact – I think we all got the fact that she does have a job.
Jenny: ​She was like, “I do have a job.” But then, out loud, she was like, “I
do have a job.”
Kristin:​ [laughs] So thank you for that.
Jenny: ​So then we’re at school. They’re making a banner.
Kristin:​ And Willow’s wearing another Scooby shirt.
Jenny: ​Oh my god.
Kristin:​ Second one we’ve seen. [singing] Second one we’ve seen.
Jenny: ​And Jenny Calendar and Rupert are having a conversation about –
Kristin:​ Rupert! You called him Rupert ‘cause she calls him Rupert?
Jenny: ​Yeah, she’s all like, “Rupert, you have got to read something
published after 1066.” Sick burn, Jenny Calendar!
Kristin:​ [laughs] And he’s all like, “yes, Jenny was surfing.” Like –
Jenny: ​Surfing on her computer.
Kristin:​ Surfing on her computer. Not surfing the net, surfing on her
computer.
Jenny: ​Just think about that for a minute.
Kristin:​ I wanna talk about something here and I don’t know – and maybe
you all will let me know. But I don’t know what the relevance is here or if it
was done on purpose, but in this scene where – ‘cause Buffy’s making the
sign, right. She’s been told she has to plan the PTA meeting, that’s the deal.
She has to plan the PTA meeting, her and what’s her face, what’s her name?
Jenny: ​Sheila.


Kristin:​ Sheila! Her and Sheila have to plan this PTA thing, and if they don’t
do a good job, somebody’s getting expelled or whatever. That’s the plot.
Jenny:​ [sighs] Lord.
Kristin:​ But so, she’s making this sign, and she has a red – like, she’s using
red paint and there’s a red streak down the same cheek that Spike’s red
streak was down when Drusilla cut it.
Jenny: ​Yes. What does it all mean?
Kristin:​ It just seems like it’s too... I mean, it’s identical, nearly, you know?
It just seems like it’s too blatant to not have been done intentionally. But I
can’t quite figure out what the intentionality is, so I’ll leave it to you. Let me
know, let me know all your thoughts.
Jenny: ​Yes, please.
Kristin:​ Then we go –
Jenny: ​To the Bronze.
Kristin:​ To the Bronze.
Jenny: ​So many highlights. First of all, Xander dancing. Oh god.
Kristin:​ Yeah, I – “Xander dancing LOL” is my full note.
Jenny: ​Yeah, yeah.
Kristin:​ Yeah, I enjoyed this scene. This – that moment of seeing Xander
dance.
Jenny: ​Yeah, it was great.
Kristin:​ It’s great. He’s really getting into it. He’s really finding his groove.
Jenny: ​Yeah, I’m sure that’s how I danced when I was a junior in high
school.


Kristin:​ Mm-hmm.
Jenny: ​Totally. Also, another highlight in this scene. Go back and check out
the drummer’s right wrist. The wrist that he’s holding his hi hat stick in. It’s
almost as if he were balancing the drumstick in the middle of his palm and
then just sort of closed his fingers around it, like a venus fly trap and then
held it like that –
Kristin:​ Yeah, it’s very odd,
Jenny: ​To play the drums. What a delight.
Kristin:​ I love this scene when we see Spike watching her.
Jenny: ​When he’s a stalkin’.
Kristin:​ Yeah, the Spike-stalks-Buffy scene. I just – I loved it. I felt like the
mood was so perfectly creepy and stalkery, and like, the shots of Buffy, the
way that she was framed in the center dancing and he was all in shadow.
Jenny: ​Mmhm.
Kristin:​ I just loved it! I loved the composition of it all, and I really loved
what it, like, informs us about Spike, right? Because he – you know, he gets
a bad wrap in this episode from the other vampires and stuff for rushing into
things. But really, what we see in this scene is him, like, casing this. He not
only is, like, casing her out in the Bronze, but then he has another vampire
go out so he can watch how she fights. He’s really – like, in the beginning,
he’s pretty meticulous about this. And then I think he’s like, “I can take her.”
You know, so then it’s like, why wait?
Jenny: ​Yeah... you know what I really like about this?
Kristin:​ What?
Jenny: ​After Spike goes up to those two people who are standing near the
Scoobies and is like, “where’s the phone? I need to call the police. Some guy
is trying to bite somebody outside.”


Kristin:​ Right.
Jenny: ​And then Buffy dashes into the alley, and of course, the two people
who he says that to don’t tell him anything about where the phone is. They
just sort of look at him and then keep dancing.
Kristin:​ Yeah, they’re like, another person’s getting bit? Oy yoy.
Jenny: ​Right, right. So Buffy’s, like, out there fighting that vampire, and is
like, “a stake would be nice.” Xander runs back into the Bronze and, points
for continuity, the first thing he pulls out of Buffy’s purse is her red butterfly
yo-yo from last week.
Kristin:​ Oh, wow! I didn’t notice that
Jenny: ​This second thing he pulls out... is a tampon. [Kristin laughs]​ ​Which
he – as soon as he recognizes what it is, he flings it away from him as
though it were a large spider. And I think he even shakes his hand to get the
tampon cooties off.
Kristin:​ [laughs] Which – not to take us back to the march today, but one of
my favorite signs at the march just said, “he hates periods.” That was the
whole sign. [Jenny laughs] “He hates periods.” Were they talking about...
Jenny: ​Punctuation? Blood?
Kristin:​ I just meant, were they referring to our president or were they
referring to Xander?
Jenny: ​Oooh, good question.​ ​I think Xander, it’s safe to say this point, just
fears periods.
Kristin:​ Oh and lord, I did not mean that as a comparison between the two.
Jenny: ​No, no, no, no, no.
Kristin:​ I mean, I have some problems with Xander, but I would never –


Jenny: ​But it’s not like –
Kristin:​ I would never. It would not come – not even – no
Jenny: ​No but he does an ama – Nick Brendan does an amazing job of –
that, like, physical acting.
Kristin:​ Yeah.
Jenny: ​I really liked that. That’s probably what I did with tampons when I
was in high school, am I Xander?
Kristin:​ Ohh. Do we have to investigate this further?
Jenny: ​No, definitely, let’s not.
Kristin:​ High school you.
Jenny: ​Just trust me that I’m not. But –
Kristin:​ [laughs] You sound a little guilty but –
Jenny: ​Well, I don’t identify with his, like, extremely unfavorable attributes
but some of his less unfavorable... attributes I’m into.
Kristin:​ Right.
Jenny: ​I see myself. Scared of a tampon and so on. Okay!
Kristin:​ [laughs] So then we’re –
Jenny: ​And Spike’s all like, “Saturday. I’m gonna kill you. Blahhh!”
Kristin:​ Right, and then we go to commercial break. [laughs]
Jenny: ​Right.
Kristin:​ Oh my god, and then – [laughs] I don’t know exactly where we
come back, but the first thing that I noted was that Sheila is walking down


the alley. Now –
Jenny: ​One of Sunnydale’s many, many creepy back alleys.
Kristin: ​Of course. Oh my gosh, wait, wait, wait. We just talked about a sign
that said “he hates periods” and we didn’t say –
Jenny: ​[gasps]
Jenny and Kristin: ​The Patriarchy!
Jenny: ​Sorry.
Kristin: ​I know we would have had more opportunities to get there but just
– that was an important one. So anyhow, Sheila – who, I think, this actress
or the director, I don’t know, but somebody’s taken a page out of Ally
Sheedy’s book from the Breakfast Club here.
Jenny: ​Mm-hmm.
Kristin: ​Not nailing it, in my humble opinion, but I just felt a lot of overlap
between their character traits and the way they spoke and whatever, you
know?
Jenny: ​Right, right.
Kristin: ​But so, you know, off Sheila goes and she’s walking with two guys
and she says like, something about a Cadillac –
Jenny:​ “Do you really have a Cadillac?”
Kristin: ​And then, “because I’m just crazy about a Cad.”
Jenny:​ Who has ever called a Cadillac a Cad, number one.
Kristin: ​Sheila, just Sheila.
Jenny: ​“Just crazy about a Caaad.”


Kristin: ​So then, right, and then Sheila – whatever, who cares? I don’t care.
Listen, let me tell you a secret. I do not care about Sheila.
Jenny: ​Me neither.
Kristin: ​I don’t know if I was supposed to but I never cared about her, not
for one minute. [laughter] So whatever, let’s – can we please talk about the
library where –
Jenny: ​Oh god, okay, so they’re talking about Spike. And Giles is like, “huh,
he’s not as old as Angel. Oh dear, he’s bad. He’s very, very bad.”
Kristin​: And then, from out of nowhere comes Angel: “he’s worse.”
Jenny: ​Yeah.
Kristin: ​Or whatever he says.
Jenny: ​And he’s got his neck stretched out and down to make his head –
Kristin: ​Which reminded me of last week, being in here with Cameron who
wondered, can Angel fly?
Jenny: ​Yeah. ‘Cause maybe, yeah.
Kristin: ​Maybe yeah, like maybe –
Jenny: ​We don’t know he can’t.
Kristin: ​He just – he’s always appearing so quietly, which is noted in the
show. I mean, Xander –
Jenny: ​Oh yeah, suggests putting a bell on Angel, great idea.
Kristin: ​Great idea.​ ​I really think we should all employ that, we’re always
startled by Angel. Oh God, and we also meet Miss Edith. We meet Miss
Edith.​ ​[Jenny laughs]​ ​Did I skip? Did you have more to say about that
scene?


Jenny: ​No, no, no – Willow’s got that great “why do they call it a mace?”
moment.
Kristin: ​Ohh!
Jenny: ​That was the last thing I had to say about the library.
Kristin: ​That is a great moment. Well, and that’s a funny – I mean, Willow
is calculating how many –
Jenny: ​Dates Angel might have gone on in the last 200 years.
Kristin: ​Even if he only went on two dates per year.
Jenny: ​Yep.
Kristin: ​Ah, I love Willow. But right, then of course –
Jenny: ​Back at the Anointed warehouse.
Kristin: ​Back at the Anointed warehouse, we see that Drusilla not only is
Drusilla in all the ways we’ve already learned, but that she has a doll
collection. And one of her dolls, Miss Edith, has misbehaved and must turn
around and face the wall. [laughter] Why? Why do I love her so much?
Juliet? Is it Juliet Landau?
Jenny: ​Landau, yeah. She’s so great.
Kristin: ​I’m really hopeful that we can have her on the show with us,
because she is phenomenal. She’s phenomenal!
Jenny: ​Yeah, I mean, we’re just – we just met her and James Marsters
playing Spike and like, just in one episode, they leave such a detailed and
heavy footprint.
Kristin: ​Well, and I – and you know, you all can correct me if I’m wrong on
this because I just did see it written somewhere, I did not source check this.
But I saw in a couple of places, it said that the original character arc for
Spike and Drusilla was two episodes. And that –


Jenny: ​Yeah, I’ve read that also, that they were only supposed to be there
for a sec.
Kristin: ​Well, and we see what happens, right.
Jenny: ​Yeah and they were just amazing.
Kristin: ​They’re incredible. Yeah, I mean, wow.
Jenny: ​[sighs] I wrote down “this is the greatest romance in the entire Buffy
universe.”
Kristin: ​You think Spike and Drusilla have the greatest – whoa, wow wow
wow wow wow wow!
Jenny: ​I at least thought it while I was watching this episode.
Kristin: ​Wow.
Jenny: ​I was like, holy shit, this is so good.
Kristin: ​Oh wow, oh wow, oh wow. What a thing to say. [Jenny laughs]
There are so many romances.
Jenny: ​Right right right. And there are – listen, I’m not saying –
Kristin: ​No, I’m not even contesting it. I’m – I actually think it could be a
valid pick but –
Jenny: ​I don’t believe in favorites and I don’t believe in bests, is that –
Kristin: ​That’s fair but –
Jenny: ​Can you hear me?
Kristin: ​I can hear you and – but I agree –
Jenny: ​But I think this one is great!


Kristin: ​It is phenomenal, it is phenomenal. If you’re watching along with us
for the first time, I am –
Jenny: ​Buckle up!
Kristin: ​Buckle up and I am so jealous of you, I really, truly am. Although I
forget a lot, so it is –
Jenny: ​Yeah, you could be jealous of yourself, a little bit.
Kristin: ​It really felt like I was watching this for the first time. I think ‘cause
it’s the first time I’m watching it with a love for the characters already.
Jenny: ​Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: ​Which is really special.
Jenny: ​Also, I just want to say when we first cut to the Anointed
warehouse, you hear in the background a bunch of the vampires doing some
St. Vigeous chanting.
Kristin: ​Right.
Jenny: ​And what I want to say about this is, Kristin was raised Catholic.
Sometimes at Christmas we go to Catholic church.​ ​[Kristin laughs] And
there’s this like sup – I have many feelings about going to church but one
thing that I really love about it is the sick, like, fourths and fifths chanty
Gregorian vibes, where the priest will be like [sings] “na na na na na na and
then he does some stuff and faaaa-” [Kristin laughs] And then the whole
congregation goes [sings] “the mystery of faith.” And it’s super sick. That’s
my jingle, that’s my jam! The mystery of faith, absolutely! And the vampires
chanting to St. Vigeous sounds bery Catholic or very Gregorian or
something.
Kristin: ​Yeah, referred to as the patron saint of vampires, which I enjoyed. I
looked it up just in case there was a St. Vigeous, but I could not find a – I
think it is a created saint.


Jenny: ​Yes, I think you are right.
Kristin: ​I mean, I knew – well, I didn’t know. I imagined that if there was a
St. Vigeous, he was not – he or she, do we know the gender of St. Vigeous?
I don’t think we do.
Jenny: ​I think they say he.
Kristin: ​Oh, they do. Damnit. [whispers] The patriarchy.​ ​[Jenny laughs]​ ​But
I thought maybe it was pulled from something, you know, like there was a
St. Vigeous and maybe –
Jenny:​ Right, perhaps his chapters were deleted –
Kristin: ​Mmm!
Jenny: ​In the last-somewhere in the last two thousand years. I don’t know
if there was one opportunity to delete one thing out of the original text of
the Bible in the last –
Kristin: ​It would have been the patron saint of vampires.
Jenny: ​Yep.
Kristin: ​I would like to just give a shout out to Spike’s – what I refer to in
my notes as “Spike’s duster sexy move.”
Jenny: ​Oh my god, where he whips it over his hip?
Kristin: ​Yeah and I like – I don’t know, I can’t know what actually happened
in that scene if that was planned or not.
Jenny: ​I think it was an accident
Kristin: ​Right? ‘Cause it seems like he gets caught in the jacket –
Jenny: ​Yeah and then he just whips it over, very sexily.
Kristin: ​Yeah, he’s like, “I know, I’ll fix this scene. We won’t even have to


do another take.”
Jenny: ​Ugh!
Kristin: ​“I’ll just sexily whip it.”
Jenny: ​What a dreamboat! Nailing it!
Kristin: ​Yeah, totally nailing it. Speaking of dreamboats who totally nail it,
we cut back to the library and finally, Cordelia is here!​ ​[Jenny laughs]​ ​We
had to wait all the way until act two for Cordelia, this episode.
Jenny: ​Yeah, yeah. Just in time to slide a little switchblade in between
Xander’s ribs.
Kristin: ​Right, right. Also, she said here that she has to get her legs waxed?
Jenny:​ She actually says she has to get her [emphasizing the ey sound]
“legs” waxed
Kristin: ​“Legs”?
Jenny: ​She has a “leg” wax.
Kristin: ​Wow.
Jenny: ​Just a hot tip.
Kristin: ​But what I noticed is that it seems like – and I didn’t really
thoroughly investigate, but it seems like she’s just wearing a dress with like,
regular shoes and not stockings or tights or anything?
Jenny: ​So how often does she get her legs waxed?
Kristin: ​Well, you can’t – I don’t get – I have never gotten waxed in my life.
I am not a waxer. But from what I understand, you have to do some
grow-out in order to wax
Jenny: ​Ohhh.


Kristin: ​You can’t wax stubble because the wax won’t hold the hair. And so I
was a little confused about the fact – which probably is believable as a line
‘cause probably Cordelia was lying. But –
Jenny: ​[laughs] Right.
Kristin: ​But you know, I just –
Jenny: ​“I’d be there myself if –”
Kristin: ​If I didn’t have a leg wax and then I was like, but you don’t even –
how would – okay. [laughter] Also, Cordelia is wearing a fucking banana clip
in her hair.
Jenny: ​Oh, that’s just your favorite, you love a banana clip.
Kristin: ​Did you – you never had a banana clip, did you?
Jenny: ​Uhh... can’t say for sure.
Kristin: ​Wow, you don’t remember?
Jenny: ​Like, probably not but like –
Kristin: ​Do you know what a banana clip is?
Jenny: ​Maybe a real girl left one at my house one time –
Kristin: ​Oh, wow.
Jenny: ​And then I was like, oh, a totem of real girlhood. I should hold onto
this in case the opportunity should ever arise that I would somehow know
what to do with this and then do it.
Kristin: ​I see.​ ​Ugh, I loved a banana clip. I think I would still love a banana
clip, like, they’re pretty great. They just scoop all your hair up into one little
thing.


Jenny: ​They just get it all in there.
Kristin: ​Although Cordelia is using her banana clip with an additional twist
or something. I would just put all my hair in it and it would kind of fall out
the back.
Jenny: ​Mmmm.
Kristin: ​You know, that was the style, but that was more in the 80s.
Anyway, you know what?
Jenny: ​You know what we haven’t touched on yet?
Kristin: ​What?
Jenny: ​We haven’t touched on the sweet opening shot of Willow holding the
crossbow, Xander whittling the stakes, Buffy wielding a machete that she’s
using to chop crudite.
Kristin: ​Yeah, yeah.
Jenny: ​That is all.
Kristin: ​Yeah, it’s pretty great.
Jenny: ​So good.
Kristin: ​It’s pretty great.
Jenny: ​Although I will say that those cucumber slices are too thick to really
be usable.
Kristin: ​And what a great little metaphor for Buffy’s life, right?
Jenny: ​Right, right.
Kristin: ​There it all is. That she must use the weapon that she’s killing
vampires with to also cut cucumbers for school.


Jenny: ​Intersectionality!
Kristin: ​Yeah, there you have it. All in a machete, everyone. So then, I
don’t have a ton – like, the next note I have is the end of this act. But we
obviously go through the whole parent-teacher meeting.
Jenny: ​The parent teacher night. Some great lemonade-based comedy
happening in this scene. [laughter]
Kristin: ​Yeah, yeah, yeah. Really, truly, there really is so many lemonade –
there are so many lemonade-based jokes. Both in like verbal and physical
comedy spaces.
Jenny: ​Yeah! We get Willow’s reaction to tasting it, we get Willow signalling
to Joyce, “don’t! You don’t want lemonade.”
Kristin: ​Right, we get Buffy spilling it on Snyder.
Jenny: ​Oh yeah, and then we get Willow – when Cordelia is being really just
unnecessarily mean, we get Willow telling her to “have some lemonade.”
Kristin: ​Yeah, Cordelia is super – like, her smile when Principal Snyder
takes Joyce away and they reframe that shot, which is really done, I think,
very beautifully where Cordelia moves from the left side of the screen to the
right. And then it’s framed so Cordelia’s face is closest, then Willow and then
Buffy and they go in a diagonal getting further away, just like that. And the
smile on her fucking face and then she’s like, “you’re going to be fucking
grounded until our ten-year reunion.” Like, why is she even happy about it?
Jenny: ​Yeah, she’s extra mean this episode. It’s unclear why she’s so mean.
Kristin: ​It is unclear. I stand behind her in any of her decisions, but still.
Jenny: ​Yeah, yeah. Then we go back to the library where Giles is in extreme
study mode and he has made two important discoveries. Number one:
Spike’s name before it was Spike, before he earned the name Spike by
torturing his victims with railroad spikes, his name was William the Bloody.
That’s important. And also, he discovers that Spike has faced two slayers in
the past and has killed them both. Yo!


Kristin: ​Right, right. Which we get to dig into, right? Like, that’s a part of
Spike’s history that we will get to explore a little more?
Jenny: ​Yeah, we’ll learn a little bit more about that.
Kristin: ​A little bit more about that? I just said that because I feel like I
know more about it. So then Joyce talks to Snyder. Joyce comes out and is
like, “In the car, now!”
Jenny: ​Such a mom!
Kristin: ​She fucking nails it, of course she does. Kristine Sutherland is a
fucking genius and I hope we have her on the show as well. But before they
can get to the car, the window sma – well, first of all, before they can get to
the car, Snyder turns off every light in the school.
Jenny: ​Even though Parent-Teacher Night is still totally underway!
Kristin: ​Right, but I liked it because I felt it was intentional.
Jenny: ​He was like “you can’t stay here. You don’t have to go home…”
Kristin: ​“But you can’t stay here.” But I felt what it signaled was that he
was there to talk to Joyce.
Jenny: ​Ah.
Kristin: ​And once he had done that, he didn’t give a fuck anymore and he
was like, “now everybody leaves, please.”
Jenny: ​Ugh, ooh, he’s the worst!
Kristin: ​He’s the best though, I love him. But the worst, yes. Anyhow, then
crash, bang, boom.
Jenny: ​Spike and co.
Kristin: ​Yep. They come – a beautiful, beautiful entrance.


Jenny: ​Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: ​Here, this vampire gang. And they go chasing after everyone. This
has probably my favorite moment. No, it’s definitely not my favorite moment
in the episode, ‘cause there’s so many. But one of my favorite moments is
when we see Cordelia get grabbed and Willow comes up with a fucking
statue –
Jenny: ​The bust!
Kristin: ​A bust and whales that vamp and grabs Cordelia and whisks her
into the utility closet.
Jenny: ​Yeah and I think between this save and their ensuing time together
in the utility closet, where Cordelia has already spent a significant amount of
time in Out of Mind, Out of Sight.
Kristin: ​Yeah, Cordelia loves the utility closet.
Jenny: ​I think they might just deserve a special little trophy called the
Sexual Tension Award for this episode.
Kristin: ​Ohhh yes, oh yes.
Jenny: ​Even though you’d think the obvious choice, Spike and Dru, right?
But there it is.
Kristin: ​No, but there’s no tension there at all. It’s just sexual
Jenny: ​It’s just all sexual.
Kristin: ​[laughs] Yeah, the runner-up for me was Xander and Angel again.
Jenny: ​Oh yeah, they’ve really got an old married couple thing going on.
Kristin: ​Yeah, they really need to make out already. But you know what,
the only people who need to make out more – and I’m going to just say this.
I think Cordelia and Willow made out in this episode.


Jenny: ​Oh, really?
Kristin: ​For real. I think we didn’t see this –
Jenny: ​It’s in the subtext?
Kristin: ​I think that what we all know, because it’s just like, they get in the
closet and they have this dialogue where Willow is like, “what are we going
to do now? Ho hum.” And then she’s like, “pray.”
Jenny: ​Right, that’s code, that’s code.
Kristin: ​And I’m like, uh huh! [laughs]
Jenny: ​[laughs] This also just reminded me ‘cause I’m sure there’s Cordelia
and Willow fanfiction. But we talked, I think, back in Out of Mind, Out of
Sight about there being the potential for Cordelia-on-Cordelia fanfic. That
was a joke that we made, but it turns out, based on some quick research by
our friend Cameron – not Esposito, but a whole other Cameron.
Kristin: ​Cameron Glavin.
Jenny: ​Cameron Glavin reported back after listening to that episode of our
podcast and let us know that there are at least two. At least two
Cordelia-on-Cordelia fanfics available on the internet. If that’s something
you’re into, go forth and seek your pleasures from the world.
Kristin: ​If that’s ​not ​something you’re into, who are you?
Jenny: ​[laughs] Yeah, I do really want to know what happens.
Kristin: ​Me too, I think that we should make it our special assignment to
make sure we get our hands on some Cordelia-on-Cordelia so we can report
back.
Jenny: ​Oh my god.
Kristin: ​To those who might be afraid to Google that. [laughs]


Jenny: ​What a great idea.
Kristin: ​Cool, so Willow and Cordelia are making out.
Jenny: ​Right, and Buffy is taking com-mand.
Kristin: ​Yeah.
Jenny: ​Buffy is on it!
Kristin: ​This is incredible –
Jenny: ​She’s like General Summers.
Kristin: ​General Summers who gets everyone to listen to her, including
Principal Snyder.
Jenny: ​Kinda.
Kristin: ​Kinda, right. But he does run in the room. I mean, I really think
that if we were really to believe Principal Snyder to be who Principal Snyder
is, he probably would have made the wrong decision and gotten himself
killed before he got in that room.
Jenny: ​Yeah.
Kristin: ​But then it’s confusing because then like we said, he knows that
something’s up. He knows that there is a dark force of some kind. We don’t
know if he knows that there’s vampires per se but right? So maybe, I don’t
know, I need more on Snyder.
Jenny: ​You’ve just made me realize that Principal Snyder kind of reminds
me of the lawyer in Jurassic Park.
Kristin: ​Mmm. Go on.
Jenny: ​Who dies in the jaws of a T-Rex after abandoning the kids and hiding
in a small bathroom structure.


Kristin: ​We’re happy about that death, right? When we watch –
Jenny: ​Yeah, he was a jerk
Kristin: ​He was a jerk. I wouldn’t be happy about a Snyder death but –
Jenny: ​No!
Kristin: ​But no, I see your point.
Jenny: ​But yeah, there is something there.
Kristin:​ I was having feelings over here.
Jenny: ​Oh, sorry, sorry, sorry.
Kristin:​ I was lost in my own feelings world. But yeah, good comparison.
Jenny: ​Thank you.
Kristin: ​Great job, Jenny. I would like to make a small note here about how
fucking strong the doors at Sunnydale High School are.
Jenny: ​Oh my god.
Kristin: ​Like, no one can get through them. They take axes –
Jenny: ​Is it a riot-proof high school?
Kristin: ​Yeah, yeah. I wonder –
Jenny: ​You know, my college, SUNY Purchase, what everybody says is that
it was built not long after there were a lot of college riots happening. And so
the whole campus where all the classroom buildings are is gradually stepped
to make it more difficult to drive stuff over or whatever. And the doors are
super heavy.
Kristin: ​You know, I’m responding to you the way I am being like, yeah,


yeah, because I went to SUNY Binghamton and –
Jenny: ​Is it the same?
Kristin: ​It is.
Jenny: ​Oh, wow.
Kristin: ​Yeah and they were always called riot stairs when we were there. I
lived in – the dorms that I lived in at SUNY Binghamton when I was there
was called College in the Woods. And there were a cluster of five dorms and
they were split with these riot stairs, which are great for preventing riots I
suppose, but really poor for a bunch of very drunk college students.
Jenny: ​Ha!
Kristin: ​‘Cause the stairs go on one diagonal and the railings go on the
opposite diagonal.
Jenny: ​What?
Kristin: ​It was like a whole thing – it was a lot. And things were broken up
like that too in parts of the campus. I don’t think the whole campus, but the
parts built after the riots. After the riots, as though it was a one-time thing
in one generation. Anyhow, so maybe Torrence High School has some riot
doors.
Jenny: ​If the insides – are the interiors – do we have any reason to believe
that the interiors are an actual high school and not –
Kristin: ​A set?
Jenny: ​A build on a soundstage?
Kristin: ​I would imagine it would be a soundstage, but I don’t know.
Something to look into.
Jenny: ​Yes. Or just email us.


Kristin: ​Right, that’s the thing.
Jenny: ​You know already.
Kristin: ​We don’t even have to look into things anymore. We just say, I
wonder… and then we get emails being like, “we know, we know!” It’s great,
it’s my favorite thing. Bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com
Jenny: ​Please.
Kristin: ​I had a little fun note here. I know it’s a different trophy case but
there’s a scene – and actually, I didn’t notice it but I read that when Spike is
walking down the hall, his reflection gets caught in something.
Jenny: ​Oops!
Kristin: ​Which was a little mistake.
Jenny: ​Whoopsie daisy.
Kristin: ​A little mistake. But in that scene he walks down the hallway past a
trophy case –
Jenny: ​But not the trophy case where Amy’s mom is hanging out?
Kristin: ​Nah, I don’t think so, no, it looks like it’s in a different part of the
school. But I still had a moment where I pictured Amy’s mom’s little eyeballs
in the cheerleading statue watching this all go down in the high school. You
know, ‘cause she’s just trapped in there. At least she has good
entertainment. There’s a lot going on in the high school, daytime, nighttime.
Jenny: ​Oh my god, oh my god.
Kristin: ​Cool, so Xander goes to get Angel.
Jenny: ​Yay!
Kristin: ​Which is where our second romance starts to blossom.


Jenny: ​Right, right.
Kristin: ​When they find each other again and he doesn’t want to, of course,
because he wants to make sure that Buffy and that Willow are okay. But as
a good Scooby does, he realizes, per Giles’ instructions, that the more
important thing is to go get Angel so he does.
Jenny:​ Yep, yep, yep.
Kristin: ​And then we have this scene where Angel doesn’t tell Xander what’s
going on, for obvious reasons, I think, because Xander has to actually be
scared.
Jenny: ​Right, to make it real.
Kristin: ​Right.
Jenny: ​Although I feel like Xander being like, “I knew you were faking it,
Mr. Evil Undead Guy” may tip his hand a little bit that he does know what’s
going on?
Kristin: ​Yeah, well, and he – right, I don’t know
Jenny: ​Well, regardless.
Kristin: ​Regardless, we have this meeting between Angel and Spike. Very
important, this meeting.
Jenny:​ Yes.
Kristin: ​And we watch the episodes twice, as many of you know from
listening to our podcast and hearing us talk about it all the time. But the first
time through, I didn’t notice and the second time through, you didn’t even
notice and I had us pull it back. Because when Spike and Angel hug for the
first time, it is very obvious on Spike’s face that he knows immediately upon
hugging Angel that something’s up and that it’s not Angelus. Although Spike
calls him AN-gelus.
Jenny: ​Right, there’s this pronunciative discrepancy.


Kristin: ​But regardless, Spike is onto Angel here and makes him believe
that he believes him for a beat and then... clocks him, right? He just
punches him in the face?
Jenny: ​Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: ​Yeah. And we learn that Angel has sired Spike.
Jenny: ​That is what is said.
Kristin: ​That is what is said.
Jenny: ​Spike says, “you were my sire, you were my Yoda.”
Kristin: ​Right and we’ll talk about this a little more in future episodes. But
actually right now, I don’t think we’ve learned – oh yeah, we have learned
what siring is because of Darla and Angel. I thought maybe we hadn’t
because Xander has a line where he’s like [high-pitched] “what does it mean
to sire?”
Jenny: ​Yeah, I can’t remember the exact information that was exchanged
about Darla.
Kristin: ​Right but we – yeah, whatever. Anyhow. So that happens. And
then… and then what? And then we’re –
Jenny: ​Well, we haven’t mentioned yet that there’s this great scene where
Snyder’s being a baby and he’s all getting – he’s fixing to hop out the
window and Joyce is like, “Uh, what are you doing? You’re gonna get us all
killed.” And Snyder’s like, “I’m a little baby, I do what I want.” And then
somebody else joins him, that guy gets eaten as soon as he gets halfway out
the window –
Kristin: ​Mmhmm.
Jenny: ​Then Joyce seals the window back up and like, “you’re the worst.”
And Snyder’s like, “I’m starting to see a certain mother-daughter
resemblance.”


Kristin: ​Which is pretty tight, considering how this arc goes with Buffy and
Joyce.
Jenny: ​Seriously.
Kristin: ​Right, ‘cause you do – I mean, you see Joyce is tough as fucking
nails in this episode!
Jenny: ​Yeah, she’s so great.
Kristin: ​And I know that Buffy is the slayer so she automatically gets to be
tough as nails regardless of her parentage. But I’m gonna go and say that I
think her parentage has a lot to do with her badassery. Because fucking
Joyce, are you kidding me? Turning back around with her axe, coming in
there?
Jenny: ​Yeah.
Kristin: ​Come on!
Jenny: ​Pretty badass.
Kristin: ​So badass and the way she talks to Snyder and the way that she
trusts Buffy?
Jenny: ​Yeah, yes.
Kristin: ​I mean, she’s scared but she still forged forward. Go for it. Which
actually reminds me – I mean, you know, we’re talking about the march a
bit, but we’re all fired up so forgive. But I do weekly livestreams on
Autostraddle. I don’t know if you know Autostraddle, but they’re a brilliant
site for queer and trans women and other humans. And they host me on
their Facebook page and I do advice – you know, I give live advice every
week. And this week, somebody – their question was, “my mom won’t let
me go to the protest, what do I say to her?” And I think I had that rumbling
around in my brain when we were watching this episode, because you know,
it’s a big thing for a parent to let a child go to a thing that could be dang –
right, you don’t know – big crowd like that is scary. And with Buffy and


Joyce, we’re seeing this situation where Joyce knows there’s mega-danger.
But she sees something in Buffy, where she looks like she knows what she’s
doing and I have to trust her.
So it just aligned for me where I was thinking about that parent and those
many parents who probably have young people in their lives right now who
want to participate, who want to protest, who want to march, who want to
be active. And they know that there’s some danger there, that there could
be danger there. And seeing if you can trust the greater good to protect your
kid and let them march or let them, you know, in Buffy’s case, crawl up into
the ceiling and fight vampires.​ ​[Jenny laughs] I just – I think it’s interesting.
And I don’t know how I would feel, you know? It’s like, I know that I took
myself to a march today, but I don’t know how I would feel if I had a kid and
my kid – I would let them go but I think I would be worried.
Jenny: ​Stressed out.
Kristin: ​Yeah, super stressed out. So anyway, that was some more feelings
by Kristin.
Jenny: ​Those were so good.
Kristin: ​Thank you, thank you so much.
Jenny: ​Such good feelings. I also love that Buffy isn’t like, “ugh shut up
Mom, just let me do what I’m doing.” She’s like, “I know they’re dangerous.
That’s why I’m going to go up through the ceiling.” Like, she is respectful, is
clear, and also says not necessarily what her mom needs to hear, like, what
most want to hear –
Kristin: ​Right
Jenny: ​But says something that will help her mom feel better and be less
afraid.
Kristin: ​Yeah, we really learn about how Buffy and Joyce together handle
crisis in this episode, right? ‘Cause there really is a lot of – and I do think
that sometimes it takes a crisis to bring out those skills in us where we can
be so narrowly focused and clear-headed.​ ​[Jenny laughs]​ ​What are you


laughing at?
Jenny: ​I’m just laughing at how bad I am in a crisis.
Kristin: ​[laughs] Jenny is horrible in a crisis, it is true.
Jenny: ​One time, Kristin was cutting an avocado and she slashed open the
webbing between two of her fingers –
Kristin: ​Oh god, I’m sorry, everyone! They just got tore – they just got
yanked into a whole –
Jenny: ​Science! It’s just science. And she was like bleeding like crazy and
she was like, “Jenny! Jenny!” and I was like, “Ahhhhh!”
Kristin: ​I wasn’t – no, do you want to know what’s hysterical? I was not
bleeding like crazy, Jenny. At all.
Jenny: ​Ohh.
Kristin: ​‘Cause I cut myself really bad but I immediately knew that it was
really bad and I picked my hand up above my head so it was high up?
Jenny: ​See, you’re great in a crisis.
Kristin: ​I was. I was great in a crisis, and I – but I wasn’t wearing – so I
had, you know, I was at the house in my pajamas or something and I knew
we needed to go – it was very clear to me that –
Jenny: ​That we needed to go to the ER.
Kristin: ​We needed to go to the ER, but I wasn’t wearing a bra which, hey,
revolution, why did I need one? But I felt I did. And so I like, can you just –
all I need from you is to help me get this sports bra over my head. Can you
just – and she was losing it so bad.
Jenny: ​Have you ever seen a chicken doing laps around a yard?
Kristin: ​Have you ever seen any sitcom where a woman goes into labor and


her husband is there and the way every sitcom treats it is that the husband
spins around and the husband winds up needing the oxygen?
Jenny: ​Loss of central nervous system control.
Kristin: ​That was Jenny, that was Jenny. So I had to sit her down and get
the sports bra on myself. You did manage to drive at least, to the
emergency room.
Jenny: ​I have my skills, I have my uses.
Kristin: ​[laughs] But yeah, total panic. Same thing when I spilled a whole
gallon of boiling water on my body. I did that, too. Don’t let me in the
kitchen, is the lesson here.
Jenny: ​Yeah, well, if you are going to let her in the kitchen, make sure
somebody besides me is around.​ ​[Kristin laughs] Anyway.
Kristin: ​Anyway...
Jenny: ​Oh, the other thing about people in a crisis is just, real quick, after
Xander has left the library and it’s just Giles and Jenny Calendar, Giles is like
“yo, I gotta go out there.” He starts un-barricading the door and Jenny’s
like, “what are you doing?” And he’s like, “I am responsible for her,” which is
such a sweet dad moment.
Kristin: ​Yeah, yeah.
Jenny: ​And you think Jenny Calendar’s maybe going to argue with him, but
she’s like, “Rupert! [quietly] Be careful.”
Kristin: ​Oh, ‘cause they love each other!
Jenny:​ Yes, because they love each other. And then Buffy, of course, falls
through the ceiling ‘cause she is up there above the library, and grabs her
weapons bag and is like, “yo, you need to stay in here because if I don’t
make it out of here, I know that you will get my mom out of here.” It’s very
beautiful!


Kristin: ​It is very beautiful.
Jenny: ​I love it so much.
Kristin: ​Mm-hmm… ugh!
Jenny: ​Giles is a dad.
Kristin: ​God, it’s happening. I want to just say out loud: it is happening. We
are falling in love with these characters. I know many of us are already in
love with these characters, but this is when it starts to happen to you if you
are watching for the first time, you’re starting to slide down the slippery
slope where we love these characters ‘cause they’re beautiful characters and
their relationships are complex. Oh, it’s so good, it’s so good!
Jenny: ​[sighs happily]
Kristin: ​So anyway, there’s a whole big fight scene, people are dying. The
right people are dying, meaning the non-people are dying. Except for that
poor teacher who Spike –
Jenny: ​RIP.
Kristin: ​Spike kills just...
Jenny: ​For fun. Yup.
Kristin:​ To kill, which is an important personality trait that we glean about
Spike.
Jenny: ​We also – what’s so great when Spike and Buffy are just about to
fight, when they’re acknowledging that they’re about to right, and they’re
like, do we even need weapons?
Kristin: ​Yeah.
Jenny: ​And Spike is like, “They make me feel all manly” and runs his hand
down his abdomen a little bit? [Kristin laughs] Which for some reason is just
so great!


Kristin: ​And he also says, “The last slayer I killed begged for her life. You
don’t seem like the type to beg.”
Jenny: ​Accurate!
Kristin: ​Accurate. Nailed it, right? Very observant, Spike. And also, I think
they’re third in line, but maybe second? Like, there’s some fucking sexual
tension, I think, between Spike and Buffy.
Jenny: ​Yeah, there’s something there.
Kristin: ​I mean, in this scene, specifically in this scene.
Jenny: ​Yeah, yeah.
Kristin: ​And maybe in the Bronze too.
Jenny: ​Two titans converge.
Kristin: ​Yeah, that’s the thing, right? So they fight, Spike rips – I mean, he
literally puts his hand into the wall and rips out a two by four.
Jenny: ​That’s pretty wild.
Kristin: ​That’s a pretty wild indicator of Spike’s magnitude in terms of
strength.
Jenny: ​Yes.
Kristin: ​He’s over Buffy. I still don’t think, with Joyce or not, I think that –
Jenny: ​Buffy would have rolled.
Kristin: ​Yes, but Buffy’s definitely in peril here and Joyce –
Jenny: ​And it’s very satisfying for Joyce to be the person who deals that
blow to the back of Spike’s head.


Kristin: ​Yes, she’s like, “you don’t fuck with my daughter,” clank.
Jenny: ​And then he’s like, “women!” and then we’re like, “the patriarchy!”
[Kristin laughs] And then he runs off into the night and go back and watch
his little hop out the window. It’s pretty hilarious
Kristin: ​Yeah, I feel like it’s a very Spikey hop.
Jenny: ​Yeah.
Kristin: ​I feel like he hops over things and into things. That’s, like, a thing.
Jenny: ​Mmmm.
Kristin: ​We’ll see if we notice more of that.
Jenny: ​Yeah.
Kristin: ​Right, and we’ve already talked about the police and Snyder, this
important moment that happens between them. Angel and Xander, fucking
married couple moment –
Jenny: ​Oh my god.
Kristin:​ Where they’re walking away and Xander’s like [high-pitched] “but
what about the siring? What does that mean? And what would have
happened if he did believe you?” and he’s like, “ah, he would have bit you.”
[laughter] Just a cute little moment between the large men of Buffy.
Jenny: ​Then Joyce indicates to Buffy that she gets it.
Kristin: ​Yeah!
Jenny: ​And she’s really proud of Buffy for being able to take of herself and
thinking of other people first in a crisis, which is so great.
Kristin: ​Which is like – and also really what Buffy is after in this episode,
you know? Buffy doesn’t want Joyce to not be proud of her and she doesn’t
want Joyce to think that she’s gonna cause trouble and she doesn’t want to


cause trouble.
Jenny: ​And what’s really interesting too is the focus on – which is so true to
life, there’s this extreme focus on testing, on academics, and in particular on
testing which is specifically brought up, testing and grades. And that Buffy is
able to show her mom that there’s a lot to be proud of about Buffy?
Kristin: ​Right.
Jenny: ​Without involving any academic scores or qualifiers. That’s really
important, ‘cause I feel like that’s not something we see a ton in TV and
film. You know?
Kristin: ​Yeah, no, it’s true and we don’t see at all in real life. You know?
Jenny: ​Yeah. Oh, look, real life skills that saved lives and took care of
people.
Kristin: ​Right, that has to count for something. And also, on top of, I think,
Joyce understanding that element, she also has gotten a window into
Principal Snyder, which is really important ‘cause she saw what a fucking –
Jenny: ​[frustrated yell]
Kristin: ​Yeah, he was. And so that, I think, informs also what he said to her
in the office earlier. She’s not taking it as seriously because she realized
that, you know, when shit went down, the principal was horrible and my
daughter saved the day.
Jenny: ​Hell yeah.
Kristin: ​So maybe I should trust my daughter a little bit more than I trust
the administration of a school, and you know what? In a good amount of
cases, that could be correct. And that is not speaking negatively about the
fantastic teachers of the world, but I think if you’re a fantastic teacher, you
probably are nodding your head in agreement at some of the horrendous
things that happen in administration at schools and some of the horrible
ways that adults treat teenagers.


Jenny: ​And children.
Kristin: ​And children, yeah. Children. It’s a whole thing.​ ​[Jenny sighs]
Anyhow, it’s a nice ending.
Jenny: ​Ah, but not quite.
Kristin: ​Jenny Calendar still wants to date Giles.
Jenny: ​Oh yes, yes, yes. She loops that arm through that other arm.
Kristin: ​Angel and Xander going home to watch a good episode of television
together or something.
Jenny: ​We’ve – oh my god. We’ve got two great things that happen that we
haven’t talked about yet. The last two things that happen in the episode.
First of all –
Kristin: ​Oh yeah, no, I have more things.
Jenny: ​Cordelia and Willow are still in the utility closet.
Kristin: ​Yes, that is one of my things.
Jenny: ​Cordelia is praying and also announcing that she does not consider
herself responsible for her actions during that time of the month.​ ​[Kristin
laughs] Which for some reason – on a show that’s being written and directed
by dudes, it’s like, ugh, the patriarchy, but for some reason, coming out of
Cordelia’s mouth?
Kristin: ​Yeah.
Jenny: ​It’s just like… yeah.
Kristin: ​[simultaneously] Yeah. Also when she’s in a utility closet –
Jenny:​ With Willow…
Kristin:​ Talking about being a lady with Willow, being a lady...


Jenny: ​Right, Willow’s over it, she’s got a headache. She’s like, “are we ever
gonna make out again?” Probably.
Kristin: ​Right. She’s disappointed ‘cause she was like, “let’s make out.”
Then they made out and Cordelia was like, “okay, but now I should pray.”
[Jenny laughs]​ ​That’s how the scene went.
Jenny: ​We’ve all been there, am I right?
Kristin: ​Yeah, exactly.
Jenny: ​Soooo...
Kristin: ​And then of course, the Annoying One.
Jenny: ​Yaaaay!
Kristin: ​As so named by Spike, gets put in a cage and killed. And I don’t
know what he is because he dies the same way a vampire would die, in the
light. But we are not to believe he was a vampire. A vampire?
Jenny: ​I think this requires additional research and perhaps reflection on
the original prophecy about one rising from the ashes of five and dah dah
dah dah dah.
Kristin: ​Right, right, right.
Jenny: ​Not totally sure. Is he, like, more than a vampire? Is he a vampire
and then some?
Kristin: ​Do you know what I don’t care about?
Jenny: ​What he is?
Kristin: ​I don’t. He’s gone
Jenny:​ Yeah, he’s dead, hooray! The peasants rejoiced!


Kristin: ​[laughs] Ding dong, the Anointed One is dead.
Jenny: ​Oh god, this show just got even better.
Kristin: ​And then Spike, I think, like, kills everybody in the room, really,
right? There were like –
Jenny: ​Well, there was just that one minion.
Kristin: ​There was just that one guy – the one minion.
Jenny: ​I don’t know if that minion is dead or just unconscious.
Kristin: ​Oh, maybe he just punches him, whatever. But it’s very clear at the
end of this scene, Spike and Drusilla have in fact moved in. They are here,
they are here to stay and [sing-song] oh, how happy I am about it.
Jenny: ​[sings a riff]
Kristin: ​Wow. So that was School Hard.
Jenny: ​Whew! What a great episode!
Kristin: ​Fantastic episode.
Jenny: ​How exciting.
Kristin: ​I have not screamed this much during an episode since the start of
the series. [Jenny laughs] I was very full of enthusiasm.
Jenny: ​Yeah, I’m trying to think when was the last time – you screamed a
lot during Prophecy Girl. You screamed a lot during Angel.
Kristin: ​Uh huh, but not like that. But not like that.
Jenny: ​Not like this, no, no. This was a whole other bag of cats.
Kristin: ​No, not like this. I feel like we have rounded a bend and we are just
plummeting into the abyss of wonder that is Buffy the Vampire Slayer.


Jenny: ​Yaaaaay! Abyss of wonder.
Kristin: ​So thanks for being with us, thanks for listening.
Jenny: ​Yeah!
Kristin: ​Tell ‘em who you are. You know?
Jenny: ​Oh, don’t mind if I do. [Kristin laughs] You know? I’ve got that
information, if nothing else.
Kristin:​ Yeah, I know you do.
Jenny:​ I am Jenny Owen Youngs and when I’m not watching Buffy and
making this podcast with my wonderful wife Kristin, and also when I’m not
marching at the Women’s March in Los Angeles or points elsewhere, I’m
usually writing and recording songs. That’s my gig. You can learn more
about me at jennyowenyoungs.com/buffering where I have taken the liberty
of curating a little playlist of my non-Buffy songs for you guys if you want to
check them out. You can also give me a shout on Twitter at
@jennyowenyoungs.
Kristin: ​Thank you for calling me your wonderful wife.
Jenny: ​You ​are ​my wonderful wife.
Kristin: ​So nice to hear that compliment. I feel the same way about you.
Jenny: ​Awww.
Kristin: ​Yeah, it’s true, I like you.
Jenny: ​But who ​are ​you?
Kristin: ​Well, my name is Kristin Russo.
Jenny:​ Ah.


Kristin:​ And if you want to check out more about me, you can follow me on
Twitter at @kristinnoeline. [she spells it out] I know that many of you listen
every week have started sending me emails to Kristin Noeline, with hyphens
between all the letters because I spell it every week. But I’m just spelling it
because what if you are listening for the first time? I don’t know. Anyhow,
you can find me on Twitter or you can also find out more about the work
that I do for LGBTQ young people and their families over at
everyoneisgay.com and mykidisgay.com. So yeah, that’s me.
Jenny: ​Buffering The Vampire Slayer is on Twitter and Facebook at
@bufferingcast. You can also drop us an email at
bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin: ​A reminder that if you live in the Los Angeles area, you can see us
next week.
Jenny: ​Oh yeah!
Kristin: ​February 2nd, please come out and join us at Nerdmelt.
Information is at nerdmeltla.com. We will have guests, Chris Farin and
Brittany Nichols. We’re going to be doing a full episode of Reptile Boy.
Jenny: ​Wooo!
Kristin: ​So watch it before you come.
Jenny:​ Ow, ow, ow!
Kristin:​ And we’ll also be playing a little bit of music. It’s gonna be so much
fun. Come –
Jenny: ​One hoot, one holler, at least, guaranteed.
Kristin: ​At least a hoot and a holler. And of course, as always, please if you
can support us, we just launched our very own Patreon page over at
patreon.com/bufferingcast. There’s all sorts of cool rewards over there. Last
week, I made a behind the scenes video of Jenny and I writing the bridge to
– what was last week’s episode called?


Jenny:​ Ooh, not When She Was Bad, but rather –
Kristin: ​Oh, no, it was but it was the bridge to When She Was Bad, yes. So
a couple weeks ago, I made a behind the scenes video of us creating that,
like, writing it in real time. And I’m gonna edit that and put it up this week.
That’s for our $5 patrons and our $5 patrons also always get the mp3 of the
song the week that it goes up.
Jenny: ​Indeed.
Kristin:​ So if you don’t want to wait until the end of the season to get the
album, you can support us at the $5 level. You can also support us at the
dollar level or the $10 level and get fun prizes. You can check it all out over
on Patreon. Thank you so much to the people who have supported us
already. It has been an – we have seen an incredible response.
Jenny: ​Yes.
Kristin: ​At my most recent check, we were above $300 already in just two
weeks of having that Patreon page up. So please if you can, keep the
support coming. It’s really helpful to us in keeping this sounding good and,
you know, keeping our lives moving forward ‘cause we do take a
considerable amount of time watching Buffy the Vampire Slayer, writing
songs, and making the podcast, which we love. But it’s very helpful and we
are very appreciative of all of you, so thanks.
Jenny: ​Another way that you can support us is by giving us a review on
iTunes. Give us those 5 stars and tell us why you like us! If you have
negative things to say –
Kristin: ​Keep it to yourself!
Jenny: ​Yeah, keep it to yourself! [Kristin laughs] You can also find our
album of the songs from Season 1, on iTunes, on Spotify, on wherever you
get your digital music.
Kristin: ​That’s true, and we have a handful –
Jenny: ​A handful of CDs left still in the Buffering store.


Kristin: ​Yes, along with pins and T-shirts.
Jenny: ​Good gravy.
Kristin: ​There’s a lot to do. You have a lot – let’s let you go, you’ve got a lot
of homework. [laughs]
Jenny: ​Enjoy that homework and ‘til next time –
Jenny and Kristin: ​Awooooooooooooo
[Jenny performing “School Hard” off the album “Songs from Season Two” by
Buffering The Vampire Slayer]
School’s hard, slaying’s harder
School’s hard, slaying’s harder
Time for parent-teacher night
I’m in charge of every bite
I wasn’t looking for a fight
But a fight came looking for me
Sheila stabbed a teacher and
She’s supposed to help me plan
But I’m pretty sure she won’t, oh man
Snyder’s got it in for me
Snyder’s got it in for me
You gotta be kidding me, I can’t believe I have to hostess
And Spike just got to town and now he’s talking up some St. Vigeous
It’s making school hard
School’s hard, slaying’s harder
Hell yeah, I’m a mother starter
(It’s making school so hard)
School’s hard, slaying’s harder
Hell yeah, I’m my mother’s daughter


Machetes are my favorite way
To chop up fancy crudité
I also made some lemonade
And my recipe destroyed
Spike came bustin' through the glass
Grabbed a two by four all like hulk smash
But my mom knows how to wield an ax
So you better run, boy
Yeah, you better run, boy
We agreed to Saturday so what's up with this early attack?
Why do you have to get up in my face when I just made all these
snacks?
Making school hard
School’s hard, slaying’s harder
Hell yeah, I’m my mother’s daughter
(It’s making school so hard)
School’s hard, slaying’s harder
Hell yeah, I’m my mother’s daughter
Cordelia and Willow
Are still locked up inside
That utility closet
Where they went to hide, went to hide,
Went to hide, went to hide
Tonight gave me lots to process
Like Spike and Angel are old friends
But at least the Anointed One is dead
Hooray, hooray, hooray
That kid was really the worst
Jenny: ​Hey guys. Turns out this week while we were writing the episode
song, we felt a sudden twinge. Something was missing. That something was
a jingle for our beloved Drusilla. Without further ado, here you go.
[Drusilla’s jingle plays]


Drusilla, you fill up my heart with dread
And still I’m led right back to you
Jenny: ​Wow, if you’re a patron at the $5 level or higher, that little jingle
and today’s song are already up for your downloading pleasure. And very
soon, you will also be able to get your very own Drusilla ringtone. What a
day. Bye!

