Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 1.07: Angel
Kristin:​ Hey, this is Kristin! And you are listening to yet another episode of
Buffering the Vampire Slayer, brought to you by Cheetos, blood, and Hugo
Boss!
Jenny: ​[laughing]
[Intro music]
Jenny: ​Hello and welcome to another episode of Buffering the Vampire
Slayer, a podcast where we’re watching and discussing every episode of
Buffy the Vampire Slayer​, one at a time. I’m Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: ​And I’m Kristin Russo, and this week we are talking about Season
1, Episode 7, “Angel.”
Jenny: ​[sexily] ​An-​gel.
Kristin: ​Oh, what a title.
Jenny: ​It says it all!
Kristin: ​The first episode that is named after a character on the show.
Jenny: ​Accurate.
Kristin: ​I read that in the trivia section of IMDb.
Jenny: ​Nice. Stay tuned at the end of this episode and every episode for the
all new, all original recap song we’ll be writing about this very dramatic
episode.
Kristin: ​Yes. Oh, what an episode.
Jenny: ​Whew. This episode was written by David Greenwalt. David
Green-​walt! ​Excited.


Kristin: ​You love David Greenwalt?
Jenny: ​Yeeah! A classic. And directed by Scott Brazil. And it originally aired
on April 14th, 1997.
Kristin: ​I wonder what I was doing on April 14th, 1997.
Jenny: ​I was just thinking!
Kristin: ​So, ok, so I was a junior in high school?
Jenny: ​Ok, ok.
Kristin: ​And April, that’s like prom season, isn’t it?
Jenny: ​Um, sure! As someone who’s never gone to a prom, I really can’t
help you.
Kristin: ​Well, I’m trying to figure it out, because I went to my junior prom
with a girl, so, like–
Jenny: ​Awoo!
Kristin: ​I dunno, that’s a milestone. I have a picture of that. For those you
listening, I’ll post the picture of me and the girl I went to prom with. I’ve
posted it on the internet before, but I’ll post it on Buffering so that you can
get a load of what I was doing just around the time this episode aired.
Jenny: ​“Get a load of it,” she says. Great.
Kristin: ​Anyway, this episode, for those of you are like, “Gee, I wonder what
the episode named ‘Angel’ is about,” well, this is the episode where we learn
that Angel is a fucking vampire. I asked Jenny what the summary should be
and that’s what she said it should be.
Jenny: ​I mean, I can’t really– can you sum it up better than that?
Kristin: ​I took it literally. Ok, so we watched this episode twice, ‘cause that
is what we’re going to try to do for all the episodes moving forward. It just is


better for us, we get our head around things better. And this time we
watched once on Netflix and once on the DVD.
Jenny: ​And the difference is ​very​ apparent.
Kristin: ​It’s astounding. If you are watching– Are we going to get like, sued
for–
Jenny: ​No.
Kristin: ​It’s just like, if you’re watching on Netflix, you need to stop
immediately.
Jenny: ​If you have another option.
Kristin: ​If you have another option– Hulu, apparently, is showing what we
see on, or at least closer, to what we see on the DVD series–
Jenny: ​Mm-hm.
Kristin: ​–But the lighting, the sound, I mean, everything is so drastically
different. But, one thing that was on Netflix that was not on your DVD,
Jenny–
Jenny: ​[gasps] –Was the “previously on”!
Kristin: ​Was “previously on”, and so I feel like you know you’re going to get
a good episode when you get a “previously on”. I mean, I guess you just get
them forever now, but this episode, they were like, “Well, we have to let
them know everything that’s happened with Angel to this point,” which is
like, six seconds worth of scenes.
Jenny: ​[laughs] Yeah.
Kristin: ​To set us up for “Angel”.
Jenny: ​What a great episode, I’m so excited to talk about it! So many great
things happen, and everybody’s just like, really slamming it out of the park,
performance-wise–


Kristin: ​Yeah.
Jenny: ​I can use sports analogies now, because I was in Chicago when the
Cubs won the game that sent them to the World Series, so I am now... a
Cubs fan?
Kristin: ​Sports expert, Jenny Owen Youngs.
Jenny: ​[laughing] Sports expert. Athletics correspondent, Jennifer Youngs.
Kristin: ​So, we get a couple of things before we roll into the credits here.
One of my favorite moments, pre-credits, in this episode is the beautiful,
cross-hatched lighting Angel reveal.
Jenny: ​Oooh, Angel under the stairwell.
Kristin: ​Angel is standing near blinds so many times in this episode.
Jenny: ​Yes! He’s always lit cross-hatchedly, for sure.
Kristin: ​Yeah!
Jenny: ​And he looks great.
Kristin: ​He looks super great! Jenny paused it very dramatically–
Jenny: ​[laughs] Just so we could stare.
Kristin: ​Unintentionally, so we could eat our sweet potatoes for dinner–
Jenny: ​Uh, yes.
Kristin: ​–and we got the beautiful lighting on Angel’s face. But we also
learn– we also find out about The Three in this–
Jenny: ​Right, right. Before we’re in the Bronze, we are down in the Master’s
lair, and he’s all like, “[evil noise] I’m gonna do this stuff,” and then he’s
talking through his plan with Darla, and it’s like, everything, every line that


Darla delivers in this whole episode, that Julie Benz delivers in this whole
episode, there’s just this like, really interesting– I don’t know, it’s almost like
a sexual energy, you know? There’s just like, this enthusiasm that’s one step
beyond anybody’s enth– And maybe that’s the bloodlust talking?
Kristin: ​Yeah, I mean, she does eventually get into a schoolgirl outfit, so I
don’t think her–
Jenny: ​Eventu–? Pretty soon!
Kristin: ​Yeah! [laughs]
Jenny: ​But her like, enthusiasm, her bare enthusiasm, is so fun.
Kristin: ​Yeah, she loves killing.
Jenny: ​She loves killing, she loves when other people are going to kill, she
loves when like, heavy hitters are getting involved–
Kristin: ​Absolutely.
Jenny: ​Some more sports talk for you.
Kristin: ​She really loved getting assigned the role of killing– not to– I’m
jumping ahead now, but like, her assignment of, “Here, Darla, you kill The
Three”–
Jenny: ​Yeah, yeah, that was a delight for her.
Kristin: ​She was just so excited. But ok, what did I– where did I– Oh, I
screen– This is a screencap. I have to look it up, oh here, is this it? Yeah, so
The Three is a biblical reference, right? So I don’t know how to pronounce
this, what did you say? Gibborim?
Jenny: ​I don’t know! That was a guess.
Kristin: ​That’s how Jenny pronounces it. But it’s from the Book of Samuel,
this says, “Also known as David’s Mighty Warriors, The Three is a group of
the greatest warriors of their time.” So I thought that was pretty cool. I’ve


been reading more and more about Joss Whedon, because it’s happening,
I’m sliding down the slippery slope that is hosting a ​Buffy the Vampire Slayer
podcast, but one of the things that I read recently was just about his respect
of his audience, that he does not ever, like, dumb things down for his
audience, that he, you know, expects, not expects you to know but like,
adds in a lot of references to things assuming that you will know. And of
course, you can enjoy the series if you don’t get all the references, but there
are so many like, little nuggets in every episode of really awesome stuff.
Jenny: ​Yeah, mm-hm.
Kristin: ​Anyhow, then Xander dances. [laughs]
Jenny: ​[laughs] Wait. Still before the Bronze, after they discuss The Three,
we ​see ​The Three for the first time, just for a very quick moment. And we
see three really beefy, scary, muscular tattooed dudes, and then
immediately, we see walking up the sidewalk, three ​other ​scarier, bigger,
more vamp– vampirous?
Kristin: ​[Dracula-style accent] Vam-​pee​-rous.
Jenny: ​Yes, one of them’s missing an eye, it’s a whole thing. And the guys
who I think we’re meant to understand are sort of neo-Nazis or something,
bikers–
Kristin: ​There’s definitely a skinhead kind of vibe.
Jenny: ​It’s intense. They scatter, like cockroaches! Which leads us–
Kristin: ​Wow, Jenny! Did you just accidentally–
Jenny: ​Yes!
Kristin: ​–do that beautiful transition?
Jenny: ​I sure did! And that takes us to the Bronze, where they’re having a
pre-fumigation party, which is an annual event where you can catch a
cockroach, because there are just cockroaches, free-range, all over your
business, that’s fine!


Kristin: ​But what is going on, and why is everybody so chill about the
cockroaches?
Jenny: ​It’s a tradition! [singing ​Fiddler on the Roof’s ​“Tradition”]
“Tra-di-tiooooon” Every year!
Kristin: ​There’s like, a person that picks one up and is like, laughing with it!
Jenny: ​“Ha, ha, ha!” No.
Kristin: ​As a person who lived in New York City for fifteen years, let me tell
you what, I would still not pick a cockroach up by its leg. No thanks– Nobody
picks a cock–
Jenny: ​That is the whimsical delight of someone who has only lived in
Southern California, where cockroaches are just like, a once-in-a-while
proposition–
Kristin: ​Like locusts? Like, once every seven years?
Jenny: ​Yeah, but it’s not the kind of thing you live in fear of, in constant
fear of, in Southern California.
Kristin: ​I just was amazed at how chill they all were, about the
cockroaches.
Jenny: ​Yeah, no, gross.
Kristin: ​Willow smashes one with her foot, holds her shoe up to Xander’s
face, and says, “Do you want to get a drink?” Like, what?
Jenny: ​[sings] No!
Kristin: ​Free drink for a cockroach!
Jenny: ​Absolutely not.
Kristin: ​Can I tell you a story about cockroaches and drinks?


Jenny:​ [unsure] Please?
Kristin: ​I’m sorry. It’s just– When I moved to New York, I was only– I had
only been living there for a couple of months, which is noted by the fact that
I was going to get dinner at Jekyll and Hyde’s.
Jenny: ​Nope!!
Kristin: ​Sorry. If you don’t know, Jekyll and Hyde’s is a very touristy, you
know, haunted restaurant where you can go get food, and I went to Jekyll
and Hyde’s and I ordered– also note the year, 2000, when I was drinking
Diet Coke, I ordered a Diet Coke, and I drank my Diet Coke, and upon
drinking my Diet Coke, once the brown liquid disappeared, revealing a clear
glass that I could see through, there was a cockroach–
Jenny: ​[sings] No!
Kristin: ​–in my drink, and I was only 19, so it didn’t occur to me that it was
bizarre that the restaurant was like, “Oh, so sorry about that, we’ll take that
off your bill.”
Jenny: ​Ugh!
Kristin: ​They took ​just ​the Diet Coke!
Jenny: ​[sweetly] “We’ll take that dollar-fifty off your bill, ma’am.”
Kristin: ​Yes! They just took the Diet Coke off my bill and I was like,
[high-pitched] “Thank you!” Like, what?
Jenny: ​No. Nope. NO! Absolutely not.
Kristin: ​Anyhow.
Jenny: ​Ok, so now we can talk about Xander’s dancing.
Kristin: ​Now we can talk about Xander’s dancing. I keep talking about
wanting to make gifs and not doing it, mostly because I don’t know how– I


mean, I do know how, but it takes me a very long time. If anyone out there
could ​please ​make a gif of Xander’s dance at the Bronze–
Jenny: ​[excited] Oof!
Kristin: ​Oh, it’s so fantastic.
Jenny: ​It’s really good.
Kristin: ​He’s cuttin’ a rug, for sure.
Jenny: ​He’s getting it.
Kristin: ​That’s where that phrase came from, I think, is from this scene.
Jenny: ​With like, shears. And then, AND THEN!
Kristin: ​Yes, Jenny, what?
Jenny: ​We see Cordeeelia, we see Cordelia for the first time in what feels
like forever.
Kristin: ​Yes! A whole episode went by without our beloved Cordelia.
Jenny: ​And she pops up just to slide a little dagger between Xander’s ribs–
Kristin: ​Xander’s ribs, yup–
Jenny: ​And then he says, mmmm–
Kristin: ​Yeah, I know.
Jenny: ​And then he says something.
Kristin: ​I was gonna skip it because, ugh, there’s so much with Xander.
We’ve been talking about Xander so much these first few episodes.
Jenny: ​Right, right, right. He says an uncool thing.


Kristin: ​He has an unfortunate– He says an uncool thing. And you know,
you don’t have to skip it. I was just personally like– I didn’t write a note
down because I was like, “You know what, Xander? I’m going to give you a
pass on this episode.” Just gonna let–
Jenny: ​I feel like he’s pretty mild in this episode.
Kristin: ​He is pretty mild. You know, we’ve gotten some feedback from you
all about Xander, and some of you have been, you know, some of you have
been like, “Well, he’s a teenage boy, and he has a crush, and he can’t– he
doesn’t understand what to do.” So, on some counts of that reasoning, I
say, “no, no, I will continue to be upset about some of the things Xander’s
done,” but on some counts, I do say, “touche, we can give Xander a little bit
of space here, some moments.”
Jenny: ​It’s a spectrum.
Kristin: ​Yes!
Jenny: ​He’s not, you know, exemplifying things that we really hate, one
hundred percent of the time. Right?
Kristin:​ [laughs] What a compliment, Jenny.
Jenny: ​Well, the thing is, I feel like some people who have reached out to
us maybe have taken it personally, and I can certainly sympathize with
embarrassing behavior or behavior that I wouldn't be, you know, the most
proud of, under the influence of like, a staggering crush. Like, I think we can
all understand that. But what I think you and I are trying to discuss is the
fact that just because, say, in 1997 the standard for the way that behavior
was portrayed in mass media was troubling. You know, just because it was
everywhere doesn’t mean that it’s not troubling. And just because
somebody’s lashing out because they are hurting and they don’t know how
to deal with it, doesn’t mean we can’t say, there’s a lot of a particular type
of language that’s going on here that doesn’t feel good, doesn’t feel right in
the context of looking back from 2016, from this year.
Kristin: ​Right, right.


Jenny: ​Did I miss anything?
Kristin: ​[snaps fingers]
Jenny: ​Oh, thank you.
Kristin: ​I’m snapping for Jenny. So well delivered.
Jenny: ​Gosh, thanks.
Kristin: ​I did want to point out, too, that all of the feedback that we’ve
gotten, in a positive light, has been from men. [both laugh] All the people
who have said, “But Xander!” Not one female has written us to say, “Stop
ragging on Xander!” Sorry, I just wanted to say that because I think it’s
funny and because I wanted a perfect moment in which to say, the
patriarchy!
Jenny: ​The patriarchy!
Kristin: ​But we really do hear what you’re saying and I think it’s really
fascinating-- I mean, we’ll see what’s possible and who we can pull together
and if this even happens, but we’ve talked a little bit about getting a few
people in on this-Jenny: ​For a Xander feelings atrium? A very special episode of Buffy the
Vampire Slayer?
Kristin: ​Let’s talk about it!
Jenny: ​Yeah, because I wanna stress again that we’re not-- there are men
in this show who are doing a great job.
Kristin: ​Like Giles?
Jenny: ​And Angel?
Kristin: ​Yeah, Angel...


Jenny: ​Even the Master hasn’t been a misogynist! And he’s a vampire-- he
doesn’t even have a soul!
Kristin: ​[laughs]​ ​It’s true, he really has a lot of respect for Darla.
Jenny: ​Seriously!
Kristin: ​OK, we’ve really gone off here-- but I think for a good cause;
there’s a lot of chatter about this.
Jenny: ​And we appreciate the people who have written to us to outline their
positions and bring things to light that maybe we weren’t aware of. So
thanks for writing.
Kristin: ​Yeah.
Jenny: ​You can always write us an email at bufferingthevampireslayer at
gmail dot com.
Kristin: ​Yeah. So, we get to-- right before the credits we see Angel in the
lighting-- in the Angel lighting. I’ll call it ‘Angel lighting’ from now on. Always
standing by a mini-blind.
Jenny: ​Right right right, and Buffy leaves and then runs into the three-they get her by the arms and then we cut to the credits. We come back from
the credits and ​some​body shows up.
Kristin: ​Angel! Angel shows up and they’re fighting-Jenny: ​This is a-- [imitates] ‘good dogs don’t bite!’-- and he’s got, like, his
fighting underbite going on, and it’s really great.
Kristin: ​It’s a really great fight scene. There are actually like a couple of
amazing fight moves in this episode.
Jenny: ​You like that double-kick?


Kristin: ​Oh, my god! Buffy’s, like, scissor-kick! She throws her legs up in a
split, kicking both of the people on either side of her-- two members of the
three.
Jenny: ​Pretty impressive.
Kristin: ​Pretty amazing. And then she says ‘run’, which I think is-Jenny: ​Indicative of something.
Kristin: ​Yeah, I mean, has she run? Has she run yet, from anyone? I think
it’s very un-Buffy.
Jenny: ​Well, I think you’ve got to take into consideration too, she thinks
she’s fighting three very strong vampires with, like, a guy. Just a human
dude.
Kristin: ​Right, she doesn’t understand that she has equal strength.
Jenny:​ Right right right, so she’s protecting him as much as self-preserving.
Kristin: ​So they run, and they run directly into Buffy’s house. And this is a
big moment.
Jenny: ​A big moment.
Kristin: ​Yeah, go ahead, Jenny.
Jenny: ​I mean, there’s a couple things-Kristin: ​She looked at me like ‘you stop it right now, I have something to
say!’
Jenny: ​[high pitched] Nooo! I’m just so excited because there are a couple
of things I wanna talk about, because obviously you’ve now watched the
episode so you know Angel’s a vampire, plus you heard us say it a minute
ago. But it’s very ​convenient ​that Buffy happens to be saying, ‘Come on, get
inside, get inside,’ just as they’re running in. And then, I want to point out to
you that one of the Three’s hand comes inside the house, and that is...


non-continuous with the way that house-entry and vampires is treated later
in the series. I’m interested to see if there’s a development, if we see
another hand like this going into a door again, or-- because it’s like a
forcefield in later episodes.
Kristin: ​Yeah, and from what I’ve read, too, about this episode, they really
singled this out as a misstep.
Jenny: ​Gotcha.
Kristin: ​Like, as an accidental, this should not have happened-- and I think
that what I read is that this doesn’t ever happen again. They can’t get body
parts in a house where they haven’t been invited. So this is just a mistake.
Jenny: ​Body--?​ ​What a weird way to say it.
Kristin: ​But we learn-- I mean, this episode is huge, because we’re putting
together a lot of the vampire mythology that exists in the land of Buffy,
right? So now we get this first bit-- they cannot come in unless invited.
Right?
Jenny: ​Mmhmm.
Kristin: ​And then we get-- I don’t know, should we talk a little bit about
some of those bits, or should we wait until we get to them chronologically?
Jenny: ​Let’s go chronologically if that’s cool.
Kristin: ​OK, great, because next chronologically, Angel is nakeeeed!
Jenny: ​Oh my god. Oh my god. Oh my god.
Kristin: ​Shirtless, but -Jenny: ​Right before she tells him to take his shirt off, I just wanna mention
this. Just after they get that hand out of the door, you see this beautiful
thing-- this beautiful shot of the Three through the bevelled glass, which is
really nice, and then later that’s like mirrored? You see-- I think Joyce-through the bevelled glass, in that whole Darla and Joyce exchange later on.


Kristin: ​Ohhh.
Jenny: ​I thought that was such a nice detail that they brought back again
later. I wanted to point it out.
Kristin: ​Yeah, I did notice it with the Three-- the way that they’re like
doubled in the cut of the glass.
Jenny: ​I did not want to distract you from Angel’s shirt being off.
Kristin:​ Oh, Angel’s shirt is off-- my note, my literal note in all caps, is
‘NAKED ANGEL HUBBA HUBBA’.
Jenny: ​Oh my god.
Kristin:​ What was yours?
Jenny:​ Well, first I wrote ‘SHIRTLESS ANGEL NICE TATTOO’ in all caps.
Kristin:​ Uh huh.
Jenny: ​And then… Joyce shows up and my follow up comment was, ‘Joyce is
into ​it-- god, what a babe’.
Kristin:​ Oh, Angel is just so dreamy.
Jenny: ​Like, Joyce wants to be mad that there’s some older boy in the
house, but she ​clearly ​is like, ‘Buffy! ​Nice​!’
Kristin:​ There’s a moment when she’s about to go up the stairs. She’s done
her mom bit of, ‘I’m going to bed... ​Buffy​’, right? And she looks at Buffy and
she like, purses her lips in this particularly amazing way. I love Joyce. Joyce
is just...
Jenny: ​Yeah, she’s so great.
Kristin:​ God, she’s great. But yes, so she’s like... OK, glad Buffy is dating
this super-hot hunk, but you’re a teenager and he has to leave now.


Jenny: ​Right.
Kristin:​ And then, here’s the deal.
Jenny: ​[snickers]
Kristin:​ Buffy, like, opens the door and says to no-one, ‘See you later, we’ll
study, bye!’, and then closes the door and then four sets of feet go up the
stairs into her room and they close the door.
Jenny: ​And then they continue to have a conversation.
Kristin:​ Full volume.
Jenny: ​That’s not how it works in your parents’ house.
Kristin:​ Right? I mean, that was my question-- like, in my house, first of all
my mother would have stood on the steps until the person left the house...
Jenny: ​Yeah.
Kristin:​ And if I had ever tried to get anyone into my room-- I mean, it just
was not possible.
Jenny: ​Not feasible.
Kristin:​ I wasn’t even able-- I know this is not true for you-- but I was not
able to sneak out of my home.
Jenny: ​Uh! Hey! Shh! [innocently] What, me? Sneak out? Never!
Kristin:​ [laughs] I know from your stories that you have snuck out of your
house.
Jenny: ​I don’t know what...
Kristin:​ Jenny, admit it!


Jenny:​ I’ve snuck out, I’ve snuck out a bunch! I was a bad kid-- I was a
good kid living a bad life!
Kristin:​ [laughs] But I couldn’t have done that-- I was on the second floor,
too, which made it a little more difficult, ‘cause I would have to get
downstairs and… but there was just no way. I was not sneaking out. You
were sneaking out. But neither of us was having Angel talk at full volume in
our rooms without anyone noticing.
Jenny:​ No.
Kristin:​ What is Joyce doing? I imagine Joyce with her headphones in in a
bubble bath, so maybe-Jenny: ​Totally, and candles? For sure.
Kristin:​ Also, just like to say one more time, the scenes in Buffy’s bedroom?
Netflix versus DVD, so dramatically different with the lighting.
Jenny: ​Yeah, a lot of the night time stuff-- really noticeable.
Kristin:​ Yeah, um, so… no, go ahead, go ahead.
Jenny: ​I was just gonna say, so, Buffy sleeps in an underwire bra?
Kristin:​ Oh, I would sleep in my bra if I had a guest.
Jenny: ​I would if Angel was there, totally. But also like, ugh, so
uncomfortable. Think about going back to that life.
Kristin:​ But yeah, I would’ve been right there. I mean, what is she gonna
do, take her bra off? Angel’s there and she wants to-- it’s fine.
Jenny: ​[skeptical] Mmhm.
Kristin:​ I get it, Buffy, I’m with you. Plus Angel has just said how pretty she
looks.
Jenny: ​[whispers]​ ​Right.


Kristin:​ Even when she’s going to bed.
Jenny: ​Mmhmm.
Kristin:​ Anyway. So, I think one of the next moments here is… The night
has ended, or-- we fade out on the scene of them falling asleep. We do find
out that Angel has not-- no one has been around to hear if Angel snores or
not-Jenny:​ [wistfully] In a long time!
Kristin:​ In a long time, ‘cause remember? Calling back to, I think it was the
second episode? Angel doesn’t have any friends! [both laugh] Poor sad, dark
Angel. But then we go to the high school and this-- did I miss something?
Jenny: ​Sorry, I just wanted to say two things before we leave Buffy’s
bedroom. First of all she’s sleeping on that doily pillow.
Kristin:​ Your favourite pillow. You love it.
Jenny: ​It is so extreme. It is the lumpiest pillowcase I have ever seen in my
life, go back and check it out. And second, the theme-- the musical theme
that plays as they’re going to sleep, it’s-- you should go back and listen to it,
it’s very beautiful, haunting, it kind of sounds like an 80s horror movie sort
of gentle moment theme?
Kristin:​ I don’t even recall it. I’ll have to go back and watch.
Jenny: ​It’s just this sort of arpeggiated, kind of minor-y thing, and it sounds
spooky but I also-- when it came back a second time later in the episode I
was like, oh is ​this ​the love theme? Because they have like themes for the
different couplings that happen or whatever?
Kristin:​ Right right right.
Jenny: ​And I really should have checked it out before we started talking
about it, but I think it’s worth even going back to take a listen, because it’s


very beautiful. I just wanted to point out-- I’m really all about the small
moments of beauty in this episode?
Kristin:​ Yeah, you were like, [romantic voice] ‘The bevelled glass... the love
song, playing softly…’
Jenny: ​Sorry!
Kristin:​ OK, so after Jenny’s favourite love song...
Jenny: ​[bursts out laughing]
Kristin:​ [laughs] Then we get to my favourite sign in a high school, which
is, ‘Library Closed for Filing’. Like, what? You guys.
Jenny: ​Oh my god. Oh my god.
Kristin:​ They’ve closed the library for ​filing​. Also, do-Jenny: ​I mean, thank god they ​finally ​fucking did something to keep people
out of the library while Buffy is, like, beating the crap out of Giles.
Kristin:​ I mean personally I would have loved if they had just kept with the
theme of ‘no one ever goes into the library’, you know what I mean?
Jenny: ​Yeah.
Kristin:​ But I do really appreciate this sign, and we find out...
Jenny: ​They’ve been listening to the podcast!
Kristin:​ [laughs] We find out what-- last week, or two weeks ago, when we
were doing episode six we were like, what’s the deal with this library cage?
Jenny: ​Yeah, what’s locked up in there?
Kristin:​ Well, um...
Jenny:​ Among other things...


Kristin:​ Among other things, some serious weaponry.
Jenny:​ Yes, some [hesitantly] quarterstaffs? Quarterstaves?
Kristin:​ Quarterstaves, and…
Jenny:​ And a crossbow...
Kristin:​ Crossbows.
Jenny:​ Pads...
Kristin:​ Right, so, you know, we train... Buffy knocks poor Giles-Jenny:​ Poor Giles!
Kristin:​ Like, couldn’t they have a person whose job it is to be a little
younger and more fit, to...?
Jenny:​ Aaaww, Giles is fit!
Kristin:​ He is, remarkably! But I just, every time Giles gets hit, even if it’s
by Buffy in a training session, I’m like, oh god, his body! He’s a librarian!
He’s from the UK. He’s fragile! He drinks out of a green mug, someday.
Jenny:​ Oof.
Kristin:​ I can’t wait till we get to the green mug.
Jenny:​ That’s gonna be a good time in our lives.
Kristin:​ The only spoiler that we’ve ever had on this podcast...
Jenny:​ Oh my god, is Giles’ green mug?!
Kristin:​ … is letting you know that there’s a green mug. Um, but yeah,
that’s all I had for this bit because the next big thing that I have is back with
Angel again.


Jenny:​ Right, back up in Buffy’s room. Oh, my, god. What did you do today?
[impersonating husky Angel voice] ‘I did some reading and I thought about
a lot of things...’ And then she immediately assumes that he was reading her
diary​!
Kristin:​ She loses! Her ​mind​!
Jenny:​ Oh my god. ‘Hunk can mean a lot of things’ is my ​favourite​.
Kristin:​ And she says...
Jenny:​ ‘Some of them bad!’
Kristin:​ ‘Some of them very bad!’
Jenny:​ [laughs]
Kristin:​ And then the thing that ​I​ loved was when she was like, ‘I know I
said your eyes were ​penetrating, ​but what I meant to say was that they
were’-Jenny:​ Bulging!
Kristin:​ ​Bulging​!
Jenny:​ [laughs squeakily]
Kristin: ​Like, Buffy, you’re not-Jenny:​ ‘And A doesn’t even stand for Angel, it stands for Ahmed, a
charming foreign exchange student’ … [skeptically] OK.
Kristin:​ [amused sigh] It’s a good moment.
Jenny:​ [high pitched sassy tone] Giiirl!
Kristin:​ It’s a good moment, and I mean, Angel and Buffy have a million
moments, I feel like, where-- obviously she knows she’s not convincing him


otherwise.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ She’s a very smart human, she knows she’s not. And he knows
she’s not. And they’re-- it’s like they’re both in on this kind of flirting by way
of pretending they don’t like each other.
Jenny:​ Right.
Kristin:​ Which has really been their vibe up until now. Angel is like, ‘I’m not
interested’, you know, ‘I’m removed, I disappear all the time, I don’t care’.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ And Buffy is like, ‘No, I don’t like him, what are you talking about, I
would never like him’.
Jenny:​ Gross!
Kristin:​ ‘Except for [getting louder] oh my god I like him ​so much​!’
Jenny:​ [whooping laugh] And then they ​kiss​!
Kristin:​ And then they kiss.
Jenny:​ Great work.
Kristin:​ Yeah, all in all, great job. What a kiss.
Jenny:​ Yeah, this is really an episode that fuelled a lot of intense dreams for
a lot of junior high and high school students around this time I’m sure.
Kristin:​ Yeah, everybody wants to be-- well, not everybody-- but a lot of us
want to be kissed like that.
Jenny:​ Yeah, that was good.
Kristin:​ It’s a kiss!


Jenny:​ Great job.
Kristin:​ It’s kind of on the level of-- well, maybe not on this level-- but the
Ross and Rachel kiss, you know? That kiss?
Jenny:​ Uhhhh, I gotta trust you on this one.
Kristin:​ Are you kidding me? Really? You don’t?
Jenny:​ I’m sure I’ve seen it, I just can’t remember.
Kristin:​ It’s just like one of the-- you’ve waited, the thing with Ross and
Rachel is you’ve waited, for those of you who might not know what I’m
talking about-Jenny:​ Spoilers for ​Friends​!
Kristin:​ [amused] Spoilers for ​Friends​!
Jenny:​ Season three?
Kristin:​ I don’t even know. But you’ve waited so long for that kiss. And it’s
a really incredible television kiss. It’s in the doorway and they-- whatever.
But this, this gets me. This is one of those kisses, like if I had to rank
television kisses-Jenny:​ Imagine if that was your-- you ​had ​to!
Kristin:​ Kristin, you’re not allowed to-Jenny:​ Go! Go! Go!
Kristin:​ [strict voice] You’re not allowed to leave until you’ve ranked
television kisses! So, right, so Angel’s a vampire. Holy crap!
Jenny:​ [snickers]
Kristin:​ Imagine having-- like, seriously, you have this incredibly passionate


moment.
Jenny:​ Mm-hmm.
Kristin:​ Your whole damn life just revolves around vampires, you’re finally
like-- I’m obviously in the mind of Buffy here-- you’re finally like, oh my god,
this guy! I’m kissing him, he’s kissing me, this is wonderful, I’m escaping.
For just one small moment I’m escaping from the constant tormenting of
approaching armageddon, and then.
Jenny:​ And then.
Kristin:​ He morphs into a terrifying vampire.
Jenny:​ [groan of sadness/frustration]
Kristin:​ Makeup of which, we have read in our Watcher’s Guide, took at
least 90 minutes to put on his face.
Jenny:​ Yeah!
Kristin:​ And then he runs.
Jenny:​ [sighing] Oh, god, he just dives out of that window.
Kristin:​ He dives. He dives. And that’s-- obviously we’ve all seen the
episode now so we understand what’s going on here, but as you’re first
watching this it’s like, ‘well ​this ​is an interesting development!’ He’s a
vampire who’s not interested in hurting her. He’s trying to get away from
her.
Jenny:​ This is the first vampire that we’ve seen do that.
Kristin:​ Yes. So, OK, so Angel’s a vampire, and that’s actually what we hear
in the next scene from the mouth of Xander.
Jenny:​ Right right right. He’s like, ‘He’s a vampire, you’re a slayer-- you do
the math!’ And, God, Willow has so many great, like, very dry moments in
this episode.


Kristin:​ She really does.
Jenny:​ And some of them happen here, and then there’s that vamp-Xander says, ‘You’re in love with a ​vampire​? Are you out of your ​mind​?’ And
then Cordelia’s like, ‘​What?​’ -- out of nowhere.
Kristin:​ Out of heaven!
Jenny:​ But of course, she is not even listening to Xander-- she is distressed
because another girl has a dress that is identical to hers, and she says-Kristin:​ And she says, ‘This is what happens with free trade’, right?
Jenny:​ [laughs] Yeah, ‘This is what happens when we sign free trade
agreements’.
Kristin:​ God, Cordelia!
Jenny:​ Look at her go!
Kristin:​ Look at your layers. Just look at ‘em!
Jenny:​ So many layers.
Kristin:​ She’s so upset about the knock-off dress. And unlike Buffy in this
episode, she’s got history on lock here, she knows her government policy.
She understands why knock-off dresses can happen. Ohhh, it’s great. And I
think actually-- well, first, when we are talking about Cordelia-- this is really
Cordelia’s big moment, and I wanna talk about an article that we shared on
Twitter a bit ago. It was a New York Times cover story called ‘Buffy is Sweet,
16 and Slaying Vampires’, written-- when was this episode? What did you
say? April what?
Jenny:​ Ooh, it’s uh, April 14th.
Kristin:​ This article was April 27th 1997, so it’s-Jenny:​ A couple weeks later.


Kristin:​ Yeah, just a couple weeks later. And it’s a really brilliant article, it’s
less a review and more-- I mean I guess it’s kind of a review? But it’s more
just an article about the show.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ And there’s a lot of amazing quotes in here, but one of them is Joss
Whedon talking about Buffy and Buffy’s, you know, depth of character, and
then Cordelia and how she sort of like, sneers and things, and rolls her eyes
a bunch and blah blah blah. And he says, ‘Buffy could have become just like
Cordelia if she hadn’t been the slayer. She’s an outsider and she gravitates
toward outsiders in her new school.’ Which I thought was such a cool, I don’t
know, like a dichotomy that exists in the show, but it was just put very well
in this-- [sarcastically] surprisingly! Joss Whedon put it well about his own
characters. But that, you know, Cordelia has this-- Buffy has this depth to
her because she’s an outsider, but we’ll see Cordy in more depth, I think, as
the series goes forward.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ But for now she’s just talking about knock-off dresses.
Jenny:​ Who was that article by? Just in case anybody wants to look it up.
Because there were some great little zingers in there.
Kristin:​ I think all I did was googled ‘Buffy the Vampire Slayer New York
Times’ and it was one of the first links to come up, but it’s by Justine Elias,
E-L-I-A-S. ‘Buffy is Sweet, 16 and Slaying Vampires’.
Jenny:​ Nice.
Kristin:​ But yeah, so, Cordelia-- I don’t know if you know this, but we love
you.
Jenny:​ We do.
[Cordelia jingle plays]


Jenny:​ So then we see Angel’s place for the first time.
Kristin:​ Like-- where is it?
Jenny:​ It’s around.
Kristin:​ In my mind, it’s in the Bronze. Like, in my mind, his apartment is
underneath the Bronze or next to the Bronze.
Jenny:​ I think he’s very close to the Bronze.
Kristin:​ OK. I mean, the Bronze from the outside too looks kind of like staff
warehouses. It seems like there’s a lot of warehouse activity over there.
Jenny:​ Yeah, he’s in the warehouse district! [Kristin laughs] So it looks like
Angel has acquired, or just dug out of storage, another leather jacket that
he can wear since Buffy has his duster, right?
Kristin:​ Right.
Jenny:​ He’s got this hip-length leather jacket.
Kristin:​ [into it] Yeah!
Jenny:​ And there he is, just-Kristin:​ Well, I mean, we also know-- some of the incredible facts we’ve
gathered about this episode-Jenny:​ Oh yeah!
Kristin:​ That that jacket-Jenny:​ The duster, the long one, yeah?
Kristin:​ Yeah, I think so. People are losing their minds about his jacket. It
cost a thousand dollars.
Jenny:​ It’s in, like, every Wikipedia article, IMDB fun facts...


Kristin:​ Everyone is like, ‘just so you know...’
Jenny:​ [dramatic voice] ‘You can’t even believe it… this leather jacket!’
Kristin:​ ‘It cost one! Thousand! Dollars!’ Which, I don’t know, we didn’t do
the math on what a thousand dollars in 1997 would be in 2016, but I just
feel like nobody really cares if a costume piece costs a thousand or two
thousand dollars-- you know what I mean? But I don’t know. Anyway.
Jenny:​ Different times, different priorities.
Kristin:​ So we’re in Angel’s place-- go ahead.
Jenny:​ Aaand, Darla shows up. She’s there in a Catholic school uniform.
Kristin:​ In this ridi-- ugh.
Jenny:​ Preach! I am into-- I mean.
Kristin:​ Jenny, you like schoolgirl outfits, is that what you’d like to tell the
universe right now?
Jenny:​ I just, like, feel her vibe.
Kristin: ​[laughs] Do you wanna tell them why you’re into-- one of the many
reasons you like a schoolgirl outfit?
Jenny:​ There’s so much to like about them. But I used to wear a schoolgirl
uniform when I first started playing shows. That was like, my fun thing.
Kristin:​ Oh, this is-- that’s a great thing for you to share on our Twitter!
Jenny:​ Oh my god, because I have a picture of me at the A-Camp Midwest
Gothic dance as a vampirous-Kristin: ​Oh, I meant the old picture of-Jenny:​ Oh, I’ll post an old picture of like, back in-the-day Jenny schoolgirl


uniform, and I’ll post a picture from just last month, when I was a vampire
Catholic schoolgirl for the Midwest Gothic dance.
Kristin:​ Yes.
Jenny:​ OK, great, lots of social media...
Kristin:​ In case you’re wondering where you can see pictures of me going to
the prom around the time this aired, and Jenny in her schoolgirl regalia, you
can follow us @bufferingcast on Twitter, or over on Facebook at facebook
dot com slash bufferingcast.
Jenny:​ Yes.
Kristin:​ Yeeees! OK, so have we learned yet that light-- I mean obviously in
most vampire mythology, if not all...
Jenny:​ Yes, we did see it in one of the pilot episodes, when they go looking
for Jesse and...
Kristin:​ Right, there’s like a sewer cover. Right right right.
Jenny:​ Yes, so we have that in the mythology already. But here’s a
question. Why does Angel have blinds that open in his apartment?
Kristin:​ Yeah, solid call.
Jenny:​ I mean, put something a little more permanent and less movable up
there, just in case?
Kristin:​ I mean, he probably just didn’t change it. He probably just moved
in. And also wait, I’m sorry. Did you just ask, why does Angel have blinds? I
think we established very clearly at the beginning of the episode that Angel’s
prime lighting… [both laugh] is through blinds, so! [Jenny laughs] That’s why
Angel has blinds.
Jenny: ​Great point. My mistake, my mistake.
Kristin:​ For when it’s dawn or dusk, and he can get just a light smattering


of striped light on his face.
Jenny:​ Here’s a question. What is-- the thing that Darla says when she
opens up his fridge and is mocking, basically, his blood bags: “You’re not
exactly living off of quiche”? Is that a saying? Is quiche like, a bougie food
and I’m somehow unaware of this fact?
Kristin:​ Well quiche is, I think-- it’s like, talked about like a bougie food,
which is hilarious because it’s certainly not.
Jenny:​ So strange.
Kristin:​ The amount of quiches that my mother made us with like, Store-the crusts that you, you know?
Jenny:​ Right right.
Kristin:​ You know those round crusts that they used to sell, do they still sell
those?
Jenny:​ They must.
Kristin:​ Yeah, quiche was actually a very affordable meal in our household.
But it is, you know, like tiny quiches are fancy.
Jenny:​ What a weird thing.
Kristin:​ But it was a very weird Darla moment.
Jenny:​ Yeah. I’m curious to know who specifically came up with that line.
Kristin:​ Right, right. And so right, Darla, at this moment, is sort of like,
‘good luck with Buffy’...
Jenny:​ Right, ‘Tell her about the curse’...
Kristin:​ Yeah, tell her about it. See what she does! Our ears all perk up.
‘What curse?’


Jenny:​ Right right. But we’re not going to find out yet because we cut to
the library and oh my god, they’re talking about - Giles has been doing
research on Angel, and
Kristin:​ Mmmhmm.
Jenny:​ Xander is scandalized when he finds out that Buffy knows that Angel
has a tattoo on his shoulder and amazing Willow..
Kristin:​ [interrupting] ah ah ah ah! Hold on. Because I just want to give a
moment to Xander here that you just briefly mentioned but like, when…
‘cause he’s like, “I’m not going to say anything,” when she starts, and then
she’s like “I saw this tattoo” and Xander says something like “Well NOW I’m
saying something!”
Jenny:​ Yeah!
Kristin:​ And he gets - he does this like, if you have a second to go back and
watch Xander’s sassy head move, he’s like “well, that’s just it!” It’s really, I,
this is the moment that I wrote down to give a little appreciation to Xander
trying to keep it together but just getting so sassy. He just can’t stand it.
Now go to your Willow. We had to pause so Jenny could write down the
whole quote.
Jenny:​ Yeah. Oh my god. “That must have been so embarrassing when
you thought he’d read your diary but then it turned out he hadn’t but then
he felt the same way!” Ohh, god! It’s so good!
Kristin:​ It really is a great moment.
Jenny:​ This might be the best moment of Willow in the series up to this
point, but then it is possibly trumped or at least equaled just a few short
scenes from now but we’ll talk about that.
Kristin:​ What? When? What are you talking about?
Jenny:​ Uh, when they’re in The Bronze, and Xander’s like ‘We have to
distract them’ and she’s like ‘Buffy, it wasn’t Angel that attacked your mom,
it was Darla!’


Kristin:​ [laughing] Okay, yeah, you’re right. You’re right.
Jenny:​ So many great moments for Willow in this one.
Kristin:​ I forgot, I wrote that down and I forgot. Ok, so the next thing that
I have is back down with the Master.
Jenny:​ Right, right. We’re learning about the history, Angel’s personal
history through Giles & Co.’s research but also through the Master and Darla
talking about it.
Kristin:​ And their history, and we’re learning that Angel, or as they refer to
him… do they say Angelus? We learn that he is, he’s not just any vampire, I
mean, he’s named for his angelic face.
Jenny:​ Nice.
Kristin:​ Which, hold on, because there’s... not to keep quoting this amazing
1997 article, but...
Jenny:​ Oh god, it’s so good.
Kristin:​ But she writes, in that same paragraph where she quotes him
talking about Cordelia, and that Buffy could become just like Cordelia, at the
end of that paragraph, she says: “Another sub-plot involves Buffy’s
fascination with a mysterious young man named Angel, who seems to have
been expelled from the vampire clan for being too gorgeous”. [Both laugh]
so we learn that Angel has been named for his angelic face but we really
gather from this that he is a very dangerous, very like evil, or at least has
been this historical vampire within the vampires’ history.
Jenny:​ Right, right.
Kristin:​ He’s a known dude, he’s a very known dude.
Jenny:​ He got a rep.
Kristin:​ Yes. Exactly. But what I noted about this scene with the Master,


in addition to like, obviously finding out these very important facts about
Angel, is… they have this moment, where the Master is talking about, like,
how much he misses Angel, and Darla has this plan that she’s going to get
Buffy to try to kill Angel thereby Angel will kill Buffy, and the Master is so-this is the only time, maybe not, but I think it’ll be the only time that I talk
about the Master in an endearing way because we all know how I feel about
this man.
Jenny:​ His mouth...
Kristin:​ But, um- yeah, his mouth is less horrible in this episode. I think
they heard me. But, he’s so proud of Darla, like for working with them as a
team and he turns to the Anointed and says like ’this is how a family is
supposed to function.’ And I just thought it was really, it was like this very
nice moment because they don’t have very many moments where they
display feelings for each other, or they haven’t had many up ‘til this point.
And it was just kind of nice to see like, oh there’s this appreciation
happening. It’s kind of all been like The Master just like, you don’t do what
he says, he kills you and that’s the end of it. Whereas in this episode he’s
really wanting to have Darla by his side and to have Angel back in their
ranks, and there’s like a lot of emotion there.
Jenny:​ Yeah. Whew.
Kristin:​ Sooo, that’s all I had to say about that. But yeah, and then we’re
moving right along to where Darla is now framing Angel.
Jenny:​ Right. Darla shows up and bites Joyce.
Kristin:​ After Joyce just so comfortably invites her in, and says like - Joyce
is like, “what do you want to eat? Something big or something small?” Every
answer that Darla gives is like “​Biiig.​” Joyce...
Jenny:​ Joyce, read the room! But I really like, I continue to love Darla’s
delivery throughout this episode, she’s like chewing on every line. So great.
Kristin:​ Yeah. chewing on every line and then chewing on Joyce.
Jenny:​ ...and then chewing on Joyce.


Kristin:​ Um...
Jenny:​ I don’t know - how did you feel about Angel’s sort of like facial
expressions once he was like holding Joyce and like smelling the blood and
stuff?
Kristin:​ I mean, I thought that I was really into this, I thought, Angel has
good moments in this episode where you see him trying to fight this beast.
Jenny:​ Yes! Yes.
Kristin:​ Right? And what’s incredible is he does it with his normal
person-face, but he does it through the prosthetics, too.
Jenny:​ Yeah. yeah.
Kristin:​ Which I think is pretty remarkable. I mean, Jenny can’t even say
four words with her vampire teeth in, let alone convey emotion.
Jenny:​ I sure can’t.
Kristin:​ But yeah, this is really, I mean obviously we know that he is
struggling against this, he- when we watched this for the first time, my first
viewing, I was out-loud saying “No! Oh no! Stop! Please no! This is horrible,
I hate this show!”
Jenny:​ You were so upset.
Kristin:​ I was so upset because then of course Darla runs away, Angel has
turned into his vamp-face, and Buffy walks in.
Jenny:​ Shout-out to Darla for this incredible timing.
Kristin:​ Yeah, the timing is really - what’s funny is, like, I feel like there’s
kind of a side-eye to the timing. Because she’s in the library when Buffy is
like “Well, in about a half an hour, we’ll wrap up” and Darla like, sets her
stopwatch and runs.


Jenny:​ Oh my god.
Kristin:​ Buffy’s just very punctual with what she says.
Jenny:​ Oh my god, and then we get that great cut back to just, Angel being
thrown through the plate glass window. Spoiler: That is not the last time
we’re going to see that plate glass window go up in shards.
Kristin:​ Yeah but hey, this is like a big thing here because Buffy has just
thrown him out the window, like, Buffy didn’t go after-Jenny:​ She didn’t kill him.
Kristin:​ No, she didn’t even try to kill him. She just threw him through the
window. And like...
Jenny:​ And said “You’re not welcome here.”
Kristin:​ “You’re not welcome here” - he, I mean he didn’t try to kill Joyce
but in her mind, he has just tried to kill her mother. Feelings are running
deeper here than I think Buffy’s even able to admit to herself because it’s
not just- it was one thing when she’s justifying it because he hasn’t hurt her,
he hasn’t tried to hurt her, how can she, whatever.
Jenny:​ Yeah.
Kristin:​ In this moment, this would be the moment when she goes after him
and she doesn’t. She does wind up saying she’s going to go after him later,
but her instinct is not to kill him. So that’s a big deal.
Jenny:​ Right. So, we go to the library [laughs] the library, we always go to
the library. We go to the hospital, where Joyce is in recovery. And I just
want to point out that when Darla comes over, Joyce is wearing lipstick and
it’s sort of like, it’s a medium, it’s like a, it’s not like a pale, it’s like a ‘90s
shade of lipstick, it is “Hello, I am present.” And then, in the hospital, where
she’s lying, she’s completely lipstick-less. So what I want to know...
Kristin:​ Do they take your lipstick off when you go to the hospital?


Jenny:​ Is there some medical reason that that would be the case?
Kristin:​ Probably it was just an inconsistency.
Jenny:​ Okay, I’ll accept that. Um, well, we, let’s see. We’ve got this really
interesting thing that I don’t think we’ve seen before on the show. Where
Buffy basically makes her declaration, she’s like “[groans] I’ll end this, ahh
Rambo!” and we get scenes of her stringing a crossbow and doing target
practice…
Kristin:​ Oh yeah, with that like smoking ad.
Jenny:​ ...with the weird poster, and intercut with Darla taunting Angel and
trying to like, egg him on, and basically we’re like feeling, we’re having
Angel’s struggles sort of like articulated for us by Darla, by this other party,
which I thought was really interesting, and sort of like going back and forth
between the dramatic crossbow prep and Darla basically being like “This is
what you are, be what you are.”
Kristin:​ Right, but as we learn, he can’t be what he is because of this curse
that we learn about, right? That he tells… that’s how we learn about it right?
He’s telling Buffy that he was a horrible vampire, he devoured millions of
people with abandon, and then he fed on this young girl, he says about
Buffy’s age, and she happened to be a very respected member of the
‘Romanis’? Is that Jenny:​ I believe that’s what Kristin:​ How you pronounce that? I wrote it down and now I forgot how
they said it.
And so, the leader of the Romanis puts a curse on him. And what a curse
indeed: that he will stay as a vampire, but he will have a soul, and so we
learn in this moment that vampires don’t have souls, right?
Jenny:​ Right, so they have no conscience basically about what they’re
doing.
Kristin: ​Which makes a lot of sense, given what we’ve already seen of


vampires. But Angel has a soul.
Jenny: ​And he really nails it in when he says “You have no idea what it’s like
to have done the things that I’ve done, and to ​care​”. Woooh! That’s a chilly
line
Kristin: ​It is, I just watched you get the chills saying that.
Jenny:​ [Laughs]
Kristin:​ And then we have this moment between Angel and Buffy right,
where he says ,“I wanted to kill you tonight.” She has put her crossbow
down on the ground, she walks directly up to him, she like, tilts her head to
the side and says, “go ahead”. And this is, like, I feel like this a huge
underlying piece of their relationship. What happens here is she says “I’m
going to trust you” - or like, “test you” I guess is more the thing, but there is
an element of trust here, because she’s put her weapon down and she
knows at this point how strong he is. And she is trusting him! She’s curious
in a way where she’s saying “I think I know more about you than, like, I
should even know at this point, but I feel -”
Jenny:​ Maybe more than you know about you.
Kristin: ​Right, maybe more than you know about you. And then to
transition us from that very meaningful moment, the next thing that
happens
Jenny:​ Oh Jeez Kristin:​ I also wrote the quote for, because then Darla busts in and she says
“Do you know what the saddest thing in the world is?” and we get this great
Buffy’s quip: “Bad hair on top of that outfit?” Da dun dun, tsssh. Always.
Even in a moment when she’s falling in love and about to die perhaps, we
get this great clip. And then we learn that Darla sired Angel.
Jenny:​ Oh my God!
Kristin: ​And we learn that Darla and Angel have a history together.


Jenny:​ ​Oh my ​God!
Kristin:​ And then we learn that Darla has two guns.
[Laughter]
Jenny: ​We do, and this should be the head scratcher moment of the episode
where it stops working, but for some reasonKristin:​ Yeah, we go with it right?
Jenny:​ Yeah, I mean maybe just because she’s like, she’s so committed to
like everything in this whole episode that for some reason it feels right.
Kristin: ​Right. And of course there would never be-- those guns would
never hold that many rounds in them to be shooting-- this is a silly thing but
it does give us the other move that I was talking about. There were two
great fight moves and this is a great fucking fight move where Buffy grabs
Darla by the ankles. She’s on the pool table, Buffy grabs her by the ankles,
pulls her feet out from underneath her and then pushes the pool table and
as the pool table is sliding backwards Darla is just firing both guns! So great!
Jenny: ​So goofy
Kristin: ​So so so so great. So ya, and then this is also the moment we have
with Willow where she-- which you already talked about where we need a
distraction so Willow decides “I know what to do, I’m just gonna shout at the
top of my lungs” ya, and then-Jenny: ​Oh my god.
Kristin: ​And then we get to I think another-- maybe one of our final pivotal
moments in this episode, which is that Angel kills Darla.
Jenny: ​I just got chills again.
Kristin: ​Which is huge, like this isn’t just him killing a vampire, this is him
killing the vampire who made him,


Jenny: ​Who made him and shared his life for a hundred years or whatever.
Kristin: ​Ya. They’ve lived many lifetimes together and-- I mean we’ve
already heard Buffy sort of admit that she’s falling in love with Angel, but it
is blatantly clear that his feelings-- I mean they run deep enough for him to
kill this person who has made him, despite maybe her being evil or
whatever. They have a connection here- so this is a huge moment.
And then we see the master having his temper tantrum.
Jenny: ​Yes
Kristin: ​It was a very enjoyable moment when he’s like (makes muffled
noises) slamming everything
Jenny: ​Oh my god.
Kristin: ​But whatever. Can we just skip that the master has the temper
tantrum? And then we go to the Bronze! Jenny what happens at the Bronze?
(singingly)
Jenny: ​Well first of all, it’s the post fumigation party.
Kristin: ​Ya, where apparently the cockroaches are bigger. I don’t
understand.
Jenny: ​ Yeah, they’ve just bulked up. And Buffy’s like “Gosh I just feel like
Angel is still watching me for some reason.”
Jenny and Kristin: ​And Willow’s like “It’s ‘cause he’s-Jenny: ​ “.. actually watching you right now” (Jenny’s voice gets higher as
she finishes the quote)
So Buffy goes to talk to him and they have this like very beautiful, close
moment where they’re like “This can’t happen.”
Kristin: ​Ya. Well Angel is like “This can’t ever be anything.”
Jenny: ​Right, right, right. But then they kiss.


Kristin: ​But then they kiss!
Jenny: ​And it’s like whatever. I think it’s like supposed to be-- they’re trying
to make it a goodbye kiss but it doesn’t really feel like a goodbye kiss, it
doesn’t.
Kristin: ​It sure doesn’t!
Jenny: ​And she’s like “What’s up?” and he’s like “That was painful.” and she
walks away and you see that the cross necklace that he gave her, she was
wearing just like burned a little cross into his perfect, hairless chest.
Kristin: ​And if you’re me, after you see this scene you turn to your right and
you see your wife (Jenny laughs) clutching her che-- like, her right hand was
literally to her heart and I was like “Jenny, do you see what you’re doing
right now?”
Jenny: ​I like what I like.
Kristin: ​You really do! And I wanna say here, not to get too personal, and I
know we’ve been talking for quite a bit. This is a big episode so-Jenny: ​A lot to say.
Kristin: ​We had a lot to say but, I wrote down “This can’t ever be anything.”
in quotes and I quoted it to Angel slash Jenny.
Jenny: ​Uhhh gotta go
Kristin: ​Because it occurred to me that our relationship - minus the vampire
elements - had a similar--- (Jenny laughs) the amount of times that you said
to me, “This won’t ever be anything.” “This can’t ever be anything.” “This is
not gonna be something.”
Jenny: ​Hurumpf
Kristin: ​Hurumpf is right. And then just like Buffy and Angel...
Jenny: ​Oh my god, do you think they’re gonna get married in seven years?


Kristin: ​Maybe.
Jenny: ​Yayyyy!
Kristin: ​And then they’ll do a podcast about our life?
Jenny: ​Oh my god! (Jenny and Kristin both laugh) That would be ideal.
Kristin: ​Wow. Thanks for sticking with us
Jenny: ​You did it!
Kristin: ​Yeah, I mean I don’t know this season but I wanna say that this is
gonna be one of the bigger episodes that-- well we just had so much to say.
We learned so much and you know how we feel about Angel so.
Jenny: ​Seriously. What an episode
Kristin: ​What an episode. Alright.
Jenny: ​Alright. I think that about does it for us. I’m Jenny Owen Youngs and
when i’m not watching Buffy with my wife I’m usually writing songs and
recording them. You can learn more about me and hear some the songs that
I’ve written that are not about Buffy over at
jennyowenyoungs.com/buffering
Kristin: ​Aren’t they all about Buffy in some way?
Jenny: ​Way deep down? You can also give me a shout on twitter at
@jennyowenyoungs
Kristin: ​I’m Kristin and you can find on twitter, I am always getting deeper
and deeper into the land of Buffy these days so I usually say my personal
chatter and feminist rants, but really I think I’ve just been posting gifs of
Cordelia over and over again, and you can find me there at @kristinnoeline.
When I’m not podcasting I work to bring advice, resources and laughter to
LGBTQ young people and their families over at everyoneisgay.com and
mykidisgay.com


Jenny: ​Buffering The Vampire Slayer is on twitter at @bufferingcast and
we’re also on facebook at facebook.com/bufferingcast you can also email us
at ​bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com
Kristin: ​And if you like what we’re doing here, there are a couple of
awesome ways that you can support us. One is by going over to iTunes and
leaving us a review, letting other people know that you like it so that they
can like it, and then we’ll all like it and it’ll be a great blast (Jenny laughs)
and/or two you can go over to bufferingthevampireslayer.com and you can
click on the donate button and several of you did that last week! We were so
excited to see some donations start to come through.
Jenny: ​Thank you so much!
Kristin: ​Ya! Thank you to those of you who donated. It’s really awesome, it
helps us-- actually just this week Jenny had to purchase a new microphone
Jenny: ​I did
Kristin: ​So ya. So we off set some of that cost by your generosity
Jenny: ​(sings) Thank you
Kristin: ​Thank you very much
Jenny: ​And thanks for listening awooo--Kristin: ​Nooo you have to say “Till next time”
Jenny: ​You’re right
Kristin: ​Say it!
Jenny: ​Till next time
Jenny and Kristin: ​Awoooooooooooooooooooo
Jenny: ​That was an extra long one


Kristin: ​Yeah
[Jenny performing “Angel” off the album “Songs from Season One” by
Buffering The Vampire Slayer]
I know what I should do, forget about you and walk away
But I know that what I should do and what I want to are not
the same (ahh 4x)
I keep breathing in. You make the rest of the world go dim
History says you’re a monster, but it don’t know you like I
know ya. You’re fighting it, you’re fighting it so hard.
I don’t mean to want you only. Gravity is pulling on me.
I’m fighting it, I’m fighting it so hard, but it’s so hard
You’re scared of what you might do, but you might find you
can’t change your face. But I see what you’re made of and
what you gave up to keep me safe (ahh 4x)
I keep breathing in. You make the rest of the world go dim
Your old friends say you’re a monster, but they don’t know
you like I know ya.
You’re fighting it, you’re fighting it so hard
I don’t mean to want you only. Gravity is pulling on me.
I’m fighting it, I’m fighting it so hard. But it’s so hard (ahh 2x)
It’s so hard (ahh 4x)

