Buffering the Vampire Slayer
Episode 6.20: Villains
[CHIME]
Jenny: Wha—hey, everybody!
Kristin: Hello! Look at us! [laughs]
Jenny: Well! Look at us. On the other side of what we thought would be the last
hurdle of the season, but no! [laughs]
Kristin: No!
Jenny: No, no, no.
Kristin: [sim] Instead of Seeing Red, we are now seeing evil. [laughs]
Jenny: We’ve officially entered Dark Willow zone! [announcer voice] D-d-d-dark
Willow zone!
Kristin: [laughs] Fuck yeah.
Jenny: And to commemorate this momentous occasion, we’ve gone ahead and run
up a fresh printing of an old fave, the Diana Kresge design, Bored Meow tee.
[Kristin laughs] That’s right.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: We’ve got it up in blue tie-dye in the US store, and deep maroon heather in
the UK store. And it’s only gonna be up through the [spooky voice] end of October!
Kristin: You know you want a kitten on your shirt, saying “bored meow.”
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: Come on!
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: What kind of person wouldn’t want such a thing? So, yeah.


Jenny: Frank. Mostly Frank. Frank would not like that.
Kristin: [sim] Mostly Frank, yes. Frank is—
Jenny: [laughs] Frank objects.
Kristin: Frank is very upset. [laughs]
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Yeah, you know how to find the store, right?
Bufferingthevampireslayer.com, just click on Shop, head on over there. Also, I
didn’t even put this in the notes, but you’re gonna hear Bess Rogers at the end of
today’s episode.
Jenny: Oh! Yeah, speaking of Dark Willow. She’s back.
Kristin: She’s gonna sing your face off, so I hope you’re fucking ready—
Jenny: Buckle up.
Kristin: For it. Thank you, as always, to our amazing, perfectly-selected voice of
Willow Rosenberg, Bess Rogers. And hey, I have a—we have a bonus episode in the
Patreon feed, again. We just can’t stop. We cannot be stopped. So—
Jenny: [laughs] Too bonus, too furious. Too fast, too boney-est. Well.
Kristin: [laughs] So Peggy Li, the jewelry—one of the jewelry designers from Buffy
the Vampire Slayer, a show you may have heard of—so many of her pieces have
been featured and shown on episodes spanning the seasons of this show. And I sat
down and I had a conversation with her about how this even happened. And it’s
really, like, an incredible story, for people who are out there, you know, hustling
and trying to get their things in places that will—this is what happened to Peggy.
She just sent—I’ma let you listen to the interview. [Jenny laughs] But she’s
incredible, and as a part of this bonus episode, I asked her if there was any place
that she would like to have people donate to, support. And she said that she was
going to donate three pairs of earrings to three people that will be selected—you
kinda know the drill here—for donating to the American Civil Liberties Union, ACLU.
I’m sure that you’ve heard of it, they are a massive organization, they do incredible
work. So listen. The earrings that Peggy is going to be sending to three of you who
donate any amount to the ACLU are the mother of pearl mini moon earrings, which
is the design that Tara wore last episode. They’re really, really cool.


Jenny: Oh my god. I think I just heard the combined shrieks of thousands [Kristin
laughs] upon thousands of lesbians. [laughs]
Kristin: Yeah, it’s pretty great. I mean—
Jenny: And witches alike.
Kristin: I—I literally picked them. I was like, “Peggy, these are the ones! These are
the ones! Do you have these?” Because these are the ones. So, you know, she’s
still making that design and many others. So you should go check out her site, she
has a whole page dedicated to the jewelry that you’ve seen on Buffy that she still
makes today. So bufferingthevampireslayer.com/aclu, that’s how you tell us if
you’ve donated. We’ll give you—let’s call it two weeks to get your donations in to
ACLU. And then Peggy will pick three of you and send out those mini moon
earrings. Also, this giveaway is open only to US residents. That is because of
shipping. Which just continues to get harder and harder to do outside of the US. So
sorry if you’re international, but you can still, I believe, purchase a pair, if you’re
into it. And you can still donate to the ACLU. [laughs]
Jenny: Now, hey. Listen! Yeah, there’s a thing that I have to tell you, which is that
we had planned to do a live show in Philly this October to mark our Season 7
premiere. But we have made the incredibly difficult decision to hold off on doing a
large live event for the safety of all of you, and also the surrounding communities.
So you didn’t explicitly know what it was [Kristin laughs] but we’re so sorry to be
soft-cancelling it, [laughs] that which was never announced. But will we make it up
to you? Yes!
Kristin: [sim] Yes! We are so sorry that we can’t hold you all in our arms, but
yeah, like Jenny said, we’re trying to be as responsible as we can.
Jenny: And in the meantime, we’re gonna try to find some more ways to be
digitally close—
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: To you all.
Kristin: Yes. Exactly. Precisely. So stay tuned.
Jenny: Hmm.


Kristin: Little head’s up here. You know that we have a calendar that we run
specifically for antiracism-based events, and just events that promote and celebrate
voices of color. So just in a couple of days, an event that’s been up there for a
while is Jubilee, a Black Feminist Homecoming. That’s on the 28th of August. And
it’s free, it’s a virtual gathering. It’s gonna have so many performers, liberators, et
cetera. You can check it out, you can find it on our calendar on our website and a
link to it. And also just a head’s up that another featured event also in the show
notes today is one on September 23rd, so bookmark your calendars. It’s called
Reimagining Safety and it’s a conversation about reimagining communal safety and
reclaiming healthy and safe communities without police. So check those things out.
Show notes have more links, bufferingthevampireslayer.com/JustKeepFighting has
more. And Jenny, important news from your end of things—
Jenny: Mmm!
Kristin: If I do say so myself. [laughs]
Jenny: I have an announcement, which is of course, the Sexual Tension Awards
winner from the last episode. And you all know, if you’ve been listening, who it is
because there was only one nomination. I’ve taken the liberty of composing a small
song to honor Fish Girl forever. [Kristin laughs] [clears throat] [singing] Fish Girl
forever! Fish Girl forever! Givin’ up? Never! [Kristin laughs] It’s Fish Girl forever!
It’s a long hard swim upstream! Trying to dream a little dream! Of mating.
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: What do you think?
Kristin: Jenny literally was, like, scribbling down in a notebook while I was talking
and I was like, what is she doing? That’s what she was doing.
Jenny: That’s right.
Kristin: So, fantastic. Fantastic.
Jenny: [singsong] That’s what I was doing! [normal] Congrats to Fish Girl!
Kristin: Congrats to Fish Girl. Really has my respect forever. For-evuh. So—
Jenny: Mmhmm!


Kristin: Last but certainly not least, Jenny, I have an email to read. I usually read
one in the intro and this one is very special. It came sort of as a result of the
Unbury Your Gays episode that we did in conjunction with Seeing Red. And it’s not
even an email to us. I mean, it was sent to us, but it was actually a post on the
Facebook group page. And I’m gonna keep it anonymous, but I just think it’s really
special. So.
“I first came out to just a few of my closest friends in the fall of 2019, and I don't
think I would've even been able to get to the level of self-acceptance needed to do
that if it wasn't for the Buffering Facebook group. It was the first place I felt I could
be openly out on the internet and feel safe and free of judgment and just be met
with support. Since I was a wee babe when Buffy was originally on, I had no idea
that spaces and communities like The Kitten Board even existed. Don't get me
wrong, I was aware of how big of a deal Tara and Willow were for the gay
community, but I didn't really live it the way queer people at the time did. Hearing
Emma and Jen talk 20 years later about the impact of spaces like The Kitten Board,
all it could make me think was that this group and the community I've found in
Buffering, y'all are my Kitten Board.”
Just remember that this person is talking to the whole Facebook group, right? This
is not just to me and Jenny. [Jenny squeals]
“This is the online space where I've found the acceptance and kindness to embrace
myself and my sexuality. And it was so special to me to listen to queer people 20
years older than me talk about similar places they found that when they were closer
to my age. Ultimately, I'm just so thankful. Thankful for the space, for the show,
and especially thankful for the queer people that came before me that fought so I,
and we, can have these spaces and this community. You've all saved my world, a
lot.”
You got something? And I keep telling you, the goggles. [Jenny clears throat] Why
don’t you have the goggles, Jenny?
Jenny: [while clearing throat] Um…
Kristin: Anyway.
Jenny: I was simply chopping an onion while you read… [Kristin laughs] that.
Kristin: First, you’re writing a song while I’m talking. Now you’re chopping an
onion while I’m talking.


Jenny: Love to multitask.
Kristin: Yeah. It’s just really special and I know—you know, Seeing Red is a hard
episode for many reasons. So just spotlighting all of these beautiful things that
have come out of this episode—I mean, really, you know. The con—gotta give the
good a space here too. So just thank you for sharing that with us and you know,
just thank you to all of you for sharing yourselves with each other. It’s great. Just
forget it. We gotta go.
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: We’re gonna go talk about Dark Willow—
Jenny: [tearfully] Okay!
Kristin: Who can make us forget about all of our emotions. [laughs]
Jenny: Hooray!
[Buffering theme plays]
Jenny: Hello! And welcome to Buffering the Vampire Slayer! A podcast where we
are watching and discussing every episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, one by one,
spoiler free! In tandem with those no-good, [Kristin laughs] dirty, rotten, low-down
Angel On Toppers. Unbelievable, how dare they. I’m Jenny Owen Youngs.
Kristin: Wow. I am delighted by the resurgence of the feud, Kristin Russo. And
hey! This week, we are—we’ve done it. We’ve gotten past Season 6, Episode 19.
We are now—
Jenny: Hooray!
Kristin: Hooray for us. We are now at Season 6, Episode 20. It’s called Villains.
Who is a villain? Who isn’t? We’ll discuss. Stay tuned at the end of this podcast
every other week for an original song, written by Jenny, recapping the Buffy
episode that we are discussing. Sure do hope that we have some viewpoints from
one Dark Willow at the end of this week’s episode. Jenny, I sure do hope…
Jenny: Seems…likely. Now! Villains was written by Marti Noxon and directed by
David Solomon, and originally aired on May 14th, 2002.


Kristin: Hey, this is the one where Warren loses all of his skin. Uh, not the
description. This is the one where Buffy tries to recover from an assassination
attempt. Jonathan and Andrew share a jail cell. And Warren seeks allies at a demon
bar, while Anya is confronted by a distraught Willow. This is the one…where Dark
Willow is born. Welcome, welcome. Welcome to the show, Dark Willow. [laughs]
Jenny: So great to have Dark Willow here with us.
Kristin: You know, it is. It is. I have a lot to say. That’s why we have a podcast
together.
Jenny: Indeed.
Kristin: Because we both have a lot to say, but just—I just wanna come out hot
and say, I fucking love Dark Willow. Okay? I love Dark Willow. So, there you have
it.
Jenny: Uh, it’s fun to have fun.
Kristin: It’s fun to have fun. It’s also fun, like, when you think about Marti Noxon
writing this episode. You know? Like, you get the double layer of Dark Willow and
all the things she says and the way she says them to Warren. And you know that
behind that character, with a pen, is Marti Noxon.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: You know, it’s just nice, is all I’m saying. It’s like—
Jenny: Yes!
Kristin: A little bit of smashing this thing. It begins with a P, it rhymes with, like,
snakes and malarkey.
[THE PATRIARCHY jingle plays]
The patriarchy! [thunder clap, evil laughter]
Jenny: That is a stretch.
Kristin: Snakes and malarkey with patriarchy, are you kidding me? I don’t get
credit for that?
Jenny: I mean…


Kristin: On the fly? You can suck it, Jenny.
Jenny: Yeah, okay. Well, well, well. Previously on Buffy the Vampire
Slayer—[makes grossed-out noises]
Kristin: No thank you! Previously on Buffy the Vampire Slayer—
Jenny: [sim] Let’s just…
Kristin: No thank you. We had to live through all this shit once already. Just—we
get it, okay? Everything’s fucking rough.
Jenny: They’re like, hey, remember all that really, really, really bad stuff that you
were so happy was over and in your rear view mirror? Let me just remind you of
that.
Kristin: [sim] Let me just remind—yeah. Let me just remind you.
Jenny: [sim] At every turn.
Kristin: No thank you.
Jenny: [sings tune]
Kristin: Hey, you know who’s so proud, is whoever got the ambulance—the real
ambulance—to drive on this set. Because they spent, like, twelve minutes just on it
pulling up to the front of the house.
Jenny: [makes siren noise] [Kristin laughs] I don’t…ambulances don’t make that
one, do they? They just go [makes different siren noise]—like, [laughs] like a scary
ghost.
Kristin: Whenever you go, like, higher than a certain pitch, Zoom just cuts you off
for me.
Jenny: Alright.
Kristin: So, like, I got, like, half of that siren and then not the rest. But, um…
Jenny: Let your brain fill in the rest.


Kristin: It did. And this is a beautiful—this is a great shot, okay? So, I—new to my
brain over the last, like, year or two is just, like, really recognizing when a camera
does not stop filming. It’s something that I just wasn’t really aware of before I was
talking about a television show for this long. And this is one of those times. I mean,
this shot starts on the ambulance. It follows around to the back of the ambulance,
we see them get everything out of it. Then we follow the EMTs through the gate as,
like, Xander, I think, is like—it’s like a whole thing, and it lasts for quite some time.
So shoutout to the camera dudes.
Jenny: They’re doing great. They’re doing great. Shoutout to some other dudes.
Kristin now has a crush—
Kristin: What the hell!
Jenny: On an EMT.
Kristin: Wow. I can’t even—I can’t even say anything off-air without you just
jumping my particular gun.
Jenny: That’s right. Yep, yep.
Kristin: Yes, I do. I have a fucking crush on Mustache EMT in his little onesie. I like
him, okay? So if you wanna tell him that I—
Jenny: Do you—
Kristin: Have a crush on him.
Jenny: Are you—? Do EMTs wear coveralls?
Kristin: This one does.
Jenny: I know, and the guy who picks up Tara up later also does. But I’m like…
Kristin: Well, we have EMTs who listen to this podcast, so let us—
Jenny: We do. I’m—just a cursory googling. There are some coveralls, but it’s
mostly, like, matching pants and shirts. That I’m seeing.
Kristin: Right. That’s what I would expect. Whether or not it’s a common
occurrence for an EMT to be in coveralls, I, Kristin Russo, am into it. Between the
mustache and the—


Jenny: [sim] Yeah, Mustache is wearing that set of coveralls.
Kristin: He’s just cute. I—he’s just cute, okay? I’m gonna—
Jenny: He’s cute.
Kristin: We’re gonna both take what we can, when it comes to enjoyment in these
episodes.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Speaking of which, why don’t we fucking cut to upstairs, where Willow is
crying over [Jenny exhales] the dead body of Tara. She calls back Osiris. And Osiris
is essentially like, “Bitch. Come on, now.”
Jenny: Uh, we remember Osiris, our pal Osiris, who came into play at the
beginning of the season.
Kristin: Osiris is like, “You did not even kill a [New York accent] cute little
doe-eyed deer, [normal] so I don’t know what you’re expecting from me, witch.”
Jenny: Yeah, I like that Willow’s at a place now where she just can cut out the
middleman. She doesn’t need to kill a deer, she doesn’t need to do a ritual.
Kristin: She doesn’t.
Jenny: All that she needs to do is scream! [Kristin laughs] And Osiris shows up and
tells her that she is SOL.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Because this human life was taken by human means, part of the natural
order of things. So there’s nothing Osiris can or will do. Willow screams a big—a
“no” that is so powerful that it has—that it creates big sound rings—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: That, uh…waft, blow, fly into Osiris’s face. And he’s all like, “Raaahhhh!”
and then he leaves.


Kristin: Yeah. She—second god that Willow has harmed. The first, of course, being
Glory. Not bad, you know? Powerful. She’s powerful. Before she weaponizes her
scream of grief at Osiris, she also says to him—when he says, “These are the laws
of natural passing.” “How? How is this natural?” And I just wanna note it, because
there’s a lot of conversation in this episode around gun violence. And like, the
unnaturalness of it. You know, like, they’re just in these tiny moments. But later,
we’ll hear from Warren, who’s like, “Tried all this magic. You know what was best?
A gun.” And like, they really—they put a focus on this particular gun that I kind of
wish was on previous guns in this universe, ‘cause it is so distinctly outside of it.
And I just think it’s a really poignant moment when Willow looks at the god of Osiris
and is like, “How are you telling me that this fucking gun shooting my girlfriend is a
natural death?” There’s a lot in there, in my personal opinion.
Jenny: I don’t wanna…accidentally imply an allegiance to our nemesis-ses. But I’m
like, why put all this focus on an inanimate gun, when we could be putting all of our
focus [Kristin laughs]…onto Charles Gunn? Where it belongs!
Kristin: Yes. Add that second N and then we’re all signed up.
Jenny: Mm!
Kristin: We are literally all signed up for Charles Gunn.
Jenny: What a difference one little consonant makes.
Kristin: [laughs] A big difference. Not to mention if you put that particular Gunn in
a tux.
Jenny: Mmhmm!
Kristin: So. Willow just leaves the building, just walk—just straight, walks out,
covered in blood. Leaves Tara upstairs. Xander—[laughs] this is not funny. Like,
none of this is funny. But I find certain things funny, okay? And the way that, like,
Xander and Buffy interact with Willow through this entire episode. Like, they’re just
like, “What’s—”
Jenny: It’s—
Kristin: “Happening?!”
Jenny: Good.


Kristin: [laughing] “What is—”
Jenny: It’s good.
Kristin: “How did—” and this is, like, kind of where it begins. I mean, Willow hasn’t
become Dark Willow quite yet. But she walks out covered in blood and Xander’s
like, “Uhh, bud? Uh, what?” And she’s like, oh, cool, Warren—she gets the
information she needs. That’s why this scene is here. Warren did this.
Jenny: Yeah, she’s, uh…chilly. She is…mission-oriented. She is—I love that they
just happen to intersect at the front of the house. [laughs]
Kristin: Willow’s walk beginning here and getting more and more—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Pronounced through the rest of the episode calls to my particular mind the
show Gentleman Jack. Willow, like, seriously channeling some Anne Lister strides
here. Like, calling on lesbians of yesteryear to just inform this powerful walk, and
I’m here for it. So off she goes.
Jenny: [laughs] Yeah. She’s off and we’re off to the local Sunnydale holding cell.
Kristin: You know, I don’t mean to give Andrew any credit, ‘cause really, these
boys in general deserve very little. But I will say that Andrew putting fucking tiny
sheltered white boy Jonathan a little bit in his place is something I enjoy. [laughs]
He’s like, “This is basically Mayberry. That dude that you’re, like, afraid of right now
is in here for a fucking parking ticket. Get actually over yourself.” [laughs] So I do
appreciate that.
Jenny: It’s interesting that Andrew is presenting that way. Because I feel like
everything that we’ve seen up to this point of Andrew would make it—would make
me think that he would be acting the exact same way as Jonathan.
Kristin: Totally. Totally. I’m not even sure that it’s in character for him. Though he
does—I mean, he has been becoming a little bit more comfortable, perhaps, with
his sexuality. So like, maybe he just felt a little more emboldened to be like, “Don’t
flatter yourself, Jonathan” when Jonathan assumes that this guy who’s in there for
a parking ticket is gonna want to make him, quote, “his butt monkey.” Okay,
everyone.
Jenny: [uncertainly] Mmm…


Kristin: A quote I enjoy in this scene that I must point out is the banter around
Matthew Broderick. [laughs] This is really kind of, like, a moment for Matthew
Broderick, right? We’re, like, early aughts and they have this exchange where
Andrew’s like, “I really miss Ferris Matthew. Like, Broadway Matthew, I feel he’s,
like, really cold right now.” [laughs] It’s good.
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: It’s cute, it’s fun.
Jenny: Yes. But back to the bones of it. Jonathan redirects and is like, “Hey, uh,
you guys were going to, um, abandon me. [Kristin laughs] And leave me to take
the fall. You had jetpacks and I did not.” And Andrew makes a very Andrew attempt
to save it, by saying he was going to carry Jonathan. And that is funny.
Kristin: Andrew’s like, when you saw only one jetpack streak in the sky— [laughs]
That was—
Jenny: Yes! It was then that I carried you!
Kristin: [laughing] I carried you.
Jenny: Correct! Thank you. Okay.
Kristin: [sim] So we go to the demon bar. Not Willy’s, another demon bar.
Jenny: Some other demon bar. This is…one of my favorite—
Kristin: [laughing] It’s good.
Jenny: Like, incidental worldbuild-y things. This vampire—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Is watching an alligator—or perhaps a crocodile—eat the shit out of
something. And when Warren tries to talk to him, he says, “I’m watching my
program.” Which I love.
Kristin: I do too. I took a specific note, being like, this is so great. This is,
like—’cause we talk so often, like, about how the vampires, once they’re vampires,


just know how to fight. Just like, instinctually [sic] know how to fight and don’t they
need any training? They can just suddenly do backflips, et cetera.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And this is kind of like—not a full answer. But I do love the idea of
vampires studying nature programs to watch predators in nature, to help inform
them as predators. It’s great.
Jenny: It’s good. It’s good! Warren wants to buy a round for the house. He’s really
feeling himself.
Kristin: He really is.
Jenny: And Warren starts talking to the demons in this bar about how he killed the
Slayer. And this begins…unfortunately, it only happens twice and I feel like it should
happen three times for the rule of comedy. [Kristin laughs] But we get the first
instance of Warren saying, “I’ve been heading an organization. The Trio. You’ve
heard of us.” Nobody’s heard of the Trio, my dude. You’re a bunch of little boys.
Kristin: Literally, no one gives a fuck about you in any way, shape or form. Except
for the fact that, LOL, you didn’t kill the Slayer, you stupid dingdong. Which is
basically what the vampire next to him says. He’s like—[laughs] he’s like, “I was
gonna eat you myself, but now that I know the Slayer’s gonna come and get you,
that’s like, way more fun.”
Jenny: Also, he was gonna eat him during the commercial! [Kristin laughs] Kids,
commercials are a thing that you used to have to watch, no matter what. You
couldn’t subscribe to something—
Kristin: Uh-huh.
Jenny: In order to avoid commercials. They would just happen at regular intervals
throughout your show, and you would have to time out when you would pee,
[Kristin laughs] when you would go get a snack. You would have to hold it until the
commercial and then you would have to [snaps] go, go, go, go, go.
Kristin: I would like to give a special shoutout to Adam Busch for the fucking laugh
in this scene—he does—it has to be one of my favorite maniacal, evil laughs. He
just really, really does a good job. So credit where credit is due. Adam. I tip my hat
to you, sir. Oh, shit! Pop-pop-pop went the fucking lightbulb.


Jenny: Oh my god! I have so many things to say, [Kristin laughs] about this. First
of all, Willow swoops in. She fucking darkens the doorway of the Magic Box. Shit’s
exploding. And then she says to Anya, “Where do you keep the black arts books?”
Here’s the thing about that. [Kristin laughs] Willow knows where the black arts
books are. She simply does. Even though yes, she’s in, like, recovery. Like, we
all—everybody watching this show knows that the black arts books are on the
upper…level.
Kristin: They’re upstairs. [laughs] They’re upstairs.
Jenny: They’re on the mezzanine.
Kristin: We all know. [laughs]
Jenny: Willow needs power! And so, what she does is she invites all of the black
arts books to fly down into a heap on the table. And then she digs her little fingers
into them and slurps up all the dark magic, out of the pages and directly into her
body, eyes, hair and vocal chords.
Kristin: It is—
Jenny: And then says, [deep voice] “That’s better.” [laughs]
Kristin: It’s good. I don’t know—I don’t know if I’m completely on board with the
[deep voice] “that’s better.” [Jenny snorts] But everything else is hot! This is
great—in my opinion—
Jenny: Ohh.
Kristin: Fantastic effect. Fantastic effects! The fucking words running up her arms.
The—we can finally share your Halloween costumes as Dark Willow on our social
media platforms. [both laugh] The moment is here, it has arrived. Dark Willow is
here. I’m fucking so, so, so into it. And Jenny, we have—we’ve sort of had this
jingle. But really, this is the moment we’ve been waiting for, [Jenny gasps] to
release it in jingle form.
Jenny: As one of my nemesis-sis-sis says to me, I say now to myself: hit it, bitch.
[Kristin laughs]
[Verse from “Tough Love” plays]
You messed with the wrong witch
Now you’re going down, bitch


You messed with the wrong witch
Now you’re going down, bitch
I owe you, I owe you, I owe you pain!
Kristin: Wow. The voice of one Bess Rogers, singing Willow. And of course—of
course! Come on, of course we have Bess returning to sing Willow in Villains. We
would be simply foolish if we did not.
Jenny: Oh, yeah. Um. Kristin.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Have you had an opportunity to check out Limp Bizkit’s set at Lollapalooza?
Kristin: [laughs] You know, Jenny, I haven’t.
Jenny: Well!
Kristin: I really have not.
Jenny: Let me, I guess, be the first to inform you that it absolutely rips. And the
reason I’m thinking of it now is because, do you remember what the guitarist of
Limp Bizkit looks like?
Kristin: Not really.
Jenny: Okay. You know what Fred Durst looks like, right?
Kristin: I do.
Jenny: He’s got a white T-shirt on and he’s got a backwards red ball cap and some
jeans.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: And he’s all like, “it’s just one of those days!” And then, somehow,
inexplicably, the guitarist in Limp Bizkit looks like—kind of, a lot of the time, he
looks like Seth Green when he is halfway in between wolf [Kristin laughs] and
person?
Kristin: Wow.


Jenny: He has kind of, like, that spiked-up hair, and—
Kristin: So there is hair. Okay, so—
Jenny: Sometimes there’s fangs and there are full-eye black contacts. Sometimes
he will just paint, like, his entire body one color. Sometimes he’s wearing, like,
heels. Sometimes he’s wearing a long wig. Sometimes he uses this material—I
don’t know what it is, but it must go on wet and goopy and then dry that way. He
looks kind of, like, covered in lava that only goes, like, halfway down his body.
Anyway. I guess I’m just thinking of Limp Bizkit, aside from the fact that they
rocked me so hard, because—
Kristin: Wow!
Jenny: Wes Borland has such a specific thing going on. And I’m just thinking about
Wes Borland’s little eyeballs and Alyson Hannigan’s little eyeballs. And everyone
just, you know, suffering for their art. Because those are really uncomfortable, from
what I understand.
Kristin: I am—I am now just looking at many photos of—
Jenny: You’re getting a look at Wes Borland, right?
Kristin: Wes Borland and they are—they are being good to me, I have to say.
Yeah, this is—
Jenny: Yeah, no, it’s good—it’s good shit. And my favorite thing about Wes Borland
is looking at him just right next to Fred Durst.
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah. [laughing] Yeah.
Jenny: It’s like…these are the two—these are the two things you think of [laughs]
when you think of Limp Bizkit. And how are they in the same band together?
Kristin: Wow.
Jenny: I love it so much.
Kristin: Wow. You were really, really spot on when you said Seth Green halfway
between—I mean, this one photo right here literally looks like it could be Seth
Green halfway between vampire—or, vampire?


Jenny: [sim] I fucking know, right?
Kristin: Yeah, werewolf and human. Like, kind of bizarrely close. And you know,
there’s other costumes and things that he has that are different. But this one that
you were referencing, [laugh] I mean, it—I would—if you showed me the picture
quickly, I would think it was Seth Green.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah.
Kristin: Wow. Well. Didn’t expect to be doing a Limp Bizkit deep dive, but here we
are. And a worthy one, indeed.
Jenny: Mmhmm!
Kristin: Well, let’s stop having fun, because—
Jenny: Yay! Love stopping having fun. [both laugh]
Kristin: We’re gonna go to the Summers house, where Dawn—
Jenny: No! Simply no.
Kristin: And this is, like—
Jenny: This is the worst thing that ever happens.
Kristin: I mean, truly. I read something—I’m, like, paraphrasing it and also, like,
jumbling it about ‘cause that’s my way. But it was basically like, I think that
probably Tara’s death was way worse for Dawn than it was for Willow. You know,
like, it should have been Dark Dawn [both laugh] instead of Dark Willow. Because
are you kidding me with what this kid is fucking going through? Like, I just can’t—I
have no room in my heart for any of you anymore that don’t like Dawn. I just
can’t—I don’t—I can’t make space for you, I’m sorry. I can’t agree to disagree on
this one.
Jenny: She’s going through it!
Kristin: She is. She has just been through so much shit. I mean, Buffy literally puts
words to it later in the episode, right? She’s like, “You’ve been through enough for,
like, ever?” Like, she’s like, there’s not even a measure of time that could describe
all of the shit that you’ve been through. So Dawn…comes up the stairs. She has no
idea what’s going on. And this is—not to go on too much of a tangent about this.


But I was just thinking about how different television and movies are now that
cellphones are so pervasive, you know? Like, everybody has a way to get—like, this
entire episode just would not go this way today. Because Dawn would have known
and—like, everybody would have been on each other—texting, calling, where’s—you
know. Like, things would have—messages would have been happening in ways that
they do not, because Dawn doesn’t have a cell phone.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Most of us didn’t have cell phones at this point in time. Or if we did, we
had just gotten one. [singsong] Anyway! Let’s go to Rack’s! Let’s go to Rack’s!
Jenny: Okay, what a joy. We gotta take the joys where we can get them—
Kristin: Ugh.
Jenny: In this episode.
Kristin: Ugh.
Jenny: And Jeff Kober certainly is absolutely one.
Kristin: Tell me—tell me if Jeff Kober has had a better episode than this one. I
could just, like, roll around in how deliciously disgusting he has Rack in this
episode. It’s like, just—I don’t know.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Like, it comes off the screen in a way that not a ton of actors have the
capacity to do. It is good. Little tiny child man Warren is there in the waiting room.
Jenny: Hm!
Kristin: And…[laughs] Kober—sorry, Rack—we’ll call him by his actual character
name. Rack is like, “You’re new.” [both laugh] It’s just, like, dripping—like, every
word is dripping. And so Warren goes into the fucking room with Rack. They’re
chatting and fucking Warren’s like, “The Slayer’s after me and you need to protect
me. And I have a lot of money and I’ll pay you for this shit.” And without
even—’cause we get the actual exchange between them, where you know, Rack is
like, “Dude. You’re worrying about the wrong thing and also, you’re pathetic.” But
like, he doesn’t even need to say the lines. Like, it’s just so viscerally clear—


Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: That Warren is a fucking tiny, annoying ant on the bottom of Rack’s shoe.
And the rest of the mystical, magical universe’s shoe. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: But let’s just hear my favorite moment between—
Jenny: The best line delivery of the episode.
Kristin: I think so, yes.
[Clip from episode plays]
Rack: Killing a Slayer, that’s big business for a kid.
Warren: I’m not a kid.
Rack: [unconvinced] Okay.
Kristin: Ahh. “Okay.” Okay!
Jenny: Whew!
Kristin: Sure, man! Whatever you fucking say.
Jenny: What a guy.
Kristin: What a guy. [laughing] Were you—Rack thinks perhaps, was the Trio a
band? Were you a band or something?
Jenny: Yeah. Great question.
Kristin: Were you? What were you?
Jenny: Very reasonable.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: But yeah, Rack eventually tells Warren, you know, if I were you, I’d be
worrying about the witch. Willow!


Kristin: [sim] Witch! Which witch?
Jenny: [sim] The new power. She’s gonna blow this town apart, starting with you.
[shudders]
Kristin: [exhales] He also says to Warren, “Someone is dead.” He actually says,
“Someone is stone cold.” ‘Cause you know, Warren’s like, “But I didn’t even—like, I
just—I just attempted to kill her best friend. Why would she be so mad?” [Jenny
laughs] And you know, Rack is like, “yeah, no, there’s somebody who’s dead. And
this girl is running on pure fury. I’ve never felt anything like it.”
Jenny: Mmhmm! He also tells—he also tells Warren that Willow can sense Warren’s
essence. Right now. [both laugh]
Kristin: He also asks Warren—when Warren hands him just this mountain wad of
cash, “Do you want the ability to hide or do you want the ability to fight?”
[laughing] And Warren’s like, “Why not both?” [both laugh] Literally—
Jenny: Why choose?
Kristin: [sim] I need all of it, I don’t know! I’m panicking. I’m really trying to
pretend like I’m strong and powerful, but I am not. Oh, but you know who is?
Jenny: Willow?
Kristin: Willow.
Jenny: Willow rolls up to the OR, all like, levitatus-bulletus. [Kristin laughs] And
also, Kristin, listen to me very closely.
Kristin: Okay.
Jenny: In between the Magic Box and the hospital—
Kristin: Okay?
Jenny: Willow changed out of her, like, little white lacy shirt and into an all-black
ensemble [pronounced on-som-bluh].
Kristin: Mmhmm.


Jenny: To go with her new eyes and hair.
Kristin: You know what somebody—first of all, she probably just did one of those
presto-changos like she did in Tabula Rasa, I think it is? Right? Where she’s at the
top of the stairs—
Jenny: Mmm.
Kristin: And she’s like, bloop! [laughs] And she’s wearing new clothes.
Jenny: Okay, yeah.
Kristin: But also, somebody pointed out to me that—and I can’t remember the
episode. I’m sorry that I didn’t write this down. But the episode where Tara and
Willow are broken up and they sort of have a happenstance meeting outside the
Magic Box. And they have, like, sort of a pleasant but awkward exchange, whatever
that episode was. It was in this season. Willow, I think, is wearing this jacket.
It’s—[Jenny gasps] it’s not, like, effect—and please tell me if I’m incorrect. It’s just,
I saw it and I looked at it and I was like, I think this person is right who’s telling me
this information. So I’m sharing it with you here, a little bit irresponsibly. [laughs]
But hey! Google away. [Jenny laughs] So—yeah. But she is—she has changed
wardrobe.
Jenny: She looked down at her little white lacy top and said, this shall—this simply
won’t do for vibes!
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: I require something darker!
Kristin: Yeah. And she tells all the medical employees at the hospital to leave.
Now. And they do, because who’s not gonna listen to Dark Willow?
Jenny: Yeah, yikes.
Kristin: We all will. We all will obey whatever the fuck Dark Willow tells us to do.
[laughs]
Jenny: Yes. So shall it be.
Kristin: So, like you said, Jenny. Levitatus-bulletus here. She pulls—


Jenny: Bloop!
Kristin: Bloops the bullet right out of Buffy’s chest cavity. And this is one of those,
like—at the top of the episode, I kind of mentioned that I feel like there’s just
commentary on not just, like—not just guns. But also, just like, the fragility of our
human selves. Like, I love this. I think this is really great work by Alyson Hannigan,
too. Where she sort of—she bloops the bullet, like we said. And then it’s floating,
like, right in her vision line. And she just, like—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Ever so slightly, cocks her head to the side and says, “It’s so small. You
know, like, it’s so—”
Jenny: Which is very sad.
Kristin: It really is. And she’s kind of, like, in that mourning, like, mourning with a
U. Mourning with a dipthong, if you will? This tiny piece of metal could undo…Tara.
Undo any living—like, right? Like, we are—we are so—and I think, like, not to get
too fucking woo-woo about it all. But like, I just think that that is why it feels so
intrusive in a horrible way for a gun to ever be a part of this show. Because it’s like,
magic is complex and breathing and, like, living in a way that our humans are. Like,
inexplicable, you know? Not that we don’t understand—like, your heart beats and it
pumps blood. But like, for all the science and for all the understanding, there’s still,
like, a mystical element about the way that we as human beings stay alive and
walking around. It’s just bananas. And so, the horror that this tiny piece of metal
can stop all of that, can undo all of that—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Is really atrocious and offensive and upsetting. And you know—and I think
that’s why, like, fuck a gun. Fuck a gun in general, really, but like, fuck a gun in
this universe, for sure.
Jenny: Yeah, I don’t like it.
Kristin: [sighs] This is—[laughs] this is where their response to Willow also makes
me laugh. ‘Cause, like, Buffy has just been, essentially, resurrected for the third
time in her life. And her first thought is, like, “Willow? [both laugh] What? You look
funny.” [laughs]


Jenny: Yeah, yeah. Xander, so responsive, so visibly—you know—relieved that
Buffy’s okay. He says, “This dying thing’s funny once, maybe twice.” [laughs]
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Which is good. Willow is a cold fish.
Kristin: Yeah. Speaking—[laughs]
Jenny: She is removed!
Kristin: Willow, like Matthew Broderick on Broadway, has become…[laughs]
Jenny: I find her cold.
Kristin: [laughing] More cold.
Jenny: Hospital Willow. And she says, [deep voice] “It’s time to find Warren.”
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Buffy sure seems okay, like, immediately.
Kristin: Yeah and I read in some of the, like, show notes and things online that
according to the monitors in the hospital, this is a third temporary death for Buffy.
There is—
Jenny: Oh!
Kristin: I know. Which I thought—I mean, I didn’t—again, please, doctors,
nurses—
Jenny: Oh my god.
Kristin: EMTs, please check the facts on that. But according to—
Jenny: This bitch loves to die!
Kristin: [laughs] Thank god that Faith is still around somewhere! You know?
Because if she wasn’t—
Jenny: Oh, dude—


Kristin: We’d have so many Slayers at this point.
Jenny: Or, if Faith wasn’t alive—
Kristin: Right. Oh, like, does Buffy only get one death to bring a—
Jenny: That’s—yeah, that’s what I’m wondering, if there’s only one replacement
Slayer available for each Slayer.
Kristin: Right, so Faith—so essentially, Faith has to die to bring our next Slayer,
because Buffy’s already used up her tokens.
Jenny: I mean, maybe. That’s my thinking.
Kristin: While we’re here, a brief question to posit to our listening audience. I
watched, last night, a movie that you should all see called The Lost Boys. Takes
place in the 80s and it just got me thinking. If Nikki Wood was the Slayer in the 70s
and Buffy is the Slayer of the 90s, I would like to know who the fuck—who was in
between these two? Who’s our 80s Slayer? Think on it.
Jenny: Well—
Kristin: Talk amongst yourselves.
Jenny: I mean, there’s probably more than one 80s Slayer, more than one 70s
Slayer.
Kristin: Well, fine. Maybe two?
Jenny: [sim] You know, Buffy’s the longest surviving Slayer—
Kristin: Sure, sure.
Jenny: In a long—of ever.
Kristin: I just would like some narratives. I would like some fanfic on the 1980s
Slayers. Thank you.
Jenny: Yeah, there might—you might be able to do better than fanfic. There might
be something—


Kristin: Canonically?
Jenny: In the comics or something. But I’m…
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: I’m not pulling anything up in my mind right now.
Kristin: [sim] Well, that’s why I’m asking. I’m gonna be showered, I’m sure, in
information—
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: About the Slayers of the 80s. [both laugh] So we get a brief clip of Warren
at the bus depot, just buying a ticket out of town. I just—I’m hard pressed to
believe that Warren, who we will later see has the ability to goo up Willow and send
a fucking—what do you call those things that Harry Potter uses to fly? The flying—
Jenny: Dude, a Snitch?
Kristin: A Snitch. He’s got, like, a fucking mechanical evil Snitch. He’s got all these
fucking—
Jenny: It’s very weird.
Kristin: He’s built himself a robot? Like—
Jenny: Here’s—I’m—this is what I wanted to ask. Like…why do you think
Warren…what devious purpose do you think Warren has for already having a
Warrenbot ready to go? [Kristin laughs] I’m envisioning some dark shit.
Kristin: Yeah, that’s true.
Jenny: You know what I mean?
Kristin: That’s true. Is it—so is it Robot Warren who goes to buy the ticket in the
first place? Or is it Warren-Warren and then he puts the robot on the thing? I guess
it’s just Robot Warren the whole time?
Jenny: It could be Warren Robot the whole time, but we don’t see Warren Robot
later behave in, like, the very, like, manic—


Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Terrified way that ticket-buying Warren is behaving.
Kristin: [laughs] Right. Right, exactly. So, I don’t know. I have some questions
about—you know what it really comes down to, I think, is that Rack was like, “Do
you wanna hide or fight?” And Warren was like, “All of it!” And that is the problem
with the patriarchy and a lot of men is that, like, just go away, man. You just
shoulda—if you had just—
Jenny: He should’ve—yeah, he should’ve flown somewhere—
Kristin: Right?
Jenny: A.
Kristin: Used all the power that he got from Rack, all the things. Instead of making
a flying thing and a fucking goo thing and a robot and a fucking—just go away,
man. Just go away and you might have fucking survived. But you had to fucking
make a whole production out of it. Well, this is what you get. Motherfucker.
Jenny: Mm!
Kristin: [laughs] Okay.
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: Has Xander always had this purple car? Is this a new car?
Jenny: This is the only time we have and I think will ever see this car.
Kristin: I love it.
Jenny: I think?
Kristin: I love it. I love it. I would like a car that is this purple. It is intense.
Jenny: They’re driving. They’re driving collaboratively, [both laugh] because
Xander is in the driver’s seat. And Willow is doing things like pressing down the
accelerator from—magically. [laughs] From the back seat.


Kristin: I actually like Xander’s response to this. ‘Cause he’s like, “You coulda just
drove! Nobody—” [laughs]
Jenny: [laughing] Yeah.
Kristin: “Nobody told you you could not have driven. So.” [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah. Buffy and Xander are trying, for a lot of this episode, to do,
like, an on-the-move intervention. You know, and this is where it, like, starts to get
explicit. You know, they’re like, hey, whoa, hey, uh, you’re using magic? That’s
not—
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: That’s not good.
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: That’s not good.
Kristin: Willow says, “If I wasn’t doing magic, you’d be dead,” which I was like,
ooh, that’s a loaded sentence. Because maybe the doctors would have saved her, is
one read. But the other read is if she didn’t use magic at all, Buffy literally would
still be dead. So.
Jenny: Yeah, and Buffy would be like, [sings] “Ahh! I’m in heaven!”
Kristin: [sim] “I’m in heaven! With my mother, having a blast!”
Jenny: [sim] [singing] “Never had to make a musical episode, ahh!”
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: [singing] “Ahh, I’m in heaven!”
Kristin: But yeah. And they don’t—I mean, to note it, clearly. At this point, when
they’re talking to Willow about, like, their concern over her using magic and, like,
[laughs] her—why does your hair look like that? What are you wear—what is
happening? They don’t know yet that Tara is dead.
Jenny: Oh yeah.


Kristin: They are about to find out, but they don’t know yet.
Jenny: Willow puppet-masters the steering wheel to cut through the little patch of
desert. And they stop the car, she gets out, she strides out into the—she does a lot
of striding in this episode.
Kristin: I’m telling you. She’s Anne Lister’ing all over this bitch. [laughs]
Jenny: Mm. Striding out into the street. Here comes a bus. The driver obviously
can’t control it, so I’m guessing, like, Willow is standing in the road in front of the
bus, making it so that the bus driver, like, can’t stop. He’s like, ahhhh! She’s doing
both things. And then, finally, the bus does stop, like, inches away from her. Door
opens and she’s like, “Get out.” [both laugh] And—
Kristin: I mean, she likes a little bit of the drama. Because, really, she just has to
stop the bus.
Jenny: [sim] Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: She didn’t need to make the bus go fast first. [laughs]
Jenny: No. No, no, no. Warren very obediently exits the bus. And then she
smushes his little robot neck and his eyeball pops out and rolls around on the
ground. Uh-oh!
Kristin: Yeah, and she’s pissed. And she should be, because I’m sorry, as powerful
as we know Dark Willow is, like—she’s like, “You tricked me.” And I just feel like the
at-home audience is like, but really? Like, I don’t feel like Dark Willow could have
been tricked by a robot.
Jenny: She could feel his essence!
Kristin: So what—
Jenny: Rack put some of his essence in the robot.
Kristin: I guess, but I just—mm.
Jenny: Listen! Listen!


Kristin: I like it. I like it. I am here for it, I’m just saying that, like, I believe that
Willow’s power is so big that if we were not here for the fun of watching Warren
Robot’s eye pop out, probably she would have known this was a fucking robot.
Jenny: No, no, no, no, no.
Kristin: Okay.
Jenny: I think we also needed—not just to see the fun eye pop, but we needed to
see that she is extremely serious and in a—you know, she’s not—she has no
hesitation.
Kristin: Ah, yes.
Jenny: She’s just like, I’m going to kill Warren.
Kristin: Robot—
Jenny: And everything that looks like him until I get to the real thing.
Kristin: Robot Warren is the red shirt for non…robot Warren.
Jenny: Mmm!
Kristin: A robot shirt, if you will.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah. And—so Buffy and Xander are like, what next? And Willow’s
like, “We find Warren and we kill him.” And they’re like, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa!
Whoa, listen. We understand that you’re, like, feeling—you know—upset because he
shot Buffy, but look, she’s fine. And she’s like, “Listen. The fuck. To me.”
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: Because he also shot Tara. And Xander kind of, like, coarsely says, “She’s
dead?” I don’t know why it feels, like, just so out of—like, just so—
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: Not the way people speak to each other.
Kristin: It feels believable to me in this moment, now that you say that. Because
do you remember when—so Jenny and I had a cat named Trey a million years ago.


And Trey died. He lived a long life. He lived 15 years, and whatever. But do you
remember when our friend called and was like, “How’s Trey?” and I literally was
like, “He’s dead.” Like, I—I, like, didn’t mean [Jenny snorts] to deliver the
information like that, [laughs] but it was just a lot. And like—do you remember
that?
Jenny: Yeah, you traumatized our friend. [laughs]
Kristin: [laughing] I did. I did. He was so upset. But like, I think it’s just—the
reason that I believe it from Xander is ‘cause, like, in that moment, I didn’t mean to
be coarse. I just, like, didn’t know how to convey information in a way that would
make any sense. So I’m here for it. I love…also, rest in peace, Trey. You were a
wonderful cat. [laughs]
Jenny: A good boy.
Kristin: Good boy. So—
Jenny: Number one cat.
Kristin: [laughs] So…I feel like I just wanna note that this is also where Willow
gets—I mean, she’s been a bit robotic herself. But like, in this exchange, like, she
says, “She’s dead. Now he’s dead too.” And they’re like, “Why didn’t you say
anything?” And she literally goes, “I’m busy.” [both laugh] Okay!
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Okay. Alright.
Jenny: Okay. Okay.
Kristin: Okay. Yeah, she’s busy.
Jenny: And Xander’s like, hey, hey, hey. You said it yourself. Magic’s too strong,
there’s no coming back from it. And Willow’s like, “I’m not coming back, bitches.”
Kristin: [takes deep breath] Yeah.
Jenny: Then she zaps them and skedaddles off to more of her witchery!


Kristin: She does not need to knock them over, by the way. They are simply
standing there watching her walk away. [Jenny laughs] And she, like, bloop!
[laughs] Like, for no reason. Which I also enjoy.
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: But—
Jenny: Yeah, it’s good. But uh-oh, uh-oh. Put the brakes on your having a good
time. Because we’re back—
Kristin: [sim] Wait, wait, wait. Before—
Jenny: Oh? Oh?
Kristin: Before we go up to this horrible scene upstairs in the Summers house, I
just wanna say that, like, in the exchange that Buffy and Xander and Willow are
having. This first—’cause they’re gonna hit this point a lot. Buffy is like, “If you do
this, you let Warren destroy you too.” And I feel like it’s really important, because
there’s a lot of conversation—and I know we’ll go deeper into it once we get to it.
But, like, there’s a lot of conversation about what’s okay to do and what’s not okay
to do. But it’s really not so much Warren that anyone is concerned about. The
whole time, it’s just Willow. It’s just that they know that reality is, if Willow acts in
this moment, she will need to carry that forever. And that—and I just wanna point
it out, ‘cause it’s the first time it’s said and it’ll be said again.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: But I think it’s—it’s valid, you know? Like, that is valid. I am Team fucking
Dawn. Fucking get rid of this motherfucker. Sorry.
Jenny: Yeah. He sucks.
Kristin: Anyway, speaking of Team Dawn. Go ahead, you can take us into the
fucking belly of the beast.
Jenny: Oh! It’s simply terrible, Kristin. Because Buffy and Xander come home to a
darkened Summers house and they find Dawn, alone, in the dark, sitting on the
floor, with Tara. She’s been there for hours. And I meant to say earlier, when she
first finds Tara, she sees Tara and then the screen fades to white.
Kristin: [sim] Fades to white.


Jenny: And I’m—I don’t think that we have ever seen that before? In this show? I
could be wrong. But—I know you’re all typing your emails right now. [laughs]
Telling me exactly how wrong I am.
Kristin: [sim] Yeah, I’m doubtful. I think we may have got—but also, there was
just a massive fade to white in the Angel universe. So I’m not sure if I’m conflating
the two. But—
Jenny: Right, right.
Kristin: Yeah, but it is—it is very important to point out. And she says, “I didn’t
wanna leave her alone.”
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: And Buffy—
Jenny: No thank you.
Kristin: Buffy, like—also, this is really, like, not an appropriate moment to say so,
but Buffy’s hair looks really good in this episode. [laughs]
Jenny: What the fuck? [laughs]
Kristin: Sorry! [laughs] And she—but she’s, like, really doing a good job of dealing
with the trauma of this moment, I think. You know, she goes over to Dawn, she’s
holding Dawn. And she’s saying very practical—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Like, this is exactly what I would do—what I would hope that I would do in
this scenario, which is like, give her—give Dawn a practical thing that she has to do.
She has to get up and go downstairs. That is the first thing that needs to happen.
There are many other things that will need to happen, but the first thing is, like,
you need to stand up and we need to get you out of this room. And Dawn is just
like, “I don’t understand.” And Buffy is like, “Yeah, me the fuck either.”
Jenny: Dude.
Kristin: And then they both look at Marti Noxon and they’re like, why are you doing
this to us? [laughs]


Jenny: Ma’am, why?
Kristin: Ma’am. Ma’am, please.
Jenny: Simply why?
Kristin: Ma’am, stop.
[AD BREAK]
Jenny: Well. The paramedics have arrived. Interesting how, I don’t know, there
aren’t, like, a bunch of police officers? And, like—
Kristin: They specifically—
Jenny: Oh, they do say that they’re coming back tomorrow with their tape.
Kristin: Yeah, and it’s like, they put that there ‘cause they knew. They were like,
well, there would be cops here, right? This is a full murder scene. So they—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: They sort of, like, shoo that away in that little line, but.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Yeah. A body bag. And like, it’s rough to see in general, of course. But like,
it feels like it was just a couple days ago when there was a body bag leaving that
house and it was Joyce. And since we went five seasons without ever seeing a body
bag leave the Summers home, it is very overwhelming to me, at least, that we
have seen now two in such, what feels like, close proximity to each other.
Jenny: Yeah. Yeah.
Kristin: So. Now we have—the Scooby gang is just getting smaller and smaller.
[laughs] We’re down to Xander, Dawn and Buffy in the living room here.
Jenny: Yeah, and Dawn—[groans] Dawn’s like, “I’d kill Warren myself if I could.”
And Xander’s like, [high pitched] “Mm, that’s actually a pretty good idea. I’m kinda
starting to see your point.”


Kristin: Right? Out of the mouths of babes. And Buffy’s like, no, no, no. And
I—like, I have a couple things that I wanna say about this exchange. But the first
one is, like, let’s talk about the title of this episode. Right? ‘Cause the question is,
what makes a per—and that’s a question that, like, Dawn and Xander are—
Jenny: [laughs] Finish the question! [both laugh] You’re like, “the question is, what
makes a per—and the whole thing with the—” [both laugh]
Kristin: Well, just like—
Jenny: Ma’am?
Kristin: What makes it okay to kill all these vampires—what makes a vampire a
villain and not Warren? What—what—you know what I mean? Like, the lines of
these things are really blurry when we start to really look at them closely. Because
Xander is right that Warren is worse than most of the vampires that Buffy has
killed. By a landslide.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: By a landslide. And her reasoning, of course, is that, like—I mean, also,
fucking note to Buffy. She did try to literally murder her girlfriend, Faith, with a
knife in her stomach, and Faith is a human being. So—
Jenny: Well, that was okay because Faith poisoned her boyfriend.
Kristin: [laughs] But like, you know, this show—
Jenny: That’s a part of the rules.
Kristin: [laughs] This show, it just—it grapples with humanity and what—is there a
bad and a good side of humanity? And characters like Angel and Angelus, you
know, characters like Faith, char—there are plenty of characters who, like, really
blur the lines for us and ask us to really consider, like, what restoration might look
like, what forgiveness might look like, what growth might look like. But I was
thinking about the conversation that Alba had with Jess Clark for Dead Things,
where Jess was like, yeah, so, the reason that—like, educating the dudes in the Trio
about, you know, consent and all these things would not have any impact on
Warren whatsoever. But Jonathan and Andrew might be the ones to step in and
intervene. And it just really, like—just, like, rang a couple of bells in my head. And I
feel like those are the bells that are ringing for me here. Which is like, I think
Warren is irredeemable. He’s not—he is an irredeemable character. And so, where


do we—and I’m really just asking this. I certainly don’t think that what I’m saying is
correct. But where do we draw the line around what is evil and what is good? And
what can—what has the capacity to grow and change, and what will just continue to
cause harm? I’m certainly not advocating for murder, okay? Just making it clear.
Jenny: [high pitched] Mmm.
Kristin: Don’t think we should kill anybody.
Jenny: [high pitched] Mmm?
Kristin: But I do think that in the context of this show, that’s what’s being asked.
And I don’t have the answer. I just feel like, yeah, Dawn, I agree. [laughing] Kill
this fucker.
Jenny: Yeah, I think this conversation gets more confusing to me in the next
episode.
Kristin: Mmm. Mmhmm.
Jenny: About which I, obviously, can’t say anything right now. But, um…
Kristin: Yeah, so—and I—yeah, we’re gonna—obviously, we’ll talk about all of this
more as we go through the—
Jenny: It ain’t over!
Kristin: It ain’t. There are in fact two to go. [laughs] So another exchange, [Jenny
laughs] that I just wanna point out is when Buffy’s telling Xander, “the human
world,” right? In an answer to what we were just discussing. “The human world has
its own rules for dealing with people like him.” Xander astutely says, “We all know
how well those rules work.” Which I think is a nice observation in the fact that the
systems of justice—if—like, hard quotes around that—in this country are really
fucked.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: And in one way, of many. There are many ways that the prison industrial
complex and the fucking courts—
Jenny: The American judicial system, yeah.


Kristin: American judicial system, all of that shit is, like, just completely inside-out.
One of which is, you know, Warren is a fucking white dude, strolling about
Sunnydale, doing whatever the fuck he wants. And we’ve had—
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Plenty of conversations about this and I’m sure we’ll have plenty more. But
if Warren was a Black man or a man of color, this would likely not go this way at
all. So we haven’t played it in a minute. Why don’t we fucking hit that White
Supremacy jingle?
[WHITE SUPREMACY jingle plays]
You know what that sounds like to me? (What?)
White supremacy! (Oh no)
Woven in not too subtly (Ugh)
White supremacy! (Uh-uh)
Open your eyes and that's where you'll find it
Crush that (squash that)
White supremacy!
Jenny: Okay. So…Buffy makes a point that I think is kind of a good grounding rule
for the universe.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: For the Buffyverse, I should say. She says, “We can’t control the universe.
If we were supposed to—”
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: “Then the magic wouldn’t change Willow the way it does.”
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah.
Jenny: So that’s interesting. Now, I’ve seen Tara do a bunch of magic and…she’s
fine.
Kristin: Well, I think—but that’s I think Buffy’s exact—
Jenny: It’s slippy.


Kristin: Well, but I think that’s Buffy’s point, is like, Tara has really only done
magic that kind of are allegedly within the bounds of what—
Jenny: Mm.
Kristin: She should be controlling and helping and what have you, you know? And
like—
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: Willow is—is…crossed a line, of some kind. And I think Buffy’s saying,
like—
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: We can visually see that line. Here. [Jenny laughs] It came in a box with
some plastic gloves. And there was, like—
Jenny: Yep.
Kristin: Black water running out down the sink. [laughs]
Jenny: Yep. Yep. We’ve all seen it. So…they’re thinking about, like, oh, where
would Willow be now? We gotta find her, la-la-la.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: But also, we have Dawn and she shouldn’t be alone. So, we don’t wanna
leave her alone at the house. Dawn wants really bad to go with Buffy and Xander.
But they’re like, no-no-no-no-no. So she’s like, “Fine. I wanna go to Spike’s.”
And…Buffy’s like, “Okay.” [Kristin sighs] And then Xander is like, “What the?!”
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: And Buffy’s like, “Can it!” And you know, they have a little convo where
he’s like, “After—you know, after what he did to you.” And she’s like, “He won’t hurt
Dawn. He can’t. And he wouldn’t.”
Kristin: Yeah, and if you haven’t listened to the conversation that Alba and I had
with Jess Clark—to bring him up a second time in this episode—on Seeing Red, you
should. ‘Cause this is kind of what we were talking about. This—Buffy drawing her
own boundaries and that, like—what Buffy is advocating for is that she knows that


Spike has done something violent and horrific to her. And she has, I’m sure,
parameters on what she would and would not allow, with respect to Spike. But this
is something that she is saying, as the survivor of this experience, this is something
I’m allowing. And Xander? I’m sorry, bud, but you do not get to draw those lines.
Those are mine to draw.
Jenny: No, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no.
Kristin: So a lot more on that in the conversation that we have for Seeing Red.
But—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: The one other thing—and this is so tiny, that maybe it’s not even worth
pointing out. But Xander has this line in this scene and it’s just…he says, “I’ve just
had blood on my hands all day from people I love.” And when I heard it today, I
was just like, that’s such an interesting choice of how to write that line. Because the
phrase “I have blood on my hands.” Like, if you take out the back half—
Jenny: Right.
Kristin: Has a very distinct colloquial meaning. Is colloquial the word that I want?
But it means, like, you are guilty too. And so I don’t know that it’s intentional. I
don’t—I’m not gonna, like, have a big deep conversation about it. But it just really,
like, kinda hit me and I was like, I wonder if this—’cause I’ve been—we’ve been
sort of playing around with some of the connections between Spike and the Trio
and Xander since the start of the season. So I just thought, well, that’s an
interesting choice.
Jenny: It is interesting.
Kristin: Right?
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: I love when I say something that, like, I can tell Jenny is really actually
intrigued by. It’s my favorite thing. [laughs]
Jenny: I—[snorts]
Kristin: [sim] I’m so proud of myself right now. [laughs]


Jenny: I personally don’t think that it is intentional.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: But I do think it’s interesting.
Kristin: Yeah. Yeah. Alright.
Jenny: Alright.
Kristin: Shall we go to Stevenson Hall?
Jenny: I think we have to. Have you noticed…this beautiful rug in Tara’s room?
Kristin: Yo. Tara—listen. Tara—we talked to Amber Benson and she was like, “I
think that if Tara was an adult now, she would be, like, an LGBTQ+ counselor and
she would have a B&B.” She would have a fucking B&B and let me tell you who
would book a room in that B&B, it would be me, because she knows how to
decorate a place. Her room is great. [both laugh]
Jenny: B&B and me.
Kristin: [laughs] But yeah, Tara’s dorm room. Aww.
Jenny: I mean. Yeah, so you know that thing where your lover has recently been
slain—
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: And you take your little shirt that is besplattered with her blood—
Kristin: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Jenny: And you do a little spell that makes the blood turn into a map so that you
can locate her killer in the woods nearby?
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: I mean, I’m just—I’m always seeing this trope pop up in genre shows.
[both laugh]
Kristin: Actually, it’s really repetitive, yeah. The blood map—


Jenny: Everyone’s always making a blood map!
Kristin: The blood map. Well, it’s interesting, actually. I mean, you’re being funny.
But I did note that—so this blood map happens on the—it’s so convenient that the
shirt was white. You can clearly see the map. It’s very, very—you can see the little
blood pine trees and everything. [both laugh] Get it all. But when the map appears,
there’s also a tiny light that is, like, signifying Warren—like, that she could track
Warren with this light. And I just thought it was cool, because we’ve seen,
essentially, these little Tinkerbell lights at least a couple times before. And one was
just this season in Bargaining Part Two, where Tara sent a little Tinkerbell light to
guide Willow. So—
Jenny: Oh, yeah!
Kristin: I just kinda got—I just—listen. I just got chills saying it out loud, ‘cause I
was just like, ugh. Like. And then, before there even, I think, was a Tara, in Fear
Itself, Willow called on, like, Aradia, the goddess of the lost, to guide her in the frat
house. And it didn’t go so well, but this was how—
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: Aradia guided her. And I think it was Aradia as well that Tara—like, I think
that was the same Tinkerbell in Fear Itself and in Bargaining Part Two.
Jenny: [laughs quietly, whispers] It was the same…
Kristin: So anyway. I just—
Jenny: It was the same Tinkerbell.
Kristin: [laughing] The same…anyway. Again, just like to give you all things to
chew upon. Because I love when I say, like, one sentence. I’m like, “I wonder.” And
then, like, there’s a dissertation that comes back and it’s fascinating.
Jenny: Yeah!
Kristin: So. Off to Spike’s we go.
Jenny: [sings triumphant tune] Oh my gosh. Knock-knock-knock-knock-knock.
Actually, this is a great example of the still existent non-boundaries. [laughs]


Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: Buffy just busts up into this crypt—
Kristin: Poor Clem.
Jenny: Without—with nary a knock. Scaring the crap outta Clem! And making him
spill all his snacks. But he is immediately hospitable, even still. And is like, “Can I
offer you some lemonade that I’m about to mix up?”
Kristin: He says Country Time, Jenny. Do not call it just lemonade.
Jenny: Well—
Kristin: He says Country Time.
Jenny: Well, yeah. I wanted to save invoking the name of Country Time specifically
until I recount to you—
Kristin: Okay.
Jenny: That Clem’s culinary spread [Kristin laughs] right now: Bugles, liverwurst,
Country Time. BLC, if you will.
Kristin: Ah, yes. I’m here for honestly everything but the liverwurst. I don’t
really…it’s not my jam.
Jenny: Simply why? [laughs]
Kristin: Yeah. He’s so—I mean, you all know that we love Clem and we loved
Clem. And this is more of the reason why. He’s just immediately—I also love Dawn
in this scene. I feel like Dawn is just, like, agreeing to do this thing ‘cause she’s
like, you know, I’m just not—I’m not gonna fight it ‘cause there’s too much going
on. But he’s like, “Do you wanna play parcheesi? I’ve been meaning to watch The
Wedding Planner, we could go rent it. You can have the comfy chair.” And Dawn’s
little face—like, she’s just so appreciative of Clem’s kindness, even though she’s
like, I really don’t wanna play parcheesi or watch The Wedding Planner. But like,
you are just very sweet, sir.
Jenny: Dude. Yeah, there’s really something about The Wedding—the choice of The
Wedding Planner. [both laugh]


Kristin: Look, I don’t know if anyone cares about this, but he’s watching a movie
called Meet John Doe when they walk in. It’s a 1941 film, so. You can go watch
that—
Jenny: I was wondering.
Kristin: As part of your Buffy extension viewing. [laughs]
Jenny: Hmm.
Kristin: Oh, oh! You know what it’s time for, Jenny? Why don’t we go to
nondescript Africa? Can’t wait.
Jenny: [groans] Yeah—
Kristin: So—
Jenny: Well, you know it’s Africa because there is [Kristin sighs] a tree and the
moon. Like, a very specific-looking tree and the moon.
Kristin: [sim] And, like, a drum beat and later, a pan flute.
Jenny: Yep.
Kristin: I mean, they like, really just hit every—
Jenny: And there are tents.
Kristin: Yep.
Jenny: You know? And fires.
Kristin: And they’re speaking—so I just wanna say. Willow speaks Latin later. The
Latin word is fully there, on the—’cause I did some digging to find out what
language is being spoken. And I finally did find the answer, but it took me a long
fucking time. In the captions, the Latin word that she says is literally just there on
the screen. The language that is spoken in this scene is just, in brackets, “foreign
language.” So we already played the White Supremacy jingle. I’m sure you can
hear it in the back of your minds right now. But this is just—it’s fucked in a million
ways. I mean, here comes—could you get any more on the nose? I wrote in my
notes, god help me with this fucking white man, not asking permission as he walks
through Africa and a community of Black people to bust a door open and take what


he—I mean, it’s so ridiculously on the fucking nose that I can’t even with it. So no,
to all of that. And in case you’re wondering, the language that the guy is speaking
when he’s saying—by the way, what he says to Spike is, “You can’t go in there—”
He’s looking out for Spike, which makes it even worse. “You can’t go in there, it’s
very dangerous. Stop, you’ll die. Stop,” is what he’s saying to Spike. The language
he’s speaking is Luganda. It’s a Bantu language, most, I think, associated with the
Baganda people and the country of Uganda. So, you know, I’m just at least going to
put that on a map. And…and say that this is just so fucked up. I mean, after this,
he goes into this cave with this demon—I do really appreciate the demon design, on
the demon. [laughs] I like—I like this dude.
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kristin: But it’s just, like, oh my god, you guys.
Jenny: Also, Spike rode his motorcycle all the way to Africa? [Kristin laughs hard]
Damn, dude. [Kristin keeps laughing] Uh, I too—
Kristin: Ahh, that got me. I didn’t even think about it. I—whew.
Jenny: I love—I love the design of the blacklight demon.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: This demon is straight out of fucking Spencer Gifts.
Kristin: [laughing] It’s so good.
Jenny: You know what I’m saying?
Kristin: I do. And he’s just, like, not having it. Like, he—this demon, to Spike, is
essentially Rack to Warren. He’s like, “Okay. You fucking fucker.”
Jenny: Yeah. I—
Kristin: Although, actually, that’s not an apples to apples, ‘cause he is like, “You
were a fucking warrior. Like, you were a big deal, dude, and now you’re here.”
Jenny: [sim] “And now you’re not.” Okay. Can we just look at some language
really quick?
Kristin: Please.


Jenny: Okay, so I’ve prepared a little script. Again. Not because anybody
specifically reached out to say they loved when I made Kristin and Ira [Kristin
laughs] read a—you know, a cut scene. But because I love doing this, and because
I think the language is important. I want to highlight it and we’re gonna continue
talking about it, for the rest of the scene.
Kristin: Yeah, yeah.
Jenny: Okay?
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: So in this reading, Kristin will be reading for Blacklight Demon and I will be
reading for Spike.
Kristin: I want everyone to know, I had no preparation for this. I would have
worked on my Blacklight Demon voice. But—
Jenny: No, no, no, no, no. It’s not about the voice, it’s just about—
Kristin: Okay. [clears throat]
Jenny: You know. Okay.
Kristin: [deep, melodious voice] “You seek me, vampire?”
Jenny: [snorts] “Yeah, I seek you.”
Kristin: Do you not want me to do it? Or do you want me just to be Kristin? [Jenny
laughs] This bitch is so rude!
Jenny: No, no, it’s—
Kristin: I commit to the bit and then she laughs at me?!
Jenny: [sim] It’s—I love it! I love it, I love it. I’m just not gonna do an accent
because nobody wins when I do an English accent. [both laugh]
Kristin: Okay! So from the top, slightly more embarrassed Kristin will attempt to
Blacklight Demon.


Jenny: No, no, no, no, no. You’re doing great, you’re doing great.
Kristin: Do you want me to continue or start at the top?
Jenny: Start at the top. Let’s get a fresh…[Kristin laughs] let’s take another run at
it.
Kristin: Okay. [melodious voice] “You seek me, vampire?”
Jenny: “Yeah! I seek you.”
Kristin: “Something about a woman. The Slayer.”
Jenny: “Bitch thinks she’s better than me. Ever since I got this chip in my head,
things haven’t been right.”
Kristin: “Look what she’s reduced you to.”
Jenny: “It’s this bloody chip.”
Kristin: “You were a legendary dark warrior and you let yourself be castrated, and
you have the audacity to crawl in here and demand restoration?”
Jenny: “Bitch is gonna see a change.”
Kristin: Well, I’ve done that for you, so now go ahead and elaborate on your
feelings on this language, Jenny. Or you just wanna bookmark it for the future?
Jenny: Write this.
Kristin: Yes.
Jenny: In your Shanshu prophecies.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: We’re gonna have to come back and think about this a little bit more.
Kristin: Okay, do you think that I did an okay job?
Jenny: You did an amazing job.


Kristin: Thank you. Gonna fucking—
Jenny: You’re a natural talent.
Kristin: [sim] Take that clip and make it my ringtone. [laughs]
Jenny: It’s often been said—oh, boy. [laughs]
Kristin: Yeah, so Spike—Spike says he’s still a warrior. Which I—I also—that wasn’t
in our, um…beautifully performed scene, so I just wanna also note that, like, he
kind of, like, says to Blacklight Demon that even though he’s saying, like, “Oh, this
Slayer, what has she done to you? You used to be a warrior and now you’re asking
me for this thing.” He’s like, “Yeah, well, that doesn’t make me not a warrior. Like,
I’m still a warrior.”
Jenny: Mmhmm, mmhmm.
Kristin: And you know, Blacklight Demon is like, “Good luck!” And Spike is like,
okay, sure, but like, do your fucking best. And if I’m still living, I get what I came
here for.
Jenny: Mmhmm!
Kristin: Um…yeah. So why don’t we leave Spike in nondescript Africa and—
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Go to the Magic Box.
Jenny: Oh, boy! [laughs] Oh, boy! Xander is asking Anya, you know, oh my gosh,
what happened? La-la-la. And Anya’s like, “I don’t need to do a locator spell for you
fools.”
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: “I can feel Willow’s pulsing thirst for vengeance from afar!”
Kristin: Now that’s what I call sexy. [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah. And—nice. And Xander’s like, “Oh, is that left over? From your
vengeance demon time?” and she’s like, “Yeah, no, not left over. Dude.”


Kristin: Yeah. And I kinda—I like the way that this scene is written. ‘Cause there’s
very little dialogue that they need to communicate what’s happened. She says, “Not
left over.”
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: It’s very clear they both know what she’s talking about. He says, “When?”
and she’s like, “When the fuck do you think?” And they had to cut out the “the
fuck”—
Jenny: Mmhmm!
Kristin: But it’s there. [laughs]
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Xander, fucking—like, can this dude just get through 45 minutes of
television without being a douche nozzle? Because he’s like, “Oh, Willow’s all
wrathy. Why don’t you go to her? Isn’t that your gig?” Fucking suck an egg,
Xander!
Jenny: Suck an egg. I love the detail that Anya’s like, “Yeah, usually I would be
required—”
Kristin: Right.
Jenny: “To go, but she wants to do it herself.”
Kristin: Yeah. Buffy very evenly asks Anya, I think, “We don’t have much time.
Which side are you on? Because you know where she is.” And like,
she—she—there’s, like, of course a little bit of, like, “Be on our fucking side.” But I
feel like she delivers it—Sarah Michelle Gellar—in a way that I like. Because she’s
just like, “I’m asking you. You’re a vengeance demon now. I’ve just learned this
information. Are you with us or are you not?”
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: And Anya: “I’ll help. But I’m helping Willow.”
Jenny: Yeah!


Kristin: Yes! Can we play Anya’s motherfucking jingle? She’s deserved it for a
while.
Jenny: Yeah!
[ANYA jingle plays]
[cash register rings]
She spent one millennium, demonically vengeancin'
Speaks her mind and then some, you know
She's partial to the finer things
And down with double boyfriends, oh yeah
Exchanging cash for goods and also services
She'd love to hold the money for ya (she'll hold that cash)
Just keep the bunnies far from… Anya!
Kristin: Hoo, here comes Anne Lister! Here comes fucking—[laughs]
Jenny: Willow is parting the forest foliage for herself as she stalks Warren.
Kristin: Yeah, this is some good shit, okay?
Jenny: It is good!
Kristin: “Fucking run all night, Warren. I’ll still find—” thunk! An ax, to the back!
I…I love a lot about Dark Willow. But when this witch stands the fuck up, like a—I
don’t even know—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Like one of those old little—
Jenny: Woop!
Kristin: Bobble clowns that we used to punch in our bedrooms. You know what I’m
talking about? The little punching clowns?
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah. She’s like a friggin’ Weeble Wobble.
Kristin: [sim] Just wobbles right up, just woop! Yeah, just—with the ax in her
back. Yes!
Jenny: Yeah—


Kristin: “Ax is not gonna cut it.” [laughs]
Jenny: Oh, dear.
Kristin: She’s been with Buffy for awhile. She has learned how to quip.
Jenny: Yeah. So Warren runs off like a little piss baby.
Kristin: Truly.
Jenny: And then he sets off this, like, little boxy sort of evil Snitch, like you
mentioned.
Kristin: [laughs] Yeah. And she’s like—it explodes and she’s like, “Freeze.” And it,
like, turns into ice and she’s like, clink. [laughs] It’s good!
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: It’s good.
Jenny: She gets face to face with Warren and he’s all like, “hh—it was an accident.
It wasn’t personal.” And Willow’s like, “Well, this is.”
Kristin: I love that. I love that. I mean, we play—we can play the patriarchy jingle
47 times in here and we’re gonna, ‘cause you know what it sounds like. But the
idea of this fucking white dude, looking at her, saying “It wasn’t personal.” And her
being like, “Oh yeah? Okay. Well, that’s good on you. But this is.” That’s delicious. I
will take two. I will take a couple of those for dessert, thank you so much.
Jenny: How many goop cocoons will you take? [Kristin laughs] For dessert? ‘Cause
it’s goop cocoon time.
Kristin: If Willow could have rolled her eyes inside of that goop cocoon before she
used them to burn a hole in it, she would have. A goop cocoon.
Jenny: She! Melts! It! With! Her! Burning! Eyes!
Kristin: Good, it’s good. And then she says—I think it’s [sounding it out] irretite?
It’s Latin, I think, and it means something like “nets.” Ties him up—it ties Warren
up. And he starts, you know—he starts tough. “Well, you were asking for it.” She


literally, like, looks at him and goes, “I’m…asking for it?” Love the beat on that.
Love all of it. Love—
Jenny: Dude, yeah.
Kristin: This is great. This is just good. It’s good. And then Willow says, “She
wasn’t your first.” Like, she kind of, like, senses it. Like, I feel like she’s learning it
in the moment, what Warren has done to Katrina. And she says, “Reveal.” And I
would like to just play a small—I would like to give a little space for Katrina’s voice
here on what she says she should have done.
[Clip from episode plays]
Katrina: I should have strangled you in your sleep. Back when we shared a
bed. I should have done the world a favor.
Kristin: Yes. Katrina, we don’t put the onus of that on you at all. But also, we fully
agree. Sorry, I don’t mean to put words in your mouth, Jenny. I fully agree. [both
laugh] With this, from Katrina. Yes.
Jenny: Uhh, yeah. That woulda been cool.
Kristin: And like, some of the—when I talk about Warren as, like, this irredeemable
character or what have you. Like, there’s many moments that you can look at and
point to to, I think, underline this. And this, that’s about to happen, is another one,
right? ‘Cause he’s like, “I’m sorry, I’m sorry, I’m sorry.” And then, immediately,
snaps and looks at Katrina and is like, “Because you deserved it, bitch.” Like, his
inner fucking demon self is the true—
Jenny: [sim] Eeeeek!
Kristin: Like, that is this guy’s true self. And Willow reads him.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Willow reads him. “You liked it. You get off on this. You get off on having
the power over her. You’re—[laughs] you had a mad on,” she says, instead of—
Jenny: Ew.
Kristin: Hard on—


Jenny: Ew.
Kristin: For the Slayer. “She was your big O.”
Jenny: Ew.
Kristin: Ew, but also, appreciate this read. Like, it’s all about—it is all
about—War—it is all about power for Warren and the attachment that he brings to
power, masculinity, and sex. And in an incredibly damaging, horrific, very bad,
dangerous way. So I think Willow’s read is spot on.
Jenny: Well! Speaking of damaging. [Kristin laughs] Willow pulls out the bullet that
she removed from Buffy earlier. Oh, dear. And sets it to hover in front of Warren’s
chest. She rips his shirt open, handlessly, and is explaining the process, [babbles]
of what a bullet will do as it enters your body.
Kristin: Mmhmm.
Jenny: And she’s propelling it forward, very slowly. She stitches his mouth closed!
Kristin: Not before saying, “I’m talking.” [Jenny snorts] [laughs evilly] [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah, yeah, yeah. She’s talking.
Kristin: Yes, this is actually where she says, “One tiny piece of metal destroys
everything.”
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: “Took her light away. From me, from the world. And a waste like you gets
to live.” And this—like, we can say what we will about the things that happen right
after this. But I do think that the metaphor of Warren carelessly wagging about his
gun in the episode that precedes this, taking, like Willow says, a light from the
world, and getting to live. And the vengeance on him being that this same bullet
will move so slowly through him and he cannot speak while it happens, is a really
powerful thing. And a really important thing. Whether or not, like, Warren needs to
die or not die is kind of—like, to me—doesn’t even feel like the point of it. It’s—I
mean, I’ve given a lot of space to it, so I understand if you’re like, okay, but Kristin.
You just said 40 times that you’d be fine with him dying. Fine, come at me. But I
think, like, the real heart of it for me is this. This, like, I’m taking the thing that you
so carelessly used to destroy, with no consequences. And I am slowly putting it


back into you, so you can feel every fucking minute of it. Like, that is, to me, what
is the most powerful part about this episode.
Jenny: Yeah, I actually think the most powerful part of this episode is when [raises
voice] she rips all of the skin [Kristin laughs] from his body in one fell swoop!
Kristin: Uh, not before she says—
Jenny: Counterpoint!
Kristin: She’s like—he’s like, whimpering, before this. Like, he’s like, “I—you’re
right! I’m so bad! I’m so bad, I really need jail. And I know you’re in so much pain,
you must just be—” and she…[laughs] we’re gonna give her…the sound clip, right?
We’re gonna give her this? We should give her this.
Jenny: [high pitched] Yeah!
Kristin: What does she say? Willow, what do you have to say to this whimpering
piece of shit?
[Clip from episode plays]
Willow: Bored now.
[Warren’s scream is cut off by ripping sound]
Jenny: [gasps]
Kristin: Well!
Jenny: [singsong] Well! I’m gonna fucking puke! [laughs]
Kristin: Wow, uh…I guess—is it time for the Sexual—
Jenny: We said she does [Kristin laughs] have a flair for the dramatic. I love that
it’s not enough that she entirely flays him in one second. She also makes him
spontaneously combust. [both laugh]
Kristin: I mean, honestly, that seemed more like, a—
Jenny: She’s like, yup!


Kristin: [sim] A kindness than anything else. [laughs] You know, like—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: I’m not gonna leave this guy here with no skin on. But, um…
Jenny: And then. Kristin?
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: And then?
Kristin: Mmm.
Jenny: What does she say so chillingly? She says, “One down.” And then teleports
the fuck away.
Kristin: Yo, remember when the fucking Trio was in the arcade and they threw that
stupid little fucking smoke thing and they tried to disappear and it didn’t work? I
just, like—
Jenny: Yes.
Kristin: I want, like, a side by side cut of, like, then—
Jenny: Oh, yeah.
Kristin: At the end of the season, Willow being like, “Is this what you meant to
do?” Poof! [laughs]
Jenny: Yeah. Hell yeah.
Kristin: Also, I am such a sucker for this. There are two episodes left. The next
episode is called Two to Go, and she says “one down” to end this—like, to me, that
is the most—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: I could eat it for lunch. It’s just a delicious little fucking—yes. A victory.
[laughs]
Jenny: Oh, yeah.


Kristin: Yeah. Well. Here we are! [laughs]
Jenny: [laughing] What the fuck?!
Kristin: We’ve been really struggling with Sexual Tension Awards this end of this
season. And I think that there’s a lot of understanding for why. Jenny, I—
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: I mean, I don’t even think we need to play the jingle. ‘Cause here’s what I
think. There’s not—us giving you four things to vote betwixt is—would just be
forcing our hand. Because there’s not four nominees, at all. As a matter of fact, the
only thing that I found—apart from my own attraction to the EMT—[Jenny laughs]
the only thing that I found remotely sexy was when Anya was like, “I can feel her.”
Jenny: Ohh, my lantula!
Kristin: Do you have anything else? Do you have anything else?
Jenny: Great question. Great…question. [strained] Yeah, yeah. No. Yeah.
Kristin: [laughs] Okay. Is that a no?
Jenny: Mm, it’s a no. I got nothing.
Kristin: It’s a no, it’s a no. So, listen. It’s not that we mean to take away the
democratic functioning of these awards. However, we’ve got one nominee. And so
we’re just gonna give it to them, okay? Villains goes to Anya and the pulsating
vengeance of Dark Willow. [Jenny snorts and laughs] You said pulsating! I was just
using your words.
Jenny: I…think I said “pulsing.” There’s something even more…something about
“pulsating.” [both laugh]
Kristin: Well, there you have it. We can play—
Jenny: Incredible.
Kristin: We’ll play you the song here, so you can feel a little bit sexy while you
think about that.


Jenny: Woo!
Kristin: Pulsing and pulsating.
[SEXUAL TENSION AWARD jingle plays]
Sexual tension award!
Kristin: One down! How many to go? How many?
Jenny: Frigging two, actually.
Kristin: [chanting] Two to Go! Two to Go! [normal] Who the hell are you?
Jenny: What? Me? Well, I’m glad you asked, because I’m Jenny Owen Youngs. And
when I’m not making this podcast, I am often writing and recording songs. You can
find my music by searching my name on your favorite digital music platform. You
can give me a shout on Twitter @JennyOwenYoungs. And you can join me for
livestreams of music and more on Twitch! On a weekly basis. Over on my Twitch
channel.
Kristin: Do you ever—
Jenny: Also, hey!
Kristin: Do you ever answer questions about the podcast known as Buffering the
Vampire Slayer when you’re on your Twitch stream?
Jenny: I occasionally do. Why? Did I do a bad job?
Kristin: No! [laughs]
Jenny: Did I let something slip? Oh, oh, oh, okay!
Kristin: I was trying to help you promote your Twitch streams by allowing the
people—
Jenny: Yeah, sometimes I play Buffering songs. Sometimes I talk about the pod.
Sometimes I play other songs. Sometimes we just hang out and talk
about—somebody taught me the other day that fish are not fish. I can’t get more
specific than that. But “fish” is apparently a useless, defunct or unhelpful
classification—


Kristin: Hm. Wow.
Jenny: Of, dot-dot-dot, fish. So it’s a whole thing.
Kristin: Okay.
Jenny: You never know what you’re gonna learn or what’s gonna happen. [laughs]
Kristin: And you can’t—you can’t go back and watch ‘em again. Once they happen,
they’re gone forever?
Jenny: That’s right. They are not archived, which gives me some freedom to play
covers and do whatever I want.
Kristin: Yeah.
Jenny: ‘Cause if you play covers, you can’t have them living there forever.
Anyway. Come on down to Twitch. I’m usually there Mondays and Wednesdays
from 5 to 7 PM Eastern, although the schedule changes here and there.
Kristin: It’s like you have office hours.
Jenny: [sim] You can get the full schedule on my Twitch page. And I occasionally
have office hours where people can submit songs that they’re working on, in
advance—
Kristin: [gasps]
Jenny: And we can listen to them together on the stream.
Kristin: What?!
Jenny: And then I give my notes and everybody else in the chat gives their notes.
It’s really—we’ve only done it once so far, but it was really, really fun.
Kristin: This is so cool! You don’t talk about this enough, in our podcast. People are
gonna be clamoring for this shit now. This is great.
Jenny: I—yeah. I realized when I was updating my notes for this episode. I was
like, oh, wow, I haven’t really talked about this at all. But there are a lot of—there
are a lot of Buffering kids who come hang out there. And it would be cool if there


were more. And it’s—I mean, anybody can watch. You don’t even have to have a
Twitch account or a subscription—
Kristin: Awesome.
Jenny: To watch a stream. So, come on over. And also, so sorry for taking up so
much real estate here. But—I hate to be a bother, but I wanted to also let
everybody know that my incredibly gay band, L.A. Exes. We’ve just released our
debut album—
Kristin: [gasps]
Jenny: Get Some. It’s out everywhere, digitally. So please, check it out, listen to it,
put the friggin’ songs in your Instagram reels and your Tiktoks.
Kristin: Yeah!
Jenny: Share it with your friends. We—
Kristin: [sim] It’s like, [singing] “Skinny dipping, skinny dipping!”
Jenny: It is? And then what else?
Kristin: [singing] “Doin’ some skinny dipping!”
Jenny: Oh, yeah, that’s good, that’s good. Very lifelike. [laughs]
Kristin: What was your first—what was the first single called?
Jenny: Temporary Goodbye.
Kristin: Oh, and—yeah, [singing] “A temporary goodbye.” [sings tune quietly]
Jenny: Okay, so Kristin has not spent a lot of time listening to my beautiful songs.
Kristin: Well, I just haven’t listened to them recently, and I’m a goldfish. [Jenny
laughs] That’s the only issue.
Jenny: Yeah. Well, if you wanna know how they really go, [Kristin laughs] find us
on every digital platform and listen to our little songs all over the place. They’re
very fun and very—they’re pretty gay. So.


Kristin: My name is Kristin Russo. And I have not released an album with my gay
band. And I do sit in my living room and talk a bunch, but it’s not live and you can’t
watch it. It’s just me and my cats. So what you should check out, however, is the
work that I do with LGBTQ community. That’s cool! That’s also cool. You can find
out more about me and my work at my website, kristinnoeline.com. That’s
K-R-I-S-T-I-N N-O-E-L-I-N-E. I’m working on a book right now. It’s part of the
Quick and Easy Guide series from Oni Press. I’m really excited about it. It will be a
Quick and Easy Guide to Coming Out, something that is often neither quick nor
easy, but that’s the challenge. [both laugh] And also, as always, me and Joanna
Robinson, inside of the Buffering Patreon and also The Storm Patreon, do a podcast
calls Feels Like the First Time, where I watch movies that I’ve never seen before,
for the first time. By the time this airs, I think I will have seen all but one of our
Marvel trio. I’ve fallen in love with Captain America. We watched—[Jenny laughs]
we watched Captain America: The First Avenger just together as pals. And then we
began the trilogy of—this trilogy of movies is Captain America: Winter Soldier—hot,
hot, hot. Hot, hot, hot.
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: Captain America: Civil War, which—
Jenny: It’s a very Captain America-heavy trio from a—
Kristin: It’s two—it’s—
Jenny: Selection of, like, 20-something films.
Kristin: Well, it’s—[stammers] hold your horses over there. It’s two—
Jenny: Okay.
Kristin: It’s two Captain Americas. And then the third one that—when you hear
this, I’ll be watching tomorrow—is Thor: Ragnarok. And the reason—
Jenny: [scream-singing] Ragnarok!
Kristin: The reason that the trio was selected is because it was—the internet was
asked what the three gayest Marvel movies were.
Jenny: Ohh!


Kristin: And those three were the ones that were selected. And I have to say, so
far—
Jenny: Alright!
Kristin: So far, we’re having a gay old time.
Jenny: Alright!
Kristin: Yeah! So it’s fun. It’s a little Patreon podcast, and we watch the movies
together as one big Slack hangout. And it’s a joy, it’s a delight. So come and join
us. And I mean, who are we, while we’re at it?
Jenny: Ohh! Well, we’re Buffering the Vampire Slayer. We’re on Twitter, Facebook
and Instagram, @BufferingCast. You can drop us an email at
bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com.
Kristin: Yes, and you can, like I said, support our work on Patreon. Actually, a lot
of you have come over to the Patreon space during the Seeing Red week, which
just gave my heart—like, my heart grew three times, at least, its normal size. Just
‘cause it was nice—
Jenny: [sim] Oh. God, where are you gonna keep that thing? Jesus.
Kristin: [laughs] I know, I don’t know, I don’t know. I’m—I keep it on the shelf
when I’m not wearing it. But it just was really nice because, you know, a lot of
times the thing that makes the Patreon grow is the perks. There’s a lot of—there
are a lot of perks. You can get the songs, you can get hang outs with us, you get a
book club with me and all manner of things over there. But we didn’t offer anything
new last week. We just did a whole bunch of work, and so it just was, like, very,
very meaningful that a lot of you came over and were like, okay! You know what,
you’re doing it. [laughs] So we’re gonna—
Jenny: Aww!
Kristin: We’re gonna support you. So you know, if you’d like to support the work
that we’re doing here, you can do that on Patreon. All of these things can be found
on our website, bufferingthevampireslayer.com. Also, you heard it up in the intro,
but you’re hearing it again now. We brought back a design for you in the store. It is
Diana Kresge’s Bored Meow design. Of course we were gonna bring it back for you.
Jenny: Oh yeah. Oh yeah!


Kristin: It’s a kitten—
Jenny: For a limited time only!
Kristin: A Willow kitten saying “bored meow.”
Jenny: [sim] Doing some dark magic.
Kristin: Yeah, dark magic kitten. It is—it’s a great fucking shirt. We had it a long,
long time ago. We didn’t even talk about this in pod, but Willow has said “bored
now” once before. And it was Vampire Willow who said “bored now.”
Jenny: Mmhmm.
Kristin: That’s when we brought this design to the fore, and now it’s back because,
hey. Actual Willow is saying “bored now” now.
Jenny: Yeah.
Kristin: Bufferingthevampireslayer.com, just click on Shop. And, um, I think—I
think we did it.
Jenny: I can hear the clacking of Frank’s keyboard as he types a strongly-worded
email. [Kristin laughs] To bufferingthevampireslayer@gmail.com. “Too many cats
on merch. Where are dog?” [both laugh]
Kristin: Alright, Frank. We’ve received your dog mail.
Jenny: Yeah! Well. Dangit. Till next time…
Both: Awwwooooooooooooo!
Kristin: Bored now!
[Bess Rogers performing “Villains” off the album “Songs from Season Six” by
Buffering the Vampire Slayer]

